 CHAIRMAN’S
INTRODUCTION
OVERVIEW
I am delighted to present the Polypipe 
2015 Annual Report following another 
successful year for the business and all its 
stakeholders. We have delivered against 
all the expectations that were generated 
at the April 2014 IPO. Alan Thomson 
signed off as anticipated at the 2015 
AGM having chaired Polypipe during its 
prior ownership and transformation into 
a Public Company with his customary 
enthusiasm. The Board was therefore 
reconstituted in the way envisaged at the 
time of the IPO with myself as Chairman 
and Paul Dean as SID. We were pleased 
to be able to deliver an acquisition 
opportunity in Nuaire that perfectly fitted 
our strategic aspirations as well as being 
of an appropriate scale for this stage in 
the Group’s development. Cavendish 
Square Partners sold all of their residual 
shareholding (18% of the issued share 
capital following the IPO) and the Group 
entered the FTSE 250 Index on  
29 January 2016.
Co-incidental with all of the above, our 
performance continued to outpace the 
market and we invested heavily in our 
operations with the acquisitions of Nuaire 
and Surestop helping to reposition the 
Group towards its goal of designing and 
manufacturing more complex systems 
to meet the needs for sustainable 
construction.
RESULTS
Business performance throughout 
2015 has been very satisfactory with 
a 7.9% increase in revenues resulting 
from a good level of organic volume 
growth complemented by acquisitions. 
Underlying operating profit margins 
improved further to a record 15.4%. 
Underlying earnings per share increased 
by 20.9% to 19.47p and were supported 
by continued strong cash generation.
DIVIDEND
Despite significant investment in 
acquisitions this year we have maintained 
our dividend policy and I am pleased to 
recommend a final dividend of 5.5p per 
share making a total of 7.8p for the year 
ended 31 December 2015. 
STRATEGY
During 2015 the key objectives of the 
Board were:
 Capitalising upon opportunities to 
expand the business by selected 
acquisitions
 Growing our sales in the Middle East 
region
 Developing new products and 
engineered systems to serve the 
needs of our customers
 Implementing an effective succession 
plan in view of the impending 
retirement of our CFO
In addition to our ongoing initiatives, 
in 2016 our attention will be focussed 
upon:
 Developing our ventilation business 
while realising synergies in our 
integration of Nuaire into the Group
 Commencing manufacturing in the 
Middle East region
 Prioritising selected development and 
acquisition opportunities, whilst the 
Group rapidly reduces leverage 
 Launching a LTIP for senior managers 
to align their interests with those of 
shareholders
PEOPLE
Much of the success of the Company 
during 2015 should be attributed to 
the outstanding effort and commitment 
of our employees. I was particularly 
impressed with the execution of the 
Nuaire and Surestop acquisitions and 
how well the integration of these 
businesses into the Polypipe Group 
is being managed. I have also been 
able to spend time visiting sites and 
meeting employees including our 
Nuaire production facility in Caerphilly 
and our new training centre in Dubai. I 
believe that Polypipe will provide all our 
employees with the opportunities for an 
exciting career and that development of 
our people will support business growth 
for the long-term. 
During November 2015, we announced 
the planned retirement of Peter Shepherd 
as Chief Financial Officer following 
10 years service with the Group and 
the appointment of Martin Payne as 
his successor. Peter made an exceptional 
contribution to the Group and we wish 
him a long and happy retirement.
Previously the Group Finance Director at 
Norcros plc, Martin brings considerable 
industry experience to the role of Chief 
Financial Officer. The Board unanimously 
recommends his election as a director 
following his appointment in succession 
to Peter.
SUMMARY
In my first year as Chairman of the 
Board following the last Annual General 
Meeting, my impression is that the Group 
has a committed senior management 
team, a clear strategy and strong financial 
performance. Looking ahead, the Group 
is well positioned to take advantage of 
the forecast continuing recovery in its 
main UK market and the structural and 
legislative drivers for its products. Our 
recent acquisitions bolster our technical 
capability and I believe that in 2016 we 
will deliver further growth as a result of 
our investment in the areas of ventilation 
and water management solutions. I look 
forward to sharing our achievements in 
my report next year.
Ron Marsh
Chairman
Annual Report and Accounts
for the year ended 31 December 2015
Polypipe Group plc
04
