 Going from strength 
to strength
In 2015 Playtech once again achieved 
an outstanding operational and financial 
performance, with reported revenues up 
38% and 26% on an underlying basis. 
Our Gaming division continues to go  
from strength-to-strength, founded on 
our pioneering omni-channel offering, our 
market leading content and the investment 
we make every year into R&D to ensure that 
we not only maintain but also extend our 
lead against the competition. The second 
half of 2015 saw several new licensee wins, 
including Sun Bingo, as well as product 
launches, including the iconic Top Gun  
slot and Live Prestige Roulette. Our pipeline 
of new licensees, driven by regulated and 
soon-to-be-regulated markets, is strong  
and we expect significant wins in 2016.
During the year we created our Financials 
division with the acquisition of TradeFX 
which was announced in April, since 
renamed Markets Limited. Although it was 
disappointing not to be able to complete 
the subsequently announced acquisitions 
of Plus500 and Ava Trade, Markets Limited 
remains an important acquisition for Playtech, 
taking us into a high-growth industry 
with regulated revenues, leveraging our 
technology infrastructure and existing 
expertise in CRM and marketing. 
Playtech is proud of its track record of 
exceptional growth. Looking forward we  
see many opportunities to extend this 
record, both organically and through M&A, 
and have great confidence of continued 
success in 2016 and beyond.
Alan Jackson
Chairman
25 February 2016
We have a very strong balance sheet 
with significant cash balances. Playtech 
has always been highly disciplined when 
acquiring businesses and capabilities to 
ensure that they meet stringent criteria.  
We are currently in live discussions on a 
number of potential acquisitions in the 
Gaming division. 
We also remain committed to returning 
capital to shareholders, as evidenced by  
the strong compound growth in our regular 
dividends and the special dividend paid 
following the receipt of proceeds from the 
sale of Playtech’s stake in William Hill Online. 
Should suitable acquisition opportunities 
not be available, consideration will be given 
to returning cash to shareholders as we look 
to maintain an efficient capital structure.
I was particularly pleased to be able to 
strengthen the Board during the year with 
the appointments of Paul Hewitt and John 
Jackson. Their wealth of experience across 
many complementary industries will prove 
invaluable to Playtech’s growth over the 
coming years. 
Finally, I would like to thank each and 
every one of our 5,000 employees who 
make Playtech the great success story 
that it continues to be. I would also like to 
thank our shareholders for their continued 
support, particularly in supporting our equity 
fundraising in June. Playtech is focused 
on creating value for shareholders and I 
am delighted to be able to announce an 
increase of 8% for this year’s total dividend.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Whilst 2015 was an incredibly busy year for 
Playtech, our operational performance was 
stronger than ever, delivering reported revenues 
up 38% and up 26% on an underlying basis.  
We have many opportunities for further growth, 
both organically and through M&A, and have 
confidence in strong growth in 2016 and beyond
Alan Jackson
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
