 “We have achieved all the objectives
set for the business in the past year.”
Belhaven Report FRONT  1/6/05  9:30 AM  Page 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OVERVIEW
Belhaven has achieved all the objectives set for the business in the
past year and has further strengthened its position as an important
strategic force in the Scottish licensed trade.
In the past two years we have achieved a significant rate of
growth. Turnover has increased by 44.9 per cent, profit before
tax by 60.9 per cent and the pub estate has been expanded from
189 to 270 units. Moreover, our three key brands Belhaven Best,
Tennent’s Lager and Stella Artois (the latter two being purchased
from InBev) have spearheaded considerable gains in market share
of the Scottish licensed trade for our drinks business.
STRATEGY
Belhaven is committed to the classic structure of an integrated
regional brewer. We continue to operate and develop our
activities in brewing, drinks distribution, pub retailing and
tenanted estate management.
We endeavour to create a business which is a fusion of attractive
pubs and popular beers, managed by people who have the talent,
commitment, passion and pride to achieve our corporate goals.
We aim to achieve a return of 13 per cent on our pub assets,
after taking account of the central cost of managing the portfolio.
This compares favourably to our current cost of capital.
In our beer and brands activities we endeavour to take a lead
position in the ale market in Scotland and Belhaven Best has
strengthened its position in the past year as Scotland’s most
popular draught ale in the on trade market. Apart from our
own brands, the beer products which underpin our portfolio,
Tennent’s Lager and Stella Artois, are sourced from InBev
with whom we have had a key strategic relationship for more
than twenty-five years.
One of the benefits of growing our pub estate is that Belhaven
strengthens its position as a route to market for beers, soft drinks,
wines and spirits and our drinks distribution business benefits as a
result of that in terms of both volume and purchasing clout. Our
drinks business has approximately 2,000 free trade customers in
Scotland which gives us an excellent insight into the market place
and this knowledge helps our pubs business identify potential 
acquisitions to add to our own estate. So, each division feeds
off the other.
REVIEW OF TRADING IN 2004/2005
Market conditions during the year have not been particularly
favourable, with weather conditions in the summer not matching
the heatwaves of 2003 and with Christmas falling on a Saturday
which disrupted weekend trading patterns. Consumer spending in
2005 has been unpredictable in the licensed trade, mirroring the
broader retail picture in Scotland.
Despite this, both Belhaven Pubs and Belhaven Drinks performed
excellently with sales and profits exceeding internal expectations
and comfortably ahead of previous year.
Tables 1 to 4 give a succinct overview of the key statistics for the
year to which I will now add some relevant comments about each
trading arm of the Group’s business. Please note that, for reporting
purposes, our pub retailing and tenanted estate activities are
aggregated to present the results of Belhaven Pubs and our beers
and brands and drinks distribution activities are aggregated to
present the results of Belhaven Drinks.
PUB RETAILING
Profits from retail increased by an admirable 30.3 per cent, driven
by the expansion of the pub estate and our ability to maintain
like-for-like turnover despite additional competition from new licences
and the aggressive pricing policies of some of our competitors.
Margins were also extremely well protected. Overall, our rate of
conversion of turnover:operating profit was 25.3 per cent, which
was a superb performance given the 16 per cent hike in the
minimum wage in the past two years, significantly higher energy
costs and rises in the cost of providing satellite television and in
music copyright and reproduction charges. Total labour costs only
edged ahead by 0.2 per cent of turnover, thanks to careful and
attentive management, and we maintained our gross margins on
food and bar sales. One of the benefits of the expansion of our
pub estate over the past few years is the achievement of enhanced
purchasing and marketing benefits from suppliers.
A new management development programme was created to
identify and cultivate potential retail managers as well as to 
Stuart Ross
Chief Executive CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
8 The Belhaven Group plc
provide continuing personal development for existing managers.
Scottish Vocational Qualification (SVQ) training has been increased
and Belhaven is now one of the largest operators of
such courses in Scotland.
One of the peculiarities of pub retailing is the relatively fast
turnover of part-time staff so we require to tailor our training,
coaching and induction programmes accordingly. Bonus incentive
schemes for pub management are designed to reward both
performance and loyalty.
TENANTED ESTATE
Our tenanted estate delivered a profit increase of 34.4 per cent
which was one of the principal drivers of our success last year.
We expanded the tenanted estate by 30 units during the course of
the year and we provided the bulk of the finance for the upgrading
of a further 23 houses. These are the key factors which
underpinned a sparkling set of figures. Like-for-like sales increased
by 1.4 per cent and like-for-like profits increased by 5.7 per cent.
We repeated the decision taken in 2003 to absorb part of the
inflationary list price increases on the draught lagers which we offer
to our tenants, and we will do so again in 2005. We are very aware
that our tenants need to compete against other on-premise
businesses and the take home trade where there is minimal year-
on-year uplift on the price of leading beer brands. This policy has
undoubtedly helped our tenants and has also helped us grow
overall beer volumes. Beer sales through the tenanted estate
increased by 27.9 per cent in total.
Recruitment of licensees with the talent and ambition to maximise
the potential of our pubs remains our top priority and last year we
increased our resources and our marketing and search activities to
achieve this objective. We will be further investing into the
recruitment function in the current financial year.
PUB ACQUISITION PROGRAMME
Planning and licensing authorities are giving greater consideration
to over-provision and neighbourhood issues. As a result, it is
becoming increasingly difficult to identify unlicensed sites for
which conversion consent will be granted.
We see more opportunity to expand the tenanted estate than
the managed estate in 2005/2006, thus continuing the pattern
set last year.
From an operational point of view, it makes sense to switch some
of our smaller managed houses into the tenanted estate during the
course of this year, which will enable us to focus management time
and energy to maximum effect.
BEERS AND BRANDS
At our Dunbar brewery it was definitely a tale of two halves with
record levels of throughput in all our activities, brewing, bottling
and kegging in the first six months. However, due to a sharp
downturn in contract bottling volumes in the second six months,
overall activity was much reduced and profit was adversely
affected. We are in the process of negotiating a new three year
contract to package certain products for InBev which will have a
significant effect in redressing this decline.
Belhaven Best’s popularity continues to go from strength to
strength, with an increase in volume of 8.6 per cent last year. It is
now one of Scotland’s top ten alcoholic drinks in the pub trade and
it remains Scotland’s most popular draught ale in the on trade,
TABLE 1 53 weeks 52 weeks
Profit Summary to 3.4.05 to 28.3.04 Increase
£m £m %
Operating Profit - Belhaven Pubs 15.10 11.81 27.9
- Belhaven Drinks 8.58 7.94 8.1
Administration costs (3.22) (3.15)
Operating Profit 20.46 16.60 23.2
Interest (3.03) (2.37)
Profit before Tax 17.43 14.23 22.5
TABLE 2 Managed Tenanted Total
The Pub Estate Houses Estate Pubs
Numbers of Pubs
At beginning of April 2004 89 137 226
Additions in the year 17 30 47
Disposals in the year – (3) (3)
Transfers (5) 5 –
At end of March 2005 101 169 270
Value of Estate
As at March 2005 £78.63m £62.74m £141.37m
Value per pub
as at March 2005 £779k £371k £524k
“Both Belhaven Pubs and Belhaven Drinks 
performed admirably with sales and
profits comfortably ahead of previous years.”
Belhaven Report FRONT  1/6/05  9:27 AM  Page 8 having widened the gap with its nearest competitor. In November
2004 we reached the sales landmark of 100 million pints of Best
since the beer pioneered the UK nitrokeg sector in the early 90s.
Volumes have grown each year since then and we continue to
support our key brand with advertising, promotions and trade
marketing activity which highlight the quality and popularity
of the product.
Our brand strategy includes the use of local sponsorships which
add value and distribution to Best. We have recently renewed our
sponsorship deal with the Scottish Golf Union for a further five
years and we are committed to various activities at the Edinburgh
Festival Fringe this summer.
Belhaven Best also performed exceptionally well for us in the take
home trade with sales volumes up by 20.5 per cent, albeit from a
much smaller base than draught Best. Our overall take home
contribution was satisfactory, given the congestion of brands in this
sector and the difficulties which all small suppliers face in
improving margins on sales to national grocers whose dominance
of the market increases each year. Our range of Classic Choice
speciality beers has added welcome volume and attractive pricing.
Export sales held up very well in Europe but we suffered a small
decline in the States which was not unexpected given the strength
of the pound against the dollar.
DRINKS DISTRIBUTION
Trade was impressive throughout the year and total volumes
increased by 10.5 per cent in a market which declined by about
3 per cent.
The lifeblood of our drinks distribution division is new business and
we again comfortably exceeded the internal targets which were set.
Equally pleasing was the 7.1 per cent growth in net profit achieved
on sales to free trade customers, helped by close control of operating
costs at all our distribution centres.
We work hard to build close and durable business relationships with
our trade customers. We have a well spread business, supplying
over 2,000 customers and, aside from our own pub estate, the largest
volume with any one customer represents only 3.4 per cent of our
total volumes. We have a valuable beer supply connection with the
expanding Maclay Group and we continue to evolve our relationship
with the high profile Montpelier Group with whom we have
recently concluded a joint venture agreement to develop a hotel
with bar, restaurant and club facilities in Edinburgh’s George Street.
Our distribution resources have been significantly improved
through the provision of a new warehouse at Dumyat Business Park
near Stirling at a cost of £1.27 million. This is a freehold unit which
is exceptionally well located and it will serve us extremely well in
the future, as will our other distribution centres in Dunbar,
Aberdeen and Dumfries. Scotland’s road network is becoming
increasingly congested and we endeavour to organise our
distribution routes in such a way as to drive against the flow of
traffic wherever possible.
COST PRESSURES
We currently face unwelcome cost pressures, most of which are
not of our own making. At the brewery, energy, effluent treatment
and water costs have risen sharply. In drinks distribution, the cost of
fuel continues to escalate and we have incurred higher overhead
depreciation and finance charges as a result of expanding our
warehouse facilities in Stirling. The upward trend in the minimum
wage remains the principal driver of cost in our pubs which are not
immune to the issues affecting the other divisions.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9
TABLE 3 53 weeks 52 weeks
Belhaven Pubs Results to 3.4.05 to 28.3.04 Increase
£m £m %
Turnover - Managed 44.19 33.51
- Tenanted 14.49 10.77
Total 58.68 44.28 32.5
Profit Contribution - Managed 11.19 8.59
- Tenanted 7.69 5.72
Total 18.88 14.31 31.9
Pub central costs (3.78) (2.50)
Operating Profit - Belhaven Pubs 15.10 11.81 27.9
TABLE 4 53 weeks 52 weeks
Belhaven Drinks Results to 3.4.05 to 28.3.04 Increase
£m £m %
Turnover including internal sales 80.33 69.24 16.0
Gross Profit 34.18 29.60 15.5
Selling costs (8.66) (7.88) 9.9
Discounts on internal sales (8.53) (6.18) 38.0
Overheads (8.41) (7.60) 10.7
Operating Profit - Belhaven Drinks 8.58 7.94 8.1 “Belhaven Best’s popularity continues
to grow with an increase in volume
of 8.6%.” PEOPLE
I am pleased to say that Belhaven was re-accredited (for the
third time) as an Investor in People in June 2004 and we continue
to use performance management techniques to catalyse training
programmes in all departments of the Company.
The Chairman has already thanked employees at all levels of the
Group and I would warmly endorse his remarks. I would particularly
like to thank my four direct reports David Morrison, Ian Herok,
Jeff Myers and Bill Hughes for their pivotal contributions over the
past year. The executive management team very much appreciates
the valuable advice and counsel proffered by our non-executive
Directors Angus Meldrum, Alistair Arkley and Graeme Bissett and
we are indebted to them for their thorough approach to the
obligation imposed upon Belhaven to comply with new corporate
governance regulations.
I look forward very much to working with our new Group Finance
Director Ron Robson who has recently taken over from David
Morrison with whom I forged a close business relationship for the
best part of thirty years. Best wishes, David, and thanks.
Finally, I would like to express our appreciation to all those who
support us – our shareholders, our trade customers and consumers,
our tenants, our suppliers, our professional advisors and our bankers.
Belhaven is indeed fortunate in the outstanding loyalty and
consistent backing which we have received from a wide variety of
important stakeholders in the business over many years now.
RECENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK
Levels of trading and profitability in the first two months of the
new financial year have been in line with internal expectation.
Consumer spending patterns remain inconsistent and market
conditions are as challenging as they were last year. Belhaven has a
resilient business model which has stood the test of time and my
colleagues and I are confident that we will achieve our immediate
aim of delivering a sixteenth year of uninterrupted growth.
The outlook beyond March 2006 is less certain. It is not possible
to predict the impact on the turnover of pubs as a result of the
proposed ban on smoking in licensed premises and Belhaven does
not expect to be immune from the general effect. The smoking
ban represents a major cultural change for Scottish people and
presents both opportunities and threats for the pub industry.
Our management team will be highly focused on mitigating
the threats and maximising the opportunities.
Stuart Ross
Chief Executive
6 June 2005 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11
