 A distinctive  
investment opportunity 
Polymetal remains a distinctive name in our sector 
known for our high-grade assets, technological  
expertise and capital discipline that result in both  
growth and dividends through the cycle. By playing to 
our competitive strengths (selective mining, processing 
refractory ores, trading precious metals concentrates) 
and with our sound knowledge of the precious metals 
mining space in r ussia and the Former Soviet u nion, we 
have been able to pursue further attractive opportunities. 
The Company’s business model enables us to deliver  
dual value to our shareholders. We are committed  
to maintaining a robust free cash flow that ensures 
sustainable, through-the-cycle cash returns in the form 
of dividends for our shareholders. at the same time,  
the development of a strong portfolio of next-generation 
assets offers a long-term investment that will help us 
sustain growth and create future wealth.
Chairman’s statement
Dear fellow stakeholders
i am delighted to report that, despite the challenges  
in end markets for our products and currency volatilty, 
Polymetal has again delivered a solid set of operating  
and financial results. 
While depressed commodity prices and geopolitical 
pressures continued to dominate in 2015, making market 
conditions ever-more difficult for the global gold mining 
industry, Polymetal’s fundamental strengths have enabled  
us to continue making good progress.
The price of gold declined by 8% in 2015. The silver price 
was 18% lower. The price of copper and other non-precious 
minerals remained depressed suggesting an end of the 
commodity super-cycle. 
 
The rapid decline in the price of oil had a major impact on the 
economies of both r ussia and Kazakhstan, where Polymetal 
operates, resulting in currency devaluation, recession and 
increased inflation levels. The devaluation itself had a positive 
effect on the business, significantly reducing our r ouble- and 
Tenge-denominated costs. However, greater macroeconomic 
instability did impact our operations and created challenges 
for local governments and our own employees 
as consumers.
Our g roup Chief executive, v italy n esis, reports in more 
detail about our performance on the following pages.
Dividends
Strong free cash flow generation remains a key differentiator 
for Polymetal. g enerating a healthy free cash flow of  
u S$263 million during the year coupled with a strong 
balance sheet, we continued to translate this into cash 
returns for our investors.
The Company paid out u S$127 million in special dividends  
in 2015. This brings the total amount of dividends declared 
during 2015 to u S$216 million, an increase of almost 25%  
on last year’s total of u S$173 million. Despite global and  
local challenges, Polymetal remains fully committed  
to delivering value to its shareholders.
Increased focus on health and safety is vital
i am extremely sad to report that we lost six of our colleagues 
at our operations during 2015. i would like to offer my 
personal condolences, along with those of the Board,  
to all their families and friends. 
With the increased scope of underground mining across  
our operating mines and the geotechnical complexities that 
this entails, we must intensify our focus on improving the 
safety of underground operations and preventative risk 
management. With this objective, the Board has now 
established a dedicated Safety & Sustainability Committee. 
We are determined to turn the situation around in 2016 and 
the Committee has already begun an in-depth review of the 
safety and environmental management systems, along with 
the measures and incentives currently in place for better 
safety performance. 
Capital discipline secures future
The Board upholds the principles of good corporate 
governance with clear and accountable reporting practices 
that ensure proper balance sheet management and  
an appropriate approach to leverage by the Company.  
The capital discipline we impose on all investment and 
operational decisions has enabled us – even in a depressed 
commodity cycle – to be confident about the business 
choices we make. in the current complex macroeconomic 
conditions, we remain committed to maintaining a healthy 
dividend stream whilst continuing to pursue value creating 
growth opportunities and maintaining appropriate 
leverage levels.
The Kyzyl project is a prime example of our business 
fundamentals. The feasibility study confirmed both the  
robust economics and development approach of the project. 
The Board approval was unequivocal and our task now  
is to ensure the timely construction of Kyzyl within the 
approved budget.
We are also well positioned to take advantage of new 
opportunities as they arise. One such opportunity is the 
recently formed joint venture with Polyus g old for the 
development of the n ezhdaninskoye deposit. With 
Polymetal’s management approach, this is another 
undertaking set to be characterised by low capital intensity.
Bobby Godsell
Chairman
28 March 2016
ensuring sustainable  
value for the future
We are committed to maintaining 
a robust free cash flow that 
ensures sustainable, through- 
the-cycle cash returns for our 
shareholders. At the same time, 
the development of a strong 
portfolio of next-generation assets 
offers a long-term investment  
that will help us sustain growth 
and create future wealth.
+US$263 million
Free cash flow in 2015
6%
Dividend yield in 2015
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices
13 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015 g roup Chief executive’s review
Today’s resilient performance 
underpins future growth
Our resilient financial performance 
today allows us the flexibility  
to develop our focused pipeline  
of long-life projects and continue 
to generate cash flow now and  
in the future.
although currency movements were generally favourable  
for us during 2015, we still had to contend with continued 
pressure from depressed commodity prices in the gold 
mining sector. We retained our focus on preparing for the 
next growth stage and fulfilled expectations with a year of 
strong operational delivery.
The start of 2016 saw a moderate upturn in the global gold 
market and, while we are unlikely to see prices peak at 2011 
levels, gold is certainly being viewed as a safe haven for 
investors during the continuing economic and political 
upheaval. looking to the future, the gradual depletion of 
higher grade resources worldwide and the suspension  
of costly expansion projects will become more evident,  
with the reduction in supply serving to boost the gold price. 
Dynamic performance reaps rewards
Polymetal’s gold equivalent production for 2015 (based on 
1:80 ag/au conversion ratio) comprised 1.27 Moz. This was 
4% above the original production guidance for the year and 
the fourth year in a row in which we have exceeded our 
annual estimates. 
Whilst all our operations delivered in line with expectations, 
the gold equivalent production at Dukat made a significant 
contribution, increasing by 14% year-on-year. The amursk 
pressure oxidation (POX) plant delivered a stable operating 
performance. it has become a flagship operation, producing 
260 Koz of gold in 2015.
Kyzyl – the highlight of the year
Our top priority is clearly the launch of Kyzyl, one  
of the highest grade and largest untapped gold deposits  
in the world. Our confidence in Kyzyl as an investment that 
matched our strategic growth priorities, whilst leveraging  
our core strengths, was fully validated by our audited 
feasibility study.
The feasibility study confirmed the economic viability of  
the project, which is now set to become one of the highest 
grade and largest development projects in the sector 
globally. it also endorsed Polymetal’s capabilities for handling 
complex refractory ores and the proposed low-capital 
intensity approach, maximising the return on invested capital. 
Following Board approval, construction work is now under 
way and we are on track to bring Kyzyl into production  
in 2018, ramping it up to full capacity in 2019. Kyzyl  
is set to become a substantial free cash flow contributor 
for Polymetal.
Safety and sustainability at the forefront
reviewing and reinforcing our health and safety procedures 
continues to be a matter of urgency following the loss of six 
of our colleagues during 2015. The establishment of the new 
Safety and Sustainability Committee and the in-depth study 
of our risk and environmental management systems is part  
of a concerted effort to improve this situation. Management 
at all levels are committed to radically improving the 
Company’s safety performance with zero fatalities  
still very much our aim.
The increase in underground mining across our operations 
has brought with it a heightened level of risk and we are 
working hard to alleviate this. at Mayskoye, one of our major 
underground mining sites, we have initiated a change to the 
mining method that aims to reduce geotechnical hazards. 
We are very mindful of our duty of care towards all 
employees and to the communities in which we operate, 
particularly given the currently depressed general economic 
climate. We take our social and environmental responsibilities 
very seriously and were honoured to receive recognition from 
two significant bodies during 2015. We were integrated into 
the euronext v igeo emerging 70 index, comprised of the top 
70 emerging market companies with the most advanced 
corporate social responsibility programmes. We were  
also included in both the FTSe4g ood g lobal index and 
FTSe4g ood europe index for the first time; companies 
selected for both indices must meet stringent environmental, 
social and governance criteria.
Investing in future growth
Our resilient financial performance today allows us the 
flexibility to develop our focused pipeline of future projects. 
During the year we expanded our portfolio of near-mine 
advanced exploration projects through the acquisition of 
Primorskoye, a silver/gold site 215 km from our Omsukchan 
concentrator, and by acquiring l ichkvaz, our first asset 
in armenia. initial exploration drilling at l ichkvaz has begun 
and a JOr C-compliant resource estimate is expected in 
2016; drilling at Primorskoye will begin later in the year with 
an audited reserve estimate due by December 2016. 
at the end of 2015 we announced an exciting new joint 
venture with Polyus g old at n ezhdaninskoye, the fourth 
largest gold deposit in r ussia based on the r ussian reserves 
and reporting system (g KZ) resources. n ezhdaninskoye fits 
perfectly with Polymetal’s proven capabilities in developing 
remote assets, selective underground mining and refractory 
ore processing. g iven the size of the deposit, there is 
significant potential for high grade and a long mine 
life operation.
looking further ahead, we are actively engaged in putting 
together a portfolio of long-life projects with high-option 
value, like that of Kyzyl, which will allow us to reap the benefit 
of major contributions to cash flow in the future. However, 
this in no way detracts from our firm commitment of 
delivering considerable value to our shareholders through 
substantial dividend payments out of free cash flow.
Our achievements to date are a testament to the quality,  
skills and commitment of our management and employees.  
i would like to thank them for all their efforts and i look 
forward to their continuing support and enthusiasm in  
helping Polymetal realise the next phase in its strategic plan.
Vitaly Nesis
Group CEO
28 March 2016
US$733/GE oz
All-in sustaining cash cost -18% 
(2014: u S$893/ge oz)
1.27 Moz
Gold equivalent production 
(+4% vs original guidance)
Summary 
Increased production
•	 ge production 4% above original guidance
•	 ge production at Dukat increased 14% year-on-year
•	 260 Koz gold produced at amursk POX, now  
a flagship operation
Development and acquisitions 
•	 economic viability of Kyzyl confirmed; production  
to commence in 2018
•	 acquisition of l ichkvaz, our first exploration  
asset in armenia
•	 n ew joint venture at n ezhdaninskoye,  
r ussia’s 4th largest gold deposit
Safety and sustainability
•	 n ew Safety and Sustainability Committee established
•	 in-depth analysis of risk and environmental  
systems underway
•	 inclusions in the euronext v igeo emerging 70, 
FTSe4g ood and FTSe4g ood europe indices
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Appendices
15 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2015 Polymetal International plc Polymetal International plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
