 Overview: another record  
year of growth 
2015 was an extremely busy year 
for Playtech, both operationally and 
strategically. I am delighted to say that  
we once again delivered a record financial 
performance with reported revenues up  
38% and up 26% on an underlying basis. 
Our Gaming division continues to lead 
the industry and drive growth, driven 
by Playtech’s enhanced IMS forming the 
infrastructure underpinning our pioneering 
omni-channel offering, which is gradually 
becoming the standard for the retail and 
online gaming industry, with our Financials 
division taking Playtech into a new, high-
growth vertical. 
There are significant opportunities for further 
growth, both organically and through 
M&A, with a strong pipeline for 2016 and 
significant new wins expected, providing 
confidence in strong growth in 2016 and 
beyond. 
Performance of the  
Gaming division
Overview
Our Gaming division has seen strong growth 
across regions and product verticals, driven 
by our strategy of focusing on regulated 
markets.
Licensees
During the year we achieved many new 
customer wins, evidencing the strength  
of our offering. We signed a total of ten 
new customers, including Sun Bingo, 
Marca, win2day, Mr Green and LeoVegas. 
In addition to new customer wins, we have 
seen existing customers expanding into new 
territories, expanding portfolios with us such 
as portal and mini-games, and strengthening 
relationships, such as with a single Playtech 
wallet. With such a strong performance in 
2015, our pipeline remains strong and we 
expect more significant wins in 2016.
We not only secured additional customers 
that signed up to our best-of-breed software 
but also made great progress securing 
additional structured agreements and white-
label arrangements, such as the Sun and 
Marca. Together with other licensees that 
signed structured agreements in previous 
years, such as Caliente, where momentum is 
building every quarter, we are seeing strong 
positive momentum with such agreements. 
The ability to provide the combination 
of software and services is becoming a 
recurring theme we experience in regulated 
and soon-to-be-regulated markets and 
remains a key element of our future success. 
Not only are such contracts broad and 
potentially significant in size, they also 
cement the relationship with Playtech,  
its licensees and partners for many years.
Leaders, innovators, pioneers
Our Gaming division continues to lead the industry and drive growth, 
driven by Playtech’s enhanced IMS forming the infrastructure underpinning 
our pioneering omni-channel offering, which is gradually becoming the 
standard for the retail and online gaming industry, with our Financials 
division taking Playtech into a new, high-growth vertical
 10
Ten new customer wins
41%
Revenues from regulated 
markets (2014: 36%)
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
22     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review Regulated markets
Playtech continues to focus on regulated 
markets which now account for 41%  
of gaming revenues (2014: 36%) and 
approaching 50% when including  
revenues from Markets Limited. Whilst  
some unregulated markets still continue 
to grow significantly, the underlying 
expansion into regulated markets is 
expected to continue and support a 
positive trend in the coming years given 
Playtech’s focus and investments made  
in different regulated and soon-to-be-
regulated markets. 
The growth from regulated markets is a 
combination of new licensees, organic 
growth of existing licensees that are already 
established in different regulated markets, 
the introduction of new regulated gambling 
formats and marketing investments diverted 
to regulated markets by various operators 
that traditionally operated in unregulated 
markets and are still in the transition process 
– a trend we expect to continue. 
On the official date set by Spanish regulator 
La Dirección General de Ordenación 
del Juego (DGOJ) for the allowance of 
casino slot games in June 2015, Playtech 
announced that it would supply all existing 
local licensees with access to its extensive, 
industry-leading slots portfolio. The Spanish 
gaming regulator approved slot games in 
July 2015 and reopened its licensing window 
in November 2014, the first time this has 
taken place since the market regulated in 
June 2012. Given the popularity of retail 
casino formats in Spain the inclusion of 
online casino games and slots in Spain is 
seen as an important milestone and will 
serve to increase Playtech’s market share 
as licensees enjoy the ability to cross-sell 
between different products in a similar 
fashion to the example set in the UK and 
Italian markets, with sports being the main 
gateway to casino and the popularity of  
slot games. 
Other markets across Europe, Latin 
America and elsewhere are in the process 
of considering regulations. This trend is 
inevitable and we expected this to continue 
in the coming quarters. Many markets across 
Europe, including Portugal, the Netherlands, 
Switzerland, Sweden and the Czech Republic 
are in the process of regulating, as well as 
various markets in Latin America, such as 
Brazil, which has indicated that it is in the 
process of regulating online sports betting. 
We see significant opportunities to establish 
ourselves in these markets as Playtech is a 
natural choice given its ability to provide a 
combination of best-of-breed technology  
and services across all channels, its market 
leading position and proven track record. 
Playtech ONE: omni-channel offering
Playtech’s pioneering Playtech ONE offering 
allows players a seamless, ‘anywhere-anytime’ 
gaming experience across any product, 
channel and device, all using a single account 
and single wallet and is critical to allowing our 
licensees to outperform. The Playtech ONE 
approach and offering not only makes the 
customer journey seamless across different 
channels, it also provides more visibility across 
the different channels and therefore makes it 
easier to identify, track and, most importantly, 
better communicate and better serve their 
customers. 
Our proven track record of working with 
various operators in regulated markets 
clearly shows that there is an overlap in 
demographics of retail and online, that 
traditional retail customers playing online 
are more valuable, and that the acquisition 
costs associated with such players are far 
lower when compared to direct acquisition 
channels and therefore extremely beneficial 
to the operators. 
In April 2015, Playtech announced that it 
would increase the workforce developing 
the omni-channel solution as it prepares 
to undertake several large-scale omni-
channel projects in the UK and emerging 
markets. Sports betting has seen the largest 
investment as part of the Playtech ONE 
strategic. Sports betting is a key element of 
Playtech ONE as online sports betting is one 
of the first formats to be regulated in newly 
regulated markets and acts as the gateway  
to other gaming products. It is also one of the 
first to be adopted by retail betting operators 
since sports represents their core business 
and an extension to online sports betting  
is a natural choice for them. 
In 2015, Playtech announced the launch  
of its first omni-channel HTML5 front-end 
solution with Ladbrokes, enabling a seamless, 
fully responsive and fully adaptive desktop 
and mobile user experience and a host of 
unique, new sportsbook features. In a market-
first, Ladbrokes’s new Playtech Sports HTML5 
solution significantly boosted its sportsbook 
performance and optimisation capabilities 
ahead of the English Premier League season. 
In November 2015, Playtech launched  
omni-channel content across Mecca Bingo’s 
entire product range including its new 
Mecca Max handheld devices enabling the 
leading brand to offer players the ultimate 
gaming experience. The ground-breaking, 
‘anywhere-anytime’ , seamless connection 
of Playtech ONE omni-channel games and 
systems across every channel and device – 
including Mecca’s retail, online, mobile and 
12,000 in-hall bingo handheld terminals –  
is the first time a supplier has successfully 
launched a combined bingo software 
and content strategy. The move followed 
the launch earlier in the year of Playtech’s 
industry-leading retail server-based software 
across Mecca Bingo’s entire suite of 2,300 
UK terminals and a number of other 
successful omni-channel system integrations 
including the pioneering Coral Connect. 
The nationwide retail deal, signed in the 
summer in partnership with SG Gaming, 
boosted Playtech’s already important role 
in the UK LBO market and is its largest ever 
within the UK retail bingo sector. It also 
complements the existing long-term online 
bingo partnership with Mecca, a key, tier-
one Playtech licensee.
Finally, at ICE 2016 Playtech showcased  
many new omni-channel innovations, 
including the ability to cash-out retail 
sport-bets on online devices and true 
omni-channel slot games designed so 
that additional features are unlocked as 
the players move between the different 
channels to play the same game.
Mobile
Mobile continues to be a core part of 
our growth strategy with Playtech taking 
an omni-channel approach to the way 
it develops new products that includes 
a mobile capability of each version of its 
software and games. The importance of 
mobile is supported by its growing share of 
revenues, representing 21% of 2015 software 
revenues compared to 16% in 2014, with 
a significant majority of Sports revenues 
coming through this channel. Whilst Mobile 
has existed for some time it is only partially 
adopted by various operators and we expect 
that mobile gaming will increase over time 
to become a very significant channel for 
gaming.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     23
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Superman I (1978) and Superman II (1980). 
All of Playtech’s global content studios have 
been engaged to work on, design, develop 
and deploy games based on these coveted 
properties from DC Entertainment and 
Warner Bros. Consumer Products.
Services
Services revenues increased 17%, benefiting 
from recently signed structured agreements, 
enjoying greater penetration of its customer 
base and positively impacted by the addition 
of the newly established white-label offering. 
Playtech saw particularly strong momentum 
with existing structured agreements such as 
Caliente, which is building to become one of 
the leading online operators in Mexico, and 
other new licensees signed such as Marca 
and Sun Bingo which will be launched in late 
2016. Founded on the strength of Playtech’s 
track record and strength of offering, we 
expect the continued growth of existing 
licensees and additional new licensees 
in existing and soon to be regulated 
jurisdictions. 
Services offers a unique set of operational 
capabilities and expertise that are 
unparalleled in an industry divided between 
software providers, that lack such services 
capabilities, and operators that are not 
inclined to share their know-how with other 
operators that could potentially become 
a competitor. Accordingly, Playtech is the 
natural choice for gaming customers in 
different regulated markets that understand 
that the winning combination is a well 
recognised brand, online marketing and 
CRM skills all driven by best-of-breed 
technology. They also understand that  
time-to-market is extremely important. 
Playtech is best positioned in such markets 
as it can not only provide them with a 
best-of-breed technology but can also 
complement it with online expertise and 
capabilities, which are very different than 
those which exist in their retail operations 
and provide it ahead or as soon as 
regulations are being introduced. 
Our modular offering is proven to be highly 
successful as services is not a ‘one size fits 
all’ but rather a fully customised solution in 
accordance with the specific requirements 
of each company. It also allows Playtech to 
position itself in different regulated markets 
with not only well established retail gaming 
operators but other types of organisations, 
such as existing online operators and media 
companies. 
Product
Playtech continues to lead innovation 
and can deploy unmatched research and 
development resources, all of which is 
available to our licensees. 
At the start of 2015, Playtech unveiled a 
series of never-before-seen features within 
an expanded Virtual Sports portfolio, 
including a fully simulated football game, 
allowing for realistic betting and gameplay. 
Each game employs leading-edge graphics 
based on feature film motion capture 
technology, shot on location and using 
professional sportsmen and women. Realistic 
odds and an increase in betting options, 
multiple languages with local language 
commentaries and in-game branding 
provide both operators and their players 
with the ultimate virtual sports experience. 
The power of the Company’s development 
capability was demonstrated in April 2015 
when, coinciding with the launch of Apple 
Watch, Playtech launched its first sports 
betting App for wearable devices – including 
Apple Watch. A team of Playtech’s most 
experienced developers worked intensively 
to deliver the Apple Watch betting App, 
presenting it for approval by Apple as soon 
its submission window opened at the 
beginning of April. Playtech’s Apple Watch 
App was made available to all licensees 
at launch with GalaCoral being the first to 
roll-out the App to its extensive UK and 
European player base in an extension to its 
multi-year ‘Coral Connect’ omni-channel 
contract. The App enables users to initiate 
bets, browse live and forthcoming sporting 
events, monitor promotions, receive alerts 
via technology linked to a user’s iOS mobile 
application and features full cash out 
functionality. 
In November 2015, Playtech launched live 
Prestige Roulette, a modern-day variant 
of the classic casino table game. Set in an 
intimate, neon-lit environment Prestige 
Roulette enables players to get closer to 
the action and the dealer with the game 
replicating a real-life, one-on-one VIP 
casino experience. While the ball spins in 
expectation of a big win, the tension is 
heightened with multiple in-game camera 
angles, revenue-enhancing quick-fire betting 
rounds, and an instant replay of the previous 
game win. Players are further empowered 
and engaged with the ability to display or 
hide the bet table on any channel or device 
by clicking or touching the middle of the 
screen. Once the bet table is minimised 
players gain access to a full-screen view of 
the action, further intensifying the personal 
look and feel of playing one-on-one with the 
dealer. Prestige Roulette is available across 
all channels and platforms, Flash, HTML5 and 
native and features enhanced video quality 
and high resolution.
Gaming division performance by vertical
Casino
Playtech’s flagship Casino product was once 
again the largest contributor to Playtech’s 
growth, with revenues increasing 26%  
in the year.
Playtech continued to further extend  
its content library, strengthening what  
is already the largest content portfolio  
in the online gaming industry, including 
launching a ‘supersonic’, premium branded, 
and officially licensed slot game themed  
on the iconic action classic Top Gun  
which coincided with the classic film’s  
30th anniversary in 2016 and Tom Cruise 
saying earlier in 2015 that he “would  
like to fly those jets again” in a sequel 
currently being written.
After the year end, Playtech signed a multi-
year landmark licensing deal with Warner 
Bros. Consumer Products, on behalf of 
DC Entertainment, to develop four iconic 
DC Comics branded film and television 
properties into leading omni-channel casino 
games. These action-packed real-money 
casino games are set to begin rolling out this 
year. The four titles include the DC Comics 
1960’s Batman Classic TV Series, as well as 
Warner Bros. Pictures’ feature films, Man 
of Steel (2013), Green Lantern (2011), and 
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
2015 was an extremely 
busy year for Playtech, both 
operationally and strategically. 
24     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Bingo
Bingo revenues increased by 17% with 
significantly increased mobile and tablet 
penetration. A major promotion in December 
was a significant contributor to it being 
biggest month of the year for Bingo.
Bingo side games, which are recorded under 
the Casino line item, increased in line with 
the growth in core Bingo activity, also driven 
by the mobile offering, including ‘mobile 
first’ features and functionality such as lottery 
style interactive scratchcards.
The year saw further strengthening of 
relationships with existing Bingo customers 
as well as a new five-year deal with News UK 
to operate its Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo 
websites and mobile variants. The sites 
will launch at the end of the third quarter 
following the migration of existing players  
to Virtue Fusion’s leading UK bingo network. 
The Sun Bingo and Fabulous Bingo are 
amongst the largest and most successful 
bingo offerings that exist in the UK. 
Playtech’s bingo liquidity pool combined 
with its operational expertise and capabilities 
enabled the company to secure this highly 
lucrative agreement. 
Earlier in the year, work was completed on 
an HTML5 only platform, allowing Playtech 
to operate from one code base thereby 
increasing productivity as well as having 
the additional benefit of being a true multi-
channel single look and feel offering across 
desktop, mobile and tablet.
In February 2015, Playtech announced 
the launch of Rainbow Riches Bingo – the 
first ever bingo variant of the iconic cross-
channel brand, licensed and developed 
in partnership with Scientific Games. The 
UK’s most popular retail slot game, which 
enjoys huge success in the land-based 
bingo market, it was launched as a mobile 
and online bingo variant with a £100,000 
promotion in the run up to St Patrick’s Day 
on 17 March 2015. 
Sport
Revenues from Sports grew 22% in the year 
with a significant increase from mobile.
Sports remains largely an untapped market 
for Playtech and we expect it to continue 
growing rapidly in this developing and 
growing market. We identified a very 
significant opportunity in developing 
certain initiatives with some of our existing 
large licensees as well as new potential 
bookmakers as regulations develop. 
Playtech’s Sports offering represents a 
significant potential growth opportunity 
for the Group as further business wins are 
achieved in line with the Group’s strategy 
and continued focus.
In recent years, new digital formats of 
sports betting, such as tablets and SSBTs 
(Self Service Betting Terminals), have been 
introduced in retail sports betting outlets 
and even over the counter activities  
are being digitised, introducing new 
ways for customers to transact in retail 
environments. In addition, sports betting 
has been regulated in over 20 markets 
with a further 15 markets in the process of 
regulating sports and gaming currently. 
Such a combination of retail operations 
transforming into the digital age, together 
with markets allowing online sports betting, 
creates a very significant opportunity for 
operators and Playtech alike. 
Sports remains one of the critical 
components of our Playtech ONE offering. 
It acts as the gateway into gaming across 
both retail and online and is traditionally 
one of the first, if not the first, product 
to be regulated. The ability to provide 
an integrated retail and online sports 
system, offered through web and mobile, 
complemented by best-of-breed gaming 
products is unique and highly attractive 
to many operators across Europe and 
elsewhere, as most operators use old 
proprietary legacy retail systems that are  
not scalable and do not fit the digital age. 
As markets become more competitive, 
operators and bookmakers in particular 
search for different ways to differentiate 
themselves from their competitors and some 
bookmakers decided to develop the mobile 
front end of their offering internally. While 
the mobile front end is the simplest and the 
least sophisticated part of a true omnibus 
channel sports offering, Playtech continues 
to invest into a very flexible mobile front end 
framework and capabilities that will allow 
operators to distinguish themselves from 
their competition. 
2016 is expected to see revenues from 
Sports decline due to the loss of three 
Mobenga contracts with UK licensees who 
are replacing with their own user experience 
platform.
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     25
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
continued
Land-based
Land-based revenues jumped by 79% 
boosted by the first full year inclusion of 
Videobet Interactive (formerly Aristocrat 
Lotteries) and supplemented by strong 
growth from Videobet and IGS. 
Following the acquisition of Videobet 
Interactive, Playtech’s leading land-based 
operation further extended its reach 
and diversification across key regulated 
markets. The acquisition also created cross-
selling opportunities in existing and new 
jurisdictions with the benefit of this cross-
selling contributing to growth in the year.
Videobet performed strongly during the 
year with several thousand terminals 
rolled-out across multiple licences. Mecca 
Bingo ordered 2,300 cabinets which 
were delivered in H1 2015 and which are 
generating revenue, with 500 supplied to 
RAY and 370 to QuickSilver Talarius. Also, in a 
highly competitive public procurement bid 
Videobet won a game supply contract with 
Norsk Tipping, the Norwegian state owned 
gaming monopoly, to supply games for the 
Multix (kiosks) and Belago (bingo halls).
Our presence in land based environments 
is still very limited and we believe that our 
omni-channel offering combined with our 
machine technologies and content, will 
become increasingly appealing to different 
operators, not only driving momentum in 
the coming years but also supporting our 
efforts to provide online products creating 
significant cross-selling opportunities driven 
by the inevitable convergence between the 
land based or retail and online activities. 
Poker
Poker remains a challenging vertical due 
to unfavourable wider market trends, with 
revenues down 19% in the half compared to 
the same period last year, although already 
from a very low base.
During 2015 we made significant investment 
in iPoker technical infrastructure as well as 
in our New Player Valuation. This investment 
stabilised our poker ecosystem and was the 
first step in our recreational player strategy 
that allowed us to merge our two-tier 
liquidity pools into a single tier and prepared 
the ground for further investment in our 
poker product offering.
During the second half of 2015, Playtech’s 
focus shifted from the network infrastructure 
to our product offering to cater for our 
recreational player strategy. During this 
period, we successfully started to rollout 
our new mobile product with mobile poker 
increasingly important as an acquisition 
channel since players via this channel are 
typically more recreational. 
We continuously work together with our 
licensees on improving our product offering, 
stabilising our ecosystem and network 
against the downward trend in poker over 
many years. During the first half of 2016 we 
plan to continue improving our product 
offering with the introduction of a new 
client, new game types and new CRM tools 
to cater for our recreational strategy.
Creation of the  
Financials division
Overview
Playtech has a stated strategy to acquire 
profitable, regulated, highly cash generative 
businesses with market-leading positions. The 
first half of 2015 saw the creation of Playtech’s 
Financials division through the completed 
acquisition of TradeFX Limited, which has 
subsequently been renamed Markets Limited, 
an online CFDs broker and trading platform 
and services provider, operating in more 
than 100 countries and in over 25 languages, 
with both B2C and B2B offerings. The initial 
consideration for the acquisition was €208m 
with additional cash consideration of up to 
€250m payable based on Markets Limited’s 
financial performance for the financial year 
ending 31 December 2017. 
Founded in 2009, Markets Limited employs 
approximately 500 staff globally, with offices 
in five countries around the world. Markets 
Limited operates its B2C brand, Markets 
Limited, utilising proprietary technology 
and CRM capabilities focused on increasing 
customer conversion rates and maximising 
customer lifetime value.
The acquisition represented a compelling 
opportunity to enter a growing and 
complementary vertical driven by 
similar core competencies to Playtech’s 
Gaming division and was directly in line 
with Playtech’s M&A strategy. Markets 
Limited also came with an experienced 
management team, with a proven track 
record, who will remain with the business.
26     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Changes to the business model  
of Markets Limited
The regulatory backdrop under which 
Markets Limited operates has become 
increasingly developed, with tighter 
restrictions and controls imposed on brokers. 
Examples of this can be found both across 
Europe and in certain specific jurisdictions, 
such as changes to when ‘trading incentives’ 
can be granted, limiting leverage, enhancing 
onboarding requirements, stricter 
interpretation of procedures and greater 
regulatory scrutiny in general.
Against this backdrop, Playtech is taking 
a risk-averse approach and has taken the 
decision to improve its business model to 
further enhance compliance, control and 
oversight, setting industry-leading standards 
in these areas:
• introducing stricter on-boarding 
procedures, controls and processes,  
going beyond industry standards;
• further developing our media buying 
technology, with strong focus on 
marketing our own trading platform  
as the main channel for growth;
• focusing on the core brand of  
Markets Limited;
• the cessation of trading relationships  
with large business introducers in  
respect of the core brand; and
• establishment of B2B relationships 
leveraging on servicing our technology 
and CRM capabilities, with a strong 
pipeline for 2016.
In certain jurisdictions, where practicable, 
Markets Limited introduced its previously 
contracted business introducers to other 
regulated businesses where it provides a 
range of different turnkey B2B services.
These quality improvements to the business 
will lay the foundations for future growth 
through:
• customer acquisition through  
automated funnels;
• better technology, with a wider  
offering of instruments;
• enhanced automation of  
on-boarding processes;
• focus on CRM activities;
• control over brand; and
• strong B2B pipeline extending  
our reach to new geographies  
with local regulations.
These improvements will ensure that 
Markets Limited is better placed to capture 
new profitable business whilst at the 
same time ensuring that the very highest 
standards of compliance are at the forefront 
of its strategy. 
However, as a result, whilst the business 
is expected to see strong growth in KPIs, 
positioning the business for sustained 
growth, total revenue growth in 2016 will be 
impacted due to the transition away from 
indirect revenues from business introducers 
to focusing on direct activity and further 
expanding B2B relationships. Adjusted 
EBITDA margin in 2016 will also be impacted 
due to the strong focus on investing for 
future growth in KPIs through increased 
direct marketing initiatives alongside further 
investment in media buying technology, 
compliance systems and marketing.
Other M&A and investments
Ladbrokes and GalaCoral
Both Ladbrokes and GalaCoral are key 
licensees of Playtech. 
As part of the recommended merger 
between Ladbrokes and certain businesses 
of GalaCoral announced in July 2015, 
to assist in providing flexibility for the 
combined entity to achieve integration 
and realise synergies, Playtech agreed, 
conditional upon completion of the 
merger, to accelerate the determination 
of amounts due to it under its marketing 
services agreement with Ladbrokes. The 
sum agreed was £75m, of which £40m will 
be satisfied by way of the issue of shares in 
the combined entity on completion with 
a further guaranteed £35m in cash paid 
upon delivery by Playtech of key operational 
milestones but, in any event, within 42 
months following completion.
In addition, demonstrating its support for 
the proposed merger, Playtech acted as 
a cornerstone investor, taking 22.9% of 
the c.9.99% equity placing announced by 
Ladbrokes at the time of the announcement 
of the merger. Subsequent to this, Playtech 
purchased further shares in Ladbrokes to 
take its total holding to 9.7%.
Yoyo Games
In February 2015, Playtech announced the 
acquisition of UK-based Yoyo Games Limited 
for $16.4m (€14.4m). Yoyo is the home 
of Game Maker: Studio, a mobile driven 
cross-platform casual game development 
technology that enables developers to 
create games using a single programming 
code and then publish them to run natively 
across most common platforms, including 
iOS, Android, OS X, HTML5, PlayStation, Xbox, 
Ubuntu, Windows 8, Windows Phone 8 and 
Windows RT. 
Plus500
Following the acquisition of Markets 
Limited, Playtech announced a £460m 
recommended cash offer for Plus500, a 
developer and operator of online trading 
platforms for retail customers, on 1 June 
2015. Having secured the support of both 
shareholders of Playtech and Plus500, 
the acquisition was initially expected 
to complete in September, subject to 
regulatory approvals. 
Regulatory approval was received from the 
Cyprus Securities Exchange Commission 
and Playtech was in active dialogue with 
the Financial Conduct Authority (‘FCA’) 
in relation to its proposed acquisition of 
Plus500, including in relation to certain 
concerns raised by the FCA which the 
Company considered could be resolved 
to the satisfaction of the FCA prior to 31 
December 2015, being the effective long-
stop date for the transaction to complete. 
There are significant 
opportunities for further 
growth, both organically and 
through M&A, with a strong 
pipeline for 2016 and significant 
new wins expected, providing 
confidence in strong growth  
in 2016 and beyond. 
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     27
Strategic report Governance Financial statements However, following an update from the FCA 
late in the afternoon of Friday 20 November 
2015, the Board of Playtech took the view 
that the steps being proposed to address 
these concerns would not sufficiently satisfy 
the FCA to enable Playtech to obtain the 
FCA’s approval by 31 December 2015, and 
therefore withdrew its change of control 
application to the FCA. Playtech discussed 
with Plus500 the consequences of the 
developments with the FCA and agreed to 
the termination of the merger agreement. 
Accordingly, the acquisition of Plus500 did 
not proceed. 
Playtech did not incur any financial penalties 
with respect to the termination of the 
acquisition of Plus500. Playtech still holds 
9.9% of Plus500 which was acquired during 
the offer process and has no immediate 
plans with respect to this holding.
Ava Trade
Prior to the acquisition by Playtech, Markets 
Limited had secured an option to acquire 
Ava Trade, an online B2C CFD broker. In July, 
Playtech announced that it had acquired 
Ava Trade for $105m, subject to regulatory 
approvals. 
Having already received approval from the 
Financial Services Commission in the British 
Virgin Islands, the Central Bank of Ireland 
(‘CBI’) opposed Playtech’s acquisition of Ava 
Trade, a decision which Playtech formally 
challenged. 
The appeal was allowed by the Irish Financial 
Services Appeals Tribunal, with the consent 
of the CBI, on the grounds of error in the 
CBI’s decision-making process. The appeal 
therefore succeeded. In these circumstances, 
the matter was remitted to the CBI for 
reconsideration and a new decision.
However, although the application 
was referred back to the CBI for further 
consideration, the proposed acquisition  
of Ava Trade had already been terminated 
by the sellers and so Playtech withdrew  
its application, bringing the process to  
a conclusion.
Playtech did not incur any financial  
penalties other than forfeiting the $5m  
non-refundable deposit already paid by 
Playtech on the signing of the acquisition.
Current trading and outlook
Average daily revenue in the Gaming 
division for the first 53 days of Q1 2016 was 
up over 12% on Q1 2015 (18% at constant 
currency) and up over 2% on Q4 2015 (7% 
at constant currency) mainly due to growth 
across the business including improved 
commercial terms and new customers  
in Asia. 
Markets Limited has seen a strong start to 
2016 driven by strong volatility with positive 
momentum from direct business following 
improvements to business model.
The momentum in the business and the 
strength of our pipeline gives me confidence 
in strong growth in 2016 with stronger 
growth in the Gaming division offsetting 
lower growth in the Financials division.
Mor Weizer
Chief Executive Officer
25 February 2016
Review of 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
28     |     Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015  Beach Life player surfs  
up £3.7m jackpot win
In July 2015, Playtech announced  
that a UK player had surfed his way  
to a massive £3.7m online progressive 
jackpot win on Playtech’s Beach Life 
slot game – the second largest of its 
kind in the company’s 16-year history.
The five-reel slot game is one of Playtech’s most 
popular in-house titles and holds the record for  
the company’s largest ever Jackpot win of £4.4m  
in February 2012.
The jackpot winner, username ‘Hilton’, was  
playing 50p per line, or £10 per spin, on bgo.com 
and unlocked five sunshine symbols to reveal  
the colossal sum. The prize is a gigantic 379,904 
times the player’s stake and 142 times the  
average UK salary.
Read more at www.playtech.com
Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015     |     29
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
