 “We are delighted to report record 
results, with pre-tax profit up 22.5%
and net assets up 18.0%.” RESULTS
The Board of Belhaven is delighted to report another set of record
results, comfortably ahead of market expectations, with excellent
progress having been achieved in both of our operating divisions.
Pre-tax profit increased by 22.5 per cent from £14.23 million to
£17.43 million in the 53 week period to 3 April 2005. Turnover was
up 20.5 per cent from £94.96 million to £114.44 million.
Earnings per share increased by 17.5 per cent from 37.2p to 43.7p
despite the dilutive impact of the additional equity which was raised
in July 2003. The effective tax rate in the period was 25.6 per cent
(2004: 29.0 per cent).
Belhaven has now achieved increased sales and operating profits
for fifteen consecutive years.
DIVIDENDS
The Board recommends a final dividend of 8.00p per share, making
a total of 12.35p for the year, an increase of 10.3 per cent on the
dividend of 11.20p for the previous year. The dividend is covered
3.5 times. The final dividend will be paid on 1 August 2005 to
shareholders on the register on 1 July 2005.
INVESTMENT
Capital expenditure in the financial year, net of disposals,
amounted to £29.66 million (2004: £28.82 million). Of this total
£25.71 million was invested into the expansion and development
of the pub estate. Further details of the pub estate are included in
the Chief Executive’s Review (page 8, table 2).
PUB ESTATE REVALUATION
In accordance with the provisions of FRS15, the Board instructed
Graham & Sibbald, 18 Newton Place, Glasgow, G3 7PY, to conduct
a valuation of the Group’s pub estate as at 3 April 2005. The estate,
which was previously valued by Graham & Sibbald at 30 March
2003, has been valued at £141.37 million which represents a
surplus over book value of £4.43 million. This surplus has been
credited to revaluation reserve in the balance sheet.
NET ASSETS AND GEARING
In the 53 week period the net assets of Belhaven have risen by
18.0 per cent from £80.41 million to £94.88 million, after
incorporating the pub estate revaluation surplus. Gearing at the
end of the year was 54.9 per cent (excluding trade loans sold on
to the Bank of Scotland), compared to 46.0 per cent at the start
of the financial year. Interest cover was 6.7 times, more than twice
our bank covenant of 3 times.
BANKING FACILITIES
Since the balance sheet date, revised banking arrangements have
been agreed with the Bank of Scotland with whom we have
enjoyed a close business relationship over many years. Full details
of these arrangements, which provide the Group with ample
headroom in the funding required for our expansion programme,
are disclosed in the Financial Review on page 16.
At the present time we have hedged our interest rate risk on
£20 million of our borrowings, over periods of between six and
eighteen months.
INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS
With effect from financial year to 2 April 2006, the Group’s financial
statements will be prepared in accordance with International
Financial Reporting Standards. Currently, we report in accordance
with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP).
Ron Robson deals with the material points of difference in the
two sets of guidelines, insofar as we believe that they will affect
Belhaven’s accounts, in the Financial Review on page 17.
REGULATORY ISSUES
In common with many other industries, the Scottish licensed trade
is subjected to increasing regulation with new laws and guidelines
emanating from Brussels, Westminster, Holyrood and from many of
the 32 licensing boards in Scotland.
The most potentially impactful changes which we require to
address are the proposed ban on smoking in licensed premises in
Scotland with effect from April 2006 and the reform of Scottish
licensing law which is not expected to be implemented until
2007 at the earliest.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
Angus Meldrum
Chairman “Belhaven has a clear strategy which 
has been consistently and effectively 
applied for many years.” Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
THE FUTURE
Belhaven has a clear strategy which has been consistently and
successfully applied for many years; our primary objective remains
to grow our position of importance in the Scottish licensed trade,
within the framework of an integrated regional brewer.
Despite the uncertainty inevitably created by the proposed ban on
smoking in licensed premises in Scotland, we remain confident that
our strategy will continue to deliver success for the business and all
its stakeholders. We will be adapting our pub estate to optimise our
position within the context of the new regulatory framework.
The financial results of Belhaven over the past fifteen years
underline the wisdom of our strategy and the consistency of
performance which has become the hallmark of the Group. There
is no doubt that one of the strengths of this business is the ability
of the management team.
Angus Meldrum
Chairman
6 June 2005 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Please refer to pages 13 to 15 where our executive management
team give their views on the opportunities and threats to our
business as a result of regulatory change.
BOARD CHANGES
Chris Greig retired from the Board on 16 July 2004 after serving
nine years as a non-executive Director including four as Chairman
of the Group. I succeeded Chris as non-executive Chairman on that
date and I would like to thank my colleagues for their help in
making the change as seamless as possible.
On behalf of all Belhaven shareholders, directors and employees I
extend our gratitude to Chris for his valuable input to the Board
over these nine years. His advice was always wise, prudent and
pertinent and he left Belhaven with our respect and appreciation.
David Morrison, who was Belhaven’s Group Finance Director since
the Company was floated in 1996, retired from the business on the
last working day of the financial year.David has given outstanding
service to Belhaven over a period of some twenty seven years, in
two spells, and I thank him for his pivotal contribution to the
evolution of Belhaven during that time. I send best wishes to David,
and his partner Suzanne, for a long, happy and healthy retirement.
I extend a warm welcome to David’s successor as Group Finance
Director, Ron Robson who joined the Group on 28 February 2005
and was appointed to the Board on 4 April 2005. I am confident
Ron will play a key role in the management of Belhaven for many
years to come.
PEOPLE
The Board wishes to thank staff at all levels of the Group for the
skill, commitment, dedication and tenacity which they consistently
display in the conduct of Belhaven’s business. These qualities
continue to underpin the success of the Group.
