 Chief Executive’s Business Review
For the year ended 31 December 2015
The success of the Group’s integrated multi-service 
multi-product communications offering on a global basis 
continues to drive the growth at Porta. All aspects of the 
Group covering financial, corporate, consumer public 
relations, public affairs and research together with the 
multi-media creative communications agency are 
increasingly pitching together with very encouraging results. 
This is reflected in the 39 percent growth in gross profit (fee 
income) to £26.9 million but more importantly the organic 
growth of 14 percent (stripping out first time contributions 
from acquisition) was considerably higher than the low single 
figure average for the sector.
Reported EBITDA
1
 at nearly £1.1 million after all costs is 
nearly five and a half times higher than the £196k of 2014 
maintaining the outstanding trend seen over the last four 
years. Exceptional costs continue to reduce in the absence 
of any start-up costs, while the level of reorganisation costs 
reflecting the closure of unprofitable offices and teams, is 
expected to be much lower in the current year. Operating 
cash flow of £1.3 million in the year was positive for the first 
time since the formation of Porta.
In just over four years we have built a very exciting 
integrated business platform that will fuel continued growth 
in the Group. Our reputation is growing in the market place 
to the extent that we are attracting some of the best talent 
in our industry which augurs well for the future. 
Communications
In the UK the acquisition of PPS at the end of 2014 gave 
Newgate access to a network of regional offices in 
Aberdeen, Bristol, Cardiff, Edinburgh and Manchester. In 
addition the management team of the enlarged company 
took the opportunity to undertake a strategic review of its 
operations and decided to close its Brussels and Frankfurt 
offices as they lacked critical mass to make an impact in 
these markets and they had been loss making. As part of 
the strategic review, the growth company team was 
completely restructured and fully integrated. The benefits 
from these measures are now starting to flow through. 
Client wins towards the end of 2015 confirmed the success 
of this approach.
The integration of PPS into Newgate was successfully 
completed although it was decided that the PPS name 
should be maintained (at least for the medium term) given 
the strong brand value. Trading at PPS in its first full year 
was in-line with management expectations but more 
encouraging was the number of joint pitches undertaken 
with other parts of the Group.
David Wright 
Chief Executive Officer
The success of the Group’s integrated multi-service 
multi-product communications offering on a global 
basis continues to drive the growth at Porta. In just 
over four years we have built a very exciting integrated 
business platform that will fuel continued growth in the 
Group. Our reputation is growing in the market place to 
the extent that we are attracting some of the best 
talent in our industry which augurs well for the future.
13
“
”
    Our 
Strategy
1
 Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £475,394 gain on WSM acquisition.
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC Outside of the UK Newgate has been particularly strong 
with Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore all enjoying a 
strong trading performance throughout the year.
Newgate Australia, in its second full year, had another 
exceptional 12 months expanding staff levels by around 
30 percent while organic growth in fee income was over 
12 percent and an EBITDA margin of 24 percent. Project 
highlights for the year included advising on the successful 
A$10.2bn long-term lease of power transmission operator 
Transgrid. The sale represented the largest government 
trade sale in Australian history. In addition Newgate 
Australia advised on the biggest infrastructure project in 
Australia, the Sydney Metro Project. The Group is now 
planning to double the size of its Australian operation.
Newgate Hong Kong, another start-up, also had a very 
strong year generating an EBITDA margin of 34 percent. 
The office was appointed to advise on a number of high 
profile contested situations including hedge fund Elliot’s 
proxy battle with Samsung in South Korea. 
Despite a difficult year for the South East Asia economy 
the Singapore office successfully built on the strong 
foundation of 2014, its first full year of operations. The 
corporate communications practice saw rapid growth 
driven by several large new clients in the financial services, 
professional services and real estate sectors. Capital 
markets remained weak throughout the year, although 
the investor relations business still showed growth.
Redleaf in its first full 12 months in the Porta stable 
reported a record year both in terms of fee income and 
profits. Strong growth was recorded across all of its three 
specialist teams, Capital Markets, Professional and 
Financial Services and Property. The success and quality 
of Redleaf was recognised with the agency winning 
Grant Thornton PR firm of the year and Best Adviser 
Financial PR in the KPMG UK Stock Market Awards.
In the current year Porta will be acquiring a further 
15 percent of the Redleaf equity taking its stake up to 
66 percent on terms outlined at the time of the acquisition 
in April 2014. 
On the consumer PR side, Publicasity had a strong year 
under its new management team adding ten new brands 
to its client roster with an impressive conversion rate of 
45 percent. The more noticeable wins included electronic 
cigarette brand Blu, the Caribbean tourist destination of 
St Lucia, and the German appliances manufacturer Bosch. 
13 Communications increased fee income by over 
50 percent, with a number of high profile new business 
wins but produced a loss on the year, albeit substantially 
down on the 2014 figure. Costs have now been brought in 
line with fees and the company is now trading profitably. 
Marketing and Advertising
The multi-capability creative agency 2112 increased fee 
income by 27 percent in the year. BNY Mellon, the largest 
account in the agency, was developed further and 
now represents 30 percent of the agency’s fee income. 
The relationship with Blind Veterans UK, the largest direct 
marketing client, has been particularly strong with the 
Christmas fundraising mailing achieving the best ever results 
in the charity’s history. New business won included 
Henderson Global Investors, Pfizer and Towergate Insurance 
which are now making an impact in the current year. 
Outlook
Although the current year has started well with growth 
ahead of budget in the first quarter a slowdown in project 
work in the UK ahead of the EU Referendum makes it 
difficult to predict the outcome for the next three or four 
months. 
The Board remain confident that organic growth in fee 
income will remain strong, particularly as the planned 
recruitment of a number of high quality executives gains 
momentum, although these inevitably will have some 
impact on the bottom line in the short term.
David Wright 
Chief Executive Officer
2 June 2016
Chief Executive’s Business Review (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2015
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
14
