 Our  
objectives
Performance
Our strategy of developing operational and geographical 
diversity delivered high levels of organic growth combined 
with a positive cash performance. Two metrics stand out: 
gross profit from continuing operations up at almost 
40 per cent to £26.9 million and reported EBITDA
1
 nearly 
5.5 times higher than in the previous year.
In essence, this was an important, pivotal period in which 
we saw the benefits of more internal integration of the 
acquired businesses coupled with cost optimisation 
achieved through a detail revision and revaluation of each 
operational unit. As a result, we saw a significant 
improvement in operating cash inflow at £1.3 million 
compared with an outflow the previous year of £3.4 million. 
A more detailed picture appears later in this report.
There is clear evidence that Porta can continue to sustain 
high levels of organic growth and maintain its positive cash 
performance. Since the company was established in 2011, 
organic growth has averaged 105 per cent, despite some 
underperforming operations. In 2015, for example, the 
client base grew by 231 or approximately 38 per cent to 
836 – testimony to our "buy, build and grow strategy" and 
to the talent of our people. 
The arrival of Steffan Williams, as Group Managing Director, 
and the appointment of Gavin Devine, as Chief Operating 
Officer, has increased the focus on organic growth from 
existing operations while freeing management resources 
elsewhere to focus on strategic expansion.
As I write this report, the forthcoming Brexit vote looms 
large and this has certainly meant some temporary 
slowdown in several industries we service in the UK 
economy. Nevertheless, the Board is confident that it has 
established a strong platform with an operational structure 
and international footprint across strongly performing 
markets and is well placed to take advantage of its unique 
positioning in marketing and communications services. 
The Board and Governance
Membership of the board has been refreshed and during 
the year Steffan Williams joined us as a Group Managing 
Director. Steffan brings substantial experience working within 
the field of strategic communications both in the UK and 
internationally. The Board continued to be active and efficient 
during the year, assessing the opportunities presented by 
management and assisting in the strategic direction of the 
Group and by referring new businesses to Porta companies. 
The overall contribution continues to be invaluable.
During the year the Board focused on the Group’s strategic 
direction and performance. The Board has determined that 
the 2015 Annual Report as a whole is fair, balanced and 
understandable. It provides the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the performance and the strategy 
of the Group.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s Annual General Meeting will be held at 
11:00am on 30 June 2016 and the Notice of Meeting and 
explanatory notes which accompany this Annual Report 
can also be found on our website.
Our people
Our people are our biggest asset. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank all of our people for their loyalty, 
devotion, passion and the hard work over the past year. 
I would also like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support.
Bob Morton  
Chairman
2 June 2016 
1
 Reported EBITDA in 2014 included £475,394 gain on WSM acquisition.
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2015
Bob Morton 
Chairman
I am pleased to report that 2015 was a hugely productive 
and progressive year for the Porta Group. Our financial results  
for the year clearly demonstrate the further progress that has  
been achieved.
“
”
PORTA COMMUNICATIONS PLC
5
