 04 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder,
I’m delighted to update you on what has been a truly 
transformational year for the Company. In March 2014 
we announced our Capital Refinancing Plan which was 
successfully completed in April 2014. Your Board made 
significant further personal investments in the Company as 
part of the refinancing and I would also like to thank you, 
our shareholders, for your strong support of the plan. Our 
new capital structure provides the platform we need to be 
able to invest in the business in line with our strategy. The 
agreements we reached during the year on the joint ventures 
for Hovis and Knighton Foods also help create a clearer focus 
for the Company as well as unlocking investment for these 
businesses from their respective new ownership structures. 
These important developments helped us compete in what 
has been a very challenging trading environment during last 
year. Competition amongst our retail customers has been 
intense as they respond to structural changes in shopper 
behaviour. Together with low oil prices and benign commodity 
costs, this has led to falling prices and the emergence of food 
price deflation for the first time in 10 years. In addition, 2014 
turned out to be one of the hottest years on record. These 
factors clearly had an impact on our sales, which fell by 4.5% 
in 2014/15 to £767.4m, and also on our share price. 
Despite the challenging environment, I would like to commend 
management on holding the course, continuing to invest in 
our brands and our people and delivering improved sales 
momentum since the second quarter of the financial period, 
particularly during the important Christmas trading period. I 
am greatly encouraged by how our brands and categories are 
responding to the investments we’re making. The successful 
re-launch of Mr. Kipling is a great example, and we are also 
seeing positive results from investment in other brands 
including OXO, Bisto and Homepride. 
The new organisation structure we announced in September 
2014 has been a tremendous catalyst. The creation of fully 
accountable Strategic Business Units for our Grocery and Sweet 
Treats businesses, with new leaders, has generated a new sense 
of energy and momentum behind our categories and brands. 
I’m also confident that the investment we’re making in our new 
International Business Unit will pay off in the future as we identify 
further growth opportunities beyond the UK. 
Being a responsible and sustainable business continues to be at 
the forefront of your Board’ s mind. During the period, the
Company made further improvements to its environmental 
footprint and, importantly, stepped up its focus on nutrition to 
develop more ‘better-for-you’ choices as well as clearer labelling 
and information to help our consumers. As a University trustee 
and engineer, I’m particularly pleased that the Company is 
investing more in developing skills for young people. This is a 
crucial factor for our country’ s future. The Company has taken on 
more apprentices and graduates this past year and is supporting 
exciting new developments in food engineering at Sheffield 
Hallam University. We’re also helping unemployed youngsters 
take the first steps towards finding a job through providing 
pre-employment skills training as part of the Institute of Grocery 
Distribution’ s ‘Feeding Britain’ s Future’ campaign. 
In January 2015, the Board welcomed Richard Hodgson as 
a new non-executive director. Richard has significant food 
retailing experience which is already proving invaluable in 
our discussions. I would also like to thank David Wild for 
his important contribution to the Company’s strategy over a 
number of years. Finally, Charles Miller Smith, who has served 
on the Board since June 2009, has advised the Board that 
he will step down as a director on 1 June 2015. Charles has 
had a very significant and positive impact on the Board over 
a number of years and I would like to thank him for his wise 
counsel and insight in helping to shape the current direction of 
the Company. 
Further details of these changes and the Board’s activities  
in the period are set out in my governance update on  
page 35. 
Finally, I would like to thank each and every one of 
our employees for their significant efforts during this 
transformational year. I was particularly proud that we could 
create an ownership culture by awarding 500 shares to all of 
our employees. Aligning employee and shareholder interests 
is a positive development for the future, allowing everyone to 
benefit in the longer-term success of Premier Foods.
The Board and I are looking forward to the year ahead. Our 
strategy is starting to work as we invest in our brands and 
simultaneously use free cash flows to organically reduce 
net debt. While the trading environment will undoubtedly be 
challenging, we remain as focused as ever on driving value for 
our shareholders. Thank you for your continued support.
David Beever 
Chairman
18 May 2015
I am greatly encouraged by 
how our brands and categories 
are responding to the 
investments we’re making.”
David Beever 
Chairman Strategic report
In this area of the report you can find out 
how we are creating value as a business, our 
strategic priorities that will guide us and how we 
have performed during the financial period. 
Our strategic 
priorities 
Our strategic priorities describe key 
activities in the financial period around 
Consumers, Brands, Customers, 
People and Costs which advanced our 
strategy of driving category growth.
Read more on pages 12 to 19 
How we manage 
our risks 
Identifying and mitigating risks to the 
delivery of our strategy continues 
to be a key area of focus for the 
Company in the current changing 
market environment and our outlook 
on risks has also evolved following 
our successful capital refinancing.
Read more on pages 26 to 33 
Our  
performance
The operating and financial review 
contains detailed analysis of our 
business performance for the financial 
period as reported in our preliminary 
results announcement in May 2015.
Read more on pages 22 to 25 
Our investment 
strategy is working.”
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
The strategic report on pages 6 to 33 has been approved by the Board of 
directors on 18 May 2015 and signed on its behalf by:
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
05
