 06 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts for the financial period ended 4 April 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Our investment strategy is working
Following our capital refinancing last year we’ve been investing 
behind our strategy to drive category growth. I’m encouraged 
by the progress we’ve made, especially in light of the 
challenging marketplace.
Our investment in new products, marketing, promotions, 
technology, manufacturing infrastructure and, importantly, our 
people is starting to pay off. We’re gaining momentum and I’m 
confident we’ll make further progress in the year ahead.
  How would you characterise the last 15 months for 
Premier Foods?
It’s been a period of investing in our brands and investing in 
our business. After successfully refinancing the Company 
and focusing our portfolio, it was important that we continue 
investing in developing and marketing our brands to put us in 
the best position to drive future growth. I feel we’ve come a 
long way on this journey. In the last six months of the financial 
period we invested over 80% more in marketing our brands 
than in the equivalent prior period and successfully launched 
many new products. We additionally invested in a new, 
more agile business unit structure and in strengthening our 
commercial capabilities in marketing, sales and in innovation, 
which was balanced by trimming other support functions. 
We’ve invested more in Human Resources and developing our 
people strategy.  
  Are you satisfied with the results?
Given a very challenging trading environment, I’m pleased we 
delivered our trading profit of £131m for 2014/15 in line with 
market expectations and although down £8.9m on 2013/14 
we invested an additional £8.0m in consumer marketing in this 
period. Our strategy is starting to work and during the second 
half we gained momentum in sales, volumes and market share 
reflecting the investments we’ve been making. The re-launch 
of Mr. Kipling was a particular highlight. Clearly there is more 
to do and the trading environment remains tough. But I’m 
satisfied with the progress so far.
A reconciliation of statutory numbers (continuing operations) 
to Pro forma can be found on page 30 
  How are you addressing the changing retail 
landscape and the growth of new channels such as 
discounters?
More than two-thirds of our sales are with the major 
supermarkets and as the supermarkets have been adapting 
to changing shopper behaviour, we’ve been supporting them. 
While some commentators have seen the change in shopper 
behaviour as a threat, along with our major customers, 
we also see many opportunities. Many of the things our 
customers are now doing, such as focusing on faster-
moving lines, we’ve also been doing. We’re also capturing 
opportunities in other channels. For instance, we’ve been 
using brands such as Paxo and Bird’s to offer products to 
high street discounters at the right format for this channel. 
And in the convenience channel we’re investing in ways to 
provide different packaging formats and case sizes more 
suited to this channel. We’re also working with our customers 
to strengthen our online sales through bespoke promotions 
and communications.
  How can you go on growing sales in a period when 
food prices are actually falling?
It’s certainly more difficult to grow sales in a deflationary 
environment. Our response has been to focus on driving 
volume and market share through investing in marketing 
our brands and bringing more new products to market, 
particularly in more premium areas. For example, in the 
Flavourings & seasonings category, we’ve been innovating 
with ‘wet stock’ products that encourage consumers to trade 
up to more premium variants such as OXO Herbs & More 
and Bisto Simply casserole pastes. In the coming year we’re 
doing more to capitalise on the consumer preference for 
hob-top cooking with the launch of Sharwood’s Stir Fry Melts 
and Loyd Grossman Pan Melts. Having the right approach 
to promotions is also a key factor and we’ve done a lot to 
improve our promotional efficiency over the last year through 
eliminating less profitable and loss-making promotions. 
  Why are you getting rid of the Power Brand and 
Support Brand distinction?
It was helpful to use this distinction in the early days of our 
recovery to illustrate our focus on the brands with the biggest 
near-term opportunities. As our strategy evolved to a broader 
approach of driving category growth, we’ve been successfully 
investing more in the wider portfolio, including brands such as 
Homepride cooking sauces and Cadbury cakes. These are 
brands with significant potential given the right support. Our 
reporting will therefore change to focus on total branded sales 
which are a better measure of the success of our strategy.  
www.premierfoods.co.uk
Go online to see our latest Mr. Kipling TV ad: Introduction Strategic Report Governance
www.premierfoods.co.uk Stock code: PFD 07
Financial 
Statements
Strategic objective: 
to drive category growth
We’ll achieve this by focusing on our five strategic priorities:
Consumers Brands Customers People Costs
  How will you continue to afford increased 
investment in your brands? Are there more costs 
you can take out of the business to pay for this?
Over the past couple of years we’ve made great strides in 
reducing complexity in the business and lowering our costs. 
We’ve eliminated more than 700 low-margin and slower-
selling SKUs, or product codes, from the portfolio and more 
than halved our supplier base. We’re also working smarter 
as a result of improving our systems and processes. And we 
continue to drive efficiencies in our manufacturing and logistics 
operations through attractive capex payback projects. There 
are always opportunities to do more and we have many 
projects under way to drive even lower costs. For example, 
improving the efficiency of our promotional spend, even by a 
few percentage points, helps free up significant cash to invest 
elsewhere. 
  How are your supplier relationships following 
the media focus on your ‘Invest for Growth’ 
programme?
We’ve always had strong relationships with our suppliers 
which is why the negative media attention was disappointing. 
At the time, I said publicly that we made mistakes in 
implementing some elements of our Invest for Growth 
programme and we changed it accordingly. But the 
programme has been successful overall in helping us halve 
our supplier base and enabling us to develop more strategic 
partnerships with fewer suppliers. Our remaining suppliers 
have benefited as a result, including many small and medium 
sized businesses. The results of anonymous surveys of our 
supplier base show that relationships remain strong and we’re 
working even closer with suppliers now on sharing ideas and 
innovation that can stimulate mutual growth. 
  Is international growth a big opportunity for  
Premier Foods?
There are potentially lots of growth opportunities for our 
brands beyond the UK. I think we’re only scratching the 
surface at the moment. We’re now investing in building a 
stronger International team, in a dedicated business unit, to 
go after these opportunities. Our longer-term strategic focus 
is on scale markets such as China, the United States and 
Australia. But there are plenty of near-term opportunities in 
other markets. For instance we are successfully building a 
stronger business in Ireland.
  With all the changes in recent times, what are you 
doing to engage your employees?
We conducted our first all-colleague survey a couple of years 
ago and will be repeating that in 2015. Based on feedback 
received, we spent a lot of time in the last year developing a 
clearer purpose and values for the business so that colleagues 
better understand the direction we’re heading. We’ve also 
invested time and money in improving our communications, 
upgrading the workplace environment and developing a more 
coherent people strategy. One major initiative was the granting 
of 500 free shares to all colleagues helping us motivate and 
align colleagues with shareholder interests. We’ve also had 
some great new people join us over the last year which is 
helping create positive energy across the business. 
  What is your outlook for the year ahead? Where will 
the Company be in a year’s time?
While it’s encouraging to note the return of volume growth 
to both our categories and the wider grocery market, we 
expect the near term trading environment to be challenging. 
Nevertheless I’m confident that our strategy of investing in 
our brands, innovation and infrastructure is the right one and 
we are seeing increasing evidence that this is starting to pay 
off. Over the coming year, we expect to benefit from lower 
pension deficit contributions and capital expenditure which will 
enable us to significantly reduce our Net debt. The Board is 
firmly focussed on the creation of future value and believes our 
investment strategy, combined with a continued focus on cost 
efficiency, Trading profit delivery and organic de-leveraging 
positions us well for future success.  
Gavin Darby 
Chief Executive Officer
18 May 2015
