 Controlling costs and  
managing operations efficiently 
allows us to manage the business 
effectively in the current period  
of low oil prices
“With a low cost, growing 
production base, Premier  
is well placed to take 
advantage of a future  
recovery in the oil price.” 
Tony Durrant 
Chief Executive Officer
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
22 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW  
535
228
215
89
Indonesia
Vietnam
United Kingdom
Pakistan & Mauritania
Given the macroeconomic backdrop,  
it was important that in 2015, Premier 
remained focused on operational 
delivery and achieving the near-term 
priorities that we set ourselves.
As we move into 2016 there remains 
considerable uncertainty over the 
direction of oil prices. Premier was 
quick to react to the fall in the oil 
price, rationalising our business while 
retaining our core skills and never 
compromising the safety or performance 
of our operations. A low operating 
cost base ensures that we can operate 
effectively through a period of low oil 
prices and positions us well to take 
advantage of any future recovery.
Generating cash flow from our low 
cost, efficient production
Premier delivered a robust production 
performance in 2015, averaging 57.6 
kboepd (2014: 63.6 kboepd), in line with 
expectations and above our market 
guidance of 55 kboepd. This was driven 
by high operating efficiency of 90 per cent 
(2014: 84 per cent) across the Group’s 
assets. The reduction year-on-year 
largely reflects the sale of the Scott  
area production, which contributed  
3.8 kboepd in 2014.
In Asia, our operated Chim Sáo field  
in Vietnam continued to outperform, 
with high levels of operating efficiency, 
good reservoir performance and strong 
control of costs. Singapore’s demand 
for our Indonesian gas remained strong 
and our operated Natuna Sea Block A 
fields captured a market share well in 
excess of contractual allocation. Our 
gas contracts into Singapore generate 
long-term, stable cash flows for the Group, 
and we retain additional productive 
capacity as well as future development 
opportunities to back fill that deliverability, 
which will enable us to benefit from any 
contractual supply shortfall from other 
suppliers or strengthening of Singapore 
demand for our gas. In the UK, all fields 
produced in line with expectations, with 
good production efficiency across the 
portfolio, including Huntington which 
benefitted from an improved CATS 
export availability from April onwards. 
The UK business unit’s performance  
was also aided by the first full year of 
production from the Kyle redevelopment. 
In 2016, we expect Group production  
to be around 65–70 kboepd, reflecting 
some natural decline in our existing 
portfolio, offset by new production 
from the Solan field and a contribution 
from the E.ON UK assets on completion.
At the start of the year Premier set  
itself the goal of materially reducing 
operating expenses across the Group. 
As a result of significant cost saving 
initiatives and the sale of the high  
cost Scott area in the UK, underlying 
operating costs were US$16/boe (2014: 
US$18.5/boe), a reduction year-on-year 
of over US$100 million in absolute terms. 
Cost reduction initiatives have included 
optimising work programmes, reducing 
discretionary spend, sharing services 
with other operators and re-negotiating 
contracts with existing suppliers. These 
initiatives continue and it is anticipated 
that further savings in underlying 
Working interest Entitlement
Production (kboepd) 2015 2014 2015 2014
Indonesia 13.9 14.4 11.9 10.3
Pakistan and Mauritania 10.1 12.9 10.0 12.9
UK 16.7 19.4
1
16.7 19.4
1
Vietnam 16.9 16.9 14.8 15.2
Total 57.6 63.6 53.4 57.8
1 Includes production from Scott area disposed of in December 2014.
Revenue by region (%)
operating costs of 5–10 per cent can  
be achieved in 2016.
As at 31 December 2015 proven and 
probable (2P) reserves, on a working 
interest basis, were 332 mmboe  
(2014: 243 mmboe). The increase 
reflects the booking of 136 mmboe  
in respect of the first phase of the  
Sea Lion field in the Falkland Islands 
following completion of a draft field 
development plan, which more than 
offsets the impact of 2015 production 
and disposals from our reserve base. 
 US$1,067 m
total Group sales revenue
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
23
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Disposals comprised the Block A Aceh disposal at the start of the year and  
the Vette field, sold as part of the sale of our Norwegian business in December.  
These disposals demonstrate our ability to monetise discovered resources as  
part of our strategy of active management of our portfolio.
Proven and probable  
2P reserves
(mmboe)
2P reserves and  
2C contingent resources
(mmboe)
1 January 2015 243 794
Production (21) (21)
Net additions, revisions 140 143
Disposals (46) (176)
Acquisitions 16 18
31 December 2015 332 758
Once fully on-stream, both the Solan 
and Catcher projects will contribute 
materially to our cash flows, given our 
tax advantaged position in the UK.
Progressing future development 
projects, retaining future optionality 
and growth opportunities 
We have continued to mature the 
development plan for the first phase of  
the Sea Lion project in the Falkland Islands 
and the pre-FEED work is now complete. 
The project scope has been modified  
with a lower break even oil price and 
significantly enhanced economics. We 
have begun the FEED exercise alongside 
the set of world class contractors that we 
have selected, and we anticipate this will 
last approximately 18 months. A draft Field 
Development Plan has been completed 
and submitted to the Falkland Islands 
Government, and we have entered into 
new contractual arrangements with our 
Sea Lion partner. The timing of the final 
investment decision remains dependent 
on achieving our target rate of return, the 
oil price outlook at the time, the level of 
cost reductions secured and our ability  
to fund the project without putting our 
balance sheet at risk. It remains our 
intention to seek an additional partner 
ahead of final investment decision. 
In Norway, on the Premier-operated 
Vette project, extensive project re-work 
and market engagement was carried out 
during the course of 2015, generating 
very competitive offers of commercial 
terms from the supply chain. T wo alternative 
development concepts were validated 
but rather than continue to prepare the 
project for a sanction decision, we agreed 
to sell the whole of our Norwegian 
business to Det norske oljeselskap ASA 
in November for US$120 million, realising 
immediate value from the project.
Executing our key sanctioned 
development projects 
In May 2015 we acquired Chrysaor’s  
40 per cent interest in the Solan field  
for no upfront cash consideration, 
removing partner funding concerns and,  
as a result, Premier holds a 100 per cent 
equity interest. First oil on the Solan 
project is expected shortly. This has 
been a challenging project for Premier 
with the commissioning of the platform 
taking longer than planned largely due 
to significantly worse than anticipated 
weather conditions West of Shetlands. 
As a result, costs have been higher and 
first oil is later than originally planned. 
Looking to the future, lessons have 
been learnt and will be applied to future 
projects. Following first oil from Solan, 
our efforts will turn to delivering the 
second pair of wells later in the first half 
of 2016, in order to ramp up production 
at Solan to target plateau production 
of 20–25 kboepd.
Key milestones have been achieved on 
our operated Catcher project during the 
year, and the project is under budget 
and scheduled to deliver first oil in 2017 . 
The subsea installation work planned  
for 2015 was successfully completed  
and fabrication of the critical subsea 
equipment, due to be installed in  
the summer of 2016, is on schedule. 
Initial development drilling has been 
encouraging with good reservoir results, 
and construction of the topside modules 
is progressing well. Construction of  
the FPSO hull was initially slower than 
planned but following actions taken  
by the FPSO contractor to address 
scheduling issues, the sail-away date 
from Singapore for a 2017 field start  
up remains on schedule. 
 US$1.2bn 
cash and undrawn facilities  
at year end
 US$809.5m 
cash flows from operations
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
24 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued  Read more about  
our Strategy on page 26
Refocusing the exploration portfolio 
and success with the drill bit
In 2015, Premier delivered notable 
exploration successes, with important 
discoveries at Zebedee and Isobel Deep 
in the Falkland Islands and additional 
resource potential confirmed at Anoa 
Deep, Indonesia. Post year-end, the 
re-drill of the Isobel/Elaine complex 
confirmed the results of the original 
Isobel Deep exploration well and 
discovered hydrocarbons in additional 
reservoir horizons. The successes in the 
Falklands add significant additional 
resources to the North Falkland Basin, 
providing further potential for future 
phases of development and increasing 
the attractiveness of the Basin to 
Premier and to potential future partners. 
During the year, unsuccessful wells were 
drilled on our acreage onshore Kenya 
and offshore Norway. 
Our Exploration New Ventures team  
has taken advantage of the reduced 
competition for high quality exploration 
acreage in the current environment,  
to replenish our portfolio at low cost  
with minimal near-term commitments, 
focusing on under-explored but proven 
hydrocarbon basins. We were pleased  
to have been awarded two blocks in the 
proven Sureste basin in Mexico’s Round 
1, with our interests carried through the 
initial phase of exploration. At the same 
time, we have continued to divest and 
relinquish non-core exploration acreage. 
Actively managing our asset portfolio
Post the year-end, Premier agreed to 
purchase E.ON’s UK North Sea assets  
for a net consideration of US$120 million 
plus a completion adjustment of US$15 
million, resulting in an aggregate cash 
payment of US$135 million. The proposed 
acquisition significantly enhances our  
core UK business by adding both cash 
generative production and reserves  
and resources at a compelling valuation. 
It adds stable UK gas revenues to the 
portfolio and increases Premier’s presence 
in the Central North Sea, including a stake 
in the producing world class Elgin-Franklin 
asset and related fields. The acquisition 
offers the potential to generate significant 
operating and cost synergies across the 
combined UK North Sea business and 
allows Premier to accelerate the realisation 
of our significant tax assets in the UK.  
The acquisition is a Class 1 transaction, 
requiring approval from Premier’s 
shareholders, banks and US Private 
Placement holders. A circular is expected 
to be issued to shareholders shortly.
During 2015, we completed the sale  
of our interest in Block A Aceh onshore 
Indonesia for US$40 million and our 
Norwegian business for US$120 million. 
These disposals form part of our strategy 
to actively manage our portfolio, disposing 
of non-core assets where we can realise 
appropriate value. In addition, the formal 
sales process for the Pakistan business, 
which was initiated after an unsolicited 
approach, is ongoing. A number of bids 
have been achieved which we continue 
to evaluate.
Financial discipline and balance  
sheet focus
Our strong production performance  
in 2015, together with the benefit of  
our hedging programme and extensive 
cost savings, has enabled the Group to 
deliver strong cash flows from operations 
of US$809.5 million (2014: US$924.3 
million), despite the low oil price during 
the year. The Group is reporting a loss 
after tax of US$1,103.8 million in 2015 
(2014: US$210.3 million loss after tax) 
largely as a result of impairment charges 
of US$558.7 million (post-tax) principally 
on the carrying value of Solan. These 
were due to the impact of the lower 
near-term oil price assumptions used  
in balance sheet tests at the year-end. 
Capital expenditure in 2015 was 
US$1,070.1 million (2014: US$1,195.5 
million). In 2016 we expect this to  
reduce significantly to approximately 
US$700 million, reflecting the reduction 
in committed expenditure now that the 
Solan project is nearing completion.  
In 2017 , committed capital expenditure  
is expected to fall further to approximately 
US$300 million, reflecting primarily 
remaining development expenditure  
on the Catcher project.
The continuing low oil price environment 
has served to highlight the importance 
of maintaining a strong funding position 
and a conservative approach to financing. 
In order to plan and protect our future 
cash flows, we have continued with our 
oil price hedging programme and at the 
year-end we have approximately 30 per 
cent of 2016 production hedged at 
US$68/barrel. The proposed acquisition 
of the E.ON UK assets adds a significant 
hedging position to our portfolio which, 
post completion, means that we maintain 
approximately 30 per cent of the enlarged 
2016 oil entitlement production hedged 
but at US$73/barrel. Approximately  
30 per cent of E.ON’s UK gas production 
is sold forward at an average of 63 pence  
per therm.
We retain significant funding facilities 
with cash and undrawn facilities of 
US$1.2 billion at year-end. During the year 
we renegotiated our principal financial 
covenants with banks and bondholders. 
Ongoing continued compliance with our 
covenants will remain a key priority for 
Premier in 2016 and beyond, with covenant 
headroom in excess of US$900 million at 
year-end. We continue to benefit from 
the flexibility of our funding arrangements 
which are structured on a corporate 
unsecured basis and are not subject to 
any redeterminations. However, if current 
oil prices persist, then a further short-term 
relaxation of our main financial covenants 
may be required. We are actively working 
on a number of mitigating initiatives 
including the proposed acquisition of E. ON’ s 
UK North Sea assets which is materially 
accretive to our lending covenants,  
and we retain strong relationships with 
our lending group, with whom we will 
continue to work closely, as we have 
done throughout 2015.
Looking forward, 2016 will see 
significantly lower capital expenditure as 
the Solan project is completed, while at 
the same time delivering production 
growth. Our aim is to manage the 
business such that we are able to 
maintain the integrity of our production 
assets, continue to execute our Catcher 
development within budget and on 
schedule, protect the optionality  
for future growth in projects such as  
Sea Lion even in the current oil price 
environment and start to deleverage the 
balance sheet as future cash flows allow. 
The acquisition of the E.ON assets in the 
North Sea alongside the rationalisation 
of our portfolio through the sale of our 
Norway position and the proposed sale 
of our Pakistan business will allow us  
to focus on and grow our UK and South 
East Asian asset bases where we have 
competitively advantaged businesses.
Tony Durrant 
Chief Executive Officer
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
25
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
