 We have responded rapidly to 
meet the challenges presented 
by the current oil price 
environment. Longer term, 
our quality asset base stands 
us in good stead
Mike Welton 
Chairman
The industry context
2015 was another challenging year  
for the upstream oil and gas sector.  
The oil price, having started the year 
around US$55/bbl, fell to a low of 
US$36/bbl in December. Post the 
year-end, the price continued to fall, 
reaching a low of US$27/bbl in January. 
This has been driven by a number  
of factors, including the effects of 
significant investment in unconventional 
resources in the USA, OPEC’s strategy 
of pursuing market share over price, the 
anticipated return of Iran to the global 
oil market and concerns around Chinese 
economic growth. While it is generally 
agreed that the oil price will recover 
from current levels, as supply will be 
impacted by the significant reduction  
in capital investment across the sector, 
the timing and full extent of any  
such recovery is difficult to forecast. 
Consequently, 2015 saw the industry 
focus on re-setting its cost base and 
adjusting its expenditure plans in order 
to withstand such an environment. 
Premier’s reaction to the low  
oil price environment
Premier’s focus is to invest in high 
quality production and development 
opportunities, to maintain exposure  
to upside value through selective 
exploration, and to build on our core 
positions through acquisitions when the 
market conditions allow. In the current 
oil price environment, the Board’s 
priority has been to take measured 
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
08 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT actions to reset business plans to meet 
near-term priorities. Cost and capital 
discipline remain key to ensuring we  
are well placed to deliver maximum value  
from our existing production and current 
sanctioned developments, Solan and 
Catcher, as well as preserving the option 
for long-term growth through our Sea 
Lion project. Exploration activities in 
2016 will be reduced, whilst retaining  
in Brazil, Mexico and the Falklands the 
potential for material value creation in 
future years.
In this environment, Premier has been 
able to capture sustainable savings in 
operating costs, defer discretionary 
capital expenditure and actively manage 
the portfolio. At the same time, Premier 
delivered a good operational performance 
during 2015, with strong production 
across the portfolio, high levels of 
operating efficiency and declining 
operating costs. The Solan development 
project, which has been a challenging 
project since sanction, will achieve first 
oil shortly and the Catcher development 
project is under budget and on schedule 
for first oil in 2017 . 
We have continued to execute our 
strategy of actively managing our asset 
portfolio to ensure our capital and people 
are focused on high returning assets, and 
that our financial position is appropriate. 
The proposed acquisition of E.ON’s UK 
North Sea assets, announced since the 
year-end, is in line with this strategy  
and continues Premier’s track record  
of being able to add long-term value 
through acquisitions in low oil price 
environments. We also disposed of our 
Norwegian business in 2015, realising 
immediate value for the Company from 
long-term asset plays which required 
near-term investment.
We remain focused on managing  
our financial position and achieving  
the highest level of operational and 
safety performance, whilst maintaining 
optionality in the portfolio for future 
growth. During the year, we successfully 
renegotiated our financial covenants 
with our banks and bondholders. Our 
long-term, unsecured debt structure 
and supportive banking relationships 
provide considerable balance sheet 
flexibility. However, if current low oil 
prices persist, then a further relaxation 
of our main financial covenants may  
be required, which we are taking 
pre-emptive action to address.  
The proposed acquisition of E.ON’s  
UK North Sea assets provides a 
significant contribution to current  
cash flow and is materially covenant 
accretive. We retain strong relationships 
with our lending group, and we will 
continue to work closely with them  
as we have done throughout 2015. 
Health, safety and the environment
Health, safety and environmental 
matters continue to be of paramount 
importance to us. We will not compromise 
on the integrity and safety of our 
operations, ring-fencing associated 
expenditure with these areas. We are 
very pleased to be able to report that our 
trend of improved safety performance 
continued in 2015. Our Total Recordable 
Injury Rate stood at 1.27 per million  
man hours, significantly better than our 
target for the year. We are particularly 
proud of our track record on our 
operations in Vietnam and Indonesia 
which, at year-end 2015, had reached 
two and four million man hours 
respectively without a lost work day 
case. Our production operations 
management systems at Balmoral in  
the UK, and at Anoa and Gajah Baru  
in Indonesia, retained their OHSAS  
18001 and ISO 14001 certifications for 
Environmental/Occupational Safety  
and Health Management, as did our 
worldwide Drilling Management 
Systems. In addition, in December,  
our Chim Sáo facility in Vietnam was 
awarded the same accreditation which 
means that all our production and drilling 
operations are now accredited to these 
internationally recognised standards. 
People and governance
The composition of the Board remained 
constant throughout the year with the 
exception of the retirement of Andrew 
Lodge, Exploration Director, in June. 
Premier continues to comply in full  
with all aspects of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and attaches the 
highest importance to corporate 
governance matters. During the year 
we strengthened a number of areas  
of corporate governance including  
the Board’s succession planning and 
evaluation of the appropriate skills, 
knowledge and experience required 
for future Board appointments. Further 
details of the Board’s activities this year 
can be found in the Corporate Governance 
section of this Annual Report.
On behalf of the Board, I would like 
once again to express my appreciation 
for the hard work and effort put into 
the business by Premier’s staff. Their 
continued dedication and enthusiasm 
in what are trying times for the industry 
should see us well placed amongst our 
peers to prosper in the future.
Shareholder returns 
Our goal remains to deliver long-term 
capital growth to our shareholders.  
Over the course of 2015, our share  
price fell by 70 per cent, as the whole  
of the sector suffered from the fall in 
commodity prices. As we enter 2016 
with the potential for a prolonged 
period of lower oil prices, our focus  
is on maintaining access to liquidity, 
lowering our cost base and taking action 
to allow us to reduce balance sheet  
debt once we have completed our 
sanctioned development projects. 
Well positioned for future growth
The oil industry is cyclical and few  
believe that the oil price will not recover 
from the current low levels as it has 
done in the past. Significant levels of 
capital investment across the industry 
have been deferred or cut back, which 
will impact future production and 
ultimately lead to a revival in the oil 
price. Our portfolio of 758 mmboe  
of reserves and resources remains a 
valuable asset and a basis for future 
growth. In the meantime, we are 
managing our business to withstand  
lower oil prices and I am confident  
that we will emerge from the current 
down cycle a leaner, more efficient 
organisation, in better shape to deliver 
future shareholder value.
Mike Welton 
Chairman
Premier Oil plc // 2015 Annual Report and Financial Statements
09
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
