 08 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Chief Executive’s Report
Potential for  
further growth.
The 2014 crop was high yielding,  
with total UK production of 5.74m 
tonnes compared to 5.58m tonnes  
in 2013 and 4.49m tonnes in 2012.  
In addition, the volatility and decline 
in fresh produce volumes through 
the major retailers has continued to 
impact overall volumes, albeit that 
this trend is now showing signs of 
slowing and indeed we are now 
seeing some growth. 
As a consequence of the high yielding  
crop and lower volume of sales, supply  
was therefore much greater than demand. 
This resulted in much lower free buy prices  
for potatoes for most of the season which  
has led to price pressure across most of  
our customer base. This has resulted in  
total turnover for the Group of £178.4m,  
compared to £191.8m for the previous year.
2014 was an exceptionally good growing 
season producing a large crop of potatoes, 
which, when combined with a roll forward  
of 2013 production and falling demand 
resulted in one of the weakest potato markets 
witnessed for many years. The pressure this 
placed on the whole supply chain was 
significant and returns to growers in most 
cases fell way short of sustainable levels. 
However, with a fresh, perishable product such 
as potatoes it is vital to ensure that the crop 
does find a market and is moved before 
quality deteriorates to such an extent that 
renders the crop worthless. To enable this to 
happen, tough decisions were made on raw 
material pricing which put pressure on the 
grower base for much of the season. The  
good news however, is that the crop has been 
moved and the sector now looks to have a 
more balanced supply and demand status  
and therefore improved pricing. Without 
quality growers our business would not 
function and I would like to record my 
gratitude to the grower base for their ongoing 
support of the business throughout such  
a difficult season. Likewise the staff who 
manage the grower relationships and have  
to conduct these difficult negotiations, they 
have performed admirably in some very 
challenging situations. 
In May 2014 the Group acquired The Jersey 
Royal Company Limited which grows, markets 
and supplies early season Jersey Royal 
potatoes into a number of UK retailers. 
Integration plans are almost complete  
and a number of initiatives have been 
implemented with a view to making the 
business more efficient and reducing cost.  
The 2015 growing season produced a high 
quality crop and we had a very good start to 
the season. However, the cooler than average 
start to the summer impacted demand and 
therefore volume as consumers continued to 
buy main crop potatoes at the expense of 
Jersey Royals. However, we remain very 
confident about the future prospects of the 
business and the strategic rationale of the 
deal remains sound as it strengthens the 
Group’s product offering and also gives the 
Group greater control and influence over  
the early season potato market.
On 13 May we announced that Swancote 
Foods, our processing business experienced a 
contamination issue relating to traces of metal 
being found in some of our product. Working 
in collaboration with our affected customers 
this resulted in a recall of a number of potato 
salad and ready meal products. The metal 
contamination resulted from the failure of an 
augur in one of our blanchers, which was not 
subsequently picked up by detection systems 
and processes further down the supply chain. 
GreenVale
Branded potato
The brand brings together a unique 
packaging concept and great tasting 
variety, which attracts new customers 
to the category. Consumer feedback 
remains extremely positive with 
repeat purchase measures continuing 
to impress. We remain excited and 
committed about building the brand 
credentials and proposition in the 
years ahead.
Strategy in Action Directors’ Report Financial Statements Overview Strategic Report
09 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Greenvale AP
A year of two halves 
The first half year was impacted by an  
over-supplied market and with falling  
retail volumes led to deflationary pressure. 
However the second half year has seen an 
improvement in the volume decline and  
a better overall performance. 
Greenvale AP (GVAP) is a unique vertically integrated business.  
This starts with our seed variety and development programme  
and also includes our seed potato business and our own growing 
potato operations in Perthshire, the Scottish Borders and the 
Eastern Counties, making us the biggest grower of fresh table 
potatoes in the UK. GVAP procures from circa 200 growers in the 
UK, most of whom we supply seed to, and along with the potatoes 
from our own growing operations, provide our pack sites with the 
material to store, manage and pack for our key customer base  
364 days of the year.
Strategy in Action
The growing cycle  
starts with top quality  
seed production nearly  
12 months in advance.
Planting of the ware  
crop takes place from  
February to April.
From June to September  
the crop is harvested into  
wooden boxes and taken  
to the farm.
Nearly 250,000 tonnes 
of potatoes are distributed 
every year.
The crop is quality 
controlled by eye to remove 
any unwanted potatoes 
before packing.
It takes about 7 months to  
grow a field of main crop potatoes.
The crop is sprayed to control 
weeds and guard against pests.
The crop requires a lot of water  
to help it grow.
From seed to table 
An illustrative timeline
1
2
3
4
5
6 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5 10
Restrain
Another year of growth 
with increased turnover, gross 
margin and profitability. Both new 
market and product expansion 
continue to facilitate growth.
The principal activity of the Company is the sale, 
lease and marketing of the Restrain system for  
the production and maintenance of a stable 
atmosphere of ethylene within potato and onion 
stores for sprout suppression and seed potato 
management. The system continues to provide the 
only residue free solution for sprout suppression in 
stored onions and potatoes in the UK, Europe and 
other territories across the world. Sales outside the 
UK continue to grow and the potential for growth 
in both new markets and products continue to be 
explored with management excited and confident 
about the future.
Strategy in Action 11 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Directors’ Report Financial Statements Overview Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Report 
(Continued)
We continue to work with our insurers and our 
affected customers and the potential financial 
impact is still being analysed. We believe  
the financial impact will be in the range of 
£300,000 to £1.5 million, but, due to this lack 
of certainty, have not accounted for this cost 
in the current year. This figure will be finalised 
when discussions are complete and recognised 
as an exceptional cost in next year’s financial 
statements. At the time of writing we have 
installed a temporary solution whilst we await 
the delivery and final installation of a new 
blancher. We have subsequently changed  
a number of processes and are working  
closely with our affected customers to  
restore full supply and regain confidence.
I am pleased to report that Restrain Company 
Limited, our ethylene storage and ripening 
business, continues to go from strength to 
strength. Turnover and profitability continue 
to grow through the increased number of 
systems that are on lease both in the UK  
and abroad. The system continues to provide 
the only residue free solution for sprout 
suppression in stored onions and potatoes.  
In addition we continue to seek opportunities 
for the storage and ripening of new products 
and expansion into new markets across the 
World and we are very excited about the 
potential for growth. 
It is also pleasing to highlight that we have 
had another very successful year growing, 
picking and supplying daffodils from our  
Rowe Farming business, based in Cornwall.  
It is worth stressing that all of these daffodils 
are picked by hand, sometimes during some 
fairly challenging climatic conditions from 
January through to April. In addition to the 
flower business Rowe Farming also grow  
and supply early season potatoes to a number 
of packers across the UK and I am happy  
to report that this season’s crop has hit its 
marketing window, is of a better quality and 
has achieved much improved prices compared 
to the prior year.
With the closure of our Tern Hill facility in 
August 2014 and a number of investments 
made at our remaining packing sites we have 
improved operational efficiencies, with an 
improvement in man hours per tonne of over 
9% from January 2015 compared with the 
same period last year. This will remain a key 
focus as we continue to align capacities  
with demand against some fairly volatile 
market conditions.
Our branded fresh potato, GreenVale, 
continues to build momentum. The brand 
brings together a unique packaging concept 
and great tasting variety, which attracts new 
customers to the category. While the brand is 
under threat of delisting in one core customer 
(irrespective of its outstanding performance) 
we remain committed about building the 
brand credentials and proposition in the 
coming years and expect to gain new retail 
distribution points in the coming months.
Operations remain cash generative and  
at the year end, total net debt stood at 
£20.7m compared to £24.5m last year  
as we continue to pay down debt. We have 
continued to invest in our sites to improve 
efficiencies and facilitate the closure of Tern 
Hill, with total capital expenditure in the  
year of £5.8m compared to £6.5m last year. 
This re-alignment of our total operational 
capacities and the resultant improvement  
in operating efficiencies should ensure the 
Group remains competitive for the future.
As the Chairman noted, the growing 
conditions experienced so far with the low 
summer temperatures would point to an 
average yielding crop of reasonable quality.  
In addition estimates for the planted area of 
potatoes indicate a reduction of circa 8% 
compared to last year. Whilst it is still early, 
and therefore difficult to predict, we would 
expect prices for non-contracted free buy 
potatoes to remain strong as the season 
progresses. During the course of the last 
financial year we have been working closely 
with one of our core retail customers to create 
a supply chain model that is closer aligned to 
the prevailing market conditions in any given 
season. As a result of these discussions we are 
now expecting a reduction of market share, as 
of July 2016, from circa 40% to a minimum of 
25 % of the customer’s core retail volume. 
Whilst this reduction in volume is clearly a 
disappointment, we are pleased that we have 
been awarded a three year agreement at a 
fixed margin and this is a major step forward 
for the business, reducing the impact of crop 
value fluctuations on company performance. 
Further the Group has retained 100% of this 
customer’s organic supply and has increased 
its supply of the Jersey Royal potatoes for the 
2016 season onwards to 100% . 
With this reduction in volume I can confirm 
that the company is currently reviewing its 
packing facilities, aligning capacity to  
forecast sales and therefore ensuring that  
the business remains efficient and cost 
competitive. This review is also taking into 
consideration proximity of grower base and 
procurement requirements and may well lead 
to the closure of the company’s Kent based 
packing facility, subject to the outcome of 
consultation. The consultation period is 
expected to be completed in late November. 
The changing retail environment will no doubt 
continue to create an even more competitive 
marketplace with the pace of change not 
expected to abate.
We firmly believe that, following the recent 
acquisitions coupled with the rationalisation 
of our fresh packing sites, that we are in a 
much stronger position to deal with these 
external pressures. The Board and the 
management team remain confident that 
Produce Investments is well positioned to 
grow organically and to take advantage  
of any acquisition opportunities that might  
arise in the future.
Angus Armstrong 
Chief Executive 
