 02 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Greenvale AP Rowe Farming The Jersey Royal Company 
Uniquely vertically integrated  
potato business
Unique vertically integrated business 
comprising seed variety and development, 
seed growing storage and production, fresh 
potato growing, and fresh potato storage,  
packing, distribution and marketing.
Daffodils & potatoes
Rowe Farming based in Cornwall, grows and 
markets early season UK baby new and salad 
potatoes and grows and markets daffodil 
flowers and bulbs in the UK and overseas.
First new season potatoes
The Jersey Royal Company grows and markets 
early season Jersey Royal potatoes to most of 
the major UK retailers. 
Produce Investments at a Glance
Leading the way in the 
UK potato industry. 
Produce Investments 
plc is a leading operator 
in the fresh potato and 
daffodil sectors.
 
The Produce Investments Group has a number of businesses located across 
the UK and the recent acquisitions of Rowe Farming in 2012 and The Jersey 
Royal Company Limited in 2014 compliment and add strength and diversity 
to the Group. In addition 22% of our seed revenues come from overseas,  
and sales of Restrain, our ethylene storage and ripening business, are 
growing outside the UK.
The Group has operations throughout the UK 
in seed production, growing and packing and 
serves a number of market sectors including 
retail, foodservice, wholesale and trading. 
The Group is split into three segments:
1. Fresh which comprises, Greenvale AP , Jersey 
Royal Company Limited, Rowe Farming and 
The Kent Potato Company Limited and 
accounts for 82.9 % of Group revenues. 
Customers include a number of the UK 
leading grocery retailers and wholesale  
and foodservice companies. 
2. Processing which accounts for 3.7% of 
Group revenues. Ingredients supplied  
are used by a large number of food 
manufacturers in products such as diced 
potato salads and mashed potato for fish 
cakes and ready meals.
3. Other includes the seed business, Restrain 
Company Limited and direct trading and 
accounts for 13.4 % of group revenues. The 
seed business exports around 25 % of total 
production with the balance sold mainly to 
our fresh grower base. Revenues for Restrain 
are growing internationally with 69% now 
originating from outside the UK. 
70.5% of Group revenue 5.3% of Group revenue 10.9% of Group revenue 03 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Directors’ Report Financial Statements Strategic Report Overview
1
2
3
4
6
5
7
Restrain
Ethylene storage & ripening
The Restrain system provides the only residue 
free solution for sprout suppression in stored 
potatoes and onions in the UK, Europe and 
other territories across the world. The Restrain 
technology is now developing in other produce 
sectors such as the enhanced ripening of fruits. 
Swancote Foods The Kent Potato Company 
Additive free cooked potato ingredients
Swancote provides a number of food 
ingredient manufacturers in the UK with 
additive-free cooked potato products as well 
as raw potato ingredients. 
Fresh potato packing
The Kent Potato Company is located in the 
“Garden of England” to source and pack 
locally grown fresh potatoes and supplies a 
number of retail and foodservice customers.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Geographic diversity
The map shows the location of our sites across the UK.  
Our business is geographically spread throughout the UK 
ranging from our seed business in Perthshire , our main 
retail pack sites in the Scottish Borders  and Cambridgeshire 
 which are ideally located within close proximity to two of 
the main potato growing areas in the UK. Our processing 
business, Swancote Foods  is located in Shropshire, with 
Rowe Farming  based in Cornwall and the Kent Potato 
Company  based at St-Nicholas-At-Wade, with The Jersey 
Royal Company  located in Jersey.
Greenvale AP seed business, Burrelton, Perthshire
Greenvale AP pack site, Duns
Greenvale AP pack site, Floods Ferry
Swancote Foods, Shropshire
Rowe Farming, Cornwall
Kent Potato Company, Kent
Jersey Royal Company, Jersey
1.2% of Group revenue 3.7% of Group revenue 8.4% of Group revenue
