 07 PRODUCE INVESTMENTS ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 201 5
Directors’ Report Financial Statements Overview Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Satisfactory performance  
against challenging conditions.
Against a backdrop of highly 
challenging market conditions,  
the Group has delivered a robust 
performance in the year to 
27 June 2015. 
The much-documented retailer price wars 
triggered significant pricing pressure 
throughout the entire supply chain, resulting  
in value and volume decline over the past 
18 months, although the rate of decline has 
slowed considerably in recent months. This 
coincided with an exceptional growing season 
in 2014 resulting in high yields for potatoes 
generating a large over-supply of crop and 
resultant deflationary pressures. As we 
reported on 26 March, the combination  
of these factors has had a significant impact 
on results, with the first half of the financial 
year particularly affected, resulting in a fall  
in operating profit versus last year. I am 
pleased to report that results have improved 
in the second half year resulting in an 
operating profit for the year of £8.04m  
(2014: £11.13m).
Produce has already taken steps to mitigate 
the impact of these market fluctuations.  
The closure and subsequent sale for £2.0m  
of the Tern Hill packing facility and the 
consequent rationalisation of the remaining 
packaging operations has resulted in major 
improvements to the overall efficiency of the 
Group. Furthermore, Produce’s management 
team is working closely with its core retail 
customers to create a supply chain model that 
is more aligned to prevailing market conditions 
in any given season, thereby reducing the 
impact of any variations in crop on the 
Group’s financial performance.
Dividend
While the market is expected to remain 
challenging, the Directors are confident about 
the Group’s prospects for the coming year  
and are pleased to announce an increase  
in the final dividend to 4.775 pence per share 
(2014: 4.55 pence), when combined with the 
interim dividend of 2.39 pence per share 
(2014: 2.275 pence) results in a total dividend 
for the year of 7.165 pence per share 
(2014: 6.825 pence per share). The final 
dividend will be paid on 3 November 2015  
to ordinary shareholders on the register at 
close of business on 16 October 2015.
Board changes
I would like to take this opportunity to 
welcome Neil Davidson to the Board of 
Directors. Neil brings with him a wealth of 
experience having worked in the agri-food 
sector for over 30 years. He has held a number 
of senior positions including Chief Executive  
of Arla Foods and was recently appointed  
a non executive director of WM Morrison 
Supermarkets plc. He was awarded a CBE in 
2006, for his services to the dairy industry.
Outlook
Looking to the year ahead, although 
recognising we are only circa 60% of the way 
through harvesting, our best estimates for the 
current year’s crop would indicate average 
yields and a reasonable quality. We expect the 
supply of crop to be more aligned to demand 
with pricing therefore reflecting this more 
balanced market. We also expect the retail 
environment to remain fiercely competitive as 
the market continues to evolve with continued 
competition from the Discounters, and ever 
changing consumer shopping habits. However 
the recent acquisitions and site rationalisation, 
coupled with our strong business model, puts 
Produce in a more robust position to handle 
these pressures. Consequently the Board 
remains confident that Produce is well 
positioned to grow organically and to take 
advantage of any acquisition opportunities. 
Given the performance of the Group against  
a backdrop of very challenging conditions,  
I would especially like to express my sincere 
thanks to all employees of the Group who 
have helped to contribute to these excellent 
results for the year.
Barrie Clapham 
Chairman
