 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 04
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Introduction
Having joined Punch in June 2015, my first priority was to get 
around the business and spend time listening to our publicans, 
employees and other key stakeholders. My arrival as CEO has 
provided the Board and me with an opportunity to review and 
stress test our strategic priorities. Given the changing market 
dynamics, this is of particular importance and I set out below 
the key elements of how the strategy will be deployed to move 
the business forward.
What I have set out today is very much aligned with the strategy 
the business is already pursuing, but with some refinements  
and developments to unlock opportunities within the business 
and manage an evolving operational and changing regulatory 
market.
Strategic review
A summary of the review findings are below:
•	 Pubs remain an attractive market with great potential. 
Going to pubs continues to be one of the most popular  
leisure activities in the UK. In 2014, the UK pub industry  
had estimated annual sales of approximately £22bn and 
directly employed an estimated 750,000 staff. Despite the 
challenges faced by the industry, there are some clear growth 
opportunities and I have seen many examples where we  
have been able to materially grow a pub’s sales when we 
implement the right consumer offer that meets today’s 
consumer trends.
•	 Punch needs to modify its proposition in light of 
legislative changes and to maximise the opportunity 
from changing consumer trends. While Punch has in recent 
years been at the forefront of change within the leased and 
tenanted pub sector, the market is changing rapidly and 
Punch will need to adapt further to meet the needs of this 
evolving marketplace. 
•	 We can achieve significant benefits in this new 
environment by deploying more than one operating 
model. Running a pub continues to be seen as an attractive 
proposition for many entrepreneurs and we typically receive 
25 enquiries to every one publican being placed in a pub.  
A broader range of operating models is required to 
appropriately meet the level of skills, support and financial 
position of the wide range of prospective publicans applying 
to run one of our pubs. Providing a broader range of 
operating models will allow us to maximise the value in  
each and every one of our pubs.
•	 A significant proportion of the estate could deliver 
higher returns through investment. Alongside setting  
the right consumer offer, providing an appropriate level  
of investment is key to maximising the returns in our pubs.  
A significant proportion of our estate could benefit from 
investment, with investment being prioritised to those pubs 
where we have control over the consumer offer, and to new 
investments with a payback of less than five years in England 
and Wales.
Duncan Garrood
Chief Executive Officer
“ Our strategy enables us to 
maximise the value in our 
properties through a phased, 
lower risk approach to addressing 
an evolving pub market, taking 
greater control of the property 
and retail offer, but without the 
added overhead that comes with 
directly employing pub staff. ” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
•	 There is still significant unrecognised value in Punch’s 
freehold property estate. The Group has a sizeable 
property portfolio comprising in excess of 9m sq. ft.  
of ground floor area, significant additional upper floor  
area and encompassing c.1,400 acres of total site area.  
There is a significant portfolio of under-utilised upper  
floor areas and under-utilised land bank.
•	 Punch has the right foundations in its business  
to deliver value for the longer term, but it will  
take time. We have already taken significant steps towards 
evolving our operating model. While we have a lot to do,  
and the year ahead represents the start of a period of 
transition for the business, we are confident in our plans 
going forward, and in our ability to implement our strategy, 
which will maximise the long-term value of our business.
From our review we have a clear set of plans to move  
the business forward:
1. Deliver a clear, consistent consumer offer, adapting  
to changing consumer behaviour;
2. Comprising a broad range of operating models that  
are in line with today’s evolving pub market;
3. Underpinned by a refocussing of management resources  
to drive operational excellence; 
4. Building on an attractive offer, delivering real value to our 
publicans through the Punch Buying Club; and
5. Releasing additional value from our under-utilised property 
portfolio and land bank.
We believe that delivering these levers will help drive sales and 
profit by realising previously untapped growth opportunities in 
an evolving pub market and unlock significant additional value 
from our under-utilised property portfolio.
Development of the Punch model
1.   Consistent consumer offer: 
Over the last few years, Punch’s business has been evolving 
towards a model in which we have greater insight into the 
consumer offer and are best placed to implement a clear  
and consistent strategy going forward. In 2013 we launched 
a dedicated New Business Development team working  
with our publicans from before the launch of their pub  
and throughout the first six months of trading, supporting 
them in executing the consumer offer in the pub. In 2014  
we introduced Retail Operating Plans, setting out the agreed 
consumer offer, operating plan and rhythm of the week  
in our pubs. 
   In recent years, we have also developed and trialled a small 
number of retail concepts, ‘Champs’ sports bar, ‘Mighty 
Local’ community drinks led pub concept, and most recently 
‘Brewed & Baked’, our new high street coffee shop and 
chameleon bar concept. While the first Brewed & Baked 
outlet will open later this month, we have seen excellent 
results from our Champs and Mighty Local concepts which 
now number 6 and 13 outlets respectively with further 
rollouts planned for 2016. 
   The majority of Punch’s core estate (c.84%; c.2,400 pubs)  
is in the drinks led, mainstream and value pub segments. 
Having seen positive results from the early concepts where 
Punch has developed a clear and consistent consumer offer, 
we are now in a position to accelerate our programme of 
developing and rolling-out new concepts. 
   We have a high level of confidence in the upside opportunity 
in rolling-out retail concepts across a meaningful proportion 
of the estate, but have purposely not put a target on how 
many pubs will operate under a defined concept as the  
scale of any roll-out will be determined by their financial 
performance, which is still in the trial phase. There is also the 
potential to franchise these retail concepts at a future date.
   While we are taking a much more active role in defining and 
overseeing the consumer offer in our drinks led mainstream 
and value pub segments, we will take a different approach  
in the premium and destination food led segments which 
accounts for c.16% of the core estate (c.450 pubs). These 
sectors require specialist skills to maximise the opportunity  
in these sites and we will continue to work with specialist 
operators, such as Harry Ramsden’s, the iconic British brand, 
world famous for its fish and chips, and have formed a 
trading partnership within which we will jointly invest in 
selected sites across the Punch estate.
   We have seen significant uplifts in pub sales and profit where 
we have invested, alongside setting the right consumer offer. 
It will take time to implement our strategy however which 
will be phased over a five year period. Investment will be 
directed to those pubs where we have input into the retail 
offer and have control over the terms of the agreement. 
Subject to the above, we plan to invest in up to 500 pubs  
per year, investing between £250m and £300m over the  
next five years.
2.   Broad range of operating models: 
The Group already offers a wide variety of flexible 
commercial agreements to our publicans, with over 
60 different lease and tenancy agreements currently in place.  
In recent years we have seen a significant market shift away 
from long-term fully repairing leases towards shorter-term 
tenancy agreements, where the external building repair 
obligations remain the responsibility of the pub company. 
There has also been a marked shift away from fixed rent 
agreements towards variable turnover linked agreements. 
   We have been quick to address these changing market 
dynamics and have already introduced three new operating 
formats, including the Retail contract, our first managed  
pub, and commercial free-of-tie arrangements (covering  
both fixed-rent and variable turnover-linked agreements).
   Under the Retail contract, Punch retains 100% of the sales 
and cost of sales (akin to a traditional managed house 
operation) and pub costs (excluding staff costs), and pays  
the retailer (the publican) a percentage of the retail sales,  
out of which the retailer pays their staff costs. The retailer is 
free to focus on delivering an excellent consumer experience 
while Punch supports the back-of-house processes.
   As at October 2015, we had 31 pubs operating under  
the Retail contract and have seen significant (15% to 20%) 
volume growth in these pubs compared to historic 
performance under a traditional leased and tenanted model. 
We are pleased with the results from these initial trials and 
already have in place the infrastructure and a separate Retail 
operations team capable of rolling out the model nationally 
across the UK. We anticipate having approximately 100 pubs 
operating under the Retail contract by August 2016.  Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 06
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
   Our first fully managed pub opened in October 2015,  
and while we do not currently anticipate building a significant 
managed pub presence, we will take learnings from a small 
managed pub trial to support the development of new 
consumer offers. 
   We already have a small but growing commercial free-of-tie 
operation with a number of fixed rent commercial free-of-tie 
leases and variable turnover-linked agreements in operation.  
We expect this division to grow over time as we introduce 
new innovative agreements, particularly in the premium  
and destination food led segments of our estate.
3.   Refocussing management resources to drive 
operational delivery:
  To ensure effective delivery of these changes and of the 
separate operating models, we have recently made a number 
of changes to the operating structure of the business with 
distinct divisions:
•	  Tied tenanted & leased division;
•	  Retail pub division (including the managed pub trial); and
•	  Commercial leases (free-of-tie); which will move into 
a separate division managed under the property team.
   Three new roles have also been created to ensure that we 
drive our future success, develop our employer brand and 
really maximise the opportunity from existing and new retail 
formats. These roles are Chief Strategy Officer, Marketing 
Director and Development Director.
4.   Delivering value to our publicans through the 
Punch Buying Club: 
Launched in 2009, the Punch Buying Club has been a great 
success with the vast majority of publicans using the club  
to purchase their drinks products. Punch is one of the largest 
buyers of drinks in the UK on-trade market, delivering 
significant economies of scale not available to individual 
publicans buying drinks on their own. We offer a wide 
range of drinks products through the Punch Buying Club 
to our publicans and during the last year have supplied over 
3,000 drinks brands from 660 drinks suppliers, including 
in the region of 2,500 cask ale brands. 
   Through the Punch Buying Club we leverage our group 
buying power to provide services such as free WiFi and 
provide access to cheaper electricity and gas supply through 
our brokerage service providers. The Punch Buying Club  
is also full of useful information to help our publicans to 
professionally operate their pubs giving access to free 
training, legislative information, marketing materials  
and a legal helpline. In addition, our innovative machines 
performance data, an industry leading service introduced 
earlier this year, is made available for publicans to monitor 
and maximise their machine income performance.
   We have continued to build on the success of the Buying 
Club over the last five years and have plans to further  
develop it over the coming years.
5.   Releasing additional value from our property 
portfolio:
   The Group has a sizeable property portfolio with over 
3,500 properties comprising in excess of 9m sq. ft. of ground 
floor gross area, significant additional upper floor area and 
encompassing c.1,400 acres of total site area.
   Historically the Group has looked to operate its properties 
purely as tenanted and leased pubs. While the principal use 
of our properties moving forward will continue to be that of 
public houses, there is a significant portfolio of under-utilised 
upper floor areas and excess under-utilised land bank.
   Through more active property management we expect  
to be able to release additional value, which is not currently 
recognised in the external property valuation, in our freehold 
property and land estate over the next five years.
In summary, our strategic plan enables us to maximise the 
value in our properties through a phased, lower risk approach 
to addressing an evolving pub market, taking greater control  
of the property and retail offer, without the risk of added 
overhead that comes with directly employing pub staff.
Business review
Punch is a leading operator of leased and tenanted pubs in  
the UK, with the second largest pub estate by number of pubs. 
As at 22 August 2015, the Punch estate comprised 3,588 pubs 
located across the UK, 96% of which were held on a freehold 
or long leasehold basis. 
Our market
The Group operates in the UK pub industry, which itself  
is part of the wider drinking-out and eating-out market.  
The UK pub market, which consists of some 47,000 licenced 
public houses, has had to manage the impact of significant 
changes over the last decade including the smoking ban, 
changing consumer preferences and an increasingly competitive 
landscape. Recent changes in legislation, including the lowering 
of the drink-driving limit in Scotland in December 2014 and  
the implementation of the Market Rent Only option (‘MRO’)  
in England and Wales, which is expected to come into force 
progressively from June 2016, will result in further structural 
changes to the pub market. 
Success for the UK pub sector is being determined by the ability 
to respond, with pace, to the changing market conditions and 
provide offers which deliver great customer experiences and 
value. Aware of the challenges, we have refocused our plans 
and strategy to ensure that we are in the strongest position  
to address the changing needs of the marketplace.
Our business model
We operate a predominantly tenanted and leased pub model 
where our pubs are let to independent publicans. Our model 
makes a pub business accessible to many more publicans than 
the purchase of a freehold, while also providing an extensive 
package of support to our publicans to help them build a 
successful pub business. The business model is simple and 
adaptable with no single pub or any single publican accounting 
for more than 1% of the Group’s operating profit.
Publicans lease their pub(s) from the Group on the basis of 
agreements which provide a flexible split between rent and  
tied drink margin. There is a higher risk for the publican if they 
opt for an agreement with a higher rent and lower drinks price, 
as opposed to an agreement with a lower rent and higher drinks 
price which provides the publican with protection in periods  
of lower trading. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Both we and our publicans have a mutual interest in making 
each pub successful as our profits are ultimately linked. When 
we work in partnership with our publicans to drive sales in the 
pub, both Punch and the publican benefit from increased sales 
and potential profit.
Regulatory environment
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015  
(the ‘Act’) which is expected to come into force from June 2016 
includes a lessee’s right, under certain circumstances, to change 
the freely-negotiated commercial terms of their agreement.  
This MRO option enables some occupational lessees to elect to 
opt-out of the drinks supply tie at certain points during the term 
of their lease agreement and therefore occupy the premises  
on a standard commercial property lease, paying rent only. 
We remain concerned about the unintended consequences of 
the Act, which will only become clear over time. Punch’s initial 
view (which remains subject to seeing the finalised terms of the 
Secondary Legislation) is that the proposed legislation is contrary 
to existing legal contracts and property rights and runs contrary 
to the Office of Fair Trading’s findings when it considered  
a super-complaint from the Campaign for Real Ale in 2010.  
We are in dialogue with Government as to how the Act will 
work in practice. Within phase one of Secondary Consultation 
there remain a number of areas in which we are seeking clarity 
from Government. We await the publication of phase two  
of the consultation with interest and will continue to engage 
constructively with the process.
We are also fully engaged in the forthcoming pub sector review 
being undertaken by the Scottish Government and look forward 
to constructive dialogue with them to help develop plans for  
a healthy Scottish pub sector.
Tied pub leases provide access to financial, business and training 
support and a wider range of products and services that  
cannot normally be accessed in a free-trade pub. We urge the 
Government to recognise the benefits that this model provides 
and continue to work with the industry to allow this model to 
continue to thrive into the future, allowing future business men 
and women the same low cost, lower risk access into a thriving 
pub market.
With limited impact in our current financial year, in our 2017 
financial year we expect up to 400 potential MRO event triggers 
in the core estate and up to 300 event triggers per year in the 
following four years. In the event that a lessee elected to invoke 
the MRO option, whilst our income derived from the supply of 
tied drinks products would be partially offset by increases in 
rent, we are aware of the potential for our total income to be 
adversely affected.
For the 2015 financial year Punch generated £248m of net 
income of which £134m was from the sale of drinks, £102m 
from rental income and £12m of machine and other income.  
Of the £134m of drinks income, approximately £72m was from 
core pubs with a potential at some time in the future for an 
MRO event trigger to occur.
While the take-up of the MRO option will only become clear 
over time through the cycle of five yearly rent reviews and 
renewals, our current expectations are that the majority  
of the estate will continue to operate under, and enjoy the 
benefits of the tied-drinks model. 
Trading review
Given changing market dynamics, Punch’s strategy is to focus on 
its core estate, which represents a higher quality, geographically 
well-located portfolio of pubs, suitably positioned to adapt to 
changing market conditions and support sustainable long-term 
profits for Punch and our publicans.
The aim for the core estate which comprised 2,872 pubs at  
22 August 2015, is to make each pub the best of its type in  
its marketplace. The focus is on attracting the right publicans 
through flexible agreements, to attractive well-located pubs  
that have had the appropriate level of investment. We then 
support those publicans with extensive training and dedicated 
field support, backed up by further specialist support teams  
and access to the Punch Buying Club.
The strategy for the non-core estate, which comprised 716 pubs 
at 22 August 2015, focuses on maximising short-term returns 
prior to disposal. These pubs are predominantly small, wet led 
and have a much lower average net income per pub. Given the 
limited scope for investment, these pubs are expected in time  
to generate more value through disposal than retention.
Overall profit performance for the year was in line with 
management expectations and previous guidance. In the  
52 weeks ended 22 August 2015, Punch generated EBITDA  
of £196m (excluding non-underlying items):
Core Non-core Central Punch
Period end pub 
numbers 2,872 716 – 3,588
Revenue £371m £50m – £421m
Net income £219m £28m – £248m
Costs £(19)m £(6)m £(34)m £(59)m
Matthew Clark 
joint venture – – £8m £8m
EBITDA £201m £22m £(26)m £196m
Core estate:
The core estate accounted for 90% of outlet EBITDA in the year 
with an average net income per pub of approximately £76,000 
p.a. Trading has been in line with our expectations with 
like-for-like net income growth of 0.3% for the year. Like-for-like 
growth has now been delivered for nine consecutive quarters. 
The core estate is expected to generate c.95% of outlet EBITDA 
in the 2016 financial year.
We continue to offer high levels of support in developing our 
publicans’ businesses, having invested heavily in this area in 
recent years. The New Business Development team, which 
supports all new publicans with their initial investment, pub 
launch and throughout their first six months, has made further 
improvements against volume uplift expectations.
We ensure that new publicans are set up for success with our 
Foundation Week, a comprehensive training programme which 
provides all the skills needed to run a successful pub business. 
Thereafter publicans have access to a variety of workshops  
and e-learning materials covering areas such as marketing  
and merchandising, finance and social media. Overall, during  
the year we trained over 500 of our publicans. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 08
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
Non-core estate:
The non-core estate accounted for 10% of outlet EBITDA in  
the year and represented 21% of the estate by number of pubs. 
We are committed to driving operating performance of  
the non-core estate and maximising the profits from these 
outlets. For some of our estate, changing market dynamics  
and operational performance will lead to some reclassifications 
of sites between core and non-core. Consequently, during the 
first half of the year, 71 pubs transferred to the core estate 
following improved performance and outlook and 65 pubs 
transferred from the core to non-core estate to focus on 
maximising short-term returns. Immediately following the year 
end, a further 39 pubs transferred to the core estate and 
another 39 pubs transferred from the core to non-core estate.
Pubs remaining in the non-core estate are managed under 
separate categories; protect and sell. We have reviewed the 
remaining estate to ensure that our focus is directed towards  
the opportunities we have to drive performance.
Property review
Following a review of our property portfolio, the Board 
considers that the most appropriate accounting policy to carry 
our pub estate, going forward, is at open market valuation, 
which gives greater transparency on the underlying value of our 
property assets than historic cost. We commissioned external 
valuers to assist with this valuation during the second half of the 
year, having undertaken a full impairment review of the estate 
at the interim accounting date.
No. of pubs Av. value Valuation
August 2014 valuation 3,809 £568k £2,165m
–  Core disposals and
unlicensed (59) £658k £(39)m
– Non core disposals and 
unlicensed / ULP disposals (162) £244k £(39)m
– Valuation uplift £9m
August 2015 valuation 3,588 £584k £2,097m
Our property estate has been externally valued at £2,097m 
which represents a net uplift in the valuation (after accounting 
for pub disposals) of £9m. It should be noted that whilst the 
valuation represents an-uplift on the prior year valuation, the 
change in accounting policy does necessitate a significant 
accounting charge against historic book value which is further 
explained in the Financial Review.
Consistent with our strategy to focus on the core estate,  
we disposed of 162 non-core pubs (including unlicensed)  
in the year, together with other assets for proceeds of £39m. 
Following the year end (on 11 September 2015), we completed 
on the sale of a package of 158 non-core pubs for gross 
proceeds of £53.5m. This disposal at an average of c.£340,000 
per pub, was above book value and significantly ahead of the 
average proceeds achieved for previous non-core disposals.
We also disposed of a small number of core pubs in the year, 
realising £51m in proceeds, £18m above book value and at  
a multiple of 23 times LTM EBITDA. 
We have continued to invest in our properties with a £46m 
spend across the Group. This was 11% below last year’s level 
reflecting the uncertainty created by the MRO provisions of the 
Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act. While we have 
a strong pipeline of potential investments, new investments  
with a payback in excess of five years remain on hold pending 
finalisation of the Secondary Legislation expected in 2016.
Punch has a rigorous approach to capital allocation and 
authorisation, including an annual plan, a project by project 
capital approval process and regular post-investment reviews.
Disposal of our investment in Matthew Clark:
On 7 October 2015 we announced the completion of the 
disposal of our 50% shareholding in Matthew Clark (our 50% 
joint venture investment with Accolade Wines) for £99m in cash 
(after £2m of transaction costs) and at a £46m premium to 
book value. The sale of our investment in Matthew Clark, a 
non-core asset, enhances the Group’s financial flexibility to 
pursue its strategic objectives.
On completion, the Group entered into a 10 year non-exclusive 
drinks supply contract with Matthew Clark Wholesale Limited. 
Under this supply agreement, Matthew Clark will supply 
selected wines and spirits drinks products to the Group at 
agreed pricing levels. Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Income statement:
Results for the 52 weeks ended 22 August 2015:
Underlying results
2015
£m
2014
£m Movement
Core estate 200.6 206.2 (5.6)
Non-core estate 22.2 29.4 (7.2)
Matthew Clark joint 
venture 7.8 6.2 1.6
Central costs (34.2) (37.0) 2.8
EBITDA 196.4 204.8 (8.4)
Depreciation and 
amortisation (12.5) (11.0) (1.5)
Net finance costs (123.3) (155.1) 31.8
Bond buyback profits 0.3 29.9 (29.6)
Profit before taxation 60.9 68.6 (7.7)
Tax (11.4) (8.2) (3.2)
Net earnings 49.5 60.4 (10.9)
As previously presented, underlying results were in line with 
expectations, having delivered underlying EBITDA of £196.4m. 
Comparative results for the 2014 year were positively impacted 
by an extra week’s trading (53rd week).
Like-for-like net income (which reflects rental income and  
net income from the sale of drinks and other products to our 
publicans) in the core estate, after adjusting for the impact of 
disposals, has been relatively stable, with a growth of 0.3% for 
the full year. The decline in core estate profit is predominantly 
due to the additional week of trading in the previous year  
(£3.9m) and the impact of pub disposals (£3.3m).
The decline in profit from the non-core estate was principally 
due to the impact of the ongoing disposal programme (£3.1m), 
lower like-for-like profits as these smaller uninvested pubs  
were impacted by market conditions, together with the impact  
of the additional week of trading in the previous year (£0.6m).
The non-core disposal programme has had the benefit of 
improving the average quality of the Group’s pub estate, with 
average profits per pub across the wider estate up 4% on the 
previous year. The core estate now makes up 90% of the 
Group’s pub profits, up from 88% in the previous year, with 
this proportion expected to increase to c.95% in 2016.
Matthew Clark provided a post-tax contribution to Punch  
of £7.8m (2014: £6.2m) and we received £6.0m in dividends  
in the year.
We continued to maintain a tight control on costs, with central 
costs down by 6% in the year to £34.2m, after adjusting for the 
additional week in 2014, which was in line with the reduction  
in the estate size, being down 6% on the previous year end.
Underlying net finance costs (before the impact of bond 
buyback profits in 2014) reduced by £31.8m to £123.3m, 
reflecting the benefit of the capital restructuring that completed 
on 8 October 2014. Following the capital restructuring, the 
weighted average interest rate for the Group’s gross borrowings, 
including the impact of interest rate swaps and PIK interest,  
at the balance sheet date was 7.8% (2014: 7.2%). Underlying 
finance costs in the previous year included a net credit of 
£29.9m in relation to loan note redemption profits, with a  
credit of only £0.3m in the current year. The one-off charges 
and credits relating to the capital restructuring in the year are 
shown within non-underlying items, referred to below.
Financial review
Steve Dando
Chief Financial Officer
“ The non-core disposal programme 
has had the benefit of improving 
the average quality of the Group’s 
pub estate, with average profits 
per pub across the wider estate 
up 4% on the previous year.” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 10
Financial review continued
Taxation:
The underlying taxation charge equates to an effective tax rate 
of 21.5% before post-tax earnings from joint ventures. This 
compares with the UK corporation taxation rate of 20.6%  
for the year.
The availability of sizeable capital allowance pools amounting  
to £210m (generated from our investment programme in 
community pubs) at August 2015, together with other tax assets 
is expected to result in no corporation tax payments being due 
in the 2016 financial year.
Non-underlying items:
A number of non-underlying items were recognised during the 
period amounting to a net charge of £132.1m, resulting in a net 
non-underlying loss after tax of £82.6m. The principal items are 
set out below:
•	 £(483.8)m charge on transition to accounting for properties 
at market valuation (note 6);
•	 £(16.4)m impairment losses;
•	 £374.6m profit on capital restructuring;
•	 £(35.0)m charge for the mark-to-market movement  
in value of interest rate swaps;
•	 £21.9m profit on disposal of properties; 
•	 £(18.3)m charge for capital restructuring costs; and
•	 £(9.1)m goodwill disposed on the transfer and disposal  
of core pubs.
The tax effect of all of these items, together with the  
resolution of prior year tax matters, gave rise to a tax credit  
of £34.0m.
Completion of the capital restructuring  
(October 2014):
On 8 October 2014 the Group announced the successful 
completion of restructuring proposals for the Punch A and 
Punch B securitisations. The impact of the restructuring reduced 
total net debt (including mark-to-market on interest rate swaps) 
by £0.6bn. The Group also issued a total of 3,771m new 
ordinary shares in connection with the restructuring proposals, 
of which 1,273m was a firm placing at 3.93 pence per share. 
A non-underlying profit of £374.6m was recorded on 
completion of the capital restructuring, reflecting:
•	 £794.0m reduction in gross nominal debt and  
swap mark-to-market on exchanged notes;
•	 £7.0m on issue of class B3 notes;
•	 £(271.1)m cash payments on debt settlement;
•	 £(196.5)m equity issued;
•	 £22.6m on write off of deferred issue costs; and
•	 £18.6m other capital restructuring items.
Share capital and earnings per share:
Punch’s issued share capital at the start of the year, 24 August 
2014, amounted to 665.8m shares. Punch issued 3,771.2m  
new ordinary shares on 8 October 2014 under the terms of  
the capital restructuring. On 13 October 2014 Punch effected  
a share consolidation on the basis of 1 consolidated ordinary 
share for every 20 existing ordinary shares. Following the share 
consolidation and as at the balance sheet date, the issued share 
capital amounted to 221.9m ordinary shares.
For the purpose of calculating the earnings per share measure, 
the ordinary shares outstanding during the year (and the 
previous year) have been adjusted for the share consolidation. 
The basic weighted average number of shares applied to the 
earnings per share calculation is 198.0m for the current year 
(previous year: 33.3m).
Adjusted basic earnings per share (EPS), which excludes the 
effect of non-underlying items was 25.0 pence. Basic EPS was  
a loss of 41.7 pence, primarily due to the capital restructuring 
and impact on the transition to accounting for properties at 
market value.
Property valuation:
The result of the change in accounting policy for our properties 
to open market valuation has resulted in a net reduction in  
our property, plant and equipment values of £190.6m. The net 
impact has been recognised as a £483.8m charge to the income 
statement for pubs for which book values were higher than 
market value, offset by a £293.2m credit to equity reflecting  
the reversal of previous impairment charges for a number  
of properties on which book values were below current  
market value. 
The net downward valuation reflects the fact that the current 
open market valuations are lower than the valuation at 
acquisition (or the August 2004 valuation, being the date of 
transition to IFRS) plus capital investment and less accumulated 
depreciation and impairment charges, largely reflecting the 
decline in like-for-like profits experienced from 2008 to 2013. 
Under historic cost accounting a property’s book value could be 
greater than the open market value of the property, providing 
that the value-in-use of the property (calculated by reference  
to the discounted future expected cash flows generated by  
the property) was no less than the book value of the property. 
Pensions:
Punch maintains a defined contribution scheme which is open 
to all employees. The Group has one defined benefit scheme 
(the Pubmaster pension scheme) which is closed to new 
entrants. Under IAS 19 the net pension liability was £6.1m  
at August 2015 (2014: £4.3m).
Cash flow:
Cash flow from operating activities at £181.8m compared to  
an EBITDA of £178.1m (net of £18.3m of non-underlying costs). 
Cash flow
2015
£m
2014
£m
Underlying EBITDA 196.4 204.8
Exceptional restructuring costs (18.3) (27.3)
Working capital and other cash 
movements 3.7 (19.8)
Net cash from operating activities 181.8 157.7
Capital expenditure (46.4) (52.4)
Disposal proceeds 89.4 110.6
Interest received 2.4 7.6
Net cash from investing activities 45.4 65.8
Net cash flow before financing activities 227.2 223.5
Interest paid (120.6) (165.7)
Proceeds from ordinary share capital 50.0 –
Net repayment in borrowings (339.8) (69.3)
Other financing cash flows 7.7 (1.5)
Net decrease in cash (175.5) (13.0) Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Net cash flows from investing activities generated £45.4m  
in the year (2014: £65.8m), as the level of disposal proceeds  
at £89.4m exceeded the level of capital reinvestment in the 
estate of £46.4m. Interest received at £2.4m (2014: £7.6m) was 
significantly lower than the previous year as the high levels of 
cash balances in 2014 were used in the capital restructuring.
Financing cash flows primarily reflect interest paid of £120.6m 
(2014: £165.7m), net repayment in borrowings of £339.8m 
(2014: £69.3m), which in 2015 were largely as part of the 
capital restructuring, and £50.0m of proceeds on the issue  
of shares in connection with the restructuring.
Cash flows have benefited in both the current and previous year 
from the ongoing pub disposal programme, proceeds from 
which have been used towards repayment of debt. The 
non-core pub estate was valued at £179m at the balance  
sheet date and we expect to continue to dispose out of this 
estate over time, with in the region of £60m of disposal 
proceeds from individual pub sales (including a small number  
of core pubs) expected in the next financial year. Proceeds from 
the disposal of non-core pubs are available to be used towards 
scheduled debt repayment, with excess proceeds used to prepay 
senior debt.
Capital structure:
The nominal value of net debt (excluding the mark-to-market  
of interest rate swaps) was down by £513m in the year and 
down by £102m since the October 2014 refinancing to 
£1,406m.
Punch A
£m
Punch B
£m
External
£m
Group
£m
Securitisation 
cash (66.0) (34.8) – (100.8)
Senior hedge 
notes 97.4 37.2 – 134.6
Class A notes 441.3 498.0 – 939.3
Class M notes 300.0 – – 300.0
Class B notes 99.1 72.9 – 172.0
Net 
securitisation 
debt 871.8 573.3 – 1,445.1
External cash – – (17.3) (17.3)
Supply company 
& EBT cash – – (22.0) (22.0)
Nominal net 
debt 871.8 573.3 (39.3) 1,405.8
Property 
valuation 1,300.1 791.2 6.2 2,097.5
Matthew Clark 
net disposal 
value – – 98.7 98.7
Property and 
investments 1,300.1 791.2 104.9 2,196.2
Net asset value 428.3 217.9 144.2 790.4
LTM EBITDA 117.8 71.0 7.6 196.4
Nominal net 
debt leverage 7.4 times 8.1 times – 7.2 times
The Group is financed solely by two long-term securitised  
debt structures (Punch A and Punch B securitisations) and  
has no bank borrowings. The restructured debt has a lower 
contractual amortisation requirement with scheduled 
contractual amortisation of £200.8m over the next five years, 
with no term repayments until 2021.
The capital restructuring has positively impacted the 
consolidated net debt to LTM EBITDA leverage ratio of  
the Punch Group, with leverage having reduced to 7.2 times  
(2014: 9.5 times).
Outside of the securitisations (‘External’), the Group holds a 
number of loss making short leasehold pubs. External EBITDA  
of £7.6m represents Punch’s share of the post-tax earnings from 
Matthew Clark (£7.8m) together with the operating loss from 
the short leasehold pubs (£1.3m) and the release of certain 
central accruals (£1.1m).
Net debt at August 2015 of £1,405.8m is secured against  
a largely freehold pub estate which was independently valued 
during August 2015 at £2,097m. Total Group Net Asset Value 
(defined as property valuation and investments less nominal  
net debt), including the value of Matthew Clark (shown at  
the net disposal value) amounted to £790m (£3.56 per share).
The Group benefits from having a long-term securitisation 
financing structure. While this provides certainty of financing 
with no term debt repayments until 2021, the covenant 
structure attached to the securitisations is restrictive,  
in particular in relation to the use of pub disposal proceeds,  
which are not permitted to be used to fund additional capital 
reinvestment into the estate, even where investment 
opportunities are at attractive levels of return. Consequently,  
the Board is giving appropriate consideration to how best  
to improve financial flexibility and support the strategic 
development of the business going forward. 
All of the Group’s securitised debt, with the exception of  
the senior hedge notes, is at fixed rates of interest, or fixed 
through the use of interest rate swaps. Consequently, the Group 
does not benefit from the current low UK interest rate. The 
mark-to-market value on the Group’s interest rate swap which 
matches the Class M notes amounted to £132.3m at the balance 
sheet date.
The junior classes of securitised notes (Class M and Class B 
notes) are callable (at the Group’s option) at par from October 
2016 onwards, following the end of their no-call period. The 
Class A notes carry make-whole provisions (modified Spens) 
whereby a predetermined price is set should the notes be 
redeemed early (at the Group’s option).
For further information on the capital restructuring, please  
refer to our website: www.punchtavernsplc.com
