 Steve Wadey 
Chief Executive Officer
QinetiQ is a company that is focused firmly on its customers. 
I am delighted to be leading QinetiQ – a company that is built on the 
expertise of its people focused on providing effective solutions for  
our customers. 
There’s no denying that global markets are challenging, but they also 
present opportunities. Throughout the world, the proliferation and 
pace of technology means that threats to our security are increasing 
in number and diversity. The ability to harness information, knowledge 
and technology is critical to meeting these global challenges. 
In the UK, Government customers need to deliver more with less and 
so are seeking greater value. They are looking for suppliers that not 
only have a track record of delivering efficiencies but can also help 
them meet new challenges through innovation. 
In the US, the Federal Government continues to pursue technological 
superiority as its principal source of military advantage and has posed 
the question – ‘what next?’ Disruptive innovation will be at the heart 
of any answer, and this will have an impact on military customers and 
markets worldwide.
Amongst prime contractors, competition is becoming more fierce. 
They are engaging with the supply chain to find new sources of 
competitive advantage. 
Although changes in market dynamics can cause uncertainty, they 
also create chances to do things differently, particularly for companies 
like QinetiQ with the right foundations and inherent capabilities. 
Competitive and financially robust, QinetiQ is a company that is ready 
for a new phase of its journey. Our people already have a sense of 
where we are going in the future but the changes in global markets 
demand that we are more externally facing. 
Success will be built on operational excellence – doing what we say  
we are going to do, and underpinned by continued capital discipline.
It will be driven by investing in our organic capabilities and responding 
proactively to the changes in our global markets through agility and 
innovation that deliver effective solutions for our customers.
I look forward to leading QinetiQ during the next phase in its journey 
and to the exciting future that we have ahead of us, focused firmly on 
continuing to meet our customers’ needs.
Steve Wadey
Chief Executive Officer
21 May 2015
Customer-focused
•  Operational excellence and capital discipline
• Innovation and investment in organic capabilities
• Customer focus
Future priorities
P14 Our strategic priorities
10
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 2015 Year in review – David Mellors, CFO
• Strong performance in EMEA Services with increased orders,  
revenue and operating profit 
• Core Air, Weapons and Maritime businesses all performed well
• New President appointed to lead repositioning of US Global Products 
in response to a challenging market
• Continued high cash conversion
• £150m share buyback well advanced; £128m complete at 15 May 2015
• 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at the half year  
and progressive dividend policy 
• 77% revenue under contract at start of 2016 consistent with prior year; 
balance supported by pipeline of opportunities 
• Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the current  
financial year
Orders grew 3% to £613.6m (2014: £596.9m^), and Group Book-to-Bill ratio 
was 1.1x. At the beginning of the new financial year, 77% of the Group’s  
FY16 revenue was already under contract, a similar level to a year ago.
Revenue was £763.8m (2014: £782.6m^). EMEA Services delivered a strong 
performance, with a 3% increase in revenue and the core Air, Weapons and 
Maritime businesses all delivering improved results. The performance of 
Global Products continued to be impacted by the ongoing reduction of US 
military forces deployed to Afghanistan, which depressed demand for 
conflict-related products. 
Underlying operating profit* was £111.3m (2014: £113.7m^) with growth  
in EMEA Services offset by Global Products, which was impacted by the 
reduction in revenue and by approximately $5m of additional one-off costs 
associated with separating from US Services infrastructure. 
Underlying profit before tax* increased 7% to £107.8m (2014: £101.2m^)  
with underlying net finance costs* falling to £3.5m (2014: £12.5m^) as a  
result of the early repayment of the private placement debt in June 2014.
Underlying earnings per share* for the continuing Group were up 10% at 15.2p 
(2014: 13.8p^), benefiting from the higher underlying profit before tax* and 
reduced number of shares following the repurchase of £107m of the £150m 
share buyback programme as at 31 March 2015. Basic earnings per share for 
the total Group (including US Services) were 16.6p (2014: 1.9p loss per share).
Underlying operating cash conversion* remained strong at 103% (2014: 93%^), 
delivering an underlying cash flow from continuing operations* of £114.9m 
(2014: £106.2m^). At 31 March 2015, the Group had £195.5m net cash, 
compared to £170.5m net cash at 31 March 2014 and £205.7m at 30 
September 2014.
QinetiQ investment case
1 .  Unique  and  resilient 
competitive position
• Unique technical expertise  
and domain know-how
•  Trusted advisor – independent 
position in supply chain
• Excellent customer relationships 
•  Underpinned by a portfolio  
of large long-term contracts 
•  Sustainable core businesses well 
positioned to win market share
•  Opportunity to expand  
existing capabilities into  
new international markets
2 .  Deliv ering  earnings  gro w th  and
shareholder returns
•  Strategy for growing sustainable 
earnings through effective management 
of the Group’s portfolio
• Competitive cost base
• High cash generation
• Strong balance sheet 
•  Disciplined investment management 
for core and ‘Explore’ portfolios,  
with ‘Test for Value’ largely  
customer funded
• Progressive shareholder returns
3. Signif ic ant  option  value
•  Potential for profitable growth from 
emerging ‘Explore’ businesses with 
demonstrable markets
• Development of new options from 
customer-funded R&D in rigorously 
managed ‘Test for Value’ portfolio
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1 to the financial statements  
on page 97). 
11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P4 Our business model P44 Chief Financial Officer’s review
