 Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 02
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased with the progress we have made in the year  
in delivering on our key initiatives. Continued like-for-like growth 
in the core estate and the completion of the capital restructuring 
in October 2014 provides a better platform to undertake a 
thorough review of the future direction of the business. 
We secured the appointment of new Chief Executive, 
Duncan Garrood, who joined the business in June 2015. 
Duncan, together with the Board, has been undertaking a 
review of our operations and strategic direction bringing to bear 
his external perspectives from other businesses. From this 
review, we have developed a clear direction to move forward in 
order to maximise long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Through our ongoing selective disposal programme, we benefit 
from having a higher quality pub estate in which approximately 
95% of pub profits are expected to come from the core estate 
in the 2016 financial year (up from 88% in 2014). Following the 
year end, we completed the sale of a package of 158 non-core 
pubs for gross proceeds of £53.5m and the disposal of our 50% 
joint venture investment in Matthew Clark for gross proceeds 
of £100.7m. 
The capital restructuring placed the Group in a stronger financial 
position with nominal net debt down by £513m in the year. All 
of the Group’s debt is in the form of long-term securitised debt, 
secured against a property portfolio which was independently 
revalued at £2,097m; £692m in excess of nominal net debt. 
Following the restructuring, the securitisation structures contain 
a number of restrictive covenants in relation to the use of 
disposal proceeds, consequently, the Board is giving appropriate 
consideration to how best to improve flexibility and support  
the strategic development of the business going forward.  
The Matthew Clark proceeds provide the Group with financial 
flexibility, with this cash being held outside of the securitisation 
structures. We have not committed to any particular use of the 
sale proceeds at this stage, but the Board is mindful of the need 
to maintain sufficient flexibility in our finances, in light of the 
uncertainty created by the Market Rent Only (‘MRO’) which 
could include retention of cash on the balance sheet or the 
purchase of or refinancing of bonds.
Legislative changes
The tied long-lease pub model, which today represents 56%  
of Punch’s core estate, but fewer than 20% of the wider UK 
pub market, has successfully provided entrepreneurs with  
a low cost, lower risk entry into running pubs with the ability  
to build successful businesses and sell-on through the 
assignment market.
The Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015  
(the ‘Act’) which includes the provision of a Statutory Code, 
independent adjudicator and an MRO option for all companies 
with over 500 pubs operating under tied leased and tenancy 
agreements in England and Wales, received Royal Assent  
on 26 March 2015. 
Stephen Billingham
Non-Executive Chairman
“ We are confident in our plans  
and in our ability to implement 
our strategy, which is aimed at 
maximising the long-term value  
of our business. ” Punch Taverns plc 
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 03
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
There is currently a period of consultation in order for the 
Government to prepare Secondary Legislation setting out  
the detail of how the Act will be implemented, and it is 
anticipated that it will come in to operation from June 2016.
We urge the Government to ensure that the Secondary 
Legislation for the MRO, when drafted, allows an appropriate 
period of time for implementation and protects the ongoing 
investment that pubs need to compete. We believe that 
appropriately drafted legislation can avoid the adverse 
unintended consequences of the Act and allow the tied model 
to continue to thrive into the future, allowing future publicans 
the same low cost, lower risk access into a thriving pub market.
Board of Directors
As referred to above, we announced in March 2015 the 
appointment of Duncan Garrood as Chief Executive Officer  
with effect from June 2015. Duncan has extensive experience  
in the retail and franchise sectors which is of particular relevance 
to Punch, given the dynamic and evolving pubs market.
Following Duncan’s appointment, I have reverted to my 
original role of Non-Executive Chairman having held the 
position of Executive Chairman since February 2013, following 
the resignation of the previous Chief Executive.
Employees and publicans
We have an extremely committed and engaged workforce  
and the Board was pleased to see the results of our recent 
employee engagement survey in which 92% of our employees 
took part. It is a testament to the commitment and calibre  
of our employees that we were recognised as the ‘Operations 
Team of the Year’ and ‘Responsible Retailer of the Year’  
at the 2015 Publican Awards.
Our publicans include a number of award winners with a record 
eleven regional finalists and three overall category winners in 
this years ‘Great British Pub Awards’. Over 250 of our publicans 
(and their pubs) were represented in the ‘2016 Good Beer 
Guide’ and over 1,000 pubs are ‘Cask Marque’ accredited.
Outlook
While our actions to date have put us in a much stronger 
position to address the structural changes impacting our  
market, we do not underestimate the challenges the industry 
faces in light of impending legislative changes. 
While the year ahead represents another period of transition  
for the business, we are confident in our plans and in our ability 
to implement our strategy, which is aimed at maximising the 
long-term value of our business.
