 Another year of progress
Mark Elliott 
Non-executive Chairman
• Strong demand for QinetiQ’s highly differentiated capabilities
•  Steve Wadey appointed as CEO – an outstanding leader 
with a track record of driving growth  
• £150m share buyback well advanced 
• 17% increase in full year dividend reflecting upgrade at  
the half year and the Group’s progressive dividend policy
• Maintaining expectations for Group performance in the 
current financial year
At QinetiQ, our most prized possession is trust. Our leaders are 
responsible for ensuring that ethical and responsible business 
practices are embedded in our culture. We would like to thank the 
leadership team for continuing to drive a more open and empowered 
culture across the Group.
QinetiQ has many sites distributed across the UK. We recognise and 
support the important role our employees play in local communities 
and their environmental stewardship of those sites.
Along with customers and employees, shareholders are key stakeholders 
as the owners of the company. QinetiQ operates across many platforms 
and contracts, so we set ourselves the target of providing information 
to shareholders that is timely, clear and concise. We would like to thank 
our shareholders for their continued support and the time that they 
commit to a constructive dialogue with our Board and executive team. 
Strategy
We are encouraged that the Group’s strategy has delivered further 
progress this year, with increased demand for the capabilities provided 
by our core businesses and further development of our pipeline of new 
opportunities, all underpinned by continued financial discipline. 
The sale of US Services, completed in May, was a key step in transforming 
QinetiQ into a Group that is differentiated by the expertise of its 
people and by its innovation, which provides a dynamic source of 
potential future revenue streams. We now have a new leadership 
team and Proxy Board in North America which is starting to reshape 
our US products business.
The Group is cash generative and disciplined about capital allocation. 
This supports ongoing investment in growth opportunities, a progressive 
dividend policy and the maintenance of the balance sheet strength 
necessary in an uncertain trading environment.
Results
In today’s world, where threats to our security are many and varied, 
demand for QinetiQ’s highly differentiated capabilities is strong and  
we are pleased to be able to report another year of progress. 
In the year to 31 March 2015, Group revenue was £763.8m (2014: 782.6m^), 
and underlying operating profit* was £111.3m (2014: £113.7m^). Full year 
underlying earnings per share* were 15.2p (2014: 13.8p^). Total Group 
profit after tax was £104.7m (2014: loss of £12.7m). Underlying operating 
cash conversion remained strong at 103% (2014: 93%^) with net cash 
increasing to £195.5m (31 March 2014: £170.5m).
The Board is maintaining its expectations for Group performance in the 
year to 31 March 2016. 
Employees, customers and shareholders 
The expertise and domain know-how of our people is our key competitive 
advantage. We prioritise the safety and development of highly skilled 
employees because they underpin the relationships with our customers 
that build mutual trust and deliver unique benefits. We are pleased  
to report further progress with employee engagement and customer 
satisfaction scores this year and that we remain committed to 
customer service excellence.
Key highlights
08
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement •   Continuity in governance structures put in 
place at the end of 2013, with the Operating 
Committee overseeing operational 
management and the Governance Committee 
overseeing risk management
• Continued focus on succession planning, 
with changes at Executive and Non-executive 
Director level during the year
• Good working relationship established with 
the new Proxy Board in the USA following the 
US restructuring in 2014
• Continued focus on strategy and greater 
measurement of progress against targets
* Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 141.
^  Restated to reflect continuing/discontinued operations (see note 1 to the financial statements  
on page 97). 
Dividend and shareholder returns 
The Board proposes a final dividend of 3.6p per share for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 (2014: 3.2p), making the full year dividend  
5.4p (2014: 4.6p). Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, 
the final dividend will be paid on 4 September 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 7 August 2015. The full year dividend represents an 
increase of 17%, reflecting the Group’s progressive dividend policy 
and upgrade at the half year. 
In May 2014, we were pleased to be able to initiate a £150m capital 
return to shareholders by way of a share buyback. We believe the 
scale of the return reflects the strong cash generative characteristics 
of the Group, as well as its confidence in its strategy, while taking  
into account the continuing uncertainty in QinetiQ’s end markets,  
its pension obligations and the strength of its working capital 
position. By 15 May 2015, the Group had bought back 63 million 
shares at a cost of £128m. The Board remains committed to 
maintaining an efficient balance sheet. 
The Board
The priorities that I have set for the Board are strategic growth 
balanced with capital discipline, succession planning and to ensure  
the effective stewardship of QinetiQ through appropriate governance 
processes and systems of control. Good governance is pivotal in the 
relationship of trust between QinetiQ, its customers, its employees 
and other key stakeholders. 
In June 2014, we announced the appointment of Ian Mason as 
Non-executive Director and the retirement of Noreen Doyle after 
nearly nine years on the Board. 
On 15 October 2014, Leo Quinn tendered his resignation as CEO of 
QinetiQ to take up a new role as CEO of Balfour Beatty. Leo arrived  
at QinetiQ in 2009 at a difficult point in the Company’s history with  
a downturn in defence spending on the horizon. Under his leadership, 
QinetiQ has been transformed into the strong, competitive company  
it is today, and on behalf of the Board, we wish him every success in 
his new role. 
Following Leo’s departure, Chief Financial Officer David Mellors  
took over as interim CEO in addition to his existing responsibilities. 
We would also like to place on record the Board’s appreciation for 
David’s outstanding leadership during this period. 
In January 2015, we were pleased to announce the appointment  
of Steve Wadey as our new CEO, with effect from 27 April 2015. 
We were looking for an outstanding leader with a track record of 
driving growth, a deep understanding of the defence industry and 
the technological know-how to lead QinetiQ in the next stage of our 
Organic-Plus strategy. Steve fits all these criteria and is respected 
across the MOD and European defence sector; we look forward  
to working with him on the next stage of our strategic journey.
Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman 
21 May 2015
Audit Committee
Paul Murray, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
Susan Searle
Nominations Committee
Mark Elliott, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Remuneration Committee
Michael Harper, Committee Chairman 
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 
Mark Elliott 
Ian Mason 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle
Risk & CSR Committee
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman 
Mark Elliott 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
David Mellors 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Security Committee
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Committee Chairman 
Michael Harper 
Ian Mason 
David Mellors 
Paul Murray 
Susan Searle 
Steve Wadey
Current Board Committee members
Key governance highlights
09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
P48 Governance 
