 Chief Executive’s Review
We continue to be highly selective
in our search for properties with
higher yield and potential for
active management and/or
reversionary uplift
Adrian Wyatt
Chief Executive
Wembley status
Quintain is the sole owner of 58 
acres of land surrounding, but not
including, the new National Stadium 
at Wembley, north west London. The
site comprises the Wembley Complex
(Arena, Conference Centre and
Exhibition Halls), Palace of Arts and
Palace of Industry, and York House. 
In October 2003 Quintain submitted
an outline planning application after
six months of consultation for a
mixed-use regeneration proposal
covering Phase 1, some 42 acres 
of that ownership. 
Quintain’ s programme for the biggest
transformation of Wembley since the
1920s will dramatically enhance the
experience of visitors to the new
National Stadium and world famous
Wembley Arena, as well as revitalising
the local community through the
creation of 3,700 new homes, 40% 
of which will be affordable housing. 
The development will feature 160,000
sq ft of new leisure facilities including 
a cinema complex, a 420-room 5-star
hotel, new offices and 82,000 sq ft of
community space.  Wembley Park
Boulevard, the length, width and height
of Regent Street will feature bars,
restaurants and cafes. In addition,
150,000 sq ft of designer outlet and
127,000 sq ft of sports retailing will be
accompanied by 86,000 sq ft of local
convenience shopping. 
The London Borough of Brent
resolved to grant outline planning
consent for Phase 1 in June 2004.
We now await decisions in favour 
of the application from the Government
Office of London. The Mayor of London
approved the plans on 14 July . A
positive decision and the conclusion
of the S106 planning agreement will
lead to full outline planning permission
being issued.
We anticipate being on site before 
the end of 2004. The standing and reputation of the
Company is further enhanced by another
record year of outperformance, in which
we have made excellent progress across
all areas of our operations. 
We remain adamant that, with good
stock-picking, high returns neither
necessitate nor connote high risk. 
We have a well-financed reversionary
portfolio with upside potential from rent
reviews, planning gain, marriage value
and development. Our current low level
of gearing, combined with intended
sales, should give us substantial financial
resources for our Special Projects, the
development of our Q3P business and
reinvestment in the Main Portfolio.
The business opportunities ahead,
exemplified by the Greenwich Peninsula,
Wembley and fund management, are
exciting, challenging and potentially very
profitable. T o realise the potential, we
have invested in recruiting additional 
highly qualified and talented staff. 
Whilst we are ever cognisant that our
success is primarily measured by total
return, underlying profits must be carefully
monitored as we strive to sustain a
progressive and covered dividend.
Special Projects
Highlights of the year are many and
varied. The major events at Wembley
during the year included the acquisition
of York House – an office block adjacent
to our existing holdings yielding 8%, 
and the delisting of the 13 acre Palace 
of Arts and Industry sites which will 
be included in our Phase II planning
application. Subsequent to the year-end,
a resolution to grant 5.3m sq ft of mixed-
use development was obtained from 
the London Borough of Brent on 3 June
– a significant achievement particularly
given the timescale. Advances have been
made with the pre-letting of buildings
allied to the hotel and leisure industries.
We expect to be on site this year, 
with good progress expected by the
Stadium opening in 2006. This augurs
well for the future.
At Greenwich, the safe-guarded wharf
status has been lifted and the whole
transaction went unconditional on 
18 June 2004. We hope to commence
infrastructure works this calendar year,
with the intention of drawing down on
options over the 194 acres from 2005.
The combination of land sales and equity
participation in joint ventures will generate
substantial profits over this 20 year project.
During the year, we also acquired a 
12 acre strategic site on the other side 
of the river in partnership with the London
Development Agency.
In May 2004, we made an outline
planning application at Emersons Green
for another major mixed-use development.
We own 65 acres of the 275 acre site. 
On our site, the development will be
predominantly residential. The Main Portfolio currently
holds about half the property
assets which contribute
approximately three quarters 
of the Group’s rental income
whilst also contributing to the
uplift in NAV
With our major mixed-use consents, 
the vagaries of the residential market are
not a fundamental concern, as we have
control over the timing and financing 
of development. 
In the City of London, the office building
at 36 Gracechurch Street was let while
the tenant of 37-41 Gracechurch Street
surrendered the lease for a premium
equivalent to five years’ rent. The
combined sites will be available for a
consented development in three years’
time comprising 113,000 sq ft of offices.
At Neathouse Place, the litigation over
the fenestration has been satisfactorily
resolved and the rent review positively
concluded. Shortly after the year-end,
terms were agreed for a sale at £67.8m,
representing a profit of £20m since it 
was acquired as part of Chesterfield. 
Greenwich Peninsula status
Meridian Delta Limited, a joint venture
company comprising Quintain Estates
and Development PLC and Lend Lease
Europe Limited, has the option to
develop 194 acres of the Greenwich
Peninsula in south east London
adjacent to the Thames, of which
Quintain owns 18.5 acres. Following
the London Borough of Greenwich’ s
grant of planning permission in
February 2004, construction of the 
first homes is expected to start in 
Spring 2005. 
This landmark £5 billion, 20 year
regeneration scheme is one of the
largest ever seen in the UK, providing
10,000 new homes and creating an
estimated 24,000 new jobs for the
regional economy. The development
also comprises circa 3.6m sq ft of
commercial and 335,000 sq ft of 
retail space. 
Some 38% of the housing will be
affordable, key worker and special
needs homes. Community benefits
include two new schools, a new health
facility, a new multi-faith centre,
improved transport infrastructure 
and high quality open spaces. Another notable event was the 
formation of a joint venture company with
Countryside Properties PLC to develop
an £89m, 9.4 acre mixed-use site at
Abbey Mills, Merton in south west London.
Sales of the apartments are in line with
expectations and the pre-let leisure, retail
and hotel development has been forward
sold to a UK institution.
Main Portfolio
The Main Portfolio currently holds about
half the property assets which contribute
approximately three quarters of the
Group’ s rental income whilst also
contributing to the uplift in NAV . We
continue to recycle our capital, selling
properties where we can see no further
opportunity to add value. In total, we 
sold £80m worth of properties during 
the reporting period, realising profits
of £6m. Since the year-end, we sold
The Parishes, Scunthorpe, at a price
of £43.1m, a profit on cost of £8.2m. 
Turning to acquisitions, we continue 
to be highly selective in the search for
properties with higher yield and the
potential for active management and/or
reversionary uplift. For example, in
November, we acquired a 57,000 sq ft
office building in Bracknell yielding 9%.
We believe that this property will benefit
from an improving South East office
market. In Central Manchester we
acquired Royal Exchange, a 40,000 sq ft
shopping mall. We plan to refurbish the
centre to provide better quality retail units.
In Leamington Spa, we purchased a
38,000 sq ft office building in October for
a yield of more than 9%, with opportunities
to improve the yield still further through
refurbishment and re-gearing of leases. 
Our larger retail assets, originally acquired
through Chesterfield, have continued 
to make major contributions to the
performance of the portfolio. Castlegate,
Stockton, remains one of the North East’ s
most successful shopping centres.
We continue to maximise the reversionary
potential and are working with the local
council on plans to extend the centre 
to assist in the regeneration of the 
town. At Anglia Square, on the edge of 
Norwich city, we are looking at an urban
regeneration project centred around our
existing shopping centre investment. 
We continue to reduce our exposure
overseas and have sold the Hanford 
Mall shopping centre in California. 
The property was sold in excess of
book value, realising a profit of £2.2m. 
Elsewhere within the portfolio, we have
concluded the rent review on Fountain
Street, Manchester, and are in active
negotiations to re-gear the NHS Trust’ s
PFI agreement on our APU unit at
Dartford. Our rolling refurbishment and
rebranding of our multi-let office/retail
property at Smallbrook Queensway,
Birmingham, continues apace. This
property continues to benefit from the
transformation of Central Birmingham.  Quintain Third Party (Q3P) 
We are expanding our Q3P business 
with the intention of building a high
income stream with a low capital base
using structured finance, joint ventures
and fees from fund management. In
order to fulfil our ambition, the Q3P 
team has been strengthened.
Since the year-end, we have agreed 
with Morley to expand the Quercus health
care fund from £245m up to £450m. The
fund is structured to give us investment
income, fees and a performance related
bonus. We have widened the investment
remit to include small hospitals, assisted
living villages and diagnostic treatment
centres in addition to nursing homes,
specialist care homes and learning
disability homes. 
We are also examining structured finance
and fund management opportunities in
the university and leisure sectors.
Outlook
With inflation subdued and interest 
rates still relatively low, debt driven 
buyers remain active and competition is
increasing with the return of institutional
interest. Although it is difficult to find value
in the market, we have made purchases
of £55m during the year and £27m since
the year-end. 
We have a robust balance sheet with a
majority of our borrowings at fixed rates.
Our development and regeneration
activities are supported by the income
stream from the main investment portfolio
and Q3P revenues. Through a flexible
approach to these projects we anticipate
delivering exceptional returns.
We will continue to recycle our capital
actively and the expansion of Q3P will
contribute to a stable and significant
revenue stream in the years ahead. 
Last, but by no means least, our 
20m sq ft development programme 
in Special Projects is exciting and
challenging but we are more than 
up to the tasks that lie ahead.
Adrian Wyatt
Chief Executive
18 June 2004
Abbey Mills, Merton
Abbey Mills is a mixed-use
development facing the River Wandle 
in Merton, south west London, built
around the existing Abbey Mills market.
With joint venture partner, Countryside
Properties PLC, we are building 276
apartments, a hotel, a health and fitness
centre and two restaurants. As at 18
June 2004, building on Phase I had
started, with contracts exchanged 
on 72 apartments with a further 22
reserved. The average price is £185,000
for a one bedroom apartment and
£280,000 for a two bedroom apartment.
The commercial element of the
development, comprising the hotel,
restaurants, and health and fitness
centre has been sold forward. Finance House, Exeter
Five storey mid 1970’ s office building
under refurbishment. 38,374 sq ft
arranged on lower ground, ground 
and three upper floors together with 
12 underground car parking spaces.
The Royal Exchange, Manchester
City centre location of 40,000 sq ft 
of retail space in a shopping arcade. 
20 ground floor shop units together
with shop units arranged on sub
basement, basement, first floor
and mezzanine. Refurbishment
programme planned.
The Parishes, Scunthorpe
Town centre shopping scheme opened
in October 2002. 243,474 sq ft of retail
space in 28 shop units, including four
large shop units over 20,000 sq ft, a
multiplex cinema of 26,695 sq ft and 
six kiosk units.
