 04 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’s Statement
As a result of this year’s 
strong performance, the board 
is recommending an increase 
of 9%, or 0.75p, giving a total 
dividend for the year of 8.75p.
Nigel Ellis
Chairman
I am pleased to report that Quintain has
yet again had a successful year in which
considerable progress was made. These
achievements have continued since the
year-end, with the full completion of the
commercial contracts relating to the
Greenwich Peninsula and a resolution to
grant consent decision from the London
Borough of Brent for our Wembley
planning application. 
We have achieved this year a total return
of 19% or 16% net of inflation. This is well
ahead of our internal target of 10% total
return net of inflation, a target which we
have exceeded every year since flotation
in 1996.
We have also significantly outperformed
the property market as measured by the
Investment Property Databank (IPD), the
industry benchmark. Our total ungeared
return was 16.3% compared with IPD’ s
March Universe of 12.6%. This places 
us in the top decile.
In the year to 31 March 2004, the net
asset value per share rose by 16%, from
348p to 405p, and by 17% to 399p from
342p on a diluted basis. As in past years,
the main driver of this uplift was the
surplus on property revaluation. The most
significant contributions arose from our
Meridian Delta Project on the Greenwich
Peninsula; our investment in Wembley;
Neathouse Place, London; Emersons
Green, near Bristol; and the shopping
centres. Details of all these projects and 
a full review of our operations follow 
in the Chief Executive’ s Review. 
Profit before tax rose 14.8% from 
£14m to £16m and earnings increased
by 32% to 12p per share. The rise in
earnings was primarily due to a number
of sales in the core investment portfolio, 
a surrender premium of £2.2m at our
property in Gracechurch Street and an
effective tax rate of 0% arising mainly
through unwinding deferred tax provisions
for capital allowances previously made
on properties acquired within Chesterfield. 
However, as predicted, underlying profits
have fallen marginally, with the growth 
in income being more than offset by 
a predicted increase of 50% in
administrative expenses. This rise was
due to a combination of factors, including
the incorporation of a full year of the
Wembley costs and the impact of the
recruitment of a substantial number of
senior staff to deliver the next phase of
growth. This has enabled us to generate
significant value, as demonstrated by 
the speed with which we applied for
planning and obtained a resolution for
5.3m sq ft of development at Wembley. 05 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2004 Chairman’s Statement
The Company’ s earnings will inevitably
vary over time, particularly in light of the
major special projects, where most of 
the early value comes through in the 
form of capital value uplifts. 
Our progress has been reflected in the
ability to refinance the Company on a
corporate basis. Following the year-end,
we have repaid most of our existing
facilities, having taken out a £400m loan
fully underwritten by Barclays, Bank 
of Scotland, HSBC and Lloyds TSB.
Further details on all of these are to be
found in the Financial Director’ s Review.
Share Price
During the year the share price has
continued to perform well. At 427p at
close of business on 18 June 2004, the
shares have outperformed the FTSE All
Share Index by 48% and the FTSE Real
Estate Index by 16% since 1 April 2003. 
Dividend
As a result of this year’ s strong
performance, the board is recommending
an increase of 9%, or 0.75p, giving a total
dividend for the year of 8.75p. It is
intended that the final dividend will 
be paid on 10 September 2004 to
shareholders on the register as at 
13 August 2004. It remains the
Company's intention to maintain 
a progressive dividend and this will
continue subject to cash requirements.
Corporate Governance
We have made progress on Governance
issues during the period under review
and we continue to strive to achieve 
best practice. A detailed review is
contained in the Corporate Governance
section on pages 24 to 27. 
People
As mentioned in the half year results,
Pam Alexander who joined us as a 
non-executive director in July had to
leave in November because of conflicts
of interest which arose on her subsequent
appointment as Chief Executive of the
South East England Development Agency .
Joan MacNaughton joined us as non-
executive director in January of this year.
We believe there is clear benefit to having
a non-executive director with public
sector experience on the board and
Joan’ s experience as a career civil servant
and as the Director General of Energy
within the DTI leaves her ideally placed 
to provide wise counsel. 
During the year, we have also made 
a number of senior appointments,
particularly within the Company’ s Special
Projects and Structured Finance divisions.
Their skills and experience complement
and strengthen the existing teams and
ensure we are well positioned for the 
next stage of growth. 
Once again, I must stress how much 
we benefit from our enthusiastic and 
hard working staff, including my fellow
directors, all of whom have enabled 
us to have another good year. 
Outlook
The Company made considerable
progress in the year to 31 March 2004
across all its areas of operation. This has
continued since the year-end, with the
achievement of full planning consent for
the Greenwich Peninsula, the resolution
to grant consent at Wembley and the
profitable sales of Neathouse Place 
and The Parishes, Scunthorpe.
With the backing and enthusiasm of 
our management teams, our financial
strength and the exciting prospects for
the Company’ s three operating divisions,
the board is confident of future growth
and success.
Nigel Ellis
Chairman
18 June 2004
