 6
Quantum Pharma Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
“ I am pleased to  
report that the Group  
is making excellent 
progress on delivering  
on its stated strategy  
and this continues to  
be achieved through  
a mixture of strong 
organic growth and 
selective strategic 
acquisitions”
Chairman’s Statement
Delivering on  
our strategy
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased  
to introduce Quantum Pharma’s first 
Annual Report and Accounts since the 
Group’s successful admission to AIM  
in December 2014. The Group has 
performed strongly in the financial year 
ended 31 January 2015 and the Board 
today reports results that are ahead of 
the expectations outlined at the time  
of admission.
Admission to AIM
The Group’s admission to AIM, which raised 
£106.1 million before expenses, was the 
largest float in the pharmaceutical sector on 
AIM in 2014. The response to the admission 
was exceptionally positive, demonstrating 
confidence in both the Group’s strategic plan 
and the management team’s ability to deliver 
and generate returns. The Board joins me in 
welcoming all our new shareholders and in 
thanking Lloyds Development Capital for its 
past and continued support of the Group.
Strategy
Quantum Pharma’s overall strategy is to 
leverage its market-leading position in 
unlicensed medicine and special obtains  
in the UK, its growing international network 
and associated market access as a platform  
to become a leading service-orientated,  
niche pharmaceutical business in the UK  
and to develop the business internationally.
I am pleased to report that the Group is 
making excellent progress on delivering on  
its stated strategy and this continues to be 
achieved through a mixture of strong organic 
growth and selective strategic acquisitions.  7
Quantum Pharma Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
“ Q u a n tu m P h a r m a  
is well positioned to  
take advantage of the 
significant opportunities 
available to it and the 
Board looks forward to 
the forthcoming year  
with significant optimism”
“ The response to  
the admission was 
exceptionally positive, 
demonstrating confidence 
in both the Group’s 
strategic plan and the 
management team’s 
ability to deliver and 
generate returns”
The Group’s end markets continue to remain 
robust and in light of the recent government 
commitment to increase annual spending  
on the NHS, offer considerable opportunity  
for future growth. Over the financial year,  
the Group’s six business divisions have all 
made solid progress and this is covered in 
more detail in the CEO’s Review.
A key objective for Quantum Pharma joining 
AIM was to provide the Group with a solid 
platform for future growth. Diversification of our 
shareholder base as well as direct access to the 
equity capital markets will allow the Group to 
facilitate the rapid development of our business 
and provide funding for future acquisitions. 
As part of our strategy, the Group successfully 
completed the £15 million acquisition of the 
remaining 49% of Colonis Pharma Limited  
in December 2014. In April 2015, the Group 
then acquired the Lamda group of companies 
(Lamda UK Limited, Lamda Pharmaceutical SA 
and Lamda Laboratories SA), a pharmaceutical 
development and licensing business with 
customers in the UK, Ireland, Germany, 
France, Italy, Sweden, Greece and Cyprus. 
The total consideration for the companies was 
€9.7 million and the acquisition augments the 
Group’s product development capability and 
increases the pipeline of products in Colonis.  
It also provides the Group with an international 
network, which will be used as a platform to 
enable the Group’s other business divisions  
to penetrate overseas markets in the coming 
years. The Board looks forward to fully 
integrating both businesses into the Group  
as it works to develop the Group both in the 
UK and internationally.
Corporate Governance
Quantum Pharma values corporate governance 
highly and the Board believes that effective 
corporate governance is integral to the delivery 
of the Group’s corporate strategy, to generate 
shareholder value and to safeguard the 
long-term interests of our shareholders.
As Chairman, I am responsible for the 
leadership of the Board and for ensuring its 
effectiveness in all aspects of its role. The 
Board is responsible for the Group’s strategic 
development, monitoring and achievement of 
its business objectives, oversight of risk and 
maintaining a system of effective corporate 
governance. I will draw upon my considerable 
experience in healthcare from my time as 
global President of GlaxoSmithKline Consumer 
Healthcare to help ensure the Board delivers 
maximum shareholder value.
Dividend 
Subject to shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 21 July 2015, the Board 
proposes to pay a final dividend of 0.25 pence 
per share, which is in line with the stated 
progressive dividend policy outlined at the  
time of the Group’s admission to AIM. The final 
dividend of 0.25 pence per share, representing 
a pro-rata return for the period the Group has 
been on AIM, will be payable on 7 August 2015 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 17 July 2015. The shares will go 
ex-dividend on 16 July 2015. Looking forward, 
and based on current performance, the Board 
anticipates increasing future dividend levels 
from the Group’s interim results onwards.
Our employees  
and stakeholders
The strong performance of the Group reflects 
the dedication and quality of the Group’s 
employees. We rely on the skills, experience 
and commitment of our team to drive the 
business forward. Their enthusiasm, innovation 
and performance remain key assets of the 
Group and its future success. On behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank all of our employees, 
customers, suppliers, business partners and 
shareholders for their continued support over 
the last year.
Quantum Pharma is well positioned to take 
advantage of the significant opportunities 
available to it and the Board looks forward to 
the forthcoming year with significant optimism.
John Clarke
Non-Executive Chairman
19 May 2015
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
