 8
Quantum Pharma Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 2015
CEO’s Review
Laying the 
foundations for 
future growth
I am delighted by the Group’s strong 
progress over the last 12 months  
and excited about its future potential. 
Quantum Pharma has had a 
transformational year in which the  
Group successfully joined AIM in 
December 2014, took significant  
strategic steps, generated growth  
across the Group, penetrated  
new markets both in the UK  
and overseas and delivered  
on commitments made at  
the time of admission to AIM.
We spent the past year developing all key 
aspects of Quantum Pharma, from infrastructure 
to management, to put in place a strong 
platform from which to further develop the 
Group and deliver its strategy. As a result of 
being admitted to AIM, the Group was able to 
strengthen its balance sheet, raise additional 
funding to support its acquisition plans, 
accelerate and strengthen its growth strategy, 
increase its product portfolio and also invest  
in infrastructure and the management team 
across the Group.
Quantum Pharma’s divisions are now well 
integrated and we are starting to see the 
benefits of synergistic working at both turnover 
and EBITDA levels. This will accelerate further 
during the next few years as the Group adds  
to its portfolio of companies, products  
and services. 9
Quantum Pharma Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The current financial year promises to be the 
year where we continue to build the base and 
deliver on the strategy outlined at the time of  
the AIM admission. We will use this forward 
momentum to continue Quantum Pharma’s 
expansion and development as a leading 
provider of niche pharmaceuticals and services.
Results
Although considerable time was spent 
preparing for the AIM admission during  
the financial year, the management team 
remained focused on the Group’s operational 
businesses, delivering a 15% increase in 
revenue to £61.7 million (2014: £53.5 million) 
and a 34% increase in adjusted EBITDA to 
£12.2 million (2014: £9.1 million) with all six 
business divisions contributing strong organic 
growth. Underlying pre-tax profit increased  
by 73% to £5.7 million (2014: £3.3 million) and 
total gross profit increased by 27% to £25.9 
million (2014: £20.4 million). Administration 
costs were £16.8 million including non-
underlying costs of £4.6 million, which mainly 
related to AIM admission costs and share-
based payments. Excluding non-underlying 
items, administration costs of £12.2 million 
(2014: £9.4 million) grew by 30% in order to 
support the strong organic growth of the 
operating businesses. Reported pre-tax  
profit of £1.1 million is up £3.7 million on  
the prior year (2014: £2.6 million loss). 
The Board proposes to pay a final dividend for 
the year ended 31 January 2015 of 0.25 pence 
per share. Further details of the final dividend 
are contained in the Chairman’s Statement.
Divisional review
Quantum Pharmaceutical
Specials and Special Obtains
Leading manufacturer and supplier of 
specials and special obtains to retail 
pharmacies and wholesalers
The core of the Group performed well in the 
last year, delivering significant growth at both 
the turnover (2015: £47.3 million, 2014: £41.0 
million – including Quantum Aseptic Services) 
and the adjusted EBITDA level (2015: £10.8 
million, 2014: £9.6 million – including Quantum 
Aseptic Services), securing several new 
contracts and customers. This is despite the 
backdrop of a challenging market as a result of 
the continued impact of Part VIIIB of the drug 
tariff, increased competitor activity and further 
product licensing. Quantum Pharmaceutical 
continues to maintain its market-leading 
position and win new customers as well as 
further strengthening its long-standing and  
key customer relationships. This demonstrates 
the strength of this division and the excellent 
market position it has successfully built over 
the years, which is the enabler for the rest of 
the Group’s activities. 
Colonis Launches 
First Licensed 
Product
In December 2014, Colonis entered the licensed pharmaceutical market 
with the launch of Aviticol
™
 (Cholecalciferol 20 000 IU) for the treatment 
and prevention of vitamin D deficiency
1
. 
The launch of Aviticol
™
 coincides with new 
recommendations made by the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) 
concerning vitamin D supplement use among 
at-risk groups. These recommendations 
highlight the need for greater public awareness 
of vitamin D deficiency and for vitamin D 
supplements containing the recommended 
reference nutrient intake for at-risk groups to 
be available on prescription and listed in the 
British National Formulary
2
. 
 
 
“Vitamin D deficiency is a major public health 
issue in the UK that is attracting considerable 
attention at the moment. Moving into the 
licensed market with the launch of Aviticol
™
 
for the treatment and prevention of vitamin D 
deficiency opens up many new opportunities 
for us” explained Andrew Scaife, Chief 
Executive Officer of Quantum Pharma. 
“ Quantum Pharma’s divisions are now well integrated and we 
are starting to see the benefits of synergistic working at both 
turnover and EBITDA levels” 
Strategy in action
1 .  A v i t i c ol
™
 20 000 IU Capsules – Summary of Product Characteristics. December 2014.
2. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE). Public Health Guidance: Vitamin D: Increasing 
Supplement Use Among At-Risk Groups. November 2014.
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
