  
Chairman’s Statement 
2 
There is no doubt the 12-month period to 31 December 2015 was a difficult period as the Company 
contended with a benign market for web-hosting and web-solutions across Southeast Asia. 
 
Notwithstanding the challenging trading environment, the Company continued to invest in new 
products and services and strengthened the balance sheet whilst developing strategic partnerships 
with a number of global enterprises to ensure the Company is well placed to win increasing numbers 
of larger new contracts this year and beyond. 
 
Strategic Partnerships 
I was particularly pleased to see the Company sign several important strategic partnerships during the 
period with multi-national organisations such as Hewlett Packard, CS Loxinfo and, post-period end, 
Alibaba Cloud, a subsidiary of Alibaba.com. It is now a strategic focus across the Company to partner 
with global enterprises, where possible, to ensure the Company is well placed to win significant levels 
of new business this year and beyond. 
 
Balance Sheet Strengthened 
During the period we appointed WH Ireland as nominated advisor and broker to the Company. The 
board believes WH Ireland is well placed to manage the Company’s investment profile in the capital 
markets and completed a subscription with investment company Coston-Smith Asset Management to 
raise £1.74m, before expenses, during the period. 
 
I was also particularly pleased with the level of shareholder support during the recent reverse Scrip 
Dividend, which was widely taken up by our shareholder base increasing both the liquidity in the 
Company’s equity whilst preserving the strength of the Company’s balance sheet. 
 
In combination, these two events, further strengthened the balance sheet to provide much needed 
funding for investment in new products and services and enhanced working capital facilities.  
 
I am now pleased to report the investment phase across all our products and services is now largely 
complete and working capital management at the subsidiary level has been significantly improved. 
 
Senior Personnel  
On 19 January 2015, Darren Hopkins ceased to be the Group's Interim Finance Director in order to 
enable him to take up another UK based opportunity. I would personally like to thank Darren for his 
work as Interim Finance Director, which assisted the Company develop its financial reporting 
processes and achieving its IPO. 
 
Cindy Choo joined RapidCloud as Finance Director shortly after and was appointed to the Board on 5 
February 2015. Cindy's appointment was consistent with RapidCloud's stated intention to appoint a 
full time Finance Director, based in Malaysia, to the Board. 
 
Finally, I would also like to thank the board and all the employees for their commitment and continued 
support, which have been invaluable during the past year and we can all now look to the future with 
increased confidence as the Company capitalises on the numerous opportunities this year and beyond. 
 
 
David Cotterell 
Chairman 
 
29 June 2016 
