 Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
2
2007 was our ﬁnal year of ‘cleaning out’. 
The remnants of the Swan Hill business 
have gone and we can now turn the corner
focusing on the new growing businesses 
that we have created.
As we expected, the economic world started 
to change during 2007 and I am very pleased 
with the strategic decisions we made three years 
ago which have us strongly positioned in new,
exciting, growing markets and exiting the 
troubled mainstream UK residential and
commercial property scene.
In addition, we have a strong balance sheet for
these new businesses to utilise.
Our Independent Living business, Audley Court,
now has 408 units under construction and 260 
in planning. Initial interest in these schemes has 
been encouraging as the UK remains very under
served for the high quality product that we are
creating. At the same time our market is growing 
strongly as the demographic improves with
increasing longevity.
Our fund management business goes from
strength to strength and we have built an excellent
team in Russia which now comprises over 60
professionals. I would go as far as to say that 
I believe we have the best internationally skilled
and multi-disciplined property team available in the
country. The substantial investment we have made
in assembling this team has ensured the success 
of Raven Russia (US$118 million pre-tax proﬁt for 
the year to 31 December 2007) and gives us an
extraordinarily well placed platform for further
expansion in Russia.
Raven Russia has grown its development portfolio
substantially to over 20 million square feet of
warehouses with an end value well in excess 
of US$2 billion and the logistics market in which 
it operates is demonstrating strong rental growth
and yield compression.
Chairman’s Statement 
Our management fee income is currently running
at an annualised rate of £13.5 million which is
starting to repay our efforts and investment of 
the last 4 years.
Our second-home joint venture, The Lakes, in 
the Cotswolds has been very well received and we
have secured 30 reservations from our soft launch.
We expect further exciting news once the formal
advertising campaign begins after Easter.
Generally, I am delighted that we had the foresight
to see the ﬁzziness of the UK market three years 
ago and the strength of conviction to turn away
from our traditional businesses and to adapt to 
the necessary changes to implement a new strategy
with new businesses in exciting areas with real
prospects for continued growth. This has been
hard work and I’d like to thank everyone in the
Group for their efforts in embracing these
challenges and making them happen.
We are now very well positioned for the future
with established businesses in exciting growth
areas and a strong balance sheet.
The job in hand is to grow these saplings into
strong, valuable and sturdy trees.
Anton Bilton
Executive Chairman
18 March 2008
“We are now very well positioned for the future
with established businesses in exciting growth
areas and a strong balance sheet.”
