  
Chief Executive’s Statement 
3 
Financial Review 
Since the beginning of the financial year under review, the Company has continued to invest in 
products, sales and marketing functions and has successfully launched several new products 
specifically designed for the enterprise segment, significantly expanding its addressable market. 
 
In order to fund the investment in products and further the commercial development of the Company, 
we announced two strategic financial events during the year to strengthen the balance. 
• In June 2015 the Company announced it had raised £1.74m (before expenses) by way of a 
subscription by the Southeast Asian asset management firm, Corston-Smith Asset 
Management (‘Corston-Smith’), who subsequently have a 14.88% holding in RapidCloud. 
• In December 2015, the Company paid its interim dividend of £0.0067 per share by way of cash 
of RM207,000 and a reverse scrip dividend of RM730,000. 
 
The collective effect of both of these events meant that the Company finished the year end with cash 
and cash equivalents of RM6.8m versus RM3.9m for the previous year despite the continued 
investment in Corporate and products development. 
 
Operational Review  
During the year, RapidCloud continued to sign new contracts and commercial agreements with 
significant partners and customers demonstrating its strong position across our target markets.  The 
progress achieved during the year and post the year end, described in more detail below, evidence 
the continued operational progress the Company is making. 
 
New Contract Wins 
RapidCloud has recently announced several new contracts, demonstrating the strong market position 
the Company commands and the increasing traction the Company’s products and services are gaining 
across out target markets across South East Asia: 
 
• In April 2015, the Company announced it had won a contract with RedBox, the award-winning 
courier service of AirAsia.  Under the initial five-year contract, RapidCloud will design, build 
and operate a cloud-based Logistic Management System (LMS) for RedBox, AirAsia.  The 
proprietary LMS will provide a complete end-to-end solution to monitor the entire shipment 
network with a fully integrated online Booking & Tracking portal.  The LMS will be hosted and 
operated from RapidCloud’s datacentre in Kuala Lumpur. 
• In May 2015, the Company also announced that its wholly owned subsidiary, Emerge Systems 
(M) Sdn. Bhd., had won contracts with two major international companies for its newly 
launched PortalWEB product worth an aggregate RM1 million, (£0.18m) in the first year. 
o The first of these PortalWEB contract wins was with one of the world’s leading printing 
enterprises.  Under the terms of the Software-as-a-Service (‘SaaS’) contract, 
RapidCloud will build a framework and workflow system to handle internal purchase 
requisition, purchase orders, invoices, budgeting, contracts and assets management 
to automate the internal procurement approval processes. 
o The second contract was with a major Southeast Asian airline.  Under the terms of the 
SaaS contract, RapidCloud will build an internal Training Management System (‘TMS’) 
on its PortalWEB platform.  The TMS application will be developed to manage job 
posting, job recruitment, coaching, candidate profiling and on-the-job assessments.  
Job seekers, recruiters, trainers and administrative users will be granted different 
access controls and functionality to perform individual tasks.  Dashboards for Business 
Intelligence analysis will provide an overview of the various key performance 
indicators of the entire placement processes enabling company-wide decision 
making.   
Chief Executive’s Statement 
4 
• In May 2016, the Company announced a contract win with Wellmart Online Sdn Bhd 
(‘Wellmart’), a subsidiary of the automotive & plantation conglomerate Delloyd Ventures Bhd, 
for the Company’s e-commerce portal system development tools and consulting services.  This 
contract is expected to generate revenue of approximately RM550,000 in its first year of 
operation. 
 
Commercial Progress 
 CS Loxinfo & Hewlett Packard 
In February 2015, the Company signed a strategic partnership agreement with CS Loxinfo PCL 
(‘CS Loxinfo’), a leading systems integrator and Internet Services Provides (ISP) in Thailand, for 
an initial period of three years, and announced its partnership with Hewlett Packard (‘HP’) in 
June 2015. 
 
CS Loxinfo is one of the most long-standing and recognised ISP brands in Thailand with 
considerable and wide-reaching customer base whereas HP is one of the most successful and 
recognised IT solutions providers in the world. 
 
This innovative partnership provides enterprise and SME customers with multiple large-
bandwidth redundant connections to International and domestic Internet gateways over a 
secure and scalable on-premise or public cloud delivery environment. 
 
Oriented Media Group Bhd 
In July 2015, the Company secured an agreement with Oriented Media Group Bhd (‘OMEDIA’) 
to develop a comprehensive Business-to-Business (‘B2B’) e-commerce platform for small to 
medium sportswear manufacturers, wholesalers and retailers across Asia. 
 
OMEDIA is a Malaysia-based company focused on software and services across the logistics 
and digital media industries. The logistics business offers web-based management systems to 
manage complex logistics networks while the digital media business offers a range of services 
including publishing massive multiplayer online games (MMOG), internet Ad serving and the 
development of edutainment related products and services. OMEDIA is listed on the 
Malaysian stock exchange.  
 
Under the 24-month agreement, RapidCloud will supply all the necessary hardware and 
software for OMEDIA to develop an Online Sportswear Trading Platform (‘OSTP’) to enable 
manufacturers, initially across the Fujian province of the Peoples Republic of China (’PRC‘) to 
market and trade their products with wholesalers and retailers directly online. 
 
RapidCloud will also offer additional modules for OMEDIA to enhance the OSTP over the term 
of the agreement to enable users to manage their own virtual storefronts, track and monitor 
customer accounts and improve their own finance and human resources via additional 
proprietary cloud based software and services. 
 
Alibaba Cloud 
In March 2016, RapidCloud signed a strategic partnership with Alibaba.com Singapore E-
commerce Private Limited (’Alibaba Cloud’), the international business and cloud computing 
arm of the Alibaba Group (NYSE:BABA). 
 
Alibaba Cloud is one of the world's largest e-commerce companies, and was established in 
2009 to operate the network that powers Alibaba's extensive online and mobile commerce 
ecosystem with a comprehensive suite of cloud computing services globally.    
Chief Executive’s Statement 
5 
The partnership allows RapidCloud to offer Alibaba Cloud's public cloud infrastructure, 
consulting, managed services, training and support across its offices in South East Asia. 
RapidCloud will also make its key products available from Alibaba Cloud’s platform as a total 
service offering to its customers. After six months of research and development, RapidCloud's 
key products such as its enterprise content management system, sales automation tool and 
document management have already been developed to be tightly integrated onto Alibaba 
Cloud’s platform. This will allow Alibaba and Alibaba Cloud users to be able to subscribe to 
such services easily. 
 
The benefits of having RapidCloud's products on Alibaba Cloud platform include better 
reliability, faster access from various locations, including China and better scalability. At the 
same time, RapidCloud will also be working together with Alibaba Cloud and its parent 
company Alibaba to implement various go to market strategies and cross-selling 
opportunities. 
 
RapidCloud Singapore 
We are also pleased to report that RapidCloud Singapore has now become a Certified Partner 
of Google Inc. It is widely known that only the very best service providers receive the coveted 
Google Partner Badge and places RapidCloud Singapore amongst a small number of elite 
businesses offering services with this accreditation. 
 
This division is now a trusted agency of Google and listed on Google’s Partner Search, its 
proprietary online directory for trusted agencies for search engine optimisation and search 
engine marketing. As such, we expect RapidCloud to approach and secure larger contracts in 
the future with international ‘blue chip’ customers. 
 
SalesMAP Sdn. Bhd. 
Subsequent to the year end, SalesMAP Sdn. Bhd. was established in Malaysia to market and 
sell the Company’s flagship product, SalesMAP.  SalesMap is an intelligent sales system and a 
platform to build a structured sales process and manage sales performance. 
 
Whilst sales to date have been modest, the Company remains confident that this initiative will 
deliver significant shareholder value over the medium term. 
 
Product Development 
During the year the Company continued to invest in the development of new products and services 
and launched a number of new revenue initiatives during the year, specifically targeted at the needs 
of both existing and potential customers. 
 
RapidDocs 
The Company launched RapidDocs during the year, which provides Document Management 
Systems (‘DMS’) via the cloud. RapidDocs is believed to be one of the simplest and most cost 
effective DMS solution across Southeast Asia today. The DMS has been specifically designed 
to minimise the need for physical storage space, by eliminating duplicate documents, whilst 
ensuring collaboration on the most up to date copies are shared throughout the organisation 
for seamless collaboration. 
 
 
 
 
   
Chief Executive’s Statement 
6 
ManageWeb 
During the period, the Company successfully upgraded ‘ManageWeb’, its core website 
solution platform. Following the upgrade, which includes the addition of new features and 
operating enhancements, it has received significant new interest and recognition from its 
customer base by allowing them to optimise their user experience and enhance their business 
website. 
 
Internet of Things (‘IoT’) connectivity Management Solution 
The Company has now launched IoT Connectivity Management Solution that seamlessly 
addresses all the requirements of various industries currently deploying IoT solutions.  The IoT 
Connectivity Management Solution empowers them to collate, manage, monitor and report 
the data received from their IoT-enabled devices. 
 
Subsequent to the year end, the Company has also invested in the development of new cloud 
computing products and services. 
 
Disaster Recovery as a Service (‘DRaaS’) 
In May 2016, RapidCloud announced the launch of a Disaster Recovery as a Service. DRaaS is 
a cloud delivered disaster recovery managed service for protecting companies from loss of 
mission critical data in the event of a man-made or natural disaster. It is designed to ensure 
business continuity by minimising downtime and disruption in the event of server failure or 
other disaster. 
 
The Company signed two strategic partnerships, with Symphonet Sdn Bhd and Interlink 
Communication PCL in Malaysia and Thailand respectively, to market the DRaaS solution.  
 
Symphonet is a Malaysian fibre optic network operator offering dedicated high speed data 
Internet connections, wireless, Ethernet, leased lines, IP CCTV solutions, network services and 
network security services to over 1,000 businesses, large corporations and commercial 
buildings in Malaysia. 
 
Interlink is one of the largest fibre optic backbone providers in Thailand and is currently 
engaged in implementation of high speed structured telecommunication networks and 
distribution of networking solutions. Interlink is publicly traded on the mainboard of the Stock 
Exchange of Thailand (SET).  
 
These strategic partnerships allow Symphonet and Interlink to offer their customers a 
selection of RapidCloud's enterprise applications, beginning with DRaaS, which can be 
packaged together with their fibre connectivity, to provide a seamless and reliable high-speed 
transfer of critical data between the customer's primary server and RapidCloud's DRaaS 
facility. 
 
Ximplify 
Ximplify is a cloud business email service and is already one of the most affordable and fully-
featured business email in the market today. The Company will make this service available 
globally and Ximplify is the brand that will propel us to become a global cloud computing 
service provider. 
 
 
 
   
Chief Executive’s Statement 
7 
Outlook 
2015 was undoubtedly a period of consolidation with significant investment in products, services and 
the sales and marketing functions across the Company against a difficult market backdrop across the 
Southeast Asia region. 
 
The commercial agreements now signed, with both national and international organisations, 
demonstrate the strength of the Company’s products and services and the board believes the launch 
of the new products and services, coupled with the strong financial control of all aspects of the Group, 
has positioned the Company for significant and sustainable profitable growth during 2016 and beyond. 
 
 
 
Raymond Chee 
Chief Executive 
 
29 June 2016 
