 We are 
crea ting 
a mul ti-
channel 
future 
for rank
How has your first full year 
been? What have been the 
highlights and the lows?
My ﬁ rst full year has been a busy one, 
but one that I ﬁ nish feeling really 
positive about the business. And that 
is a sentiment that I think is reﬂ ected 
throughout the Group, driven most 
tangibly by our performance. It is 
difﬁ cult not to be positive with all 
our brands in growth both at the 
revenue and proﬁ t level. 
Growth in digital revenue – at 21% – 
is particularly pleasing and, in fact, 
if you compare just our second half 
performance, year-on-year, we are up 
25%. To some extent that digital growth 
is ahead of our external “schedule”, in 
that we haven’t yet moved to our new 
platform or implemented any signiﬁ cant 
changes. But it doesn’t surprise me, in 
that we have been making a number 
of incremental changes across the 
business – from launching new content 
and product (such as our new Mecca iPad 
app and a new device-agnostic front-end, 
giving consistency across PC, tablet and 
mobile) to improvements in our customer 
payments and VIP management. 
We’ve also hired a number of people and 
restructured the way we work, putting in 
place teams that work across our digital 
brands, including mobile, marketing, 
design, user experience, payments and 
customer contact. I believe we’ve now 
got a really strong digital team in place 
that can grow the business rapidly over 
the coming years. 
Another highlight has been Mecca’s retail 
performance this year. At ﬁ rst sight, stable 
revenues on a like-for-like club basis looks 
unremarkable. But against a backdrop of an 
industry that has faced declining revenues 
for many years, it is extremely encouraging. 
We’ve been candid about some of the 
challenges we face in Mecca – and these 
persist – but there is now a real sense of 
optimism and purpose within the 
Mecca business. 
And across the wider business – in 
Grosvenor and in Enracha – I feel we’ve 
got the right teams and strategies in 
place combined with a feeling of 
momentum and positive change. 
It is also gratifying to see our improved 
performance reﬂ ected in share price 
appreciation and to see new investors 
on our shareholder register.
Chief Executive’s Q&A
There have been few lows, but they have 
included taking the decisions to close some 
of our bingo venues. These are decisions 
that we never take lightly and we are aware 
of the impact they can have on the lives 
of our employees and our customers. But 
against that we face the reality that, whilst 
Mecca remains a very proﬁ table business, 
there is a small tail of venues that are 
unproﬁ table, either because of local 
dynamics, shifts in demographics or rents 
that become unsustainably high for us. 
In those circumstances, when we can exit 
lease commitments of under-performing 
venues, we need to be prepared to make 
those difﬁ cult decisions.
Finally – and this is not an issue unique 
to Rank – I have at times wished we 
could do things faster. When we do 
something we tend to do it well, but 
I would like to engender greater 
impatience and urgency throughout 
the business. That’s changing, and 
we deﬁ nitely have no shortage of ideas 
to put into action, so I expect to see 
a tangible difference in outlook and 
output in the coming years.
12  THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic report How is Rank’s strategy 
progressing? What further 
changes can we expect to see?
We outlined our strategy alongside our 
preliminary results last year. Our strategy 
itself hasn’t changed over the last 
12 months, but we have made good 
progress on a number of fronts. As 
outlined on pages 15 to 19, our strategy 
is focused on ﬁ ve key areas with digital 
growth and a multi-channel future at the 
heart of it. Gambling has arguably been 
slower than some other sectors, most 
notably retail and banking, at creating a 
compelling multi-channel proposition 
for customers. But I have no doubt that 
we will get there as an industry and that 
customers will place greater value on 
companies who can offer a joined up 
retail and digital experience than on 
digital-only operators. I also believe 
that Rank, with its membership-based 
retail businesses, loyalty programmes 
and strong service culture, is best 
placed in our industry to deliver that 
multi-channel experience. 
More broadly, our strategy now has greater 
credence within the business. We’ve taken 
the time to communicate what we are 
trying to do and why we are doing it 
throughout the Group. We’ve also moved 
the strategy on from ideas and principles 
to detailed speciﬁ c initiatives and projects 
and, crucially, have put timetables and 
capital requirements around our plans. 
We’re going to be busy for the next 
18 months and beyond. We are also 
comfortable that, despite building a 
company for the future, the investment 
required does not signiﬁ cantly alter the 
capital requirements that we’ve seen 
over the last few years, and that we can 
continue to grow our top and bottom lines.
What has the new management 
team brought to the Group?
We have made a number of changes in 
management over the course of the last 
year, such that half of our executive team 
are new in role within the last 14 months. 
Those appointments have brought a 
renewed sense of energy and purpose 
to the business and I think our recent 
improved performance is a testament 
to that. I feel we now have a really good 
combination of those with longevity of 
service and industry experience balanced 
with those having experience and skills 
gained in adjacent industries and sectors. 
At the heart of our management team 
has been an emphasis on collaboration, 
in the recognition that although we run 
a number of separate businesses and 
brands, there is much that is common 
to them all and that by pooling skills, 
resource and experience we have much 
to gain. We’re starting to see the ﬁ rst 
beneﬁ ts of a more collaborative approach 
across our brands and I think it can give 
us advantages in a number of areas over 
our single brand/business competitors. 
We’ve also made changes in management 
beneath the executive team, bringing in 
new talent, ideas and ways of working. But 
I am a believer that talent management is a 
project that is never complete – companies 
are living organisms and, whilst needing 
to maintain an element of stability and 
continuity, we need to constantly evolve 
and shape our management and teams 
for an ever-changing future. 
What are your key priorities 
for the next 12 months?
We have two main priorities for the next 
12 months. The ﬁ rst is to maintain our 
performance improvement. Rank has 
 “ Growth in digital 
revenue – at 21% – 
is particularly pleasing.”
had a really strong 12 months and 
we need to make sure we continue 
that momentum into the next ﬁ nancial 
year. We have the headwind of a whole 
year of digital gaming taxes (the “point 
of consumption tax” introduced in 
December 2014) versus the seven 
out of 12 months just passed, and our 
comparators will be that much more 
difﬁ cult coming out of a strong year. 
But against that, we have an ongoing 
schedule of initiatives and improvements 
that should continue to grow our 
business and we remain conﬁ dent 
that we’ll deliver on this objective. 
The second priority is to put in place 
some of the key building blocks for 
future growth. Most obvious amongst 
these is the launch of our new digital 
platform, supplied by Bede. Not only 
do we expect this to drive improved 
performance in our digital business, 
but it will be a key part in joining up 
our retail and digital systems. Those 
retail systems will also be upgraded 
with a multi-channel world in mind, 
albeit within the following ﬁ nancial 
year. The next 12 months will also see 
the launch of a new bingo club format 
and a new digital brand, both with clear 
growth potential, but grounded within 
a modest capital commitment. 
Whilst these two priorities can 
sometimes work against each other – 
new platforms often result in periods 
of disruption for a business – we are 
conﬁ dent that we will deliver on these 
two priorities and will have a business 
in fantastic shape this time next year 
with compelling future prospects. 
Henry Birch, Chief Executive
19 August 2015
  More information
Strategy and key performance indicators 15
Operating review 25
 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  13  “We’re proudly different to everyone else in the 
market and we wanted our website to reﬂ ect 
who we are and where we’re heading as a 
brand. The new Mecca website is just the 
beginning and we’ll continue to listen 
to our users, evolving our offering to 
further enhance their experience.”
Caroline Grindrod, 
Director of Customer Experience, Digital
Building digit al capability
Strategic priority
2
