 Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
3
Results for the Year ended 
31 December 2007
We generated a loss before tax of £4.8 million 
for the year ended 31 December 2007 (2006: 
£0.2 million proﬁt). Turnover for the year
decreased slightly from £71.8 million to £68.6
million, although, as in prior periods, comparisons
of turnover and relationship to proﬁt are not
directly relevant as the Company continues 
to evolve new business areas whilst there is a
decline in the traditional house building business.
The relative movement in proﬁtability is largely
accounted for by the fall in our gross operating
margin on the sale of our mainstream residential
property, increased overheads and holding costs 
in our Independent Living business (offset by proﬁts
in the Property Fund Management business) and
the fact that last years results were ﬂattered by 
the sale of strategic land which yielded a proﬁt 
of £3.4 million.
Despite the after tax loss for the year of 
£2.2 million, Net Assets increased by £1.7 million
from £80.3 million at the year end to £82.0 million
largely as a result of the net actuarial post tax gain
of £3.2 million in relation to the IAS 19 pension
fund surplus. It is important for shareholders to
recognise that Net Assets do not incorporate the
majority of the uplift in value of the four Audley
sites we have acquired (as inventories are stated 
at cost), the majority of the uplift on The Lakes
Chief Executive’s Report
second homes development and most importantly
the value of our Property Fund Management
division.
We moved from net cash of £8.8 million to net
debt of £31.9 million as we continued to invest
heavily in the Independent Living business and 
in completing a number of residential sites. 
Our current gearing level remains at a relatively
conservative 39%.
Operating Review
Our Company’s three principal areas of focus
continue to be Property Fund Management, 
the Development and Operation of Independent
Living facilities and Residential Development.
Property Fund Management
Our Company generated total fees of £8.3 million
(2006: £2.9 million excluding the £2.0 million
performance fee) producing an operating proﬁt of
£2.9 million (2006: a loss of £1.8 million excluding
the performance fee). As at the year end Raven
Mount was earning its core property advisory fee
of 2% on US$1,342 million (2006: US$465 million)
of gross assets purchased or committed to be
purchased by Raven Russia. We expect this ﬁgure
to increase signiﬁcantly over the next two years as
Raven Russia builds out its development portfolio
and completed investment property is revalued to
reﬂect market levels.
Inglewood, Kintbury (Audley). Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
4
We continue to devote signiﬁcant resources to this
and now employ over 60 people (excluding Raven
Mount directors) directly in helping Raven Russia
achieve its signiﬁcant aims. From a pure property
perspective we are delighted by the enormous
strides that we are making in helping to create 
a world class new-build logistics portfolio from
scratch in such a short space of time. It is therefore
particularly disappointing that the Raven Russia
share price has been unfairly tarnished by,
amongst other things, general sentiment against
property stocks and by investor perception of
political risk caused by the intermittent war of
words between the West and Russia. This not only
impacts the value of our shareholding in Raven
Russia but also means that we have not received 
a performance fee (since this is based on total
shareholder return i.e. share price movement and
dividends paid) for the year ended 31 December
2007 which our property efforts have merited.
These efforts are however reﬂected to some extent
in Raven Russia’s results for the corresponding year
end to ours. The reason why I say ‘to some extent’
is that neither the Raven Russia balance sheet nor
the income statement reﬂect the uplifts in value of
the substantial development sites we have helped
Raven Russia acquire as these are valued at cost
until they are complete and ready for occupation.
Nor indeed do the accounts reﬂect the value of 
the pipeline of deals.
Mark Kirkland has included some key ﬁnancial
information on Raven Russia in his Finance
Director’s report and we have also included, as 
a separate extract, our Property Adviser’s Report 
to the shareholders of Raven Russia. Nevertheless, 
I would strongly encourage shareholders to view
the full ﬁnancial statements for more details 
on the progress that we and Raven Russia are 
making (www.ravenrussia.co.uk).
Whilst a signiﬁcant number of people still continue
to be suspicious of undertaking business in Russia,
we believe that the business environment is not 
Chief Executive’s Report continued
as frightening as those who are unfamiliar with it
would choose to believe and is getting progressively
better. We are also lucky (although the use of 
that word does no justice to Anton and Glyn’s
considerable efforts in identifying them) with the
quality of the local joint venture partners with
whom we are working to help Raven Russia
develop its portfolio. As with all partners there 
are always issues to be resolved but as Samuel
Johnson said ‘Marriage has many pains but
celibacy has no pleasure’. We could not have
achieved what we have without them.
The political situation is stable given the recent
election of Dmitry Medvedev as President from
May. More and more international businesses are
recognising the strong macro economic factors
which are the drivers of the Russian economy 
and the need to have a presence in the market.
We have quoted a number of facts and statistics 
in past reports and I would like to add to those
courtesy of a recent article by Liam Halligan of 
The Sunday Telegraph:
• In 2007, the Russian economy grew by 8.1%
having grown an average 7% per annum 
since 1998.
• Russia’s reserves have increased from nothing 
in 1998 to US$480 billion today, the third
largest in the world.
• Russia is now almost debt free with a budget
surplus of 6% of GDP and a trade surplus
almost twice as much again.
• Three years ago Russia overtook Saudi Arabia 
to become the world’s largest oil exporter.
• Retail sales are growing at 13% per annum 
in real terms.
• Construction is growing by 16% per annum;
domestic investment by 20% per annum.
• Russia is now the 9th largest economy in 
the world and rising fast.
All these factors bode well for the logistics
business in which we are helping Raven Russia 
to invest and for our long term involvement 
in this economy.
“We are delighted by the enormous strides that
we are making in helping to create a world class
new-build logistics portfolio from scratch in
such a short space of time.” Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
5
Independent Living – Raven Audley Court plc
(operating as Audley)
We are still at the early stages of development 
of this business and the current year has been 
a period of consolidation with the normal
‘teething’ problems of a new business rather 
than one of spectacular progress.
Work in progress increased from £12.1 million to
£38.2 million which has been funded to date by
speciﬁc external banking facilities drawn down of
£14.0 million and the balance from internal Raven
Mount Group resources. No sales were made
during the year as we had no completed properties.
During the year we purchased Willicombe Park,
Tunbridge Wells from Nick Sanderson, CEO of
Audley, and his former business partner which 
was funded by another £4.0 million of bank debt.
As at 31 December 2007 we have four owned
development sites comprising 408 units in various
stages of construction, own one mature business
comprising 67 units and are managing two sites
comprising 101 units. We have 3 sites potentially
comprising approximately 260 units which we
have under contract on a subject to planning basis.
The exchange, on a subject to planning basis, on 
a further site comprising 67 units has been delayed
by the vendor due to difﬁculties with obtaining
vacant possession. Behind this there are a number
of potential deals in the pipeline. The market 
for land purchases in the ﬁrst half of last year 
was extremely difﬁcult because of the overheated
property market, particularly in this sector. The
market slowed in the second half of the year 
as vendors’ expectations of prices were slow 
to match the deteriorating market. However, 
I believe vendors will become more realistic as 
every passing month conﬁrms that the credit issue
is not a temporary one. Counter balancing this to 
some extent is the increasing number of players 
coming into this market competing for sites.
The construction industry overheated throughout
2007 not helped by the booming prices in raw
materials and it is only now, as residential developers
are reporting a reduction in future development
activity, that we would hope prices will stabilise.
We have had to make considerable efforts in trying
to control contractors’ costs and this, combined
with the longer time taken to put in place
construction ﬁnance, has resulted in delays on the
delivery of units. We now expect the ﬁrst delivery
of units on St Elphins and Mote Park in the third
quarter of this year and Inglewood and Ilkley 
in the ﬁrst half of next year. Audley is therefore 
not likely to be operationally proﬁtable until next
year. A lot will be dependent on sales activity.
The slowdown in general housing activity, upon
which I comment below, will have an impact on
sales to the extent that some of our residents will
need to sell their properties prior to completing
The Shushari St. Petersburg development (Raven Russia Limited). Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
6
the purchase of our units. However, we are likely
to suffer less than the normal residential vendor.
This is partly because our buyers are typically
selling family homes (rather than ﬂats) for which
there is generally an undersupply of stock and
great demand. Secondly, our potential residents
tend to have signiﬁcant equity in their houses and
are ‘downsizing’ to cheaper property. They are
themselves less sensitive to the prices achieved for
their own units and less reliant on the mortgage
market, which facilitates transactions. Thirdly, we
are, as with all developers, one end of a housing
chain. Finally, some of our purchasers are forced 
to move on a ‘needs’ basis and may, for example,
have the potential to gear up on their existing
house to release equity to purchase one of our
units. Having said that, we must remain realistic
and recognise that the speed of sales may be
affected and we will endeavour to come up with
ideas which help potential residents facilitate the
move to our units.
Nevertheless we remain conﬁdent of this sector,
the dynamics driving it and the ability to deliver
long term returns.
Residential Development
There is no doubt in my mind that we are currently
experiencing the worst conditions in the mainstream
residential property market in the UK since the
early Nineties. A signiﬁcant reason for this is the
Chief Executive’s Report continued
increasingly tighter lending practices of the UK
banking institutions towards both end purchasers
and developers. A lack of liquidity provision 
by the banks has a huge impact on the level of
transactions in the mainstream residential market
and this was best demonstrated by the latest
statistic from the Bank of England which showed
that there had been a 40% fall in the mortgages
approved for new buyers in January 2008
compared to January 2007. Tighter lending criteria
in particular have an impact on the ﬁrst time 
buyer market and the buy to let markets which 
are perhaps the key components of the housing
food chain.
Shareholders will note that we have taken a very
negative stance on the UK Housebuilding sector
over the past few years and as a result of that 
we have not purchased any new pure residential
property sites other than those acquired through the
acquisition of Raven Property Holdings (RPH) three
years ago and we continue to maintain this stance.
All housing stock from the Swan Hill subsidiary 
has been disposed during the year, including the
sale of all the units at the last remaining site in
Swindon. This was quicker than I forecast in the
last annual report and this was as a direct result 
of a large number of investor sales at discounts to
asking prices which nevertheless were within the
provisions that we had made. Shareholders will be
The Lakes joint venture with Yoo, Coln Park, Lechlade in the Cotswolds. Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
7
aware that Swan Hill acted as a main contractor
on most of its sites, including the Swindon site,
and therefore legacy issues will remain to be dealt
with over the next few years but we believe that
we have made appropriate provisions in respect 
of likely issues.
With respect to mainstream residential sites
acquired as part of the RPH purchase we are left
with one construction completed site, three sites
which are currently under construction and one
large site where we have been reluctant to
commence construction.
During the year we completed the construction 
of our 247-unit New England Quarter, Brighton
Station development. As at the year end 27 units
remained to be sold of which 12 have been sold
since the year end, 1 exchanged, 1 reserved and
13 remaining to be sold. Under the terms of our
JV agreement with Barratt I expect the year end
stock value of £1.5 million to be converted into
cash before the year end.
Sales interest has slowed considerably on the 
three sites that are currently under construction 
as the days of selling a substantial number of
properties off plan have diminished; this tends 
to happen when prices are perceived to be falling!
We are expecting construction completion at our 
54-unit Lewes scheme (www.theprintworkslewes.co.uk)
by the half year. Of the 40 private units we are
currently exchanged on 24 units (£8.1 million 
by value) and have a further unit (£0.3 million) 
under offer. The remaining 15 units are valued at 
£4.1 million at current asking prices. We have also
exchanged on the 14 social housing units which
will release an additional £0.5 million of cash.
There is a limited supply of housing stock in the
Lewes market and this should assist sales of our
remaining units.
The 51-unit residential and 9,000 sq ft commercial
Brackley scheme (www.collegeplacebrackley.co.uk)
is expected to be construction complete within 
the next year. All the commercial space is currently
under offer and if these offers conclude this will
yield an approximate rental income of £0.1 million
and a capital value of approximately £1.5 million.
We have undertaken limited marketing of the
residential units which are valued at £10.6 million
at current asking prices but expect this to pick up
as we near completion. As noted above there is
currently a limited demand for purchasing units 
off plan and we have taken the decision to focus
the marketing budget on this site to nearer the
expected date of practical completion. This is a 
JV with the South Northamptonshire Council and
some of our risk on this site is mitigated by the
variable site price payable to the council.
We also expect the 149-unit residential, 
12,000 sq ft commercial Shefﬁeld Phase 1 scheme
(www.kelhamriverside.com) to be construction
completed within the next year. We have currently
exchanged on 50 units valued at £6.6 million, 
have 12 units valued at £1.7 million under offer
with 87 units valued at £13.8 million remaining to
be sold. Of the commercial space we have 2,300
sq ft under offer at a rent of £21,850. We remain
cautious on residential sales rates on this site 
until the site is nearer completion.
The only site on which we have not commenced
development on is the 339-unit Shefﬁeld Phase II
site on which we received vacant possession in
January 2008. We do not currently intend to start
construction on this site and we will market this
site with a view to disposing of the site if a
reasonable price can be obtained in the market.
We have written down the value of this site by
£2.6 million in the year end ﬁgures to reﬂect our
negative outlook on the UK housing market.
We continue to hold a strategic land bank of
owned sites and sites under option which can 
be acquired at varying percentages of their 
market value. These strategic sites are carried at
£0.9 million in our balance sheet but we would
hope that with a fair wind and a lot of patience
these could be worth several times that ﬁgure over 
the medium to long term without comparatively
too much additional expenditure. Whilst we have 
no current intention to develop these sites should 
they gain planning consents we will review the
situation nearer the time.
We also have one second homes scheme, 
The Lakes joint venture with Yoo, at Coln Park,
Lechlade in the Cotswolds (www.thelakesbyyoo.com),
on which we currently have outline planning
permission for 160 second homes, of which 
52 currently have detailed consent, and a hotel.
We are pleased with the buyer response that we
have received given the limited marketing that 
we have done to date. We have exchanged on 
15 of these units at an average price of £900,000
and have a further 15 under offer at an average
price of over £1 million.
Cash and Liquidity
Whatever happened to all that liquidity? It seems
to have been disappearing since last summer 
even quicker than Gordon Brown’s ratings or 
non-domiciles! Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
8
Liquidity, both in terms of access to capital and 
the number of transactions being undertaken, is
the life blood of the property industry. The banking
heart that circulates that liquidity is suffering from
recurring, but to date, minor heart attacks and is
having to be resuscitated each time by the US Fed
and/or various Sovereign Funds. If the banks are
scared of dealing with each other (you just have to
look at Libor rates over the last eight months) just
think how much more nervous they are of lending
to their clients!
With few exceptions, the general approach of the
banks in the property sector has been to reduce
access to debt, make it more expensive and more
restrictive and where liquidity is made available to
focus lending on quality clients. This response is to
be expected as the banks seek to rebuild their own
balance sheets but what it inevitably means is that
business life has become much tougher and, in my
opinion, will continue to do so for the foreseeable
future. This will inevitably have a huge impact on
returns on equity on those industries and sectors
that are capital intensive.
It is worth considering the impact of this on our
main areas of operation.
The level of gearing is particularly important 
to our fund management business as we receive
our property advisory fees based on the level of
Raven Russia’s gross assets and not net assets.
There is no doubt that the credit crunch has
reduced the appetite of Western banks to lend 
in their ‘secondary’ markets and to syndicate.
Having said that, an increasing number of Western
banks are entering the Russian banking market
(e.g. Barclays announcement of a few weeks 
ago of the purchase of Expobank) realising the
potential of a Russian market showing average
GDP growth of 7% per annum since 1998,
although many of them have yet to transact
anything substantial. They are attracted by margins
on lending which yield them substantially greater
proﬁts than in more mature economies. When
they do decide to lend, Raven Russia will inevitably
be near the top of the queue as it is seen to be 
a quality client with a strong balance sheet. An
indication of this is the recent announcement by
Raven Russia that it had secured reﬁnancing on
four of its properties at a weighted average cost 
of debt of 6.6% in US Dollars with the yield to
cost on the properties of 13% and gearing of
82.5% on cost. Although margins on lending 
have widened this has been more than offset by
the fall in US Libor. We therefore take the view
Chief Executive’s Report continued
that, to the extent that it is available, credit will
continue to be available for Raven Russia prior 
to most of its competitors to enable it to fulﬁl its
business plan although it will take more time to
implement as the banks will remain cautious in their
approach, particularly in the syndication market.
What is more likely to limit the growth of Raven
Russia in the short term is the ability to raise
additional equity when the shares are trading at a
substantial discount to NAV. It is therefore likely that
once Raven Russia’s funds are fully invested Raven
Mount will seek to leverage the extensive and costly
platform that we have established in this area by
seeking joint ventures with major third party investors
who are seeking exposure to the Russian property
market and more generally other former CIS countries.
The banks are also very much attracted by the
Independent Living sector because of the expected
growth supported by strong demographic trends
and the huge under provision in this sector 
(one major Investment Bank who have made a
huge investment in this sector in Australia and
New Zealand recently informed me that we were 
15-20 years behind them). Once again they are
keen to lend and once again they see our Audley
business as a quality client. Nevertheless, they have
been much quicker to change their recommended
terms, make them more onerous and take much
longer in providing debt. There is no doubt that
this has slowed us down more than we would have
liked and has meant that we will have to devote
more equity to the business than we would wish.
We have therefore taken the view that, given the
more restrictive gearing available, the size of the
opportunity in this sector and the need to maintain
momentum, we will consider seeking a ﬁnancial
joint venture partner for this business.
The biggest impact of the credit crisis and the
general malaise in the housing market has been 
in our approach to the development of a potential
international second home niche area within
Residential Development. In general, we have
taken the approach to retrench and to focus on
one major site in the Caribbean, which we are
hoping to buy subject to planning (and which is
still in the early stages of master planning).
Our other activities are currently funded out of
equity and a group level overdraft. We are fortunate
that our gearing is relatively low and our fund
management cash ﬂow is strong and getting
stronger but whenever I try to take solace from
that I am reminded of that old adage that in these
sort of circumstances if you owe the banks a lot  Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
9
of money they are the ones who have a problem
but if you owe the banks a small amount of money
you are the one with the problem!
For those who have been following the US
Presidential election process, let’s hope the liquidity
markets make a John McCain style comeback!
Swan Hill Pension Scheme
Under International Accounting Standard 19 the
2006 scheme deﬁcit of £1.1 million on a pre-tax
basis had become a ‘surplus’ of £5.0 million. The
main factors behind this are detailed in the Finance
Director’s Report. Sounds good doesn’t it?
Unfortunately, I do not think we are standing on
ﬁrm footings as the accounting for pension schemes
is like standing on shifting sand and hoping, nay
praying, you are not about to be sucked into quick
sand. The UK Accounting Standards Board (‘ASB’)
has recently proposed changes which makes me
think that we are about to be. The ASB is proposing
two major changes which will have a fundamental
impact on the accounting of schemes. Firstly, they
are proposing that the present value of future
liabilities should be discounted using the ‘risk-free
rate’, which basically means that the rate should
be based on the relatively low returns on
government bonds, rather than double A-rated
bonds, and would therefore make liabilities
signiﬁcantly bigger. I do not agree with this when
the underlying assets are in fact invested in a range
of investments which carry varying rates of return
and risk – it only makes sense to me if schemes
were forced to invest in such ‘risk-free’ assets. We
can all guess what is coming next! Such accounting
does not change the actual pension liability itself,
which is the actual amount which will be paid to
pensioners over the next seventy odd years, merely
the recording of it today. Secondly, the ASB is
proposing removing the current provisions which
allow for averaging of the discount rate which
means that there will be bigger swings in pension
scheme values. Pension liabilities are long term
liabilities payable over several decades and should
not be subject to the vagaries of such adjustments.
Further pressure is being applied by the pensions
regulator increasingly dictating to schemes the
minimum longevity assumptions to be used in
actuarial valuations; a highly relevant issue to us 
as the next actuarial valuation is due as at 5 April
2008. Recent draft guidance from the regulator
indicates that it would take a closer look at scheme
funding plans which use assumed mortality
improvements less prudent than the PA92 Long
Cohort assumptions, which currently would be
almost all of them! The PA92 Long Cohort
assumptions would add around 4 years to the life
expectancy of our Scheme’s membership compared
to the PMA92/PFA92 standard tables used in the 
2005 actuarial valuation. Each additional year of
life expectancy adds about 5% to pension liabilities.
The net result of all these changes will be to
increase pension scheme funding and lead to
increased volatility in reporting earnings and 
net asset values. This will only add further 
pressure on those schemes which have not 
already closed to new members to do so 
and for those that have, such as ours, to pay
insurance companies to take them over. That is 
the position we as a Company ﬁnd ourselves in. 
In my 2005 Chief Executive’s Report, I indicated
that we would await developments in the
‘insurance industry which may come up with
products whereby the risk and volatility can be
passed on to third parties with stronger balance
sheets than ours’. The time is with us as a number
of players (Aegon, Norwich Union, Paternoster,
Pension Insurance Corporation, Synesis Life, etc)
have entered the UK deﬁned beneﬁt pension buy-
out market in competition to the more established
incumbents Legal & General and the Prudential.
This has made the market signiﬁcantly more
competitive and we, along with most other
companies in a similar position, are considering 
our options accordingly.
In the meantime, it is worth emphasising 
again that our Independent Living business
provides some ‘hedge’ against the residual 
pension fund risk that we carry because, for
example, the very demographic trends that work
against us on the pension fund also work for 
us in the Independent Living business. But, and 
it’s a big but, that comment only applies in the
long run.
Acquisition of Raven Property 
Holdings plc (‘RPH’)
Shareholders will be aware that the Company
purchased RPH in December 2004 for a total
consideration of up to £39.9 million, all payable 
in shares depending upon the value of assets it
acquired (as and when they received detailed
planning permission) providing that such permission
was received within the period to 31 December
2007. During the year the Company issued
3,919,323 shares at an average price of 142p
representing £5.6 million by value, being the
balance of the maximum consideration.  Raven Mount plc   Report and Accounts 2007
10
Chief Executive’s Report continued
ending 31 December 2006 of 1.6 pence (excluding
the 5 pence Special Dividend). This will be payable
to shareholders whose name appears on the
Register of Members as at 18 April 2008 and
payable on 16 May 2008.
Prospects
We live in uncertain and volatile economic times 
in an increasingly inter-linked world which makes
any forecasting hazardous. I have talked about 
the wonderful prospects of our two new business
areas in recent reports and whilst the current
business environment might delay the realisation
of these prospects I continue to believe that we
will be able to deliver in terms of hard numbers
before our self imposed 5 year ‘re-invention’
period which commenced at the end of 
December 2004.
The movement in our share price over the last 
year has been very disappointing, even for those 
of us that do not attach much value to it in the
short term, but it has to be put in the context of a
general malaise in the market – we also have been
tarnished more speciﬁcally with the commercial
property brush, the housebuilding brush, the
Russian brush, the AIM brush and probably Basil
Brush when the share price fell to 70 pence! There
is some small comfort to be gained from a recent
edition of the Investors Chronicle which included
us in their list of the 6 most under valued stocks
out of the 3,000 they looked at.
As always I should like to conclude by thanking 
my fellow Directors, our staff, our advisers and 
our partners for their guidance, efforts and
perseverance during the year.
Bim Sandhu
Chief Executive
18 March 2008
Essentially, this means that any residual value
generated by those assets is for the beneﬁt of all
Raven Mount shareholders under the terms of the
Acquisition Agreement.
Overall, the consideration of £39.9 million has
been paid for by the issue of 49,140,984 shares 
at an average price of approximately 81p, which
coincidentally is the share price of the Company as
I write the ﬁrst draft of my Report. £7.5 million of
the consideration of £39.9 million was goodwill
which was effectively written off on consolidation
on the acquisition of RPH. This goodwill has more
than been repaid in the setting up of our fund
management business (never mind the goodwill 
on Audley) whose value is not reﬂected in the net
assets of the Company.
I thought it would be useful to provide a broad
reconciliation of the Net Assets we acquired on the
takeover of Swan Hill in December 2003 versus the
Net Assets as at 31 December 2007 as this has
been raised by a number of shareholders:
£’m
Net Assets as at 31 December 2003 
(including £2m capital introduced by RM) 72.5
Consideration paid for RPH 39.9
Subtotal 112.4
Goodwill on RPH written off on acquisition (7.5)
Losses in the period 2004-2007 (8.6)
Dividends paid (including 2006 5p Special) (10.4)
Payments to Pension Scheme (8.9)
Pension fund asset net of deferred tax 3.9
Other movements 1.1
Net Assets as at 31 December 2007 82.0
Of course, we now have 2 businesses which have
a substantial goodwill value which is not reﬂected
in the year end Net Asset position. I should also
note that Net Assets includes £2.7 million of losses
attributable to Minority Shareholders and therefore
Shareholders Funds are actually £84.7 million.
Dividends
The Directors continue to adopt a progressive
dividend policy reﬂecting our faith in the Company’s
business models. The Directors therefore propose
to pay a Final Dividend of 1.4 pence per ordinary
share, making the total dividend paid in respect 
of the year to 31 December 2007, 2.2 pence per
ordinary share, an increase of 37.5 % compared 
to the Ordinary dividend relating to the year
