 We are 
Improving
 business
performance
Dear shareholder
Strategy
In August 2014, Rank’s chief executive, 
Henry Birch, set out the Group’s strategy 
to create long-term sustainable growth 
for the Group and its shareholders 
through the following ﬁ ve pillars:
1. Create a compelling 
multi-channel offer;
2. Build a strong digital capability; 
3. Invest in our brands and marketing;
4. Continue to develop our venues; and
5. Harness technology to improve our 
customer experience and drive 
operating efﬁ ciency.
The Group has made signiﬁ cant progress 
towards its strategic objectives and has 
delivered a very strong operating 
performance across all the brands. 
More detail of progress made in 2014/15 
is outlined on pages 25 to 31.
Financial performance
The Group has performed strongly in 
the year, with every brand improving 
its proﬁ tability on a like-for-like basis.
I am particularly delighted that H2 
saw an improvement on H1 despite the 
headwind from the imposition of Remote 
Gaming Duty (“RGD”) from 1 December 
2014. Overall revenue was up 4% to 
£738.3m, with a like-for-like stabilisation 
in our Mecca venues and strong growth 
in our brand digital channels ahead of 
the implementation of the new digital 
platform. The reduction in bingo duty 
to 10% offset the introduction of RGD at 
15% during the year and has resulted in 
a net beneﬁ t of £4.7m, which, along with 
improvements across all brands, led to 
a 9% growth in EBITDA to £126.3m. 
Cash ﬂ ow remains strong and we 
ended the year with net debt 61% 
lower at £52.9m.
Operating responsibly
The Rank board is fully committed to 
upholding the licensing objectives, as set 
out in the Gambling Act 2005, with the 
aim of ensuring that all our customers 
enjoy our products responsibly. 
Following two speciﬁ c cases, the UK 
Gambling Commission brought to our 
attention deﬁ ciencies in the application 
of our policies and procedures relating 
to anti-money laundering and responsible 
gambling. We are taking remedial actions 
and have commissioned an externally 
led review of our responsible gambling 
and anti-money laundering controls to 
provide us with further assurance that 
we are taking appropriate steps in these 
areas. We will continue to aim for the 
highest standards, in keeping with our 
commitment to upholding the 
licensing objectives. 
National living wage 
The introduction of the national living 
wage will impact the last quarter of 
2015/16. In common with other leisure 
operators, the Group has a number 
of employees who will beneﬁ t from 
its introduction. This will result in 
additional operating costs but the 
Group believes a majority of these 
can be mitigated over time.
Taxation
From 30 June 2014, bingo duty was 
reduced from 20% to 10% and resulted 
in a £11.3m tax reduction in the year. 
This duty cut funded a reduction 
in prices to our customers, the 
recommencement of a venues 
refurbishment programme and an 
increase in Mecca’s capital investments 
in product and technology.
From 1 December 2014, RGD at 15% was 
applied to all online gambling revenue 
generated by customers in the UK. The 
cost to the Group in the year was £6.6m.
VAT claims
Following the Court of Appeal decision 
regarding claims for overpaid VAT on 
certain types of amusement machines, 
Rank applied for leave to appeal to 
The Supreme Court. Rank was granted 
permission and the appeal was heard 
on 21 April 2015. On 8 July 2015, The 
Supreme Court issued their decision in 
favour of HMRC, which concludes this 
line of litigation. Rank repaid £25.2m of 
the £30.7m received in connection with 
these claims to HMRC in May 2014 and 
has fully provided for the remainder. As a 
consequence, the decision has no impact 
on Rank’s ﬁ nancial performance or 
balance sheet strength in 2014/15 
or future periods.
Listing Rules 
On 7 July 2014 the Company made 
a formal submission to the UK Listing 
Authority (“UKLA”) requesting it to 
modify LR 6.1.19 R, so that it could 
continue to be a premium listed 
Chairman’s letter
6  THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic report  “The board and I would like to thank 
all of the Group’s 11,000 employees 
for their endless enthusiasm, hard 
work and commitment.”
company with a slightly lower free ﬂ oat 
percentage than 25%. On 27 August 
2014 the UKLA formally agreed to 
modify LR 6.1.19 R to accept a free 
ﬂ oat of 23%.
On 18 February 2015, GuoLine Overseas 
Limited (“GuoLine”), a subsidiary of 
Hong Leong Company (Malaysia) Berhad 
(“Hong Leong”), sold 50 million ordinary 
shares in Rank, thereby reducing Hong 
Leong’s interest in Rank’s shares to 
approximately 56.09%. As a result the 
Group now has a free ﬂ oat of greater 
than 25% and is no longer in breach 
of LR 6.1.19.
Management team changes
On 23 September 2014, Colin Cole-
Johnson joined Rank as group director of 
digital and cross-channel services. Colin 
has over 15 years’ international digital 
gaming experience and is responsible for 
the integration and delivery of Rank’s 
multi-channel offer.
During 2014/15, Phil Urban left the 
Group after serving six years as managing 
director of Grosvenor Casinos and has 
been succeeded by Mark Jones (formerly 
managing director of Mecca).
On 5 January 2015, Martin Pugh joined 
Rank as managing director of Mecca. 
Martin has a wealth of experience in 
marketing, gambling and multi-site 
leisure, having previously run Virgin 
Active UK and Camelot’s UK business.
On 9 September 2015, Paul Richardson 
will join the Group’s management team 
as group director of strategy and 
corporate development. Paul is a former 
investment banker and corporate lawyer, 
who has worked both in an advisory 
and management capacity in the gaming 
sector. Most recently he was a senior vice 
president of international development 
at Galaxy Entertainment Group, one of 
the largest casino operators in Macau.
Management incentivisation
On 22 April 2015, a general meeting 
was held at which two resolutions were 
put to the Company’s shareholders for 
consideration and approval. The ﬁ rst was 
regarding proposed amendments to the 
Group’s long-term incentive plan for its 
employees and executive directors and 
further details can be found on pages 
64 to 65. The second resolution was 
regarding proposed amendments to 
the directors’ remuneration policy. Both 
resolutions proposed were approved by 
the Company’s shareholders and further 
detail can be found on the Company’s 
corporate website at www.rank.com/en/
investors/shareholder-centre/
shareholder-meetings.html.
Board
On 1 June 2015, Chris Bell joined Rank’s 
board as a senior independent director 
and will also serve on Rank’s audit 
committee. Chris brings with him 
extensive experience of the gambling 
industry and considerable corporate 
experience and is an excellent addition 
to the board.
On 1 September 2015, Susan Hooper will 
join our board and she will seek election 
by shareholders at our forthcoming 
annual general meeting on 15 October 
2015. Details of her background and 
experience can be found in our notice of 
annual general meeting. Shaa Wasmund 
will not be seeking re-election at our 
annual general meeting and I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank her for 
her contribution to the board.
Dividend
The board targets a progressive and 
sustainable dividend. This dividend policy 
reﬂ ects the strong cash ﬂ ow characteristics 
and long-term earnings potential of 
the Group, whilst allowing it to retain 
sufﬁ cient capital to fund ongoing 
operating requirements, investment and 
balance sheet management. The board 
is recommending a ﬁ nal dividend of 
4.00 pence per share to be paid on 
21 October 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at 11 September 2015. This will 
take the full year dividend to 5.60 pence 
per share, a 24% increase on last year. 
The Group’s dividend cover has as a 
result reduced to 2.6 times from 2.8 
times in the prior year.
Finally, the board and I would like 
to thank all of the Group’s 11,000 
employees for their endless enthusiasm, 
hard work and commitment. I am always 
impressed by how each member of staff 
strives to provide the best customer 
experience and I am delighted that their 
efforts are recognised in improved 
business performance.
Current trading and outlook
Trading in the short seven-week period 
to 16 August 2015 has continued in line 
with the trends seen in 2014/15 and is 
in line with management’s expectations.
Rank remains in a strong ﬁ nancial 
position, possesses market leading 
brands and has a clear strategy for 
long-term growth.
Ian Burke, Chairman
19 August 2015
  More information
Operating responsibly 33
Governance 45
 THE RANK GROUP PLC: Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  7
