 Our task for 2011 was relatively straightforward. Continue to let
the portfolio and improve returns and cash-flow through
refinancing.
We have been helped by a strong level of tenant demand and
have done as well as we could have hoped.
When we started Raven Russia the aim was to create a high
quality, income producing portfolio of grade A warehouses.
It feels like we are nearly there. 1.03 million sqm of finished
space, 92% let, with an annualised NOI (including PLAs and
LOIs) at today's date of $129 million. We are profitable and
cash generative and have now started to make the meaningful
distributions to shareholders that we have always planned. This
should continue to improve as we let up our remaining vacant
space. 
The completed portfolio will produce $137 million of NOI when
fully let, so there is still potential for further growth from the
existing portfolio as well as the potential from developing out
our land.
Report and Accounts tend to be repetitive but I am more than
happy to repeat our key numbers:
• Annualised NOI up to $129 million;
• Profit before tax up to $128.9 million;
• Fully diluted NAV per share 119 cents;
• Distribution per share 3 pence; and
• A year end cash balance $181.8 million.
So looking back is lovely, what about looking forward?
There is some clear built in growth as we let our remaining
vacant space and annualised NOI rises towards $137 million.
Everything in the occupiers’ market today suggests that we will
achieve this in the short term. That will enable us to continue a
progressive distribution policy and should enhance NAV per
share as well.
Chief Executive’s Report
6
Noginsk, Moscow, works for X5 who leased 76,000m
2
.   
7
Chief Executive’s Report – continued
In addition, the 119 cents of NAV per share is derived from a
portfolio valuation at an average, fully let yield of 11.9% (2010:
12.8%), which still has potential to improve.
The key to our next phase of growth is investment and the use
of our cash. The plan is to combine further development and
acquisition of income producing assets. We are in the process
of acquiring attractive land plots in the North of Moscow where
we believe tenant demand is strong and competition limited.
Initial cautious appraisals suggest unleveraged cash on cash
returns of around 14% should be achievable. We are confident
that we can increase the portfolio by 50,000sqm to
100,000sqm per annum on this basis, from our own resources.
High quality completed assets yielding 11.5% funded with
conservative bank debt gives a high income return on equity.
This is earnings enhancing and immediately contributes to our
capacity to make distributions to shareholders. We are looking
at a number of acquisitions and have active negotiations in
progress including one potentially significant acquisition which
would require shareholder approval.
One option open to us to fund income producing investments
would be a further issue of preference shares. We are currently
exploring this option and at a 9% yield this would be an
attractive funding option for the Group.
So, we have had a good year, the Group’s financials are strong
and the market place is helping us. What is there to worry
about? There are still a lot of global problems. The main direct
issue for us is the small pool of debt providers to our market.
Despite high margins and reliable cash flows the twin terrors of
“Russia” and “property” keep most institutions away. This helps
us in constraining development and discouraging competition
but reduces our returns and slows our growth.
In general though, business is going well and there is no other
asset class or country where we would rather be.
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
11 March 2012
