 5
RAVEN RUSSIA LIMITED 2014 ANNUAL REPORT
I concluded my message in the 2013 Annual Report with the hope that the events in Ukraine would soon settle peaceably. Unfortunately,  
12 months later, it remains headline news and has now been joined by an unforeseen and rapid drop in both the oil price and the Rouble. 
The positive news is that our operating results for 2014 have exceeded our expectations given the international sanctions that have been in place 
for the majority of the year. Underlying earnings have increased from $60million to $67million, our investment property portfolio was virtually 
fully let throughout the year, our weighted average term to debt maturity is now 4.8 years and our weighted average lease term is 4.2 years.  
At today’s date, we have $247million of free cash, the majority held in the Guernsey holding companies. 
Unfortunately and inevitably, the geopolitical events and resulting depreciation of the Rouble at the year end have affected our balance sheet. 
Investment property and property under construction valuations have decreased by $145million (2013: increase of $55million) and the US Dollar 
equivalent value of our Rouble denominated assets by $45million. This has resulted in an IFRS loss after tax for the year of $88million (2013: loss 
of $4million) and a fully diluted, adjusted net asset value per share of 106cents (2013: 126cents).
Despite the prevailing negative sentiment on Russia, we have been able to refinance $275million of our debt during the year, reducing our 
overall cost of debt from 7.2% to 7.0%. Since the year end, we have also drawn a further $66million on existing facilities, a significant achievement 
in the current market.
Our proposed final distribution, equivalent to 3.5p per share, makes a total of 6p per share for 2014, a 20% increase on 2013 and reflects the 
successful operating results in the year. Again, we intend to distribute by way of a tender offer buyback of 1 in every 14 ordinary shares at 48p  
per share.
The current year will be an important one for Raven Russia. We have made every effort to mitigate the effects on our business of the various 
macroeconomic and political events facing the Russian economy and we will continue to do so. We are naturally cautious on the outlook for  
the current year and the significant uncertainties regarding Ukraine, the oil price and the currency. We are strong financially, with an effective 
local management team in Russia and are well-placed to benefit from any economic recovery.
As always, I would like to thank our shareholders, employees, advisers and all of our stakeholders for their continued support in a  
challenging period.
Richard Jewson
Chairman
8 March 2015
CHAIRMAN’S  
MESSAGE
