 5
RAVEN RUSSIA LIMITED 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
My message this year continues to be one of caution and our strategy remains defensive. Macro-economic events have again overshadowed our 
business efforts. The impact of the fall in oil price, corresponding Rouble decline and continuing international sanctions weigh heavily on our 
results for 2015.
The most obvious outcome is a significant reduction in the value of our investment portfolio. The fall in market value for the year is $256 million 
which contributes to a reduction in fully diluted, adjusted net asset value (“NAV”) per share to 70 cents (2014: 106 cents) and an IFRS loss after tax 
of $192 million (2014: loss of $88 million).
Despite this, our year end cash balance was $202 million, the investment portfolio is 82% let (2014: 94%) and net operating income (“NOI”) for the 
year was $174 million (2014: $192 million) producing underlying earnings after tax of $55 million (2014: $67 million).
The rapid depreciation of the Rouble has had a fundamental impact on our operating environment. The majority of new lettings are now Rouble 
denominated rather than US Dollar pegged. There is some compensation in that annual lease indexation is linked to Russian inflation (12.9% 
for 2015) on these leases. The trend of Rouble denominated leases is likely to continue, at least while the Rouble remains volatile and at current 
exchange rate levels. The increase in vacancy rate during the year is a result of those tenants with weaker covenants and those smaller businesses 
exposed primarily to the import market succumbing to the pressures of this new environment. 
Our cautious strategy of focusing on cashflow and quality of income means we are not building speculatively nor planning any acquisitions. 
However, given the underlying profits generated during the year we propose a final distribution of the equivalent of 1p per share (2014: 3.5p) 
by way of a tender offer buy-back of 1 in every 40 ordinary shares at 40p per share. That will give a distribution for the year equivalent to 2p per 
share (2014: 6p). 
Whilst we expect trading conditions will continue to be difficult throughout 2016, our market has proven to be relatively resilient in the face 
of such severe events. New supply into our market is very limited and market research forecasts a tightening in vacancy rates over the next 18 
months. Any improvement in the Rouble:US Dollar exchange rate will provide us with immediate benefit. Meanwhile we remain a market leading 
business with excellent investment property assets.
When the market gods smile on you and things are good, it is easy to congratulate your team and applaud their efforts. However, when the 
markets turn and events are as severe as they have been for the business in the last year, the real qualities of your team come to the fore.  
We have a talented and robust Executive and Senior Management group who have now been together for over ten years and are steering their 
way admirably through the obstacles being placed in their way on almost a daily basis. It is a stressful and challenging time for them. They have 
an experienced and supportive Non Executive Board who understand the business and market environment and they have developed a strong 
and loyal employee base. They also have the benefit of a group of advisers, some of whom have worked with the Group since its inception, who 
share in the team’s enthusiasm for the Raven Russia brand and culture.
I would like to thank all of those involved for their hard work over the year and for the efforts to come. 
Richard Jewson
Chairman
13 March 2016
CHAIRMAN’S  
MESSAGE
