 6 | 7
Chairman’s Message
It is now five years since the Group changed its structure following the acquisition of its property advisers. At that time 
we were in the middle of a global financial crisis and were completing 675,500 square metres (“sqm”) of new, speculative 
development. It needed strong management to deal with the uncertainties we faced. We anchored our balance sheet 
with an issue of preference shares, without significant dilution to our ordinary shareholders and stuck to our belief 
that the market we operated in was chronically under supplied and that we could deliver a superior return for our 
shareholders. The highlights follow the journey that we have been on over the last five years and vindicate our strategy 
through those difficult times.
Today, we have 1.4 million sqm of completed assets and occupancy is running at 97%, with annualised Net Operating 
Income (“NOI”) of $192 million. Underlying earnings, one of our key measures for covered distributions to ordinary 
shareholders, has increased from a loss of $27 million in 2009 to a profit of $60 million at 31 December 2013, a number 
which I hope will increase further with a full year of rental income at today’s occupancy level.
With a mature portfolio, we have taken the opportunity to adjust our balance sheet weighting, converting half of our 
preference shares to ordinary shares with a 1 for 2 offer which was oversubscribed. This reduces our adjusted diluted 
NAV per share but has no significant impact on our earnings per share, the saving on preference share coupon 
compensating for the increase in the number of ordinary shares. As an investment company whose strategy has 
focussed on shareholder distributions, our earnings performance has always been the most important ratio for us. 
NAV growth should follow with a sustained history of high yield returns.
So what about the next five years? The existing portfolio still has to show the results of a full year at current occupancy. 
We have prime development land in Moscow and we intend to build that out over the next four years with a mixture of pre 
let and speculative space, if demand remains at current levels. Acquisition opportunities are increasing in our market and 
we will take those opportunities if they meet our quality criteria and are earnings accretive for ordinary shareholders. Our 
balance sheet is strong, we have cash to deploy, we continue to raise external debt when required and we have a good 
balance of capital instruments with our preference and ordinary shares. We have a proven and committed management 
team to execute our plans, to manage our estate, and to optimise the balance sheet.
We are well placed to continue growing.
Our final distribution of 3 pence per share takes our total for the year to 5 pence, a 33% increase on 2012. Again we 
intend to distribute by way of a tender offer of 1 in 28 ordinary shares at 85 pence.
We must hope that events in the Ukraine settle peaceably in the coming months and we recognise the effect that this will 
have on the capital markets whilst the issues remain unresolved. For us, it is ‘business as usual’ in Russia, with leases 
and banking arrangements continuing to be signed and rents paid. 
As always, I would like to thank our shareholders, employees, advisers and all of our other stakeholders for their support 
during another busy year.
Richard Jewson 
Chairman 
9 March 2014 Istra
Moscow
Description  
Grade A warehouse complex
Key Tenants  
•	Bacardi
•	DSV Solutions
•	Seacontinental 
GLA    
205,300 sqm 
Location 
The logistics park is directly adjacent to the Nova Riga 
highway, approximately 50 km from Moscow city centre, 
41 km from the MKAD and 8 km from the Betonka 
A107 motorway.
 
