 At the start of 2009 our main objective was to make the
business financially stable and we achieved this through the
preference share issue and the acquisition of Raven Mount plc.
Operationally, we focussed on completing the initial
development phase of the portfolio and making progress with
lettings. Both of these were achieved. At the same time we
have fully integrated our business under an internally managed
structure.
We have made good progress in improving the terms of our
bank debt and have improved our breakeven level by clearing
expensive debt through refinancing and in the case of AKM,
using the asset as consideration for debt. This is more fully
explained in the Financial Review. We also continue to generate
cash from the sale of Raven Mount assets to apply in our core
business.
The Group’s losses for the year reflect the significant valuation
downgrade reported in the first half of the year and the fact
that we started 2009 with empty space and buildings under
construction. In the second half of the year we made an
operating profit of $40 million, including revaluations, and start
2010 in good shape.
Letting space is the key. The improving occupier market can be
seen in our increasing annualised run rate of NOI and
increasing PLAs and LOIs. At 31 December 2009, NOI was
running at $70.6 million and additional PLAs and LOIs totalled
$10.5 million. At today’s date the $70.6 million has increased to
$73.4 million and additional PLAs and LOIs have increased to
$11.4 million. In addition, today, we have a further 74,000 sqm
under active negotiation which could add $7.4 million to LOIs.
We don’t want to be guilty of counting chickens and historically
many negotiations fail to result in a LOI. However, it is an
encouraging sign. 
At current rent levels, our portfolio should produce annualised
NOI of $123 million when fully let. If average rents return to
$125 per sqm, that figure could increase to $133 million per
annum if we successfully let our vacant space at that level.
What does this all mean? It’s difficult to tell from IFRS accounts
which seem designed to make things look complicated.
Fortunately our business is simple.
In a normal year (if we ever have one) and in cash terms, our
net overheads for the administration of the property portfolio
run at $20 million. This includes about $4 million of cost which
supports our offshore structure and stock exchange listing.
Annual interest costs are $28 million and preference dividends
are $25 million (at today’s exchange rate). This means we need
$73 million of annual NOI for cash breakeven at the income
statement level. The only cash flow item to remember which
cannot be seen on the income statement is $19 million of bank
loan repayments. So $92 million of NOI covers everything on a
cash basis. We are working flat out to get there. After that we
can start increasing dividends.
7
Chief Executive’s Report
Noginsk Currently there are a number of acquisitions we are considering
and if the market continues to improve then we will consider
selective development on our existing land plots.
The year end property valuation results in a diluted NAV per
share of 97 cents (60p), this equates to an ERV yield of 14.3%
and an average capital value of $820 per sqm on the
warehouse portfolio.
Seeing this really hurts. The value barely represents
replacement cost, the yield seems completely out of line with
other CEE countries and although we would buy property on
these terms no-one can find any vendors willing to sell at this
value. It’s an anomaly.
At some point yields should revert to levels similar to Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary and then we will see a great NAV
uplift. In the meantime we will concentrate on letting, cashflow
and dividends.
There is still no new development activity in our sector and with
improving tenant demand, at some point soon vacant space
will run out and rents will rise again. As I said earlier, if we could
achieve $125 per sqm on our unlet space, our portfolio NOI
would be $133 million and that will allow for attractive dividend
growth. If yields start heading back towards 9-10% we are off
to the races.
At some point the markets will wake up to the fact that Russia
is stable and growing, with inflation falling and high cash
reserves. Whilst we are waiting for the markets to realise this,
we will continue to build our unique business in a thoughtful
and careful way.
Glyn Hirsch
14 March 2010
8
Chief Executive’s Report – continued
