 24
RAVEN RUSSIA LIMITED 2014 ANNUAL REPORT
We will manage our relatively simple business effectively and 
will keep our distribution policy under constant review. This is 
disappointing given our progress and we look forward to the  
eventual recovery when we will benefit from the high quality 
portfolio we have created.
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REPORT
In many ways 2014 has been a good year.
The portfolio of 1.5million square metres (“sqm”) is 94% let, securely 
financed and we have significant free cash at holding company level. 
Our operating performance has been excellent although our balance 
sheet has suffered from the effects of the weak Rouble at the year end.
Our underlying earnings have risen to $67million, up 11% from 
$60million in 2013.
We have $247million of free cash at today’s date, a level we believe is 
prudent in these uncertain times.
Inevitably, property valuations and the US Dollar value of our Rouble 
denominated assets have suffered in this difficult environment and 
year end adjusted fully diluted Net Asset Value (“NAV”) per share 
was 106cents (2013: 126cents). With no investment transactions and 
continuing uncertainty it is hard to predict where valuations might go 
next and we remain cautious.
All of our progress in 2014 is overshadowed by the very difficult 
economic and geopolitical issues Russia is facing and how they will 
impact on our future prospects.
Whilst the vast majority of our leases are contracted in US Dollars, our 
tenants will typically have Rouble revenues. Some of our tenants are 
suffering and we will work with those who really need help and who 
recognise it is a reciprocal arrangement. Rouble rents are not out of 
the question provided this can be justified by other contractual terms, 
including lease term, indexation and covenant.
Our long term strategy is unchanged and we still believe that our 
high quality portfolio in a structurally undersupplied market can 
generate attractive returns. The problem is that the long term now 
looks further away and so our key objective is to make sure we are 
ready when it eventually arrives.
As you would expect, we have put any immediate acquisition plans 
on hold. We will not be starting any further speculative property 
development and our focus is on conserving our cash and managing 
our existing portfolio efficiently and effectively. 
With a final tender offer distribution of 3.5p the distribution for the 
year is 6p, a 20% increase over 2013. To save cash we will not be 
offering an option to oversubscribe for more than each shareholder’s 
pro rata entitlement.
Given future uncertainty it seems unlikely that the rising distribution 
trend we had developed will continue until we can see how all of the 
current uncertainties unfold. Whilst we want to make distributions to 
shareholders when we can we have to maintain a reserve of cash to 
deal with the uncertainties we will face. 
