 STRATEGIC REPORT  2013 ANNUAL REPORT | RAVEN RUSSIA
8 | 9
Chief Executive’s Report
2013 has been an important year. Raven Russia has finally become the specialist investment company that was always 
planned. Slightly delayed by the financial crisis, but better late than never.
We own a portfolio of top quality logistic warehouses, mainly in Moscow, which are fully let to strong tenants with average 
unexpired lease terms of 4.6 years and currently producing annualised NOI of $192 million. In addition we have sufficient 
permitted land to support our organic growth plans for a number of years.
In terms of financial performance, these are the highlights:
 •
Full year distribution up 33% from 3.75p to 5p;
 •
NOI up 37% from $135.6 million to $186.4 million;
 •
Underlying profit before tax is up 103% from $34.5 million to $70.0 million;
 •
Basic underlying earnings per share are up 106% from 5.3 cents to 10.9 cents; and
 •
Adjusted Diluted Net Asset value per share up a cent to 126 cents.
 •
Bank debt at the year end of $815 million, the majority of which is secured on individual assets, has an average 
interest rate of 7.2% and an average weighted term to maturity of 4.7 years.
We also have $229 million of free cash at today’s date.
For 2013 we intend to make a final distribution of 3 pence for each ordinary share making it 5 pence for the year. This 
continues our progressive distribution policy that has seen us return $347 million to ordinary and preference shareholders 
since flotation.
There is no benefit to shareholders of self congratulation (no matter how tempting) the real question is: what comes next?
We still believe that our sector of the market is structurally under supplied and that even modest economic growth in 
Russia will result in a significant excess of demand over supply. Competition remains fragmented and none of the major 
global players has entered the market. Russia continues to present many barriers to entry.
We have a stable position in terms of lease contracts and banking in the medium term, however we will be focussing on 
improving all of these arrangements through active management of tenants and lenders.
Raven Russia has always been about yield. In today’s market stabilised assets produce a dollar yield of 11% and 
developments show around 14%. These stable cashflows provide the platform for attractive and growing distributions to 
shareholders.
We remain committed to distributing to ordinary shareholders by way of tender offer buy-backs. This is tax efficient and 
gives shareholders the option of receiving cash or increasing their percentage holding. In the long term the continual 
shrinking of the share base could have a powerful effect on value.
Our overhead base is stable so all increases in income will flow to the bottom line and enable us to increase distributions. 
Indexation will help but we can add 50,000sqm to 100,000sqm per year by building on existing land. Assuming rents of 
$130 per sqm, each 10,000sqm adds $1.3 million to NOI when let.
We are still pursuing acquisitions of completed assets and Moscow land. 
The global economic and political environment remains difficult. Relatively speaking Russia is in a strong position but 
currency volatility makes financial planning difficult and we know that globalisation means banking contagion. For this 
reason we feel justified in keeping a relatively high balance of free cash.
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2014 Noginsk
Moscow
Description  
Grade A warehouse complex with 26ha of land suitable 
for expansion
Key Tenants  
•	X5 Retail Group
•	UPM
•	ID Logistics
•	Sportmaster
•	Dixi pre-lease in Phase III
GLA    
160,600 sqm completed
Location 
The Noginsk Logistics Park is located in the Noginsk district of 
the Moscow region approximately 55km from the city centre, 
44km from the MKAD and 3km outside the Betonka A107 
motorway. Access to the site is from the Volga highway, which 
links Moscow to Nizhniy Novgorod. A rail spur serves the site.
