 The Board of Raven Russia Limited (“Raven Russia”)
announces the Group’s results for the year ended
31 December 2009.
Construction of the initial phase of development has been
completed and our emphasis is now on letting, where solid
progress is being made, with lettings of 189,000 square
metres (“sqm”) of space during the year. 
At the year end our annualised net operating income (“NOI”)
stood at $70.6 million (up 36% from $52 million at
31 December 2008) increasing to $84.8 million, including
pre-let agreements (“PLAs”) and letters of intent (“LOIs”), at
the current date. Since last Autumn, the letting market has
continued to improve and in addition to the above, we are in
active negotiations on 74,000 sqm of space. 
Our balance sheet is strong with gearing of 39.6% as
calculated in note 34(c) to the financial statements and a cash
position today of $141 million. 
Following the year end property valuation, fully diluted NAV per
share was 60p, compared to 63p at the half year and 89p at
31 December 2008, using the year end exchange rate. This
increases to 64p at today’s exchange rate. I concur with our
Chief Executive and fellow board members that the current
valuation of our property portfolio seems anomalous and
unnecessarily conservative given that it barely represents
replacement cost and circa 300+bps higher than yields on
similar buildings in comparable CEE countries such as Poland,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary; and circa 600bps above
equivalent buildings in the UK; despite the fact that we believe
the relevant economies of all those countries are no where
near as strong as Russia’s.
The internalisation of the Property Advisor has continued to
prove successful. In addition to significant improvements in
business and operating efficiency, cost savings have been
greater than we originally anticipated.
The acquisition of Raven Mount last year has also continued to
prove successful with assets being realised above acquisition
value.
We have continued with our plans to move to the Official List
but have been informed by The London Stock Exchange that
this cannot proceed whilst our issued warrants represent more
than 20% of our issued ordinary share capital. We are working
with our advisors to try to resolve this.
Due to the continuing improvement in net operating income
and our strong cash position we intend to declare a final
dividend of 0.5p, bringing the total dividend for 2009 to 1p
(2008: 3p). We would hope to progress this pay out in line with
an improving net operating income.
We now have a successful, simple business which is the
dominant player in its niche market, and our primary objective
Chairman’s Statement
5
Pulkovo is to continue letting our vacant space. The market in which we
are operating is showing good signs of improvement and we
remain well placed to provide solid returns to shareholders
whilst retaining a strong, liquid balance sheet.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders,
employees and advisors for their support during the year.
Richard Jewson 
14 March 2010
Chairman’s Statement – continued
6
Krekshino
 
