 Letting space has remained our key focus and the progress
of the first half has been maintained. We let 220,000 sqm
of space to third parties during the year on top of the
189,124 sqm let in 2009. (That’s 4,400,000 square feet in
24 months for our British audience).
At 31 December 2010, annualised NOI was running at
$83.8million and additional PLAs and LOIs totalled $4.2 million.
At today’s date the $83.8 million has increased to $85.7 million
and additional PLAs and LOIs have increased to $10.9 million.
On top of this we have a further 157,000 sqm under active
negotiation which could add $17.5 million to LOIs. 
So if all of this converts we could reach the big figure of
$114 million of annualised NOI. This would leave us 93%
let and heading towards $121 million of annualised NOI. 
The high level of space under negotiation gives some indication
of how strong the occupier market is today. Although this
category has the possibility to disappoint, with some good luck
we are well on the way to making significant inroads into our
vacant space.
The market is continuing to improve generally and particularly
in Moscow, Jones Lang LaSalle (“JLL”) now reports that there
is a 3.9% vacancy in Grade A Moscow warehouses. There is
virtually no new development and vacant space is leasing fast.
Rents have started to rise. 
Quite why a portfolio of finished buildings that can produce
income of over $120 million is valued at only $943 million is
hard to fathom. There have been few investment transactions
to demonstrate yield compression for valuation purposes.
Despite our best efforts and cash we have found it difficult
to find anything to buy.
However, we did announce on 28 February, the conditional
acquisition of the Southgate warehouse project, near
Domodedova airport, South of Moscow. The project comprises
a completed warehouse of 76,550 sqm, mainly let to John
Deere and 88 hectares of permitted land, allowing the potential
development of a further 440,000 sqm of warehouse space.
Existing minority shareholders have 30 business days from
date of announcement to match our offer. So we will wait to
see if we get it. 
As our portfolio matures and we can demonstrate the high
quality of our rental income, I do believe that our valuations will
continue to improve. High quality, growing income from world
class assets is becoming increasingly hard to find, we are
certainly in the right place, with healthy tenant demand and
a dynamic and growing macro-economic environment.
The simple income statement I ran through last year has now
changed a bit, but is not fundamentally different. As a result
of new financings, annual interest cost now runs at $34 million
(but we have more cash) and at today’s exchange rate, our
preference share coupon runs at $27 million. We have broken
down our overheads to show the split between running the
portfolio and our central overheads ($13 million and $6 million
per annum respectively). The central overheads which support
our listing requirements also support our Guernsey and Cyprus
Chief Executive’s Report
6
Shushary   
7
Chief Executive’s Report – continued
offices which more than pay for themselves in the associated
reduced tax burden, both now and in the future.
Roslogistics and Raven Mount each have an overhead base of
$3 million but the former should now generate sufficient profits
to support its rental obligations of $10 million and we expect
Raven Mount to at least break even in the income statement
as we liquidate its stock.
In terms of growth we are working hard on new leasing and
managing existing tenants’ leases to benefit from increasing
rental levels. 
We have started building 55,000 sqm at Klimovsk. As all
infrastructure is in place we estimate a further investment of
$34 million to complete. If we achieve rents of $120 per sqm
then this will give an excellent return. 
All the components are falling into place for us to commence
further new development. With a focus on Moscow, this will
happen this year. Klimovsk is underway and if we complete
Southgate we will start there too. We also have some other
good potential land acquisitions. This will also answer the
“what are you doing with all that cash?” question, as well
as improving overall returns by putting this cash to work.
In summary, we have a strong balance sheet with plenty of
cash ($132 million at today’s date) for earnings enhancing
acquisitions or profitable development. We will soon have a
clearly visible and growing dividend and there is still lots of
potential for NAV growth from revaluations.
The oil price is well over $100 a barrel and the Russian
consumer is spending money. Russia will host the winter
Olympics in 2014 in Sochi, a new Russian Grand Prix is
planned and the World Cup arrives in 2018, and the
government has committed to major infrastructure upgrades
to facilitate events like this. At the macro level, all of these facts
are beneficial to the country we operate in. At the property level
there is virtually no new supply becoming available in Moscow
and the vacancy rate is falling in all of our other markets.
Demand is strong and rents should grow during the course
of the year.
Our main objective remains to lease the remaining space on
the best terms possible to the strongest tenants and to take
advantage of market opportunities, either by building new
space or acquisition. 
The achievements of 2010 have been overshadowed by the
death of our colleague and friend Oleg Tomin in the bombing
of Domodedovo, Moscow airport on 24th January 2011.
This tragedy puts a new perspective on our efforts and has
saddened us all greatly.
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
13 March 2011
