 24
RAVEN RUSSIA LIMITED 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
We remain ready to commence development, pursue acquisitions 
and do further buy-backs of our own shares at these low levels as 
soon as we feel that market conditions will support a return to an 
expansionist strategy. Any reduction in sanctions or strengthening  
of the oil price will benefit us.
Operationally we are doing all we can and I thank our shareholders  
for their continued support. 
Glyn Hirsch
Chief Executive Officer
13 March 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S  
REPORT
The challenging macro-economic conditions, particularly the oil 
price, have continued to impact negatively on our business. The weak 
Rouble has maintained downward pressure on rents and this has had 
a consequent downward effect on valuations. Particularly frustrating 
is that when we founded the business at the beginning of 2005, 
the Brent Crude price was $45 per barrel and the Rouble:US Dollar 
exchange rate was below 30. Today we have Brent at $40 per barrel 
and the Rouble at 70 to the US Dollar.
These events have contributed to an extremely difficult operating 
environment throughout the year and we have focussed on 
maintaining income at whatever level, and in whatever currency,  
the market allows us, whilst protecting our cash balances.
The Company’s monumental efforts have meant we still have 
an occupancy level of 82% and our year end cash balance was 
$202 million. 
Whether the trend towards Rouble contracts is temporary or 
permanent only time will tell. The attraction to tenants today is 
obvious but whether they will feel the same in the future if the 
Rouble strengthens, or further inflation develops, remains to be 
seen. Virtually all Rouble leases increase annually with Russian CPI, 
which was 12.9% in 2015.
We will remain flexible and alert to market changes and 
opportunities.
At the year end, 10% of our portfolio space was contracted with 
Rouble denominated leases. This increasing level of Rouble income 
means that we have significant upside potential if the Rouble 
weakness against the Dollar reverses, and particularly so if it returns  
to its ten year trend of around 35 to the US Dollar.
Our general strategy is to batten down the hatches, preserve cash  
and make sure we are able to participate in the upside when  
things improve.
That said, underlying profits allow us to continue with a limited 
distribution policy and we intend to match our interim with a final 
tender offer buy-back at the equivalent of 1p. As was the case with 
last year’s final distribution, we will not be offering the option to 
oversubscribe for more than each shareholder’s pro rata entitlement.
