 red24 is a crisis management assistance group that provides a range of security and 
business support services. Our business continues to enjoy four distinct streams of 
revenue: travel assistance, including accident and healthcare, special risks, consulting 
and product safety. We have developed an excellent reputation for assisting clients in 
minimising risks to their personnel, operations and profitability and this reputation 
is key to our ability to grow the business into related areas and to expanding our 
geographic coverage. 
Business model
The heart of our business operation is our 24/7 Crisis Response Management Centre 
(CRM) in Cape Town. This state of the art response centre is staffed 24 hours a day,  
365 days a year by a dedicated team of multi-lingual customer service representatives, 
regional analysts and experienced security professionals. The centre enables our experts to 
give accurate impartial, up to the minute information and advice to our clients. Across the 
group clients are offered escalating levels of assistance that are appropriate to the threat.
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Travel assistance
Our travel assistance service has 
been significantly enhanced by the 
investment in our travel tracker product 
which has placed it onto a new technical 
platform that will make it both easier 
to interface with new clients and with 
new travel data bases. The product was 
launched at the business travel show 
in London in February 2015 and met 
with a most encouraging response 
from FTSE350 companies and higher 
education establishments and we think 
this will help materially in ensuring that 
this revenue stream is maintained in 
2016, notwithstanding the loss of the 
major book of business from HSBC. 
The loss of the HSBC Premier and 
Advance books in the UK was 
announced last August but has only 
impacted the revenue numbers in the 
current calendar year. We have been 
working hard to diversify our revenue 
base in recent years and the numbers 
show that significant progress has been 
made. Regulatory changes in the UK 
make it unlikely that the revenues lost 
will be replaced by like for like income 
and given the relatively high fixed cost 
base that the CRM represents we 
responded quickly to the bad news to 
reduce the cost base. Unfortunately  
this could not be done without 
implementing some staff reductions, 
the cost of which was taken in the first 
half year. I am pleased to say that the 
improved level of new business means 
we are once again recruiting.
We were pleased to be awarded the title 
of Risk Management Firm of the Year, 
2015, by Finance Monthly and believe 
the year under review has seen our 
reputation continue to grow.
red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015
eight
2015 2014
Turnover:
Segments Key: Product Safety Travel Assistance
Special Risks 
Consulting
£1,016k
£2,193k
£1,595k
£1,143k
£5,947k
£1,054k
£2,460k
£1,349k
£1,024k
£5,887k red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015
Special risks
Our special risks business had a busy 
year and dealt with a record number 
of kidnappings and other attempts at 
extortion – Mexico and Indonesia were 
particular trouble spots. None of these 
incidents resulted in the prolonged 
incident in the Middle East that so 
affected the 2014 numbers. We continue 
to publish our respected “Threat forecast” 
and have added new books of business 
over the year. The office we set up in 
Munich, primarily to service this unit, is 
meeting expectations and has created a 
number of promising opportunities.
Consulting and response
Throughout the year this unit has been 
busy with requests for close protection 
work and for evacuation planning 
services. In August a new Far Eastern 
client requested a large evacuation from 
Libya involving several hundred of their 
staff. This was successfully completed and 
represents our largest operation to date.
Product safety
Red24 Assist our product safety brand, 
showed an increase in revenue in the 
second half year following the launch of 
a new analytical tool and new training 
modules. This has kept our offering ahead 
of the competition and is helping to 
ensure that contracts are renewed and 
that new business is won.  
Principal risks and uncertainties
There are a number of principal risks and 
uncertainties which could have a material 
effect on the group. Some of these risks 
and uncertainties are external to the 
group and largely outside the group’s 
control. Foremost amongst these is the 
economic environment, which remains a 
challenging one as many governments 
struggle with debt constraints. This has 
implications for the relative value of 
currencies, not least sterling, which is 
our functional and reporting currency. 
The past two years have seen significant 
growth in our dollar revenues and costs, 
and we also have a significant rand 
cost base in South Africa. The impact of 
currency movements on our earnings 
cannot be reliably forecast and remains 
an area of uncertainty, though the Board 
do seek to reduce uncertainty by using 
forward exchange contracts to purchase 
rand for the forthcoming twelve months. 
Risks and uncertainties that are largely 
within the control of the group include 
the maintenance of the group’s 
competitive position to ensure the 
achievement and collection of sufficient 
revenue to meet the group’s objectives. 
The group maintains significant cash 
reserves both to mitigate against the 
possibility of periods of reduced working 
capital and to ensure adequate working 
capital is available to meet any sudden 
increase in the level of response work 
clients may require. Internally we have 
worked hard, and with some success, 
to broaden the customer base and 
reduce dependence on key accounts. 
Other normal business risks include 
dependence on the continued availability 
of key personnel to ensure that our 
clients receive the level of service they 
are entitled to expect, and the ability of 
the group to continue to provide that 
level of service. The reputation of the 
group is critical to its continued success 
and it works hard to develop and protect 
that reputation by ensuring that it only 
associates itself with activities that are 
appropriate for a business in its sector.
Looking forward
To date the group has been able to 
expand organically by recruiting 
appropriate specialists in the desired 
fields without the need for acquisitions. 
However the Board is mindful that 
acquisition remains an additional avenue 
to growth and, particularly in overseas 
markets, may be a more effective means 
of achieving growth. To this end, in June 
2015, we announced the acquisition 
of Risq Worldwide, a Singapore based 
company specialising in corporate 
investigations, business intelligence  
and employment background screening. 
This will significantly enhance our 
business in Asia, adds a number of  
blue-chip clients and broadens our 
product offering in London. 
We have a good pipeline of new 
business, and see significant 
opportunities in Europe and in Asia. 
Whether the revenue lost can be fully 
recovered by organic growth in a single 
year remains to be seen, but we are 
pleased with the level of new business 
achieved thus far.
 
Expansion in areas outside our reporting 
currency is affected by exchange rate 
movements. Almost half our revenue is 
now denominated in US dollars, even 
where our clients are the UK arm of US 
insurers, whereas almost 50% of our 
costs are incurred in Rand. Exchange 
rate movements are influenced by many 
complex factors and whilst the Board 
continues to believe that it is neither 
practical nor desirable to hedge these 
risks fully, we have taken steps to secure 
what we believe to be a favourable 
opportunity to purchase forward 80% of 
our forecast Rand requirements for the 
coming year. 
nine Key performance indicators
The key performance indicators (“KPIs”) for the group are those that communicate the financial performance and strength of 
the group, as a whole, to shareholders. A summary of the KPI’s is as follows (derived from continuing operations only):
Maldwyn Worsley-Tonks
Chief Executive
5 June 2015
2015
£’000
2014
£’000
Financial
Revenue 5,947 5,887
Gross profit 4,418 4,533
Profit before tax 1,066 855
Earnings per share 1.83p 1.33p
Available cash 3,418 2,303
ten
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015
