 red24
Annual report & accounts for the year ended 31 March 2015
Introduction
I am pleased to present our report for the 
year ended 31 March 2015.  
Financial Overview
The business continues to develop 
successfully and for many of our KPIs in a 
way that has exceeded our expectations. 
Revenue has increased by 1% to 
£5,947,246 from £5,886,707 achieved 
last year, despite the loss of our largest 
single contract. We responded swiftly to 
the news of this loss both to reduce our 
fixed cost base and to win new contracts. 
As a result we have achieved a record profit 
before tax of £1,066,398 as against the 
previous year’s £854,905. The research 
and development investment in our travel 
tracker product attracts a tax credit in the 
UK and this has reduced the tax charge, so 
basic earnings per share show a substantial 
increase to 1.83p per share from 1.33p, 
this improvement was also assisted by the 
purchase in the year of 1,050,000 shares 
by the Employee Benefit Trust, which 
serves to reduce the number of shares in 
issue for earnings per share calculation 
purposes. 
The net assets per share continue to 
increase and are now 8.7p per share up 
from 7.6p last year. In January 2013 we 
completed the purchase of the building 
housing our Crisis Response Management 
Centre in Cape Town. The local bank loan 
to fund part of the purchase remains our 
only debt.
 
The Board are recommending a final 
dividend of 0.27p be paid in September, 
which is an increase of 17% on the 0.23p 
final dividend paid last year, and brings the 
dividend return for the year as a whole to 
0.50p as compared to 0.45p last year.
 
The share price has had a volatile year 
and was understandably depressed by 
the August news of the loss of a major 
contract. Since then we have worked 
hard to ensure that the fundamentals of 
the business remain very sound and to 
communicate the fact that the business 
still has considerable potential to develop. 
This work is beginning to be reflected in 
an improved share price, so enhancing 
shareholders overall return.
Outlook
We have worked hard to build up a 
reputation with well established clients for 
high quality work and we see future growth 
both from our existing services and also 
from the addition of other services that are 
likely to be of assistance to those clients. 
Although there are risks to any business, 
the Board feel encouraged by the way we 
have continued to progress over the last 
year, despite the loss of one of our key 
contracts which represented the realisation 
of one of the biggest risk factors that the 
business faced, and are confident of further 
progress to come. 
Staff
Our staff are absolutely crucial to the 
quality of service provided and to creating 
an environment where we can attract good 
quality people who want to come to work 
for us. The Board are most grateful to all the 
staff for their hard work and are gratified 
that so many of them are choosing to build 
their careers with the group. 
Simon Richards
Chairman
5 June 2015 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
seven
