 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 4
Chairman’s
Statement
“Our purpose-driven 
strategy is delivering  
for all stakeholders.”
A year of delivery
2015 was another successful year for RB, as we continued to benefit 
from the strategy we outlined in 2012. Total Net Revenue was flat due 
to the negative impact of foreign exchange, but increased by 6% on 
a like-for-like basis. Reported Operating Profit was up 4% in actual 
currency and 7% in constant currency terms. Adjusted Operating 
Profit rose 9% in actual currency and 12% in constant currency, 
resulting in a 210bps increase in our Adjusted Operating Margin. 
Reported Diluted Earnings Per Share were 240.9p, up 6% while 
Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share were 12% higher at 258.6p.
Our strong operational performance and continued excellent cash 
conversion enabled us to return a record amount to Shareholders 
in 2015. We maintained the level of dividend this year, despite the 
loss in earnings from the Indivior demerger in December 2014. 
The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 88.7p per share, 
up 12%, giving a total dividend for the year of 139p. Subject to 
Shareholder approval, the final dividend will be paid on 26 May 
2016 to Shareholders on the register on 15 April 2016.
We also increased our share repurchase programme to £0.8 billion 
for the year (up from £0.3 billion) while maintaining our net 
debt position at around £1.6 billion. The Directors believe this 
policy of balanced returns leaves your Balance Sheet in a healthy 
position, while giving us the financial strength to invest in 
strategic, value-accretive acquisitions, in line with our strategy.
It is pleasing that RB’s share price performance continues to reflect 
our successful delivery. During the year, RB’s share price rose by 
20.6% to 6281p, well ahead of the 4.9% change in the FTSE 100.
A successful strategy
RB’s strategy concentrates our resources on the attractive Health and
Hygiene categories and looks to deliver well-balanced growth across
developed and developing markets. The Board remains highly focused 
on the success of this strategy. Each year, we spend considerable 
time with the Executive Committee, reviewing RB’s competitive 
environment and our plans for driving the business forward. We also 
carefully monitor the Company’s progress against its plans. Through 
this work, we remain convinced that our strategy is the right one and 
that it continues to position RB to outperform for the long term. 
Sustainability is a fundamental part of this strategy, as we 
recognise that we have a wider responsibility that goes beyond 
our commitment to deliver financial returns for Shareholders. 
We made further strong progress with our sustainability agenda 
this year, using our health and hygiene capabilities to make a 
real difference to people’s lives, while ensuring we operate safely 
and with the lowest possible impact on the environment.
At the start of 2015, we announced Project Supercharge, which
is already making a significant difference to our organisation and its 
performance. At its heart, it is about simplifying our business, so we 
can get our innovations to market more quickly and effectively. At the
same time, the substantial cost savings from the programme frees up 
cash for investment elsewhere, further improving our prospects for 
growth. More information about Project Supercharge and its benefits 
can be found on page 17.
Returns to Shareholders
£20.8bn
Of additional value delivered to our  
Shareholders in the last three years
Net Revenue from more 
sustainable products
£558m
6% of Net Revenue
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 5
Governance 
in action
Board members’  
trip to India
In September 2015, the Board held a highly 
successful visit to India, which is a key 
growth market for RB and we believe will 
soon rank in the top three countries for 
revenues. Board members met government 
ministers, including Minister of Power, 
Piyush Goyal and Finance Minister, Arun 
Jaitley, e-commerce entrepreneurs including 
Snap Deal CEO Kunal Bahl, and Kailash 
Satyarthi, who won the 2014 Nobel 
Peace Prize for his work to protect the 
rights of children and young people.
The visit enhanced Board members’ 
knowledge of the Indian business 
environment, including the pivotal role  
that e-commerce will play in future growth. 
At the same time, it emphasised the 
importance of RB’s purpose as a company, 
which goes beyond our financial success. 
The Board learned about the progress 
we have made in supporting the Indian 
Government’s campaign for a cleaner 
India – known as Swachh Bharat – in 
which we are helping to improve hand 
hygiene and sanitation, which in turn helps 
people in India to live healthier lives. RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 6
Governance
We believe that good governance is vital for business success. It
provides the framework within which RB can implement its strategy
and create further value for our Shareholders. Our annual evaluation of 
the effectiveness of the Board and its committees again showed that 
governance within RB is strong and effective. The evaluation identified 
areas for further improvement, which we are implementing. More 
detail about the evaluation and its findings are on page 57.
The Board also benefitted from the contributions and broad range of 
skills of our three new Non-Executive Directors, Mary Harris, Pam Kirby 
and Chris Sinclair, who joined the Board in February 2015 and who 
have brought fresh perspectives to add to the deep experience of our 
long-standing Directors. 
More information about RB’s approach to corporate governance and 
the Board’s activities during the year can be found in my statement on 
pages 52 and 53 and in the full Corporate Governance Report on pages 
54 to 58.
A culture of outperformance
As this Annual Report makes clear, RB’s culture is critical to its success. 
Our culture makes RB a dynamic and exciting business, which rewards 
outperformance and is constantly looking to do better for our 
customers, consumers and Shareholders.
Appreciation
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Rakesh Kapoor and his 
team for their substantial achievements this year and for positioning  
the business to succeed for years to come. We have an exceptional 
depth of talent on our Executive Committee and in our broader senior 
management team, which gives us the leadership we require to 
continue to outperform. I would also like to thank everyone in RB 
around the world for their outstanding commitment and performance 
in the last 12 months. 
My thanks also go to my colleagues on the Board for their guidance.
During the year we were very sorry to receive the resignation of our 
long time Deputy Chairman, Peter Harf, due to his ever increasing 
workload at JAB. Peter led the public offering of Benckiser and  
was subsequently very instrumental in bringing together Reckitt  
and Colman and Benckiser to form RB as we are today. This wise 
combination of two great companies has proven enormously  
beneficial to the shareholders of both corporations. Over the years 
Peter has been an outstanding director offering his great experience 
and wisdom during our Board deliberations. He contributed 
meaningfully to the growth of Shareholder wealth in RB. On behalf  
of all stakeholders I thank Peter for his immense contribution and  
wish him well in the future.
At the AGM to be held on 5 May 2016 (AGM), Jaspal Bindra, Sue Shim 
and Doug Tough will not be offering themselves for re-election and will 
retire from the Board from the conclusion of the meeting. I would very 
much like to thank each of them for their contributions and wish them 
well for the future pursuits they will be undertaking.
Thank you also to our Shareholders for your continued support.
AGM resolutions
The AGM is on 5 May 2016 and the resolutions that Shareholders will 
vote on are fully explained in the Notice of Meeting.
Conclusion
The Board remains confident that the building blocks are in place for 
RB’s ongoing success. The combination of our strategy, culture and 
people gives us a platform for continued growth and outperformance, 
which will benefit all our stakeholders.
Adrian Bellamy / Chairman
22 March 2016
Chairman’s
Statement continued
