 RB / Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 8
Chief Executive’s
Review
“The combination of the 
right portfolio strategy 
and the right culture is 
delivering outstanding 
returns to Shareholders.”
“Our people have the 
hunger you usually only 
find in companies that 
are just starting out.”
RB has a long track record of outperformance. While it is tempting to 
focus on the ‘hardware’ of our financial performance, to discover what 
truly makes RB special you need to understand the ‘software’ beyond 
it – our culture and values, and our talented people who embody both.
RB’s culture is very different from others in our industry. Our people 
have the hunger you usually only find in companies that are just 
starting out. We have a compelling desire to challenge ourselves 
and each other, so we outperform and make RB the best company 
we can be. Our culture is reflected in our values – Achievement, 
Ownership, Entrepreneurship and Partnership. They determine 
how we make decisions and how our leadership provides a role 
model for the behaviours we want. Our values are interlinked, 
and they combine to make RB a business where we act fast, take 
responsibility and aim for and reward exceptional achievement.
I also believe that successful companies must have a clear purpose, 
which explains who they are and what they stand for. RB stands  
for healthier lives and happier homes. This purpose inspires us and 
helps us to prioritise. For example, we know which innovations 
to pursue and which capabilities we need, because we can easily 
see whether or not they will help us achieve our purpose. Our 
purpose therefore directly informs our business strategy.
Results
2015 was an excellent year for RB, as we continued to benefit 
from our focus on consumer health and hygiene. These categories 
are faster growing, higher margin and less competitive. Our 
approach of identifying unmet needs means we can drive 
category growth, rather than fighting for market share.
We delivered strong like-for-like growth and exceptional Operating 
Margin expansion. The starting point for our virtuous earnings 
model is Gross Margin, which we increased by 140bps, as we 
drove a superior sales mix and ongoing optimisation of our cost 
base. Higher gross margins give us the capacity to invest heavily 
behind our brands, which in turn drives our top line. Brand Equity 
Investment (BEI) rose by £48 million (constant) equivalent to 12.7% 
(-20bps) of Net Revenue, which understates the true increase given 
our reinvestment of efficiencies. Our operating margins are already 
best in class but we increased them by a further 210bps, to 26.8%.
Supercharging our organisation
In our markets, speed matters. However, as organisations 
grow they inevitably become more complex, which makes 
them rigid and slower to respond. We must constantly battle 
against this, so our culture and business can thrive.
We announced Project Supercharge at the start of 2015. It is our 
programme to ensure we have a simpler, more agile organisation, 
which focuses our efforts on our consumers and our retail 
customers. Supercharge is already delivering real benefits. For 
example, we have reduced our geographical areas from three to 
two, bringing our developing markets under a single leadership 
and helping us to deliver more scalable innovation and better in-
country activation. To focus on the blockbuster innovations with 
the best returns, we have reduced the number of projects in our 
pipeline, while increasing their average value. And our Power of 
1 teams (see page 30) are helping us to roll-out new products 
more quickly, consistently and cost effectively across our areas.
Supercharge is a cultural programme but it is also delivering cost 
savings to reinvigorate our earnings model. Our people have embraced 
Supercharge to such an extent that we have accelerated these benefits 
and achieved more than we planned in 2015. We also now expect to 
achieve the upper end of our £100 million – £150 million annual savings 
target once we have fully implemented this three-year programme.
Number of “Top400” management  
working outside their home country
61%
Like-for-like Net Revenue growth
+6%
Rakesh Kapoor / Chief Executive Officer 0
225
450
675
900
1125
1350
1575
1800
Value of £100 invested at 1 January 2000
1 Jan 00
1 Jan 01
1 Jan 02
1 Jan 03
1 Jan 04
1 Jan 05
1 Jan 06
1 Jan 07
1 Jan 08
1 Jan 09
1 Jan 10
1 Jan 11
1 Jan 12
1 Jan 13
1 Jan 14
1 Jan 15
1 Jan 16
FTSE 100 RB 
£1,721
£156
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015 / RB 9
A connected company
The digital revolution is transforming the business world, so we 
continue to invest in creating a connected company. The need to  
be where our consumers are, means we are increasingly moving  
online. In some of our key markets, more than 50% of our media 
impressions are now through digital media. We are connecting our 
Powerbrands directly to consumers, for example by engaging with  
new mothers to promote Dettol, and using technology and data  
to derive better and faster insights, so we can rapidly identify and 
respond to changes in consumer demand. E-commerce is ever more 
important and more than 25% of our revenue in China now comes 
through this channel. We use China to develop new approaches  
to e-commerce, which we can then apply to the rest of the world.
Our betterbusiness strategy
Truly sustainable businesses need to be financially strong while 
improving people’s lives and acting in an environmentally 
sustainable way. Our betterbusiness strategy therefore 
encompasses how we drive financial performance – through 
our focus on our Powermarkets, Powerbrands, our organisation 
and our margins – as well as how we meet our social and 
environmental responsibilities, so we deliver sustainable value.
The most effective social programmes are those which inspire people 
because they are closely connected to the Company’s business. Our 
Save a Child Every Minute campaign with Save the Children uses 
our expertise and our people’s efforts to effect real change, with 
the goal of stopping diarrhoea being a top five killer of children. This 
year we have launched two innovative hygiene products to reduce 
the incidence of diarrhoea, with their profits being reinvested in 
the programme. We also continue to educate people and to raise 
awareness of health and hygiene. I am delighted that our efforts mean 
we have already hit our 2020 target of reaching 200 million people.
We have a well-established sustainability programme, as we aim  
to grow in an environmentally and socially responsible way. As  
a result, we work hard to make our products and our production 
more sustainable, by reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, waste 
and energy and water use, and by increasing the proportion of 
Net Revenues from more sustainable products. More details of our 
approach and performance can be found on pages 24 to 29.
Conclusion
We are making good progress with our strategy and remain on 
target to reach our 2020 goals. Despite all our achievements 
so far, we believe there is much more to go for, as we drive 
penetration of our markets and introduce innovations that 
delight consumers and create value for all our stakeholders.
In 2016 we expect that the macroenvironment will be tough but 
we remain confident that our strategic choices across Powerbrands 
and Powermarkets will enable RB to deliver another year of growth 
and margin expansion. We are targeting like-for-like Net Revenue 
growth of +4-5%. For operating margin our medium-term target is 
for moderate margin expansion. We expect this to be supplemented 
in 2016 by part of the remaining Project Supercharge efficiencies.
Rakesh Kapoor / Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2016
Case study
Connected to 
our consumers
 
Durex passionately believes in providing couples with better 
protection and better sex. We know that the best way to reach our 
core targets – young people – and talk to them about sex is through 
digital media. In 2015, Durex therefore decided to take connectivity 
to a completely new level.
In China, Durex created the first personalised condom packs, 
allowing people to go online to choose their preferred design and 
create a personal message for the person they love, with the packs 
then shipped directly to their home. 
Globally, Durex showed that the best way to turn on is to turn off 
your device. YouTube videos created for our Earth Hour campaign 
in March 2015, were viewed more than 75 million times, making 
them the most-watched branded YouTube videos  
for weeks. 
No icon is yet available to communicate safer sex on social 
platforms, so for World Aids Day 2015, Durex campaigned for a 
‘condom emoji’. The Durex video really struck a chord with young 
people, creating a digital interaction every three seconds during 
the campaign and achieving 2.9 billion impressions globally.
When it comes to better and healthier sex – in real life or  
on the net – the best way to connect is the Durex way.
SHAREHOLDER RETURNS
RB has demonstrated outstanding Shareholder return. If you 
invested £100 on 1 January 2000 that investment would have 
grown to £1,721 by the end of 2015. That same £100 invested in 
the FTSE 100 would be worth £156 over the same period of time.
