 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Renold plc is an international group delivering high precision  
engineered products and solutions to our customers worldwide.
 Chain
A global market leading supplier of chain for many 
applications. Heavy duty, high precision, indoor or outdoor, 
high or low temperature and in clean or contaminated 
environments; these are all in a day’s work. 
We have manufacturing sites across the world including the 
USA, Germany, India, China, Malaysia and Australia in addition 
to local service capabilities in a number of other markets. We 
operate at the leading edge of technology, with innovative 
products designed to meet customers’ exacting standards.
Our vast range of roller chains means that for most 
requirements there is a Renold solution. Our premier 
brand, Renold Synergy, offers unbeatable wear and fatigue 
performance, whilst our all-purpose range of standard 
chain provides affordable reliability. Continuous research, 
development, innovation and ingenuity has led to the 
production of more specialised solutions such as Hydro-
Service with its superior corrosion-resistant coating and the 
Syno range which sets a new benchmark for chains requiring 
little or no lubrication. 
Conveyor chain applications including theme park rides, 
water treatment plants, cement mills, agricultural machinery, 
mining and sugar production all rely on the high-specification 
materials and treatment processes used by Renold. Renold 
is also a market leader in lifting chain used in many of the 
forklift trucks produced worldwide.
 T orque T ransmission
A global market leading manufacturer and developer of 
coupling and gearbox solutions, from fluid couplings to 
rubber-in-compression and rubber-in-shear couplings, and 
a complete range of worm gears, helical and bevel helical 
worm drives. We also manufacture custom gear spindles 
and gear couplings for the primary metals industry and 
we are experts in providing bespoke gear solutions across 
industries worldwide such as power generation, rail and 
escalator transit systems, metals and materials handling. 
We have manufacturing sites across the world including 
the USA, the UK, South Africa and China. We work closely 
alongside our customers to design and manufacture a 
solution to specific application needs. Our design capability 
and innovation is recognised by customers around the 
world and is utilised in customising our gearboxes and 
couplings to meet our customers’ specific requirements. 
Our solutions deliver durability, reliability and long life 
for demanding industrial applications. Renold Torque 
Transmission also provides a range of freewheel clutches 
featuring both sprag and roller ramp technology. Sprag 
clutches are used in a wide range of safety-critical 
applications such as keeping riders safe on some of the 
world’s most thrilling rollercoasters.
Adjusted 
operating profit 
£14.2m
Adjusted 
operating profit 
£6.9m
External 
revenue 
 
£138.3m
External 
revenue 
 
£43.1m
Employees at  
31 March 2015 
1,747
Employees at  
31 March 2015 
463
Read more about our performance on pages 30 to 33 Read more about our performance on pages 26 to 29
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
02
Who We Are: 
Group at a Glance 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
North America
North America delivered 
1.3% growth in underlying 
revenue with both the US 
and Canada ahead of the 
prior year.
Renold Jeffrey and Renold 
Ajax have been well known 
participants in the North 
American markets for 
many years with a focus on 
engineering chain and gear 
spindles and couplings.
Europe
Europe delivered a 4.5% 
rise in underlying revenue. 
Germany, the UK and 
France all showed modest 
growth with Switzerland 
well ahead.
Renold Chain now operates 
from one major European 
manufacturing location in 
Germany. Renold Torque 
Transmission operates 
three plants in the UK 
exporting to various 
destinations worldwide.
Asia Pacific
Australasia delivered a flat 
result down 0.1%, with a 
continuing weak Australia 
market offset by South 
East Asia growth.
We operate manufacturing 
plants in Australia and 
Malaysia with additional 
sales centres in New 
Zealand and Singapore. We 
also operate a distribution 
network in Australia and 
Malaysia.
High growth economies
Our Indian business  
delivered growth in 
underlying revenue of 
10.3%, while China grew 
8.9% in underlying revenue.
Our Chinese chain plant 
primarily serves sister 
companies and has 
a smaller local focus. 
Conversely, our Indian 
chain business focuses on 
the local market.
Map key
Manufacturing and 
sales company
Sales only location
37% 
of global sales
37% 
of global sales
18% 
of global sales
8% 
of global sales
Our international network includes 13 locations where we both manufacture and sell 
and a further nine sales only companies which are strategically located to support our 
customers within our two operating divisions.
Renold employed an average of 2,277 people around the world in the last year, with 
57% of our staff engaged in direct production activities. The divisional split of staff aligns 
closely with the split of sales with 78% of staff in Chain, 21% in T orque Transmission and 
1% in our head office.
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
03
