 12 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
I would like to thank our former CFO, 
Dominique Yates, for his contribution to 
Regus. He leaves us with our balance sheet 
and financial returns looking strong after a 
period of significant expansion. I would also 
like to thank Alex Sulkowski, who retired from 
the Board in May 2015, for his contribution to 
the Board and Group.
An external evaluation of the performance of 
the Board was carried out during the year by 
an independent leadership consultancy. The 
results of the review have been incorporated 
into our efforts to continuously improve the 
processes and effectiveness of the Board.
Our people
Every year , our success is attributable to the 
energy , commitment and skills of our people 
in all the markets where we operate and at 
every level of the organisation. Once again,  
I would like to thank them on behalf of the 
Board for their outstanding contribution, 
delivering another strong set of results for 
the benefit of our customers, our business 
and our investors.
Dividend
We remain committed to a sustainable  
and progressive dividend policy. I am 
therefore pleased to announce that the 
Board is recommending a 13% increase  
in the final dividend to 3.1p per share, 
reflecting the continued strong performance 
of  the business. Subject to the approval  
of shareholders at the 2015 AGM, this  
will be paid on 27 May 2016 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business  
on 29 April 2016. The full year dividend  
is 4.5p (2014: 4.0p), an increase of 13%.
 
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
1 March 2016
Chairman’s statement
Another year of  
substantial development
• The Group has completed 
another year of successfully 
implementing its strategy as 
evidenced by delivering both 
strong results and growth.  
We continue to significantly 
expand the network with 
convenient locations and 
innovative formats for our 
customers, while maintaining 
attractive financial returns.
Douglas Sutherland
Chairman
During the period, Group revenues  
grew to £1,927.0m (2014: £1,676.1m), 
representing an increase of 15.9% at 
constant currency (up 15.0% at actual  
rates). Notwithstanding the significant 
growth in the network, underlying operating 
profit advanced 37% at constant currency  
to £144.8m (2014: £104.3m), up 39% at 
actual rates. Including the non-recurring  
gain of £15.3m, our reported statutory 
operating profit was £160.1m, an increase  
of 51% at constant currency.
This strong performance has been delivered 
whilst adding 554 new locations to our 
network and continuing to drive operating 
efficiency , with overheads as a percentage  
of revenue reducing by a further two 
percentage points. Our strong cash 
generation and disciplined approach  
to investment in growth have also enabled  
the Group to maintain a robust and 
conservative capital structure. 
Rigorous risk management
We continue to take a rigorous approach  
to risk management across every aspect  
of our business. A good illustration of this  
is the process we go through to ensure that 
our new locations deliver the challenging 
financial returns that we seek. Every single 
locality goes through a detailed process 
before approval, comparing its anticipated 
performance against what is being achieved 
in comparable locations, the competitive 
environment and considering the maximum 
cash outlay and downside risk just as much  
as upside potential and returns.
Our investment in growth is kept under 
constant review and can be curtailed within  
a short period if market conditions dictate. 
Over time, we are taking an increasingly 
capital-light approach to investment,  
in which we will increasingly become the 
facilitator between the property investor  
and the end customer , with the aim of 
further improving margins and reducing risk.
Board update
We welcomed Dominik de Daniel, our  
new CFO and COO, to our international 
management team and Board in November 
2015 and look forward to his input as we 
continue to deliver on our growth ambitions. 
He is a proven and capable leader who brings 
very relevant experience to Regus’ finance 
and operations teams. 
In May 2015 we welcomed François Pauly  
to the Board as a new Independent 
Non-Executive Director. François’ extensive 
executive and board experience along with 
his international business knowledge is 
already contributing to the continued 
strategic development of Regus.
