 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
T ell us about the thinking behind 
STEP 2020?
Robert: When we first started to 
describe our three-phase Strategic Plan, 
we said that the different phases were 
not about one or two major projects 
that would solve all of our problems or 
immediately transform the business. 
Instead we have described, in increasing 
levels of detail, that our improvement 
journey will be made up of a significant 
number of individual continuous 
improvement activities. In some ways 
this is similar to the roadmap for 
success of the British Cycling Team 
with whom we have been working for 
a number of years. The idea is that if 
you look at all the different parts of an 
organisation and improve each part 
of it, when you add it all up, you get a 
major improvement in the business as 
a whole.
We have been describing those 
individual initiatives in terms of a series 
of steps that we have then grouped 
into staircases, which share a common 
theme. These themes, or staircases, we 
refer to are: Business Process Efficiency; 
Manufacturing Efficiency; Commercial 
Positioning; Corporate Efficiency and 
Growth Activities. Over the last year we 
have pushed the business to develop 
detailed action plans that cover those 
five staircases that run through to the 
year 2020. It seemed a natural extension 
to christen the overall Strategic Plan 
STEP 2020. Lastly, because of its 
importance for the business, the number 
one priority, Health and Safety, has a 
staircase of its own.
What changes will we see as the 
business moves into the Growth 
phase of the Strategic Plan?
Robert: The first thing to say is that the 
Growth phase activities will be in parallel 
with our restructuring activity. We have 
always said there are large numbers of 
internal, self-help initiatives that we can 
deliver for a number of years to come 
that will all add value to the business. 
Some of those will be about cost 
reduction but some will be about process 
efficiency, lead time reductions and other 
service improvements. So the Growth 
phase activities will be additional to our 
continuous improvement initiatives and 
not as a replacement for them.
The Growth phase will bring in to play 
a number of changes for us with focus 
being a key objective. This change will 
include product focus, channel focus and 
also geographical focus. For example, in 
France, we have separated our Chain and 
Torque Transmission businesses to give 
clearer and more accountable ownership 
for delivery of growth in both distinct 
product groups. We believe in being local 
and convenient for our customers so 
you will see us continually move to be 
closer to their locations. For example, we 
have re-established local sales offices 
in Belgium and Denmark. In other parts 
of the world, we are opening new sales 
offices with local staff in markets where 
we have already developed enough 
critical mass to support the cost base, 
and which will in turn lead to further 
opportunities for growth. 
Are the markets helping or hindering 
you at the moment?
Robert: In general terms things feel a 
little better than last year, though the 
picture is actually quite mixed across 
the different geographies. With the 
exception of Australasia, all of our Chain 
regions posted year on year growth in 
underlying external sales with China and 
India at or around double digit levels of 
sales growth while the larger territories 
of Europe and the Americas showed low 
single digit growth. In Australasia, the 
region showed a very small decline in 
sales, a 0.1% fall this year compared to 
a decline of 7.4% in the prior year. South 
East Asia saw particularly strong growth 
and in the larger Australian market the 
year on year decline more than halved 
from 15.2% to 7.3% and actually showed 
signs of levelling off in the second half of 
the year. The small 1.1% decline in Torque 
Transmission was a major improvement 
on the prior year fall of 5.8%, again 
showing some signs of levelling off.
Chief Executive’s Review
Robert Purcell discusses the strategy and development of the business
“Self-help will 
continue to be a 
major source of 
value generation 
supported by the 
benefits of growth 
as we transition into 
the second phase 
of our STEP 2020 
Strategic Plan.”
Robert Purcell
Chief Executive
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
24 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In summary, the current market 
conditions create a relatively benign 
environment in which to be entering the 
second ‘Growth’ phase of our Strategic 
Plan. We won’t get much help from 
the markets but equally there do not 
appear to be many headwinds that will 
hinder our self-help initiatives aimed at 
growing the business.
Why did you decide to re-finance the 
business 18 months early?
Robert: A number of reasons really.  
While we were setting out the STEP 
2020 detailed action plan, our thoughts 
turned naturally to medium term 
issues such as how we would finance 
our progressive capital investment 
programme. We also wanted to build  
in some future proofing. We would 
expect to be in the third ‘Acquisitions’ 
phase of the Strategic Plan before we get 
to 2020 but the revised financing also 
allows us to take advantage of  
any opportunistic acquisitions that  
arise in the short term. Finally, current 
market conditions for company financing 
are quite favourable with lower costs 
and also longer terms available. The 
combination of these factors created a 
clear and simple value adding imperative 
to put in place a five year financing 
structure that is closely aligned to our 
five year STEP 2020 programme.
Pension deficits seem to be growing. 
What can the business do about it?
Robert: The key thing to remember in 
any discussion of pension deficits is 
that the real issue is the predictability 
and affordability of the cash flows for 
the pension scheme and for Renold, the 
sponsoring employer. While volatility 
in market interest rates for gilts and 
corporate bonds is undoubtedly having 
an impact on balance sheet liabilities, 
the picture for cash flows is much more 
stable. Because we have in place a long 
term plan for funding the UK deficit, 
which sets contributions at £2.6m per 
annum rising by inflation plus 1.5%, we 
have wholly predictable cash flows for 
Renold for a number of years. The UK 
scheme represents over half of all of 
our annual pension cash flows. From 
a pension scheme perspective, this 
predictability of cash flow income is a 
major strength. In addition, because the 
principal UK and German schemes are 
mature in nature, their cash outflows in 
the form of pension payments are also 
very stable and predictable.
In terms of ‘What can be done?’, the 
business has been actively managing 
our legacy defined benefit schemes for 
a number of years. Most recently, we 
completed a medically underwritten 
insured buy-in that fully de-risked 
25% of our highest risk UK pensioner 
members. We also completed the 
termination of one of our three legacy 
schemes in the USA. In the previous 
year we merged three UK schemes and 
1,316 members had their benefits paid 
out in full. The merger and reduction in 
member numbers significantly reduced 
the administrative burden on the 
scheme. We will continue to consider 
other liability management and de-
risking projects.
So where do you think STEP 2020 will 
take the business?
Robert: In the early days of Phase 
One of our Strategic Plan, the 
Restructuring or Turnaround phase, we 
set the goal of delivering double digit 
operating margins. Given the history 
of the business since the turn of the 
millennium, it is not hard to see why this 
was seen as a repeat of the aspiration 
to deliver 10% operating margins or, 
in more sceptical circles, was simply 
seen as undeliverable. As we have 
progressed, belief inside and outside 
the business has grown that 10% is a 
realistic target. Of course, I have never 
tired of saying that double digit includes 
10% but is not limited to that figure. By 
delivering the initiatives underpinning 
STEP 2020, accompanied by organic 
growth in the range of GDP+, we believe 
the business can achieve operating 
margins in the mid-teens and hence 
deliver further major improvements in 
our adjusted earnings per share thereby 
delivering significant increases in 
shareholder value.
Robert Purcell
Chief Executive 
26 May 2015
Turn to page 17 for our three–phase Strategic Plan
Manufacturing Efficiency
Business Process Efficiency Commercial  
Positioning
Growth Activities
Corporate Efficiency
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
25
Strategic Report
