 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
Overview
The past year has been marked by 
a number of notable successes. We 
delivered a significant reduction in our 
breakeven point when we completed 
the closure of the Bredbury chain facility 
under budget and ahead of schedule in 
the first quarter. During the first half 
we also developed a series of five year 
action plans in each unit to advance 
the first two phases of our Strategic 
Plan. That plan is now being further 
developed and communicated to all 
of our stakeholders under the banner 
'STEP 2020'. These actions are the 
multiple individual steps that build to 
deliver our overall strategic goal of mid-
teens operating margins by 2020. 
Re-engineering our future
The successful delivery of the project 
to close the Bredbury manufacturing 
facility and transfer the production to 
three other sister sites was only one 
aspect of the many self-help initiatives 
delivered by the Group during the year. 
Most recently we have also announced 
that we are moving our head office 
to new local premises in Manchester 
which are more suited to the size of our 
business today, are a better reflection of 
the culture that we are seeking, and also 
reduce our fixed overhead base.
Elsewhere, we continue to develop 
and enhance our senior management 
team with recruitment to a number of 
posts that will support the business as 
it makes the transition into the second 
phase of the Strategic Plan, the Growth 
phase. We continue to work hard to 
improve our health and safety culture 
and performance and while this year 
has seen some disappointment in the 
accident statistics, we are confident that 
the continued drive to embed a 'safety 
first' culture will pay dividends in the 
long term.
Our balance sheet
The amendment and extension to 
our core banking facilities that was 
completed in May 2015, just after the 
end of the financial year, put in place 
an important foundation for the next 
phases of our Strategic Plan. The 
revised facilities give access to longer 
term financing that matures in 2020, a 
flexible £20.0m accordion facility that 
can be used for major investments or 
strategically aligned opportunistic bolt-
on acquisitions, and also provide a lower 
cost of financing the Group’s net debt.
De-risking our exposure to defined 
benefit pension schemes remains a key 
priority. During the year one scheme in 
the USA was terminated at minimal cost 
to the Group. Just after the year end we 
announced an insured buy in of 25% of 
the higher risk pension liabilities and 
cash flows in the UK. 
The Group is currently evaluating the 
potential impact of the recent changes 
in UK legislation on flexible retirement 
planning which may allow for further 
de-risking while allowing the members 
of the UK scheme access to the flexibility 
introduced by the Government. De-
risking projects continue to be assessed 
in various territories with open defined 
benefit pension schemes.
Positive outcomes were also delivered 
in net debt and working capital. As a 
result of strong operating cash flows, 
the Group finished the year with net 
debt £5.3m lower than the same time 
last year. 
The Board and our people
The Board continues to support the 
Executive team in reviewing and 
monitoring our continuous improvement 
initiatives. All Board members have 
given additional time and support on a 
wide range of issues during the year. The 
Board remains closely involved in the 
governance of the major projects and 
further evolution of the Strategic Plan.
Chairman’s Letter
“The Group has 
delivered a second 
consecutive year 
of significantly 
improved margins 
and earnings 
growth. We 
continue to build 
and develop our 
three-phase Plan 
to deliver mid-teens 
operating margins 
by 2020. The new 
five year financing 
facility with access 
to additional funds 
positions us well for 
the next phases of 
our strategy.”
Mark Harper
Chairman
Renold plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 for the year ended 31 March 2015
08 23998-04    Proof Two - final 15 June 2015 3:03 PM
In parallel with developing the detailed 
five year plan, we are also working to 
develop and embed a new Group culture 
that will support our change initiatives. 
The 'Renold Values' have been rolled 
out across all of our business units 
this year, and aim to set standards of 
behaviour and expectations for all of our 
employees that will shape and inform 
the manner in which we implement our 
Strategic Plan.
I am grateful for the continued efforts 
and new ideas that our staff are 
bringing to the table in support of our 
Strategic Plan. The pace of change 
remains unremitting and it is truly 
heartening to see the commitment of 
all of our employees in making those 
changes a success. Through our Values 
and regular communication with 
employees we aim to ensure that all 
staff are able to contribute and remain 
fully engaged, motivated and inspired.
Dividend 
The Group has an extensive series of 
planned capital investments in the new 
financial year and capital expenditure 
will increase significantly as a result. The 
new investments are aimed primarily at 
further improving our performance and 
supporting the delivery of our strategic 
objectives. Given these planned 
investments, the Board has decided 
not to recommend the payment of a 
dividend in the current financial year.  
The Board does however recognise the 
importance of dividends to shareholders 
and this will remain under active review 
as performance improves further.
Outlook
Our efforts remain focused on self-help 
initiatives. We have identified a wealth 
of internal improvement and growth 
initiatives in our detailed strategic 
planning process. These serve as a 
reminder that there remains significant 
opportunity and scope for continuous 
improvement. We will continue our 
efforts to create and embed a continuous 
improvement philosophy in all aspects 
of our business, whether front line sales 
and service, manufacturing processes or 
support functions. 
Externally, most of our end markets are 
more stable than would be suggested 
by the extreme volatility in the capital 
and foreign currency markets. The 
combination of these market conditions 
with our self-help initiatives gives 
confidence that, as we transition into 
the Growth phase of our Strategic Plan, 
we are well placed to continue to deliver 
sustainable longer term gains in adjusted 
operating profit and earnings per share.
Achievement of double digit operating 
margins is fast becoming a realistic 
short term opportunity as both 
operating divisions already achieve this 
level of profitability. Robust foundations 
for further improvements have already 
been put in place over the last year 
and we expect to accelerate our capital 
investment programme over the coming 
year. The STEP 2020 programme has 
a medium term goal of delivering mid-
teens operating margins by 2020. 
Mark Harper
Chairman
Pictured: The use of robots at our Chain 
manufacturing facility in Germany is one element 
of our Manufacturing Efficiency programme.  
For further details see page 22: Our Strategy.
Overview
www.renold.com Stock code: RNO
09
