 08 WWW.RENEWHOLDINGS.COM
STRATEGIC REPORT
Renew delivers engineering support services 
to the UK’s critical infrastructure assets. The 
Group has strong, long-term relationships built 
on responsiveness with a range of clients in 
the Energy, Environmental and Infrastructure 
markets. The Group operates in mainly regulated 
markets which have high barriers to entry. 
Integrated engineering services are delivered 
through our strong, independently branded UK 
subsidiary businesses which directly employ a 
highly skilled workforce. Our operations support 
the day-to-day running of key operational 
assets including nuclear and traditional power 
generation sites, water and gas pipes along 
with the rail and wireless telecoms networks. The 
Group also has a Specialist Building operation 
focusing on the High Quality Residential market 
in London and the Home Counties.
Engineering Services
Revenue in Engineering Services increased by 
15% to £440.5m (2014: £382.5m) and accounted 
for 85% (2014: 82%) of Group revenue and 
90% (2014: 88%) of Group operating profit 
prior to exceptional items, amortisation 
and central activities. This generated an 
improved margin of 4.6% (2014: 4.3%). The 
Engineering Services order book has grown 
11% to £400m (2014: £361m).
Energy
In Energy, the Group provides integrated 
engineering support to assets in the nuclear, 
traditional and renewable energy markets 
and in the gas infrastructure market.
During the year, we were appointed by the UK’s 
largest nuclear decommissioning company, 
Magnox, as the sole provider on the £30m 
Electrical, Controls & Instrumentation framework, 
which runs to 2019, across 10 UK sites. The 
Group now delivers multidisciplinary engineering 
services at 15 nuclear licenced sites, where 
we support operational plant associated with 
long-term waste treatment and processing, 
decommissioning and the clean-up of redundant 
facilities. The Nuclear Decommissioning 
Authority’ s expenditure continues at approximately 
£3bn per year, of which 67% is allocated to the 
Sellafield site in Cumbria where the majority of 
our work is undertaken. The Group has operated 
at Sellafield for over 70 years and remains the 
largest mechanical, electrical and instrumentation 
employer on site.
As part of the high hazard risk reduction 
programme at Sellafield, work on the 
Evaporator D project has again grown 
materially ahead of expectation. During the 
year , the Group increased its resources to 
complete critical milestones as the project 
moves towards commissioning. This increased 
scope is now expected to deliver up to £100m 
of work over the duration of the project.
Highlights
 n Continued progression as a leading provider of Engineering Services
 n The Engineering Services order book has grown 11% to £400m
 n Strengthened position in our mainly regulated markets, where 
we undertake essential work
Relationships built 
on responsiveness
Chief Executive’s review
B W May 09 RENEW HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Work on the Multi Discipline Site Works (“MDSW”) 
framework continues and our operations remain 
focused on the largest scope of work, Production 
Operations Support. The MDSW framework, 
where we operate as one of three participants, 
has been extended for two years to early 2017 
and is advertised to deliver £70m annually. 
Other framework extensions during the year 
include the Bundling Spares, Site Remediation 
& Decommissioning Project and Bulk Sludge 
Retrievals Facility frameworks.
The Group also operates in the traditional and 
renewable energy markets for clients including 
E.ON, SSE, Scottish Water and Dwr Cymru 
Welsh Water (“DCWW”) where work includes 
long-term maintenance and asset renewal 
services. Achievements in the year include 
good progress on the hydroelectric scheme at 
Tyn Y Waun Water Treatment Works for DCWW, 
reappointment to the maintenance framework 
at Deucheran Hill Wind Farm by E.ON and the 
refurbishment of the Cuaich Aqueduct on the 
Tummel hydroelectric scheme for SSE.
In the gas infrastructure market work continues 
for National Grid and Southern Gas Networks on 
the 30/30 Iron Mains Replacement programme 
as well as on the London Medium Pressure 
Strategic Gas Mains Replacement programme. 
New frameworks for the delivery of these 
programmes have been slow to gain momentum 
and as a result this business has not performed 
to our expectations, however the addressable 
market is both substantial and visible with the 
national programme for iron mains replacement 
running to 2032 with an estimated value 
of £1bn per annum.
Environmental
The Group provides operational support to 
the water industry where the focus remains 
on maintaining and renewing infrastructure 
assets as well as the flood alleviation and 
river and coastal defence programmes. 
In the year, we continued our long-standing 
relationships with our clients Northumbrian 
Water, Wessex Water and Welsh Water. 
Awards included Northumbrian Water’s AMP6 
Sewerage Repairs and Maintenance Framework 
where we operate as one of two suppliers; 
the framework has an advertised value 
of over £14m per annum to 2024.
Work for Wessex Water continued on the 
Workstream framework during the year with 
new awards including the AMP6 Minor Civils 
framework. Major projects completed included 
the Taunton Grid Scheme. 
Revenue for the Environment Agency has 
doubled in the year where our relationship was 
extended with the award of a £10m MEICA 
framework in 2014. This exclusive framework, 
which runs to March 2018, covers flood and 
water management sites throughout the 
Northern region. The appointment follows 
our success on the existing four Minor Works 
frameworks which were extended for a further 
two years.
In Land Remediation, we operate for National 
Grid on a number of frameworks nationally. 
Other frameworks include the Land Quality 
Services framework with Magnox to remediate 
the sites of former nuclear power generation 
across the UK and a new Landfill Engineering 
framework with Viridor for the North of England 
and Scotland regions. 
Engineering Services revenue
£441m
+ 15%
173
214
232
382
441
11 12 13 14 15
Engineering Services operating profit
£20.1m
+23%
7.5
9.6
10.6
16.3
20.1
11 12 13 14 15
Engineering Services 
as % of Group revenue
85%
49
64
82 82
85
11 12 13 14 15
“ The Group has strong, long-term relationships built on 
responsiveness with a range of clients in the Energy, 
Environmental and Infrastructure markets. ” 10 WWW.RENEWHOLDINGS.COM
STRATEGIC REPORT
Infrastructure
The Group delivers nationally a wide range 
of off-track asset renewal and maintenance 
engineering services as well as providing a 
24/7 emergency service to the rail network. 
These services are provided through Infrastructure 
Projects and Asset Management support for 
Network Rail where we are a top four supplier. 
Following the award in 2014 of a number of 
infrastructure renewal frameworks for Network 
Rail, which run to 2019, we have good visibility 
of future workflow. During the year, works were 
undertaken to enhance the Dawlish lower sea 
wall following our successful operation in 2014 
to reinstate the wall after severe storms. 
Further to our work at Dawlish we have been 
appointed to undertake another coastal line 
protection scheme at Saltcoats in Scotland. 
We are now established as the major structures 
renewals & maintenance contractor in Scotland. 
In Asset Management our frameworks have 
been extended by two years to 2017. We carry 
out infrastructure maintenance works to bridges, 
viaducts, tunnels, culverts, embankments, 
level crossings and line side structures. During 
the year , we have delivered over 5,000 individual 
schemes ranging from minor brickwork repairs to 
major sea defence works and our responsiveness 
was recognised at the National Rail Awards 
where we were presented with “Maintenance 
Team of the Year” . 
In the wireless telecoms infrastructure delivery 
market the Group works for the major cellular 
network operators and original equipment 
manufacturers. This market has seen major 
corporate M&A activity during the year which 
has caused volatility and a performance below 
our expectations. The attraction of this market 
remains as demand for 4G mobile internet 
access and communications is outstripping 
current capacity, requiring additional 
infrastructure, upgrading of existing networks 
and decommissioning of redundant assets. 
Specialist Building
In Specialist Building revenue of £79.5m 
(2014: £82.1m) and an operating profit of 
£2.3m (2014: £2.2m) generated an improved 
margin of 2.9% (2014: 2.6%). Our Specialist 
Building order book stands at £102m (2014: £78m). 
In the High Quality Residential market in London 
and the Home Counties our subsidiary , Walter Lilly , 
is a market leading luxury brand. It focuses on 
major structural engineering works including 
extending properties below ground. In excess 
of £85m of new projects has been secured 
in the period. 
Discontinued operation
On 31 October 2014, the Board reached 
an agreement to sell Allenbuild Ltd to Places 
for People Group Ltd (“PFP”) for a total 
consideration of £2.75m payable in cash. 
PFP paid the initial 50% of the consideration 
on 31 October 2014 and will pay the balance 
on 31 January 2016. Allenbuild Ltd is a business 
focused on the new build affordable housing 
market and as such was not core to the Group’s 
strategy to develop its Engineering Services 
business. In accordance with IFRS 5, the results 
of Allenbuild Ltd have been treated as a 
discontinued business. During the transition 
period, Renew retains the cost and benefit of 
certain contracts. These were secured during 
the recession and subsequently supply chain 
prices have risen markedly resulting in post-tax 
losses of £7.3m in the discontinued business.
Summary
In Specialist Building, our business operates in 
the consistently robust High Quality Residential 
market and continues to improve its quality of 
earnings with an emphasis on risk mitigation.
In Engineering Services, we have strengthened 
our position in our chosen, mainly regulated 
markets, undertaking essential work on critical 
assets where funding is derived from clients’ 
operational expenditure budgets.  Our key 
markets’ characteristics combined with the 
Group’s integrated engineering support services 
model will continue to provide opportunities 
for further profitable growth.
B W May
Chief Executive
24 November 2015
“ Our operations support the day-to-day running of key 
operational assets including nuclear and traditional power 
generation sites, water and gas pipes along with the rail 
and wireless telecoms networks. ”
Chief Executive’s review continued
B W May 11 RENEW HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 11 RENEW HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
