 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our Document Management and 
Relocation divisions both delivered 
very strong growth in operating profit
18
Document Management
Trading in Document Management overall was steady in 2015 
with adjusted operating profits increasing by £3.6 million to 
£15.1 million. Turnover increased from £37.4 million to  
£54.7 million. The majority of the increase in revenue derived 
from acquisitions made during the year. The decline in operating 
margin reflected a higher percentage of revenues deriving from 
activities other than records management, but was also affected 
by the limited initial contribution from those activities.
Records Management comprises the bulk of these results 
and its performance remained robust. Organic box growth in 
the established business, defined as increase in box numbers 
from existing customers, continued to run at 7%, while new 
box growth, at over 6%, was stronger than in prior years 
and well above the industry average. After box destructions 
and permanent retrievals, overall net box growth (before 
acquisitions) was in excess of 6%. The box growth in acquired 
businesses was at appreciably lower levels at both the former 
Cintas UK and Wincanton Records Management businesses and 
we expect this to continue for some time given their weak sales 
pipelines at the time of acquisition. This will adversely affect the 
overall box growth rate in the business in the short term.
Prior to the acquisition of Wincanton Records Management, 
capacity levels across the business were comfortably in excess 
of 90%, and approaching full capacity in the South East. On 
acquisition, Cintas UK had been operating at 68% of available 
space; this is now in excess of 90%, in line with the levels we 
have historically achieved. Combined with extensive cost 
restructuring, the profitability of the former Cintas UK business 
is now in line with the established Restore business. The 
increase in capacity utilisation has been driven by a combination 
of box growth and the closure of several sites across the 
combined business where there was the opportunity to leave 
inappropriate sites at low cost. The acquisition of Wincanton, 
whose pre-acquisition capacity levels in the UK business were 
at 69%, provides us with much-needed space in the South-
East, particularly as we will be exiting our site in Charlton in 
2017. With the need to accommodate new box growth and 
the opportunity to leave certain other sites, we are confident 
that our overall capacity utilisation will have been optimised 
by the end of 2016 and that operating margins in the records 
management division will be in line with historic levels. 
Alongside additional capacity from acquired businesses, we 
continue to develop the most attractive of our existing facilities. 
We are developing another district in our freehold underground 
site in Wiltshire, which we expect to begin utilising in 2017, and 
have continued to lease additional hardened aircraft shelters 
at Upper Heyford, with a further two currently being prepared. 
We have taken on similar aircraft shelters in East Anglia and we 
envisage more capacity will become available there. Overall, we 
feel we are well positioned with the space currently occupied 
and available to us across mainland Britain. In the medium term, 
we expect a shortage of appropriately-priced space in the South 
East to become more of a feature for the sector as a whole.
Restore Scan, which primarily comprises the Cintas UK scanning 
business acquired in October 2014, had a difficult year with 
a poor operational performance on its largest contract and 
several major contracts being delayed. The management 
structure was inappropriate and this was substantially changed 
during the course of the year. We also closed part of our site 
at Peterborough. Despite the poor operational performance, 
Scan’s largest contract has been extended to 2017 and we also 
signed a significant 5-year contract in September with NDA 
Archives. We have several large contracts for NHS Trusts and 
a stable base of recurring business. We have invested heavily 
in Scan and following the changes made during the year we 
believe it has strong growth prospects. 
Restore Shred, our secure shredding and recycling business, 
showed steady organic growth but has yet to achieve the critical 
mass to generate an appropriate contribution to the Group. We 
have invested in new equipment, including a new IT system. 
We continue to expect that Restore Shred will in due course 
become a significant operator in the UK market, particularly by 
leveraging the Group’s customer base effectively, and remain 
confident that it can generate good returns.
Relocation
The Relocation division recorded adjusted operating profits 
for the year of £4.1 million (2014: £3.3 million) on revenue 
of £37.2 million (2014: £30.1 million). The uplift in revenues 
partly reflected the acquisition of ITP Group but was also 
driven by strong organic growth in all three of the ongoing 
business streams.
Revenues in the core Harrow Green office relocation business 
showed yet another strong year-on-year improvement, as well 
as an increase in operating margins. Market conditions remained 
buoyant, particularly in the London office market, and we 
benefited from a continued good level of activity by our major 
customers. Major one-off projects undertaken during the year 
included work for the BBC, European Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, Slater & Gordon and Net-a-Porter. We 
completed our first year of our contract for work with the 
Ministry of Defence, which was particularly busy following the 
rebasing of several Army units to the UK from Germany. GMS, 
our international moves business, showed a strong year-on-year 
improvement in both revenues and contribution. Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
Relocom, our IT relocation business, had an excellent year with 
increased revenues and a doubling of its contribution year-on-
year. Its major customers were active and its contract to install 
collection lockers for Amazon continued to grow. It continues to 
work more closely with Harrow Green and IT Efficient, which is 
being reflected in higher revenues.
IT Efficient, our IT recycling business, increased revenues 
although its contribution to the Group was broadly flat year-on-
year. In the three years since we entered this market we have 
established a blue-chip customer base from whom we receive 
equipment. As we look to broaden IT Efficient’s customer base, 
the Group’s customer base, particularly that of the recently 
acquired ITP business, should be helpful in this regard. 
ITP Group, our toner cartridge recycling business acquired in 
July 2015, achieved revenues and a contribution broadly in line 
with expectations at the time of acquisition. We expect that 
volumes should increase over time as ITP benefits from access 
to the Group’s customers, many of whom are showing interest 
in ITP’s services.
Customers
Our focus on the UK office services market means that we 
deliver at least one of our services to a high proportion of 
UK offices including most of the UK’s larger offices. We seek 
to utilise this extensive customer base by maintaining and 
developing our Group customer relationship management 
system, which all sales people across the Group use. This 
continues to facilitate cross-selling as most of our customers 
have a demand for most of our services and the procurement 
person or team is often the same. We regularly conduct an 
exercise which shows that our current penetration of customers 
in various groupings was:
• 60% of FTSE 100 companies
• 96% of top 25 UK accountancy firms
• 72% of top 100 UK legal firms
• 41% of local authorities in England, Scotland and Wales
• 41% of UK National Health Service trusts.
I believe this represents an excellent indication of the strength 
of our business and the opportunity for future development.
Charles Skinner
Chief Executive
19
Revenue 
2015
Revenue 
2014
Adjusted* Operating 
Profit 2015
Adjusted* Operating 
Profit 2014
Document Management £54.7m £37.4m £15.1m £11.5m
Relocation £37.2m £30.1m £4.1m £3.3m
Head Office costs – – (£1.6m) (£1.9m)
Total £91.9m £67.5m £17.6m £12.9m
* before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation of intangible assets, share based payments charge and other finance costs.
Divisional Performance 
As part of the acquisition of Wincanton Records 
Management from Wincanton plc in December 2015, 
Restore acquired Wincanton’s Irish records management 
business, which has two sites in Dublin, and which was 
subsequently renamed Restore Document Management 
Ireland (RDMI).
In view of Restore’s continued strategic focus on the 
UK mainland, and the limited synergies between RDMI 
and the company’s UK operations, the Board decided to 
dispose of RDMI.
RDMI was sold in March 2016 for €36 million.
Sale of Restore 
Document 
Management 
Ireland Limited
Ireland
