 Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015 16
Results
I am pleased to report another strong performance by your 
Company. For the year to 31 December 2015, profit before tax, 
exceptional items, amortisation, discontinued activities and 
share-based payment charges was £16.3 million, a year-on-year 
increase of 36% (2014: £12.0 million). Turnover was £91.9 million 
(2014: £67.5 million), with a large part of the year-on-year increase 
reflecting acquisitions made in both 2014 and 2015. Earnings per 
share on an adjusted basis were up 27% at 15.6 pence (2014:  
12.3 pence). The recommended final dividend is up 37% at 2.2p.
These results exclude our Irish business, acquired as part of 
Wincanton Records Management in December 2015, whose  
sale was completed on 10 March 2016.
Strategy
We are now established as an important supplier of services to 
UK offices and workplaces. The increase in scale of our business 
in recent years enhances our ability to grow organically through 
increased operational efficiency, cross-selling and greater  
market presence.
The services that all of our operations supply have  
common features: 
• A strong element of recurring revenues
• A degree of operational complexity which enables  
good margins to be achieved
• A similar channel to market: typically through our  
customers’ facilities managers or IT managers
• Switching suppliers is neither desirable nor practical  
for customers
• Reasonable scope for cross-selling most of the other  
services we offer.
Most of our business streams have a significant presence in their 
respective markets. We are well established as one of the two 
major records management businesses in the UK, and further 
strengthened that position following the acquisition of Wincanton 
Records Management in December 2015. Records Management 
currently accounts for about half of Group revenues and the 
majority of Group operating profit and we continue to seek out 
appropriate records management acquisitions. Harrow Green is 
the UK market leader in office relocation by some distance and the 
Relocation division has increased operating profit from £0.3 million 
to £4.1 million over the last four years. 
Restore Records Management and Harrow Green are respectively 
the two leading businesses in our Document Management and our 
Relocation divisions. Sitting alongside these two large activities, we 
have other smaller businesses which either currently have a strong 
UK market position or the opportunity to build one. Our two other 
business streams in the Document Management division, Scan and 
Shred, both have substantial scope for profitable growth and we 
expect them to show significant improvements in profitability over 
the coming years. As part of this, they now have their own newly-
appointed managing director who is focused exclusively on these 
businesses’ growth. In the Relocation division, we offer three other 
services in addition to office relocation: IT relocation, IT recycling 
and toner cartridge recycling, the last of which was added through 
the acquisition of ITP Group in July 2015. We believe all these 
businesses have scope for significant growth and benefit greatly 
from being part of Restore.
We continue to look at opportunities to enter related markets 
which share the attributes referred to above. 
We have invested heavily in terms of management time in 
establishing a Group-wide customer relationship management 
system. This enables all of our sales staff in all our business 
streams to recognise and leverage the contacts we have developed 
elsewhere in the Group. Despite being operationally and 
managerially decentralised, this ability to plug into our Group-
wide customer contacts makes the process far more effective for 
our sales people looking to introduce their service into our Group 
customers. This creates momentum for all sales staff across  
the Group.
We believe that it is key to our business that we focus on areas 
where we can benefit from cost and customer synergies. As part  
of this, on 10 March 2016 we completed the sale for €36 million 
(£27.8 million) of our Irish records management business, acquired 
in December 2015 as part of Wincanton Records Management. 
While this is a high-quality business, it provides limited scope to 
generate substantive cost synergies. We are confident that we will 
be able to generate a better return in the long term on the funds 
realised by redeploying them in our core UK market.
Trading
Our Document Management division performed satisfactorily 
overall. Its turnover was £54.7 million (2014: £37.4 million) and 
adjusted operating profit was £15.1 million (2014: £11.5 million). 
Its core Records Management business continued to demonstrate 
the strength of its financial model. In contrast, our smaller Scan and 
Shred businesses, which had both been substantially enlarged by 
acquisitions made in 2014, performed below our expectations during 
a year of change. We took steps to address the underperformance of 
both businesses during the year and are confident they will deliver an 
improved contribution to the Group in 2016.
Our Relocation division continued to trade strongly. The division’s 
turnover was £37.2 million (2014: £30.1 million) and adjusted 
operating profit was £4.1 million (2014: £3.3 million); these figures 
include ITP Group, the toner cartridge recycling business acquired 
in July. 
Chairman’s Statement
The increase in scale of our business in recent 
years enhances our ability to grow organically 
through increased operational efficiency, 
cross-selling and greater market presence Restore plc Report & Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Other information
17
Corporate Transactions
Much of the operational focus of the Group was on integrating 
the acquisitions made in 2014, notably Cintas UK and Cannon 
Confidential, both of which were operating at marginal 
profitability at the time of acquisition. As expected at the time 
of acquisition, several acquired businesses required substantial 
restructuring during the year and, following significant 
investment, these are now showing a marked improvement  
in profitability under our ownership.
Nonetheless, 2015 was another key year in the strategic 
development of the Group with several acquisitions including the 
largest ever undertaken by Restore. 
In total, six acquisitions were made in the year:
• In January, we acquired Ancora, a records management business 
in East Anglia, a region in which we were under-represented, for 
£0.5 million 
• In July, we acquired ITP Group, the UK’s largest toner cartridge 
recycling business, for £3.6 million (net of cash acquired). This 
took us into a new business activity but one very closely aligned 
to our existing services
• In August, we acquired Data Imaging and Archiving, a scanning 
and records management business based in South London, for 
£1.5 million. We are in the process of relocating the acquired 
boxes into our estate and have transferred the scanning to our 
facility in Hanworth, South-West London
• Also in August, we acquired Crimson UK, a Manchester-
based scanning business for an initial cash consideration of 
£1.0 million. We have subsequently moved its Manchester 
operations into our facility in Manchester
• In December, we acquired Wincanton Records Management, 
one of the largest UK records management companies, which 
also has a significant presence in Ireland, for £57.3 million. 
This extended our position as one of the two major UK records 
management operators
• Also in December, we acquired Diamond Relocations in South 
London for £1.0 million. This provides Harrow Green with a 
South London base and a small records management operation, 
which has been integrated into Restore. 
Funding 
Net debt at the year-end was £60.6 million (2014: £30.9 million). 
The increase in net debt reflects the cost of acquisitions made 
during the year. As part of the acquisition of Wincanton Records 
Management in December, a new banking facility was put in place 
with Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland. We now have in place a 
£50 million Term Loan maturing in December 2020 and a 5-year  
Revolving Credit Facility of £30 million, with an additional  
£20 million available. The Wincanton Records Management 
acquisition was also funded by the placing of 13.1 million shares  
at 260 pence per share.
Following the disposal of our Irish records management business 
for €36 million (£27.8 million) on 10 March 2016, net debt has been 
reduced sharply. We therefore have considerable funds available to 
us to continue to develop the company.
Dividends
Your Board is recommending a final dividend of 2.2p, payable on  
8 July 2016 to shareholders on the register on 10 June 2016. The total 
dividend for the year is 3.2p, a 33% year-on-year increase. It remains 
the Board’s firm intention to follow a progressive dividend policy.
People
Our business has grown significantly in recent years and that is 
reflected in the increased size of our workforce. We now have 
over 1,200 employees. We remain committed to the principle of 
locking power and responsibility together at all levels within the 
business and letting our people get on with their job with minimal 
interference. I believe this lies at the heart of our current success 
as we are wholly dependent on the abilities of our people and their 
commitment to serving our customers.
As our Group increases in scale, we are able to offer greater 
stability and career opportunities for all our people. We are also in 
a position to provide to our people the support and development 
that is appropriate to a larger company without losing the flexibility 
to treat people as individuals.
I thank all our people for their commitment over the last year and 
look forward to them continuing to share in the success of the 
Group. I also welcome the people who have joined us through 
acquisitions made over the year.
Outlook 
Looking ahead, our near-term focus will be on delivering the cost 
and capacity synergies from the Wincanton acquisition, continuing 
to improve the performance of our Shred and Scan businesses, and 
ensuring that our newer activities, in particular IT recycling and printer 
cartridge recycling, benefit in full from the cross-selling opportunities 
that arise from the breadth of the Group’s customer base.
We will continue to pursue our strategy of organic and acquisitive 
growth. The current year has started satisfactorily and we look 
forward to delivering another year of strong progress in 2016.
Sir William Wells
Chairman
24 March 2016
+36%
£91.9m 
(2014: £67.5m)
Revenue (£’m)
+27%
15.6p 
(2014: 12.3p)
Adjusted* earnings  
per share (p)
+36%
£16.3m 
(2014: £12.0m)
Adjusted* profit  
before tax (£’m)
+33%
3.2p 
(2014: 2.4p)
Dividend per share (p)
* Before exceptional items (including exceptional finance costs), amortisation 
of intangible assets, share based payments charge and other finance costs. 
The reconciliation of adjusted figures is shown in the Group Finance  
Director’s statement.
