 10 RGI International Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
With the full support of VEB, the Company has been 
able to push forward with building on the legacy  
of its visionary founder Boris Kuzinez, who created  
a business renowned in Moscow for distinctive, 
aspirational real estate built to a high quality. The  
RGI approach to design and build has been applied 
most recently to its large residential development,  
«V Lesu», in the Moscow Region, where over 30,000 
people will live once the project is completed in 2022. 
Here, a very different kind of neighbourhood is taking 
shape, far removed from most of the mass market 
residential projects that are seen in the suburbs  
of Moscow.
This distinctive look and feel can also be seen at 
Tsvetnoy Central Market, the department store built, 
owned and operated by RGI in the centre of Moscow. 
Both developments have the concept of dynamic 
communities at their heart and it is this key focus, as 
well as design excellence and build quality, that sets 
RGI apart as a developer and gives us the potential  
to deliver superior shareholder returns.
The opportunity for us is clear. RGI operates solely in 
Moscow, the 9th largest city economy in the world 
ranking ahead of cities such as Sao Paulo, Shanghai, 
Beijing and Washington DC. Home to the Russian 
Government it is also the headquarters of most of the 
multinationals operating in Russia across a range of 
industries. Moscow’s economy is significantly 
diversified beyond the natural resources sector, with a 
large industrial base and fast growing technology and 
consumer sectors. Despite a growing population, as a 
result of immigration from the regions, unemployment 
remains low at around 0.5%.
This economic dynamism is resulting in a fast 
expanding, increasingly sophisticated and prosperous 
middle and upper-middle class, constituting a natural 
customer base for both our residential development 
and the Tsvetnoy department store. As in many 
Western cities, the pressure on a limited stock of 
suitable housing in the right areas is high. At «V Lesu», 
we have completed Phase I, opening the doors on a 
new kind of community for the aspirational buyer. We 
are setting unique standards in terms of choice and 
quality in the fit-out of new apartments in a market 
still dominated by shell and core offerings. We are 
distinguishing ourselves by having underground 
parking spaces for every apartment accessible directly 
by lift. Above all, we are offering an attractive, safe, 
desirable neighbourhood with the on-site facilities 
and transport links needed to raise a modern family. 
As we begin to deliver the first completely fitted-out 
apartments to residents in H1 2014, we are 
committed to growing RGI in a responsible way.  
This means looking beyond Phase 2, already under 
construction, to later phases of «V Lesu» and new, 
scalable projects with suitable risk-return profiles.  
At Tsvetnoy, we will continue our efforts to increase 
profitability while looking for opportunities to return 
capital from the operation. The Company’s key 
objective remains to deliver a consistent level of 
positive cash flow each year to improve shareholder 
value, translating over time into growth in net asset 
value per share and a regular dividend stream.
Emmanuel Blouin
Non-Executive Chairman
We are focused on 
building long-term  
value and developing  
a sustainable business
2013 was a transformational year for RGI as we 
welcomed a new majority shareholder and drew a 
line under a difficult period in the Company’s history.
The acquisition in Q1 2013 of a majority stake in RGI 
by Vnesheconombank (“VEB”) group companies 
represents a long-term portfolio investment by one 
of Russia’s largest state owned banks. Our new 
shareholder provides the stability needed to plan for 
the long term on the basis of a relationship 
agreement that provides for VEB’s representation on 
the Board while affirming the principles of best 
corporate governance practices.
The restructured Board has emerged as leaner, 
independent and better balanced. The elevation last 
spring of Andrey Nesterenko to the Board of Directors, 
along with the appointments of David Wood as CFO, 
Natalia Saakyants as Commercial Director and 
Petr Isaev as CEO of Tsvetnoy have put in place a 
dynamic and experienced team combining finance 
and property expertise to lead the Company. 11 RGI International Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Last year, we reported that we had rebranded the 
operating business in Russia as Rose Group, which has 
a better connection with consumers as a brand 
standing for the principles of innovation, design and 
product quality that have made Microgorod «V Lesu» 
a success. This year, the Directors are proposing to 
adopt that name formally for the Group as a whole to 
ensure alignment of our marketing and corporate 
messages. We will be adding such a resolution to the 
agenda for this year’s AGM. 
RGI invests capital in multi-year projects that, over the 
long run, have the potential to deliver superior returns. 
We now enjoy a strong and stable shareholder base, an 
outstanding executive team, a demonstrated ability to 
deliver real estate and exciting growth prospects 
embedded in our current portfolio as well as potential 
acquisition opportunities. Our management team in 
Moscow has the experience to generate good deal flow, 
and the expertise to analyse opportunities quickly and 
thoroughly. Our business is well-positioned for future 
growth. We must however caution that it is too early to 
assess fully the economic impact of the crisis in Ukraine 
and the Company is actively monitoring the situation.
Emmanuel Blouin
Non-Executive Chairman
“Our new shareholder provides the stability needed to plan for 
the long term”
Vnesheconombank
• Founded in 1922
• 100% owned by Russian Federation 
• Senior government representation on the Supervisory Board
• Direct equity contributions from the Federal Budget 
• Cooperation with the key development financial institutions worldwide 
• International credit ratings 
Fitch – BBB / Stable 
S&P – BBB / Stable 
Moody’s – BAA1/Stable
Vnesheconombank is a Russian state corporation performing functions of the Bank for Development. Its 
mission is to diversify the Russian economy, boost its competitive edge and encourage the inflow of 
investments. Vnesheconombank funds major investment projects aimed at removing economic growth 
infrastructure restrictions. As a development bank, VEB does not compete with commercial credit 
institutions and has a mandate to fund socially important projects. 
