 RIGHTSTER GROUP PLC (COMPANY NUMBER 08754680) 
CEO’S REPORT 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
5 
 
CEO’s Report 
 
I love video. It is the driving force of communication in the connected age. As humans, we are biologically 
designed to focus on it as our preeminent medium. For this reason, I have chosen to dedicate my career to it, 
bringing great experiences to brands and consumers alike. 
 
I founded Base79 Limited with this in mind. An unerring belief in where the consumer will go and inevitably 
where the advertiser must follow. Having founded Base79 Limited from my study in 2007, I thought I’d come to 
the natural end of the journey with the sale of my business to Rightster Group plc. However, the combination of 
a high share allocation from our earn-out and the collapsing Rightster share price made me and my family, once 
more, large shareholders in the business. As I considered the next business I would start, it became apparent to 
me that Rightster was a great platform - endowed with expertise, a truly international foot-print, amazing 
customers and capable technology – something which I could use for the next chapter of online video. To this 
end, supported by the major shareholders of the business, we returned with a new board, new plan and new 
funding. Our primary financial goal is to achieve profitability to stop the business being an on-going drain on 
shareholder funds. 
  
Driven by grand ambitions but poor execution, Rightster has never been adept at doing simple things. We have 
come back with a basic three-pronged plan: (1) simplify the business, (2) focus on organic revenue growth by 
adding true value to our partners and (3) create new IP-rights allowing the Group to take ownership of content 
and intellectual property in the developing online video world. In a world increasingly dominated by huge 
technology platforms such as Facebook, SnapChat and YouTube, it is critical to have a defensible, scalable 
strategy creating long-term value for all stakeholders in our business. 
  
We completed our new funding round on 6 January 2016 and simultaneously executed a restructuring. In 
conjunction with our new strategy we have reviewed the business model, resulting in an impairment charge to 
Non-current assets, more fully described in the Strategic Report. We closed several offices and rationalised a 
number of our teams into simpler groups. The actions taken are leading to better communication, improved 
delivery to our partners and better management through being closer to the coal-face, working day-to-day with 
content-owners, brands and our team to maximize the value we add. We are turning over every stone, 
encouraging our colleagues to take responsibility and running our company like it’s our own money, because it is.  
 
Outlook 
 
Our recent restructuring was completed ahead of time and has led to an additional £4 million in annualised cost 
savings being achieved. Through our new strategy, we have created a platform for a viable online video business, 
which we look forward to moving to profitability. Current trading in 2016 is in line with management 
expectations. Based on unaudited numbers, we have already seen a 76% improvement in our adjusted EBITDA 
loss for the period Jan- Mar ’16 compared to the same period in the prior year (currently at £(0.9 million) 
compared to £(3.7 million) for Jan – Mar ’15).  
 
The Company is entering a brave and exciting new chapter but Rightster is a company that has grown through 
acquisition and most of its people and customers were a result of those acquisitions. In line with our new 
strategy, it is time to change our name, change our brand position and challenge how we and our customers 
think of us. Our new name, Brave Bison, is a bold statement of intent to the marketplace and to content-makers. 
Brave Bison embodies the spirit and values, the attitude and energy, necessary for our company’s essential next 
chapter. To maintain competitive advantage in a world that is always changing, the future online video business 
needs to commercialise audiences by succeeding across ‘the full spectrum of content’ - from managing existing 
to conceiving and producing fresh, exciting, original video. Having spent 22 years in the global media and 
advertising business, I can tell you there is no more important position for our company to be in. Subject to 
approval in the Annual General Meeting, we expect to start trading as Brave Bison Group plc on 10
th
 May 2016.  RIGHTSTER GROUP PLC (COMPANY NUMBER 08754680) 
CEO’S REPORT 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
6 
 
I cannot end without mention of my colleagues. They have withstood a lot due to an historically ill-defined 
business model, an uncertain financial environment and three CEOs in ten months. For many, the journey has 
come to a natural end. For those joining us to write the next chapter, I thank you. Not because it’s customary for 
a PLC CEO to write it in documents such as this but because I am humbled by your faith in the plan we are 
delivering together. There will be more change, no doubt, in the coming months and years but I am confident 
that we can adapt, learn and grow as we move forward. 
 
Ashley MacKenzie 
 
CEO, Rightster Group PLC 
