 Chief executive’s statement
Dear shareholders,
The past year created significant challenges
for our industry, and against this backdrop we
have again delivered robust financial and
operational performance.
In 2015 our focus on cash generation was
relentless. We reduced our cost base by
US$1.3 billion, exceeding our revised target of
US$1 billion. We lowered our capital
expenditure to US$4.7 billion and we ended the
yearwithnetdebtatUS$13.8billion.
Our performance is important because we
delivered on our targets, and because we did
what we said we would do: focus on value and
meet our commitments to improve the
business for you, our shareholders.
Rio Tinto’s proactive actions over the past
three years mean we have one of the strongest
balancesheetsintheindustry.Wehave
reduced our costs by over US$6 billion since
the start of 2013, reshaped and strengthened
our portfolio, and reduced capital expenditure
and working capital. As a result of these
actions, we have returned over US$13 billion of
cash to shareholders since 2012.
This performance is due to the hard work of our
talented employees around the world, the
superior quality of our Tier 1 assets and our
operating and commercial excellence.
Whilewehaveachievedagreatdeal,we
recognise the current market environment
requires even more from us. This is why we
have announced a new pre-emptive package
of measures. Over the next two years, we
aim to cut operating costs by a further
US$2 billion, remove US$3 billion of capital
expenditure, compared with our previous
guidance, and implement a new dividend
policy,asexplainedbyourchairmaninhis
letter on the previous page.
These significant actions provide us with the
confidence that we remain well positioned to
maintain balance sheet strength and deliver
shareholder returns through the cycle.
Safe and reliable operations
Safeandreliableoperationswillalwaysbeour
number one goal.
We have made real progress to reduce
employee injury rates across our business. In
2015 we achieved the lowest injury frequency
rate in Rio Tinto’s history but we must do more
to eliminate fatalities.
Tragically, four of our colleagues lost their lives
at our operations in 2015 and our thoughts are
with their families and friends.
In January at QIT Minerals in Madagascar,
Todson Rafaralahiniriko drowned when the
excavator he was operating slid down a tailings
embankment into water.
In February at Zululand Anthracite Colliery in
South Africa, security officer Themba Thusi
died when the car he was driving rolled on a
bend on a gravel road.
In May at Rio Tinto Fer et Titane in Canada,
LucTrudeldiedwhileworkinginateamusing
a high-pressure water hose to perform a
cleaning task.
In August in Guinea, Mohamed Lamine Cherif
drowned when a bridge on a public road to our
Simandou operation collapsed and his truck
became submerged.
To help us eliminate fatalities we will
implement a new programme, critical risk
management (CRM), across the Group. CRM
involves every person identifying the risks in a
given task, and verifying appropriate controls
are in place before starting the activity.
World-class assets and
performance
The steep fall in a range of commodity prices
has been particularly challenging for our
industry and has had a direct impact on our
earnings. Within this environment, the
company’s world-class businesses remain
focused on generating superior margins
and cash.
In 2015 our iron ore business delivered
underlying earnings of US$3.9 billion and
closed the year with Pilbara FOB EBITDA
marginsof60percent.
The focus of our iron ore business in 2015
centred on extracting full value from the
investmentswehavemadeinourassets
and infrastructure.
During 2016 we will celebrate 50 years of iron
ore exports from Australia and our business
remains the cost and quality standard by which
others seek to be measured.
Rio Tinto has the world’s best aluminium
business with global smelting assets averaging
in the first quartile of the industry cost curve
and a leading position in bauxite.
The product group achieved a solid
performance in 2015, with underlying earnings
of US$1.1 billion despite lower prices.
Integrated EBITDA margins increased year-on-
year to 31 per cent.
The Copper & Coal product group, impacted by
lower prices, delivered underlying earnings of
US$274 million.
Rio Tinto’s share of mined copper production
waslower,asanticipated,principallydrivenby
Rio Tinto Kennecott where efforts were
undertaken to de-weight and de-water the
east pit wall, following the slide in 2013.
Coking coal production increased in 2015
versus 2014, and thermal coal production was
broadly in line with 2014.
The Diamonds & Minerals product group
continues to focus on cash generation.
Underlying earnings of US$189 million were
30 per cent lower than 2014, primarily driven
by lower sales prices and reduced volumes in
response to soft market conditions. The
product group continues to optimise
production to align with market demand.
The Argyle diamond underground mine
continued to ramp up throughout 2015.
Portfolio renewal and growth
In 2015 we announced the sale of our interest
in the Bengalla thermal coal joint venture. This
completedon1March2016andRioTinto
received consideration of US$0.6 billion. In
January 2016 we announced the sale of our
share of the Mount Pleasant thermal coal
assets in Australia. That sale is expected to
close in the second half of 2016.
Duringtheyearwealsosoldourinterestinthe
Murowa diamond mine in Zimbabwe and a
number of Rio Tinto Aluminium’s ancillary
businesses in Europe.
Asset sales announced or completed since
the end of 2012 have realised more than
US$4.7 billion, which has been used to
reduce debt, deliver returns to shareholders,
or fund growth.
In 2015, we cut our capital expenditure to
US$4.7 billion but not at the expense of
facilitating high value growth options. The four
major projects we progressed last year
exemplify the diverse nature of our portfolio
and commitment to quality growth: the
completion of the Pilbara iron ore
infrastructure; the pouring of first hot metal at
the modernised Kitimat smelter; the project
financing package agreed for Oyu Tolgoi
underground; and the approval of the Amrun
bauxite project.
Each is unique. All are world-class and ideally
positioned on the cost curve to deliver value for
many years.
In the Pilbara in Australia all key elements of
our growth infrastructure are now largely
complete and our focus has shifted to
generating maximum value from our assets
andinstalledcapacity.
Kitimat in Canada is now one of the world’s
most modern large-scale aluminium smelters.
It uses our energy efficient proprietary
technology. Its ramp-up is well under way and
it is expected to achieve nameplate capacity in
the first half of 2016.
In December the development of the
Oyu Tolgoi underground copper mine in
Mongolia took an important step forward with
the signing of the US$4.4 billion project
financing agreement. Next steps include
securing all necessary permits, finalising the
feasibility study, and consideration of approval
of the project by the various boards.
2015 Annual report riotinto.com 5
STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS’ REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PRODUCTION, RESERVES
AND OPERATIONS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Chief executive’s statement
continued
The planned output from the Amrun bauxite
mine in Australia, due from 2019, is partly
expected to replace production from the
depleting East Weipa mine which has been a
reliable supplier of quality bauxite for more
than 50 years.
Technology and environmental
leadership
Technology and innovation has been one of
Rio Tinto’s strengths for decades.
In 2015, at our iron ore operations in the
Pilbara we deployed our 71st automated truck
and we are progressing advancement of the
world’s first fully autonomous, heavy-haulage,
long-distance rail system.
We are also trialling drones to measure
stockpiles and assist with many tasks,
including maintenance and
environmental programmes.
Technology can also drive energy and
water efficiency and reduce our
environmental footprint.
As a business, we must ensure our operations
are safe and well managed from an
environmental perspective.
In August we further strengthened our tailings
andwaterstoragestandards.AcrosstheGroup
we have a provision of US$8 billion for future
rehabilitation and closure costs.
We have many award-winning examples of
mine rehabilitation and restoration. In March
2015, we agreed to relinquish
175,000 hectares of land on the Mitchell
Plateau to help establish Australia’s largest
national park, covering over two million
hectares across the Kimberley region of
Western Australia.
Our Sustainable development section provides
more details on our performance in this critical
area (see page 22).
Ready for new challenges
ItisasourceofgreatpridetoseeRioTinto
people in action, at work and in the community
helping us build a more resilient and trusted
business.
The actions of all of our people around the
world sustain a vibrant and values-driven
culture which is at the heart of our company.
The year ahead is expected to be particularly
tough for our industry but we have taken
further proactive measures from a position
of strength.
In my time in the industry I have seen many
cycles. Those companies, like ours, with the
highest-quality assets and the financial
strength to invest through the cycle are those
that can deliver long-term value.
So we have set stretching but realistic
ambitions and we will make best use of
our strengths.
In the year ahead we will do all we can to
improve our safety and business performance,
continue our focus on cash, and preserve the
strength of our balance sheet.
I would like to close by thanking our
stakeholders for their trust, and you, our
shareholders, for investing in Rio Tinto.
Sam Walsh AO
Chief executive
2 March 2016
6 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report
