 4  rightmove.co.uk
demand. Last year we attracted 200 million more consumer 
visits than the previous year and generated a record 50 million 
leads for our customers. Rightmove’s popularity is showing 
no signs of letting up and we have already set new site trafﬁ c 
records this January. 
Our customers have also beneﬁ tted from a continuous 
roll-out of additional advertising products to reach their 
audience of home sellers, landlords and home hunters. 
There is a wide range of choice and discretion to shape 
and reinforce brand identity on Rightmove to compete for 
business and market homes. There is also an increasing range 
of valuable tools, support and data available to our customers 
to assist them to operate their businesses more effectively 
and efﬁ ciently. 
Since Rightmove’s strategy does not depend on capital 
expenditure or M&A, the Board has a policy of distributing all 
of its free cash ﬂ ow each year. In fact, Rightmove has returned 
all of its free cash ﬂ ow since inception, totalling nearly £600m, 
through a combination of increased dividends and share 
buybacks. Our shareholders beneﬁ t from a predictable 
business model that is buoyed by our growing market 
leadership, together with clear and refreshingly candid 
communication from our executives.
Once again, the Board and I are grateful for the conﬁ dence 
and support of all our customers and for the talent and 
dedication of our employees. Together their efforts have 
positioned Rightmove as the essential marketplace for home 
hunters to ﬁ nd their next home and for property advertisers 
to reach by far the widest possible audience.
I am pleased to present Rightmove plc’s results for the year 
ended 31 December 2015.
As we report on our 15th consecutive year of growth, 
I’d like to pick up on a theme raised in the Strategic Report: 
‘Doing the right thing’. This uncompromising principle 
supports the ethos of the Group. The philosophy drives our 
high achieving network business and what we do for our trade 
customers on one side of the network and our web and 
mobile visiting consumers on the other side. It also extends to 
our focus and behaviours towards all stakeholders including 
our investors, analysts, employees and our Board.
The team’s relentless focus and sensitive examination of 
our consumer experience has been the catalyst for continual 
improvements to site navigation and design. We aim for 
simplicity of use and an engaging experience. Of course 
our site trafﬁ c is in part a natural consequence of the best 
consumer proposition in the market, with almost 50% more 
listings than any other UK property portal, but it is in the main 
driven by the huge trust built up in our brand over the past 15 
years. The team works diligently to maintain a site that delivers 
the desired information when it is wanted and in the form it is 
wanted and we achieved an enviable 99.997% level of site 
availability last year. 
Our nearly 20,000 customers have beneﬁ ted from our 
ever-growing popularity with the British home moving public. 
We have delivered 15 consecutive years of site trafﬁ c growth 
for our customers and have been consistently ranked in the 
top ten sites in the UK irrespective of cyclical housing 
Strategic report | Chairman’s statement
Scott Forbes 
Chairman Rightmove plc annual report 2015      5
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
(1) Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
(2) Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
Corporate governance
One of the Board’s responsibilities is ensuring that the Group 
applies good governance to facilitate effective management of 
a high growth business. As the Company’s Chairman I am 
pleased to note that the Group is continuing to foster an 
environment of entrepreneurial leadership and innovation in a 
framework of responsible governance and risk management 
as set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 26 
to 37.
Board changes
Jonathan Agnew and Judy Vezmar both retired from the 
Board at the Group’s Annual General Meeting in May 2015 
after nine years of service. On behalf of the entire Board, 
I would like to thank them both for their substantial 
contributions to the Group, and wish them every success. 
Peter Williams has ably replaced Jonathan Agnew as 
Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee 
Chairman.
Outlook 
Our results for 2015 show us continuing to outperform 
expectations. Based upon strong customer numbers and 
trafﬁ c, and healthy growth in average spend per advertiser at 
the start of the year, the Board remains conﬁ dent of continued 
success in 2016. 
Scott Forbes
Chairman
Financial results
The strength of our business model and core value 
proposition underpin record ﬁ nancial results in 2015. 
Underlying operating proﬁ t
(1)
 was up 16% to £144.3m 
(2014: £124.6m) driven by strong organic revenue growth of 
15% to £192.1m (2014: £167.0m) and continued focus on 
cost control. Underlying basic earnings per share (EPS)
(2)
 
was up 21% to 121.4p (2014: 100.3p), even greater than 
the percentage increase in proﬁ ts and in part attributable to 
£76.1m of share buybacks as part of our policy of returning 
cash to shareholders.
Returns to shareholders
Our commitment to return excess cash promptly to investors 
continues to be as strong as ever. Cash conversion remains in 
excess of 100% of operating proﬁ t. In 2015, we returned a 
further £112.5m (2014: £103.4m) to shareholders through 
dividends and share buybacks. 
Dividend
The Board previously announced that it would increase the 
interim dividend to 16.0p (H1 2014: 13.0p) per ordinary share, 
which was paid on 6 November 2015. Consistent with our 
policy of increasing the total dividend for the year broadly in 
line with earnings, the Board proposes to pay a ﬁ nal dividend 
of 27.0p (2014: 22.0p) per ordinary share for a total dividend 
for the year of 43.0p (2014: 35.0p), an increase of 23%. 
The ﬁ nal dividend, subject to shareholder approval, will be 
paid on 3 June 2016 to all shareholders on the register on 
6 May 2016.
Rightmove’s popularity is showing 
no signs of letting up and we have 
already set new trafﬁ c records 
this January.
