 RIGHTSTER GROUP PLC (COMPANY NUMBER 08754680) 
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
3 
 
Chairman’s Report 
 
Turning a company around is not an easy task. Particularly when it means stemming a severe cash drain and, at 
the same time, devising a completely different strategy. But that is what your new team has taken on and credit 
should go to existing and new shareholders for backing us with £10m of new money. 
 
What is required is energy, creativity and courage. Our team leader, Ashley MacKenzie and his right hand man, 
Richard Mansell, have those qualities together with a deep knowledge of the business we are in, stemming from 
their success at Base79 Limited, a company which Rightster found so attractive when acquired 18 months ago. 
 
Perhaps too attractive because, short of their leadership, it could not provide the solution to the challenges 
facing the Group. A change of the Rightster CEO and CFO at the start of 2015 was not enough, despite 
growing revenue and gross margins, to sufficiently slow down the cash outflow, resulting in the Group 
undertaking a strategic review in the autumn of 2015. A variety of options were being considered by the then 
board, including a sale of the Group.  
 
While the strategic review was taking place, Messrs MacKenzie and Mansell, motivated by the substantial 
shareholding both now held as a result of the second stage of the Base79 Limited earnout and concern over the 
Group’s cashflow (given the Group had chosen to settle the remaining part of the earn-out in shares rather than 
cash), started planning their rescue bid. They invited me to join them with the prospect of becoming Chairman, 
if successful. 
 
My business background is media, starting out as a local newspaper journalist, but largely with a company called 
EMAP which, with a group of highly talented people, we built from local newspapers into magazines, radio, 
business information and exhibitions. I was Chief Executive and, briefly Chairman. In the last 15 years I have 
been involved in a wider variety of media such as HMV, Channel 4 and the Racing Post. But mostly in small fast 
growth companies such as Digitalbox, Edge Performance VCT and Crash Media Group - all data or 
entertainment-related via online. As an angel investor in Base79 Limited, I became a Rightster shareholder last 
year. 
 
Our approach to the major shareholders, proposing that we take over from the existing board and replace the 
Chief Executive Officer, was accepted and they gave their assurance that they would look favourably at 
supporting the fund raise set at £10 million. This they did and the money was raised on 6 January 2016. A new 
board was formed comprising me as Chairman, Ashley MacKenzie (Chief Executive Officer), Richard Mansell 
(Chief Operating Officer) and Mark Cranmer, formerly global executive director of Dentsu Aegis, was invited to 
join as a Non-Executive Director. Chief Financial Officer, Niall Dore, remained in post, as did Non-Executive 
Director, Jack Barnett. Patrick Walker (formerly Chief Executive Officer) moved to a role as Non-Executive 
Director. 
 
A SWOT analysis on Rightster today would show more ticks in the left hand boxes (Strengths and 
Opportunities) than it would have done a year ago. But the right hand boxes (Weaknesses and Threats) still 
contain too many. There remains a huge amount of work to be done. The first 100 days have been focussed 
mainly on cost reduction and restructuring - we now employ less than half the people that were with the Group 
in 2014, partly through being in fewer territories.  Less is more. 
  RIGHTSTER GROUP PLC (COMPANY NUMBER 08754680) 
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT 
For the year ended 31 December 2015  
4 
 
But that is not all. We have to steer a new course. It is said that change presents opportunity. Indeed it does and, 
in the media world, there has been more change in the last ten years than in the previous fifty. The model that 
served Base79 Limited well, delivering content for clients and agencies via digital channels such as YouTube, has 
attracted many competitors and squeezed margins. 
 
What is emerging, driven by the huge growth of YouTube and the all-powerful Facebook parking their tanks on 
Google's lawn, is a new ability to deliver information and entertainment for so-called millennials via online, 
particularly mobile. This is their normal mode of communication, utilising video and commentary, which is fast 
replacing words and pictures in what is now becoming old-fashioned and declining print media. 
 
We employ a lot of talented people but, now the restructuring phase is mostly over, our focus is making sure we 
have the right talent to take us into this new world of owner-operated channels. They will be invented by us, 
launched by us and the brand owned by us. It is challenging, slightly scary, but it is going to be huge and I am 
confident we have the leadership to deliver it. 
 
Our current business is still very strong and will remain so for some time but for us to deliver extraordinary 
growth to shareholders and people who work with us, who we rely on and want to be proud of their company, 
this is the future. Let's get on with it. 
 
 
 
 
 Sir Robin Miller 
 
Chairman, Rightster Group PLC. 
