 Chairman’s letter
Dear shareholders,
Last year I noted that in times of challenging
markets, investors sought strength
and reliability.
It is pleasing to report that during 2015 your
company has displayed such qualities and
delivered a solid performance, despite an
exceptional level of economic volatility.
The continued deterioration in the macro
environment has generated widespread market
uncertainty. Global economic growth was
subdued last year and reflected a deepening
of the cyclical downturn in most
commodity markets.
Even before the recent challenges, we took
measures to reshape Rio Tinto – a plan that has
deliveredresults.Thisisasignificant
achievement for Sam Walsh and his team, but
ofcoursethereismorewemustdo.
The year ahead will be challenging for our
industry and we are taking further pre-emptive
action to ensure the company’s ongoing
strength. We will continue to run the business
with the long-term interests of you, our
shareholders, in mind.
Strength in turbulent times
In 2015, your company achieved underlying
earnings of US$4.5 billion and operating cash
flows of US$9.4 billion. Our underlying earnings
were US$4.8 billion lower than in 2014 due to the
significant impact of reduced commodity prices.
This impact was partly offset by management’s
drive to significantly reduce cash costs and
improve productivity at all of our businesses.
The net loss of US$0.9 billion reflects non-cash
exchange rate and derivative losses of
US$3.3 billion, and impairment charges of
US$1.8 billion. The impairments mainly relate
to the Simandou iron ore project, Energy
Resources of Australia and the Roughrider
uranium project.
These results reflect continued investment
over many decades in long-life, low-cost,
expandable operations in the most attractive
industry sectors. This strategy ensures that
Rio Tinto owns the best assets for delivering
long-term value. At a time of significant
industry change and curtailments, your
company has the resilience and strength to
continue to progress world-class growth
projects in bauxite, copper and iron ore.
Global growth
The slowdown in emerging markets limited
global growth to around three per cent in 2015.
The impact on commodity demand was much
stronger, led by a further deterioration in key
metal-intensive sectors in China.
China’s gross domestic product (GDP)
growth slowed moderately to just below seven
per cent, as the transition to its “New Normal”
was further impacted by the industrial cycle.
Consumption supported the economy but
investment and exports weighed on growth.
In particular, the slowing growth of China’s
construction and industrial sectors, as the
transition to a service-based economy takes
place, has negatively impacted
commodity demand.
The US Federal Reserve’s first interest rate
hike since the financial crisis has been
interpreted as a sign that the US economy
continued to strengthen in 2015. Consumer
demand is strong but growth momentum was
dampened by the impact of lower oil prices.
Against this backdrop, prices for several
commodities are at levels not seen since 2005
or only briefly at the depth of the global
financial crisis.
The economic environment represented
significant challenges for industry margins
during the year and this is likely to persist
in 2016.
Returns to shareholders
The strength of the company’s performance
gave the board the confidence to announce, in
February 2016, a 2015 full year dividend of
215 US cents per share. In 2015, we returned
US$6.1 billion to our shareholders, through a
combination of dividend payments and
buy-backs.
Over the last five years we have returned more
than US$25 billion to our shareholders,
underlining our commitment to
shareholder returns.
However, with the continuing uncertain market
outlook, the board has determined that
maintaining the progressive dividend policy
wouldhaveconstrainedthebusinessand
acted against shareholders’
long-term interests.
We have therefore replaced the progressive
dividend policy with an approach that will allow
the distribution of returns to better reflect the
company’s position and outlook.
We recognise that this decision may disappoint
some of our shareholders but we believe our
new dividend policy better reflects the cyclical
nature of our industry. For 2016, we intend that
the full year dividend will be no less than
110 US cents per share.
Our goal is to maintain balance sheet strength
and deliver shareholder returns through the
cycle. We believe the quality of our assets
provides a sound base for future returns.
Our public and community role
Over the past year, considerable action has
taken place to reduce trade barriers, lift
people from poverty and protect the
environment. As a leading global company,
Rio Tinto has publicly engaged in
support of these efforts.
During 2015 we were an active participant in
the business community advisory group to
G20 leaders, providing a business perspective
on drivers for economic growth and supporting
public policy that advances sustainable
economic development.
In October, the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP)
was secured after seven years of negotiations
among 12 countries in the growing
Pacific region. The TPP promises to
open markets in the region and secure the
rules-based trading system upon which
companies like Rio Tinto and our
customers depend.
In December, during the annual Conference of
Parties 21 (COP21), a global agreement was
reached to address climate change. Rio Tinto
signed the Paris Pledge for Action to reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, which is a further
example of our commitment to be part of the
climate solution.
Central to this, we set quantified emissions
intensity reduction goals. Over the last
sevenyearswehaveachievedareductionof
(a) Summarised on page 24.
more than 21 per cent in our emissions
intensity, exceeding the targets we set. We
have extended our GHG emissions intensity
targetto2020.Thenewtargetisfora
24 per cent reduction from our 2008 baseline.
For the long term, we are committed to
significantly decarbonising our business by
2050 and making our businesses and projects
resilient to climate change impacts. To drive
this internally, we are building climate change
related metrics into our planning, risk and
investment decisions.
Society’s expectations are increasing, both in
terms of the visibility of our public promises and
the transparency of our local actions. In light of
the restructuring occurring across the extractive
sector, some of our stakeholders may question
the value of our industry and the role we play.
But when you consider that in the five years to
the end of 2015, Rio Tinto’s direct economic
contribution
(a)
has exceeded US$265 billion,
webelievethevaluewebringisclear.We
also lead our industry in tax transparency,
through the publication since 2010 of our
annual Taxes paid report.
Active governance
In May 2015, Lord Kerr and Michael Fitzpatrick
stepped down as non-executive directors after
many years of significant service on the board.
In May 2016, Richard Goodmanson will retire
from the board after 11 years. I am very
grateful to them all for their considerable
contribution and tremendous commitment to
Rio Tinto over many years.
A key role of the board is to ensure adherence
to the company’s strategy and plan for future
growth.Withthisinmindtheboardvisited
two of our world-class businesses in 2015 to
get a first-hand view of the company’s assets
and people: our modernised aluminium
smelter at Kitimat in British Columbia, Canada,
and our bauxite operations at Weipa in
Queensland, Australia.
Moving forward with confidence
Despite the uncertain conditions that we
currently face, the long-term outlook for our
sector remains positive.
Inthenext15years,theworld’spopulation
will increase by more than one billion people
and almost half a billion people in China,
India and the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) region will move from rural to
urban environments.
Thesefactorsdrivedemandfortheminerals
andmetalsweproduce,asessential
ingredients of modern life.
I would like to congratulate our diverse team of
talented employees around the world. Without
their enthusiasm and commitment to integrity
we would not be the strong values-driven
company we are. On behalf of the board, thank
you for your continued support.
Jan du Plessis
Chairman
2 March 2016
4 riotinto.com 2015 Annual report
