 Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Overview
04
Chairman’s statement
Rosslyn Analytics is a fine example of British 
innovation. From its inception, Rosslyn Analytics 
wasn’t just one of the early originators of  
cloud-based analytics delivered as a service.”
Results
The financial year to 30 April 2015 was the first full year 
as a public company for Rosslyn Data Technologies plc 
after the listing on AIM in April 2014. I am delighted with the 
progress we have made in the year. Our task this year has 
been to deploy a significant element of the IPO funds into 
the business to allow a transformation to profitability and 
organic cash generation to take place. This task is not yet 
complete and there is further work to do in 2015–16 to 
achieve our goals but we have made a strong start.
Group revenue increased by 37% to £2.8m (2014: £2.1m). 
The second half of the year saw a growth rate of 50% on 
a year-on-year basis. As we have deployed funds into an 
enlarged product development team and sales and marketing 
we have seen an increase in losses at the EBITDA level. In 2015 
the losses increased to £3.4m (2014: £2.8m before exceptional 
items). This was somewhat less than we anticipated at the 
start of the year. 
We ended the year with net cash balances of £4.7m 
(2014: £8.8m). The consumption of cash is largely accounted 
for by the losses in the period and paying the remaining 
outstanding fees associated with the IPO. The Board believes 
that we have adequate cash resources to take the Group 
through to break-even and cash generation.
Strategy
The Group’s strategy remains unchanged from the time 
of our listing. We are committed to growing revenues 
through a dual-track strategy of direct sales and working 
with partners. The Group’s relationship with Xerox goes 
back to 2013. Our relationship continues to grow and we 
have confidence that this relationship will continue to 
flourish. They remain our single largest customer.
During the year we established a new partnership relationship 
with PricewaterhouseCoopers. This relationship is developing 
in an encouraging manner and I look forward to reporting 
on further progress next year. As a result of this relationship 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP stood down as auditors during 
the year. They took up their appointment in 2013 and acted 
as reporting accountants during our listing process and as 
auditors for the financial years 2013 and 2014. I would like 
to thank them on behalf of all shareholders for their help, 
support and objectivity. Grant Thornton UK LLP has replaced 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as auditors and we 
look forward to working with them.
Our direct sales operation has also had a successful year. We 
have had a number of notable wins in all the regions in which 
we operate – the UK, Continental Europe and the US. We are 
particularly excited by the opportunities we are discovering in 
North America in the education field. In January we signed a 
five year agreement with the Florida State University Board of 
Trustees to provide data analytics services to twelve universities 
in Florida. We are hopeful that we can continue to expand our 
footprint in this sector in the months ahead.
Board changes
I am delighted to welcome Roger Bullen to the Rosslyn 
family as a Director of the Company. He takes up his post 
as Chief Financial Officer on 1 October 2015. He has served with 
distinction as International Finance and Operations Director at 
Navigant and his operational experience will be extremely 
valuable to us as the business grows and develops. He replaces 
Francis Reid, who announced his departure in May. We are sorry 
to lose him and wish him well in the future. He has worked with 
Roger to establish a smooth handover. The Board would like to 
express its thanks to Francis for all his contribution to the Group’ s 
development and particularly in steering the IPO process.
Our staff
Our business would be nothing without our imaginative and 
hard-working staff. From the development team to the client 
support staff, it is an end-to-end effort. Each role is critical 
to our continued success. On behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank all of them for their outstanding efforts in the last 
year and look forward to working with them in the current year.
Outlook
I look forward with confidence to the 2015–16 financial year. 
We are seeing accelerated traction within our Direct Sales, 
with our clients investing in the benefits our innovative 
products are bringing to an extremely competitive market.
I am exceptionally pleased with the progress we have made 
within our Partnership strategy. Recent announcements 
from our Partners demonstrate the high regard major players 
within the industry hold Rosslyn and the RAPid technology 
platform. Converting these partnerships into healthy revenue 
streams is key for our growth and our future, but I am 
optimistic that these partnerships will deliver the results 
the Company and our shareholders deserve.
John O’Hara
Chairman
16 September 2015
