 12
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
The challenging market conditions that we 
saw in the first half of the year continued to 
dominate for the remainder of 2015, with 
many of our key markets and geographies 
impacted by the ongoing weakness of the oil 
price, political instability and the slowdown  
in China. We saw lower overall activity levels 
and an increased number of project deferrals 
and cancellations. We continue to see 
opportunities to gain market share by 
expanding our product portfolio, and through 
both organic development and acquisition. 
By implementing our strategy for growth and 
making careful investments we will ensure 
that Rotork is well placed to make further 
progress over the medium to long term.
The end of the year usually sees an upturn in 
revenue as customers look to complete orders 
and 2015 was no exception. However, fourth 
quarter revenue was 10.7% lower than the 
record fourth quarter of 2014, despite the 
acquisitions completed in the year, and 15.1% 
lower on an organic constant currency (OCC) 
basis. Revenue for the year was 8.1% lower than 
the previous year, which on an OCC basis was 
11.9% lower. 
Peter France
Chief Executive
RESPONDING  
  TO MARKET 
CONDITIONS
“ WE WILL CONTINUE TO INVEST  
TO ENSURE THAT ROTORK IS  
WELL PLACED TO MAKE FURTHER 
PROGRESS OVER THE MEDIUM  
TO LONG TERM.” Governance Strategic Report Directors Financial Statements Company Information
13
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Programme (CSP). In 2015, RSS 
opened new service centres in 
Glasgow and Korea, expanded its 
service provision in France and Turkey 
and improved existing facilities to 
accommodate the CSP and changes in 
service. With 402 directly-employed 
service engineers and other service 
technicians employed by our agents 
around the world (2014: 370),  
we provide the infrastructure to 
effectively support all of our 
customers’ service needs. 
Research and development (R&D)
Innovation continues to be a core part 
of our strategy as we work with our 
customers to find ways of reducing 
power consumption, increasing 
efficiency, lowering the costs of asset 
ownership and minimising carbon 
footprint. Following the acquisition  
of Bifold Group Ltd, Gary Jacobson 
was appointed as Group Innovation 
Director in October and will head the 
new Group Innovation Department. 
Gary brings a wealth of experience 
and technical knowledge of products 
and markets relevant to Rotork and I 
am delighted to have him leading our 
future development in this area. 2015 
saw the launch of a number of new 
products across the divisions and our 
spend on R&D for the year was £9.6m 
or 1.8% of revenue.
Order intake is usually less driven by 
this year end pattern but the fourth 
quarter nevertheless showed an 
improvement of 3.2% on the third 
quarter on an OCC basis or 12.8% with 
the inclusion of acquisitions. Full year 
order intake was 11.7% below 2014, or 
15.2% lower on an OCC basis. Lower 
revenue was the main driver of the 
20.3% reduction in adjusted* operating 
profit to £125.3m. Cost control and the 
accelerated cost management 
programme delivered more than the 
anticipated savings in the year but this 
was not sufficient to offset the 
reduction in revenue.
In 2015, we invested £147.6m in six 
acquisitions. Further details are 
contained in the Business Reviews  
on pages 30 to 37. In line with our 
strategy, together these businesses 
bring additional products that enhance 
Rotork’s product portfolio and 
technology, expand our geographical 
presence and give us access to new 
markets. Our focus in 2016 will be to 
continue to integrate the newly-
acquired businesses and drive the 
potential revenue synergies. We will 
also continue to look for acquisition 
opportunities as part of our  
growth strategy.
During the year we opened four new 
sales and services offices and started 
the move into the new Lucca (Italy) 
factory, which is due to be completed 
in the second quarter of 2016. We  
now have 31 manufacturing sites,  
73 national offices and 84 regional 
locations in 38 countries. In total  
we have over 850 sales channels in  
101 countries. Strengthening our global 
presence to provide local support to 
our customers remains a core part of 
our strategy.
Our markets
The long term drivers of our markets 
remain positive with population 
growth, urbanisation and automation 
continuing to drive increased demand 
for flow control products and services. 
Our customers are also increasingly 
focused on reducing power 
consumption, increasing efficiency, 
maximising cost reduction, improved 
safety and minimising their carbon 
footprints, which will drive long term 
growth in our markets. See page 6 for 
more details.
In the shorter term our markets 
continue to be impacted by various 
headwinds. In 2015, the oil and gas 
markets remained active despite  
the fall in the oil price. Oil and gas 
represented 53.3% of our revenue in 
2015, a decline of 360 basis points on 
the previous year. In the water and 
industrial markets, revenue was up on 
the previous year, with water showing 
a small increase of £1.3m and industrial 
showing a larger increase of £10.2m 
demonstrating that our strategy of 
diversifying our end markets is 
continuing to make progress. The 
slowdown in China’s economy also 
impacted our revenue for the year with 
sales in the power market declining by 
£7.3m (7.5%), with £6.5m of that total 
attributable to China. 
Rotork Site Services (RSS)
The RSS team provide service and 
support to our customers locally 
around the world through preventative 
maintenance contracts, on-site and 
workshop service, retrofit solutions 
and the tailor-made Client Support 
*   References to adjusted profit throughout this document are defined as the IFRS profit, whether operating 
profit or before tax, with £20.9m (2014: £14.9m) of amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
  Organic constant currency results are the 2015 figures restated at 2014 exchange rates and with the 
incremental contribution from acquisitions removed.
OCC 14
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
Corporate Social Responsibility 
During 2015, we continued to focus on 
how we do things at Rotork through 
our Rotork Corporate Social 
Responsibility (CSR) Committee, 
which sets the standards that are 
embedded within each of our 
businesses. Our responsibilities to our 
employees and our customers, as well 
as the communities and environment 
in which we operate, are very 
important to us. 
In 2015, we donated £100,000 to 
WaterAid and Sightsavers and  
£5,000 to Freedom Matters in 
response to the earthquake in Nepal. 
We encourage our employees to 
support their local communities, with 
local charitable causes selected by  
the local charitycommittees at each  
of our operating sites. The Group 
contributed a further £172,000 to 
support these causes bringing the 
total Group contributions in the year  
to £297,000 (2014: £295,000). 
For more information about the CSR 
Committee and the work it carries out 
see pages 48 to 59.
Our people
Rotork’s culture and values are an 
integral part of our business model 
and are embedded in the day to day 
behaviour of all employees. Our 
employees act and behave as smaller 
family units, part of the larger Rotork 
family. This is supported by Rotork 
being structured as a number of 
smaller business units, with individuals 
working collaboratively across teams 
and projects.
Rotork aims to be an employer of 
choice and is considered a great place 
to work by the majority of our 
employees. We foster an open and 
honest culture based on the 
engagement of our employees. 
Our annual employee satisfaction is 
used to improve the experience of 
working at Rotork and has helped to 
drive many changes around the Rotork 
globe. Our annual survey was 
completed by 2,350 employees, with 
the response rate being slightly down 
(71% compared to 75% last year) and 
the overall satisfaction score remaining 
the same as last year at 3.6. The global 
results showed that on average people 
are most satisfied with Rotork’s 
products and services, our approach to 
health and safety and our values and 
ethics and they are planning to stay 
with Rotork for at least another year.
Rotork had a total of 3,759 employees 
at the end of 2015, an increase of 300. 
From the various acquisitions, 389 
employees joined the Rotork family. 
Excluding the acquisitions, the total 
number of employees decreased by  
89 as a result of the cost management 
initiatives that were implemented 
during the year.
In 2015, there were two changes to our 
management team, with the retirement 
of Graham Ogden in March and  
Gary Jacobson joining the Rotork 
Management Board in October 
following his appointment as Group 
Innovation Director.
The success of Rotork is down to the 
hard work and dedication of our 
people. I would like to personally thank 
each and every one of them for 
making Rotork the world-class 
business that it is today.
Peter France
Chief Executive
29 February 2016 Governance Strategic Report Directors Financial Statements Company Information
15
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
LEADING THE WAY  
IN TOUGH APPLICATIONS
Smart positioners allow technicians to use auto-calibration and 
simple diagnostics to commission and monitor their entire system 
at the push of a button. In many cases the valve, actuator and 
smart positioner package is exposed to extreme temperatures, 
dirty conditions and other challenges such as high vibration. 
