 Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2015 05
I look forward with confidence to the 2015–16 
financial year. We are seeing the benefits from 
the investments that we have made and the 
product suite is becoming extremely 
competitive in the market.”
2014–15 was our first full year as an AIM listed company 
and we have been able to make the significant investments 
required in developing our product suite on the RAPid 
platform and increasing our sales and marketing capabilities. 
Recruitment of quality software engineers and sales people 
with the requisite knowledge and experience was a challenge 
but we added 13 highly skilled members to the team. 
Revenues increased by a healthy 37% to £2.8m in the year 
with the majority coming from our direct sales team. We are 
starting to see considerable traction through the partnership 
route we adopted last year and we have developed a number 
of new partnership agreements. Some are more advanced 
than others, and not all will develop into material revenue 
streams, but the Board believes that this diversification of 
the revenue stream is important to attaining our strategic 
targets and will enable us to reduce the cost of client 
acquisition whilst accelerating our route to market.
Our gross margin remains strong at a healthy 84.3%, up 
by 1.2% from last year, and this trend is likely to continue 
as our revenues increase. I am also confident that our 
cash position is strong enough to see us through to 
positive cash flow.
Since the year end we have signed a series of new 
contracts. Notable amongst this new business are the 
contracts with our partners, which have brought a highly 
diversified client base and provide us with excellent 
opportunities to demonstrate the value of the RAPid 
platform to our partners’ clients.
I look forward with confidence to the 2015–16 financial 
year. We are seeing the benefits from the investments 
that we have made and the product suite is becoming 
extremely competitive in the market. 
The long-term nature of our contracts means the full effect 
of our investments will be with us for years to come.
I would like to join John O’Hara in thanking our employees, 
without whom none of this would be possible.
Charlie Clark
Chief Executive Officer
16 September 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
