 10
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
In this my first year as Chairman, Rotork has 
delivered a robust set of results despite 
increasingly difficult trading conditions. 
Although we do not expect conditions to 
improve in the near term, the increasing 
diversity of our end markets and geographies, 
together with our strong market positions, 
leave us well placed to navigate the current 
turbulence, whilst continuing to put the building 
blocks in place for superior medium to long 
term growth. 
At times such as these, the fundamentals of the 
business are tested to the full. This includes the 
appropriateness and resilience of the strategy, 
the strength of our market positions, the quality 
of the management, and the cohesiveness of our 
culture and values. I have found Rotork to be in 
good shape in all these respects.
Over many years, Rotork has established clear 
leadership positions in well-defined end markets, 
based on innovative technology and excellent 
customer service, delivered by a team of highly 
motivated and experienced employees who put 
the customer at the heart of what they do. Our 
asset-light model provides considerable flexibility 
in prioritising resource according to the greatest 
need or opportunity, whilst preserving capital for 
investment in technology and innovation.
Martin Lamb 
Chairman
FOCUS ON  
MEDIUM TO 
LONG TERM 
GROWTH
“  WE ARE WELL PLACED TO NAVIGATE 
CURRENT MARKET TURBULENCE,  
WHILST CONTINUING TO FOCUS ON OUR 
STRATEGY FOR LONG TERM GROWTH.”
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Governance Strategic Report Directors Financial Statements Company Information
11
ROTORK ANNUAL REPORT 2015
Financial highlights
Order intake was 15.2% lower than  
the prior year on an organic constant 
currency (OCC) basis but the 
contributions from acquisitions, which 
were mainly completed in the second 
half of the year, offset in part by the 
0.9% currency headwind resulted in  
a reported reduction of 11.7%. 
Revenue of £546.5m was supported 
by the order book at the start of the 
year, so reduced by less than order 
intake and was 11.9% lower on an  
OCC basis and 8.1% lower on a 
reported basis. 
Adjusted* operating profit reduced 
20.3% to £125.3m. Adjusted* operating 
margins reduced by 350 basis points 
to 22.9%, impacted by lower sales 
volumes and the mix effect of newly 
acquired businesses at lower margins, 
partially offset by a £4.0m reduction  
in overheads. The reduction at gross 
margin level to 45.7% was contained  
to 230 basis points, with only a small 
increase in overall material cost 
percentage, reflecting effective control 
over material and labour costs, and 
good pricing resilience in challenging 
market conditions.
Acquisitions
Rotork had a very active year for 
acquisitions as we continued to 
implement our strategy for growth, 
and we invested £147.6m on 
acquisitions in total. This year we 
acquired Bifold Group Ltd (Bifold), 
M&M Srl, Eltav Wireless Monitoring Ltd, 
all of which sit in our Instruments 
division, and Roto Hammer Industries 
Inc. for our Gears division. We also 
acquired our agents’ businesses  
in the south of France and Turkey.  
The acquisition of Bifold for up to 
£125m in August is the largest 
acquisition completed by Rotork to 
date and provides a platform for the 
accelerated growth of the Instruments 
division, expanding our addressable 
market by a further £750m. Bifold 
performed in line with our expectations 
during the year. 
Board composition and performance
I would like to thank my fellow 
Directors for welcoming me as  
their new Chairman and for their 
considerable support in my first  
year in the role. 
The Board currently comprises three 
executive Directors, four independent 
non-executive Directors and myself as 
Chairman. Two out of the eight 
Directors are women (25%), which 
remains the same as last year.
We are announcing today that Bob 
Arnold will retire in August this year. 
Bob has been President of Rotork 
Controls Inc. since 1988 and a member 
of the Board since 2001. I would like to 
thank Bob for his contribution since 
joining Rotork in 1978 and in particular 
his significant role in supporting the 
expansion of the business throughout 
the Americas.
The annual performance review of  
the Board is scheduled to take place 
during February and March 2016, see 
page 62 of the Corporate Governance 
Report for further details.
Corporate Governance
The Board continues to be committed 
to the highest standards of governance. 
During the year, the Board and Audit 
Committee were involved in continuing 
consideration of, and work related to, 
risk appetite, and the monitoring  
and disclosure of risk following the 
revisions in 2014 to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code (the Code). 
Further details of this work and its 
outputs, our approach to governance 
and our compliance with the Code  
are contained in the Corporate 
Governance Report on pages 62 to 68.
Our employees
I would like to thank all of our employees 
for their continued high level of 
commitment and professionalism during 
this challenging year.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final 
dividend of 3.1p per share, a 0.3% 
increase over the 2014 final dividend. 
Taken with the 2015 interim dividend, 
the total dividend is 5.05p per share 
(2014: 5.01p), representing a 0.8% 
increase in the total dividend on 2014. 
The final dividend will be payable on 
16 May 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 8 April 2016.
Outlook
The challenging market conditions  
that we saw in the first half of the year 
continued for the remainder of 2015, 
with many of our key markets and 
geographies impacted by the 
weakness of the oil price, political 
instability and the slowdown in China.
 
We were encouraged by the progress 
of our accelerated cost management 
programme in 2015 and further actions 
to mitigate the effect of end market 
weakness will remain a key focus in  
the current year. We continue to see 
opportunities to gain market share by 
expanding our product portfolio and 
through both organic development 
and acquisition. By continuing to 
implement our strategy for growth  
and targeted investment we will 
ensure that Rotork is well placed to 
make further progress over the 
medium to long term.
Martin Lamb
Chairman
29 February 2016
