 FOCUS
Payment to shareholders
16.37p
Underlying EPS
58.73p
We have made some 
important changes to our 
management in 2015 and 
laid the groundwork for 
further performance 
improvements as we  
tackle some near -term 
challenges.”
Ian Davis
Chairman
Rolls-Royce is a business in transition. 
The next few years are going to be very 
important as we capitalise on our 
outstanding portfolio of products and 
services and the £76.4bn order book 
that supports them. Underpinning this 
journey will be significant changes to 
our business. Warren East, our new 
Chief Executive, will talk more about 
these in the Strategic Report.
During this period of transition we should 
not forget the core strengths of the business. 
Our products, technologies and customer 
relationships have been further strengthened 
as a result of focused investment and the 
continued hard work of our teams. The 
sustained strong growth in our order book 
shows that our customers recognise the 
value Rolls-Royce delivers.
The fundamentals of our business are 
unchanged. We are investing today, as we 
have for many years, in building a strong 
installed base of mission-critical industrial, 
marine and aerospace power systems. Our 
market share, particularly in powering large 
civil airliners, will grow significantly over the 
next ten years providing a cash generative, 
sustainable platform from which to further 
develop the business. Investing today to 
secure that future is essential.
4 Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s statement Strategic Report / Chairman’s statement engineering and manufacturing experience, 
after a long career at GKN and BAE Systems. 
Lewis Booth, a US resident and an independent 
Non-executive Director since 2011 has 
indicated his intention to relinquish his 
responsibility as Senior Independent Director 
once a successor has been appointed. He will 
continue as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Dame Helen Alexander, an independent 
Non-executive Director since 2007 , will be 
stepping down from the Board after the AGM 
in May 2016 having completed her nine-year 
term. At that time she will be succeeded as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
by Ruth Cairnie, who joined the Board in 
September 2014. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank Dame Helen for her 
dedicated service to the Company. She has 
been a wise and insightful member of the 
Board and her well-judged advice and 
leadership of our Remuneration Committee 
have been highly valued by her colleagues.
Rebuilding trust and confidence
In the first months since his appointment last 
July, Warren has made an enormous impact 
on the business with a clear, well-structured 
review. This has examined the strengths and 
weaknesses of our businesses and highlighted 
the critical investment priorities required 
to develop our competitive advantages and 
market position. I have also been pleased 
by the steps he and his team have taken 
to improve communication to our investors. 
While it is early days, I believe his approach 
has been well received and has laid good 
foundations from which we can rebuild trust 
and confidence in the business.
Looking forward
2016 will be another challenging year for 
Rolls-Royce. As Warren sets out in his review, 
we are doing a great deal within the business 
to ensure we successfully transition over the 
next few years to a more strongly profitable 
and cash-generative future. The Group is well 
positioned to grow strongly on the back of 
innovative, market-leading technology. We do 
have some near-term challenges but the 
fundamentals of the business remain strong, 
underpinned by a record order book and 
some great people across the organisation.
Ian Davis
Chairman
11 February 2016
At the same time, we are facing some 
challenges in key markets, particularly in 
Marine, and are managing a major change 
in product mix within Civil Aerospace, which 
has a direct impact on how we recognise 
revenues and profits. This meant we took the 
decision to undertake a major restructuring  
of the business. Warren’s recent review of 
operations, unanimously supported by  
the Board, highlighted a number of areas 
where, over time, costs have grown in an 
unsustainable way. This clearly needs to 
change. We have approved a plan to reduce our 
fixed cost base by £150m to £200m per annum 
and simplify the way we manage the business. 
Shareholder payments
The pace of investment required to transform 
the business creates near-term pressure 
on free cash flow. At the same time, we need 
to sustain a healthy balance sheet to ensure 
we have the financial flexibility to maintain 
a strong investment-grade credit rating. 
As a result, the Board is recommending 
that the payment to shareholders is halved 
in cash terms at the full year and the next 
half year. We recognise the importance 
of a healthy ‘dividend’ to our shareholders. 
Subject to short-term cash needs, we intend to 
review the payment so that it will be rebuilt 
over time to an appropriate level. This reflects 
the Board’s long-standing confidence in the 
strong future cash generation of the business.
As a result, the proposed final payment 
for 2015 is 7 .1p per share, 50% of the final 
payment made for full year 2014. It is further 
proposed that the interim payment for 2016 
will also be reduced to 50% of the prior year.
Corporate governance
2015 has proven to be a strong test of our 
governance processes and, while we will 
In summary…
Fundamental strengths 
of the business unchanged
Continue to invest in market-
leading products, technologies 
and customer services
Lay stronger foundations to rebuild 
trust and confidence in a world-
class engineering business
take away several important learnings from 
different events, I have been impressed by  
how your Board and senior management at 
Rolls-Royce have performed at a difficult time. 
This has not been an easy year for the 
Company, its employees, investors or other 
stakeholders. We have had to communicate 
some challenging messages both internally 
and externally about our market outlook, 
our performance and, very importantly, the 
essential changes we will be making to cut 
waste and restore confidence in the business.
We have not taken our eye off some of the 
historic issues that have undermined confidence 
in the business in the past. Concerns about 
bribery and corruption involving intermediaries 
in overseas markets remain subject to 
examination by the Serious Fraud Office and 
other authorities and these investigations 
are not yet complete. We have done much to 
address the root of these problems and this 
work is being continually reinforced to ensure 
we all meet the high standards expected of us.
Board developments
During the year there have been a number of 
important changes to the Board. On 22 April 
we announced that John Rishton had decided 
to retire as Chief Executive on 2 July, to be 
succeeded by Warren East. At the AGM on  
8 May James Guyette, President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Rolls-Royce North 
America, retired and stepped down from the 
Board. John Neill also stood down at the AGM 
after six years as a Non-executive Director. 
Irene Dorner, formerly CEO and President  
of HSBC USA, joined the Board in July.  
Alan Davies, Chief Executive of Rio Tinto’s 
Diamonds and Minerals division, and Sir Kevin 
Smith, the former Chief Executive of GKN, the 
multinational automotive and aerospace 
business, both joined the Board from 
1 November. In February 2016, Sir Kevin 
assumed Chairmanship of the Science & 
Technology Committee. 
Irene brings a wealth of international expertise, 
particularly in risk management and 
operational performance. Alan, as well 
as having a strong financial background, 
brings relevant experience in transforming 
operational performance and driving cultural 
change through a complex global organisation, 
together with a deep knowledge of China and 
other key emerging markets. Sir Kevin also 
brings recent Asian experience together with 
significant aerospace industry knowledge, with 
   Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 5
Strategic Report 
Chairman’s statement
