 Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2015
Overview
02
At a glance
2. RAPid then transforms and enriches this data providing the user with tools to build charts,  
tables and apps in order to visualise the information.
The Group’s founding management team has spent 
over five years developing and commercialising the 
Group’s data discovery platform, RAPid.
BI Apps Visualize Integrate Discover Enrich Analyze Cleanse
About RAPid
Big data benefits
We enable organisations of all sizes 
to easily access and turn complex 
data into meaningful information 
to support smarter decisions.
3. This is all performed over a secure cloud internet connection, giving access  
to the data from wherever you are.
1. RAPid extracts, combines and synchronises data from hundreds of sources.
Accelerate time to value from 
months to days by automating 
manual data processes
Empower business users to improve 
the quality and relevancy of data 
in real time
Accelerate the development, 
testing and deployment of big 
data analytical applications
Generate a faster  
return-on-investment on your 
existing big data assets
Reduce IT infrastructure costs 
and improve agility by taking 
big data projects into the cloud
Quickly integrate semi-structured 
and unstructured data without the 
need to code
Embracing the intelligent concept of 
“Fail fast, succeed faster,” Rosslyn Analytics’ 
award-winning RAPid Cloud Data Platform 
empowers you to: Rosslyn Data Technologies plc Annual report and accounts 2015 03
As data analysis becomes more mainstream, 
the Directors believe that every business that wishes 
to pursue data-driven decisions, at scale, will need 
to develop cost-effective analytical capabilities 
and processes.
According to the MarketsandMarkets study in 2013 more 
than 13% of companies have cloud analytics and Business 
Intelligence (BI) solutions and this is expected to reach 
50% by 2018. The cloud BI market is growing rapidly as 
compared to traditional on-premise BI solutions driven 
by significant growth in the amount of internal 
and external data.
These solutions are more flexible than traditional IT 
systems, reducing deployment time, requiring less storage 
space and having a high processing capacity. Both small 
and large enterprises are major adopters of cloud analytics 
services and the Directors expect this trend to continue 
for the next few years.
The overall cloud analytics market stands with a total 
revenue of $7.5bn in 2015, and is expected to grow to 
$23.1bn at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) 
of 25.1% from 2015 to 2020.
The growth in data is well documented with the majority 
of industry analysts pointing towards exponential growth 
in consumer, M2M, mobile and enterprise data while industry 
players are basing their business models on 5–10x growth 
in volume of data over the next five years.
The Directors believe that the enterprise user base is 
increasingly recognising the return on investment from 
analysing their data.
IDC estimates that around a third of data by 2020 will 
be ‘‘useful data if tagged and analysed’’ . This equates to 
approximately 13,000 exabytes compared with total big 
data today of approximately 5,000 exabytes.
13%
13% of companies who are utilising cloud analytics
This figure is expected to grow to 50% by 2018.
$7.5bn
Cloud analytics market revenue
This figure is expected to grow to $23.1bn at a compound annual 
growth rate of 25.1% from 2015 to 2020.
1/3
The amount of useful data by 2020
This equates to approximately 13,000 exabytes compared to today 
with approximately 5,000 exabytes.
Our markets
Our technology
RAPid is built to accommodate data in all shapes and sizes, to support any analytics project.
Relational Database
Rosslyn Analytics has developed an advanced, highly optimized relational database built 
on Microsoft SQL Server that provides unrivalled performance and scalability for the largest 
and most demanding analytic workloads.
Data Storage Technologies
RAPid features cutting-edge NoSQL technologies such as Redis, Hadoop, MongoDB 
and ElasticSearch to power the staging, enrichment and caching of high volumes of data.
Infrastructure-as-a-Service Cloud Solutions
RAPid provides organisations with an Infrastructure-as–a-Service running on Azure, enabling 
clients to host applications on the platform.
