 03 SafeCharge International Group Limited     Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Financial Statements Strategic Report Corporate Governance
Introduction
In	a	year	of	continued	progress	and	financial	
success for the Group it is clear that our new 
and innovative products and services are 
creating	significant	opportunities.		
Throughout 2015, SafeCharge continued to 
win new customers, closing the period with 
an extremely strong pipeline that features 
significant	–	and	well-known	–	businesses	
which are set to join the Company’s platform 
in 2016. Recent client wins are due primarily 
to our proprietary technologies, reinforcing 
the validity of our strategy to focus on 
research and development; and adapting  
the platform to suit the individual needs of 
the sectors we serve.
We have continued to invest in our core 
technologies, expand the Group’s product 
offering	and	diversify	the	business	into	new	
markets and industries. In 2015 we 
completed	a	number	of	highly	significant	
business developments, which will create 
new platforms for growth, including the 
successful launch of SafeCharge’s own 
acquiring facilities; and the innovative 
PAY.com MasterCard prepaid, which together 
with our existing payment products, enables 
SafeCharge	to	offer	a	unique	converged	
payments ecosystem.
Strategy
The Group has a clear organic growth 
strategy, aiming to diversify the products and 
services	offered	to	its	clients,	thereby	seeking	
to grow revenues from existing customers, 
whilst looking to further expand by entering 
attractive new verticals, such as online 
games, travel and retail.  
In parallel to our organic growth strategy,  
we are constantly looking for potential 
acquisitions with the capacity to facilitate  
and accelerate our access to new markets, 
clients and territories – whilst continuing to 
apply strict criteria to such opportunities  
in the interests of creating a sustainable 
business delivering high quality returns  
to shareholders.
The	Group	made	significant	progress	with	
many aspects of its strategy during 2015;  
and	we	are	delighted	to	see	the	benefits	 
of	these	starting	to	flow	through,	with	further	
upside set to be enjoyed in 2016 and beyond.
Growth and performance
The Group’s continued momentum through 
2015 enabled it to achieve strong growth  
in revenues of 30% to US$99.8 million 
(2014:	US$76.9	million),	with	Adjusted	
EBITDA* improving 26% to US$31.1 million 
(2014:	US$24.7	million).
SafeCharge remained highly cash generative 
with	US$29.3	million	of	free	cash	flow	 
from	operating	activities	(before	tax)	in	 
the	period	(2014:	US$20.8	million);	and	a	
cash	conversion	of	94.0%,	(2014:	84.3%)	 
from	adjusted	EBITDA.	Despite	significant	
investments; acquisitions; technology 
development expenditure; and payment of 
the	final	2014	and	interim	2015	dividends,	the	
Group closed the period with US$114.9 million 
of	cash,	US$18.6	million	classified	as	
available-for-sale investments; US$1.4 million 
assets	classified	as	held	for	sale,	and	no	debt.
As a result of the acquisitions completed  
in 2015, the Group increased headcount, 
particularly	of	technology	staff	and	grew	 
its operational capabilities, extending its 
knowledge base. This increased headcount 
has enabled SafeCharge to manage its 
growth and continue to develop its 
technology platforms.
Chief Executive’s Review
“ The year of 2015 was another period of strong 
financial performance and continued growth.  
We have continued to innovate, develop and  
deliver our payment products and technologies, 
enabling us to deepen our relationships and win 
new business with large scale customers. With 
continued strong momentum and an excellent 
pipeline of new business, we look forward to the  
rest of the year with confidence and optimism.”
David Avgi
Chief Executive Officer 04 SafeCharge International Group Limited     Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Core processing business performance
SafeCharge’s processing business provides 
its customers with a wide range of payment 
and fraud prevention services; PCI descoping 
solutions; and a network of more than 100 
payment methods and acquiring banks 
through a single customer integration. The 
Group’s core processing business enjoyed 
strong growth compared to 2014, with stable 
gross	profit	margins	and	Adjusted	EBITDA*	
up 27.3% to US$31.4 million.
As evidence of the Company’s strong service 
offering	and	technological	robustness,	
SafeCharge continued to enjoy a high 
customer retention rate whilst adding new 
customers in the period. The Group’s 
technology platform remained highly scalable 
and reliable with uptime in excess of 99.99% 
throughout the period.
Performance of acquisitions
The acquisitions of CreditGuard and 3V 
Transaction	Services	(renamed	SafeCharge	
Card Services) completed in January 2015. 
During the period CreditGuard performed 
in-line with management’s expectations. PAY.
com MasterCard prepaid has been launched 
and restructuring of 3V Transaction Services 
is nearing completion. I am delighted to 
report that both are now integrated with the 
core processing platform. We are excited by 
the opportunities that both SafeCharge Card 
Services and CreditGuard are creating 
through	the	synergies	and	benefits	they	
bring to the Group.
Expansion into new sectors 
and geographies
Our investment activities have made sectorial 
and	geographical	diversification	a	possibility	
and have been accelerated following the 
acquisition of CreditGuard, with the core 
SafeCharge	business	benefiting	from	
CreditGuard’s	relationships,	winning	its	first	
clients in new territories and industry sectors, 
including retail; travel and passenger aviation.
SafeCharge continues to invest in the global 
expansion of its acquirers and its alternative 
payment method network in Asia, Europe 
and North America.
Expansion across the payments 
ecosystem and value chain
As reported in our interim results, the Group 
is fully able to undertake acquiring through 
the MasterCard and VISA schemes; and I am 
delighted with the performance to date as 
we prepare to accelerate the growth through 
our own acquiring platform.
The	year	also	brought	the	first	live	
transactions	flowing	through	PAY.com,	our	
own brand and digital account with the 
product launched in early 2016.
By using our core gateway and linking the 
Group’s acquiring and issuing platforms, 
SafeCharge	can	now	offer	its	customers	a	
greater	range	of	efficient	solutions.
I am also excited to report that in late 2015 
our development team took another 
important	step	by	developing	our	first	
physical point-of-sale product. 
This product, which has since gained 
accreditation, complements our “online” 
product suite and will enable SafeCharge to 
offer	an	integrated	multi-channel	solution	to	
merchants	with	both	on	and	off-line	 
payment activities.
New client wins
In 2015, we won strategic clients as a result 
of our advanced products and technology.  
Our full suite payment platform has been 
selected by the Rank Group, EL AL and other 
significant	operators.	PaddyPower	Betfair	
recently selected our Cashier for its global 
alternative payments methods, with launch 
expected	in	H1	2016.	Our	efforts	to	increase	
our presence in the retail market were fruitful 
and I am pleased that we have been selected 
to	provide	full	acquiring	services	in	specific	
jurisdictions to Nayax, a global provider of 
cashless payments.
 
Games developers represent a growth 
segment for the Group and during the year 
we	added	Netmarble,	GGCorp,	ProficientCity,	
who are all using our Cashier as their global 
checkout	platform	and	benefiting	from	our	
diverse global payments solutions and fraud 
prevention expertise.
Industry awards
The	strengths	and	benefits	of	the	Group’s	
technologies and services continue to be 
recognised by the wider industry, with 
SafeCharge winning a number of prestigious 
awards, including the “Innovation in 
Payments” and “Overall Payments Company” 
categories of the eGaming Review awards. 
David Avgi
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2016
Chief Executive’s Review continued
