 02 SafeCharge International Group Limited     Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
I am delighted to report that 2015 – 
SafeCharge’s	first	full	year	as	a	public	
company – marked a further period of strong 
performance and growth for the Group. 
Consolidated revenues grew 29.7% to 
US$99.8 million and Adjusted EBITDA* 
increased 26.1% to US$31.1 million, with the 
Group	continuing	to	generate	significant	 
free	cash	flows	from	its	operations.	
SafeCharge’s impressive performance was 
primarily driven by its core business, which 
benefited	from	the	growth	of	existing	
customers and new customer wins.  
Core	revenues	(excluding	2015	acquisitions)	
grew by 20.4% with Adjusted EBITDA* 
growing by 27.3%.
In	addition	to	a	robust	financial	performance,	
we remain committed to advancing our 
technologies and expanding the Group’s 
product	offering,	thereby	strengthening	
engagement with customers whilst growing 
and diversifying the business into new 
markets and industries.
The Board continues to focus on making 
effective	use	of	the	Group’s	cash	resources	
and investigate potentially large strategic and 
complementary acquisition opportunities, 
whilst continuing to apply strict criteria when 
assessing such acquisition opportunities.
Board and governance
The Board remains committed to ensuring a 
robust governance structure is in place and, 
whilst recognising the size of the Company,  
is working to comply with corporate best 
practice. In December 2015 we announced 
the strengthening of the Board with the 
appointment of Yuval Ziv as Group COO, 
recognising the importance of the role within 
our growing business. Yuval brings with him 
considerable experience from within both  
the payments industry and the  
SafeCharge Group.
In October 2015 the Company completed its 
re-domicile from the British Virgin Islands to 
Guernsey which the Board believes will 
provide	a	number	of	benefits,	including	
expanding access to the Company’s equity to 
a wider constituency of investors.
I thank the Directors for their continued 
contribution to the Group throughout what 
was a highly successful year and congratulate 
David Avgi, his senior management team  
and all employees for their dedication and 
hard work.
Dividends
The Company’s stated dividend policy is to 
pay-out at least 50% of Adjusted EBITDA. 
Given the Group’s strong underlying growth in 
earnings and cash generation, the Board has 
recommended	a	final	dividend	of	7.30	US$	
cents per share, giving a total dividend of 
11.30 US$ cents per share for the year  
(2014:	8.16	US$	cents),	representing	55%	of	
Adjusted EBITDA* for the period.
The dividend shall be paid in sterling and 
therefore it will be subject to a conversion 
exchange rate from US dollars based on a 
GBP/USD rate of 1.42, being the rate at 
4.30pm on 9 March 2016. As a result,  
those shareholders entitled to the dividend 
will receive 5.14 pence per share. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual General 
Meeting,	to	be	held	on	18	May	2016,	the	final	
dividend will become payable on 27 May 2016 
to those shareholders on the Company’s 
register as at the record date of 20 May 2016. 
The ex-dividend date is 19 May 2016.
Outlook
Having achieved another exciting year of 
growth and operational development, the 
Group has maintained momentum into 2016 
such that we look to the future with 
confidence	and	optimism.	
 
Roger Withers
Chairman
10 March 2016
“SafeCharge’s impressive performance was primarily 
driven by its core business, which benefited from the 
growth of existing customers and new customer wins.  
Core revenues (excluding 2015 acquisitions) grew by 
20.4% with Adjusted EBITDA* growing by 27.3%.”
Roger Withers
Chairman
*	 Adjusted	EBITDA	is	a	non-GAAP,	company-specific	measure	which	is	earnings	excluding	interest,	taxes,	depreciation,	amortisation,	costs	incurred	in	respect	of	
the	Company’s	Initial	Public	Offering,	acquisition	costs	and	contingent	remuneration,	restructuring	costs	and	share-based	payments	charge	(see	Consolidated	
Statement of Comprehensive Income).
