 Executive Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholders,
This is a strong first set of full year results for Saga as a listed 
company. We have achieved much while setting out our 
long-term strategy for the business. Importantly we have  
also delivered growth and performed ahead of market 
expectations for this year. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our customers, 
who are at the heart of everything we do at Saga. We record 
exceptional customer satisfaction scores because we listen to 
our customers, take time to understand their unique needs 
and deliver products and high standards of service that meet 
their expectations. 
Saga standards of customer service are delivered on a day to 
day basis by our employees and I would like to thank them for 
all of their hard work. From the excellent people in our UK call 
centres to the popular teams on our cruise ships, it is our 
employees that work tirelessly to maintain and protect our 
trusted brand and deliver the Saga experience to our customers. 
Many customers have been with Saga for a long time and 
have multiple products from us. We do not underestimate our 
responsibility to ensure that every experience they have with 
Saga is exceptional. As we look to expand into new areas,  
we will continue to be led by customer insights.
I would also like to welcome those who have become 
shareholders in the Group during the year. Over 200,000 retail 
shareholders elected to become owners of the business 
during the IPO. I am pleased that the feedback I have been 
receiving from you is that you share my view of the significant 
long-term opportunity that Saga represents. We have also 
been delighted to welcome new institutional shareholders  
to Saga both through the IPO and through the subsequent 
placing, resulting in a high-quality and balanced shareholder 
base with which to take the business forward.
I would like to extend my personal thanks to Lance Batchelor, 
who took over as Group Chief Executive Officer in the early 
part of this financial year. Lance came to Saga with an 
exceptional track record in growing customer-centric 
businesses and we are already seeing the benefits of that 
experience. At the start of 2015, Lance outlined the Group’s 
strategy. The Board believes that this strategy provides a clear 
plan for growth through clarity about what Saga is and where 
it plays best, focusing on our core businesses and a 
commitment to innovation. 
I would also like to thank Stuart Howard, our Group Chief 
Financial Officer, who will retire later this year. Stuart and 
I have worked together for 15 years growing Saga into the 
business it is today, and his loyalty and insights have been 
invaluable to the Group. In wishing Stuart well I would also  
like to formally welcome his successor, Jonathan Hill, who 
started with us earlier this month and will now work with 
Stuart to ensure an orderly handover during 2015. 
The Board believes that Saga is well positioned to deliver 
long-term sustainable returns for our shareholders by 
delivering consistent profitable growth with a capital efficient 
model, leading to exceptional cash generation on an ongoing 
basis. As a result of this, I am delighted to be able to 
announce in our first year as a listed company that we are 
recommending a dividend of 4.1p per share. This dividend is 
pro rata for the proportion of the financial year post IPO and 
equates to 6.0p per share on an annualised basis. The final 
dividend will be paid on 30 June 2015, subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM, to shareholders on the register on the 
Record Date of 5 June 2015. 
This dividend is at the top end of the forecast range we 
outlined at the time of the IPO and, in combination with  
the bonus share scheme, will mean an investment return of 
over 8%* this year for all eligible retail investors. Additionally, 
we have announced that the top end of the target dividend 
range has increased from 50% to 60% of net income.
Andrew Goodsell
Executive Chairman 
29 April 2015
Delighted to beat market 
expectations in our first year 
as a listed company.
*  Based on the IPO issue price of 
185p per share and the annualised 
dividend of 6.0p per share.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
06 Why invest?
Strong repeatable business model 
We focus on understanding customer needs and  
developing the best products and services to meet them. 
This approach has meant we’ve consistently grown our 
business over the last 60 years. We aim to still be the best  
at what we do in another 60 years. 
Go to page 13 for more information
Consistent financial delivery and cash generation 
Trading EBITDA has increased year on year for the last  
four years. We turned more than 70% of our EBITDA into 
cash last year, giving us the flexibility to balance investment 
in value enhancing growth, repaying debt and returning 
cash to shareholders. 
 
Go to page 39 for more information
Growth potential in our target market and  
a great brand 
The over 50s demographic holds 68% of the UK’s wealth 
and accounts for about half of all household expenditure. 
Most importantly it is a growing group. In total there will  
be 30% more over 50s in 20 years than there are today.  
One of the most important sectors of this demographic  
for Saga – the over 75s – is due to grow by 73% in the  
next 20 years. Add to this Saga’s brand awareness of  
over 96% and the growth potential for the business 
becomes even more compelling.
Go to pages 11-12 for more information
Opportunities for growth in our core businesses  
and a commitment to innovation 
With only 8.5% market share in the over 50s UK motor  
and 6.8% in the over 50s UK home insurance markets –  
the largest parts of the Saga business – significant potential 
exists in our core businesses. We combine this commitment 
to expanding the core businesses with a relentless focus  
on new sectors where we can differentiate our offer, create  
a market or disrupt the current one. 
 
Go to pages 14-17 for more information
Andrew Goodsell Executive Chairman Governance highlights
 – It was important for an enhanced governance  
structure to be established in our first year  
as a listed Group, so that we had a framework  
of effective control. 
 – The Board continues to maintain a dialogue  
with key investors and will make itself available  
to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. 
The governance process will continue to  
evolve as the Group takes shape, and to take 
account of future changes in regulation and  
best practice.
Go to page 54 for more information  
on our governance
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
07
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview
