 Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
Strategic Review
The outcome was the refreshing of our corporate strategy,  
as outlined at our Capital Markets Day in January.
Put simply, the new strategy, which defines our direction for 
many years to come, is centred on releasing the growth 
potential in our core businesses of Motor and Home 
Insurance, Private Medical and Travel Insurance, as well as 
Saga’s respected Travel brands. The growth will come from 
truly understanding the needs of the UK’s over 50s better 
than anyone else, and designing unique and better services 
for them. This is something that Saga has done successfully 
for six decades, using our proprietary database of over 
10 million names. 
In addition we have some interesting growth opportunities  
in both wealth management and private home healthcare. 
These are new areas for Saga and will take a few years to 
reach scale, but they have great potential.
Our focus is now very much on bringing the strategy to life. 
That process is still work in progress, and we have set 
ourselves some challenging targets.
As always, our unrelenting focus remains on ensuring our 
customers receive a high-quality Saga product, developed by 
us to meet their specific needs and delivered with market-
leading standards of service.
Overview
I am pleased to report on what has been a momentous year 
for Saga, our first as a listed company and a year in which we 
were delighted to welcome many of our loyal customers as 
new shareholders in the Company. 
We have grown Group Trading EBITDA from continuing 
operations by 6.0% to £227.4m, like-for-like profit before tax 
by 9.6% to £195.5m and generated £170.9m of available 
operating cash flow. This has allowed us to reduce our level of 
net debt to 2.5x EBITDA ahead of schedule and make the 
recommendation that our first dividend be at the top end of 
the forecast range we announced on IPO.
When I joined the business last March, I was immediately 
involved in the IPO, which provided the opportunity to reassess 
the business and our plans for growth and I spent the following 
months really getting to know Saga, our customers, staff and 
products. The strategy review focused on four main areas, 
allowing us to reach absolute clarity on: 
 – the Saga business model: what we do well, what we should 
be doing better and how we ensure that customer insight 
and customer focus remain at the heart of the business
 – where our model works best: where we can operate most 
effectively, where our customers want us to operate and 
where we should be operating
 – where the businesses’ earnings come from
 – what we are going to do to drive consistent growth for  
our shareholders. 
A clear business model, exceptional 
product offering and the right strategy for 
growth at the centre of Saga’s business.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
08 Lance Batchelor Group Chief Executive Officer
Strategic priorities
We will work to capitalise on the high-quality growth opportunity I have outlined by doing more of what we do best:
1. Expanding our insurance footprint: insurance is the 
most significant part of the Saga Group and an excellent 
operation. However, we still have a relatively small share 
of the over 50s market in the UK and we can expand 
our footprint by providing insurance products, sourced 
through a panel of suppliers. 
2. Doing more to grow our Travel business: Travel is a  
core part of Saga and central to the spirit of the brand. 
However, it is currently relatively small in profit terms  
and there is significant potential to grow this business. 
3. Continuing to expand our high-quality but small Personal 
Finance offering, for example through our new wealth 
management joint venture, Saga Investment Services. 
4. Continuing to optimise the use of our database: it is  
an exceptionally valuable tool and has been used  
very effectively to help build the business we have  
today. However, we can do more with it. Increased 
segmentation, digital marketing and distribution will be  
an ever more important part of our activities to ensure  
we are providing our customers with the right products  
at the right time.
5. Putting innovation at the centre of the business:  
allowing us to develop products and services based  
on customer insight in areas where our model can 
operate effectively, such as Legal Services and private 
home healthcare.
Go to pages 14-17 for more information on 
our strategy
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
09
Additional information Financial statements Governance Performance Strategy Overview Group Chief Executive Officer’s 
Strategic Review
continued
The most important factor in ensuring all of this is delivered 
effectively is the quality of our people. Throughout the 
business our team is committed to making Saga the best 
business it can be by focusing on the customer experience. 
I would like to thank them for all their hard work. 
I would also like to highlight some changes that have been 
made within the senior team. 
As announced at our Interim Results, Stuart Howard has 
decided to retire after 15 years as Group Chief Financial 
Officer. Jonathan Hill joined on 7 April 2015 as Group CFO 
Designate. Jonathan was previously Group Finance Director 
and a member of the plc board of Bovis Homes Group plc. 
Prior to that, he held various senior roles within TUI Travel 
and Centrica. 
David Slater is moving from the role of CEO of AICL to that  
of Non-Executive Director on the AICL Board. Subject to 
regulatory approval, Andrew Button will be promoted to  
the role of CEO of AICL. Andrew has been with Saga for  
14 years, during which time he established and created the 
AICL actuarial function, which is market-leading and a key 
part of one of the strongest and most respected underwriting 
businesses in the UK. I would like to thank David for his 
tremendous contribution over seven years and I am delighted 
that the business will continue to benefit from his knowledge 
and expertise.
Karen Caddick will join Saga as Group HR Director at the  
end of May 2015. Karen was previously Group HR Director  
of Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc. She has also held 
Group HR Director positions at Morrisons plc, Punch Taverns  
& Spirit Group plc and The Financial Times.
Conclusion
It has been an exciting and challenging first year as Group 
CEO during which we completed our long-held ambition to 
become a public company.
We have developed and started to implement a clear strategy, 
built on understanding our customers better than anyone else, 
delivering products and services with exceptional customer 
service, unlocking long-term sustainable growth through our 
core business and looking for opportunities to provide new 
products and services to our customers in areas where our 
model can operate effectively. 
This strategy maintains our focus on a capital efficient, cash 
generative model. Going forward, we will therefore continue  
to seek to maximise returns for investors by optimising the 
balance between investment in value enhancing growth, 
payment of dividends and debt reduction. 
Looking ahead, our refreshed strategy provides us with  
a clear plan for delivering on our Trading EBITDA growth 
target of 5% to 7%. The team throughout the business has 
risen to the challenges I have set them and there is a renewed 
sense of energy and opportunity to drive our business 
forward. I am excited by the growth that we are already 
starting to see in our core businesses and by some of the 
tangible results we are seeing from our product innovation.
Once again, I would like to thank our customers, shareholders 
and employees; Saga is a truly special and unique business 
and one it is a privilege to lead. I look forward to keeping you 
all updated on our progress.
Lance Batchelor
Group Chief Executive Officer 
29 April 2015
Wealth management case study
In January 2015 we announced the launch of Saga 
Investment Services, a joint venture with Tilney Bestinvest 
(‘TBI’). This joint venture draws upon TBI’s investment 
expertise and our insight about the needs of the nation’s 
over 50s, to deliver a compelling wealth and investment 
proposition for Saga’s customers. It will take the best 
resources from both companies and target the 10.8 million 
customers on our database, over 800,000 of whom applied 
for shares in the Saga IPO, and that we know have an 
increased need for financial services advice from a fair 
and trusted source. 
TBI has a proven track record and over £9bn of client funds 
under management. As we developed our partnership it 
became clear that they are as dedicated as we are to 
meeting customer needs, and like us they believe that the 
market is due some real innovation. The chemistry is good 
between us. TBI is an ideal partner for Saga as it offers the 
full spectrum of wealth management services from light 
touch, online, through guidance and through simple advice, 
and all the way through to tailored 1-1 advice for wealthier 
and more financially sophisticated customers. 
We believe there is real opportunity here and that the 
pension reforms, which we lobbied hard for on behalf of 
our customers, will mean that, from April 2015, very large 
sums of savings will be looking for a home, and many 
Saga customers will be looking for guidance. 
The part of the market we will be targeting is the ‘mass 
affluent’ – those with between £30,000 and £250,000 
to invest who generally do not have access to a financial 
adviser and who need a trusted provider to navigate 
a complicated field. 
We are working hard with TBI to deliver truly ‘Saga’ products 
for our customers. We both believe there is a real chance 
to shake up the market, to offer high-quality wealth 
management services at a fair and transparent price. 
The key KPIs for this new joint venture will be funds under 
management, and customer satisfaction. We are going  
to take our time, get the proposition right, and we plan  
to launch in late 2015.
Saga plc
Annual report and accounts  
for the year ending 31 January 2015
10
