 24627.04 - 16 December 2015 5:06 PM - Pass for press
Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
Our Business 06
Group Chief Executive’s business review
Ian Newcombe
Group Chief Executive
Sanderson has 
maintained a strong 
balance sheet, a 
robust business model 
built upon long-term 
relationships with 
customers and is  
well-positioned in its 
target markets
Sanderson provides a comprehensive and 
constantly developing range of modern 
software solutions together with associated 
services to businesses in the multi-
channel retail and manufacturing markets.  
The Group’s business model has been 
developed whereby solutions primarily 
comprising Sanderson proprietary 
software are marketed, sold under 
licence, delivered, supported and serviced 
by expert Sanderson staff. The Group 
has delivered a consistent and reliable 
quality of service which has ensured the 
development of long-term relationships 
with customers.  
The Group’s solutions are developed and 
marketed to provide customers with ‘value 
for money’ IT systems which offer tangible 
business benefits and a timely return on 
investment. The primary target market 
for Sanderson comprises generally small 
and medium sized businesses. Sanderson 
solutions typically enable customers to 
increase sales and revenue whilst also 
achieving additional efficiencies by making 
and maintaining cost savings, often within 
twelve months of implementation.  
The Group has continued to invest in both 
the development of software products 
and services, as well as in sales and 
marketing. Particular emphasis has 
been placed on the Group businesses 
specialising in the development of mobile 
commerce solutions and food and 
drink processing solutions. The mobile 
commerce products, together with in-store 
technology developments, are collectively 
referred to as digital retail solutions 
which enable retailers to capitalise on 
the huge growth in the widespread 
adoption of smartphones and tablets and 
to exploit mobile as a sales channel. Full 
integration with existing business systems 
minimises duplication of data handling 
and significantly improves the return 
on investment achieved by customers 
adopting this technology. 
At the core of the Group’s well-developed 
business model is Sanderson software 
with on-premise and cloud-based 
licences, together with Sanderson 
services, provided to customers on an 
ongoing annual contractual basis. This 
recurring revenue stream is augmented 
by consultancy, support and maintenance 
services. In the year ended 30 September 
2015, pre-contracted revenues were 
£9.77 million representing 51% of total 
revenues (2014: £8.76 million). The gross 
margin from recurring revenues covered 
67% of total Group overheads in the year 
(2014: 71%).
Reflecting prior and continuing investment 
in the Group’s sales and marketing 
capacity and capability, Sanderson 
achieved an improved intake of sales 
orders in the year of £10.03 million 
(2014: £8.71 million), with 21 new 
customers being gained (2014: 17).
Acquisition
On 5 December 2014, the Group acquired 
a supplier of specialist warehouse 
management solutions, Proteus Software 
Limited, for an initial cash consideration of 
£1.40 million. Up to a further £0.5 million 
is payable in March 2016, based upon 
the trading performance of Proteus in 
the twelve months following acquisition.  
Proteus solutions, which complement 
the Group’s own products, services and 
customers, are used by businesses 
operating in the areas of third party 
logistics, warehouse management and 
supply chain distribution. The Proteus 
business has been positioned within the 
Group’s multi-channel business and its 
results are reported within this division.
Sanderson AR2015 Pass for Press - Strategic.indd   6 16/12/2015   17:08:14 24627.04 - 16 December 2015 5:06 PM - Pass for press
07 Stock code: SND www.sanderson.com
Our Business
Management expects 
to focus further efforts 
on delivering growth 
especially in the 
newly emerging digital 
retail market, where 
the Group’s One iota 
business has a growing 
presence
Review of multi-channel retail
Sanderson provides comprehensive IT 
solutions to businesses operating in the 
ecommerce, mobile commerce, retail, 
distribution, wholesale and logistics 
sectors of the UK. Mobile enablement 
and deployment continues to be a 
key business driver in this sector with 
increasing levels of business activity.
Well-positioned in this active sector, 
One iota Limited has grown revenue by 
in excess of 70% during the year. The 
wholesale distribution and cash and carry 
market has been a slower area of business 
during the year but prospects for the 
coming year have improved, driven by 
the latest enhanced version of software.  
Proteus has made a steady start as part of 
Sanderson and contributed £1.88 million 
of revenue and £58,000 of profit. The 
addition of Proteus has helped to further 
expand the Group’s presence in the areas 
of warehousing, logistics and supply 
chain. A number of internal ‘joint’ sales 
opportunities are being developed. 
The deployment and use of mobile 
technologies is continuing to grow with 
market demand accelerating. In the 
coming year, management expects to 
focus further efforts on delivering growth 
across the Group’s businesses but 
especially from the newly emerging digital 
retail market, where the Group’s One iota 
business has a growing presence.
Ten new customers were gained during 
the year, including Anzac Wines & Spirits, 
Dunsters Farm, Superdry and Matthew 
Algie (2014: ten new customers). The 
multi-channel retail division has continued 
to gain a number of large orders from 
existing customers who generally invest 
in and deploy the latest technologies to 
attract new customers and to maximise 
sales.
Divisional revenue rose by 31% to 
£12.71 million (2014: £9.68 million) 
and operating profit rose by 39% to 
£2.62 million (2014: £1.89 million).  
The year-end order book continued 
to be strong at £1.45 million 
(2014: £1.48 million) and with good 
sales prospects, the multi-channel retail 
business is well-positioned to achieve its 
increased trading targets for the current 
financial year ending 30 September 2016.
Review of manufacturing
Businesses in the food and drink 
processing sectors and engineering, 
plastics, aerospace, electronics, print 
(‘general manufacturing’), represent the 
main areas of specialisation for Sanderson 
in manufacturing markets. The overall 
divisional trading performance was lower 
than expected and this contrasted with 
the strong trading performance of the prior 
year.  
Sanderson continues to invest in product 
development and in its sales and 
marketing capability with a focus on the 
food and drink business. Traceability of 
products and ingredients through the 
food manufacturing and supply chain is 
a strong feature of the Sanderson food 
and drink solution — a key requirement 
for businesses operating in the food and 
drink industry. The Group business which 
focuses on customers operating in this 
food and drink market sector experienced 
some delay in the receipt of expected 
sales orders and delivered a lower level of 
profitability as a result. However, one large 
order with a value in excess of £400,000 
was gained just after the year-end and 
the outlook for the current year to 30 
September 2016, is much improved. 
The Sanderson business which addresses 
the general manufacturing market 
improved its trading performance and 
this improvement is expected to continue 
into the current year. The introduction of 
the new UnityExpress ‘ERP’ (‘Enterprise 
Resource Planning’) product aimed at new 
and emerging manufacturing businesses 
has proved successful and three new 
customers were gained in the year, albeit at 
an average contract value of in the region of 
£35,000, compared with the average value 
experienced by the remainder of the Group 
of nearer £75,000 across the 21 new 
customer contracts signed in the year. It is 
expected that UnityExpress will augment 
the Unity solution, which is targeted at 
larger businesses.
One iota has grown revenue by in excess of 70% during the year
Sanderson AR2015 Pass for Press - Strategic.indd   7 16/12/2015   17:08:15 24627.04 - 16 December 2015 5:06 PM - Pass for press
Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
Our Business 08
Eleven new customers were gained during 
the year, including Simtom Food Products, 
Summit Chairs, St Marcus Fine Foods, 
Wine Bottling Solutions, Purdie Dished 
Ends and NutriFresh. This compares with 
seven new customers in the prior year.  
Large projects with existing customers 
included Food Partners, Cook Trading and 
Freddy Hirsch.  
Revenue for the year was £6.48 million 
(2014: £6.74 million) and operating 
profit was £680,000 (2014: £952,000).  
Recurring revenue represents over 58% 
of total divisional revenue and covers over 
three-quarters of divisional overheads.  
A good start to the current year, together 
with a strong sales prospect list, should 
ensure that the manufacturing division 
achieves a much improved trading result 
for the full year ending 30 September 
2016.
Outlook
The Board has adopted a three-year 
strategy and has an internal business plan 
which seeks to further develop the Group 
both organically as well as by way of 
selective acquisitions, thereby increasing 
profitability, dividends and shareholder 
value. The Board believes that the Group’s 
digital retail business will enhance the 
Group’s ability to develop and expand.  
Revenues derived from the digital retail 
market have grown from £4.53 million 
in the year ended 30 September 2014 
to £5.87 million in the year ended 30 
September 2015. Reflecting the growing 
importance of the Group’s digital retail 
business, going forward, the Group 
intends to report its breakdown of 
divisional results in terms of a Digital 
Retail business division and an Enterprise 
Software division,which consist of a 
manufacturing business and a warehouse 
and logistics business. The Board will 
continue to invest in its ERP software 
businesses, in order to ensure that 
product offerings continue to both attract 
new customers as well as to maximise and 
encourage additional investment in system 
enhancements from existing customers.  
The combination of more rapid growth 
available via a Digital Retail division and 
the steadier growth from the Enterprise 
Software business is expected to enable 
the Group to meet its strategic targets over 
the next three years and beyond. 
Sanderson has maintained a strong 
balance sheet, a robust business model 
built upon long-term relationships with 
customers generating strong recurring 
revenues and is well-positioned in its 
target markets. Together, these factors 
provide the Board with a good level of 
confidence that, at this early stage of the 
new financial year, the Group will make 
further progress and deliver trading results 
which are, at least, in line with market 
expectations for the year ending  
30 September 2016.
Ian Newcombe 
Group Chief Executive
The Sanderson business 
which addresses the 
general manufacturing 
market improved its 
trading performance 
and this improvement is 
expected to continue into 
the current year
The Board will continue to invest in its ERP software
Group Chief Executive’s business review
continued
Sanderson AR2015 Pass for Press - Strategic.indd   8 16/12/2015   17:08:15
