 24627.04 - 16 December 2015 5:06 PM - Pass for press
Annual Report and Accounts 
for the year ended 30 September 2015
Our Business 02
At a glance
230+
Employees
Sales & Marketing
Technical
Finance & Admin
550+
Customers
Predominantly small & 
medium enterprises 
(SMEs)
Strong market position 
driven by innovation
Well-established, UK-owned
provider of IT solutions
Substantial software IPR 
& expert knowledge of 
target markets
c.£19m
Revenue
Sanderson Group plc is a well-established and 
profitable software and IT services business 
specialising in the multi-channel retail and 
manufacturing markets. 
Operating primarily in the UK and Ireland, the Group provides its customers with 
enterprise systems designed to help them run their businesses efficiently and 
profitably.
   A robust and resilient business
   550 customers and 230+ employees
   IT solutions provider with extensive software IPR and expert 
knowledge of target markets
   Strong market position driven by innovation
   Substantial recurring revenues
   Long-term customer relationships built on high quality service and support
Sanderson serves customers nationwide from seven 
locations around the UK
Sanderson AR2015 Pass for Press - Strategic.indd   2 16/12/2015   17:08:08 24627.04 - 16 December 2015 5:06 PM - Pass for press
03 www.sanderson.com
Our Business
Stock code: SND
Digital retail technology for increased sales
As a long-standing supplier of software and services to 
retail, mail order, catalogue, fulfilment, wholesale and 
online businesses, Sanderson has a unique understanding 
of omni-channel sales. We offer a comprehensive range 
of IT solutions to meet the needs of organisations in this 
sector. Sanderson provides in-store technology, integrated 
back-office and ecommerce systems which underpin 
online operations, and is a major provider of IT solutions to 
the wholesale and cash and carry industry. With systems 
that are flexible and capable of growing as business 
requirements change, we deliver trusted solutions which 
help our customers achieve return on their investment.
Our online, in-store and interactive solutions enable retailers 
to keep pace with new devices, technologies and channels 
and include: desktop, mobile web, mobile apps, in-store 
till (EPoS) apps, assisted selling iPads, kiosk deployments, 
mobile payments such as Apple Pay, beacon technology 
and interactive digital signage.  All of which help our retail 
customers to transform the shopping experience; driving 
consumer engagement, retention and increased sales.
Boosting efficiency & profitability
Sanderson has been helping UK manufacturers succeed 
with IT for over 30 years, delivering proven software 
and long-term value. Our latest business systems, ERP 
(Enterprise Resource Planning) software and cloud-based 
solutions, support many sectors and types of manufacturing 
and are specifically designed for the markets they address 
- discrete manufacturing, food and drink processing, print 
and distribution.
Designed for modern manufacturing, our latest ERP and 
MRP software helps manufacturing and engineering 
businesses improve processes, manage the supply chain 
and provide excellent customer service. Whilst our specialist 
food and beverage ERP, allows food and drink companies 
to manage their production, recipes and new product 
development along with sales, finance and regulatory 
compliance.
Our range of Green IT and Factory and Warehouse 
Automation solutions improve efficiency in manufacturing 
and bring many cost saving benefits to customers.
Transforming the shopping experience with ecommerce in-store
Proven solutions for manufacturing excellence
Multi-Channel Retail
Manufacturing
Sanderson AR2015 Pass for Press - Strategic.indd   3 16/12/2015   17:08:11
