 A STRATEGY TO DELIVER LONG-TERM 
PROFITABLE GROWTH
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
“We enter the current year with two 
strong and distinct businesses, each 
with a specific strategy.”
Overview
The Group delivered a record performance this 
year with strong revenue, profit growth and 
improved margins across each of our markets. 
Healthcare continues to execute its strategy 
of moving up the value chain by expanding its 
offerings and capabilities. We continue to develop 
new customers and to further build and convert 
the pipeline of programmes. We also completed 
the acquisition of First Water Limited during the 
year to further support the Healthcare strategy. 
Industrial’s focused and customer centric 
approach enabled us to respond quickly to 
challenging market conditions and gain market 
share. As a result, our performance across all 
regions was well ahead of the market and 
GDP growth.  
We enter the current year with two strong and 
distinct businesses, each with specific strategy 
and requirements. Healthcare is evolving as the 
market leader in outsourcing for our chosen 
healthcare markets, and we will continue to invest 
in developing our proposition as the full turn-key 
outsourcing partner of choice for our global 
healthcare customers. Industrial is demonstrating 
its potential to further maximise ROCE as we focus 
on key markets and deliver our manufacturing 
strategy. To ensure that each business is driven 
accordingly, we have reorganised the Company 
from a market-based matrix organisation into 
two stand-alone business units supported by 
a strategic corporate function.
Our performance in 2014/15
The Group delivered an excellent performance 
this year with Group revenue increasing to 
£236.0m or 8.3% on a constant currency basis. 
Healthcare revenue increased to £73.8m, growing 
7 .9% at constant exchange rates, and reflected the 
successful launch of a new product in the second 
half of the prior year for one of our major global 
wound care customers. Industrial revenue 
increased to £147 .8m, growing 6.6% at constant 
currency, driven by market share gain and 
improved share of our customers’ spend as 
we responded to changing market conditions 
throughout the year. Electronics finished the year 
strongly despite difficult market conditions in 
Asia. The success was driven following a new 
product launch across the region. The Electronics 
segment will be reported within Industrial from next 
year and we will continue to invest in opportunities 
that will drive growth and improve our return on 
invested capital. 
Group trading profit increased to £18.6m, growing 
27 .4% at constant exchange rates, and margins 
increased to 7 .9%. We continue to improve our 
customer engagement to better demonstrate our 
value proposition while adopting a progressive and 
more strategic approach to pricing; the effect has 
been margin improvement across all our segments. 
Cash generation was in line with expectations and 
we ended the year with net debt of £3.4m after the 
acquisition of First Water Limited for £1 1.2m.
Strategic progress during the year
At the start of the last financial year we identified 
a series of key goals and priorities for the year.
Healthcare: Continue to move up the value 
chain by expanding our offerings and 
capabilities: During the year, we made significant 
investments to further develop our full turn-key 
offerings. We launched MEDIFIX Solutions™ to 
address the wearable market; upgraded quality 
capabilities to meet pharmaceutical standards; 
and acquired First Water Limited to strengthen our 
innovation and development capabilities. As a 
result, we further developed our relationship 
with Johnson & Johnson as part of its “Supplier 
Enabled Innovation” initiative.
Industrial: Automotive and Cable – focus on 
developing strategic partnerships where we 
have critical mass and position on which to 
leverage, accelerating the shift from product 
to solution selling: Automotive made good 
progress, growing at double digit rates. Through a 
dedicated global resource we will continue to work 
6
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 on new projects and products to ensure that they 
are specified in the next generation platforms.
Industrial: Construction and Specialty 
Products – leverage our brands and market 
position to grow our market share through 
expansion of both point of sales and product 
range. Continue to lower the cost to serve 
through technology and further focusing 
our sales strategy: We continue to improve our 
performance with high single digit growth across 
both sectors. Our market share is growing through 
increased point of sales and customer expansion. 
Margins are improving as we maintain a tight 
control of the cost base. Our European business, 
which is focused on construction markets, grew 
3.5% in a declining market.
Acquisitions remain part of the Group’s 
strategy and will help support growth 
through adding capabilities, product 
offerings and services as well as 
geographies or channels to the current 
portfolio: During the year we successfully 
completed the acquisition of First Water Limited, 
a high-quality healthcare business specialising in 
innovation, design and manufacturing of a wide 
range of hydrogels. The business improves 
our capabilities in Healthcare, broadens our 
technology portfolio and customer base and 
improves our manufacturing infrastructure with 
its dedicated Healthcare facility.
Continue to improve our margins by 
maintaining the process of self-help and 
good cost control: We have delivered good 
operating leverage through maintaining control 
of cost while increasing our volume throughput. 
In addition we continue to invest in further 
self-help initiatives and last year we commenced 
the consolidation of our facilities in France with 
a view to improving utilisation and optimising our 
asset base. 
Culture: Instill an entrepreneurial culture 
to align 1,200+ people across 11 countries 
to achieve common objectives: We remain 
committed to developing the culture of Scapa in 
line with our stated aims of value creation through 
fostering entrepreneurship. During the year, we 
launched the “Scapa Way” defined by our guiding 
principles which binds us across regions and 
businesses. We celebrate entrepreneurship that 
creates sustainable shareholder value.
2015/16 strategic goals and priorities
Looking into the 2015/16 financial year, the strategic 
emphasis will be on:
• Healthcare: Continue to build on our successes 
and invest in developing our proposition as the 
full turn-key solution partner of choice for our 
global healthcare customers.
• Industrial: Increase ROCE through optimising 
the asset base focus on capital asset 
allocation by consolidating around strategic 
technology clusters aligned to focused markets 
and customers. 
• Simplify and enhance our operating model  
to allow for better allocation of resources  
and permit the Group to invest in growth 
opportunities that provide the best  
financial returns. 
• Acquisitions that supplement organic growth: 
We will continue to look for acquisitions that 
complement our portfolio of businesses and 
support our growth with the aim of improving 
access to our customers’ supply chain 
through adding new capabilities, product 
offerings, technologies, customers, geographies 
or channels. 
• Continue to improve our margins by maintaining 
the process of self-help and good cost control. 
• Drive cultural transformation: Continue to invest 
in our people and further embed the culture 
programme underpinned by a framework of 
entrepreneurship and clear guiding principles.
Outlook
The Group continues to make good progress 
which is reflected in our financial performance. 
We remain confident in our strategy but will remain 
agile in response to market conditions. While it 
is early in the new financial year we expect to 
continue the momentum and believe the Group 
is well positioned to make continued progress 
in the coming year.
H R Chae
Group Chief Executive
27 May 2015
Leadership Team
From left to right:
Clare Douglas – Group HR Director
Chris Carter – Chief Operating Officer
Heejae Chae – Group Chief Executive
Rebecca Smith – Group General Counsel and 
Company Secretary
Paul Edwards – Group Finance Director
Sayoung Jung – Director of Strategy and 
Corporate Development 
Joe Davin – Group President, Healthcare
James Neuling – Managing Director, Industrial
A full biography of the Leadership Team 
members can be found on our website:  
 
www.scapa.com 
7
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information
