 ANOTHER STRONG YEAR WITH  
CONTINUING INVESTMENT,  
DELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS
Chairman’s Letter
Dear Shareholder 
The actions we have taken to rebuild Scapa in 
recent years are delivering results and have laid 
the foundations for continued growth. This year 
we delivered strong results against a backdrop 
of continuing negative macroeconomic 
conditions and currency movements. Despite 
these headwinds our performance and market 
share gains resulted in both revenue and profit 
growth across all our markets and regions. 
Healthcare delivered another good performance 
establishing itself as a strategic outsourcing 
partner for our global healthcare customers. 
Our business model continues to evolve with the 
changing needs of our customers as they further 
adopt outsourcing as a part of their manufacturing 
strategy. We are continuing to invest to ensure that 
we stay ahead of our customers’ expectations 
and potential competitors. During the year, we 
have significantly invested in quality, marketing 
and sales as we further develop our full turn-key 
offering. Furthermore, to strengthen our innovation 
and development capabilities, we acquired 
First Water Limited, a high-quality healthcare 
business specialising in innovation, design and 
manufacture of a wide range of hydrogels. 
Based in the UK, First Water Limited has a strong 
track record of delivering proven proprietary 
innovations and technologies. Combining Scapa’s 
strengths in material coating, converting and 
packaging with First Water Limited’s R&D and 
innovation capabilities will enable us to provide 
a unique one-stop solution to our customers.
Industrial performed strongly across all regions 
and markets including Europe and construction. 
Our focused and customer centric approach 
enabled us to respond quickly to changing market 
conditions and gain market share. Incremental 
revenue delivers additional profit and better 
margins through improved operating leverage 
and we will continue to focus on asset allocation 
to maximise the Return on Capital Employed 
(ROCE) of our Industrial business. Whilst we have 
successfully executed many self-help initiatives to 
improve the margin there remain significant further 
opportunities and as our market and geographic 
focus is clarified so is our manufacturing strategy. 
In the coming years, we will implement our 
strategy to further optimise and utilise our assets 
through consolidation around strategic technology. 
The first step was taken last year with the 
consolidation of our facilities in France, which will 
be completed during fiscal year 2016. In addition 
we have recently initiated consultation with our 
employees in Rorschach, Switzerland, as we 
“The actions we have taken to 
rebuild Scapa are delivering results 
and have laid the foundations for 
continued growth.”
4
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 explore a number of opportunities to optimise the 
Group’s manufacturing footprint. We believe that 
successful execution of our strategy will deliver 
margins comparable to our competitors in the 
Industrial market. 
Electronics grew an exceptional 28.6% 
achieving a margin of 7 .6% despite difficult market 
conditions. Our investment is yielding profitable 
growth as new products are delivered to the 
market across Asia. The continuing growth 
will require additional investment to meet the 
increasing demand. From fiscal year 2016, the 
results for Electronics will be consolidated within 
Industrial, widening the capabilities of the 
Industrial segment.
Group revenue increased 4.4% to £236.0m 
(2014: £226. 1m) and trading profit increased 20% 
to £18.6m (2014: £15.5m). On a constant currency 
basis, revenue and trading profit grew 8.3% and 
27 .4% respectively, a significant improvement on 
the prior year. Underlying earnings per share 
increased 26.4% to 9. 1p (2014: 7 .2p) and basic 
earnings per share was 6.5p (2014: 4.6p loss). 
Strong cash flow and a management focus on 
working capital ensured that the Group ended 
the year with net debt of £3.4m (2014: £5.4m net 
cash) after the acquisition of First Water Limited 
for £11.2m.
Given the continuing progress and improved 
performance the Board is proposing to increase 
the final dividend by 50% to 1.5p (2014: 1.0p). 
Subject to approval of shareholders at the 
forthcoming Annual General Meeting the dividend 
will be paid on 21 August 2015 to shareholders 
on the register on 24 July 2015. The ex-dividend 
date is 23 July 2015. 
I am delighted to welcome Martin Sawkins to the 
Board of Scapa as a Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. Martin, 
who is currently the Group HR Director of Rentokil 
Initial and a Non-Executive Director at Wincanton 
plc, joined the Board on 1 January 2015. Martin 
brings a blend of leadership credentials and a 
developed commercial awareness to Scapa and I 
am sure he will make a positive contribution to 
the Board’s governance.
A strong governance structure is important to 
support the continued growth of our business. 
The Board remains focused on ensuring its 
effectiveness and that of governance processes 
throughout the Group. The corporate governance 
section on pages 30 to 58 of this report sets out 
the detail of our compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code.
We believe that Scapa’s strongest competitive 
advantage is our people and culture. The ”Scapa 
Way”, defined by our guiding principles, binds 
us across regions and businesses. We celebrate 
entrepreneurship that creates value for our 
shareholders and we will continue to invest in 
our people to drive the development of a high 
performing culture. The success of the Company 
is down to the continuing hard work, passion and 
dedication of our people in delivering our strategy 
and I want to thank the employees of Scapa 
whose efforts have helped us achieve so much 
as we lay the foundations for future growth. 
Scapa continues to make good progress. As we 
look forward to the new financial year our strategy 
is clear and we have a team with a strong track 
record of delivery. This combination gives me 
confidence that we are well positioned to exploit 
the opportunities that exist for the business. 
I anticipate we will continue to make progress and 
deliver value to our shareholders over the coming 
year and beyond.
J A S Wallace
Chairman
27 May 2015
ANOTHER STRONG YEAR WITH  
CONTINUING INVESTMENT,  
DELIVERING VALUE TO SHAREHOLDERS
5
Scapa Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information
