 8
Servelec group plc
annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
This year has been about delivering on the promises we made in 2014 and our 
overall result is in line with market expectations. The mix might be slightly 
different but this demonstrates the benefits of our diversified business model. 
The outlook is positive for the Group in 2016 with a strong order book and 
improving market conditions.
2015 performance
Group performance was strong during 2015, with revenues up 22% to 
£63.1m and Operating Profit up 27% to £13.4m. These results are in line 
with market expectations and whilst the mix may be a little different  
to what was originally anticipated, the nature of the business means  
the we can weather the ‘headwinds’ that may arise in segments of  
our market areas and by adapting, deliver an overall result which  
is on target.
Servelec Health & Social Care 
Servelec’s Health & Social Care division performed exceptionally well 
during 2015. Healthcare was driven, in the main, by the Refresh of 
systems for London and the South which Servelec delivered on time and 
on budget enabling completion of the National Programme for IT for 21 
Trusts and provider organisations that chose to stay with our RiO 
product. These 21 organisations added to our expanding client base to 
which we can upsell our services such as RiO Mobile, EPMA and 
Hosting. Attention turns fully to the other areas of England where we 
are seeking to further expand our Healthcare business into Mental 
Health, Community Health and Acute Trusts. This is as part of the 
run-down of the national programme contracts handled by Computer 
Science Corporation (CSC); North Refresh and those organisations who 
opted not to adopt the solution being offered to them, retaining their 
legacy system; North New. Taking additional market share for our Acute 
product offering (both RiO and Oceano) is of paramount importance. 
Building on our collaboration with University Hospitals Birmingham we 
are really pleased with our recent win for an Acute PAS with a multi-site 
Trust.
Our investment to grow within Social Care and onward into Converged 
Care through the acquisition of Corelogic is proving its worth. Our core 
Social Care product, Mosaic, is market leading and only has one real 
competitor in a market where customers are reviewing their potential 
supply chain for the next few years as Local Authorities, through 
changing Government legislation, are being pressured to upgrade their 
systems through necessity. Servelec Corelogic has transitioned to being 
an important part of the Servelec Group with increasing margins. During 
the period, we have strengthened Servelec Corelogic’s management 
team in customer service, sales, account management, finance, and 
product development under the leadership of Garry McCord. Garry 
moved across to lead Servelec Corelogic following a successful 20 years 
in Servelec Healthcare, demonstrating our dedication to training our 
employees and promoting from within where the skills set and 
opportunities allow. 
Alan Stubbs
Chief Executive Officer 9
Servelec group plc 
annual report and accounts 2015
Servelec Health & Social Care has improved as a business during 2015 
and delivered on profitability, enhanced customer satisfaction and 
invested in the continual development of our people. Social Care in 
particular outperformed original expectations and with the market 
opportunities in Social Care, this is a trend that we can see continuing  
in 2016.
Servelec Automation
The constituent parts of Servelec Automation have seen differing 
fortunes during 2015. Servelec Controls is a business which is primarily 
focused on brownfield refurbishment, especially in areas where clients 
invest to improve operational efficiency and reduce manpower thus 
improving the profitability or indeed chances of survival for the 
business. The price of oil shows no sign of recovering, even in the 
mid-term and hence there is a massive reduction in oil and gas markets 
as operators move to reduce costs. Within the market context we 
believe our track record in reducing the operating expenditure of our 
clients through automation and enabling remote operations provides 
growth opportunities. Given the substantial drop in the oil price the 
2015 results for Servelec Controls held up. This is thanks to the 
diversification enacted by the management team, primarily through the 
investment in our Power and Nuclear management and sales team and 
the opportunity taken on during 2015 for the control system 
refurbishment for Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plants here in the 
UK that are being sold overseas.
The currently unfavourable market conditions in which it operates has 
resulted in Servelec Technologies performing below expectations. This 
has been a year of headwinds created by struggling global sales as a 
consequence of the suspended new oil and gas projects which impacted 
RTU sales in USA and Middle East, together with a slower than 
expected increase in sales under the AMP6 programme for water 
companies in the UK because of the reduction in their original 
determination following the general election. Despite these negative 
factors we have delivered a reasonable result and continued to invest in 
products and people, particularly our sales teams, and have been 
working hard to align our distribution channels and sales opportunities. 
None of this spend has been capitalised during the year. We are now 
poised to take advantage of the improving market conditions in the UK 
and other areas as these occur on a global basis.
“This has been a very positive year for 
Servelec. The Group has delivered on 
its promises of strong and predictable 
financial performance, supported by its 
diversified business model.”
Strategy and outlook 
Our overall strategy for the business remains unchanged and we have 
continued to deliver on all of the four pillars. 
• We have achieved demonstrable organic growth, both in existing 
markets and into new areas such as Social Care, Acute Healthcare, 
Power and Nuclear and CHP plants.
• Product development to enhance existing offerings has continued, 
specifically with the S2000 nano RTU from Servelec Technologies 
and the RIO mobile, Portal and Business Analytics in Health & Social 
Care. 
• We have continued to invest in our people to develop our 
distribution channels and routes to market; and
• The integration of recently acquired businesses, Aura and Corelogic, 
continues to add value for customers and shareholders and we 
foresee bolt-on acquisitions continuing in 2016 where they fit with 
our strategy and meet our strict financial criteria.
Overall this has been a very positive year for Servelec. The Group has 
delivered on its promises of strong and predictable financial 
performance, supported by its diversified business model. We finish the 
2015 financial year with an improved cash position, a strengthened 
order book and growing pipelines of opportunities for 2016 which 
underpin our budget for the year. Along with my colleagues on the 
Board I am positive about the outlook for 2016. Our portfolio of 
solutions provides compelling business cases for cost reduction and 
effective operations which is essential in the current climate. Servelec 
Automation looks poised for a year of growth as delayed projects get 
off the ground and Health & Social Care will continue to improve on 
performance to date, specifically in its Social Care business unit.
Alan Stubbs
Chief Executive Officer
1 March 2016
