 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT
Since joining the Group on 1 May 2015 and 
succeeding Mark Rollins as Group CEO on 
1 June 2015, I have immersed myself in 
the business and spent time with many 
stakeholders including customers, investors, 
our leadership teams and other employees 
across the Group from shop floor to 
boardroom. Since last May I have visited all 
33 operating businesses across the 14 
countries in which we operate. As intended, 
this has given me a clear understanding of 
our business. What I discovered as I visited 
our operations was confirmation of my 
expectations as I joined Senior: I was joining 
a company that was already well run and 
therefore the primary focus would be on 
enhancing a business that is well positioned for 
the future, rather than having to completely 
transform the organisation. That said, there is 
much to do to ensure that the Group continues 
to grow sustainably, maintains and improves 
its competitiveness and meets our customers’ 
demands for ever-improving levels of 
operational excellence. 
I will comment more on the work which the 
Executive Leadership Team has been doing 
since I joined, but first let me comment on 
the 2015 results.
OVERVIEW OF 2015 RESULTS
Senior delivered a solid set of results in 2015 
given the challenging conditions in some of 
our end markets. 
Group revenue increased by 3.5% to £849.5m. 
This included a favourable exchange impact of 
£24.9m and the beneficial incremental impact 
from three acquisitions of £25.4m. Excluding 
the year-on-year effect of acquisitions, Group 
revenue from organic operations was down 
£21.6m on a constant currency basis. The 
overall organic revenue decline was primarily 
due to gains within the Aerospace Division 
that were more than offset by declines in the 
Flexonics Division, reflecting the challenging 
market conditions faced by the truck and 
off-highway and industrial businesses.
Adjusted operating profit decreased by £3.8m 
(3.4%) to £107.8m, with the Group achieving 
an adjusted operating margin of 12.7%. This 
included a favourable exchange impact of 
£3.9m and £1.6m of year-on-year operating 
profit contributed by acquisitions. Adjusted 
operating profit from organic operations 
decreased by 8.1% on a constant currency 
basis, excluding the effect of acquisitions and 
exchange movements. As previously disclosed, 
margins were impacted during the year by 
volume reductions on mature programmes, 
such as the A330, lower profits on aluminium 
revert prices, temporary activities to protect 
customer schedules and volume reductions in 
the off-highway, power and energy markets.
In challenging market conditions, it is important 
to balance the desire to cut costs with 
maintaining appropriate production capacity. 
The Group diligently implemented a number 
of cost reduction actions during the year, 
particularly within the Flexonics Division. These 
included: transferring work to competitive cost 
countries, implementing furloughs at specific 
factories, reducing Flexonics headcount from 
3,057 to 2,783 and curbing non-essential 
discretionary spending. 
SENIOR 
DELIVERED A 
SOLID SET OF 
RESULTS IN 
2015. THE 
GROUP’S 
OVERALL 
STRATEGY 
REMAINS 
UNCHANGED
“ The Group is financially robust 
and remains well positioned 
for the future as new Aerospace 
and Flexonics programmes 
and products enter production 
and as Senior increasingly 
benefits from its strong 
customer relationships and 
global footprint”
DAVID SQUIRES GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE
10  Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The Group continues to generate healthy cash 
flow and delivered free cash inflow of £51.7m 
after gross investment in capital expenditure of 
£48.6m. This investment in capital equipment 
is essential in our business to meet increasing 
levels of demand that are being communicated 
to us by our Aerospace customers. The level of 
net debt at the end of December 2015 was 
£194.6m and the ratio of net debt to EBITDA 
was 1.4x, within the Group’s normal target 
range of 0.5x to 1.5x and comfortably below 
the Group’s bank covenant level of 3.0x. The 
Group is financially strong and is able to fund 
future organic and acquisitive growth.
Recognising the underlying strength of the 
business and its future prospects, the Board 
is proposing a final dividend of 4.36 pence 
per share. This would bring total dividends, 
paid and proposed for 2015 to 6.20 pence 
per share, representing an increase of 10% 
over the prior year.
STRATEGY
The Group’s overall strategy remains 
unchanged. Demand for large commercial 
aircraft remains robust with Boeing and Airbus 
having record nine-year orderbooks. Trends in 
world air traffic are positive and are forecast 
to remain so. In addition, new platforms in 
military, regional and business jet markets, 
combined with increasing shipset content, will 
help propel future growth. While exposure to 
certain markets in our Flexonics Division poses 
near-term challenges, we are confident of the 
long-term attractiveness of these end markets 
and in particular of the many growth 
opportunities with existing and new customers 
in this sector. It is our intention to retain the 
balance between Aerospace and Flexonics and 
to grow both segments of our business. Of 
course, from time to time it is appropriate to 
review the portfolio of the Group and where 
necessary specific disposals or mergers of 
operations will be considered.
Over the past six months, the Executive 
Leadership Team has undertaken a strategic 
assessment of the business and has developed 
goals and priorities which have been reviewed, 
discussed and agreed with the Board. These 
strategic priorities are set out below:
1.  Enhance Senior’s Autonomous and 
Collaborative Business Model.
2. Focus on Growth.
3.  Introduce a High Performance 
Operating System.
4. Competitive Cost Country Strategy.
5.  Considered and Effective Capital Deployment.
6. Talent Development.
To complement these strategic goals and 
priorities, we have defined the core values 
which underpin the culture we aim to nurture in 
Senior. At a practical governance level we have 
updated key policies, such as the Senior Code 
of Conduct, as part of a holistic Corporate 
Framework. These updated policies are being 
implemented with training for all appropriate 
employees during the first half of 2016.
SUMMARY
I am excited about the future of Senior plc. 
Of course, there are some near-term challenges 
in some of our cyclical industrial and land vehicle 
markets – we are monitoring these carefully 
and responding accordingly. In Aerospace, 
order books for large commercial aircraft have 
never been higher, extending to more than 
nine years. Anyone who has flown in the most 
modern aircraft, will know that it is not just 
greater fuel efficiency that is driving record 
levels of new aircraft deliveries; it is also 
demand from increasingly knowledgeable 
passengers for greater levels of comfort and 
a better overall flying experience. When one 
considers that one in two of the world’s 
population has never travelled by air, then it is 
reasonable to conclude that the decades’ long 
growth experienced in this industry is set to 
continue for many more years. In all of our 
markets we work with truly world-class 
companies, leaders in their sectors; we will 
maintain an ever closer dialogue about their 
present and future requirements so we can 
tailor our investments accordingly. 
OUR GROUP 
VISION
A trusted and collaborative 
high value-added engineering 
and manufacturing company 
producing sustainable growth 
in operating profit, cash flow 
and shareholder value.
VALUES
SAFETY
We operate safely, protecting people  
and the environment
INTEGRITY
We operate with integrity and in an  
ethical manner
CUSTOMER FOCUS
We put the customer at the heart of 
everything we do
RESPECT AND TRUST
We work together with mutual respect 
and trust
ACCOUNTABILITY 
We do what we say
EXCELLENCE
We continually strive to do better in  
every aspect of our business
ORDER BOOKS 
9 years Boeing and Airbus have record  
nine-year order books.
DIVIDEND GROWTH 
10%
Paid and proposed dividends  
increase by 10%.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015  11 Our Company is financially robust and we will 
continue with our pragmatic approach that 
balances our growth objectives. We will ensure 
our capital is deployed in a manner that provides 
strong returns and enhances shareholder value.
MARKET CONDITIONS
Aerospace markets continue to be generally 
buoyant while land vehicle and industrial 
markets remain challenging.
The production ramp-up of new engine option 
single aisle and wide-body aircraft means the 
outlook for the large commercial aerospace 
sector is both strong and visible. Airbus has 
announced that they are planning to increase 
single aisle aircraft production to a rate of 60 per 
month in 2019 and Boeing has announced a 
similar increase to a rate of 57 in 2019. Airbus 
has already delivered their first A320neo in 
January 2016 while Boeing successfully 
completed the first flight of their 737 MAX 
with LEAP 1B engines.
The Group is a supplier to all of the major 
aero-engine manufacturers and will benefit 
in particular from additional content on the 
new CFM International LEAP engines, the 
Pratt  & Whitney Geared Turbo Fan engines, 
as well as the Rolls-Royce Trent 1000, Trent 
7000 and XWB engines.
In the Flexonics Division, progress continues 
with the development of Senior’s EGR cooler 
offering, with product on test with a number 
of potential new customers. Overall volumes 
in heavy-duty trucks increased in 2015 although 
growth slowed in the second half of the year 
and is expected to decline in 2016. The 
off-highway sector has been weak in 2015 
and remains so in the early months of 2016. 
Passenger vehicle demand in Europe was 
strong through 2015 and into 2016.
The Petrochemical market remains uncertain. 
The direct impact of lower oil prices can be 
seen from the equipment destocking evident 
across the sector, thus reducing activity at 
LPE and Upeca Flexonics. As this destocking 
completes we can expect some recovery in 
demand with fuller recovery once oil prices 
recover to a stable level.
OUTLOOK
2016 has started much as 2015 ended with 
mixed trading conditions across our end 
markets. In Aerospace we expect further 
revenue growth in 2016 with a stronger profit 
in the second half, driven by increasing 
revenues and the operational improvements 
we are implementing across the Division. 
However, challenging market conditions in 
some of our Flexonics markets, including truck 
and off-highway and oil and gas, mean that the 
outlook for Flexonics remains uncertain. Whilst 
the Group will continue with its focus on cost 
management and efficiency initiatives, these 
challenging conditions are expected to 
outweigh progress in the Aerospace Division. 
Looking further ahead, the Board believes 
Senior remains well positioned to make good 
progress. Senior has established a global 
footprint which is providing opportunities 
to increase market share and deliver strong 
organic growth. New aerospace programmes 
are entering production, whilst build rates on 
key existing platforms are increasing, thus 
providing opportunities for improvements in 
operational efficiency. Staying focused on 
customer alignment, operational excellence 
and investing in organisational capability and 
leadership talent will enable Senior to continue 
to grow organically over the longer-term. 
Furthermore, Senior’s cash- generative nature 
and robust financial position provide a solid 
platform from which the Group can continue 
to pursue growth opportunities to complement 
its existing portfolio.
David Squires
Group Chief Executive
BOEING 
57per month 737 build rate increase to 57 per month  
in 2019.
AIRBUS 
60per month A320 build rate increase to 60 per month  
in 2019.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
12  Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
