 8 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Overview
This	has	been	a	challenging	first	year	with	
trading over the Easter and early summer 
period	being	behind	the	prior	year	and	our	
expectations.	However,	in	many	key	areas	
we	have	made	substantial	progress	on	our	
strategic	priorities.	The	growth	of	our	
flooring	business,	the	development	of	the	
House	of	Fraser	concession,	our	online	
sales	channel	and	our	broad	product	range	
allow	us	to	drive	sales	across	a	more	
diverse	range	of	customers,	keeping	
operating	expenses	tightly	controlled	 
and	thereby	building	the	adaptability	and	
resilience	of	the	business	to	changing	
economic	conditions.	
The	main	elements	of	this	strategy,	which	
were	laid	out	at	the	time	of	the	IPO,	remain	
the	same	and	we’re	pleased	to	report	that	
we	have	continued	to	make	good	progress,	
in	particular	with	attracting	a	wider	
customer	demographic.
Results
Our	results	for	the	financial	year	were	
adversely	affected	by	a	short,	sharp	dip	in	
trading momentum in April and early May, 
which	is	seasonally	a	very	important	period	
for	the	business.	This	downturn	in	trading	
was	caused	primarily	by	a	particularly	
warm	early	spring	and	the	timing	of	the	
general	election	campaign.	Our	analysis	
suggests	that	the	business	did	not	lose	
market share during this period. Whilst 
trading returned to a normal pattern 
through	the	summer	and	beyond,	the	
business	wasn’t	able	to	recover	the	impact	
from the loss of footfall and trade in our 
stores during this key period.
 
The Board and senior management are 
confident	that	this	was	no	more	than	a	
temporary	setback	as	demonstrated	by	the	
positive like for like order intake to the end 
£11.3m 
-17.5%
Adjusted EBITDA
13.75p
Adjusted Earnings  
per Share
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
We have a strong brand with broad consumer appeal,  
an excellent network of well-invested stores, modern 
infrastructure, a high returning and cash-generative 
business model and a long runway of opportunity to expand 
from our existing geographic footprint. Consequently I look 
forward to the year ahead and beyond with confidence.
“ The business has 
grown well in terms 
of revenues, market 
shares and cash 
generation.”
 David Knight
 Chief Executive Officer 9 ScS Group plc Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements
of	the	financial	year	and	a	continuation	of	
that	trend	in	the	first	nine	weeks	of	the	
current	financial	year.	
Expansion
We	now	operate	from	96	stores	across	 
the	UK,	almost	all	of	which	are	in	modern	
out	of	town	retail	parks,	often	alongside	
competing	furniture	and	floorcoverings	
retailers - plus the 30 House of Fraser 
concession	units	which	we	opened	at	the	
start	of	the	last	financial	year.	
We	opened	three	new	stores	in	the	year	–	 
at	Abbotsinch	in	Glasgow,	Croydon	and	
Slough,	generating	combined	gross	sales	
of	£6.8	million	and	a	positive	contribution	
to	the	profitability	in	line	with	our	
expectations.	Our	first	full	year	operating	
the	House	of	Fraser	concession	has	proved	
challenging	for	us	as	we	have	learned	more	
about	the	customer	and	operating	as	a	
‘third	party’	but	it	did	generate	sales	of	
£21.2	million	in	its	first	full	year,	albeit	with	
a	negative	impact	on	our	result.	We	believe	
that	as	the	concession	matures,	it	will	make	
a	positive	contribution	to	the	Group’s	profits.
Given	the	nature	of	our	business	and	
particularly	the	high-ticket	character	of	
the	products	we	sell,	we	see	the	website	
primarily as a marketing tool and support 
for	customers	in	their	buying	decisions,	in	
conjunction	with	a	visit	to	a	store.	However,	
the	launch	of	our	new	website	has	made	
excellent	progress;	the	convenience	of	
ordering	online	continued	to	grow	during	
the	year	with	revenue	increasing	by	 
£1.7 million, or 25.4%, to £8.4 million. 
Current Trading and Outlook
We	are	encouraged	by	our	trading	
performance	since	the	start	of	the	current	
financial	year	and	we	are	in	line	with	our	
expectations.	However,	we	remain	mindful	
that	we	continue	to	face	strong	
comparatives	during	the	remainder	of	the	
first	half	of	the	year	and	that	a	number	of	
key trading periods are ahead of us.
With	a	strong	brand,	broad	product	range	
with	good	consumer	appeal,	an	excellent	
network	of	well-invested	stores	with	an	
opportunity	to	expand,	from	our	existing	
geographic	footprint,	and	growth	from	the	
continued	development	of	the	House	of	
Fraser	concession,	the	Group	has	a	clear	
growth	strategy.	We	look	forward	to	the	
year	ahead	and	beyond	with	confidence.	
Supported	by	our	highly	cash	generative	
business	model	and	strong	cash	position,	
the	Board	has	proposed	a	final	dividend	
payment of 11.2p making the total 
dividend	14.0p	for	the	year,	which	meets	
the	commitment	made	at	the	IPO.	
Strategy
We have developed and implemented a 
strategy	aimed	at	capitalising	on	the	core	
underlying	strengths	of	the	business.
The strategy is designed to drive sales 
across	a	more	diverse	range	of	customers,	
products	and	channels	whilst	limiting	
increases	in	operating	expenses	and	
thereby	also	building	the	adaptability	and	
resilience	of	the	business	to	changing	
economic conditions.
The main elements of the strategy to date 
have	been	as	follows	and	these	remain	the	
key	focus	for	the	whole	ScS	team:
• The	introduction	of	a	branded	range	 
of	furniture	products,	including	both	
third	party	and	ScS	private	label	brands;
• The	development	of	a	flooring	offering,	
principally	carpets,	but	including	
laminates	and	vinyl floorcoverings;
• The addition of a range of 
complementary	products,	including	
tables,	dining	furniture	and	accessories	
such	as	lamps	and	rugs;
• Extending	the	interest-free	consumer	
credit	offering	to	all	products;
• The development of our online 
capability	and	offer;	and
• The	introduction	of	a	furniture	and	
flooring	offer	through	a	concession	
agreement in 30 House of Fraser 
department stores. 
The	above	are	monitored	as	Management	
Performance	Indicators.
Our overall strategy and its main elements 
are	explained	in	more	detail	on	pages	12	
and 13 of this report. 
I’m	pleased	to	report	that	we	have	
continued	to	make	good	progress	in	all	 
of	these	areas.	I	would	particularly	draw	
shareholders’	attention	to	the	growth	 
of	our	flooring	business,	the	development	
within	House	of	Fraser,	attracting	a	wider	
customer	demographic	through	our	
branded	product	ranges	and	the	growth	we	
have	achieved	in	our	online	sales	channel.
Corporate Responsibility
At	ScS	we	see	our	core	purpose	as	helping	
customers	find	the	perfect	furniture	and	
flooring	for	their	home,	suiting	both	their	
personal	budget	and	their	personal	style.	
At	the	same	time	of	course,	we	recognise	
that	as	a	responsible	business	we	have	an	
obligation	to	operate	in	a	manner	that	is	
both	ethical	and	sustainable.
At	ScS,	Corporate	Social	Responsibility	
(CSR)	is	a	key	part	of	our	business	and	 
is integrated into the day-to-day 
management	of	the	Company.	It	is	
important to our reputation in the  
marketplace	and	to	our	customers	and	
colleagues,	as	well	as	wider	stakeholders	 
in	society	and	the	communities	we	serve.	
Our	CSR	programmes	are	focused	on	four	
key	priority	areas:	Environment,	where	our	
emphasis	is	on	recycling	waste,	reducing	
electricity	usage	and	improving	fuel	
efficiencies;	Health	&	Safety,	to	ensure	that	
our	staff	and	customers	can	work	and	shop	
in	a	safe	environment;	Colleagues,	where	
our	focus	is	on	seeking	to	ensure	that	ScS	 
is	a	great	place	to	work	and	develop;	and	
Community,	where	we	put	great	emphasis	
on	local	charitable	fundraising.
Further	details	of	our	CSR	programmes	 
and	commentary	on	progress	made	during	
the	year	are	provided	in	the	Corporate	
Responsibility	section	of	this	report,	
beginning	on	page	22.
David Knight
Chief Executive Officer 
14	October	2015
“ At ScS we see our core purpose as 
helping customers find the perfect 
furniture and flooring for their home.”
