 CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
2015 PERFORMANCE
Senior delivered a solid performance in 2015 
against the backdrop of difficult market 
conditions, particularly on the industrial side 
of the business. Adjusted profit before tax 
decreased to £99.3m, down 3%, or 6% on 
a constant currency basis, over the prior year. 
This was mainly due to gains in the Aerospace 
Division being more than offset by significant 
declines in the Flexonics Division reflecting 
the challenging market conditions resulting 
from global uncertainty in the oil and gas, 
commodity and industrial sectors.
Group cash generation remains strong, with 
free cash flow of £51.7m for the year resulting 
in a strong financial position for the Group at 
the end of 2015. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
4.36 pence per share which would bring  
total dividends, paid and proposed, for 2015  
to 6.20 pence per share. The increase of  
10% over 2014 despite the decrease in 
adjusted earnings per share reflects  
the Group’s encouraging medium-term 
prospects and dividend cover of 3.1 times.
GOVERNANCE
The Board recognises the importance of 
setting the right tone from the top of the 
organisation, and for this reason has been 
encouraged by the work undertaken in 2015 
to update key policies such as the Senior Code 
of Conduct as part of a holistic corporate 
framework. The Board has continued to 
maintain oversight of capital allocation, 
performance and risk management. During 
2015, significant improvements were made to 
the Group’s risk management processes and 
these have been explained on pages 26 to 31 
of this Annual Report.
SAFETY
As a Board we are committed to the safety  
and well-being of our employees. Our goal is to 
eliminate occupational injury and illness through 
our Zero Harm strategy so everyone returns 
home safely at the end of the day. It is with 
great sadness, therefore, to report on two 
deaths that occurred in 2015 from activities 
closely associated with Senior. A sub-contractor 
died while working on the construction of the 
Group’s new facility in India and in December 
an engineer was fatally injured while working 
for our Chinese joint venture. Following both of 
these incidents, a comprehensive investigation 
was conducted and a series of corrective 
actions have been implemented and the 
lessons shared across the Group. 
SUSTAINABILITY
Environmental stewardship and corporate 
responsibility are values core to Senior and 
performance in these areas is increasingly 
important to our investors, customers and 
employees. As the Group expands, the 
responsibility to improve the environmental 
performance and strengthen the focus on 
safety within newly acquired businesses is  
a key operational aim. During 2015, the Group 
has increased its efforts in this area and has 
developed a new 20/20 Vision which outlines 
our approach to Sustainability for the next five 
years. Consequently, this year’s Annual Report 
includes an expanded Corporate Responsibility 
section outlining all of the key themes and 
actions which underpin our 20/20 Vision.
ACQUISITIONS
As well as growing organically, Senior 
seeks to increase shareholder value through 
the acquisition of capabilities adjacent to its 
existing portfolio. 
This strategy continued in 2015 with the 
acquisition of Lymington Precision Engineering 
(“LPE”) and Steico Industies Inc., (“Steico”).
A SOLID 
PERFORMANCE 
IN A 
CHALLENGING 
YEAR
CHARLES BERRY CHAIRMAN
8  Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
LPE represents an excellent addition to 
Senior’s portfolio, strengthening the Group’s 
precision machining capabilities and providing 
access to LPE’s strong customer relationships 
and adjacent markets. 
Steico represents an important addition to 
Senior’s Aerospace Division, broadening our 
product offering and enabling Senior to respond 
to our customers’ desire for us to offer more 
complete fluid systems work packages. The 
Board is delighted to welcome the employees 
of both businesses to the Group.
THE BOARD
Mark Rollins retired from the Board on 
31 May 2015 after 17 years with the Group 
including seven years as Chief Executive. Mark 
made an outstanding contribution to Senior 
during his time with the Group, and on behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank him for his 
dedicated and successful service to Senior and 
to wish him all the very best for a long and 
fulfilling retirement. 
In May 2015, David Squires joined the Group  
as Chief Executive-designate, before taking 
over as Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2015. 
I am extremely pleased to have David on the 
team and have already observed the benefits 
of his depth and breadth of experience, 
following 25 years in the global aerospace and 
defence industry, working in both developing 
and larger organisations.
I am also pleased to welcome Susan Brennan 
to Senior, as a non-executive Director. 
Susan Brennan is Chief Operations Officer at 
Bloom Energy Corporation, a leading developer 
of solid oxide fuel cell technology based in 
Sunnyvale, California. Susan has more than 
25 years of manufacturing experience, including 
automotive vehicle, powertrain and components 
assembly. She served as VP of Manufacturing 
at Nissan North America, Inc. and as Director 
of global manufacturing at Ford, where she led 
a global business office for Ford’s assembly, 
powertrain and stamping plants.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank Andy Hamment for his contribution to 
Senior. Andy has decided to retire from the 
Board after the conclusion of the Company’s 
AGM on 22 April 2016.
EMPLOYEES
Senior’s continued strength is a reflection 
of the quality of the people within the Group. 
Senior now employs over 7,400 people with 
around 1,300 located in Asia, demonstrating 
the ever-increasing global nature of the 
Group. On behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank all of the Group’s employees for their 
significant contribution to Senior’s success 
over the past year.
STRATEGY
The Group’s primary performance objective 
is to create long-term sustainable growth in 
shareholder value. It aims to achieve this 
objective through the development of a 
portfolio of collaborative high value-added 
engineering manufacturing companies within 
its five market sector framework: three in 
the Aerospace Division (Fluid Conveyance 
Systems, Gas Turbine Engines and Structures) 
and two in the Flexonics Division (Land Vehicle 
Emission Control and Industrial Process 
Control), with each strategic market sector 
offering deliverable growth opportunities. 
The Group’s strategy has proven to be 
successful over recent years and, whilst 
evolving as the Group gets larger and market 
conditions change, it continues to provide  
a solid foundation for the Group’s future 
growth aspirations.
Charles Berry
Chairman
NEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
APPOINTED 
David Squires joined Senior and the Board 
on 1 May 2015, and took over from  
Mark Rollins as Group Chief Executive 
on 1 June 2015.
CHANGES TO  
THE BOARD
David Squires joined the Board 
1 May 2015. 
Mark Rollins retired  
31 May 2015.
Susan Brennan joined the Board  
1 January 2016.
Andy Hamment will retire following  
the AGM.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015  9
