 Chief Executive’s Statement
Delivering 
Growth
Successful execution against 
our strategic objectives will 
continue to create additional  
long-term shareholder value.
Radios delivered
>200,000
We shipped a total of over 217,000 radios in 2015  
(2014: 188,000)
Our record order book at the year-end of  
€41 million for delivery in FY16 included 
orders for a further 63,000 radios for delivery 
to the same network.
We believe this confirms TETRA as the digital 
PMR standard of choice for public safety users 
around the world, despite some uncertainty 
in the UK over the future role of TETRA for 
such users. This speculation did not have a 
material impact on our business in the UK, 
where we shipped 21,000 radios compared 
to 24,000 last year. We expect the UK market 
to continue to deliver strong repeat TETRA 
revenues during the medium term, together 
with an increasingly significant contribution 
from DMR as commercial users in the UK 
migrate to digital solutions.
PMR users increasingly demand more than 
voice communications from their investment 
in digital networks. Sepura’s investment 
in software applications enables us to 
support users as they adopt complementary 
technologies that supplement TETRA’s core 
voice and data capabilities. Our success 
in securing a significant role as part of a 
consortium delivering a multi-year, multi-
agency and multi-standard Command & 
Control platform for the Finnish National 
Police Board confirms TETRA has a long-
term role as an integral part of national PMR 
networks across Europe, and that Sepura is 
well positioned to address the increasingly 
complex needs of our customers.
The acquisition of Teltronic with its established 
infrastructure portfolio will enable us to 
accelerate our market penetration of new 
PMR networks around the world. Teltronic 
brings strong brands in Latin and North 
America, which together represented 83% of 
its revenues in the year ended 31 December 
2014 compared to the current 5% for Sepura. 
In addition to this increased geographical 
diversity, Sepura will also have a more diverse 
customer base as 39% of Teltronic’s revenues 
are derived from commercial users, compared 
to 25% for Sepura in FY15. Teltronic also 
provides increased scale and longer-term 
revenue visibility through its contracted  
order backlog, together with an opportunity  
to promote Sepura’s existing products across 
Teltronic’s installed base of networks.
Gordon 
Watling
Chief 
Executive
We have delivered a fourth consecutive  
year of double-digit growth in adjusted 
operating profit, which increased by 20%  
to €15 million despite €1.9 million of foreign 
exchange headwinds. This has been achieved 
by our continuing focus on combining 
strong operational performance in our core 
markets with the strategic expansion of our 
addressable market, which has increased 
to approximately $3.3 billion following 
investments in DMR, software applications 
and, most recently, the acquisition of Teltronic.
Our core markets continue to show 
sustained, long-term demand despite the 
impact of macro-economic factors on 
specific segments such as the extractive 
industries. Terminal shipments increased 
by 15% to 217,000 radios, compared to 
188,000 last year, and included 65,000 radios 
delivered in Germany and 31,000 radios 
delivered to a new national public safety 
network in Saudi Arabia.  
04 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
