 Facilitating the Analogue 
to Digital Migration
I am pleased to report 
another year of record 
revenues and a 20% 
increase in adjusted 
operating profit to €15.0 
million, despite significant 
foreign exchange 
headwinds. 
Chairman’s Statement
Revenues
+12%
Record revenues of €131.2 million  
(2014: €116.6 million)
Addressable market
$3.3b
Addressable market increased from  
$2.5 billion to $3.3 billion 
At the same time we have continued to invest 
in expanding our addressable market, both 
organically and through acquisition, to ensure 
that we are positioned to benefit from the 
accelerating analogue to digital migration within 
the Professional Mobile Radio (“PMR”) market.
This acceleration reflects both government 
mandated migration to digital technologies, 
driven by a need for interoperability and 
increased spectrum efficiency, together 
with commercial users’ need for operational 
efficiencies that cannot be realised from 
obsolete analogue networks. We have 
responded to these trends by broadening 
our product portfolio and expanding our 
geographical reach, thereby significantly 
increasing our addressable market.  
Sepura now offers more solutions for a wider 
range of PMR users, as demonstrated by 
the increasing contribution from our recent 
investments in DMR and software applications.
Dr. John 
Hughes CBE 
Hon DSc
Chairman
The acquisition of T eltronic represents a material 
step in the transformation of Sepura into a 
geographically and technologically diverse 
critical communications solution supplier; it 
builds further on our successful earlier entry into 
the infrastructure market through the acquisition 
of 3T in FY13. T eltronic will enable us to accelerate 
the delivery of our strategic goals by providing 
additional scale, improved revenue visibility 
and increased exposure to commercial PMR 
users. The acquisition strengthens the Group’ s 
position in a range of markets, with T eltronic’ s 
customer base primarily in Latin America and 
North America. Combining T eltronic, the leading 
TETRA infrastructure supplier in North America, 
with Sepura, the market-leading TETRA terminals 
supplier, creates a compelling solution in the 
world’ s largest PMR market. We are confident 
that we can build on the early success of both 
businesses and make North America a significant 
market for the Group. 
Our record order book and the opportunities 
created by T eltronic give us confidence that 
our business is set to deliver further growth in 
earnings and cash generation over the coming 
years, reflected in a further increase in the annual 
dividend of 20% to 2.4p.
Our success was recognised in April 2015 with 
the award of the Queen’s Award for Enterprise: 
International Trade, which is a testament to the 
outstanding contribution of all of our employees 
to the profitable growth of our business.  
I would like once again to thank them for their 
commitment, and welcome our new colleagues 
from T eltronic who join us at an exciting time in 
Sepura’s development.
Subsequent to the acquisition of Teltronic and 
the significant expansion of the Group, I am 
pleased to announce that Richard Smith will  
be joining the Group as CFO not later than  
2 January 2016. Our thanks to Steve 
Chamberlain for his contribution in this role, 
especially in the recent acquisition. Steve will 
be continuing with the Group after he steps 
down from the Board, initially focusing  
on supporting the integration of Teltronic.
 
I am confident that the Company has a strong 
future ahead.
Dr. John Hughes CBE Hon DSc
Chairman
6 July 2015 
02 Sepura plc Annual Report & Accounts 2015
