 Silence Therapeutics plc  
Annual report and financial statements 2015
02
www.silence-therapeutics.com
Non‑Executive	to	an	interim	Executive	
Chairman	role.	Happily,	Ali’s	family	
crisis	resolved	and	he	returned	to	the	
Company	in	September,	at	which	stage	
Dr	Riddell	chose	to	retire	from	the	Board	
and	I	was	appointed	in	his	place.	Since	
September,	we	have	been	pleased	to	
welcome	Alistair	Gray	to	the	Board	and	
to	Chair	the	Audit	Committee.	In	January	
2016,	Dr	Simon	Sturge	retired	from	
the	Board	following	his	appointment	
as	Chief	Operating	Officer	of	Merck	
Healthcare,	based	in	Darmstadt,	
Germany.	Ali	and	I	have	been	working	
closely	together	to	refine	our	strategy,	
determine	the	short‑term	goals	and	
to	recruit	excellent	people	to	drive	us	
to	meet	both	short‑term	and	strategic	
targets	of	a	balanced	product	pipeline	
taking	full	advantage	of	our	strong	
technology platform.
On	behalf	of	the	Board	of	the	Company,	
I would	like	to	thank	our	shareholders	for	
their	continued	support	and	input	to	the	
development	of	Silence	in	2015	and	into	
the	future.	As	a	Board,	we	are	committed	
to	maximising	the	value	of	the	Company	
and	hence	the	value	to	shareholders.	
Looking forward 
As	a	Board	we	are	excited	about	2016	
and	beyond,	as	we	look	to	translate	
our	preclinical	excellence	today	into	
clinical	results	and	products	in	the	
future.	We	look	forward	very	positively	
to	the	development	of	our	pipeline	and	
business,	and	to	translating	that	into	
growth	in	shareholder	value.
Dr Stephen Parker 
Non‑Executive	Chairman
29	April	2016
We have attracted 
significant levels of 
new funding, led by 
Invesco and Woodford, 
and well‑supported by 
existing investors.
Overview
2015	proved	to	be	an	eventful	year	
for	your	Company,	in	which	we	have	
undertaken	significant	restructuring	and	
strengthening	of	most	aspects	of	the	
Company,	from	the	Board	downwards.	
Most	notably,	we	have	attracted	
significant	levels	of	new	funding,	led	
by	Invesco	and	Woodford,	and	being	
well‑supported	by	existing	investors	
which,	for	the	first	time	in	the	Company’s	
history,	has	enabled	us	to	put	in	place	
longer‑term	goals	and	start	to	build	the	
necessary	structure	to	achieve	them.	The	
Phase	1/2a	trial	of	Atu027	in	pancreatic	
cancer	has	continued	to	run,	with	final	
data	becoming	available	in	April	2016.	
Our	IP	position	was	strengthened	
significantly	with	the	granting	of	a	
US	patent	giving	us	protection	for	
modifications	to	RNA	over	much	shorter	
base	lengths	than	previously;	we	
expect	that	this	development	will	lead	
to	a	significant	increase	in	outlicensing	
opportunities.
During	2015	we	restructured	the	head	
office	in	London,	moving	into	a	more	
modern	office	and	strengthening	several	
key	functions,	including	Finance	and	
Business	Development.	We	undertook	a	
significant	review	of	strategic	priorities	
and	research	strategy,	increasing	
resources	in	key	areas	in	the	field	of	
conjugation	chemistry	and	mRNA.	We	
continue	to	recruit	experienced	scientists	
in	these	fields	in	our	Berlin	laboratories	
and	we	have	made	significant	progress	
with	GalNAc‑conjugated	delivery	of	
siRNAs.	The	priority	is	to	apply	this	to	
build	a	broad	pipeline,	covering	delivery	
to	the	liver	as	well	as	our	existing	
strength	of	liposomal	delivery	to	the	
vascular	system	within	organs	such	as	
the	lung,	which	is	a	unique	position	in	
the	field.	
mRNA	therapeutics	is	an	extremely	
promising	prospect,	which	our	existing	
strengths	in	liposomal	delivery	make	us	
well‑suited	to	exploit.	We	are	starting	
to	see	good	progress	in	research	in	
this	field	and	are	hopeful	of	significant	
development	through	2016.
There	were	several	significant	
management	changes	in	the	period.	In	
July	2015	we	announced	that	our	Chief	
Executive,	Ali	Mortazavi,	was	obliged	to	
take	a	period	of	compassionate	leave	
and	that,	in	his	absence,	the	Chairman,	
Dr	Alastair	Riddell	would	switch	from	a	
2015 proved to be an eventful year for your Company, 
in which we have undertaken significant restructuring 
and strengthening of most aspects of the Company, 
from the Board downwards.
Chairman’s statement
