 24298.02     30 March 2016 2:38 PM      PROOF1
Chairman’s Statement
While 2015 was a challenging year for the Group, we 
made good progress on the Strategic initiatives and our 
infill acquisition programme.  
Going forward we are determined to get performance 
back on track by refocusing on sales, reducing our cost 
base and growing our value added businesses.
STRATEGY
Our goal is to be the leading specialist solutions provider 
to the construction industry. To achieve this we are 
focused on three key strategic priorities.
First, we are seeking to continuously improve our 
procurement function. The Group has made excellent 
progress over the last two years, but there is much more 
to do. This initiative is also gathering additional impetus 
through the appointment of our new Group Procurement 
Director, Ruxandra ispas, who is providing fresh thinking.
Second, we are reshaping our supply chain by adopting 
a two-step change strategy, with an ultimate goal of 
reducing our cost to serve by £50m. 
Finally, we are continuing to grow our value added 
sales, which currently account for 18% of sales. Offsite 
Construction and Air Handling will be important growth 
drivers of this category.
GOVERNANCE AND BOARD
As Chairman i am responsible for ensuring good corporate 
governance and that we continually aspire to meet the 
highest standards possible at SiG. Further details can be 
found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 59 
to 71.
Following the appointment of Andrea Abt as a Non-
Executive Director on 12 March 2015, i am pleased to 
report that we achieved our aim to reach 25% female 
representation among the Board’s membership.
As part of the Board succession plan, the Nominations 
Committee has reviewed the positions of Chris 
Geoghegan and Jonathan Nicholls.  
Having noted their significant experience and 
contributions to the Board, the Committee concluded that 
they be invited to serve for a further term of office until the 
May 2017 AGM, prior to which a search for new Non-
Executive Directors will take place.
OUR PEOPLE
On behalf of the Board and Shareholders i would like to 
thank our employees for their dedication and continued 
hard work during the year.
i would also like to welcome Christian Horn to SiG as its 
new Group Operations Director, a role which sits on the 
Group’s Executive Committee. Christian joined SiG in 
December 2015 and was previously Senior Vice President 
for Staples Europe.
DIVIDEND
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 2.91p per 
ordinary share. Taken together with the interim dividend 
of 1.69p per ordinary share, this provides a total dividend 
of 4.60p per ordinary share for the year (2014: 4.40p), an 
increase of 4.5%.
Going forward the Board remains committed to a 
progressive dividend policy while maintaining a dividend 
cover of 2-3x on an underlying basis over the medium-
term.
lES l IE VAN DE wAll E 
Chairman
 
       Determined to get 
performance back on track by 
refocusing on sales, reducing 
our cost base and growing our 
value added businesses
lES l IE VAN DE wAll E Chairman
www.sigplc.com Stock code: ShI
06
