 LEADING 
THE WAY
Chairman’s review
Throughout 2015, I’ve had the privilege 
of listening to Shire people as they talk 
about the future. I’ve heard the stories 
that are driving our business forward. 
I’ve also watched as one Shire team 
after another presented ideas and 
possibilities, often in novel, even moving 
ways. This is a passionate and highly 
promising organization. I see and 
hear this passion and promise in 
my daily interactions.
4 Shire Annual Report 2015 Our purpose as a company is to enable 
people with life-altering conditions to lead 
better lives. Our focus is on building 
long-term sustainable value for shareholders 
as a global biotechnology company while 
balancing the needs of all our stakeholders 
including patients, employees, partners, 
payers, physicians and regulators. We aim 
to be the world leader in rare diseases and 
a leading global biotechnology and as a 
result of our clear focus on innovation, 
efficiency, growth and people, we are well on 
our way to achieving this goal.
Looking ahead, our announced 
combination with Baxalta Incorporated 
(“Baxalta”), which at closing would create 
the world’s leading biotech company 
focused on rare diseases, and provide a 
platform for sustainable innovation, growth 
and value creation. This is an exciting time 
for Shire and Baxalta alike, and is great 
news for our current and future rare 
disease patients.
The Shire 2015 Annual Report provides 
details of our key activities for the year. 
In this letter I highlight those events and 
accolades that I believe demonstrate 
our leadership and our commitment to 
our patients. 
We have been successful in driving the 
business forward through original research, 
creative acquisitions and novel licensing 
agreements, advancing our innovative 
pipeline. In 2016, our pipeline will be 
comprised of 29 programs in clinical 
development, with 14 in Phase 3 or 
planned to enter Phase 3 in 2016. 
Completed acquisitions including 
NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (“NPS 
Pharma”), Dyax Corp. (“Dyax”), Foresight 
Biotherapeutics Inc. (“Foresight”), and 
Meritage Pharma, Inc. (“Meritage”), and 
new research partnerships such as those 
with Foundation Fighting Blindness and the 
Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, will help 
us make a real difference to the lives 
of patients.
2015 brought good news for the millions 
of adults in the US with Binge Eating 
Disorder (“BED”). With the Food and Drug 
Administration (“FDA”) approval of 
VYVANSE for the treatment of moderate 
to severe BED in adults, physicians now 
have an effective treatment for a widely 
unmet need.
We at Shire take a responsible, transparent 
and sustainable approach to our business. 
In 2015 we were once again confirmed as a 
constituent company in the FTSE4Good 
Index, which measures globally recognized 
standards for corporate responsibility. We 
were also ranked as the #2 “greenest” 
company in the world according to 
Newsweek magazine. This year we held 
our first Global Day of Service, raised 
awareness for rare diseases, improved 
access to our therapies, participated in 
industry-wide roundtables, presented new 
research at world conferences, and 
furthered the dialogue about patient health. 
I’d like to welcome the many individuals 
who have joined Shire around the world 
since the beginning of the year. They have 
joined a company with a strong identity 
and sense of purpose, and a high 
performance culture that rewards creativity, 
innovation and delivering results. The 
perspectives and experiences of these 
new colleagues will no doubt add new 
dimensions and depth to the innovation 
we are seeing across the business.
Shire also has great leadership. Our CEO, 
Flemming Ornskov, MD was named by 
Harvard Business Review in October as 
one of the 100 Best-Performing CEOs in 
the World. I would like to thank Flemming 
for his vision, leadership and exceptional 
dedication to the company. 
I’d also like to recognize the Board of 
Directors for their contributions, insights 
and rigorous approach in challenging and 
assessing Shire’s activities over the course 
of the year. In particular, I’d like to thank 
David Kappler, Deputy Chairman and 
Senior Independent Director, who will retire 
at the 2016 AGM, for his many years of 
exceptional service. 
In 2015, two Non-Executive Directors 
joined our Board — Olivier Bohuon, Chief 
Executive Officer at Smith & Nephew, plc, 
and Sara Mathew, who, until 2013, served 
as Chairman, President, and Chief 
Executive Officer of Dun & Bradstreet. 
Jeffrey Poulton also joined the Board this 
year on his promotion to Chief Financial 
Officer. You can read more about the 
Board in my corporate governance report 
on page 64.
We’ve had a remarkable year at Shire, and 
I’ve felt extraordinarily privileged to play a 
role in this company’s emergence as a true 
global leader. I wish to thank all of those 
who are making this company what it is — 
and what it will continue to become.
Susan Kilsby 
Chairman
We’ve had a 
remarkable year at 
Shire. We have been 
successful in driving 
the business forward 
through original 
research, creative 
acquisitions and novel 
licensing agreements.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
 Shire Annual Report 2015 5
