 DRIVING 
CHANGE
Chief Executive Officer’s review
January
Announce acquisition of NPS  
Pharma as further step in building  
a leading biotech
Positive response from European 
Decentralised Procedure for Elvanse 
Adult
®
 in adults with ADHD 
Receive FDA fast track designation 
for SHP609, Idursulfase-IT, the 
treatment of neurocognitive decline 
associated with Hunter syndrome 
 
 
Vyvanse becomes first and only 
treatment approved by the FDA for 
adults with moderate to severe 
Binge Eating Disorder
Our year in review
2015 has been a year of transformation. 
With our streamlined One Shire 
organization in place, we advanced our 
ambition to become a leading global 
biotechnology company.  We built category leadership, launched 
multiple products in our core therapeutic 
areas, greatly expanded our global footprint 
and strengthened our innovative pipeline, 
now the most robust in Shire’s history. We 
did all this while delivering excellent results, 
investing in future growth drivers and 
announcing several, game-changing deals.
Our achievements are grounded in our clear 
and focused strategy of growth, innovation, 
efficiency and people. In 2015, we made 
significant progress across each of these 
strategic drivers. These achievements 
reflect the contributions of our people who 
work passionately every day to help those 
with life-altering conditions to lead better 
lives, and to whom I am extremely grateful. 
Becoming a leading global 
biotechnology company
We are transforming into a fast-growing, 
leading global biotech with best-in-class 
products for patients with rare diseases and 
specialty conditions. We strive to become 
leaders within the categories where we have 
product offerings, which are Neuroscience, 
Gastrointestinal/Endocrinology, hereditary 
angioedema (“HAE”)/ lysosomal storage 
disorders (“LSDs”), and Ophthalmics. Rare 
Diseases are at the center of our strategy 
and the mindset we bring to our work every 
day. Today, approximately 45% of product 
sales come from rare diseases and biologics, 
with over 75% of our 29 R&D clinical 
programs in rare conditions. 
As we advance our portfolio, business 
development continues to play an important 
role. In 2015, we added promising rare 
disease assets and technologies through 
complimentary, highly strategic, mid-sized 
acquisitions. These bolt-on acquisitions 
benefit from our domain leadership, 
commercial and R&D expertise, and 
our proven abilities in integration and 
advancing assets through development 
to commercialization. I describe this as our 
“string of pearls” approach to transactions.
There were many times during 2015 
when we were able to put this into action. 
We started the year with the acquisition of 
NPS Pharma, adding Natpara and Gattex/
Revestive to our innovative portfolio of 
products, and supporting our GI franchise 
past the eventual loss of Lialda exclusivity. 
With the acquisition of Meritage, we 
acquired the global rights to Oral 
Budesonide Suspension (SHP621), for the 
treatment of adolescents and adults with 
eosinophilic esophagitis, a rare, chronic 
inflammatory GI disease, further bolstering 
our GI/IM portfolio.
Our acquisition of Foresight underscored 
our commitment to building a leadership 
position in ophthalmology, with the potential 
for SHP640 (formerly FST-100), if approved, 
to become the first agent to treat both viral 
and bacterial conjunctivitis.
The $6 billion acquisition of Dyax expands 
and extends our industry-leading portfolio 
in HAE, a rare, debilitating genetic 
inflammatory condition that causes episodes 
of swelling in the face, extremities and GI 
tract, and can be life threatening. With Dyax 
we bring into our portfolio DX-2930. If 
approved, this therapy has the potential to 
expand HAE-treated patients and achieve 
worldwide sales of up to $2 billion with 
exclusivity beyond 2030. 
As we add to our “string of pearls,” we have 
pursued transformational transactions 
with the potential to lead the industry. 
Our announced combination with Baxalta, 
pending shareholder and certain regulatory 
approvals, would create the global leader in 
rare diseases with a strong strategic fit and 
a leading, diversified portfolio. The combined 
company would have the ability to deliver 
an anticipated $20 billion in product sales 
by 2020, multiple $1+ billion disease 
franchises, and over 50 inline and pipeline 
rare disease products and programs, more 
than any other company. Assuming the 
necessary approvals, this transaction is 
expected to close in mid-2016.
Delivering growth through new launches 
and commercial excellence
This year we showed our launch 
capabilities with several new products 
successfully entering markets around the 
globe. We launched VYVANSE for 
moderate to severe BED in adults, and 
VYVANSE outperformed the adult attention 
deficit hyperactivity disorder (“ADHD”) 
market and grew 19% over the prior year. 
The recently launched NPS products, 
NATPARA® and GATTAX/REVESTIVE®, 
have shown early promise. Internationally, 
we achieved 25 in-market launches and 
expanded our international presence, with 
Shire medicines now available in 72 countries.
Throughout, we continued to execute across 
our core commercial business. Our HAE 
portfolio, CINRYZE and FIRAZYR, grew 
23% and 22%, respectively. In our GI 
franchise, LIALDA continued to gain 
market share and now represents 36% 
of the 5-ASA US market. 
March
Resubmit application to the US FDA 
for approval of lifitegrast for 
treatment of Dry Eye Disease in 
adults
Rare Disease research collaboration 
with Cincinnati Children’s Hospital 
February
Deliver record revenues and Non 
GAAP earnings per ADS in 2014,  
and enter 2015 with strongest-ever 
pipeline 
Complete acquisition of NPS 
Pharma 
Acquire Meritage Pharma
April
NATPARA launches in the US
Announce clear regulatory path forward  
for SHP465 for adults with ADHD 
SHP625 Phase 2 IMAGO trial did not 
meet the primary or secondary 
endpoints in Children with Alagille 
Syndrome
Jeff Poulton appointed  
Chief Financial Officer and  
joins Board of Directors
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
 Shire Annual Report 2015 7 Looking ahead, we will continue to prioritize 
investment in our future growth drivers. 
We are especially excited by the potential 
for leadership in Ophthalmics, with SHP640 
from Foresight and lifitegrast (SHP606) 
which has potential to be the only product 
approved in the US in the past decade 
indicated for the treatment of signs and 
symptoms of Dry Eye Disease (“DED”) 
in adults. Today, there are an estimated 
29 million people living with the symptoms 
of DED in the US. Only about half are 
diagnosed, and only a small fraction of 
these are treated. Following the positive 
results of OPUS-3, we have been 
working on advancing lifitegrast through 
the regulatory process by addressing the 
FDA’s complete response letter and 
resubmitted the New Drug Application 
(“NDA”) for lifitegrast on January 22, 2016. 
We expect to remain on track for potential 
US approval in 2016. 
Progressing our innovative pipeline — 
the most robust in our history
We entered 2016 with the strongest pipeline 
in Shire’s 30-year history, with 29 clinical 
development programs, including 14 in 
Phase 3 or planned to enter Phase 3 in 
2016. Just a few highlights from our Phase 
3 programs include SHP620 (maribavir) for 
CMV infection in transplant patients; 
SHP621 for Eosinophilic Esophagitis; and 
SHP609 for Hunter syndrome-intrathecal 
delivery (phase 2/3); all in areas of high 
unmet medical need.
Having worked for years in pediatrics, 
I am personally excited by the potential of 
SHP607 for the prevention of Retinopathy 
of Prematurity (“ROP”), a disorder of the 
retinal blood vessels in the eyes of 
premature infants weighing 2¾ pounds or 
less and typically born before 31 weeks of 
Our distinctive mix of 
complementary business 
units and capabilities
GI & Internal
Medicine
Ophthalmics
Neuroscience
Rare
Diseases 
June
Received preliminary results from an interim 
analysis of SHP625 INDIGO study, a 72 week 
open label Phase 2 study in PFIC
Receive European approval to use RESOLOR
®
 
in Men for the symptomatic treatment of Chronic 
Constipation
Announced appointment of Olivier Bohuon to 
Board of Directors 
Name Bill Mordan General Counsel and  
Corporate Secretary
August
Acquire Foresight Biotherapeutics 
Inc., boosting Ophthalmics portfolio
Propose combination with Baxalta
July
Vyvanse positive top-line results in 
maintenance of efficacy study in adults with 
moderate to severe Binge Eating Disorder
Announce second quarter earnings and 
increases full year Non GAAP diluted EPS
1
 
guidance to mid-to-high single digit growth 
Receive CHMP positive opinion in Europe  
for INTUNIV
®
SHP625 Phase 2 studies in two rare 
cholestatic liver indications did not meet 
primary endpoints
May
Announce new research agreement 
with Foundation Fighting Blindness 
1
  This is a Non GAAP financial measure. For reconciliation to US GAAP please see page 159.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
continued
8 Shire Annual Report 2015 gestation. ROP is a leading cause of visual 
loss in childhood and can lead to lifelong 
vision impairment and blindness. Shire is 
investigating SHP607, an experimental 
insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) protein 
replacement therapy, specifically to determine 
whether it may prevent ROP. Phase 2 results 
are expected in the second half of 2016. 
If successful, SHP607 will add to our 
growing category leadership in Ophthalmics.
Ensuring a streamlined, 
efficient organization
We continued to look critically at how we 
work and where we can improve our core 
processes and systems to do things 
better and faster. Much was achieved in 
this area over the past year. This includes 
consolidating our US operational 
headquarters in Massachusetts. We also 
worked to strengthen our manufacturing 
position through renegotiation of our 
agreement with Sanquin. We are now in 
a position to seek a second source of 
supply to boost production of CINRYZE, 
an important treatment for HAE.
Aligning and engaging our people 
We had amazing growth last year — 
hiring many new employees — reflecting 
our dynamism as an organization and 
the attractiveness of our culture: high 
performing, patient-focused, and one that 
rewards innovation and results. This year 
we integrated our new colleagues from 
NPS Pharma, adding to Shire’s deep 
expertise in rare diseases. We look forward 
to doing the same with our colleagues from 
Dyax now that the deal has been closed. 
Supporting our local communities and 
giving back has long been one of Shire’s 
key strengths and passions. This year, on 
October 2nd, we held our First Global Day 
of Service. More than 1,700 Shire employees 
donated 8,000 volunteer hours in more than 
20 locations around the world. Because 
of the positive feedback from employees 
and our community partners, plans are 
underway to hold our second Global Day 
of Service in 2016. Our corporate 
responsibility efforts also received more 
formal recognition in 2015, for example, 
through our continued inclusion on the 
FTSE4Good Index. 
Shaping what’s next 
In 2016, we mark the 30th anniversary of 
Shire. It was three decades ago, in 1986, 
that we opened our doors with our first 
product. Like many journeys, ours has not 
been a straight road. It’s had many twists 
and turns — and there will certainly be 
many more. This is the reality of our industry 
— with advances in science, and with shifts 
in the healthcare environment — the journey 
is never quite linear. But one thing that’s 
defined Shire since day one is its forward-
looking mindset. We are never complacent. 
Our journey for the past 30 years has been 
shaped by a shared focus on what’s next 
— on how we can be ahead of what’s 
needed or expected — to do things better 
and faster so we can meet the needs of our 
patients, our physicians, our employees 
and our business, not just today but also 
tomorrow. Throughout the years, we set 
bold aspirational goals and did what was 
needed to achieve them.
But of course, we’re not stopping there. 
We’re already looking ahead to what’s next 
for Shire — which is the opportunity we 
have to shape what’s next as a leading 
global biotech. 
As we look toward the next 30 years 
(and beyond), I want to express my 
appreciation and gratitude to our employees 
for the impact they have every day on 
the growth of our business — and most 
importantly to our patients who inspire us 
to keep pushing forward. 
I look forward to working with all of Shire’s 
stakeholders on shaping what’s to come.
Flemming Ornskov, MD, MPH 
Chief Executive Officer
November
Announce acquisition of  
Dyax Corp
September
Appoint Sara Mathew to Board of Directors
Receive European approval for INTUNIV as a Non-
stimulant ADHD treatment for Children and Adolescents
Appeals court affirms Vyvanse patents valid until 2023 
October
First Global Day of Service
CINRYZE receives FDA fast track designation for investigation in the 
treatment of Antibody Mediated Rejection (AMR) in patients 
receiving kidney transplants
Receive FDA Complete Response Letter for lifitegrast NDA 
OPUS-3 Phase 3 trial with lifitegrast meets primary  
and key secondary endpoints
December
Partner with CrowdMed  
to offer US employees  
an innovative digital 
crowdsourcing diagnostic 
service
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information
 Shire Annual Report 2015 9
