 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 10
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Simplifying our offer for greater results
Our rebrand reflects the additional future opportunities for SMS’s business, 
as the Company positions itself for the upcoming UK domestic smart meter 
exchange programme with its combined gas and electricity metering offering.
I am very pleased to report on the continued strong 
performance of the business for the year ended 
31 December 2015. 
Recurring income now represents 56% of our total revenue 
compared with 53% of total revenue in 2014, as we see the 
continued benefits of building up recurring income streams 
from our long-term contracts from a diversified blue-chip 
customer base. 
Operational review
During 2015 our gas and electricity meter portfolios 
increased by 19% and 142% respectively. The gas meter 
portfolio increased from 607,000 to 723,000 at the year 
end. The number of electricity meters rose from 12,000 
to 29,000 at year end. Our gas and electricity metering 
and data assets rose by over 20% in 2015. 
Our two key financial metrics both demonstrated substantial 
growth in the year. Our revenue increased by 27% and our 
long-term recurring revenue for gas meter recurring rent 
by 27%. The electricity meter recurring rent doubled from 
£0.6m to £1.25m. Gas data recurring income also doubled, 
while electricity data grew by just over 28%. 
These metrics are core to our long-term annuity financial model 
and the recurring rental revenue is based on the ownership and 
future purchase of meter assets. Once installed, these meters 
will be on SMS’s long-term index-linked contracts and provide 
recurring revenue for the lifetime of the assets, expected 
to be 25 years.
Industrial and commercial meters
2015 has been another successful year and we were 
delighted to announce a number of new contracts and 
contract extensions with major customers during the year.
We nearly doubled our I&C gas metering portfolio to 114,000 
from 65,000 meters in 2014 and grew our customer base 
during 2015 to a point where SMS contracts are in place 
with over 80% of the total I&C meter market in the UK 
with national and multinational clients.
HIGHLIGHTS
 X Increase in recurring revenues by 33%
 X Increase in meter and data assets to just 
under 1 million
 X Domestic smart metering – signed five new 
framework agreements
 X Contracts in place with companies 
representing over 80% of the total 
I&C market and over 40% of the 
Domestic market 
 X Underlying earnings per share* 
increased by 67%
 X Final dividend of 2.20p per ordinary share
*  Underlying earnings per share is profit after taxation 
but before exceptional items and intangible amortisation, 
divided by the weighted average number of ordinary 
shares in issue. Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 11
STRATEGIC REPORT 1
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3
The I&C electricity metering business has also witnessed 
more than a doubling of its metering portfolio to 29,000 
from 12,000 meters in 2014 following the introduction of 
new contracts with BES, Total Gas & Power, Opus Energy 
and DONG Energy. The electricity business has also been 
successful in delivering new contracts with existing and 
new customers in order to satisfy increasing market demand 
for half-hourly metering services following the introduction 
of new Ofgem regime which will see more than 160,000 
meters move to the half-hourly market by April 2017. These 
industry changes provide opportunities for increased meter 
ownership and in particular for increased recurring data 
revenue due to the increased demand for half-hourly data.
UK domestic smart market opportunity 
SMS will provide UK domestic smart meters as part 
of the government’s domestic smart meter programme 
overseen by the Department of Energy and Climate Change. 
The programme requires domestic energy supply companies 
to provide all of their customers with a smart meter in homes 
and small businesses (larger businesses are subject to separate 
regulations and are already using smart meters) across the 
UK by 2020. In total, this represents 22 million domestic 
gas and 27 million domestic electricity smart meters to 
be installed, requiring an approximate £6.5bn aggregate 
capital investment. 
This new market presents an important opportunity for 
SMS to extend its current business model, based on owning 
and installing assets in the I&C and domestic market, and to 
replicate this with the installation of domestic smart meters 
in the rollout between now and 2020. 
Gas and electricity suppliers must appoint a meter asset 
manager (MAM) and SMS is one of only four companies 
in the smart domestic market. We are very well positioned 
for this new market, given our business model.
SMS has the ability to fund substantial growth of this 
new market with, inter alia, a £150m term facility from a club 
of banks. We firmly believe that the nascent domestic smart 
meter market will prove attractive to our funders. 
While the new market presents a considerable opportunity, 
there are also challenges. There will, in all likelihood, be new 
entrants and, while the government has committed to the 
rollout timetable, given its scale, it would not be surprising 
to see some delay.
Domestic meters
Over the period, we grew our domestic gas meter portfolio 
by 12% from 542,000 to 609,000 by the end of the year. 
Our combined gas and electricity full service offering has 
both strengthened our position and our opportunity in the 
domestic meter market, ideally positioning the business for 
the domestic smart meter rollout programme in the UK.
ADM™
The ADM™ device is SMS’s advanced metering solution 
which allows for remote meter reading on a half-hourly basis 
and has been designed to meet our customer requirements. 
SMS continues to deploy the ADM™ devices in the UK. 
In 2015 the number of ADM™ installations increased to 
74,000, up from 41,000 in 2014, and we remain confident that 
our ADM™ device technology has a broad range of potential 
applications in gas, electricity, water and LPG markets.
Business summary 
2015 has been a successful year and our business is strong, 
notably our I&C installation business and the recurring rental 
income. SMS continues to deliver operational and financial 
growth and along with the significant opportunities in the 
domestic smart metering market we remain confident in the 
outlook for the business and market development in 2016. 
Alan Foy
Chief Executive Officer
