 Smith & Nephew’s transformation  
is delivering stronger growth.
A strong performance, demonstrating our  
actions are translating into positive outcomes
Dear Shareholder ,
I am delighted to present Smith & 
Nephew’s 2015 Annual Report. During 
the year the Group made good financial 
and strategic progress. The increase 
in underlying revenue growth, trading 
profit margin and adjusted earnings 
year-on-year reflect management’s 
actions to improve both our commercial 
performance and operational efficiency.
Revenue was $4.6 billion, up 4% on an 
underlying basis before adjusting for currency 
and the benefits from acquisitions. Trading 
profit was $1.1 billion. The trading profit margin 
was 23.7%, up 80bps on the previous year . 
Adjusted earnings per share were 85.1¢, 
up 2%.
The Board is proposing a final dividend for the 
year of 19.0¢ per share, giving a total dividend 
distribution for 2015 of 30.8¢, up 4% year-on-
year and slightly ahead of earnings growth, 
reflecting our confidence in the business.
Strategy
We have continued to pursue the same 
strategy as in previous years, building a strong 
position in Established Markets, focusing 
on Emerging Markets, innovating for value, 
simplifying and improving our operating model 
and supplementing organic growth with 
acquisitions. The Board’s oversight ensures 
that management remains focused on these 
strategic priorities and that investments are 
made in line with these objectives
In 2015, the Board has continued our 
programme of understanding the business 
more deeply. We scheduled a number of 
sessions at the Board meetings held in 2015 
looking at different aspects of our business, 
including reviews of our European business 
with a focus on Iberia, our Emerging Markets 
business with a focus on China, and the 
development of products for the mid-tier . Our 
Board site visit to Durban, South Africa gave 
us insights into one of our oldest and fastest 
growing overseas businesses.
Our annual Strategy Review in September 
included presentations and discussions on a 
wide range of different areas of our business. 
This meeting underpins our confidence 
in management’s strategic priorities and 
future progress.
Members of the Board also attend significant 
management meetings. For instance, during 
2015, I attended the Managing Director’s 
meeting and Robin Freestone attended the 
CEO led meeting for top talent. We also attend 
investor presentations.
Corporate governance
As a Board, we feel strongly that good 
corporate governance lies at the heart of a well-
run Company. Openness and transparency, 
accountability and responsibility should run 
through everything that we do, both as a Board 
and throughout the business as a whole. The 
Board and I aim to set the tone at the top which 
pervades throughout the organisation.
Later in this report, as well as the standard 
corporate governance disclosures we are 
required to make, you will find reports from Ian 
Barlow, Michael Friedman, myself and Joseph 
Papa, the Chairmen of our Board Committees 
on the activities of these committees 
throughout the year (pages 68 to 79). These 
reports explain where we focused our work in 
2015 and our plans for 2016. 
Risk management and  
the Viability Statement
During 2015, we spent time considering what 
work would need to be done to make us 
feel comfortable in making the new Viability 
Statement. Both the Board and the Audit 
Committee received papers from the Group 
Risk Officer during the year and we discussed 
risk in depth at our Annual Strategy Meeting 
in September . 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS
 
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.smith-nephew.com 
> > <
2
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS
 
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.smith-nephew.com 
> > <
