 STRATEGIC REPORT
Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 08
Chairman’s statement
Celebrating 20 years in operation
2015 is a special year for SMS as we celebrate 20 years in operation and a 
rebranding of the business, bringing all of our Group subsidiaries under the single 
SMS brand. We are delighted to be reporting another strong set of results in our 
20th year in business.
Review of the year
2015 has been a year of continued progress in our business, 
notably with the acquisition last year of UPL (now SMS ES) and 
continued growth and expansion during our 20th anniversary 
year. We also completed the rebranding of the SMS business, 
bringing all Group subsidiaries under the single SMS brand 
and setting out a simplified integrated gas and electricity 
offering to clients. 
Following the rebrand, we now operate three divisions 
under the single SMS plc brand: Asset Installation, Asset 
Management and Energy Management, with gas and 
electricity service offerings across all three divisions. 
In the first half of the year, the Asset Management division 
signed an agreement for the provision and ownership 
of electricity meters and data management services for an 
initial order of 5,000 meters with Total Gas & Power Limited, 
an existing customer of SMS’s Asset Installation business. 
This contract win followed a strong end to 2014 where we 
won contracts with BES Utilities, British Gas Business, 
DONG Energy (UK) Limited and Opus Energy, all of which 
now benefit from our integrated offering across both gas 
and electricity. 
Our business
SMS has delivered double-digit growth during the year 
across all segments of the business with strong recurring 
income in our gas and electricity business and a substantial 
increase in our gas meter portfolio. 
We have a strong order book to install and own gas and 
electricity meters in the I&C and domestic market and we 
will continue to fill that order book over the next few years. 
This will continue to generate an asset-backed, high-quality 
annuity stream that will provide high visibility of revenues. 
We continue to develop a strong market position in the UK 
smart metering market with a focus on the cross-selling of 
services between gas and electricity customers by providing 
an integrated suite of services across all three divisions.
SMS also has significant additional growth opportunities 
arising from the UK government initiative mandating the 
installation of a smart meter in every home and small business 
across the UK by 2020. This presents a significant market 
opportunity with a substantial proportion of an estimated 
1.6 million gas meters and 2.1 million electricity meters in 
the UK I&C market to be exchanged for a smart metering 
solution by the target date of 2020. There is added potential 
of a rollout of some 22 million gas meters and 27 million 
electricity meters in the UK domestic market within 
that period. 
HIGHLIGHTS
 X Celebrated 20 years in operation
 X Rebranded under single SMS brand 
 X Completion of strategic acquisitions Smart Metering Systems plc
Annual report and accounts 2015 09
STRATEGIC REPORT 1
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
2
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3
Strategy
Our medium-term strategy is to increase the run rate 
with our customers and continue to grow the meter 
asset portfolio alongside targeting of the new I&C 
and domestic smart meter market. 
Our priority in 2016 and beyond is to focus on four key 
strategic areas, reflecting the opportunity of the growing 
domestic smart meter market is to:
 X continue to install and own gas meters and data 
contracts and maximise the contracted order book 
in the I&C and domestic meter market organically 
with existing customers and through new contracts; 
 X drive recurring rental income from the I&C market; 
 X target the significant domestic smart meter market 
opportunity in the UK based on our proven business 
model and established market position; and
 X increase levels of business with, and services provided 
to, key gas and electricity suppliers, with a focus on 
cross-selling between gas and electricity across 
our suite of services. 
People and systems 
Our people have been instrumental in driving the business 
forward and in the successful integration of UPL and also 
the rebranding of the expanded business. 
Equally important in terms of operational performance 
is our IT systems and compliance management work with 
our customers, the gas and electricity suppliers. These 
are integral to the way in which we deliver our dual fuel 
metering service and achieve customer satisfaction 
and build relationships of trust. 
We are excited to be driving forward our strategic vision, 
values and culture through our enlarged team and 
strengthened senior management. 
Dividend
We announced a progressive dividend policy in our interim 
results and increased our interim dividend by 17% to 1.1p. 
SMS is delighted to announce a proposed final cash dividend 
of 2.2p for the year ended 31 December 2015. In addition to 
the interim dividend of 1.1p, this will make a total dividend of 
3.3p. The final dividend will be paid on 2 June 2016 to those 
shareholders on the register (record date) on 29 April 2016 
with an ex-dividend date of 28 April 2016.
Outlook
The team, under Alan Foy’s leadership, has continued to 
deliver on SMS’s strategy and operational plans and SMS 
is ideally positioned to maintain our competitive advantage 
and continue to make progress on its strategy. We have 
seen a strong start to 2016 with five framework agreements 
with independent energy suppliers in the domestic smart 
meter market. We have also made important strategic 
acquisitions to control our installation capacity for the 
delivery of our customer contracts in all our markets. 
We remain confident on the outlook for 2016 and view 
the future of the business and market development as 
highly promising. 
Paul Dollman
Non-executive Chairman
