 2015 was a good year
Dear Shareholder ,
Smith & Nephew delivered an improved 
performance in 2015 through focused 
innovation, better commercial execution 
and greater efficiency. We began to reap 
the benefits of our investments and 
operational improvements across the 
Group as we continued to deliver against 
our strategic priorities.
A stronger commercial 
performance
Geographically, we drove growth in all of our 
regions in 2015. In our Established Markets we 
delivered 5% growth in the United States, our 
largest market, a significant improvement on 
the previous year . We successfully stabilised 
our European business which delivered a 
better outturn year-on-year , and our Australia, 
New Zealand and Japan region delivered 
good growth, led by the Advanced Wound 
Management businesses.
In the Emerging Markets we delivered 11% 
revenue growth in 2015 despite the slow-down 
in China. Whilst we expect growth in China 
to remain below previous levels in the near 
term, it remains a very attractive market and 
we are committed to building our business 
here. We continued to successfully deliver 
strong revenue growth across the rest of the 
Emerging Markets. 
Global franchise highlights in 2015 included the 
performance of Sports Medicine, which was 
strengthened by the ArthroCare acquisition. 
The Advanced Wound Management 
businesses delivered a significantly better 
outcome following new management initiatives. 
Orthopaedic Reconstruction grew ahead of the 
market driven by our Knee Implant franchise. 
These strong results demonstrate the 
anticipated positive effects of our actions 
coming through across the Group. Where  
we have invested to improve existing 
businesses we are beginning to reap 
the benefits.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
4
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS
 
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.smith-nephew.com 
> > < We are further strengthening our commercial 
platform by aligning under a newly created role 
of Chief Commercial Officer tasked with driving 
commercial excellence across the organisation 
globally. We are also bringing all of our US 
Orthopaedic Reconstruction, Sports Medicine, 
Trauma and Advanced Wound Management 
businesses under one leader , completing 
the roll-out of our ‘single managing director’ 
model globally.
Focused on innovation 
We continue to innovate for value. Through our 
Research and Development (‘R&D’) strategy 
we deliver pioneering products and services, 
and drive innovation across the markets we 
serve. In 2015, we reiterated our commitment to 
innovation by announcing a single global R&D 
organisation, to be led by a new President of 
Global R&D, reporting to me.
We launched many new products in 2015 
and made good progress with our innovative 
business models, including Syncera
◊
, our value 
solution for orthopaedic reconstruction. We 
have a strong new product line-up for this year . 
With increased focus on R&D we will apply 
more resource to the development of disruptive 
products and services that increasingly define 
Smith & Nephew and will help drive our 
success in the future.
Successful acquisition track record
Smith & Nephew has established a successful 
acquisition track record in recent years. 
With Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, acquired 
in 2012, our third year return on capital has 
exceeded our weighted average cost of capital, 
despite certain issues we had to address 
with regard to facilities acquired. ArthroCare, 
acquired in 2014, is performing in-line with our 
expectations and we are ahead of our plan to 
deliver $85 million of synergies by 2017 .
In 2015, we continued to invest in acquisitions 
that provide opportunities to supplement our 
organic growth, strengthening our technology 
and product portfolios and our Emerging 
Markets business. Blue Belt Technologies, 
announced in October 2015, has given us 
a leading position in the fast-growing area 
of robotics-assisted orthopaedic surgery. In 
Russia we acquired a trauma and orthopaedics 
distribution business that includes mid-tier 
manufacturing. In Colombia, one of the largest 
economies in Latin America, we acquired our 
distributor for orthopaedic reconstruction, 
trauma and sports medicine products. 
Proud of our heritage
Smith & Nephew is 160 years old. From our 
roots in Hull, UK, we have become a global 
business that is proud to support healthcare 
professionals in their daily efforts to improve 
their patients’ lives in more than 100 countries.
Our longevity is due in large part to the 
excellence of our employees. As I visit our sites 
and meet our teams I am constantly impressed 
by their integrity and dedication to our core 
values of innovation, trust and performance. 
I thank them all for their work. I know we 
were all proud when our commitments to 
act sustainably and responsibly were again 
recognised by the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones 
Sustainability indices.
Excited by our prospects 
Whilst we are pleased with our progress in 
2015, it was just one step on our journey. I am 
confident that we will continue to build an ever 
more successful company, a medical device 
company that is truly like no other . 
Yours sincerely,
Olivier Bohuon
Chief Executive Officer
>
  O U R P E RF ORM A N C E 
ON PAGES 12 TO 13
TRADING PROFIT MARGIN
1,2
+80bps
2011 
22.5
2012 
23.3
2013 
22.7
2014 
22.9
2015 
23.7
REVENUE
1
$4.6bn
+4%
2011 
4,270
 2012 
4,137
2013 
4,351
2014 
4,617
2015 
4,634
1 The underlying percentage increases/decreases are after adjusting for the effects 
of currency translation and the inclusion of the comparative impact of acquisitions 
and exclusion of disposals.
2 This is a non-GAAP financial measure. Explanations of non-GAAP financial measures 
are provided on pages 177 to 178.
5
OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE OUR FINANCIALS
 
SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2015 www.smith-nephew.com 
> > <
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
