 3
Job no.12255 Date 30/06/2006 Proof 03
Chairman’s Statement
In my first year as Chairman, the Group has continued the
process of building a substantial portfolio of equity release
assets. 
Investments
Our portfolio grew by 10.3% from £46.6m to £51.4m during the
year. Purchases came almost entirely from new home reversions
arranged by our associate, Home & Capital Trust Limited. In May
2006, we completed the purchase of a portfolio of 112 shared
equity loans for £3.2m, to give us a good start to the current
year. We are continuing to implement a balanced investment
strategy of acquiring both new and secondary market assets.
During the year our net assets per share (diluted for warrants and
options) grew by 4.0% from 331.5 pence to 344.6 pence.
Embedded value per share increased by 6.3% from 498.8 pence
to 530.2 pence.
Financial performance
Earnings per share, based on historical profits (after revaluation
transfers), our principal yardstick for measuring profit
performance, increased by 42.3% from 8.71 pence to 12.43
pence. The main reason for this growth was the increase in our
profit on the sale of equity release assets from £1.61m to
£2.94m. This excellent result reflects the success of the
investment policy we have been pursuing over a number of
years, which has achieved a high proportion of acquisitions in the
secondary market, where the maturity profile tends to be more
rapid than for new reversions.
Our associate, Home & Capital Trust Limited, has expanded its
activities following a capital injection, continues to trade profitably
and is providing us with an increasing flow of new reversions.
Dividends
In the last year we increased our annual dividend by 8.0% from
2.50 pence per share to 2.70 pence per share, in two equal half-
yearly payments. We are increasing our first interim dividend in
the current year by 7.4% from 1.35 pence to 1.45 pence per
share. Whilst continuing to give priority to net asset performance,
our policy is to seek to provide steadily increasing annual
dividends where circumstances permit.
Industry development
We continue to play an active role in the development of the
home reversion product within the equity release industry. The
main legislation has now been passed to enable home reversions
to be regulated by the FSA. Through Graeme Marshall, our Chief
Executive, we are actively involved in the consultation process
and expect regulation to be implemented in 2007. Regulation
should boost both consumers’ and intermediaries’ confidence in
home reversion plans and thus provide a significant boost to this
sector of the equity release market in the two to three years
following implementation. 
Outlook 
The changes now taking place in the equity release market will
bring both challenges and opportunities to the Group. I am
confident that we are equipped to meet the challenges and that
we are in a good position to take advantage of the growth and
other developments in the industry. Sovereign continues to be
the only specialist vehicle through which investors can participate
in the equity release market through shares which can be traded. 
I am delighted that Robert Lo, my predecessor as Chairman,
who has been a director since inception, remains as a non-
executive director. We continue to benefit from his contribution to
the Board. During his six years as Chairman he oversaw a
transformation of the Group from a small BES company, through
a number of private and public acquisitions, to an AIM listing. We
will be seeking to achieve further substantial progress in the next
few years. 
Paul Spencer
Chairman
30 June 2006
“We are continuing to implement a
balanced investment strategy of
acquiring both new and secondary
market assets.”
