 Chairman’s Statement
Overview
6
I am delighted to present an excellent set of results for the year ended 2012.
the long-term benefits of the acquisition of Retail Profile, which I alluded to last year, together 
with growth in the core business, are readily apparent from the dramatically improved 
performance from almost every aspect of the business.  At a time of increasing uncertainty and 
general despondency in the UK retail sector, this is an unashamedly positive and upbeat report. Annual Report and Accounts for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012 Annual Report and Accounts for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012
7
the Group secured notable contract wins in the UK 
with two of the country’s largest publicly traded owners 
of shopping centres, land Securities and Intu. Giving the 
Group exclusive promotional contracts for the first time, 
and making it the clear market leader in the UK. It now 
has exclusive promotional or retail contracts in 34 of the 
top 50 UK shopping centres and traded with 88 of the top 
100 during the year, which helped increase revenue from 
UK promotional activity by 34%.  the best locations in the 
best centres, together with the launch of S&P+ limited, will 
continue to drive improved performance from one of the 
core strands of the business.
the German business is now firmly established and 
delivering impressive growth as the locally based team of 27 
people in our new office in Hamburg continues to increase 
sales from the core portfolio of ECE shopping centres, 
with promotional revenue up by 61%. towards the end of 
2012 they secured a major new exclusive contract with 
MEC Metro, which will sustain this growth and reinforce 
the dominance of SpaceandPeople in the German market. 
the investment in new mobile kiosks and their roll-out to 
more centres has resulted in a 124% increase in revenue 
from German retail licensing.
All of this translates to an excellent set of results. 
FINANCIAl RESUlt S
Starting with the financial highlights, there was a 22% 
growth in Group revenue to £13.06m and a 37% increase 
in Group operating profit to £2.37m.  
there was a 39% increase in basic (after non-recurring 
costs) non-diluted EPS to 8.50p from 6.13p in 2011. 
Mindful of the significant opportunities available from 
further investment in the business, the Board has proposed 
that the dividend is increased at a slightly lower rate than 
the increase in EPS in 2012.
Notwithstanding further investment in overseas markets, 
S&P+ limited and additional sales, compliance and support 
staff, the Group ended the year on a secure financial 
footing, with a net cash improvement of £869k during the 
year and £2.02m of cash on the balance sheet at the year 
end.  the Group also has a flexible borrowing facility of 
£2.5m with lloyds tSB Group that provides the ability to 
fund its future growth from existing banking arrangements.
PEOPlE
None of this would be possible without a dedicated 
and committed workforce and I would like to thank the 
senior management team and staff for their sterling efforts 
throughout the year.  there have been no changes at Board 
level this year and the average headcount has increased 
from 81 to 99. 
DIVIDEND
Recognising the excellent progress made by the Group, 
your Board is proposing a dividend of 3.50p per share, an 
increase of 21% on last year, payable on 26
th
 April 2013 to 
all shareholders on the register on 5
th
 April 2013.
OUtlOOK
SpaceandPeople continues to add new venues to the 
service and now represents over 700 venues in the UK 
and Germany, an increase of over 100 on 2011 with a 
combined footfall of over 70 million customers a year.
Although one can never be complacent and must always be 
alert to external challenges, the figures are testament to 
the strength and diversity of the business and the Group is 
extremely well positioned to deliver further improvements 
in 2013.  
David Henderson-williams 
Chairman
22 March 2013
