 8
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Review
the premise of SpaceandPeople is based upon the fact that venue owners have sought to improve 
returns on their assets, however building new venues or increasing rents can be difficult. Previously, 
property owners used general in-house staff to generate revenues by encouraging local businesses 
into their space to promote products and services. this tended to be an ad-hoc and reactive 
process and there was no information available to promoters to incentivise them to make use of 
this opportunity.  SpaceandPeople identified the opportunity that was available to promoters to 
meet their potential customers face to face and the fact that this was of great value to them. they 
also enabled venues to be more structured in how they dealt with promoters and gave them a 
better understanding of the value of their space in this regard. From small beginnings in 2001, we 
now represent over 700 venues, facilitating over 10,000 promotions a year in venues ranging from 
prime shopping centres to retail parks and train stations in four different countries as a result of 
being able to facilitate the use of high footfall space as a medium to transact business.
One of SpaceandPeople’s key skills is in understanding the value and type of user for any space at 
any time in any venue, then executing that understanding through the marketing and selling of that 
public space. this is usually done on a revenue share basis with the venue, so we only make money 
if they make money, essentially making our service free to buyers. 9
Annual Report and Accounts for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012
Since inception, our relationships with venues have 
become more sophisticated, with longer term contracts 
of increased value to all parties.  As the first company to 
create this business model, we have innovated constantly so 
that property owners now have a range of online analytics 
and measurement tools which allow them to understand 
the value and utilisation of their common areas.
these spaces are not utilised only for promotions but also 
retailing. the purchase of Retail Profile Europe in 2010 by 
SpaceandPeople enabled venue owners to amalgamate 
their commercialisation into a one stop shop. the 
combined knowledge of both companies and active venue 
space management has also enabled us to help them to 
plan their overall long-term strategy for their space.
GROwtH AREAS
In order to help grow the number of experiential marketing 
events that take place on our clients’ spaces, we need to 
make those parties who are responsible for booking events 
aware of the benefits of this opportunity. Media agencies 
control all the Above the line (A tl) advertising budgets 
(estimated to be £15 billion in the UK last year), however 
uptake by them of experiential campaigns in venues has so 
far been slow. this is due to our industry not being ready 
to support them by providing meaningful and transparent 
data, or making the service easy to purchase. to address 
this need, we along with media buying specialists, have 
invested in S&P+ limited. this company will talk to the 
major media agencies and provide them with the resource 
to include experiential marketing in their strategic decision 
making and budget setting. they will also be supported by 
a web buying portal to facilitate the purchasing of all the 
fundamental building blocks of an experiential campaign: 
logistics, staff, creative, accommodation and tailored 
training packages. the objective is to show agencies and 
brands that experiential marketing in our clients’ venues 
is an essential and cost effective way of promoting a huge 
number of businesses, products and services.
INVEStMENt
2012 saw significant investment in the German mobile kiosk 
roll-out, with the number of units in operation increasing 
from 48 to 99 units in three regions; a fantastic effort by 
the team. Shopping centres in particular are raising their 
game regarding visitor experience and SpaceandPeople 
has responded by developing ground breaking new retail  
unit designs, new approaches for pop-up shops and 
training schemes to ensure that we play a key part in this 
improvement.
to increase the efficiency of the business, we have created 
an automated business intelligence platform. this allows 
managers to have a dashboard of key, real time data that 
they can share with venues and promoters. this investment 
is on-going and we will roll-out new products that support 
and streamline our management of venues during 2013.
 
StRENGtH AND StABIlIty
Diversification of our client base and revenue streams has 
been a key strategic aim of the business. Having revenue 
streams from a number of countries and different product 
types allows us to deal with specific local issues while also 
enabling us to deliver major cross border campaigns for 
customers. this has resulted in us delivering over £30 
million in gross turnover for the first time in 2012 with 
further growth expected in 2013. Retail licensing income is 
set to double in 2013 in Germany, the biggest retail market 
in Europe with an expanding retail property sector, and 
European promotions are growing at a similar pace.
the only missed opportunity in 2012 has been India where 
the business has had a mixed year. the development of the 
kiosks selling MacV sunglasses has been a great success, 
with 7 kiosks operating in Mumbai, Hyderabad and 
Chennai. Planned expansion in 2013 is for another 7 units. 
However, the promotions business of SpaceandPeople 
India has suffered in the slowing Indian economy. the UK 
business found in 2009 that marketing spend in difficult 
economic times is one of the first items in many budgets 
to be cut, however, the promotional budgets in many sales 
departments remained unaffected.  As in the UK, the Indian 
business has now reorganised, strengthened its local sales 
teams and started selling to Sales Directors as well as 
Marketing Directors.  I am pleased to say, although not out 
of the woods yet, the promotional business is making good 
progress in the first quarter of 2013.
the most significant development of the business, in my 
opinion, was that global brands such as Samsung, Vw , 
Microsoft, Skoda and Nokia simultaneously launched 
products using SpaceandPeople’s offices in Germany, India 
and the UK. I see this as the initial step in developing the 
strategic use of experiential marketing as a media with 
SpaceandPeople managed venues being the preferred 
locations.
the first quarter of 2013 has started very positively and 
we look forward to another year of success.
Matthew Bending
Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2013 10 11
Annual Report and Accounts for the 12 months ended 31 December 2012
