 06 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Focus on leadership  
and effectiveness
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Mark Rogerson MBE
Chief Executive Officer
Overview
Speedy has achieved a great deal this year, especially 
given that a number of legacy issues have been much more 
challenging than originally expected. To have delivered a result 
ahead of market expectations is a good achievement.
Following my appointment in January 2014, I set out a three-
point turnaround plan: to fix the business, improve operational 
performance, and transform the company over the medium-
term with the aim of delivering sustainable profit growth. 
Fixing the business meant principally addressing five key 
issues: stabilising the Middle East; returning the Group to 
growth; expediting the delivery of our Network Optimisation 
Programme; delivering a new IT and MI system; and developing 
a new cultural environment where safety, governance and 
compliance, service, and employee conduct and ethics are  
our priority: 
 > we are pleased to have fully exited the general hire market in 
the Middle East and to have not only achieved a break even 
position in the Oil & Gas Services Business, but to have also 
built enterprise value. 
 > in the UK and Ireland we recorded increases in Revenue 
and EBITA before exceptional costs of 7.1% and 14.4% 
respectively. We secured a significant number of new 
contracts during the period and revenues from the Group’s 
Strategic and Major accounts (generating some 51% of total 
revenues) rose by 18%. 
 > we have delivered the planned improvements to our UK 
network ahead of the scheduled timeline, successfully 
implemented a new IT system, and have made significant 
progress in establishing a new culture across the business. 
These achievements are a great credit not only to the wider 
management team but to all our people throughout the 
business who have frequently had to operate under stretching 
and challenging conditions. 
We have now commenced the journey to improve our business 
further targeting three specific areas in the short-term: growing 
our core hire revenue; optimising our assets; and creating  
cost efficiencies.
Looking to the future, we have identified three areas to focus 
on within our transformation agenda: broadening our service 
offering to our largest customers; reinventing the Express 
network; and meeting customer demand through more demand 
led CapEx allocation and targeted growth.    Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic report
“ I am wholly convinced about the significant 
potential of Speedy, not only to be the 
market leader in our industry, but also  
to build shareholder value.”
We have also continued a number of initiatives including our 
‘Own City’ campaigns, which have driven revenue performance 
in key cities primarily through meeting the demand from the 
major projects of our Strategic and Major customers. However, 
it is evident that Speedy’s previous strategy of moving away 
from the local markets comprising 50,000+ Regional/Local 
customers (whist retaining the infrastructure and cost base 
to support this market) needs to be addressed. We are now 
starting to re-engage with this customer base through  
targeted marketing campaigns. However, this is no small task. 
Although it will take time to reverse the decrease we have seen 
in market share, this does represent a significant opportunity 
for the future.
Network Optimisation Programme 
The programme to reconfigure the backbone of the Group’s 
national network and logistics capabilities into an integrated 
distribution model was fully overhauled during the year. 
We have incorporated a new ‘National Distribution Centre’ 
(NDC) into the programme and re-profiled our Multi Service 
Centre (MSC) footprint, enabling us to accelerate and deliver 
the programme well ahead of the original schedule. This was 
absolutely essential to provide much needed improvements  
in our Engineering function, to enable us to begin to operate  
in a modern, cost-effective manner and drive cost benefits.
Our new NDC located in Tamworth will serve as the central hub 
for overnight distribution to our UK Multi Service Centres. This 
will ensure that the right products are distributed on time to 
our network of Superstores and Express Stores, while at the 
same time achieving greater efficiencies by closely aligning our 
fleet capability with the national network so that we can deliver 
our products to our customers faster and at lower cost. 
During the year we opened five new Multi Service Centres and 
seven new Superstores, the end result being a much improved 
network comprising of a new National Distribution Centre, eight 
supporting Multi Service Centres and 38 Superstores which 
now form the backbone of our operational network. Those who 
have seen first-hand the work we have completed here will 
have witnessed a very real transformation in our business. To 
have executed this redesigned programme within 12 months 
has been an exceptional achievement and a great credit to 
everybody involved. 
IT & Management Information System
Our IT system had not been upgraded for nine years, and 
establishing a much improved IT system was an urgent and 
long overdue priority. We have had to overcome some very 
significant operational and management issues. However, we 
now have in place a new system which is providing us with 
much greater levels of transparency and granularity of data 
Major progress in delivering our three-point  
‘FIT’ turnaround plan 
Fixing the business
Middle East
We announced last November the completion of our  
review of the Middle East operations with a view to further 
de-risking the business and stemming losses. It was clear 
that the continued under-performance was the result of a 
legacy cost base, weak demand for general and spot hire, and 
a business model unsuited to its marketplace. Conversely, 
we identified good value in our Oil & Gas Services Business, 
which had the potential to deliver strong revenue growth from 
long-term contracts. We have executed a restructuring of this 
business under very difficult conditions ahead of the targeted 
completion date of end Q1 FY2016: 
 > we have exited the general and spot hire market in the 
Middle East, and have sold, disposed of, or returned to the  
UK some circa 4,500 assets. We have sold our Oman business 
and closed our Egypt and Qatar offices; and 
 > we have completed the mobilisation of our largest Oil & Gas 
Services contracts and exploited opportunities from recently 
signed contracts to build value. We have now de-risked  
the Middle East business from both the loss perspective  
and also from the fact we have reduced the NBV of assets 
by some £20m and created a much simpler and easier 
to manage business. As previously announced, we are 
progressing a process with a third party relating to the 
disposal of this business. 
Growth through customer focus 
We have appointed a new Group Sales and Marketing Director 
and restructured the sales teams to provide clear ownership of 
our Strategic and Major customers who collectively account for 
51% of our revenues. At the same time we have implemented a 
simplified and geographically aligned regional sales structure, 
and have re-defined our value proposition within our target 
market segments. This has contributed to an increased bid and 
tender win rate, and we are starting FY2016 with a number of 
new contracts at either award or preferred bidder status. 
Our Strategic and Major customers are increasingly looking 
to us to provide a broader range of operational support 
services and solutions. The provision of such services, 
alongside the hire and sale of plant and equipment is already 
a major differentiator between us and our peer group. We are 
developing this range of value-added, complementary services, 
such as on-site training, asset management and testing, repair, 
inspection and maintenance.  08 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
 
Chief Executive Officer’s review  
We have also aimed to attract additional top talent. Our leadership 
team has been bolstered with a host of new people from 
diverse backgrounds this year including: BAE, Hyder Consulting, 
SCAPA, Manchester Airport Group and Hilti. In addition, we 
have successfully retained the best people, promoting where 
appropriate to strengthen the wider leadership team. A positive 
trend which is emerging is the number of ex-Speedy employees 
who are approaching us to re-join the Company.
Improving operational performance
Speedy today has a customer base of 50,000+ customers, a 
1,100-strong fleet, a national network comprising more than  
220 stores, a Net Book Value of £212m of hire equipment and  
3,800 people. Our task now is to complement this scale by 
focusing on three things over the course of the next financial 
year which will drive significant operational performance 
improvement, namely: grow our core hire revenue; optimise  
our asset management; and drive cost efficiencies. 
Grow core hire 
Our growth strategy must be market led and everything must 
begin with the customer. We have been extremely successful 
in building long-term relationships with our Strategic and Major 
clients which now give us much greater visibility of their business 
needs and equipment demand. We will continue to build on 
these relationships and target our CapEx accordingly to meet 
the demand from this customer segment. However, the Regional 
customer base is becoming an increasingly competitive arena, 
particularly in London and the South East, but it is clear from 
Customer Engagement Surveys that there is a continued strong 
demand for our services. Our focus is now on improving customer 
attraction and retention through:
 > building new Sales channels including an enhanced telesales 
capability and a series of Marketing-led customer focused 
campaigns that demonstrate the breadth of our innovative  
and safe product range;
 > pricing to reflect market conditions; 
 > introducing an improved commercial governance process 
enabling us to generate and secure a pipeline of quality 
opportunities; and
 > improving Sales productivity and performance management 
through better sales training and a market leading reward 
scheme.
Asset optimisation
Having put in place a strong backbone to our property network 
and a new IT infrastructure, the priority now is to optimise the 
breadth and depth, depot stocking levels and availability of 
equipment to drive asset utilisation up and costs down, whilst 
improving customer fulfilment. 
around our assets, as well as giving us a platform for future 
development of more efficient customer processes. In addition, 
the new system has significantly enhanced our data analytics 
and reporting capabilities. 
Culture 
We have spent a significant amount of time this year on 
a programme to focus on four key cultural aspects of the 
business namely: ensuring we keep our people and our 
customers safe; behaving in an ethical way; putting our 
customers at the heart of everything we do; and attracting, 
retaining and engaging good people with strong business 
ethics. We have all worked tirelessly in these areas this year, 
and I am proud of the results. 
 > Safety
During the year we have made transformational progress in our 
safety journey. We launched an inaugural Annual Leadership 
Safety Day, mobilising all of our leaders to visit sites across 
the country, and embarked on a new behavioural safety 
training programme. We have also launched safety awareness 
campaigns with our customers and have won multiple awards 
for the safety of our fleet. 
 > Governance and compliance
In light of the well-documented issues in the Middle East,  
we have addressed a number of key business risks and have 
re-established controls through a much improved management 
system that now clearly defines policies, processes and 
procedures. To reinforce the importance of business ethics,  
we created a new, comprehensive Code of Business Ethics 
booklet. This was posted to each of our 3,800 employees’ 
homes and as a wider leadership team, we have been  
cascading and socialising the importance of this message 
across the business.
 > Service excellence
One of our major strategic themes has been the delivery of 
service excellence to our customers. We have implemented 
a number of strategic changes to our back office customer 
support functions, including a re-invigoration of the Speedy 
Direct sales support function, and introduced new operational 
support structures for our Strategic accounts. During the year 
we were awarded the Babcock Supply Chain Excellence Award 
and the J Murphy & Sons Innovation Award.
 > People
An important task this year has been re-engaging and  
re-energising our people to get the best from our exceptionally 
talented and committed workforce. We have implemented a 
robust programme of multi-media employee communications, 
which have had a noticeably positive effect on morale.     Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic report
“We have delivered a good result despite 
having had to address a number of major 
issues over the past 12 months. We have 
successfully executed and completed  
a number of key programmes.”
 > Asset breadth and depth
Speedy has an asset base which has been 20 years in the 
making. The net result is that, in some areas, it is less than 
optimal in the current marketplace. Using sophisticated 
analytical tools, we have identified the optimum number of 
product lines, but more importantly the stock levels we need 
within each SKU. 
 > Asset holdings 
We are in the process of significantly improving our asset 
holding strategy. The top 50 or so most utilised products  
will now be stocked in each of our Express stores, the next  
350 most utilised products in our Superstores and the next  
650 in the regional MSCs, with our remaining products being 
held at the National Distribution Centre. This will help to ensure 
that we spend less time trying to find products in our network; 
the aim being to never having to say no to a customer. 
 > Asset availability
The new NDC and MSC structure in our network will also  
enable us to improve our engineering capabilities by 
consolidating our asset servicing. This will enable us to improve 
our processes to ensure that our asset flow and economies 
improve availability through the deployment of lean and 
consolidated engineering processes.
Drive cost efficiencies
As we continue to refine our network, IT system, processes  
and asset strategy, visibility of opportunities to improve 
operating costs is now starting to emerge and we can  
begin a much more scientific and focused approach to 
cost improvement. Specifically: Engineering Productivity  
(where we are developing lean processes that will enable 
increased productivity by turning our assets through the  
Test and Repair functions); Logistics (where we are dovetailing 
our asset holding strategy into our logistics efficiency 
programme); and Corporate overheads (where we have a 
continual commitment to reviewing our residual cost base  
and maximising productivity).
Transforming the Company
Having successfully addressed the ‘Fix’ issues and with 
traction being made on our initiatives to improve operational 
efficiency, we have begun turning our attention to transforming 
the business over the medium-term to achieve long-term 
sustainable profit growth. 
The total UK rental market is estimated to be worth c.£6bn per 
year. With pre-exceptional revenues of £375m, Speedy is the 
largest player and is well known as the market leader, covering 
the broadest range of customers, services and assets. The 
market is expected to continue to grow in coming years with 
market commentators having predicted a c.3% growth p.a. 
between 2015 and 2017. In order to build on our market leading 
position, and the opportunity that the market presents us, we 
have identified three key areas for development:
 > Organic growth
Strategic and Major customer demand gives us good visibility 
of product demand and, as such, we can identify shortfalls 
in our core hire holdings. This will enable us to make more 
informed CapEx decisions to ensure we are buying more of the 
right equipment which will drive up core hire utilisation and 
rebalance our mix of direct and rehire. 
 > Reinventing our Express Network
We have 50,000+ Regional/Local customers who account 
for 49% of our revenues, and who represent a potentially 
significant prize. We are now re-evaluating the use of our 150+ 
strong Express Store network to enable us to provide a much 
more convenient and relevant service to these customers. 
 > Broader services 
Our market-leading position with our Strategic and Major 
customers gives us significant opportunities to provide a 
broader range of non-hire services. We are seeing an increasing 
demand resulting from this customer base requiring fewer 
suppliers in their supply chains to provide a broader range  
of services. For us this includes, but will not be limited to 
training, fuel management, logistics, property sharing,  
security, welfare support and health and safety support. 
Outlook
We have delivered a good result despite having had to  
address a number of major issues over the past 12 months.  
We have successfully executed and completed a number  
of key programmes and have started making good progress  
on a number of improvement initiatives. 
The UK is investing in a major infrastructure regeneration 
programme on an unprecedented scale and our customers  
are demanding a broader range of services and products 
from their suppliers. Meanwhile we have identified a major 
opportunity in re-connecting with our 50,000+ Regional/Local 
customer base. 
We have an increasingly strong platform to build on, we have  
a strong brand and a leading market position and we are now 
well placed to deliver sustainable profit growth over the 
medium and long-term.
Mark Rogerson MBE
Chief Executive Officer
