 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc  
Annual Report 2015
38
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s report
“The Group achieved another solid financial result in 
2015, demonstrating the continued strength and 
resilience of our strong direct sales business model.”
Nicholas Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
Key points in this section:
 – Considerable progress in our 
strategy for growth
 – Background of slowing 
industrial production growth 
rates and currency headwinds
 – Organic sales increased by 
2%, continued strong growth 
in Watson-Marlow
 – Adjusted operating profit 4% 
ahead at constant currency
 – Reinvesting cost saving 
benefits in the execution of our 
strategy for growth
Introduction
The Group achieved another solid financial 
result in 2015, demonstrating the continued 
strength and resilience of our strong 
direct sales business model, achieved 
against the background of a progressive 
slowing in global industrial production 
growth to very low levels and also further 
currency headwinds. Additionally, we 
made considerable progress in our 
strategy for growth, continued our market 
development, took actions to improve 
efficiency and reduce costs, opened 
six new geographic sales companies, 
completed five acquisitions and made two 
strategic disposals.
Our direct sales approach in both our 
steam specialties and Watson-Marlow 
businesses, through our team of over 1,300 
highly skilled and experienced sales and 
service engineers, is effective in uncovering 
opportunities to improve customers’ steam 
systems and fluid path processes. This 
“self-generated” element to our business, 
combined with the high proportion of sales 
that derive from end users’ maintenance 
and operating budgets, makes our business 
highly resilient, especially in the difficult 
market conditions we have seen in many 
markets this year. Importantly, our sales and 
service engineers generate solutions for 
customers’ problems and deliver benefits to 
end users in the shape of reduced energy 
usage and lower CO 2 emissions, water 
savings, increased productivity, improved 
quality, better reliability, reduced costs, 
reduced chemical use and enhanced 
regulatory compliance.
Strategy implementation
Effective implementation of our strategy 
for growth has been a priority through the 
year and in 2016, we will be reinvesting the 
benefits from our cost reduction actions into 
the execution of our strategy. Our strategic 
objective is to outperform our markets by 
delivering self-generated growth, which 
we achieve through focusing on our six 
strategic themes:
•  increase direct sales effectiveness 
through sector focus;
•  develop the knowledge and skills of our 
expert sales and service teams;
•  broaden our global presence;
•  leverage our R&D investments;
•  optimise supply chain effectiveness; and
•  operate sustainably and help improve our 
customers’ sustainability. 
Notable progress in implementing our 
strategy has been made in:
•  intensifying, expanding and accelerating 
the training and development of our 
sales engineers to ensure that we are 
even more effective in identifying and 
generating opportunities to improve 
customers’ steam systems and niche 
pumping systems. In particular, work 
commenced on the creation of a new 
Spirax Academy that in 2016 will be the 
centre for the global training, mentoring 
and development of our employees, 
commencing with our direct sales force;
•  the refinement and implementation of 
Customer Value Propositions to ensure 
that we adequately anticipate and meet 
the requirements of customers;
•  delivering a greater sector focus on 
selected target industries, particularly 
in Food & Beverage, Healthcare, Oil 
& Petrochemical, Chemical and OEM 
customers, with appropriate sectorisation 
that will be an on-going feature for 
many years;
•  increasing the focus on attractive 
product areas, including controls and 
thermal energy management;
•  continued innovative product  
developments
•  ensuring we have the correct structure, 
resources and skills to improve the 
effectiveness of our end-to-end 
supply chain;
•  continued geographic expansion, 
with six new direct sales companies  Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
Annual Report 2015
39
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information
established in the year, including a major 
strategic investment in India; and
•  continuing to improve our sustainability 
practices, including reducing our global 
carbon emissions by 13% in 2015.
We have concentrated on the alignment 
of the entire organisation behind our 
strategic themes. Improvements have 
been made to our health and safety 
management processes, and our risk 
management processes have also been 
enhanced and integrated further into the 
everyday business.
Market environment 
Steam is used in a huge range of 
manufacturing processes for heating, 
curing, cooking, drying and cleaning, 
across a diverse range of different 
industries, including Food & Beverage, 
Pharmaceutical, Oil & Petrochemical, 
Chemical and Pulp & Paper. Steam is also 
used in hospitals and buildings for space 
heating, humidification and sterilisation, and 
to provide a reliable source of hot water at 
constant temperature. Likewise, peristaltic 
and niche pumps are also used across a 
wide range of similar industries to address 
difficult pumping problems. This wide 
spread of industry sectors and relatively 
large proportion of revenues that derive 
from end users’ maintenance and operating 
budgets, means that our markets tend to 
track the growth in industrial production, 
although generally with a small lag of one 
or two quarters. Our exposure to large 
capital projects is limited, accounting for 
approximately 15% of our revenues, with 
a higher concentration of these projects 
in emerging markets. Overall, there was 
a further small decline in this segment of 
the market due to delays in approval and 
delivery of projects, and generally fewer 
projects undertaken by customers.
As we have previously noted, the impact 
on our business from the sharp fall in the 
price of oil is relatively muted but we are not 
immune, having seen a negative impact in 
Korea and Canada in particular, as well as in 
Brazil and China for different local reasons. 
Overall, we estimate that the weaker Oil 
& Petrochemical sector and lower energy 
prices, reduced Group sales growth by 
around 1% in 2015.
Global industrial production growth rates 
started to ease from the middle of 2014 
and have progressively slowed through 
2015, ending the year at virtually a global 
standstill. This has happened across all 
geographic regions, with emerging markets 
seeing the sharpest deceleration in industrial 
production growth.
In EMEA, industrial production growth 
slowed only modestly in 2015 and has been 
relatively stable since the Spring, although 
at low levels of growth of less than 1% 
overall. This includes a sharp deterioration 
in economic conditions in Russia, a 
slowing trend to zero growth in the UK but 
increasing industrial production growth in 
France, Italy and Spain, albeit following at 
least two years of decline in each case.
Asia Pacific has experienced a marked 
slowdown in industrial production growth 
driven by a strong deceleration in China 
as well as an industrial recession in South 
Korea. Elsewhere, market conditions have 
been mixed but with good economic 
growth in India.
In the Americas, industrial production 
growth slowed markedly and unexpectedly 
in the USA and Canada from the healthy 
pace seen in 2014. South America remained 
in an industrial recession throughout the 
year, with a deteriorating position in the 
largest market in Brazil. We have strong, 
long-standing businesses across Latin 
America with local manufacturing that has 
helped to insulate us against the impact 
of currency weakness but we are not 
immune from the severe economic turmoil 
in the region.
Progress in 2015 
Organic sales increased by 2%. 
The strongest growth was again in  
Watson-Marlow where we achieved growth 
in all geographic regions. Organic sales in 
the steam specialties business were flat; we 
Key market performance
Positive Neutral Negative
Food
Oil & 
Petrochemical
OEM 
Machinery
Pharmaceutical 
& Biopharm
 – Our markets are strongly influenced by industrial production 
growth rates as steam and niche pumps and associated fluid path 
technologies are widely used across industry sectors
 – Progressive slowing in global industrial production growth to very 
low levels during 2015
 – Sales growth achieved in our strategic focus sectors including 
Food & Beverage
 – Good performance in the Pharmaceutical & Biopharmaceutical 
sector, strengthened by acquisitions
 – Strategic focus on OEM customers delivered results in key sectors
 – Oil & Petrochemical markets globally challenging in 2015 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc  
Annual Report 2015
40
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s report continued
achieved continued modest sales growth in 
EMEA and we made a small advance in the 
Americas but organic sales were lower in 
Asia Pacific, mostly due to Korea, although 
China was marginally ahead.
Group sales at £667 .2 million were 
down 2% at reported exchange rates 
(2014: £678.3 million), with unfavourable 
currency movements reducing sales on 
translation by 4%, due to the weakness of 
the euro, again compounded by significant 
currency weakness in a number of 
emerging markets. This was mitigated by 
the benefit to sales on translation from the 
strength of the US dollar and Chinese RMB 
against sterling. Currency movements have 
been quite volatile for some time, making 
projections increasingly uncertain. However, 
if recent exchange rates prevail for the full 
year, sales in 2016 would be 3% higher 
on translation into sterling compared to 
2015, with the benefit from the weakness 
of sterling being mitigated by the further 
weakness in a number of emerging 
market currencies. Sales of the five small 
acquisitions during the year were partially 
offset by the disposal of M&M, leaving a 
small net contribution to sales of £3 million 
or around 0.5% of sales growth. The effect 
of these in 2016 would be a similar small net 
contribution to sales growth.
Watson-Marlow, which accounted for 
23% of Group revenues, grew sales by 
10% at reported exchange rates and by 
13% at constant currency, including a 4% 
contribution from the three acquisitions 
completed during the year. Growth was 
achieved across all geographic regions, with 
the strongest growth in EMEA followed by 
the Americas. We benefited from positive 
conditions in our key Biopharmaceutical 
market, our strongly sector focused sales 
approach, sales of innovative new products 
and good traction from the successful 
integration of acquisitions in recent years.
In our steam specialties business, which 
accounted for 77% of Group revenues, 
organic sales were flat overall. At reported 
exchange rates, sales were down 5% due 
to unfavourable currency movements that 
reduced sales by 4% and a small impact 
from the disposal of M&M. We again saw 
a small decline in large project sales but 
made gains in our strategic target industries 
and product groups. Our business remains 
very resilient, reflecting the high proportion 
of sales that are derived from our end 
users’ operating and maintenance spend. 
Geographically, in EMEA we achieved 
a modest organic sales increase, with 
widespread gains and strong progress in 
a number of our smaller markets but with 
a decline in Russia. In the Americas, the 
small sales advance was due to progress 
in Latin America, despite the economic 
difficulties, with a modest 2% decline in 
organic sales in North America, although 
with an improving trend in the USA in the 
second half-year. In Asia Pacific, organic 
sales were lower, mostly due to Korea 
where sales were down for the year against 
a very good performance in 2014; sales 
in China were marginally ahead, with 
industrial overcapacity reducing the level of 
project work.
Group adjusted operating profit of 
£152.4 million was 4% ahead of the prior 
year at constant currency. The operating 
profit at reported exchange rates was 
almost flat as the negative impact of the 
weakness of the euro and a number of 
emerging market currencies was only 
partially offset by the relative strength 
of the dollar. Watson-Marlow again 
performed strongly and in the steam 
specialties business, profits grew by 
double-digits at constant currency in EMEA, 
the Americas was flat and Asia Pacific 
registered an operating profit reduction at 
constant currency.
The Group operating profit margin 
expanded to a record 22.8% (2014: 22.5%). 
We continued to benefit from overall 
broadly flat material and component input 
costs, whilst increasing resources to 
FX
Watson-
Marlow Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-4% +10% 0% -7% +11%
-£6.3m
Segment operating proﬁt changes* £m
-7.5
-5.0
-2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
£m
-10.0
-5.0
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
FX
Watson-
Marlow Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-4% +13% +1% -4% +1%
-£24m
Segment revenue changes* £m
£m
* Rates of change at constant currency. * Based on adjusted profit at constant currency. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 
Annual Report 2015
41
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Corporate Information
Industrial production growth rate 2015*
improve our purchasing processes and 
coordination across the Group. Actions to 
reduce costs in our steam specialties UK 
manufacturing plant were taken in Q1 
generating a modest net benefit to profit 
in 2015, with a full-year effect in 2016. 
We have continued to make investments 
to implement our strategic themes in the 
areas of sales force development, market 
development and product development 
but have exercised tight control over costs 
in the face of the progressive slowing in the 
rate of overall global industrial production 
growth. In addition, we have borne costs 
of approaching £2 million to establish our 
new wholly owned direct sales operation in 
India that commenced trading in July 2015. 
Our usual seasonal second half-year profit 
bias was accentuated by the cost reduction 
benefits coming through as the year 
progressed and the shipment of the normal 
backlog built up in the first half-year. In 2016, 
we will be increasing investment in the 
implementation of our strategy for growth, 
reinvesting the benefits from our cost saving 
actions in 2015.
Market outlook
We have made good progress in 
implementing our strategic themes across 
our two businesses, which we expect to 
enhance our growth prospects, facilitating 
self-generated growth and making us less 
reliant on external market conditions.
Global industrial production growth 
slowed progressively through the year, 
with successive projected improvements 
being continually pushed back. At the 
end of 2015, year-on-year global industrial 
production growth was around zero, with 
a decline overall in non-OECD markets. 
Prospects for global industrial production 
growth in 2016 are uncertain but we will 
be focusing on realising the benefits from 
the implementation of our strategy, with 
the emphasis on self-generated growth. 
We have a strong direct sales business 
model, which combined with a large 
proportion of our revenues being derived 
from end users’ maintenance and operating 
budgets, gives us a high degree of resilience 
in difficult economic conditions. We have 
continued to invest in our business for the 
long term and remain confident that the 
improvements we have made, and continue 
to make to our business, will enable us to 
outperform our markets and deliver benefits 
to all stakeholders.
 >4% 
 >2 to 4%
 >0% to 2%
 < _0%
*  Compared with the prior year. (Source: Global Industrial Production Watch, CHR Economics, February 2016)
