 The Group’s Sports Retail division supplies a wide range of sports and leisure equipment, across an array of global brands, 
including Group owned brands such as Dunlop, Slazenger and Lonsdale, third party and licensed-in brands. This wide 
range of products, combined with extremely competitive pricing, attracts customers to both our stores and website in ever 
increasing numbers.
As at 26 April 2015 Sports Retail operated out of 661 stores in the UK and the rest of Europe (excluding Northern 
Ireland). The majority of stores trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia.
We continue to expand and develop our stores, with several relocations taking place in the year into larger and better 
configured space, so that we are better able to serve the needs of our customers. Investment has also continued in 
specialist performance areas, with visual merchandising improving across the whole of the division.
In Europe, the Group’s growth has continued, with our products being offered via wholly-owned retail outlets, joint 
ventures with other retailers and stores within another retailer’s store. We have continued the integration of the recently 
acquired Sport Eybl and Sports Experts AG (EAG), and over the coming year will re-brand key Eybl Megastores to the 
Lillywhites fascia.
During the year, as part of our European growth programme, we increased our European store portfolio by nine stores and 
entered one new country, with the opening of our Bern store in Switzerland. Our strategy remains to identify partners in 
new territories while continuing to expand our operations in the countries where we currently trade.
Our online sales continue to increase, enhanced in the year by the successful introduction of UK Click and Collect and the 
development of a streamlined checkout process.
The Group operates through three strategic business segments: Sports Retail, Premium Lifestyle and Brands.
SPORTS RETAIL 85% TOTAL REVENUE £2,398.6m Up 5.5%
The Brands division licenses our brands to partners across the world through a committed network of licensing and 
distribution partners. The unique, integrated approach to brand management ensures consistency, and encourages 
continual investment and global success for the brands.
Focus on our brands is maintained through sponsorship of high-profile media personalities, events, teams and venues. 
Bolddog, a motorcycle display team made famous in the 2014 series of Britain’s Got Talent, are a recent addition to the 
No Fear brand, and Sno Zone in Reading is a winter sports venue which is sponsored by our Nevica brand. The Slazenger 
brand has recently signed a renewal sponsorship of The Championships, Wimbledon. Slazenger has sponsored the event 
since 1902, making this one of the longest partnerships in sporting history.
BRANDS 8% TOTAL REVENUE £226.4m Up 4.1%
7% TOTAL REVENUE
Rationalisation of the division has taken place throughout the year, including the closure of loss-making stores, the 
mitigation of operating costs and the relocation of back-office functions.
The Premium Lifestyle division is a must for those fashion conscious shoppers who demand high-end and on trend apparel. 
The division centres on contemporary luxury with a brand focus, and leading stocked brands include Paul Smith, Fendi 
and Alexander McQueen. The division enables customers to express their individuality, with new collections regularly being 
added. Recent additions include White Premiata, Carven and Canada Goose.
PREMIUM LIFESTYLE £207.6m Down 3.0%
SPORTS DIRECT AT A GLANCE
10
ANNUAL REPORT 2015  SPORTS STORES ACROSS EUROPE
Note: Includes associates in Iceland, Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland that trade under the SPORTSDIRECT.com fascia.
11
EVERYTHING IS CHANGING...
