 Performance
Overall, the Board is pleased with the 
strategic position that each of its divisions 
has secured, but recognises that each 
division will also require further investment, 
ahead of anticipated revenue and profit 
benefits, to better enable them to deliver 
their full potential.
Group results are in line with expectations and 
the reduction in our net debt strengthens the 
Group’s balance sheet. 
Investment in technology across the Group, 
our reputation and regulatory position have 
driven both a significant number of new 
contracts in Racing and Digital whilst we are 
also nearing the completion of the 
modernisation of The Football Pools. 
Technology has also driven an expanding 
customer base in Bump 50:50, the business 
providing lottery products for professional 
sports teams.
We expanded our Venues business into 
California under the brand name “Striders”, 
with the official opening in January 2016.
The Group sold its stake in its US online 
gaming joint venture, SNG, for an £8.1m profit 
in June. This business had only been operating 
for three months and the profit realised is 
recognition of the Group using its US licensing 
and regulatory position to generate value.
Shareholder value
Delivery of shareholder value is our key aim 
as a Group. The profit realised from the sale 
of SNG demonstrates this and the Group 
continues to make investments to support 
its organic strategy. 
In addition, during the year the Group 
received indicative offers for both the 
entire Group and certain operating divisions. 
In reviewing these and any other potential 
offers, the Board together with its advisers 
consider the balance of the immediate 
shareholder value to be realised compared 
to the long-term prospects of the Group.
Chairman’s statement
Technology driving expansion and 
modernisation
Dear Shareholder
It has been another busy year for the Group. 
Our results highlight both the progress made 
and the challenges we have faced.
We have reached an important point in the 
Group’s development, following a long period 
of investment in technology and modernisation.
20 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Our report to you on corporate governance 
explains how we approach and implement 
the principles of good governance across 
Sportech and the level of importance we 
give to each area. The effectiveness of our 
Board is a key priority, as we believe this 
to be fundamental in order to deliver on 
business objectives and ultimately to deliver 
shareholder value, whilst operating in an 
ethical way. 
Our Committees are structured to ensure 
the responsibilities of the Board are carried 
out effectively and in line with best practice 
procedure. Detail on each Committee and its 
responsibilities and duties carried out during 
the year under review can be found within 
this report.
We will continue to strive for best practice 
governance. We use our time together 
as a Board, and our communications with 
Directors outside of formal meetings, to 
address the core responsibilities of strategy, 
review of financial and operational 
performance, review of risk management 
and internal controls. This ensures the 
composition of the Board delivers an 
effective governing body for Sportech.
Roger Withers
Non-executive Chairman
3 March 2016
The Group continues to invest in its core 
businesses and potential growth opportunities. 
As such, no dividend is proposed for the year 
to 31 December 2015. The Board continues to 
assess the appropriate time to commence 
dividend payments.
Governance
As Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring 
your Board remains effective. I work closely 
with Ian Penrose, Sportech’s Chief Executive, 
to ensure your Board provides the appropriate 
support and guidance to the Executive team. 
This Annual Report as a whole is considered 
by the Board to be “fair, balanced and 
understandable” as is required by the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.
Board and employees
The Board is pleased that the appointment 
of Mickey Kalifa as Chief Financial Officer 
takes effect from today. Mickey has been 
our Corporate Development Director for 
the past six years. He has extensive experience 
in finance and executive roles within some of 
the world’s largest media and technology 
companies, including Young & Rubicam, 
Disney, Time Warner, BSkyB and Liberty 
Media. He succeeds Cliff Baty, whom we 
thank for his contribution to the Group.
Sportech is a geographically diverse business 
which places significant demands upon 
executives and employees. The Board would 
like to thank them for their dedication and 
commitment to the Group.
Corporate governance report
The following report is intended to outline 
the Group’s corporate governance structure, 
policies and procedures, and inform 
shareholders of the activities of the 
Board and its Committees during the year 
to 31 December 2015. I trust the report is 
informative and insightful for shareholders 
and demonstrates the Board’s commitment 
to high standards of governance, and I 
welcome any feedback or comment from 
shareholders or other stakeholders.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 21
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements
