 Overview
Sportech is one of the world’s leading pool 
betting operators and technology suppliers, 
focused on highly regulated markets worldwide.
The Group comprises three divisions: Racing 
and Digital, Venues and The Football Pools. 
Both the Racing and Digital division (which 
processes $13bn bets annually) and the 
Venues division (which operates legal betting 
exclusively and in perpetuity in Connecticut in 
venues, online and mobile on horseracing and 
greyhounds) are based in the US and Canada 
where we employ 630 people across field 
operations and four corporate offices. We are 
licensed by gaming regulators in 28 US States. 
The Football Pools is based in the UK, 
and is the oldest football gaming business 
in the world.
Group highlights
 –Results in line with expectations with EBITDA 
of £23.1m (2014: £24.0m)
 –Balance sheet strengthened with 
net debt down by 10%
 –Investment in technology delivering new 
international customers
 –Expansion into providing lottery products 
for professional sports teams
 –Football Pools division nearing completion 
of modernisation programme
 –Expansion of venues strategy into California
 –Disposal of online interests in New Jersey 
for a pre-tax gain of £8.1m
 –£97m VAT refund appeal to be held in 
Court of Appeal on 7/8 April 2016
We have invested substantial time into 
developing our activities and licensing 
position in the US. During the year, we sold 
our iGaming interest in New Jersey, realising 
a threefold return on our investment after 
only three months of operation.
We continue to evaluate opportunities 
to deliver the full potential of our divisions 
whilst ensuring we maintain prudent financial 
ratios. In this regard, over the past twelve 
months we have considered approaches for 
the Group as well as for The Football Pools. 
Chief Executive’s review
Positioning Sportech as one of the 
leaders in the global betting market
The Group has reached an important stage 
in its development, as our US businesses 
make continued progress on many fronts, 
and our UK Football Pools business arrives 
at the inflection point of expected stability 
after years of modernisation.
Business model
           Technology
Implement technology 
to drive operational 
performance
           Stabilise           
Stabilise and 
grow EBITDA
More
contracts
More 
contracts 
with greater 
margins
Continue 
venue roll out
       Based on licences 
       in CT and CA
Enhance
profitability
                Enhance profitability       
from existing and       
future ventures       
Cash flow from core businesses, strength of existing relationships and regulatory footprint drive future opportunities
Opportunities
iGaming and sports 
betting as regulation 
permits
Opportunities
New venues, online, mobile and slots
Opportunities
Grow a trusted brand
Sportech
Racing
and
Digital
The
Football
Pools
Sportech Venues
Responsibility    Expertise    Trust
04 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Bump 50:50 provides in-stadia electronic 
lotteries to professional sports teams. 
Since acquiring the business in late 2014, 
we have grown the seven contracts the 
business had at that time to 21, with new 
customers including teams from the NHL, 
NBA, NFL, Nascar, MLS and the Canadian 
F1 Grand Prix. 2016 has already seen the 
launch of the first 50/50 lottery in the State 
of Texas and the launch of the first-ever 
online raffles, providing fans of the Colorado 
Avalanche, Denver Nuggets, Colorado 
Mammoth and Colorado Rapids, the chance 
to play on PC, tablet and mobile, as well as 
in-stadia. Under Sportech’s ownership, Bump 
50:50 is forecast to make profits for the first 
time in 2016. The acquisition ensures the 
name and responsible betting reputation 
of Sportech is known in the North American 
professional sports market ahead of any 
regulation to enable sports betting.
Despite this, we have remained focused 
on our operations and we will continue to 
investigate any proposals that recognise 
the value of the inherent potential of these 
businesses. We look forward to moving into 
a year of growth in 2016.
Sportech Racing and Digital 
Sportech entered the market in the US five 
years ago, and has substantially developed 
its technology, gaming products and licensing 
position over that time.
In 2015, we have seen the benefits of our 
significant investment in improving our 
systems with the deployment of new 
hardware and software to Betfred’s Totepool 
business in the UK (our largest single 
customer contract to date). Furthermore, 
we have secured several other new customer 
contracts in the US, and two new contracts 
in Asia (Malaysia and Vietnam), following the 
opening of our office in Singapore. However, 
we lost our contract with racing in California 
to an industry competitor with extensive 
interests in racehorse, racetrack, media 
and online betting in the State.
Strategic  
priorities 
Leadership in core markets 
through ongoing investment
 –Stabilise Football Pools 
revenues and earnings
 –Increase the Group’s 
earning capabilities
Using cash from stable core 
business for investment
 –Drive value from exclusive 
licences and US position
 –Invest in innovation and 
new technologies to open 
new markets and 
opportunities
Capitalising on opportunities 
as markets regulate
 –Capitalise on 
regulatory change
 –Continuing leadership in 
technology
Progress in 2015 –Football Pools modernisation 
and rationalisation
 –New Racing and Digital 
contracts including PNG and 
new contracts in Asia
 –Expansion of Venues into CA
 –Investment driving new 
contracts in US, Europe 
and Asia
 –Launch of iGaming in 
New Jersey
 –Continually monitoring 
opportunities for sports 
betting, slots and iGaming
 –Strong growth in sports 
lottery business
Priorities for the future –Complete modernisation of 
Football Pools
 –Stabilise Football Pools 
revenues and earnings
 –Focus on improved margins 
via technology enhancement
 –Finalise plans for Stamford 
and Norco
 –Drive value from regulatory 
position in the US and 
internationally
 –Delivery of strategic value 
for our shareholders
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 05
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements We were pleased to demonstrate the value 
of our licensed position when we sold our 
iGaming interests in New Jersey only three 
months into its operation. The sale generated 
a net profit on disposal before tax of £8.1m 
and consideration of £10.9m, including 2.2m 
shares in the Canadian-listed NYX Gaming 
Group (“NYX”) and £1.1m in contingent 
consideration (which, due to the expected 
introduction of iGaming in North America 
later this decade, we expect to receive). 
The Group continues to hold a 4% stake in 
NYX (whose shares traded at CAD $2.72 each 
at 31 December) as a result of this transaction.
The Group’s existing Indian joint venture with 
Playwin, India’s largest lottery provider, has 
agreed to supply technology and services to 
an Indian company which has been engaged 
by a Sikkim licence holder to support the 
operation of pool games. These operations 
commenced in February 2016.
To further develop our US positioning, 
in September we entered the daily fantasy 
sports market through the acquisition (for 
zero cash consideration and for effecting a 
number of customer introductions) of a 39.2% 
stake in DraftDay Gaming Group, whose 
largest shareholder is the NASDAQ listed 
DraftDay Fantasy Sports, Inc. 
Sportech Venues
In the State of Connecticut, Sportech 
Venues operates all betting on horseracing, 
greyhound racing and Jai Alai under an 
exclusive and in perpetuity licence for retail, 
telephone, internet and mobile. The business, 
which is operated with close consultation and 
oversight from the State, is the only legally 
permitted betting operator in Connecticut. 
In time, we would hope to be in a position 
to offer betting on sports and slots.
Further to this, we remain involved in 
the ongoing debate and discussions 
concerning the expansion of machine slots. 
Our involvement is based on the potential 
opportunity for the business, but also acts 
as a defensive move to counter the expected 
loss of taxation revenues for, and employment 
in, the State through the expected opening 
of new casinos in neighbouring states.
We continue to develop our retail estate 
under our exclusive licence, and have full 
approvals for the development of a $7m 
flagship sports bar, restaurant and betting 
venue in downtown Stamford. As with our 
sports bar and betting facility in Bradley, 
this will be done in partnership with Bobby 
Valentine, who will relocate his existing 
renowned sports bar and restaurant into 
the new facility. An additional venue is 
progressing through the planning stage. 
We have appointed the land and property 
consultant, CBRE, to market and sell surplus 
property and land assets we own in New 
Haven, Connecticut. This is expected to realise 
capital capable of funding the majority of 
our venues build out strategy up to 2018.
We previously announced that our 
Connecticut venues business was impacted 
by the severe winter weather at the beginning 
of 2015 which caused significant race 
cancellations, together with the absence 
of popular betting content due to the 
temporary closure of a Jai Alai venue 
throughout the year. Despite this and 
competition faced from unlicensed illegal 
internet operators who continue to take bets 
(together with tax and jobs) from Connecticut 
residents, despite the issue of cease and desist 
letters, a 50% growth in internet betting was 
achieved. We anticipate support from the 
State to protect the terms of our licence, 
and to grow jobs and State tax revenues.
We have extended our business strategy 
from Connecticut into California, where the 
Group has an agreement to develop up to 
ten new sports bar, restaurant and betting 
venues across Southern California under the 
brand name “Striders”. The first of these had 
its launch on 28 January 2016, having had 
its soft launch in late 2015. This venue has 
been developed as a joint venture with local 
operator, Silky Sullivan Group. The Group 
also has approval to construct a second site 
in the town of Norco.
Chief Executive’s review  continued
06 Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Corporate activity
During the year the Group received an 
indicative proposal from Contagious Gaming, 
Inc. but this did not result in a formal offer 
being made. In December, following receipt 
of a number of indicative proposals in respect 
of the Football Pools division, the Board 
invited interested parties to submit their best 
offers in early 2016, and the Board continues 
with this process. 
Outlook
We have started the year well and, for the 
first two months of the year, are trading in 
line with expectations.
Sportech has established a unique position 
in the regulated gaming market worldwide, 
most notably with our licensed gaming 
businesses in the US. Following a number 
of years of significant investment in our 
technology and licensing, we are now in 
the position to grow our business, dispose 
of surplus property assets, benefit from 
regulatory change and deliver earnings 
stability and then growth within the 
Football Pools division. 
We will take the actions that are required 
to deliver value to our shareholders.
Ian Penrose
Chief Executive
3 March 2016 
In the Netherlands we operate a number 
of OTBs, point-of-sale terminals and online 
betting on horseracing, all on an exclusive 
basis under a licence from the Ministry of 
Justice. This licence is in place until December 
2016 and we continue to work closely with 
the Government, the regulator and the 
horseracing industry regarding the future 
regulatory plans.
Football Pools
Several years ago, we set out a clear strategy 
for the Football Pools division, forecasting 
EBITDA of £15.0m in 2015, followed by 
earnings stability and growth thereafter. 
To achieve that position, the business needed 
to improve customer retention, increase spend 
per head from core customers, recruit new 
players and convert existing paper players into 
direct debit and online channels. To support 
delivery of this strategy, the business needed 
to modernise its operations and consolidate 
its customers into a single database, enabling 
greater cross-sell opportunities with a lower, 
more agile operating cost base.
We are pleased, therefore, that the 2015 
Football Pools EBITDA was £15.2m. Ongoing 
improvements in technology platforms will 
provide a basis for stability and subsequently 
growth in future years.
VAT claim
Following the Upper Tribunal’s decision 
in September 2014 to uphold the appeal 
from HMRC in relation to the £97m VAT 
repayment claim regarding Spot the Ball, 
the Group was granted permission to appeal 
to the Court of Appeal and were advised that 
the hearing would take place in November 
2015. Due to a lack of judicial availability, this 
hearing did not take place. We have now 
been advised that the hearing will take 
place on 7/8 April 2016.
Sportech PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic report
Corporate governance
Financial statements
