 !
7: "#"$ %& '(") (*+,"%-.") //'0-"1 (% 2& 3 "0/ 4") ..2 '/3 ,"567! "
! !
Group CEO review 
I share the disappointment and dissatisfaction 
of shareholders and colleagues in the 
discovery of the battery issue within certain 
smoke alarms and, along with my Board 
colleagues, will take the necessary learnings 
and implement the required changes to ensure 
no future repetition. 
The warranty issue has unfortunately, though 
understandably, overshadowed our 2015 
results.  However, since joining the business 
last year, it is clear we have a talented and 
committed team at Sprue with exciting new 
products and marketing campaigns which 
have been recognised by our customers in 
their purchase decisions and our resultant 
record year of revenue. 
 
We have an authentic and important purpose 
– to protect, save and improve our customers’ 
lives by making innovative, leading edge 
technology simple and accessible, with strong 
values which run through our entire business 
with a shared culture of continuous 
improvement benefitting Sprue’s customers 
and shareholders. 
 
We have a clear future growth strategy built 
upon:  
 
! ! Increasing sales within existing markets 
through our strong brand portfolio and new 
technology 
! ! Incremental growth through new European 
markets  
! ! New product launches 
! Accelerating our Connected Home 
proposition  
! ! Leading through best ever quality, service 
& availability 
 
In supporting our new purpose and strategy, 
we have made good progress in implementing 
the necessary changes to deliver continued 
growth, including  
! !A new, strengthened organisational 
structure with new talent joining the team 
and expanded opportunities for existing 
colleagues to maximise their potential 
through a new people plan 
! ! The creation of a new business unit with 
focussed expertise to launch our 
Connected Home proposition 
! ! A new product road map which ensures we 
are focused on delivering solutions which 
have the greatest benefit to our customers 
and shareholders 
! ! A marketing strategy with increased 
emphasis on digital and own brand 
product development as demonstrated 
through our successful “Project Shout” 
campaign 
! ! A new financial reporting regime utilising 
our existing strong IT infrastructure  
 
 
A strong balance sheet provides the platform 
for growth as we seek to operate with focus to 
develop and launch new products on time to 
the highest quality and with an enhanced 
service proposition. 
We remain focused on driving the productivity 
loop to leverage our operating expense.  The 
most important way to deliver against this 
objective is to increase sales, but we are also 
driving process improvements combined with 
capital discipline and efficiency to ensure we 
operate effectively.
 
New technology enhancing Sprue’s product offering 
The strategic plan is being delivered through 
organic growth rather than acquisition.  
However, acquisition opportunities continue to 
be under review to establish whether Sprue’s 
technology and product offering could be 
enhanced through a strategic purchase to 
accelerate incremental revenue, profit 
opportunities and thereby increase shareholder 
value.  Strict financial and commercial 
justification criteria will be applied to any  !
7; "#"$ %& '(") (*+,"%-.") //'0-"1 (% 2& 3 "0/ 4") ..2 '/3 ,"567! "
!
acquisition, prior to it being approved by the 
Board. 
European home safety is an attractive and 
growing market and as an established and 
trusted brand leader, with the actions we are 
taking, I am excited at the opportunities ahead 
and growth potential as we implement our 
plans. 
Legislative and advertising drivers 
UK.  The fitting of domestic smoke alarms in 
homes has been a key factor in the continuing 
reduction in house fires, fire-related injuries 
and deaths in the UK.  In the last 10 years in the 
UK, there has been a 63% reduction in house 
fires and fire deaths are at an all-time low 
according to Government published statistics. 
 
In 2015, the Energy Act 2013 came into force 
which requires all private sector landlords in 
England and Scotland to install a smoke alarm 
on every floor of their property, a carbon 
monoxide alarm to be installed in those 
properties which burn solid fuels and for 
landlords to check that alarms are working at 
the start of every new tenancy.  The enforcing 
body will be the local council and the 
regulations allow penalties of up to £5,000 per 
property to be imposed.  The Company sees 
this as another important step towards 
increasing awareness of the dangers of smoke 
and CO in the home. 
 
 
Sprue promoted through its websites and on TV 
channels during last year, “Project Shout”, an 
advertising campaign designed to encourage 
action to protect against the dangers of CO. The 
campaign generated significant amounts of 
publicity across various media channels, 
including national TV coverage and social 
media which significantly increased CO sales in 
Retail by 75% compared with the previous year.
Germany. The smoke alarm legislation in 
Germany which is already in place in Nordrhein-
Westfalen and Bayern (Rauchmeldegesetz ab 
01.04.2013 and Bayerische Bauordnung Art. 
46 Abs. 4 BayBO) requires smoke alarms to be 
fitted in every bedroom, children’s room and 
hallway by 31 December 2016 and 31 
December 2017 respectively. In addition, the 
ten year replacement cycle of smoke alarms 
previously installed from 2006 is about to 
commence which offers additional revenue 
opportunities with increased level of 
technology and higher local currency 
replacement product prices. 
France.   Legislation requiring smoke alarms to 
be fitted in every home in France has had a 
significant impact on Sprue’s revenue and 
increased awareness of the dangers of fire and 
smoke.  
The Group expects further new legislation will 
be announced in other parts of Europe as 
governments seek to improve home safety.  
This is expected to continue to drive sales, in 
particular CO products, where market 
penetration levels in countries such as France 
and Germany are still significantly lower than 
smoke alarms. 
Technical review 
Sprue has launched a new fully certified range 
of mains-powered SONA branded smoke and 
heat alarms along with carbon monoxide 
alarms and accessories for the UK Trade sector 
which includes  a remote test and reset 
product.  SONA provides a technology 
advantage over competitor products especially 
with its market leading low power 
consumption, which is particularly important 
for new “sustainable” housing projects.  
Customer feedback to date is highly positive 
and full scale production of this range of 
products commenced in December 2015. 
 
 
SONA range for Trade  
 
Sprue continues to invest in its Connected 
Homes Solutions (“CHS”) business unit and 
will shortly be connecting a wider range of its 
products through its interface gateway 
technology to the internet.  At the same time, 
Sprue is expanding and enhancing the skills 
of its Technical team, which increased from 
15 to 24 engineers over the course of the 
year, to accelerate product development.  !
56 "#"$ %& '(") (*+,"%-.") //'0-"1 (% 2& 3 "0/ 4") ..2 '/3 ,"567! "
!
 
 
Connecting products to the internet 
Based on our research, sales opportunities 
from CHS appear significant.  To bring greater 
certainty and accountability to our CHS 
proposition, we have formed a new business 
unit to focus on this opportunity.  In January 
2016, Sprue prepaid £0.45m for a number of 
user licences to support its connected homes 
business proposition and is continuing to work 
closely with its third party supplier to develop 
and enhance bespoke software for its own 
commercial needs and those of its customers. 
 
 
 
The Wi-Safe 2 Connected Home Solution 
 
We are pleased that the Nano-905 CO sensor 
is finally being fitted into finished 7 year life 
carbon monoxide detectors and we expect 
further growth in CO detector sales across 
Europe. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nano-905 fitted CO alarm
 
 
By the end of 2016, consistent with our new 
five year strategy, we expect to enter a number 
of new markets, including the Nordic countries, 
Poland and the Germany Retail market. 
 
I look forward to working with my Board 
colleagues and everyone at Sprue to take the 
business onto its next phase of development.  
We are committed to working through the 
issues that have been created by the 
premature end of life battery warning chirping 
and we will honour all of our customer service 
commitments.  This will be a challenging 
period for the business but I am confident that 
we will get through it, and ultimately continue 
to thrive. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Neil Smith !
Group ! "hief Executive Director  
25 April 2016 
 
                                            
