 A YEAR OF PROGRESS
PROGRESS IN 2015
Last year we maintained the focus on 
investing in enhancing our product ranges 
to meet the rapidly changing needs of 
customers and to address new areas for 
growth. The increase of 4 per cent in 
revenue to $477.1 million and the increasingly 
large number of new solutions launched, 
particularly in the second half, are evidence 
of good progress being achieved.
Networks & Applications, representing 
over half of our revenue, performed 
notably well with revenue growing by 9 per 
cent. On the other hand the market served 
by our Wireless business contracted causing 
revenue to fall. To meet this challenge 
decisive action was taken in the fourth 
quarter to reshape the operational cost base. 
It was good to see a stronger than expected 
finish to 2015 across the whole Group.
DIVIDEND
Although investment has been high over 
the last two years, this has been undertaken 
from a strong financial position. The 
Company has no debt and cash balances 
of $102.0 million as at 31 December 2015. 
The final dividend recommended by the 
Board is 2.21 cents, resulting in a total 
dividend for 2015 of 3.89 cents per share.
BOARD CHANGES
We have made a number of changes to the 
composition of the Board in 2015. In May 
we welcomed Tom Lantzsch to the Board 
as a non-executive director; Tom brings 
a wealth of technology experience to the 
Board, currently serving as the Executive 
Vice President of Strategy at ARM Holdings 
Plc. He has also held senior positions at 
a range of leading technology companies. 
Ian Brindle stepped down from the Board 
in August 2015 after having served since 
December 2006. We miss his knowledge, 
wisdom and counsel. In June this year we 
were pleased to welcome Jonathan Silver 
to the Board, and Jonathan has now taken 
Ian’s place as the Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. Jonathan brings over 25 years 
of experience as the Chief Financial Officer 
of Laird plc, together with valuable 
experience as a non-executive director. 
We announced in November that Rachel 
Whiting, our Chief Financial Officer had 
decided to retire and would step down 
from the Board at this year’s AGM. On 
behalf of the Board I would like to express 
our gratitude for all her hard work and 
her contribution to the Board and to the 
success of the Group. The search for 
Rachel’s replacement is underway and 
we will make an announcement in due 
course about the identity of her successor.
BOARD VISITS
Members of the Board visited a number 
of our offices this year and met with 
the management teams of many of our 
business units. We have been impressed 
by the dedication, flair and inventiveness 
demonstrated by our employees which 
enables us to deliver the complex solutions 
customers seek. On behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank everyone in the Group 
for their contribution this year and we look 
forward to continuing momentum in 2016.
OUTLOOK
The Board is confident that we are set 
on the path to achieve overall order 
and revenue growth for Spirent as our 
R&D focus on the most attractive market 
segments continues to deliver and as 
we begin to see the returns from our sales 
and marketing investments accelerate.
ALEX WALKER 
Chairman
“ 
Networks & Applications 
division was a notable 
performer with a 9 per cent 
increase in revenue
”
Chairman’s statement
6
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2015
