 !
9 "#"$ %& '(") (*+,"%-.") // '0-"1 (% 2& 3 "0/ 4") ..2 '/3 ,"567! "
!
Executive Chairman’s review 
       
The Group reported a robust operating profit of 
£12.8m (£10.4m) on record sales of £88.3m 
(2014: £65.6m).  It is hugely disappointing that 
our results have been overshadowed by the 
battery warranty issue which was only 
discovered recently.  With new product 
certifications underway already and sales into 
Germany expected to recover strongly, we 
expect to build momentum in trading in the 
second half of 2016 and into 2017 
Whilst 2015 was a record year of sales for 
Sprue, it was overshadowed by the 
announcement released on 18 April 2016 of a 
significantly increased warranty provision which 
is hugely disappointing for the Company and all 
stakeholders.  This is due to a percentage of 
certain smoke alarm products indicating a 
premature end of life battery warning chirp 
resulting in an additional £5.5m warranty 
charge which the Group has booked to cover 
the expected cost of dealing with the issue over 
the next six years.  I wish to reassure our 
customers that we will continue to meet our 
customer service obligations and we have very 
much appreciated those messages of support 
received.  The Board is keen to stress that this 
is not a safety critical issue. Further details on 
the battery warranty issue are set out below. 
Strong sales into France and record trading 
within the UK combined to help generate the 
highest ever annual Group sales, up 35% to 
£88.3m, and operating profit before £5.5m 
exceptional charge and £0.5m share based 
payments charge increased 23% to £12.8m 
(2014: £10.4m ). 
Despite the warranty issue which we are 
addressing, I am pleased with the new strategic 
plan which Neil Smith, Sprue’s CEO, has led 
from inception since joining the Group in 
February 2015.  The strategic plan was 
approved by the Board in H2 2015, from which 
we are already seeing significant results. 
Traditionally Sprue has had a low market share 
in the UK Trade sector, primarily selling the BRK 
mains powered range.  The introduction of our 
new SONA range represents an exciting new 
growth opportunity for Sprue as we start to sell 
the range of mains powered SONA branded 
smoke and heat alarms along with carbon 
monoxide alarms and accessories designed 
specifically for the UK Trade market. These 
products and accessories went into full 
production in December 2015.  SONA, which 
incorporates Sprue's own Thermoptek, 
Thermistek and Wi-Safe 2 technology has 
unique patented energy saving technology.  
Over time, we expect to secure a greater market 
share of the UK Trade sector with this exciting 
new range of market leading mains powered 
products. 
Throughout 2015, we have sought to 
strengthen the Coventry based Technical team 
and, in particular, our firmware capability, 
increasing the Technical headcount from 15 to 
24.  In 2015, we invested in approximately 
£0.3m of specialist test equipment to 
accelerate our time to market for new products 
by being able to replicate many of the third 
party tests performed by the certification 
bodies in-house as part of our own in-house 
product development. 
 
Innovation – The Connected Home 
Exceptional £5.5m charge for battery warranty 
issue 
On 18 April 2016, the Company announced that 
it had recently identified an issue in certain 
batteries supplied by a third party supplier that 
may cause a premature low battery warning 
chirp in certain of its smoke alarm models sold 
in the UK and in Continental Europe. 
 
As a result, to support the Company’s customer 
service obligations, the Board has increased the 
Group’s warranty provision as at 31 December 
2015 by £5.5m to £6.8m (2014: £0.9m).  The 
cash cost of dealing with this issue is expected 
to be incurred over the next six years.  As at 31 
December 2015, the Company had cash of 
£22.4m and no debt.  !
: "#"$ %& '(") (*+,"%-.") // '0-"1 (% 2& 3 "0/ 4") ..2 '/3 ,"567! "
!
I am deeply disappointed about the impact this 
third party component issue is having and I wish 
to reassure customers and all stakeholders that 
the quality of all of our products is of the utmost 
importance to the Company.  The failure mode 
in the battery in affected smoke alarms has 
only recently become apparent and typically 
occurs after around three years from the date 
of battery manufacture.   To prevent the issue 
happening in the future and to ensure all the 
Group’s smoke products perform to the highest 
standards, the Group has introduced additional 
screening processes on the production line at 
CICAM, its principal supplier, prior to the battery 
being fitted into finished smoke alarms. 
Review of product warranty 
The Group provides a warranty on the entire 
product including the battery which is typically 
between one and ten years in duration.  The 
Board believes that Sprue’s product warranty 
policies are generally in line with UK and 
European smoke/CO industry “norms”.   
However, in light of the battery warranty issues 
recently identified, the Group is reviewing its 
warranty policies. 
 
More extensive testing of product returns is to 
be introduced to reduce the number of free of 
charge replacement products issued to 
customers.   Where products are found to have 
“no fault found”, the Group will restrict free of 
charge replacement products.   This review has 
just commenced and although the work is not 
complete, the Board expects to be able to 
reduce the Group’s future warranty costs.    
 
Dividends 
Despite the reduction in distributable reserves 
as a result of the additional charge for expected 
warranty costs, subject to shareholder approval 
at the Company’s AGM, the Board recommends 
the payment of a final dividend for the year 
ended 31 December 2015 of 5.5p per share 
which when added to the interim dividend of 
2.5p per share gives a total dividend unchanged 
on last year’s. The total 2015 dividend is 1.6x 
covered by post tax profit (2014: 2.2x).   Subject 
to shareholder approval at the Company’s 
Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 June 
2016, the final dividend will be paid on 22 July 
2016 to shareholders on the register on 8 July 
2016. 
 
Board changes 
There have been a number of Board changes 
during 2015 which have been made principally 
to support the business in the next phase of its 
growth and to comply with the principles of 
sound corporate governance.   In accordance 
with the commitment made in the Company’s 
admission document published in connection 
with the Company’s admission to AIM in 2014, 
I relinquished the role of Group Chief Executive 
on 2 February 2015 on the appointment of Neil 
Smith as Group Chief Executive.  Neil was 
appointed to the Board at the Company’s AGM 
in June 2015.  I remain Executive Chairman of 
the Company.   
 
As announced in April 2015, I am delighted that 
John Shepherd has joined the Board as a Non-
Executive Director.  John has held a number of 
senior positions in technology companies, 
including Non-Executive Chairman and Chief 
Executive.   
 
After 15 years on the Board, Peter Lawrence 
retired at the Company’s AGM in 2015.  We 
wish Peter well for the future and thank him for 
his commitment and contribution to Sprue. 
 
Early last year, Nick Rutter’s role as Managing 
Director was reshaped to allow him more time 
to focus on innovation and emerging 
technologies and on the delivery of our core 
technology to keep Sprue at the forefront of our 
current and potential new markets by 
optimising our future product and service 
offerings. 
 
Relocation of CICAM’s manufacturing 
I would like to thank BRK for successfully 
moving CICAM’s production to a new facility 
ahead of schedule and for ensuring that the 
certification of the new facility was seamless.  
In July 2015, the Board decided to acquire 
around £7.0m of additional buffer stock ahead 
of the year end to mitigate against potential 
supply disruption which I am pleased to report 
was ultimately not needed.  We expect to sell 
this buffer stock over the next twelve months. 
 
The new CICAM facility 
  !
9"|"Sprue"Aegis"plc"Annual"Report"and"Accounts"2015"
!
New supply terms with DTL post year end 
Agreed in March 2016, but with effect from 1 
January 2016, supply arrangements with DTL 
(which buys Sprue’s products from CICAM) 
supplying 100% of Sprue’s own smoke 
products and accessories and BRK’s smoke 
and CO products were revised.  For the duration 
of the manufacturing agreement (which has a 
rolling 12 months’ notice period), the parties 
have agreed to an annual volume and 
GBP/USD exchange rate rebate mechanism.   
 
Should Sterling strengthen against the US 
Dollar and/or production volumes increase 
from the expected level in 2016, Sprue will 
benefit through reduced product costs and vice 
versa.   In addition, Sprue and DTL have agreed 
to work together to seek to balance the loading 
of CICAM to improve the operational efficiency 
of the facility by smoothing out production.  This 
will result in an increase in Sprue’s stock in 
certain months of the year, but stock at the year 
end is not likely to be materially affected. 
 
Despite the significant product on-cost for the 
Group in 2016 to implement the new 
arrangement, this is an important agreement 
for the Group with its key supplier DTL.  The new 
terms allow Sprue to share equitably the impact 
of changes in production volumes and 
movements in the GBP/US Dollar exchange 
rate with DTL whilst ensuring its key supplier 
has sufficient capacity and the appropriate 
investment base from which to deliver the 
products to support Sprue’s strategic plan. 
 
Outlook 
As the Company announced on 18 April 2016, 
challenging trading conditions in France, 
principally due to overstocking, and weaker 
sales in Germany, due to product certification 
delays are likely to significantly adversely 
impact the Group’s expected results for this 
year. 
 
Subject to no major changes in exchange rates, 
the Board now expects: 
 
• sales and operating profit* in 2016 of 
circa £55.0m and £1.9m respectively;   
• H1 2016 operating loss* of approximately 
£1.9m which includes a restructuring 
charge of £0.2m as a result of reducing 
certain fixed overheads; and 
• an operating profit* in H2 2016 of 
approximately £3.8m 
 
We expect to rebuild trading momentum in the 
second half of 2016 with certified new products 
and enter 2017 with normal levels of trading. 
 
Whilst regrettable, the overhead reductions will 
put the Group onto a lower cost base, saving an 
estimated £0.8m in 2017, and keep the Group 
on the right course to deliver our longer term 
strategic objectives as set out last year by Neil 
Smith, the Group’s CEO.  The Board’s priority 
remains to continue to improve the operational 
and financial performance of the Group and 
deliver value for our customers and 
shareholders. 
 
 
 
Product range into Continental Europe 
 
We expect to strengthen our product portfolio 
with SONA now selling in the market, Nano 
being included in finished 7 year CO products, 
entry into new smoke and CO markets in H2 
2016 and the launch of our exciting new 
connected homes strategy.     
 
As we rebuild confidence in our products in 
Germany and put the brand damage behind us 
with new certified products, we expect to 
increase sales significantly into Germany in H2 
2016 and into 2017 with 10 million German 
homes required by law to install smoke alarms 
by the end of 2017.     
 
CO detector sales are a key part of the strategic 
plan to drive revenue in emerging markets 
which will also help boost production volumes 
at Pace Sensors and improve our gross margin. 
 
*Stated before share-based payments charge 
 
 
 
Graham Whitworth 
Executive Chairman 
25 April 2016 
