 WHAT IS YOUR OVERALL VIEW OF 
PERFORMANCE IN 2015?
RR: Let me start with what we are really 
about – patient care. During 2015, we 
delivered outstanding, personalised care  
to 270,000 in-patient and daycase patients. 
That’s a 3.7% increase on 2014, and the  
most patients ever treated.
We had no incidents of MRSA or MSSA, and 
c.difficile infection rates, at 0.60 per 10,000 
bed days, continued to be substantially lower 
than equivalent NHS rates. We maintained 
our high patient and consultant satisfaction 
levels and friend and family survey results.
We translated this excellent clinical work 
into a good set of financial results. Overall 
revenue for the year grew 3.4% to £884.8 
million (2014: £856.0 million). Adjusted 
EBITDA grew 2.2% to £160.1 million (2014: 
£156.7 million). We also continued to invest 
in the business – £109.5 million this year –  
as part of our steady development strategy. 
So, overall, a good year. 
There’s more detail on our clinical 
performance, including Care Quality 
Commission (CQC) inspections, in the  
Clinical and Operating reviews on pages  
34 and 35 and more on our financial 
performance in Simon Gordon’s Financial 
review on pages 26 to 33.
IT SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN A RELATIVELY 
VOLATILE YEAR, WITH BOTH STRENGTH 
AND WEAKNESS IN YOUR NHS WORK?
RR: About 30% of our business comes 
through the NHS – and, overall, it continues 
to grow. Three-quarters of that comes 
through the NHS e-Referral Service (formerly 
Choose and Book) and about a quarter from 
local CCG and Trust contract work. 
The NHS e-Referral Service volumes  
grew at 8.0–9.0% in the year, which is  
a steady growth.
2015 was another year of 
major development for 
Spire Healthcare. Rob Roger, 
our Chief Executive Officer, 
answers some key questions, 
reviewing a sometimes 
challenging year and looking 
to the future.
ROB ROGER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
For local contract work, it was a year of two 
halves. In the first half, we benefited from 
a lot of pre-election work, but that slowed 
after the election, and fell markedly in the 
last quarter after Monitor’s intervention in 
August 2015 to reduce penalties imposed  
for exceeding waiting list times.
We believe the NHS’s drive for cost  
control and further efficiencies will  
constrain local contract work going forward. 
That, in turn, is likely to result in lengthening 
waiting lists and further rationing of 
non-essential treatments.
HALF OF SPIRE HEALTHCARE’S BUSINESS 
COMES THROUGH PMI – IS THAT MARKET 
TIGHTENING AND WHAT CAN YOU DO 
TO BOLSTER GROWTH IN THE SECTOR?
RR: The number of insured lives has 
effectively been flat for a while. We saw  
a growth in insured lives in 2014, but we 
haven’t seen much traction since then. 
There’s net growth in corporate insured  
lives in the market, offset by a reduction  
in individual insured lives, as people face  
an increase in insurance premium tax and 
therefore turn to Self-pay as an alternative. 
We are looking to bolster private healthcare 
at two levels. One is to go directly to market. 
We launched InSpire in 2014, and one year  
on I’m delighted that we’ve got nearly 10,000 
new insured lives – and nearly 90% of those 
are people who didn’t have insurance before.
Secondly, working in partnership with 
insurance providers and clinicians to grow 
volume by reducing the cost of pathways. 
Continuing to deliver exceptional clinical  
care by looking for ways to further reduce 
the administration costs of all parties and 
improve customer service. These objectives 
often require investment in medical 
technologies or IT infrastructure by  
Spire Healthcare.
Chief Executive  
Officer’s Q&A
In good health
STRATEGIC REPORT
8 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 At a macro level, the leading insurers and 
providers are now working together for  
the first time in many years to make our 
combined product more relevant to 
customers with the objective of attracting 
more customers to the insured market. 
HOW EFFECTIVE IS YOUR ‘PAYOR HEDGE’? 
RR: The payor hedge is how we refer to the 
fact that our business comes from three 
main payor sources – PMI, Self-pay and 
the NHS. 
In 2015, we saw that payor hedge in action –  
the growth in patients self-paying came 
as a direct result of individuals recognising 
the pressures on the NHS resulting in 
rationing and growing waiting times.
The price of PMI for individuals is clearly 
an issue. In the UK, as people get older, 
premiums get more expensive, because they 
are risk adjusted. If you’re 65 and retired, your 
insurance premium is going to be very high. 
So more and more people are turning to 
Self-pay. 
And, of course, we are helping them by 
offering fixed prices on our most common 
procedures and always with immediate 
access and outstanding clinical outcomes.
HOW CONFIDENT ARE YOU THAT 
GROWING WAITING LISTS WILL MEAN 
MORE BUSINESS IN SELF-PAY AND 
E-REFERRAL SERVICE? 
RR: The growing funding gap remains. 
Whether it’s £22 billion by 2020/21, or  
£65 billion by 2030/31, I don’t know, but 
ultimately, on current funding levels, the  
NHS can’t be there for everybody. As the  
gap between supply and demand grows, by 
nature people will turn to a private product.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE FUTURE 
OF THE INDEPENDENT SECTOR’S ROLE 
TO THE UK HEALTH SYSTEM?
RR: Even though private healthcare is a tiny 
proportion – at its maximum it’s 6% of all 
health spend in the UK – and the elective 
spend, which is what we do, is less than  
4%, the opportunities are still vast.
We know we have a growing and ageing 
population, with increasing acute and 
chronic conditions. The ability to fund  
this growth in demand is a major cause  
of concern for Government.
What the private sector can offer is capital 
for investment, and capacity, particularly 
in elective areas such as orthopaedics, 
cardiology and opthalmics. 
We’re also in a position to invest in areas 
of higher acuity, such as cancer, where UK 
radiotherapy provision is already under-
resourced and where much of the NHS’s 
equipment is reaching the end of its 
operational life. 
YOU HAD A ROUND OF CQC INSPECTIONS 
LAST YEAR. WHAT HAVE BEEN THE 
GENERAL STRENGTHS AND WEAKNESSES 
FOUND IN THE HOSPITALS INSPECTED 
TO DATE?
RR: Let me firstly say that we welcome  
the new CQC inspection regime. We believe  
its concentration on the five ‘domains’ is 
robust and solid. We have even revised our 
own internal clinical reviews to mirror their 
domain protocols. We don’t want ever to be 
surprised by a CQC finding. To us, knowing 
our hospitals is all part of being ‘well led’.
Obviously, in the first year of the new  
regime both we and the CQC were learning 
from every inspection, but overall the 
outcomes have been very positive. There is 
more information on CQC inspections on 
pages 34 to 37 .
Focus on key  
payor groups
Private medical  
insurance (PMI)
Deepen our relationships  
with key insurers.
Increase and deepen our 
relationships with GPs as referrers.
Continue to expand our higher 
acuity healthcare offer.
Self-pay
Continue to engage with GPs, 
particularly regarding areas 
of NHS service constraint.
Extend transparent pricing 
and quality reporting.
Increase brand awareness.
NHS patients
Continue to build key 
NHS relationships.
Expand our service offering. 
Invest to meet specific  
NHS needs.
What the private  
sector can offer is capital 
for investment, and 
capacity, particularly  
in elective areas such as 
orthopaedics, cardiology 
and opthalmics. 
ROB ROGER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 9 Chief Executive 
Officer’s Q&A continued 
In good health
I want all our hospitals to be either ‘Good’ or 
‘Outstanding’. I don’t know how long it will 
take to get there, but we are on the path  
and it’s an absolute business priority.
MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL TOOK A 
29.9% STAKE IN SPIRE HEALTHCARE IN 
2015. WHAT SYNERGIES HAVE YOU 
IDENTIFIED SINCE ITS INVESTMENT?
RR: Mediclinic brings a wealth of 
international experience to our business. 
We’ve looked at specific areas such as supply 
chain, comparing our costs with those in 
Switzerland, Dubai or South Africa. We’re 
also looking at nursing and recruitment, 
co-ordinating our approach worldwide. 
HAS MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL’S 
INVESTMENT CHANGED YOUR STRATEGY?  
RR: Our strategy hasn’t changed: we will 
continue to grow by concentrating on the  
UK consumer, offering value for money and 
outstanding care. That means being the  
best clinically. We are developing our own 
channels for sales and referrals. We will 
reinvest to drive down cost through 
efficiencies and standardisation, while 
developing our capabilities by investing 
in our people. And we will increase our 
capacity by using what we have more 
efficiently, and by building new as required.
That strategy was in place prior to 
Mediclinic’s involvement and they  
support this. 
HOW WILL SPIRE HEALTHCARE MAINTAIN 
ABOVE-AVERAGE INDUSTRY MARGINS?
RR: The short answer is grow more volume 
and continue to improve efficiency! 
We are already a very efficient business  
but we can always do more. We are seeing 
the benefits coming through from our 
investment in a new SAP system. We put  
in a new CRM system which will improve 
sales conversion. 
Efficiency is delivered through cultural 
engagement. In 2015, we put in place an 
enhanced leadership team, ready to take  
us to the next stage in our development.
We brought in a new Chief Operations 
Officer, Andrew White, to manage the 
business day-to-day, working with our  
four Operations Directors. 
Peter Corfield, our new Group Commercial 
Director, brings significant experience  
of the insurance industry. He will continue  
to drive revenue growth through our three 
payor groups. 
Jonathan Paisley was recently appointed 
Chief Information Officer, to strengthen  
our use of digital technology. Whether it’s 
around control and referrals, engaging with 
GPs or engaging with patients, IT can make 
Spire Healthcare more efficient.
And Caroline Roberts joined us as Group 
Human Resources Director to help us  
meet the challenges the whole healthcare 
sector faces in staff recruitment and  
talent development.
There is more detail on all these areas in the 
Operating review and Our people sections  
on pages 38 to 45. 
WHERE WILL YOU BE OPENING NEW 
CAPACITY IN 2016?
RR: We have three new theatres under 
construction at Spire Methley Park, Hull and 
East Riding, and Parkway hospitals due for 
completion in the second half of 2016. Six 
new theatres are in development at Spire  
St Anthony’s Hospital (to replace four 
existing theatres) due to open later in the 
year, and two new hospitals are in build,  
in Manchester and Nottingham. They are 
scheduled to open in early 2017. We should 
have at least 131 theatres operating by the 
end of 2018.
We currently have further specialist care  
sites under review as we develop our cancer 
care offer.
WHAT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR ENTRY  
INTO THE LONDON MARKET?
RR: The London market has strong  
potential in its own right and insurers want 
contestability in the market. Obviously  
Spire St Anthony’s Hospital has bolstered  
our number of hospitals around Greater 
London, but we want a presence within 
central London. It would be a significant 
investment decision, so choosing the right 
sites is important, not only in terms of 
physical location but also proximity to the 
major teaching hospitals. 
Our duty of care at 
Spire Healthcare
We operate an extensive and well-
equipped network of acute independent 
hospitals which give patients access  
to high-quality equipment, nurses, 
consultants and medical support staff, 
from referral right through to discharge 
and beyond. 
Our culture of continuous learning 
means patients can be assured that we 
will always strive to do the very best at 
every step of their journey. 
STRATEGIC REPORT
10 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 WHAT IS THE OUTLOOK FOR 2016?
RR: We believe that we will continue  
to see growth across all payor groups, 
gaining market share with our insurers and 
expanding our Self-pay business as more 
NHS procedures are restricted and waiting 
lists increase. Working to attract more NHS 
patients through growth of the e-Referral 
Service gives patients the choice to come  
to one of our hospitals for the same price  
as they would if they were going to an  
NHS hospital.
Looking forward, we expect that in 2016:
• full year revenue will grow by between 
3.0% and 5.0%;
• the Group’s adjusted for comparable 
EBITDA margin for the year as a whole will 
remain consistent with that for 2015; and
• capital expenditure will be between  
£170 million and £190 million. 
WHY HAVE YOU DECIDED TO LEAVE SPIRE 
HEALTHCARE AND WHAT WILL BE YOUR 
HIGHLIGHT?
RR: I will be leaving the Company in June  
to take on a new challenge in a different 
industry. I have spent over nine years at Spire 
Healthcare, helping to build what I believe is 
the best private healthcare provider in the 
UK. Spire Healthcare has a great senior 
management team in place, ready to take  
the business forward and I know that their 
priority to offer patients the highest 
standards of care will continue. 
Working to establish Spire Healthcare has 
been a real privilege and I am proud to have 
worked alongside the countless individuals 
who work tirelessly to make healthcare 
better in the UK, and to be a part of the team 
who created the Group. I wish everyone at 
Spire Healthcare the best for the future. 
Rob Roger 
Chief Executive Officer 
16 March 2016
The new financial year  
has begun satisfactorily, 
with revenue growth  
in all payor groups. 
ROB ROGER, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Referral Consultant Diagnosis
Patient  
returns 
 home
Recovery/ 
after-care
Treatment
Physiotherapy 
& medical 
support
Continued 
monitoring  
& reviews
Other 
additional 
support
Our duty of care extends beyond patient returning home Duty of care within our healthcare locations
Read more about this in our case 
study on pages 12 and 13
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 11 Helping GPs stay  
at the forefront of 
medical advances
PA TIENTS: A T THE HEART OF EVERYTHING WE DO
CONSULTANT AND GP ENGAGEMENT 
   Dr Ian Gold speaking at Spire Bushey Hospital’s 
musculoskeletal GP education event 
STRATEGIC REPORT All Spire Healthcare hospitals run GP 
engagement and education programmes, 
aiming to build closer links between 
primary and secondary care, and 
improving the care pathway for patients.
Local NHS GP , Dr Ian Gold, has worked 
with Spire Bushey Hospital for 12 years, 
organising academic workshop sessions 
for GPs. Supported by our staff, Dr Gold 
plans and chairs up to seven full day 
master classes and eight evening seminars 
a year, bringing GPs and Consultants 
together to network and discuss the latest 
developments in specialist medicine. 
The workshops also help GPs determine 
whether they need to refer certain cases, 
or whether they can be managed within 
their practices. 
In 2015, topics covered included 
musculoskeletal problems, 
ophthalmology, ENT, neurology, 
paediatrics, obstetrics and gynaecology, 
urology, oncology, endocrinology, 
cardiology, gastroenterology, pain 
management and respiratory medicine.
HELPING GPs TO IMPROVE OUR PATIENT CARE
Spire Healthcare’s well-established range of 
free GP workshops is part of our nationwide 
education and engagement programme.
MR ROBERT LEE     
Consultant – NHS Royal National 
Orthopaedic Hospital, Stanmore  
“I have presented a few Spire workshops 
looking at a range of back pain case 
studies. It’s a good and interactive way  
of delivering relevant information to up 
to 100 GPs at a time – showing them 
actual cases of patients that should be, 
and have been, referred for treatment. 
They learn what to look for, when to 
refer and equally importantly, when  
not to refer. 
It’s good for GPs to see my face and  
know to whom they’re referring.  
We build good relations, so they can feel 
comfortable referring their patients.
At the end of the day, and what really 
counts is, I believe it’s good for  
our patients.”
THE CONSULTANT VIEW
1,100
In 2015, Spire Healthcare held over 1,100 
free GP workshops, seminars and training 
events open to healthcare professionals  
18,000
Over 18,000 GPs and healthcare 
professionals attended day and  
evening workshops organised by   
Spire Healthcare hospitals
DR VICTORIA MCCULLOCH   
NHS GP – The Grove Medical Centre, 
Borehamwood 
“I attended a recent Spire musculoskeletal 
workshop. I’m returning from maternity 
leave so it was the perfect opportunity 
for me to meet colleagues from the local 
area and update my knowledge at the 
same time.
I get to raise my knowledge in the subject 
area and get an update on conditions.  
It’s also good to meet the consultants  
to whom we refer, as my patients like  
to know that I am familiar with them.
We have just started using the NHS 
e-Referral Service at the practice. My 
patients are seen quicker and don’t have 
to wait so long for intervention. I think  
it makes sense to use private capacity 
rather than make patients wait a long 
time, or worse, have treatment refused.”   
THE GP VIEW
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 13
