 STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT –  
DELIVERING ON OUR INVESTMENTS
2015 saw further structural changes in the 
test and measurement industry driven by 
shifts in technological developments, such 
as the move from lab-based testing to live 
deployments; heightened emphasis on 
virtual products and cloud infrastructure; 
the maturity of the market for smartphones 
in developed regions; and continued 
consolidation of major customers. The 
relentless growth in data volumes continues, 
requiring higher speed Ethernet deployments 
to provide enhanced capacity and resilience 
against a background of an increasing 
cyber security threat. 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Group revenue grew by 4 per cent in 
2015 to $477.1 million (2014 $457.2 million), 
whilst the order intake for the Group 
was 3 per cent higher at $482.0 million 
(2014 $469.4 million) with a book to bill 
ratio of 101 (2014 103).
Revenue growth was strong in Networks & 
Applications, up 9 per cent, and in Service 
Assurance, up 16 per cent. Wireless & 
Service Experience revenue decreased 
by 6 per cent, as it was impacted by the 
change in demand for smartphone 
development and validation testing. 
Regionally the Americas and APAC were 
strong, with EMEA somewhat weaker.
The year started slowly with first half 
revenues down $2.3 million compared 
to 2014. Momentum improved during 
the second half with revenue growing 
$22.2 million, up 9 per cent over the 
same period last year. This was even 
more exaggerated at the level of adjusted 
operating profit: first half profit decreasing 
by $14.6 million to $6.0 million, but the 
strong revenue growth combined with 
expense constraint in the second half year 
delivered a $10.7 million increase in profit 
to $36.1 million, up 42 per cent over the 
second half of 2014. This resulted in full 
year adjusted operating profit of 
$42.1 million.
In 2015 the increased level of product 
development was maintained at 
$118.3 million (2014 $115.4 million), 
with a marked increase in sales and 
marketing activities at $127.2 million 
(2014 $113.5 million). Spirent delivered 
23 new product solutions to market in the 
year, created a new platform for big data 
analytics, delivered leading 100G Ethernet 
and SDN protocol test solutions, and 
significantly enhanced its cyber security 
capabilities. The expansion in sales and 
marketing delivered growth in major 
accounts and resulted in the addition 
of 498 new customers in the year.
Return on sales was 9 per cent for the 
year, a reduction against the 10 per cent 
recorded for 2014, reflecting the significant 
increase in sales and marketing efforts to 
create new market opportunities for the 
longer term. 
Basic earnings per share for the Group 
decreased in 2015 to 2.18 cents per share 
(2014 3.35 cents). Adjusted basic earnings 
per share was 5.00 cents (2014 5.82 cents).
Free cash flow generation was strong at 
$35.3 million in 2015 (2014 $10.7 million), a 
cash conversion ratio of 2.7 times reported 
earnings (2014 0.5 times). The Company 
has no debt and cash balances were 
$102.0 million at 31 December 2015 
(2014 $99.8 million).
The final dividend recommended is 
2.21 cents per share, unchanged from 
2014. The total dividend for 2015 is also 
unchanged at 3.89 cents per share.
“ 
Momentum improved in the 
second half with revenue 
growth up 9 per cent over 
the same period last year
”
Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
7
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2015 STRATEGY
The second year of implementing our 
strategy to invest for long term growth has 
delivered a record range of new products, 
solutions and services to address the 
radically changing requirements for 
verification, assurance and security of 
data communications. Investments have 
been made in customer service and 
support, product development, marketing 
and in acquiring new technologies. The 
aim is to enhance Spirent’s competitive 
differentiation, to expand the solutions 
set to gain market share and to win new 
customers. A long term objective is to 
expand revenues through software 
subscription, services and royalties in 
addition to our core business providing 
capital equipment as part of the sale of 
test systems.
Customers come to Spirent when they have 
a need to test a network, device or service 
they supply, either prior to or during 
deployment and we develop a wide range 
of innovative solutions to make that happen. 
We remain committed to our strategy and as 
explained below have made progress in all 
areas of our strategic priorities during 2015. 
Those priorities are to:
• expand the markets we serve;
• establish and maintain technology 
leadership;
• deepen our customer relationships;
• acquire new capabilities 
and technologies;
• invest in our people; and
• maintain financial strength and flexibility. 
STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT 
AND GROWTH INITIATIVES
Spirent is recognised as an expert in test 
methodologies and the provision of new 
efficient and effective solutions for live, 
virtual and high speed, high density 
network deployment utilising a wide range 
of access technologies. As experts we 
work closely with industry thought leaders, 
standard setting bodies and researchers. 
This sets the priorities for investment in the 
business to adapt and change in order for 
it to remain competitive and sustainable.
There continue to be a number of themes 
which are driving change in our industry 
and where we see opportunities for  
Spirent to build revenue streams that 
are sustainable with long term growth 
potential. The following major themes 
remain the key objectives for our strategic 
development throughout 2016.
HIGH SPEED ETHERNET
Order intake grew 10 per cent year-on-year 
in 2015. Spirent offers leading test solutions 
for 100G and 400G Ethernet and is well 
positioned for the continued exponential 
growth in network bandwidth. The latest 
innovation to increase capacity in data 
centers is through the development of high 
speed Ethernet variants based on 25G, 
which will stimulate growth in our core 
business operations. Spirent was first to 
launch 2.5G and 5G based Ethernet switch 
testing solutions and in the fourth quarter 
of 2015 was first to market with a 50G test 
solution. In addition, we added Wi-Fi test 
capability to Spirent TestCenter
TM
; and 
updated and enhanced the user interface 
to support software as a service (“SaaS”) 
and web-based applications. 
CLOUD AND VIRTUALISATION
This represented 2 per cent of our 
business in 2015 and is an area expected 
to grow rapidly. We have developed and 
launched new solutions for testing cloud 
infrastructures and virtualisation. Proof of 
concept trials are in progress at major 
service providers, web services companies 
and e-commerce providers. The trials 
address the needs for telecom operators to 
test, measure and validate the migration of 
network functions and services to run in a 
cloud infrastructure. This is an important 
part of our strategy to expand our served 
customer base. These offerings include a 
SaaS solution, running multiple application 
methodologies, such as Cloud Stress.
MOBILITY INFRASTRUCTURE
Order intake grew 31 per cent in 2015. 
We have accelerated development to 
continue to grow in the lab test market 
for mobile core, Wi-Fi, IMS, Diameter and 
virtualisation. There are a large number 
of proof-of-concept trials in progress and 
we have secured new contract wins across 
the world with major service providers. 
Landslide EDGE has been developed 
to facilitate cell site turn-up and deliver 
remote and end-to-end validation 
in live networks. We have also added 
a key partnership for network visibility 
making a $5 million investment to take 
a 28 per cent stake in Jolata, Inc. The 
increasing trend for data usage driven 
“ 
As experts we work closely 
with industry thought 
leaders, standard setting 
bodies and researchers
”
Chief Executive Officer’s strategic review continued
8
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2015 “ 
The objective is to expand 
our served customer base 
in carriers worldwide
”
by video requirements is being satisfied 
with a new acceleration module to offer a 
massive increase in data test performance. 
Channels to market have been expanded, 
as has the technical capacity to support 
many more customer engagements. 
CYBER SECURITY
This represented 6 per cent of our 
business in 2015, and is expected to grow 
rapidly. More and more breaches are 
reported on a daily basis with increasing 
levels of damage impacting commercial, 
government and infrastructure networks 
and services. Aspects of security and 
safety concerns for connected vehicles are 
demanding new security test processes to 
which Spirent is actively responding. 
Security consulting has been added to 
provide threat detection services to test, 
measure and manage security risks, initially 
prioritising networks, wireless, applications, 
Internet of Things and automotive. We are 
utilising our expertise to supplement 
research efforts for the addition of new 
malware threat and fuzzing capabilities 
to our solutions. It is planned to enhance 
marketing initiatives to help expand our 
served markets to include enterprise 
customers in the financial services, 
healthcare and hospitality industries.
Vulnerability of the signals emanating 
from satellite navigation constellations 
is of increasing concern in critical safety, 
infrastructure and commercial systems. 
Further resources are being applied to 
offer test systems, including a cyber threat 
intelligence library, to allow customers to 
deliver robust position, navigation and 
timing metrics to their applications and 
infrastructure networks. 
ANALYTICS
Big data analytics and virtualisation 
are changing the landscape of service 
provision and assurance. Advances here 
have opened up the possibility not only to 
find errors rapidly but also to predict them 
so that issues can be averted. In addition, 
virtualisation enables test probes to be 
cost effectively inserted at any point in the 
network. Spirent’s leadership position in 
the service assurance market, along with 
our field proven analytics platform, 
presents a unique opportunity in the 
analytics market. In 2015 we developed 
and launched our first virtual probe and 
won a first contract with our new high 
performance analytics solution, InTouch 
CNA. This is a more versatile, easier to 
use and cost effective implementation 
of our powerful Customer Experience 
Management software system to address 
the rapid growth market in the next-
generation service assurance market. 
The objective is to expand our served 
customer base in carriers worldwide and 
to give additional competitive advantage 
to the deployment of Spirent technologies 
in live networks.
ADJACENT MARKETS (LONG TERM 
GROWTH INITIATIVES):
Internet of Things 
Our Internet of Things (“IoT”) initiatives 
combine capabilities across the Spirent 
portfolio as well as the specific 
development of new capabilities. As 
billions of devices become connected, 
mobile network operators and service 
providers face major challenges to 
manage service provision and quality 
levels. Spirent has products and services 
to enable and accelerate the development, 
launch and operations of devices, network 
management and optimisation. We plan 
to supply embedded software, test and 
assurance tools and systems to enable 
the development of the IoT. The initial 
offerings, to be announced from early 
2016, will be software as a client, 
connectivity and analytical tools.
Automotive
Our strategy to enter the test market for 
automotive data networks is to utilise 
Spirent’s expertise in Ethernet testing to 
focus initially on the development and 
deployment of Ethernet for in-vehicle 
system communications. We will also 
continue to serve automotive needs 
through positioning technologies and 
tools to test emergency call requirements.
ERIC HUTCHINSON 
Chief Executive Officer
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
9
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2015
