 GARRY WATTS
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
In our first full year as a listed 
company we continued to 
build on eight years of success. 
We added capacity across our 
national network, and we 
broke ground on two new-
build hospitals, due to open 
in 2017 .
Above all, we provided 
treatment of the highest 
quality to over 760,000 
patients, whilst improving  
or maintaining our already 
excellent staff, consultant and 
patient satisfaction scores. 
In a year when issues surrounding the 
provision of healthcare in the UK seemed  
to be in the news every day, I am pleased  
to report that our highly skilled staff were 
able to deliver outstanding treatment and 
care to more patients than ever before –  
and to the highest standards of safety and 
clinical outcomes.
Our financial performance in 2015 was  
good. In what was, at times, a challenging 
year, we achieved our eighth successive  
year of growth. Total revenue increased  
3.4% to £884.8 million; the result was a 
pro-forma profit after tax of £73.0 million* 
(2014: £71.6 million). 
We continue to invest significantly in  
our people, services, treatments, hospitals 
and equipment. In the year, we invested 
£109.5 million across the business, further 
reinforcing our position as the pre-eminent 
provider of private healthcare in the UK.
DIVIDEND
Subject to shareholder approval, the 
Company will pay a final dividend in respect 
of the 2015 year of 2.4 pence per ordinary 
share. Together with the interim dividend  
of 1.3 pence this amounts to a total annual 
dividend of 3.7 pence per ordinary share.  
This is in line with our stated dividend policy 
which aims to pay out around 20% of profit 
after taxation each year.
BOARD CHANGES
During the year, we saw the exit of Cinven, 
our long-standing private equity investor, 
and the resignation from the Board of its 
representative, Dr Supraj Rajagopalan.  
We wish Cinven and Supraj well in their 
future ventures.
We were delighted that Simon Rowlands 
consented to remain on the Board, given  
his experience both with the Company  
since 2007 and in the healthcare sector 
more widely.
In June, we welcomed Mediclinic 
International to our share register when  
they took a 29.9% strategic stake in Spire 
Healthcare. Mediclinic International is  
an international private healthcare group 
operating in South Africa, Switzerland  
and the Middle East. Danie Meintjes,  
their chief executive officer, joined our  
Board and we are already benefiting from  
his knowledge and international experience  
as we explore new ways in which we can 
develop our business. 
In March 2016, we announced that Rob 
Roger would be leaving the Company on  
30 June 2016 to take up a new CEO role  
at Vero Group, a large privately financed 
property business.
Rob has been with Spire for over nine  
years. As chief financial officer he played  
an integral part in the formation of Spire 
Healthcare in 2007, before becoming Chief 
Executive Officer in 2011. He has overseen 
the significant growth of the Group, both 
organically and through acquisition, and  
led the Company through its successful  
stock market debut in 2014. Rob and I have 
worked together for over five years and  
I will be sorry to see him depart. On behalf  
of us all at Spire, I wish him well in his  
new role.
I have resumed the role of Executive 
Chairman, and Andrew White, Chief 
Operating Officer, will join me and Simon 
Gordon on the Board as an Executive 
Director with effect from 1 July 2016. 
Andrew joined Spire Healthcare in November 
2015, and brings significant professional 
experience to the role. Further 
announcements regarding the Chief 
Executive Officer role will be made  
as appropriate.
GOVERNANCE
Your Board and its committees have 
developed strongly during the year, with  
*  Pro-forma profit is calculated as earnings after tax adjusted 
for exceptional items. For 2014, pro-forma profit is 
calculated as earnings after tax adjusted for the capital 
restructuring, exceptional items, to conform the property 
rental base, PLC operating costs and the net profit arising on 
the sale of property and other assets (detailed on page 32).
Executive Chairman’s  
statement
Building on success
STRATEGIC REPORT
6 Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 the Directors learning from each other and 
working together effectively. We conducted 
an internal evaluation of the Board and 
individual Directors, and will complete  
a further evaluation in 2016.
The highest levels of clinical governance  
and performance are central to our  
business – a review of our performance  
in this area is always the first substantive 
item on Board agendas. 
The Board’s Clinical Governance and Safety 
Committee is independently chaired by 
Professor Dame Janet Husband. Her report 
on this committee’s activities can be found 
on pages 72 and 73. 
In 2015, we welcomed the Care Quality 
Commission (CQC) to seven of our hospitals 
as it started to implement its new inspection 
regime. Details of the CQC inspections can 
be found on pages 34 to 37 . We are fully 
supportive of strong regulation and will 
continue to work with the CQC, sharing  
best practice and developing our culture  
of continuous improvement.
The Board is united in its aim that all our 
hospitals should be CQC rated as ‘Good’ 
or ‘Outstanding’.
OUR GREATEST ASSET
We have all read of the challenges the UK 
faces in recruiting, training, developing  
and retaining skilled nurses and doctors.
Delivering outstanding healthcare to 
thousands of patients every day of the  
year is an intensely personal business.  
Our committed nurses, allied healthcare 
professionals, doctors and everyone else  
in our hospitals are our greatest asset and  
I cannot overstate the gratitude of the  
Board, our shareholders, and above all,  
our patients, for their unstinting efforts 
throughout the year.
You can read more about the emphasis  
we place on the recruitment, training, 
development and management of  
the skilled individuals who make Spire 
Healthcare such a special organisation  
in ‘Our people’, on pages 42 to 45. 
LOOKING AHEAD
The strong underlying growth drivers 
present in the UK healthcare market are 
incontrovertible. They present a range of 
outstanding opportunities for healthcare 
providers of the highest quality such as 
Spire Healthcare. I believe that we have  
the management team, staff, culture  
and resources in place to become the  
UK’s leading private healthcare provider  
and a key presence in the wider UK 
healthcare economy.
Garry Watts 
Executive Chairman 
16 March 2016
Our second, purpose-built Specialist  
Care Centre, which opened in November, 
houses two linear accelerators, a 6D 
robotic couch, a wide-bore CT scanner 
equipped with 4D imaging capabilities 
and a chemotherapy suite, and offers the 
very best in cancer treatment and care. 
The centre will treat a broad range of 
cancers including breast, gynaecological, 
prostate, head, neck, skin and lung 
cancers, from diagnosis to treatment, 
using state-of-the-art treatment and 
verification techniques.
SPECIALIST CARE CENTRE, BADDOW 
Read more on page 41
2015 highlights
PRIVATE HOSPITAL PROVIDER OF THE YEAR WIN FOR SECOND YEAR RUNNING
Read more about developments on 
pages 18 and 19
Spire Healthcare was named ‘Private 
hospital group of the year’ for the  
second year running at the HealthInvestor 
Awards in June. The 2015 competition 
was fierce with award submissions  
up by 20% on 2014, but despite this,  
Spire Healthcare still pipped six other 
organisations to the top spot.
Opened in June, the hospital’s third 
theatre will benefit more than 2,000 
self-paying, medically insured and NHS 
patients from the local area in its first  
12 months. This increased operating 
capacity means patients will be treated 
sooner and with more flexibility than  
ever before.
The £2.7 million laminar flow theatre  
will be complemented by the hospital’s 
nationally accredited sterile services unit, 
which places Spire Elland Hospital as  
the only hospital in the local area where 
the staff are able to sterilise operating 
instruments on-site.
SPIRE ELLAND HOSPITAL OPENS A THIRD OPERATING THEATRE
STRATEGIC REPORT
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
Spire Healthcare Group plc Annual Report 2015 7
