 !
10"|"Sprue"Aegis"plc"Annual"Report"and"Accounts"2015"
!
Strategic Report 
In this section 
!! Our business model at a glance 
!! Extension of BRK distribution deal 
!! Risks and risk management 
!! Quality assured and quality control 
!! Key performance indicators 
!! Group CEO review 
!! Finance review 
!! Corporate social responsibility 
 
Our business model at a glance 
The Sprue story started in 1998 when the 
business model was conceived by one of the 
two founders, Nick Rutter, who wanted to 
design and sell products that met the following 
criteria: 
!! Where existing product solutions were 
not meeting customer needs 
!! Products must have potential global 
product reach 
!! Products must use plastics and 
electronics as this was the area most 
familiar to Nick 
!! An ability to leverage economies of 
scale with low cost manufacturers in 
the Far East 
 
After a huge amount of product testing and 
validation work, Sprue launched the world’s first 
plug in smoke alarm and has gradually and 
significantly extended its range products to 
expand its range to become the business it is 
today with over 500 stock keeping units 
(“SKUs”) of smoke, CO and wireless products 
sold under 8 brands. 
 
PS101 - the world’s first plug in smoke alarm launched 2001 
 
Our customer -centric approach, combined with 
a comprehensive product range, world class 
third party manufacturing capabilities and third 
party distributors in Continental Europe 
combined with high barriers to entry through 
product certification, makes our business 
model robust and defensible.  In turn, this 
enables us to build strong, long lasting 
partnerships with key customers to maintain 
and gain market share.  Over time, we are 
aiming to be the market leader selling the 
brands of choice in every one of the markets we 
serve. 
The strong product and brand advocacy we 
have from being the supplier of choice of smoke 
and hearing impaired alarms to the UK Fire & 
Rescue Services who continue to fit our 
Thermoptek products today, supports the 
general broad customer loyalty and following 
we have been able to create.  This philosophy 
shapes our business model. 
Our flexible sourcing model enables us to 
expand our product range leveraging the 
economies of scale at each of our smoke and 
CO product manufacturers.  Our manufacturing 
partners continue to invest   to expand, develop 
and enhance their engineering and 
manufacturing facilities to deliver best in class 
products. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  !
11"|"Sprue"Aegis"plc"Annual"Report"and"Accounts"2015"
!
Sprue operates from worldwide locations:
 
                 
Third party logistics warehouse in Cambridge 
                                       
                                                                           HQ & Technology Centre in Coventry 
