 Strategic Report
20 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 201 4 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Bill Oliver
Chief Executive
The combination of our extensive experience, robust business 
model and consistent strategy has come together this year 
to generate exceptional growth for the business. This has 
resulted in record results with an increase in profit before all 
tax of 68% to £138.1m (2013: £82.2.m) and a 17% increase in 
net asset value per share to 324.9p (2013: 278.8p). 
This successful year has seen many high points, the most 
recent being the receipt of a resolution to grant planning 
permission in November 2014 for the redevelopment of the 
New Covent Garden Market sites at Nine Elms in London. 
We are targeting to achieve unconditional status in the first 
half of 2015; this will be a hugely significant milestone for the 
project and the business as a whole and will have a substantial 
and positive impact on the valuation of our portfolio. 
Our other major projects, the £1bn regeneration of 
Longbridge, Birmingham and the £450m Bay Campus for 
Swansea University, have made excellent progress during 
the period. The first completed building at Bay Campus was 
handed over to the University on time and within budget in 
December 2014, whilst the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer 
store at Longbridge is now under construction and scheduled 
to complete in time for Christmas 2015 trading. In line 
with the growing prominence of Longbridge as a business 
location, we moved our Head Office there in October 2014. 
The development, a flagship project for the Company, 
exemplifies every facet of our regeneration skills and is a 
natural base from which St. Modwen can continue its growth. 
Both Longbridge and the Bay Campus contribute to our active 
pipeline of commercial development activity across the UK 
which now amounts to over 3m sq ft, and we are well positioned 
to capitalise on the continued upturn in the market. This pipeline 
and the increase in our construction activity, not only 
underlines the recovery of the regional property market but also 
demonstrates our ability to think long-term and to manage our 
5,900-acre land bank effectively throughout economic cycles. 
1 7% increase
in net asset value 
per share
Secure excellent returns
Through a focus on 
long-term significant 
added value
While protecting 
our assets
See pages 08–11
We have achieved 
significant progress 
across all of our 
major projects as well 
as increasing 
our pipeline of active 
development 
opportunities to over 
3m sq ft of space. St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 201 4 21
Strategic Report 01–43 Financial Statements 44–85 Additional Information 86
Our residential business has performed well in the period 
delivering an overall profit increase of 167% to £24m 
(2013: £9m) with good sales rates being achieved across 
the Country. With the Persimmon joint venture now 
firmly established, we are focusing our attention on our 
housebuilding brand, St. Modwen Homes, which completed 
258 new homes over the period and has nine active sites. 
Meanwhile, the Persimmon joint venture completed 562 new 
homes in the period from eight sites. 
We continue to look at new and innovative ways to use our land 
in order to maximise its value and to ensure that it is developed 
to best complement its surroundings. Against the backdrop of 
a diminishing energy supply across the UK, we are pursuing a 
number of energy-related opportunities, including the delivery 
of gas fired Combined Cycle Gas Turbine power stations on 
two sites. Both are at differing stages of the planning process 
but we anticipate further progress for at least one of these 
opportunities during 2015. 
STRATEGY OVERVIEW
Our strategy remains fundamentally unchanged. We continue 
to add value to our £1.3bn land bank through planning and 
asset management initiatives that are carried out by our regional 
teams of skilled property professionals. At the same time, 
we prepare sites for redevelopment through remediation and 
securing planning permissions and dispose of those assets to 
which we can no longer add value in order to release capital 
for reinvestment. 
This strategy, supported by our long-term approach to 
development and our proven business model, has enabled 
us to create value throughout the cycle and to take immediate 
advantage of the market recovery as reflected by record profits 
in the period. 
We will remain true to this long-term strategy and adopt a 
pragmatic approach as residential and commercial markets 
continue to improve. As the economy gets stronger, we will 
ensure that our business grows by increasing our active pipeline 
of development opportunities, creating a firm base for the 
continuing delivery of shareholder value. 
MARKET OVERVIEW
We are one of the few property companies in the UK to have 
stood firm in having a regional development bias whilst also 
progressing projects in and around London. With the economic 
recovery now gathering momentum, we are already well 
positioned to capitalise on the upturn, particularly in the regions. 
Currently, we have an active pipeline of over 3m sq ft of 
commercial development across the UK, and we continue to 
increase our construction levels across our commercial portfolio 
as companies look to expand or move into new premises. 
We are mindful of the increasing cost of construction materials 
and continue to work closely with our supply chain to sustain 
build quality. We are also undertaking some speculative 
development and have been successful in acquiring new 
opportunities in competitive situations, which we will start to 
build out in 2015. 
As tenant demand improves across the UK, this has had a 
positive impact on rent roll across our commercial portfolio and 
we are witnessing a steadily increasing stream of enquiries. 
There is good take up across our T own Centre regeneration 
projects, notably at Wembley Central where we will soon 
conclude works to the final phase of this £90m mixed-use 
development in London. At our T echnology Retail Park in Rugby 
we are already 100% pre-let on the 70,000 sq ft out-of-town 
retail scheme and, in addition to securing planning permission 
for Marks & Spencer in June 2014, we are now in detailed 
discussions with a number of national retailers seeking to take 
space in Longbridge T own Centre in 2015. 
In terms of the residential market, demand has been sustained 
but there are concerns over interest rate rises, changes to the 
mortgage market and the usual uncertainty in the lead-up to the 
2015 UK General Election. However, there remains a structural 
lack of housing supply across the Country and, as a result, 
demand for our land from national housebuilders continues 
to increase. Similarly, good sales rates have been maintained 
throughout the year both for the Persimmon joint venture 
and St. Modwen Homes sites and we anticipate a sustained 
performance into 2015. 
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
We will continue to build on the success of 2014 over the 
next 12 months and now look to take full advantage of the 
market recovery. We will focus our efforts on delivering our 
commercial sites in the regions, growing our active commercial 
development pipeline of over 3m sq ft, and progressing our 
key projects, including the redevelopment of the New Covent 
Garden Market sites.
We expect the current favourable residential market conditions 
in the regions to be sustained throughout the year, and through 
the planning process we will bring new sites forward for 
sale or development, as well as focusing on delivery within 
St. Modwen Homes and the Persimmon joint venture. 
With a record year now firmly under our belts, we are in a very 
good position to grow the business further in 2015 and deliver 
another year of success for our shareholders.
Bill Oliver
Chief Executive
2
nd
 February 2015
