 Looking back over the last 12 months alone, there are many 
examples that illustrate these values in action. 
We think long-term – continually restocking the development 
pipeline with new opportunities: 
Our successful business model is based on 
a long-term approach to regeneration and 
development. Be it a new acquisition offering 
excellent potential for development and income, entering 
a new marketplace that offers a recurring revenue stream 
or building speculatively in an area with good prospects for 
economic growth, this long-term approach ensures we are 
continually adding value to our existing 6,000 acre land bank 
as well as creating new opportunities for its growth. 
In this way, we have maintained an active commercial 
development pipeline this year, which now stands at 1.6m sq ft. 
As we complete our developments, we seek to restock 
the pipeline with new opportunities. For example, Longbridge 
has been transformed from a disused car factory to a living, 
breathing new community and a key business destination 
for Birmingham. At its heart is a new Town Centre for which 
the second phase completed in November 2015 marked 
by opening of the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer and other 
national retailers.
In the coming year, new opportunities include a variety of 
schemes throughout the UK, such as a 214,000 sq ft design 
and build project for Travis Perkins in Whitley, Coventry and 
148,000 sq ft of speculative development in Avonmouth, Bristol 
of which over 50% is now let and sold.
We are innovative – creating new revenue streams:
We have the confidence in our own abilities 
to tackle complex schemes and we embrace 
challenges, always adopting a pragmatic approach 
which enables us to manage risk and make 
the right decisions for business growth whilst delivering 
shareholder value. 
This year is no exception as we completed a major milestone 
for the New Covent Garden Market site which achieved 
unconditional status in April. This is a particularly complex 
and innovative development in terms of planning, design 
and engineering. 
“This exceptional set of results is 
testament to our expertise across the 
many facets of regeneration.”
BILL SHANNON
Chairman
+25%
TOTAL DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR (p)
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
3.30
3.63
4.00
4.60
5.75
As we approach our anniversary marking 30 years as a listed 
company, I am extremely pleased to report on a record set of 
results for the year ended 30
th
 November 2015. The business 
has achieved a 27% increase in shareholders' equity NAV per 
share to 413.5p (2014: 325.1p) and profit before all tax of 
£258.4m (2014: £135.4m).
This exceptional set of results is testament to our 
expertise across the many facets of regeneration, ranging 
from remediation and planning skills, to construction 
and development, through to project delivery and 
asset management. 
These skills and expertise are driven by our set of core values 
that define both the business and the approach we adopt to 
manage, develop and extract maximum value from our land 
bank. At every point of the development lifecycle ‘we think  
long-term’, ‘we are innovative’ and ‘we do what we say’. 
Our 30
th
 anniversary in 2016 will provide an excellent 
opportunity to reflect on how the business has grown with 
these values at its core, whilst also looking forward to the 
next 30 years of progress. 
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015
Strategic Report
4
Chairman’s Statement We also demonstrated innovation through the introduction of 
‘Income Producing Residential’ to our portfolio. This comprises 
two new revenue streams for the business that highlight our 
ability to increase the flow of development profits and create 
further sources of income:
• St. Modwen Student Living, Bay Campus – to coincide with 
the opening of the Bay Campus for Swansea University, we 
established a team of facilities management professionals to 
manage the retained student accommodation and associated 
facilities for this major new asset in South Wales. 
• Private Rented Sector (PRS) – having monitored this 
growing marketplace over the last couple of years, in 2015 we 
completed two initial PRS schemes in Wembley and Rugby. 
We expect to grow in this market in 2016/17. 
Finally, the growth of St. Modwen Homes shows how we 
can assess our existing land bank carefully and bring new, 
value-adding opportunities to life. 
We do what we say – delivering for all our stakeholders: 
As a trusted developer, we can be relied upon to 
speak plainly and knowledgeably to our current and 
prospective partners. In addition, when we know 
a decision is the right one, having undertaken the 
appropriate analysis, we will always follow through. 
During 2015 we have taken advantage of strong investor 
interest by disposing of a number of mature assets to which 
we could no longer add material value. At the same time 
we acquired new assets from which we can extract good 
latent value. 
The acquisition of Kirkby Town Centre is a good example 
of our commitment to acquire valuable new property. In a 
£35.8m transaction, we added this Town Centre scheme, 
which combines development and income producing potential, 
to the carrying amount of our £1.7bn* portfolio. 
We also deliver on our promises in terms of the development 
of design and build projects for major UK occupiers. 
This includes Screwfix, which in 2015 extended its existing 
distribution hub in Stoke-on-Trent by 310,000 sq ft to 
630,000 sq ft. Following the completion of this project, we 
converted it into an opportunity to deliver further value for 
shareholders by disposing of the asset for £18.1m to the 
Prudential Assurance Co. Ltd.
From a major project perspective, in 2013 we made a 
commitment to Swansea University that we would complete 
the new Bay Campus by September 2015. This year we 
achieved exactly this, opening the first phase, comprising 
775,000 sq ft, to 917 new students on time and within budget. 
Dividend
Our policy is to increase our dividends in line with the growth 
in net asset value and to reflect the Company’s results. For the 
year ended 30
th
 November 2015, the Board is recommending 
a 25% increase in the total dividend for the year to 5.75p per 
share (2014: 4.6p per share), giving a final dividend for the year 
of 3.85p per share (2014: 3.137p per share). The final dividend 
will be paid on 1
st
 April 2016 to shareholders on the register at 
4
th
 March 2016.
People
These record results would not have been possible without the 
passion of our talented team of dedicated staff. Embodying our 
values of innovation, commitment and long-term thinking, 
they are critical to the success of the business and I would 
like to express my thanks to everyone at St. Modwen for their 
continuing valuable contribution. 
Board changes
In March 2015 John Salmon retired from the Board after more 
than nine years’ service. His position as Audit Committee 
Chairman has been assumed by Ian Bull, who joined the Board 
in September 2014. Ian is currently Chief Financial Officer and 
main board director at Ladbrokes plc.
We welcomed Rob Hudson to the Board in September 2015 
on his appointment as Group Finance Director. Rob, previously 
Group Financial Controller at British Land Company plc, has 
wide-ranging financial skills and experience together with 
property sector knowledge which makes him an excellent 
addition to the Board. 
Prospects
We have a long track record of unrivalled regeneration 
expertise, robust asset management skills and a proven ability 
to realise value from our extensive land bank. 2016 marks 
30 years of such success and we see continued progress in 
each of these areas of the business in the year ahead.
Whilst we are currently experiencing macro-economic 
uncertainty, we anticipate a continued, if slow, overall 
improvement in the UK economy with sustained growth in 
the regions. Our extensive regional portfolio provides us with 
a good base from which we will continue to realise residential 
and commercial development opportunities, either from our 
existing land bank or through new acquisitions. In addition, our 
retained portfolio of assets and new ventures, including income 
producing residential, should ensure a continued stream of 
recurring income that continues to underpin the business 
running costs. 
We therefore look towards 2016 with a sense of optimism and 
look forward to growing the business further and enhancing 
shareholder value. 
Bill Shannon
Chairman
1
st
 February 2016
*  On a proportionally consolidated basis including share of joint ventures.  
Please see note 2c to the Group Financial Statements.
5
Additional Information 
165–176
Financial Statements 
100–164
Corporate Governance 
46–99
Strategic Report 
2–45
