 Strategic Report
12 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 201 4 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Bill Shannon
Non-executive Chairman
This is a record year 
for St. Modwen with 
the business 
achieving profit 
before all tax 
of £138. 1m.
I am very proud to be reporting on a record year for  
St. Modwen with the business achieving 17% growth in net 
asset value to 324.9p per share (2013: 278.8p per share) and 
profit before all tax of £138.1m (2013: £82.2m). 
This outstanding set of results has been helped by strong 
valuation gains across our portfolio attributable to our 
planning and asset management initiatives, combined with 
positive movements in the UK residential and commercial 
marketplaces which reflect the overall upturn in the economy. 
Sitting alongside our robust business strategy, at the heart 
of our success and inherent to St. Modwen, is a set of core 
values. They reflect our strengths and our approach to all 
facets of regeneration. In a year of record profits, these 
values have never been more relevant. We have set them out 
below, together with examples from our business activities 
highlighting our individual approach.
We think long-term
Over the last few years we have continued to focus on our 
regional portfolio, placing strong emphasis on asset managing 
our income producing properties and preparing sites for 
delivery for when the market conditions are appropriate. 
This long-term approach has positioned us well, enabling 
us to respond quickly to the increase in demand across the 
regional market as it continues to recover and benefit from the 
meaningful contribution the regions have made to this year’s 
record results. 
Our long-term approach to regeneration is exemplified by the 
£1bn regeneration of Longbridge, Birmingham, one of our 
major projects. Having started on site in 2007, we continued 
to deliver this important scheme throughout the recession, 
creating hundreds of new homes, the new 250,000 sq ft 
Bournville College and a 150,000 sq ft T echnology Park. 
We have since launched the new £100m T own Centre and in 
October 2014 we started on site with the second phase retail 
anchor, a 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store, drawn to our 
Longbridge development because of its vibrancy, connectivity 
and growing population. We look forward to welcoming more 
national high street brands to the T own Centre during 2015. 
 15 %
 increase
in total dividend 
for the year St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 201 4 13
Strategic Report 01–43 Financial Statements 44–85 Additional Information 86
We are innovative
We are continuously looking at new and inventive ways to 
develop our brownfield land portfolio in order to generate the 
best value for the business, our shareholders and partners and 
local communities.
We have also applied this innovative approach to strengthen 
further our financial base, pursuing and securing alternative 
forms of funding to reduce reliance on bank finance whilst 
decreasing our gearing levels. In the last three years, we have 
issued a retail bond in October 2012 which raised £80m, 
completed a £49m equity placing in March 2013 and, in 
February 2014, successfully launched a £100m convertible 
bond. Also in 2014, we completely restructured our bank 
finance such that all of our corporate and joint venture facilities 
now extend until at least 2018.
We do what we say
No one can deny we are a straight-talking company and it 
is this direct approach that has cemented some important 
partnerships for the business and resulted in the success that 
we are reporting on today. Colleagues, customers, suppliers, 
shareholders and major stakeholders rely on us to deliver on the 
promises and commitments we make to bring about long-term 
sustainable regeneration. 
We acquired the 2,500-acre portfolio of BP sites in 2009 at 
the height of the recession and are now delivering on our 
plans by transforming swathes of former industrial land across 
South Wales into an innovative mix of housing, education and 
energy-related projects. These include a 30-acre Solar Park 
at Baglan Bay which we launched in March 2014, the £450m 
Bay Campus for Swansea University and the 1,060-acre 
residential-led regeneration at Coed Darcy in Neath.
DIVIDEND
In recent years, we have increased our dividends in line with the 
growth in net asset value and to reflect the Company’s results. 
For the year ended 30
th
 November 2014, the Board has decided 
to recommend a 15% increase in the total dividend for the year 
to 4.60p per share (2013: 4.00p per share) giving a final dividend 
for the year of 3.137p per share (2013: 2.67p per share). 
The final dividend will be paid on 2
nd
 April 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 6
th
 March 2015. 
PEOPLE
The dedication and energy of our staff personifies our values 
and they have made a significant contribution to the delivery 
of this year’s excellent set of results. Therefore, I would like to 
thank everyone at St. Modwen for their ongoing commitment, 
hard work and determination throughout the last 12 months. 
BOARD CHANGES
We continue to refresh the composition of the Board to ensure 
that it is best placed to operate effectively. In the year, John 
Salmon, Audit Committee Chairman announced his intention to 
retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM after 
more than nine years’ service. On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank John for his significant 
commitment and valued contribution to St. Modwen and to 
wish him well for the future. 
John will be succeeded as Audit Committee Chairman by 
Ian Bull, who joined the Board as a non-executive director in 
September 2014. Ian is Chief Financial Officer and a main board 
director at Ladbrokes plc, a position he has held since 2011. 
His strong financial and commercial pedigree will complement 
the existing experience of the Board and I am delighted 
that he will be continuing John’s excellent work as Audit 
Committee Chairman. 
We announced in December 2014 that Michael Dunn, Group 
Finance Director, would be leaving the Company. The search 
for his successor, which will consider both internal and external 
candidates, is already well advanced. Mike has played an 
important part in the Company’s success since his appointment 
in 2010 and on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank him for 
his valuable contribution and wish him well for the future. 
PROSPECTS
We are a national business with a UK-wide portfolio of 
commercial and residential development opportunities. 
We have clear visibility on the progression of plans for our 
major projects and anticipate further growth in commercial 
development activity across the UK, leading us to extend our 
active pipeline of opportunities throughout 2015 and beyond. 
Our residential business continues to go from strength to 
strength both in terms of its size and the reputation of the 
brand, and we anticipate sustained levels of performance in the 
coming year. 
We remain well positioned to benefit from the growth potential 
in the UK economy and the property market as a whole and we 
look forward to further success in 2015 when we will continue 
to add value to our portfolio to ensure good long-term returns 
for our shareholders. 
Bill Shannon
Chairman
2
nd
 February 2015
