 Strategic Report
02
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
AT A GLANCE
Stride Gaming is an online gaming operator in both the bingo-led and social 
gaming market, using its proprietary and purchased software to provide online 
bingo and social gaming to players. Stride Gaming only operates in 
regulated markets. 
Online bingo pioneers since 2013
In the real-money gaming market, Stride Gaming is focused on the UK market, is 
licensed, and only operates from the regulated jurisdictions of the UK and Alderney.
Social gaming expertise
InfiApps, an internationally focused mobile social gaming company, gives 
Stride Gaming presence in the social gaming segment of online gaming, 
across new international markets.
The Group operates a multi-branded 
strategy, which includes the online 
bingo brands Kitty Bingo, Lucky 
Pants Bingo, Bingo Extra, Jackpot 
Café, Jackpot Liner and King 
Jackpot, together with the online 
casino brands Spin and Win, 
Magical Vegas and Big Top. 
The acquisition complements the current platform 
and enables Stride Gaming to offer its content in 
social gaming as well as expand the real money 
gaming offering in the App vertical. InfiApps 
operates multiple brands with the primary 
brand being Slot Bonanza.
500k+
monthly active 
users of InfiApps’ 
games worldwide
1.6m
registered players
52,000
funded players
9
online gaming brands
$17.4bn
forecast in worldwide 
social gaming revenue 
by 2019
*
*  Source: Transparency 
Market Research CORPORATE Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
03
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
90+
proprietary games
Proprietary platform
The Group’s proprietary platform ensures that it can optimise the gaming 
experience without needing to rely on third-party software providers or pay 
additional royalty costs. 
Having control of the software underpinning the Group’s operations will 
also enable easier entry into other regulated jurisdictions. The Company also 
launched a new responsive platform (“RAD”), which enables Stride Gaming 
to maintain a consistent user experience across a multitude of devices, as 
well as enabling the Group to increase its mobile-centric customer base. 
