 Stock Spirits Group | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 04
There is still much to 
do, but I am confident 
that the measures 
being taken are the 
correct ones, and  
with a fully motivated 
management team  
in place, I am sure  
we can deliver on  
our objectives
Chairman’s statement
Strategic	report
Stock	Spirits	Group	|	Annual	Report	&	Accounts	2015 04 Stock Spirits Group | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 05
As	Chairman	of	Stock	Spirits	Group	PLC,	 
I	am	pleased	to	present	our	Annual	
Report	&	Accounts	for	the	year	ended	
31	December	2015.
Since	becoming	Chairman	of	Stock	
Spirits	I	have	met	with	many	
shareholders	and	listened	to	their	
views.	These	views	have	been	
considered,	fed	back	to	my	Board	
colleagues	and	discussed	accordingly.	 
I	look	forward	to	meeting	investors	 
(old	and	new)	again	in	the	near	future.
2015	was	a	very	difficult	year	for	the	
Group	in	Poland	where	a	number	of	
factors	adversely	impacted	our	overall	
results.	Whilst	the	Group	results	are	
highly	influenced	by	the	results	of	the	
Polish	business,	it	is	important	not	to	
overlook	the	performance	in	our	other	
markets	which	have	delivered	strong	
results,	in	some	cases	ahead	of	our	
expectations.	In	particular	in	the	Czech	
Republic	and	Slovakia	we	have	continued	
to	demonstrate	our	strength	and	success	
in	new	product	development	and	our	
capability	to	work	with	partners	and	
grow	their	brands	with	equal	
commitment	to	our	own	portfolio.
Our	ongoing	focus	on	effective	cash	
management	across	the	Group,	resulted	
in	strong	cash	generation	again	in	2015,	
and	we	ended	the	year	with	a	robust	
balance	sheet	and	net	debt	of	€57.2m.	
The	need	to	issue	revised	profit	
guidance	in	November	2015	was	very	
disappointing,	especially	given	the	
various	initiatives	the	team	had	
undertaken	during	the	year	to	
overcome	the	challenges	we	face	in	
Poland.	As	a	consequence	of	issuing	
the	revised	profit	guidance	and	the	
subsequent	impact	on	the	share	price,	 
I	initiated	a	review	of	Group	strategy,	
as	well	as	a	full	‘root	and	branch’	review	
of	the	Polish	market	and	our	business	
in	that	country.
Our	CEO,	Chris	Heath,	will	cover	the	
Polish	review	in	his	section	of	this	
report	so	I	will	not	go	into	detail	here.
The	Board's	key	conclusions	arising	
from	the	Group	Strategic	Review	are:
• The	principal	elements	of	our	
strategic	goals	outlined	at	the	time	
of	the	Group’s	Initial	Public	Offering	
in	October	2013	are	still	valid.	
However	we	cannot	ignore	the	
significant	changes	in	the	Polish	
market	and	the	ongoing	difficulty	of	
completing	meaningful	acquisitions	
in	the	Central	and	Eastern	European	
region.	The	latter	has	been	impacted	
by	the	effective	elimination,	in	the	
short-term,	of	two	of	the	principal	
countries	previously	earmarked	as	
potential	acquisition	targets	i.e.	
Ukraine	and	Belarus.
• The	Board	believes	that	the	Group	
is	currently	too	dependent	on	the	
Polish	business,	especially	in	an	
environment	where	margins	are	
under	severe	pressure	from	
competitors.	We	will	therefore	
continue	to	seek	value-accretive	
acquisitions	to	grow	the	footprint	 
of	the	business.	However,	the	area	
targeted	for	geographic	expansion	
will	be	broadened	to	include	 
other	European	countries	 
beyond	Central	and	Eastern	 
Europe	and	we	will	consider	larger	
deals	which	will	move	the	dial.
“Stock	Prestige	combines	our	
heritage	with	our	modern	approach	
to	great	effect,	creating	a	top-quality	
spirit	to	be	enjoyed	by	all.” Stock Spirits Group | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 06
• In	addition,	a	number	of	assets	have	
been	identified	which	we	feel	are	
intrinsically	undervalued.	If	we	are	
unable	to	deliver	an	enhancement	
in	the	value	of	these	assets	in	the	
short	term,	we	will	seek	other	
opportunities	to	realise	their	
intrinsic	value,	which	may	result	in	
their	disposal.
• There	will	be	a	renewed	focus	to	
further	extend	the	portfolio	of	third	
party	products	in	our	core	markets,	
utilising	the	strength	of	our	
distribution	platforms	which	will	
help	to	diversify	and	strengthen	our	
product	portfolios.
• An	ongoing	review	of	the	cost	base	
has	identified	a	number	of	
opportunities	to	deliver	savings,	
which	will	be	partly	reinvested	in	
other	areas	of	the	business	that	we	
intend	to	strengthen.	This	will	
include	significant	investment	in	
upgrading	our	Sales	and	Marketing	
capabilities.
• With	regard	to	shareholder	returns,	
should	the	business	not	announce	a	
meaningful	M&A	transaction	in	the	
near	term,	the	Board	intends	to	
increase	the	dividend	and	to	
distribute	surplus	cash	to	
shareholders.	Ahead	of	this,	the	
Board	is	recommending	a	final	
dividend	payable	in	respect	of	the	
full	year	2015	of	€0.0455	per	share	
(2014:	€0.025).	The	total	dividend	
payable	in	respect	of	2015	will	 
be	some	55%	higher	than	the	
previous	year.
In	November	2015,	the	Group	
completed	a	very	successful	refinancing	
process.	The	new	facility	provides	the	
Group	with	greater	flexibility,	
considerable	headroom	and	significantly	
lower	finance	costs	going	forwards.
People
Our	people	are	key	assets	of	the	
business	and	I	would	like	to	recognise	
the	commitment	of	all	our	employees	
and	thank	them	for	their	ongoing	
contribution	and	support	during	this	
difficult	period.
Strategic	report
Chairman’s statement continued Stock Spirits Group | Annual Report & Accounts 2015 07
There	have	been	no	changes	to	the	
Directors’	Remuneration	Policy,	details	
of	which	are	contained	within	the	
corporate	governance	section	of	this	
report.	Executive	Directors	and	senior	
managers’	interests	remain	fully	aligned	
with	shareholders	as	the	majority	have	
a	very	significant	personal	investment	in	
the	Company.
Governance
I	would	firstly	like	to	thank	Jack	Keenan,	
who	retired	from	the	Board	as	
Chairman	in	May	2015.	Jack	oversaw	
the	business	in	its	transition	from	a	
private	equity	owned	business	to	a	
public	company	on	the	London	Stock	
Exchange.	My	Board	colleagues	and	I	
wish	Jack	well	in	his	retirement.
Following	my	appointment	as	Chairman,	
the	Board	subsequently	appointed	Mirek	
Stachowicz	as	an	Independent	Non-
Executive	Director.	Mirek,	who	is	already	
making	an	important	contribution,	brings	
extensive	experience	of	Central	and	
Eastern	Europe,	and	Poland	in	particular,	
together	with	a	wealth	of	FMCG	
knowledge.	I	welcome	Mirek	to	the	
Board	and	look	forward	to	working	 
with	him.
Andrew	Cripps	was	appointed	in	
November	as	the	Senior	Independent	
Director	following	my	appointment	as	
Chairman.	All	committee	compositions	
are	fully	compliant	with	the	Corporate	
Governance	Code,	see	page	62	of	this	
report	for	further	details.
I	am	personally	very	committed	to	
high	standards	of	corporate	
governance.	The	Board	and	its	sub	
committees	have	met	regularly	
throughout	the	year	and	full	
evaluations	have	been	undertaken	and	
discussed.	In	addition,	a	detailed	
review	of	controls	and	processes	was	
initiated	across	the	Group,	and	
especially	in	Poland.	Consequently	a	
significant	amount	of	work	has	been	
undertaken	to	strengthen	and	
improve	our	control	environment,	and	
where	appropriate	systems	and	
procedures	have	been	changed.	 
This	work	has	been	a	key	priority	and	
is	now	nearing	completion	in	Poland	
and	is	being	rolled	out	in	the	rest	of	
our	jurisdictions	in	2016.
More	details	on	our	corporate	
governance	are	provided	later	in	the	
report,	as	well	as	the	reports	from	 
the	committee	chairmen	of	our	
Remuneration,	Audit	and	Nominations	
committees.	I	thank	the	Executive	and	
Non-Executive	Directors	with	whom	I	
serve	for	their	support	and	insight	in	
helping	to	run	the	Group	as	effectively	
as	possible.
Our	new	auditors,	KPMG	have	managed	
a	very	smooth	transition	from	our	
previous	auditors.	We	continue	to	work	
with	Ernst	&	Young	as	advisors	for	other	
services	such	as	tax,	debt	advisory	and	
transaction	services,	and	other	advisors	
for	more	specialist	engagements.
Looking ahead
Firstly,	I	want	to	reiterate	that	having	
completed	both	a	strategic	and	
operational	review,	your	Board	and	I	are	
fully	committed	to	turning	around	the	
fortunes	of	the	Group	and	returning	it	
to	sustainable	long-term	growth.
The	business	has	many	strengths	
which	we	must	build	on,	including	our	
exceptional	brands,	our	proven	
capability	in	new	product	
development,	a	strong	financial	
structure,	our	leading	edge	
production	facilities,	and	of	course	
our	people.	There	is	still	much	to	do,	
but	I	am	confident	that	the	measures	
being	taken	are	the	correct	ones,	and	
with	a	fully	motivated	management	
team	in	place,	I	am	sure	we	can	deliver	
on	our	objectives.
David Maloney 
Chairman 
10	March	2016
