 06
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
Strategic Report
Highlights
 » Listed on AIM raising £11.2 million 
before expenses
 » Delivered record-level growth across 
all the key performance indicators of 
the business
 » Acquired InfiApps, to move into the 
social gaming segment of online gaming
 » Added three new brands 
to the platform: Bingo Extra, 
Magical Vegas and Big Top Casino 
 » Further development of proprietary 
software and in-house platform 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear shareholder,
On behalf of the Board, I am delighted to present Stride Gaming’s 
results for the year ended 31 August 2015. The Group has 
performed strongly in the period and is well positioned for 
2016 and beyond. 
This year was a transformational year for the Group. We listed 
on AIM in an oversubscribed placing, raising £11.2 million before 
expenses, delivered record-level growth across all the key 
performance indicators of the business, acquired InfiApps to 
move into the social gaming segment of online gaming in line 
with our strategy, added three new brands to the platform 
and continued to develop our proprietary software and 
in-house platforms. 
The response to the Group’s admission to AIM has been extremely 
positive and the Company’s shares have performed well since 
the listing, which we believe demonstrates confidence in the 
Group’s strategic plan and in the management team’s ability 
to deliver and generate returns.
Stride Gaming’s overall strategy is to become a market leader 
in the soft gaming verticals of the online gaming industry 
and to expand our presence in the UK and in international 
markets. Our listing has enabled us to accelerate our organic 
and acquisitive growth strategy and take advantage of the 
opportunities that exist in the sector. We are clear that the 
global online gaming market will continue to be shaped by 
further consolidation as a result of increased regulation and 
taxes, and the need to add scale. In addition, the appeal of 
social gaming is growing significantly. This environment 
only serves to enhance our growth prospects and we intend 
to take full advantage of it by continuing with our stated 
organic and acquisitive growth strategy. I am pleased to 
report that the Group is making excellent progress on 
delivering on its stated strategy.
our market
page 11 CORPORATE Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
07
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
Major shareholders
As at 12 November 2015 the following interests of shareholders in excess of 3% have been notified to the Company:
Number of 
shares held
Shares as % 
of issued 
share capital
GAL Holdings Ltd 21,776,838 42.45%
Pershing Nominees Limited 4,604,368 8.98%
Geneva Management Group as trustee of Storge Trust 4,366,937 8.51%
Poppy Investments Limited 4,242,983 8.27%
Bedell Trustees Limited as Trustee of Blue Rock Trust 3,732,268 7.28%
Ukudla Commodities Limited 1,870,831 3.65%
Guardian Trust Company Limited as trustee of Alon Trust 2,249,999 4.39%
Hydaco Holdings Pty Ltd 1,831,298 3.57%
As part of our buy and build strategy, as well as monitoring 
opportunities to expand into complementary verticals, we have 
successfully completed three acquisitions in the year, the 
most recent of which, InfiApps, was completed on 31 July 2015. 
A profitable internationally focused mobile social gaming 
company, the acquisition of InfiApps was immediately earnings 
enhancing and it is pleasing to see that the business has 
integrated well into the Group and is making a positive 
contribution to our product offering. 
We also believe the market will be increasingly driven by the 
use of the mobile smartphone and tablets for gaming, and 
with the launch of our Responsive platform, we are well positioned 
to increase our mobile-centric customer base. We expect organic 
growth to remain robust in the coming months as we make 
further improvements to our propriety software and the gaming 
experience. The Board remains focused on exploring 
opportunities to expand into other international markets 
and progress in this regard is already underway with the 
Italian gaming licence. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all our staff for their commitment and hard work. The 
Board also joins me in welcoming all our new shareholders. 
This past financial year has been a highly successful period 
for the Group and our long-term focus remains on delivering 
strong, sustainable returns for our shareholders. We look to 
the future with confidence.
Nigel Payne
Non-Executive Chairman
16 November 2015
The response to the Group’s 
admission to AIM has been 
extremely positive and the 
Company’s shares have performed 
well since the listing, which we 
believe demonstrates confidence 
in the Group’s strategic plan and 
in the management team’s ability 
to deliver and generate returns.”
Nigel Payne Non-Executive Chairman
