 Strategic Report
08
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
Highlights
 » Strong operational performance with 
an NGR growth from real money 
gaming of 214%
 » Number of funded players reached 
52,000, representing a 278% increase 
from the prior year
 » 14.3% growth in Yield per Player 
reported at £112
 » Adjusted EBITDA is up 508% 
to £7.3 million
 » Adjusted EBITDA on real money 
gaming is up 483% at £7.0 million
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the year ended 31 August 2015 was 
an exceptional period for Stride Gaming in which we delivered 
record results across all KPIs. We have enhanced our profitability 
and strengthened our balance sheet. The Group also made material 
progress in achieving a number of operational milestones that 
provide the Company with a platform for increased growth. 
The operation 
The reported period has delivered a strong operational 
performance with NGR growth from real money gaming 
increasing by 214%. Our organic growth has outperformed 
our expectations, a testament to what we can achieve with 
scale and through owning our own proprietary software. This 
achievement is particularly pleasing in light of the current 
climate in which margins are being squeezed due to tax, 
regulatory compliance and technology costs. 
Our number of funded players has now reached 52,000 representing 
a 278% year-on-year increase, and with software enhancements 
and continuous improvements to the backend of our platform 
we have shown a 14.3% growth in Yield per Player at £112 
(2014: £98).
Adjusted EBITDA for the Group was up 508% to £7.3 million and 
Adjusted EBITDA on real money gaming (excluding the one 
month contribution from InfiApps) was up 483% at £7.0 million. 
In the main this is attributed to the enhanced gaming offering 
from the Group, the optimisation of marketing costs and an 
increase in the life time value of our customers, where we 
continue to deliver a compelling and innovative gaming 
experience across a multitude of devices including mobile, 
tablet and PC.
We remain committed to enhancing our performance in real 
money terms and in social gaming verticals. The Group today 
has close to 200 staff across five countries. 
Acquisitions
Acquisitions remain an integral part of the Group’s growth 
strategy in order to take advantage of the consolidation in the 
sector and to move into complementary verticals. The Group’s 
ability to successfully integrate acquisitions was demonstrated 
following the acquisition of the trade and assets of Table Top 
Entertainment Limited (including the brands Jackpot Café, 
Jackpot Liner and King Jackpot) and the acquisition of the 
propriety gaming platform from Nextec Software Inc; in 
aggregate for a total consideration of £14.7 million as well as 
Spacebar Media for consideration of £6.0 million.
As part of our strategy to move into complementary verticals 
and to diversify from solely bingo, on 31 July 2015 Stride Gaming 
successfully acquired InfiApps, a profitable internationally 
focused mobile social gaming company. The total consideration 
payable for the acquisition is up to $40 million. Of this, an initial 
consideration of US$22 million in cash was paid, together with 
additional earn-out consideration of up to $18 million payable 
in cash, determined by the EBITDA generated by InfiApps in 
the two years following completion of the acquisition. The 
acquisition provides us with a strong and profitable presence 
in the social gaming segment of online gaming across new 
our strategy
page 12 CORPORATE Governance Financial Statements Strategic Report
09
Stride Gaming plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2015
The year ended 31 August 2015 was 
an exceptional year for Stride 
Gaming in which we delivered 
record results across all KPIs. 
We have enhanced our profitability 
and strengthened our balance sheet. 
The Group also made material 
progress in achieving a number 
of operational milestones that 
provide the Company with a 
platform for increased growth.”
Eitan Boyd  Chief Executive Officer
and international geographies. The global social gaming 
segment is expected to grow from $5.4 billion in 2012 to 
$17.4 billion in 2019 (Source: Transparency Market Research). 
The acquisition has been immediately earnings enhancing 
and with some 5.2 million player downloads of the flagship 
game, Slot Bonanza, and over 550,000 monthly active users 
worldwide, it adds material scale and reach to Stride Gaming’s 
existing operations. 
For the financial year ended 31 December 2014, InfiApps 
generated turnover of $13.7 million (2013: $4.6 million), EBIT 
of $3.6 million (2013: $1.0 million) and profit before tax of 
$3.4 million (2013: $1.0 million). In the financial year ended 
31 December 2014, 69% of InfiApp’s revenue was generated 
from North America. For the five months to 31 May 2015, 
InfiApps generated turnover of $8.3 million and profit before 
tax of $2.3 million. These audited numbers are presented 
under US GAAP.
Our market 
Our markets continue to remain robust and, according to the 
UK Gambling Commission, revenue in the UK gaming industry 
is expected to pass £3 billion by 2016. The UK online gaming 
market, including casino, bingo-led and poker, is estimated to 
grow to approximately £1.6 billion of NGR by 2016 with 
bingo-led online gaming estimated to account for 32.3%. 
Our industry is currently experiencing a wave of M&A activity 
driven by increasing regulation, taxes, compliance, and technology 
costs. Companies are recognising that in order to survive in 
this more challenging regulatory environment they need to 
add scale. 
We believe these increasing pressures, particularly the Point 
of Consumption tax (“POC tax”) is likely to squeeze out a 
number of smaller scale online bingo operators as they will 
not be able to absorb such an impact on their margins. At the 
other end of the market, we believe the larger operators will 
prioritise their marketing spend on their core products and 
less so on bingo. This presents an online bingo operator with 
scale an opportunity to increase market share both from 
organic growth and acquisition.
Mobile 
The market is being increasingly driven by the use of the mobile 
smartphone and tablets for gaming, and with the launch of 
our new Responsive adaptive platform (“RAD”), which enables 
us to maintain a consistent user experience across a multitude 
of devices, Stride Gaming is well positioned to increase its 
mobile-centric customer base. The effects of this strategy 
are already being seen, and on the brands that support mobile 
devices, 48.9% of NGR is now mobile driven (2014: 19.7%). 
The RAD platform places great focus on mobile usability and 
we believe it will serve to further expedite our growth in the mobile 
sector. This is the fastest growing sector in the UK gambling 
industry with the percentage of customers betting on a mobile 
device increasing from 29% in 2013 to 43% in 2014, and in total 
30% of overall bingo search volume is attributed to mobile 
devices (Online Gambling and Betting: Mintel, 2014). 
International markets 
Another major growth opportunity we outlined in our strategy 
was to expand into international markets. I am pleased to report 
that the Group has obtained remote gambling licenses from the 
UK and Italian Gambling Commissions (“AAMS”), the latter of which 
provides us with an opportunity to access the Italian market. 
Outlook 
Our strategy remains focused on growing organically and through 
acquisition. As well as organic growth prospects remaining 
strong, we believe there are significant acquisition opportunities 
available, and we will continue to monitor potential selective 
strategic acquisitions that support our existing operations or 
that allow us to expand into complementary verticals. We believe 
the outlook for the Stride Gaming Group is exciting. 
Stuart Eitan Boyd
Chief Executive Officer
16 November 2015
