 Our Customers and Markets
Figure 1 outlines the range of customer types we supply. We are proud to work with some of the world’s leading brands 
and retailers.
We invoiced 61% of sales to customers in the United Kingdom, 34% to those in Europe and 5% in Rest of World, with a 
number of customers onward exporting globally. There is a strong probability Swallowfield produced products will be found 
in many markets around the world. 
Our Products
Figure 2 outlines the current sales value mix of product types.
 
 
 
Our Locations
 
s
18%
13%
35%
34%
35% Mass Brands
34% Beauty and  
Fashion Retail
18% Prestige  
Brands
13% Grocery  
Retailers
51% Aerosols
15% Colour  
Cosmetics
14% Gift &  
Fragrance
11% Liquids/ 
Other
9% Hot Pour
FIGURE 2   Sales by Product Type
 
s FIGURE 1   Our Core Customers
 
s
51%
15%
14%
11%
9%
09
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report Executing our strategy
‘Creating for Tomorrow, Delivering for Today’
Our business strategy is developed on two complimentary platforms:
• the first, ‘Creating for Tomorrow’ identifies the strategic pillars that we believe will help us create a stronger business in 
the mid and long term. 
• the second, ‘Delivering for Today’ identifies some key operational focus areas that we need to drive in order to deliver 
our more immediate (i.e. current fiscal) performance.
The 4 strategic pillars of ‘Creating for Tomorrow’ are: 
1. Product Category Focus
2. New Product Development
3. Cost Base Optimisation
4. Emerging New Category 
Innovation, our talented chemists have an industry-wide 
reputation for developing great new product formulations, 
especially in our drive and build product categories.                
Packaging Solutions, our team works across our customer 
base to design innovative and effective packaging solutions.
Regulatory Expertise, our team are able to advise 
customers as to regulatory requirements across a broad 
range of product types and across a variety of geographies 
thereby enhancing the potential of these products in export 
markets.
Quality Customer Base, the vast majority of our products 
are developed and produced for strong brands or more 
premium beauty and fashion retailers. Grocery private label 
products account for less than 10% of our contribution 
margin.
Expertise in our “drive” Categories, we have an industry 
reputation for quality, expertise and cost competitiveness 
in our drive categories (e.g. Aerosols, Hot Pour Products). 
These product categories also have significant barriers to 
entry in terms of skill and assets required.
Geographic Flexibility, our ability to fill and pack products 
in the UK, Central Europe and Asia enable us to tailor our 
offer to meet a variety of customer needs around, cost, 
quality, complexity and lead-times.
Formulatory Expertise, the majority of our sales are from 
formulations that we have either developed ourselves or 
jointly with our customers. This enables our relationships 
and specific contracts to be on a more secure, long term 
partnership basis.
Our Competitive Strength
10
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report Our ‘drive’ products are categories where Swallowfield has an existing and sustainable competitive advantage. 
Future investment of both human and financial resources will be prioritised to drive higher growth and 
profitability in each of these categories.
PRODUCT CATEGORY FOCUS
The business has segmented our product categories  
in to ‘drive’, ‘build’, and ‘service’ groups. 
s
Specifically in our drive  
categories we aim to:
— Prioritise development resource
—  Achieve ‘best in class’ reputation  
for consumer, technical and 
production expertise
—  Invest in production assets to 
drive cost and capacity
— Grow sales and margin ahead of  
 group average
Our drive categories include:
1. Personal care aerosols
2.  Hot pour products (for lips,  
face, hair, and underarm)
3. Roll-ons
We are pleased to report that we achieved in the year a direct 
contribution margin growth in our drive categories of 9%. Further  
we have secured new contracts with major global brand owners  
that will contribute to further growth in fiscal 2016 and beyond.
9
%
i
11
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report “Our core customers are brand 
owners who require a constant  
stream of product innovation to 
remain competitive and we have  
built a reputation as a valuable 
partner to them in this process.”
s
JANE FLETCHER  
GROUP SALES AND MARKETING DIRECTOR
NEW PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT
s
12
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report NEW PRODUCT 
DEVELOPMENT
s
13
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report Core Business Innovation 
In the year we introduced our innovative new plastic aerosol product in a post-foaming shower gel format. 
This technology offers the consumer and brand owners’ significant benefits. This project, which has created 
a world-first product, has taken three years to develop and included many technical innovations to overcome 
challenges around elements such as: pressurisation precision, crimping technology, gassing techniques, 
formulation compatibility, shrink-sleeving onto heat sensitive PET and many more. It has enabled us to secure 
a long term contract with one of our largest customers, and provides us with the opportunity to extend this 
technology to other ‘drive’ product categories and customers.
Swallowfield Owned Brands
As well as our core work we are also utilising our product development, manufacturing, and distribution 
expertise to create innovative ranges of products which are being taken to market under our own brand names. 
These are positioned to avoid any direct conflict with our existing valued customer base. Through highly 
targeted campaigns and the use of low cost customer engagement channels such as social media, we believe 
we can build strong brand awareness to support product sales with moderate and sustainable investment levels.
The recently acquired brand The Real Shaving Company has now been successfully integrated into the 
business. Customer response to our innovation plans for the brand have been very positive and first listings 
for our new aerosol products have been agreed. 
Development of our organically developed Swallowfield brands continues to progress well: 
Our premium beauty brand, ‘Bagsy’ was introduced in June, exclusively on-line, and will be launched with a 
major national department store chain in October. 
Distribution of our value brand ‘Tru’ has been extended, and it is now present in three UK retailers and one in 
Europe.
Our premium and innovative new male haircare brand ‘MR.’ will be launched in October into three hundred 
and fifty stores of a leading high street health and beauty retailer.
NEW PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
s
Bagsy
® 
s
14
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report The Real Shaving Company
® 
i
MR.
® 
i TRU
® 
i
15
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report We aim to improve our space and asset utilisation across our locations, which will reduce the cost base and 
improve productivity. In fiscal 2015 we completed the consolidation of our Bideford site into two buildings 
from three, relocating selected manufacturing lines to Tabor in the Czech Republic. This project delivers 
full year savings of £0.23m. We are continuing to evaluate options to optimise the use and location of our 
production assets across all Group sites.
We have identified a project to implement a coordinated upgrade of our energy and waste infrastructure at 
our main Wellington site, which aims to generate savings of approx. £0.15m per annum. This is expected to be 
completed during fiscal 2016.
COST BASE OPTIMISATION 
s
This project delivers full year savings of £0.23m. 
i
£0.23m
16
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report We continue to work on a number of innovative projects which may lead to the establishment of new 
capabilities (e.g. food, scented candles, and medical devices). However, the success to date of our owned 
brand projects lead us to conclude that strategic resource is better deployed to further accelerate in that area. 
Consequently we will roll our work on Emerging New Category into a broader Innovation stream and allocate 
resources in that context.
EMERGING NEW CATEGORY
s
1.  Product Category Prioritisation
2.  NPD (incl. Swallowfield Own Brands)
3.  Cost Base Optimisation
4. Emerging New Category
PREVIOUS FUTURE
1.  Product Category Prioritisation
2.  Core Business Innovation
3.  Swallowfield Owned Brands
4. Cost Base Optimisation
Evolution of our strategic pillars
 
s
17
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report
