 02
Overview
Superglass Holdings PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
Having been appointed Interim Chairman following 
John Colley’s departure on 19 June 2015, it is my 
pleasure to report on the progress the Group has 
made during the year and to confirm that I have 
agreed to accept the role of Chairman on a 
permanent basis.
John guided the Group through the last three 
extremely challenging years, completing two 
fundraising exercises, as the Group adapted to 
cope with the collapse of the Government‑sponsored 
energy efficiency schemes. He was assisted by 
Alex McLeod as Chief Executive Officer and 
David Gray as Senior Independent Director, 
both of whom also left the Group during the 
year, having served for six years each. I wish to 
thank John, Alex and David for their effort, 
commitment and dedication to repositioning 
the Group in new markets and for the major 
investment in infrastructure, product quality 
and business processes which was undertaken 
under their stewardship.
Loss before interest, taxation, depreciation, 
amortisation and exceptional items (LBITDAE) was 
£2.3m, in line with expectations and representing 
an improvement of £0.9m on the prior year. It is 
encouraging that the repositioning of the business 
to focus on growing construction markets, the 
implementation of a price increase and the 
continued aggressive management of our cost 
base has reduced the LBITDAE loss by almost 
80% to £0.4m in the second half, compared 
to £1.9m in the first half of the year. 
Despite the challenging trading conditions, 
through strong working capital management, 
the cash balance at 31 August 2015 was 
£3.6m and the net cash balance was £1.2m 
(2014: net debt of £0.4m).
I was pleased to appoint Ken Munro as Chief 
Executive Officer on 12 June 2015. Having been 
with the Group for two years, first as Director 
of Strategic Development and Sales and later 
as Managing Director of the operating subsidiary 
Superglass Insulation Limited, Ken brings knowledge 
of the Group, its customers and markets alongside 
his strategy and vision to lead the business in its 
next stage of development.
As a consequence of the October 2014 placing, 
Peter Gyllenhammar AB (formerly Bronsstädet AB) 
became a cornerstone investor, currently holding 
38.32% of the equity, and I am delighted to report 
that Peter has asked me to put on the public 
record his endorsement of Ken Munro and his 
management team and his strong support for 
the strategy they are implementing to reposition 
Superglass. We are currently in discussion with 
Peter about the re‑appointment, subject to 
the usual formalities, of a representative of 
Peter Gyllenhammar AB to the Board as a 
Non‑executive Director.
During the year, the Group successfully delivered 
the infrastructure investment which underpinned 
the £6.25m placing completed on 30 October 2014. 
This capital investment required a partial closure 
of the manufacturing plant in July 2015 to allow for 
the mothballing of one of the Group’s two furnaces. 
The associated reconfiguration of the production 
operations leaves the Group with a reduced capacity, 
but a more flexible manufacturing facility with lower 
fixed running costs. A key associated investment in 
a replacement forehearth has delivered much greater 
control over the glass streams and fiberising process, 
yielding further product quality improvements for 
our customers. Plans are now underway to procure 
and install a new furnace in 2018/19 to replace both 
the operational and mothballed furnaces, thereby 
increasing production capacity, improving operating 
efficiencies, lowering costs and reducing emissions.
After a lengthy trial process, in May 2015 
the Group achieved British Board of Agrément 
certification of “Superwhite 34”, a blowing wool 
product utilised in the construction of new houses. 
This opens up a new, premium‑priced market 
to the Group, which is expected to be of material 
benefit in the current financial year. This new 
product introduction, the first of a number of 
new product launches in recent months, reflects 
the Group’s renewed focus on innovation and 
new product development, supported by the 
investment in an Innovation Centre on the 
Stirling site.
Chairman’s statement
Mark Cubitt
Chairman
Summary
 e The Board continues to execute 
the strategic plan presented 
to shareholders
 e New management team in place
 e Increased focus on innovation 
and new product development
Building sustainability 03
Annual report and accounts 2015 Superglass Holdings PLC
Overview
Having observed the significant milestones 
achieved by the executive management 
team during the past six months, first as an 
independent Non‑executive Director and, more 
recently, as Interim Chairman, I was pleased to 
be invited by my Executive colleagues to consider 
taking the chair on a permanent basis, and this 
I have agreed to do with immediate effect. The 
appointment of an additional Non‑executive 
Director nominated by Peter Gyllenhammar 
AB would further refresh the Board, restoring 
our complement of Directors to four, comprising 
two Executive and two Non‑executive Directors, 
with the added benefit of the active participation 
of our largest shareholder in shaping the future 
direction of Superglass.
Our strategy for the current financial year remains to 
continue to reposition the business through product 
and service innovation, delivering enhanced product 
quality and outstanding customer service. We also 
plan to make further improvements in efficiency 
during the year , including energy, waste and overhead 
savings. The combined effect of these further cost 
savings, strengthening volumes, the benefit of 
new products and a further price increase already 
announced for 2016 leaves Superglass in a stronger 
position to make real progress in the months 
ahead than has been the case for many years.
Mark Cubitt
Chairman
18 November 2015
“ Superglass continues to execute the strategic 
plan presented to shareholders in 2014 and has 
successfully reconfigured the manufacturing plant 
into a reduced capacity, more flexible and lower cost 
facility. We have a new management team in place, 
the public endorsement of our largest shareholder, 
an increased focus on innovation and new product 
development, a number of new products recently 
launched, further cost savings still to be delivered and 
additional selling price increases announced for early 
2016. As a result, the Group is in a stronger position 
to make real progress in the months ahead than has 
been the case for many years.”
Mark Cubitt, Chairman
Read more about
The new Innovation Centre p7
Innovations
You’ll find the future of insulation 
at the Innovation Centre.
