 08
Strategic report
Superglass Holdings PLC Annual report and accounts 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Having been appointed as Managing Director 
of Superglass Insulation Limited in February 2015 
and then as Chief Executive Officer of the Group 
in June, it is my pleasure to present my first 
Chief Executive Officer’s review.
It is presented against a backdrop of continuing 
recovery in the UK construction and housebuilding 
markets (although recovery is still nascent in 
segments of the insulation market), which presents 
new opportunities for the Group, and it also tracks 
implementation progress against the strategy set 
out in the 2014 annual report.
Central to the strategic direction outlined at that 
time was the embedding of innovation in everything 
that we do as a business and particularly focusing 
our resources and investment on the development 
of new products and services. 
Alongside this drive towards delivering future 
proofed and differentiated solutions, the Group 
also emphasised its continuing commitment to 
infrastructure investment and, in particular, a key 
initiative aimed at giving the business the capability 
to manage and reduce output in a market that 
continues to suffer from excess capacity.
It was anticipated that these two key elements 
of the Group’s strategy (innovation and capacity 
management) would, allied to continued market 
recovery, deliver price growth in the year 
under review.
Innovation
With the opening of “Futureworks”, the new 
Superglass Innovation Centre and conference 
facility, we delivered on our commitment to a 
better showcase for Superglass Solutions and 
an immersive environment where customer 
workshops and future‑solution planning 
can take place.
Our dedicated 3,000 sq. ft. centre, located on 
our Stirling campus, provides a new entry portal 
for all customer visits, incorporating full product 
displays, conferencing areas and workspace 
for our solutions development team.
This centre was the “R&D hub” for a number of 
new solutions delivered over the past year, most 
notably our BBA certified 034 blown wool solution 
for new build housing, a significant achievement 
for the Group and an important addition to our 
broadening product range.
It was also the central point for consultation 
with customers and supply chain partners on the 
roll‑out of our new product packaging programme, 
with the first product family phase delivered during 
summer 2015 and the remaining phases rolling 
out over the coming months. This new livery has 
been exceptionally well received by customers, 
who have complimented its fresh design and 
clear product (colour coded) delineation.
Infrastructure investment
Circa £1.1m was spent during summer 2015 
replacing the forehearth on the operational 
furnace. Associated control equipment and linked 
infrastructure was also replaced and upgraded in 
a best‑in‑class implementation, project managed 
by our experienced in‑house team.
This significant investment is delivering greater 
process control and reliability and resultant 
improvements in product quality and consistency.
Additional capital investment projects were 
completed, delivering continual health and 
safety improvements and general infrastructure 
and reliability enhancements, supported by an 
enhanced preventative maintenance programme.
Price growth
In November 2014, all three UK glasswool 
manufacturers announced substantial price 
increases, the first for many years, effective 
1 March 2015. This welcome increase began 
the process of reversing the downward price 
pressure which has been a characteristic of the 
industry in recent years. The delivery of growth 
in pricing has been made with an associated 
impact on volume as the Group imposed a more 
rigid pricing policy and focused on customers with 
higher growth prospects and a greater proportion 
of higher value‑added products in their mix. 
A further price rise, necessary for the ongoing 
sustainability of the industry, has again been 
announced by all UK glasswool manufacturers 
for implementation on 1 February 2016.
Delivering the strategic plan
Ken Munro
Chief Executive Officer
Summary
 e New products launched, including 
Superwhite 34
 e Plant reconfiguration completed, 
with reduced capacity and lower 
fixed costs
 e UK construction-related sales 
volumes up 9%
 e Cullet supply stabilised  09
Annual report and accounts 2015 Superglass Holdings PLC
Strategic report
Continued rebalancing of business 
towards housebuilding
Construction Products Association Summer 
2015 Forecast data continues to predict healthy 
growth in 2016, with overall construction output 
and housebuilding growth of 4.2% and 5.5%, 
respectively. With 9% year‑on‑year growth, over 90% 
of the Group’s sales volumes now being delivered 
from construction‑related markets and new solutions 
enabling broader penetration of the new build housing 
market in particular, the Group is well positioned to 
capitalise on rising construction markets over the 
medium term.
These growing construction and housebuilding 
markets present strong value‑added product 
sales opportunities and are well aligned to the 
Group’s continued focus on innovation and 
new product introduction.
Cost savings
Our previously announced strategy to create a 
reduced but more flexible production capacity, with 
associated fixed costs savings, was implemented 
during the summer. This critical initiative was 
delivered by the in‑house team. The anticipated 
cost savings are being realised in full.
In addition, a further efficiency project which 
should result in substantial water usage reduction 
has been identified. This capital project is in the 
early stages of implementation and should begin 
delivering savings during the next fiscal year.
Routine interrogation of our supply chain and 
logistic processes is continuing, with a number 
of incremental and meaningful potential savings 
being scheduled for further examination and 
prioritisation. As this now standard activity 
continues, we expect additional opportunities 
to be identified.
Quality
With the Phoenix investments of 2012/13 and the 
further infrastructure spending identified earlier 
in this report now mature and stable, continued 
product quality gains are being delivered. In addition, 
a number of lean manufacturing techniques have 
been implemented in recent months, further 
improving quality across our full range of solutions. 
Customer feedback and compliance audits are 
encouraging evidence of these improvements. 
In January 2015, the Group’s cullet supplier, 
Viridor, commissioned a new glass recycling plant 
at Newhouse in Scotland. The switchover of supply to 
this new facility adversely impacted the quality and 
reliability of cullet supply required for our processes, 
the Group’s major raw material, representing 84% 
of raw material input. As a consequence, the Group 
suffered a number of interruptions to its production 
and incurred substantial additional costs. Since then, 
significant progress has been made to stabilise 
supply and the Group is working with the supplier 
towards a long‑term, sustainable supply of high 
quality cullet, essential to providing consistency 
to the manufacturing process and reliable product 
quality. The long‑term solution is likely to require 
substantial investment in the Newhouse facility 
by Viridor and we await confirmation that this 
investment will go ahead in the near future. 
Ken Munro
Chief Executive Officer
18 November 2015
Sales volumes
2011 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015
n Housing
n RMI
n Export
n Others
n Green Deal/ECO
Read more on p6
New packaging designs
