 Chairman’s 
Welcome.
“ The Board’s confidence in the underlying 
strengths of the business and its potential 
for the future is indicated by the decision to 
announce a maiden dividend for 2016 and a 
progressive dividend policy. We believe that the 
commercial model of the business allows us 
both to invest in new growth opportunities and 
return cash to shareholders.”
Peter Bamford
Chairman
8 July 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
02
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Whilst our financial results fell 
short of the expectations that the 
Board and our shareholders had at 
the start of the year, I am confident 
that SuperGroup has finished the 
year in a much stronger position.
The Board and management team have been strengthened 
significantly through a series of changes. Julian Dunkerton’s 
decision to step aside from the role of Chief Executive Officer has 
allowed him, with James Holder, to focus fully on the continued 
development of the Superdry brand and the evolution of our 
ranges. This, together with the appointment of Euan Sutherland 
to that position last October, has brought a new dimension to 
the leadership of the business. The three are working extremely 
well together and the Board is delighted with the progress being 
made. Euan’s move from his non-executive role provided the 
opportunity to appoint Penny Hughes to the Board in April this 
year. Penny brings a huge breadth of experience from a wide 
range of different businesses and boards. Since the year end we 
have confirmed Nick Wharton in the role of Chief Financial Officer. 
Nick, who had been covering the role on an interim basis since 
February, brings deep financial management skills as well as 
broad retail and business experience.
Susanne Given, Hans Schmitt, and Shaun Wills all left the 
Company during the year and I would like to thank them for the 
contributions they made to the development of SuperGroup. 
Since becoming Chief Executive Officer, Euan has worked 
closely with Julian, James and the rest of the management team 
to develop a new strategic framework which was presented to 
analysts and investors in March. This has given a sharp focus 
on the strengths of the brand, the areas requiring improvement, 
and the most important growth opportunities. Central to this 
process was gaining a clearer understanding of the Superdry 
customer base, how it has evolved over time, and the actions 
required to embed the core brand values in the business and 
enhance and extend our ranges. This will enable us to meet  
one of our key strategic challenges of remaining relevant to our 
core customers.
We now have systems which are much more robust and fit  
for purpose. New merchandise management, point of sale,  
HR and finance systems were installed and bedded-in during 
the year providing platforms which will enable future growth  
and efficiencies.
On the international front we opened 40,000 square feet of  
retail space in Germany, while the buy-out of our US licence 
partner in March and the announcement in July of the joint 
venture with Trendy International Group in China also provide 
platforms for significant long-term growth in these three large  
and important markets.
The Board’s confidence in the underlying strengths of the 
business and its potential for the future is indicated by the 
decision to announce a maiden dividend for 2016 and a 
progressive dividend policy. We believe that the commercial 
model of the business allows us both to invest in new growth 
opportunities and return cash to shareholders.
Good governance is essential in enabling us to realise our 
full potential and supports successful execution. We have 
thoroughly reviewed many aspects of the way that the Board, 
Board Committees, and the Executive Committee operate. A 
number of refinements and improvements have been made to 
ensure that management has clear authority to operate within 
the established creative and entrepreneurial culture, while being 
balanced by appropriate challenges, controls and rigorous 
decision-making processes. The Board evaluation confirmed 
that the Board is generally working well but noted that some 
improvements can be made.
SuperGroup has an ambitious and demanding strategy 
for growth and operational improvement. One of the most 
important priorities for us is to ensure that we have the people 
and organisation necessary to lead and manage the execution 
of our strategy. Whilst the last year has seen a number of 
changes to Board composition we will continue to review the 
skills, experience and diversity required to ensure the long-term 
success of our Company. Euan is continuing to build  
and develop the executive team and intends to put greater 
focus on talent management and succession planning 
throughout SuperGroup. 
I would like to thank everyone who has worked so hard in 
the continued development of SuperGroup and all of our 
shareholders for your investment and support.
Our 
Governance.
Financial 
Statements.
Strategic 
Report.
Financial 
Statements.
Our 
Governance.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
03
www.supergroup.co.uk
