 Results
£m unless otherwise stated 2015 2014
Reported Results
1
Revenue
2
 £49.4m £49.1m 
Revenue (constant currency)
3
 £50.4m £49.1m
Operating profit
1
 £1.00m £0.77m
Adjusted earnings per share
1
 6.6p 3.9p
Statutory Results
Revenue
2
 £49.4m £50.0m
Operating profit £1.00m £0.40m
Basic earnings per share 6.6p 1.4p
Total Dividend per share 2.0p –
Net debt  £5.4m £5.1m
1
 Adjusted operating profit and adjusted earnings per share are calculated before exceptional items.
2
 2014 statutory revenue represents 53 weeks trading, adjusting for the 53 week would reduce reported revenue by £0.94m. Except for 
revenue, where the relevant adjustment has been shown above, no material changes would be required to the income statement to adjust 
the 2014 financial year numbers to a 52 week basis.
3
 Revenue translated at 2014 exchange rates.
CHAIRMAN’S 
FOREWORD
———
04
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015 I am pleased to report that full year profitability is in line with our expectations and we continue to make good underlying 
progress with our ‘Building a Better Swallowfield’ strategy. We are investing for the future, repositioning the business, and 
delivering industry leading innovative new products and packaging formats. This strategy will continue to strengthen our 
market position, improve our competitive advantage and help to build shareholder value in both the medium and long term.
Business Review
Following a full review of the business which was completed in 2014, a new, focused strategy has been implemented which is 
already beginning to deliver demonstrable results. We expect this strategy to continue to improve profitability, increase cash 
generation and add shareholder value over future years. Further details are outlined in the Strategic Report that follows.
The Group has made good progress on a number of its strategic pillars (Product Category Focus, New Product 
Development, Cost Base Optimisation, and Emerging New Category). The main focus of our business remains the 
development, formulation, and supply of personal care and beauty products for customers which include many of the 
world’s leading brands. Through continued investment and execution of our Product Category Focus our offering has 
become increasingly differentiated, which has the dual benefit of a positive impact on margin contribution and also 
improving our competitive advantage, thereby making the Group more resilient. 
Alongside this core business, we continue to increase the sales of brands that are owned by the Group and which we control 
from formulation through to distribution. The acquisition of ‘The Real Shaving Company’ in May of this year for a total cash 
consideration of £1.15 million represents the most significant investment to date. I am pleased to report that the brand has 
been integrated successfully and that the business is performing well. In addition to its financial contribution, ‘The Real Shaving 
Company’ has also added further sales channels which the Group will leverage for other Swallowfield owned brand products. 
Overall, the improved margin has offset a slight softness in sales revenues versus expectations. This was due to the delayed 
availability of some materials and the continuing headwind of the weak euro.
Dividends
The Board is pleased to announce that it will be proposing a final dividend of 2.0 pence for approval at this year’s Annual 
General Meeting (2014: Nil). 
This reinstatement of the dividend reflects the Board’s confidence and progress on our strategy which is designed to build 
shareholder value in the medium and long term. 
However, as previously advised, it is the Directors’ intention to have a growth dividend policy and align future dividend 
payments to the underlying earnings and cash flow of the business, taking in to account the gearing and the operational 
requirements of the business.
Outlook
Despite the ongoing challenging market conditions, and the impact of the weaker euro, 
we have delivered a significant increase in profitability for the full year.
We are pleased with progress made to date on a number of significant milestones for  
the business, including new product launches, new ‘owned’ brands and the acquisition of 
‘The Real Shaving Company’, all of which will positively contribute in the new financial year. 
We remain confident that our strategy will deliver further profitability growth and 
shareholder value in the current year and beyond.
Brendan Hynes 
Chairman 
21 September 2015
05
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015 “It has been a year of measurable 
progress. Sales, gross margins and 
operating profit have all improved 
whilst we have also secured 
important new contracts in our 
drive and build categories that will 
support future growth.”
s
CHRIS HOW  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
s
06
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report 07
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report The Group has continued to make measurable progress over the past year. Whilst overall revenue growth is modest (0.6% 
reported; 2.6% on constant currency), it is underpinned by a strengthening of our direct contribution margin as we focus 
on product categories where we have a more resilient competitive position. This increased margin and further operational 
improvements have mitigated the continuing euro headwind and driven an improvement in the adjusted operating profit 
before tax, which is 30% higher than last year at £1.0 million. 
During the course of the year we have continued to develop a better balanced business. The broadening of our overall 
customer and geographic mix, plus the product category focus, has further improved our risk profile. For example in 2012 
we had three customers accounting for 52% of revenue, with the largest customer representing 25%. Three years on we 
now have seven customers representing the same proportion of revenue, with the largest customer now representing 14% 
of revenue.
OUR BUSINESS AND STRATEGY
Swallowfield plc is a market leader in the development, formulation, and supply of personal care and beauty products. Our 
customers include many of the world’s leading brands. 
In early 2014 we embarked on our strategy to ‘Build a Better Swallowfield’. This strategy is now firmly in place and 
beginning to deliver tangible results both in terms of long term business health and financial performance.
What We Do
Our core business is to formulate and produce quality products for many of the world’s leading personal care and beauty 
brands. We leverage our skilled resources to develop and market a growing portfolio of Swallowfield owned and managed 
brands.
Our Locations
Wellington, Somerset: our head office, a manufacturing and development location, predominately focused an aerosol and 
hot pour deodorant sticks.
Bideford, North Devon: manufacturing and development location focused on cosmetic wood pencils, small hot pour lip 
balms and plastic pencils.
Tabor, Czech Republic: a filling location focused on cosmetics, fragrances, tubes and roll-ons.
Shanghai: a local representative office and location of our 19% investment in Shanghai Colour Cosmetic Technology 
Company (SCCTC). SCCTC are focused on gift packs and cosmetics.
Paris and New York: sales support offices, located close to our customers. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REPORT
———
08
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS | 2015
Strategic Report
