 Chief 
Executive’s 
Review.
“ Every colleague at SuperGroup is passionate about the brand 
and focused on our goal of becoming a global lifestyle brand. 
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress this 
year in broadening and strengthening the appeal of the iconic 
Superdry brand. Underpinned by a clear strategy, we are 
improving the efficiency of our business and simultaneously 
capturing significant growth opportunities across the globe 
through our Retail and Wholesale channels. This will enable us 
to deliver long-term, sustainable, profitable growth . . .”
Euan Sutherland
Chief Executive Officer
8 July 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
12
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Financial year 2015 (“FY15”) was 
a game of two halves
I joined SuperGroup as Chief Executive Officer in October 
2014 during the warmest autumn on record in the UK. These 
extremely mild weather conditions across Europe challenged all 
fashion retailers and hampered sales of Autumn/Winter products. 
This adversely impacted Group revenue in the first half. 
However, in the second half our trading improved significantly as 
our promotional activities, necessary to address the level  
of inventory within the business, renewed focus on product  
with Julian in his new role, and improved processes began to 
gain traction. 
We have been working tirelessly to professionalise our business, 
enabling it to withstand better the factors outside our control. 
Based on a better understanding of our customers and their 
needs, we have gained significant clarity on all aspects of our 
business and each part of the value chain, from the design 
stage of clothing and accessories to the logistics of getting our 
product to the right place at the right time in the right quantities. 
This has allowed us to identify a number of improvements 
required in the business to enhance our customer offer, 
better communicate the appeal of the Superdry brand and 
ensure more efficient processes and controls. We are already 
seeing the benefits, notably from the increased collaboration 
between our sales channels – Wholesale and Retail (including 
e-commerce). Encouragingly, the momentum gained in the 
third quarter of FY15 has continued with growth in e-commerce 
sales accelerating and performance in our Wholesale business 
improving markedly as a consequence of the efficiency 
improvements we have made. 
Overall, notwithstanding the challenges of the first half, we 
delivered healthy sales growth of 12.9% for the year and a 
2.0% improvement in underlying profit before tax. With a clear 
understanding of our brand and customer, we can now drive 
forward and will continue to invest in our infrastructure, product, 
processes and people to deliver long-term, sustainable growth.
  Read more about Our Performance on pages 36 to 45
Our focus is 
to execute our 
strategy so that 
we deliver long-
term sustainable 
growth.
Our 
Governance.
Financial 
Statements.
Strategic 
Report.
Financial 
Statements.
Our 
Governance.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
13
www.supergroup.co.uk Chief Executive’s Review.
To track and measure our progress we have identified a number 
of key performance indicators (“KPIs”) (read more on pages 
38 to 39). Our strategy is grounded in extensive research and 
data analysis which shows our brand is in good health in the UK 
and mainland Europe, and there are positive initial indications 
in the US. We have a much broader customer base than many, 
including ourselves, previously thought, which substantially 
increases our target market. 
The two most exciting strategic developments, as we grew our 
global presence in FY15, were the buy-back of the US licence 
through the acquisition of assets from SDUSA LLC, and the 
collaboration with Idris Elba. More recently, we entered into a 
joint venture agreement with Trendy International Group, which 
will allow us to work with an established retail business based in 
China to enter the Chinese market in a controlled and managed 
way, without imposing significant organisational demand. 
We are passionate about product innovation and, with the 
changes in management and investment in people we have 
made, our two founders are now able to focus on extending our 
product capability. Creating a series of perfect, icon products 
and continuous innovation ensures that the link between strong 
brand values and strong product attributes remains robust. 
Our strategy is clear, grounded in a thorough understanding of 
our brand, customer and product.
Embed.  
Our brand values for 
long-term sustainable 
growth
  Read more from page 17
Enable.  
Investment in people, 
systems and infrastructure
  Read more from page 22
Execute.  
Growth opportunities 
in new markets and online
  Read more from page 27
Extend.   
Achieving growth potential 
in key categories
  Read more from page 25
At the end of 
March 2015, we 
unveiled our four 
pillar strategy to 
the market.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
14 Premium.
The two key drivers of our growth are 
international expansion and improving 
efficiency:
International expansion: European 
expansion, buy-back of the US licence and 
the joint venture in China
The majority of future space growth in the near-term will 
come from mainland Europe, which is a market approximately 
five times the size of that in the UK, with our main focus on 
Germany, followed by Austria, Italy, Spain and Poland. Our 
European stores deliver excellent returns on capital with, on 
average, a two year payback. Looking at Germany in particular, 
we are pleased with the overall performance of the store 
portfolio especially given how young most of our stores are. We 
opened our first store in November 2012 and we plan to grow 
our presence from the 18 stores and six franchises we currently 
have to over 50 in the next five years.
In March 2015, we bought back the exclusive rights to sell 
and distribute Superdry products in the USA, Canada and 
Mexico (“North America”) through the acquisition of assets 
from SDUSA LLC, our former licence partner. This follows the 
acquisitions of our Scandinavian, Spanish and German partners 
over the last 18 months. 
Strategically, taking control of our product selection and 
enhancing our presence in North America is an important and 
natural step to realising our global ambition. It gives us the 
opportunity to enhance our brand and significantly build the  
long-term value of our business. 
China is a very exciting market and forecast to overtake the 
US as the largest apparel and footwear market in the world. 
Customer tastes are evolving from luxury brands to brands 
influenced by “pop” culture and we believe that the Superdry 
brand, with the right product, pricing model and infrastructure, 
is well positioned to be successful. The most appropriate 
model for us to enter this market is to join forces with an 
established Chinese company and as such we have agreed a 
10-year minimum 50:50 joint venture with Trendy International 
Group (subject to satisfactory performance). The operation will 
be funded by a combined investment of up to £18m though 
we anticipate that the joint venture will be self-funding within 
two years of operation. We will follow a measured roll-out 
programme with the day-to-day business operations managed 
by Trendy. Our involvement will be focused on strategic brand 
support, design services and marketing.
Improving efficiency: Design to customer 
optimisation, supply chain wins and refining 
Wholesale
The efficiency improvements we are making in the business 
primarily emerge from improvements to our design to customer 
process. As we optimise this process, we improve our speed to 
market and lower our costs. The improvements we are making 
are not ground-breaking initiatives and, to our benefit, many are 
practices already well proven in Retail. Some of the inefficiencies 
we identified include supplier over-concentration, not optimising 
direct sourcing, and committing to our buys too early leaving us 
with very little flexibility to adapt our product range later in the 
season. We also had different ranges for each of our routes to 
market with large discrepancies between the Wholesale and 
Retail ranges, and between different geographies.
15
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk To remedy these inefficiencies we will be increasing our direct 
sourcing over the next five years and will establish our own 
quality assurance teams in India and China this year. We have 
begun phasing our orders and deliveries, helping not only 
our stock and warehouse management but also providing 
in-season newness in our product offering – critical to the 
success of our womenswear range in particular. Our newly 
appointed womenswear category manager is providing a crucial 
link between design and merchandising, using the insight we 
have gained from our customer and competitor research and 
information from previous buys to help shape and improve the 
range. Ultimately, over the next two years, we will establish an 
integrated approach so that Wholesale products form the core 
of our range and become a subset of Retail, with e-commerce 
offering our complete product range. This integrated approach 
will drive even greater efficiencies and effectiveness through 
our organisation. We provide an illustration of the change in our 
buying model on page 10. 
Over the last two or three years, we have made great strides in 
improving our distribution facilities and processes. ‘The Duke’ 
(the UK distribution centre) which houses product for Retail, 
Wholesale and e-commerce, situated in Burton-upon-Trent 
in the UK, opened in 2013. However, with most of our future 
growth expected to come from the EU, there is a need to 
simplify our stock movement plan. Ultimately we will establish 
‘zonal fulfilment’ with each zone able to fulfil Wholesale, Retail 
and e-commerce in specific markets. That way we better 
manage and balance our stock and we are closer to and better 
able to support our growth plans in each market. The first step 
to achieving zonal fulfilment is a single view of our stock. As 
we move into 2016 and then into 2017, we will create a single 
pick face across Retail and e-commerce at the Duke in the first 
instance and then incorporate Wholesale. This model will be 
replicated in other parts of the world as we expand  
our business.
Our stores too will benefit from ongoing investment over the 
next five years. This will include investment in systems to 
automate our assortment and space planning, and a revised 
grading system where we will have category-specific grading 
driving enhanced product allocation to each store based on its 
size and historical sales profile. 
The performance of our Wholesale channel has been restricted 
by limited investment in the past three years, an unnecessarily 
complex business model which did not leverage the Retail offer, 
and consolidation in the marketplace resulting in the loss of key 
accounts. With Wholesale now being better integrated into the 
rest of our business planning and processes, there are many 
opportunities, centred on the design to customer process, to 
achieve closer alignment between Retail and Wholesale so that, 
in time, we will have a single optimised structure for all routes  
to market.
We have strengthened our team
We acknowledge that the loss of key colleagues is one of 
our biggest potential risks. We have invested in our design 
and buying departments and strengthened our category 
management and merchandising systems so that the two 
founders are entirely focused on design and product. A 
Transformation Director, who will take responsibility for the 
Group’s key development activities and co-ordinate our 
business-wide change programme, will join the business  
this Summer.  
Idris Elba collaboration
Golden Globe winning actor Idris Elba is collaborating with 
Superdry to design and produce a premium line of clothing 
which will be sold globally in stores and online, as well as 
through Wholesale partnerships from Autumn/Winter 2015. 
This new collaboration is part of our strategy to create a global 
lifestyle brand, building on the iconic heritage of Superdry 
to broaden and strengthen customer appeal. Idris, who is 
designing the range with James Holder, will be the face of the 
line. This exciting collaboration will prompt consideration of our 
brand by new customers and is evidence of our commitment to 
innovation and the strengthening of our premium range. 
Chief Executive’s Review.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
16 Our brand values 
for long-term 
sustainable growth.
People Product Progression Passion
Doing the right thing 
for our Superdry 
family (customers 
and team)
The ongoing 
creation of perfect 
products
Stay grounded 
and innovate 
like mad
Always keep the 
passion, energy and 
enthusiasm that 
created the brand
1
Embed.
17
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk The first pillar of our strategy is to EMBED our founding 
principles and brand values, inspired by Julian and James, 
with every single colleague, every single store and online and 
in every country in which we operate so that there is a real 
understanding and appreciation of what our brand stands for. 
It is also about embedding the extensive knowledge of our 
customer into everything we do so that our customer feels 
valued and is loyal to Superdry.
Our brand is about attitude
Our brand is unique – it is an innovative, British, premium 
lifestyle brand with global appeal. It’s accessible to everyone. 
It’s a democratic brand. Our customer is not defined by age but 
rather by attitude.
E m bed.  
Innovative, 
British, premium 
lifestyle brand 
with global 
appeal.
Our three point brand strategy
There are three principal elements of our brand strategy:
T o build a global lifestyle brand
This encompasses the product, brand and retail 
experience. A global lifestyle brand appeals to 
customers through all life stages and is a way of life 
rather than an individual product. A global lifestyle 
brand has longevity. 
1
T o drive awareness of the breadth of the 
Superdry range
As we constantly innovate our products, there is a 
need to ensure our existing and potential customers 
are aware of and buy into the breadth of our product 
range. This is particularly relevant for products for 
more mature customers and women, and will allow 
us to increase consideration and purchase across a 
broader customer spectrum.
Having a consistent brand proposition globally is key to our 
success. We will achieve consistency by working as one team, 
applying best practice in each market, using global brand icons 
to connect the customer with the brand, and leveraging our 
global capability in merchandising, range selection and a clear 
understanding of how we optimise retail space.
2
T o build a broad cross-channel relationship 
with customers
Our customers interact with us in a multi-channel 
environment (i.e. both in-store and online). A multi-
channel customer is of significantly higher economic 
value to us and we therefore seek to provide a 
consistent multi-channel experience around the world. 
3
Product
The ongoing 
creation of perfect 
products
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
18 There is a strong link between our brand values and our 
four product attributes, which are: design detail; quality 
obsession; end-to-end innovation from product through 
to stores; and affordability. 
Our four key product attributes
Developing a breadth of range
Vests
Shorts
Footwear
Dresses
Denim Gilets
Accessories
Bags
Our 
Governance.
Financial 
Statements.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
19
Our 
Governance.
Strategic 
Report.
Financial 
Statements.
19   Read more on page 21
Our target customer 
is not defined by age 
– it’s their attitude.
Our customer is:
✓ from a broad spectrum
✓ aspirational
✓ appreciative of style, quality and attention to detail
✓ focused on value for money, not price
✓ feeling amazing in what they wear
E mbed.  
20
www.supergroup.co.uk
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
20 Our customer profile
We have completed both qualitative and quantitative customer 
research globally over the last 12 months, which has given 
us a greater understanding and insight into our customer 
demographics, their perception of Superdry and their buying 
behaviour. 
Superdry has broad democratic appeal 
and has consistent brand perception 
across the world
1
Superdry remains relevant in its core 
UK market
1
2
The three key findings are:
3
Opportunities exist to better communicate 
the breadth of our product and extend 
certain categories, in particular 
womenswear
The qualitative insights we have gleaned show what customers 
think of Superdry. This evidences that Superdry is a strong 
brand with considerable democratic appeal. We are renowned 
for high-quality products and iconic styles often associated  
with big logos, but have developed to also produce clothing 
with more subtle branding. However, these qualitative insights 
also show that the brand is still perceived as being rather 
masculine and that womenswear has a narrower appeal to 
younger customers. This is a significant opportunity for us and 
will be a key focus over the coming year. There is also some 
mystery around the brand and whether it is Japanese, American 
or British.
We have embedded this research in our design process and 
range planning as well as our customer communication and 
identified a number of opportunities to improve and extend our 
product range (see more on page 26).
UK
Belgium
Ireland
Netherlands
France
USA
Germany
Canada
>35 25-34 <25
Source: ABA Research online survey of Superdry e-commerce customers
January–March 2015
Age profile trend in our market
UK
Belgium
Ireland
Netherlands
France
USA
Germany
Canada
AB C1 C2 DE
Source: ABA Research online survey of Superdry e-commerce customers
January–March 2015
Socio-economic profile
Our customers consistently say that Superdry is . . .
Our 
Governance.
Financial 
Statements.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
21
Our 
Governance.
Strategic 
Report.
Financial 
Statements. Investing in 
our colleagues, 
systems and 
infrastructure.
Enable.
www.supergroup.co.uk
22 The second pillar of our strategy is to ENABLE growth 
by continued investment in our colleagues, systems and 
infrastructure so that we drive more efficiency and greater profit 
opportunity as we grow our business.
Our investment in our colleagues
The entrepreneurial and innovative culture we inherited from 
our founders remains at the heart of our way of work. People 
at SuperGroup bring our brand to life and the success of 
our business is a direct result of the knowledge, skills, drive, 
passion and enthusiasm of our colleagues, wherever they are 
in the world. We believe this is due to the environment we have 
created where individuals can flourish and fulfil their potential.
We now employ in excess of 3,900 people across the UK, 
Europe, US and Asia. Colleague numbers will continue to 
increase as we grow the business. SuperGroup remains an 
attractive place to work and during the year we received  
more than 100,000 applications for roles and recruited in  
excess of 900 temporary workers to support Christmas 2014 
peak trading.
We have further enhanced our suite of tools and learning 
opportunities to better equip colleagues to further the growth 
of our business. The demand for talent is ever greater and the 
ongoing review of our people across the business has enabled 
us to identify colleagues rich in our brand DNA, experience and 
skill set to support business development in new territories. This 
in turn provides colleagues with a more rewarding career. This 
review, conducted twice yearly, helps us to match future talent 
needs with existing talent in the business and supports our 
succession planning. 
Looking ahead
Our focus is on sourcing the best talent and following a strategy 
to develop people ahead of the business’s growth curve. We 
conducted our first engagement survey in June 2015 to help 
identify ways in which we can further support our colleagues to 
be at their best more of the time.
We remain focused 
on sourcing the best 
talent.
3,900
Colleagues
100,000
Applications to 
join us
Enable.
People
Doing the right thing 
for our Superdry 
family (customers 
and team)
Our 
Governance.
Financial 
Statements.
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
23
Our 
Governance.
Strategic 
Report.
Financial 
Statements. Systems and infrastructure
As described on page 15, we are continuously improving the 
efficiency of our business by optimising the design to customer 
process. This has been enabled by the substantial investment 
in our IT systems, including our transactional and internal 
business systems, over the past two years. The end of FY15 
marked a significant change in emphasis for our IT, systems and 
infrastructure teams. With us now having derisked substantially 
our infrastructure, the emphasis is on business-as-usual 
activities and on leveraging the newly  
deployed systems. Investment in our  
systems, infrastructure and processes  
will continue as we move into more  
territories and extend product categories. 
The key system investments and 
improvements we have made this year 
to enhance our efficiency and the overall 
customer experience include:
Merchandise management system 
(Mercatus)
One year after completing the implementation of 
the merchandise management system, we are 
now leveraging the benefits of this fully automated 
system for Retail and e-commerce to manage our 
stock across Europe. We have a much improved 
view of our stock and our allocation and in-store and 
warehouse management of product has therefore 
improved. This has also resulted in more accurate 
reporting of stock availability and we are using the 
data generated by this system to inform range 
planning and stock allocation.
1 1
In-store point of sale system
We began the roll out of a new in-store point of 
sale system at the beginning of the year. This 
involved converting all our stores from a legacy 
Eurostop system to BTE Store 6.3 and new point 
of sale hardware. The benefits have been greater 
consistency across our estate, more and faster 
payment facilities, and near real-time reporting of our 
sales figures.
2
3
Financial system (Coda)
Following a rigorous selection process, Coda was 
selected as the Group’s core financial system 
to provide the multi-national and multi-currency 
capability necessary to support the Group’s global 
expansion. The replacement programme started 
in August 2014 with the initial implementation 
completed successfully in the second half of the 
financial year. The current financial year will see 
further enhancements to the system.
Optimising the design 
to customer process.
Enable.  
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
24 Achieving growth 
in potential key 
categories.
Extend.
www.supergroup.co.uk
25
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Our third strategic pillar is to EXTEND, through innovation 
of our existing product categories and also through the 
development of new, complementary product ranges. 
Our product opportunities 
We are putting data-driven insight into action by developing 
our product offering and improving our category management. 
Historically, we have been well known for our male outerwear, 
and specifically the upper-half of the body. By focusing 
on the categories and the subcategories that we are 
developing, we will drive the next phase of growth. 
Significant opportunities exist for Superdry in just about every 
category other than male outerwear, particularly in womenswear, 
premium and denim, but also in active sportswear, ski and 
footwear. Our premium range is being refreshed as part of 
the collaboration with Idris Elba and will launch as part of the 
Autumn/Winter 2015 range.
Focusing on capturing the 
opportunity in womenswear
We have made substantial improvements in our womenswear 
over the past five years; however, we have not yet fully captured 
the opportunity. We have relatively low market share other than 
in specific subcategories such as logo t-shirts and logo sweats, 
where we have been very successful. Knitwear, for example, 
accounts for the largest proportion of value and volume in 
womenswear in the UK, a category in which we are growing 
rapidly. Dresses and outerwear, a more valuable category due 
to a higher average selling price, are two subcategories on 
which we are focused using a data-driven approach by, for 
example, adjusting our hem lengths and extending our size 
and colour offering. We aim to maintain our position in our 
strongest categories such as the iconic logo products whilst 
simultaneously growing our market share in knitwear, outerwear, 
tops and shirts, and denim. 
In addition to improving our womenswear offering, our improved 
category management and design to customer process will 
offer newness more frequently as we go through the seasons – 
this is key to the success of our womenswear.
Extend.  
Significant 
opportunities exist 
for Superdry 
in just about 
every category 
other than male 
outerwear.
Passion
Always keep the 
passion, energy and 
enthusiasm that 
created the brand
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
26 Execute.
Growth 
opportunities 
in new markets 
and online.
27
www.supergroup.co.uk
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 The fourth pillar of our strategy is EXECUTE, bringing 
together all elements of the first three pillars and expanding  
our business globally, online as well as in our Retail and 
Wholesale channels.
Expanding our Retail estate in 
mainland Europe
A key driver of our growth strategy is the expansion of our 
Retail estate which is, as mentioned on pages 15 and 42, 
predominantly focused in mainland Europe. Our core owned 
estate targets stores between 3,000 to 6,000 square feet 
in major city locations or prime locations in shopping malls. 
Over the next five years we will grow by following a clear and 
systematic approach through a mix of owned retail, franchise 
and wholesale. We continued to make good progress and 
opened 73,000 square feet of new space in mainland Europe, 
including a 10,000 square feet flagship store in Munich, in FY15 
and now operate from 66 owned stores: 20 in Belgium, 18 in 
Germany, seven in the Netherlands, seven in France, four in 
Scandinavia, six in Austria, two in Italy and two in Spain, where 
we also opened a further five El Corte Ingles concessions. 
Together these stores equate to 162,000 square feet of trading 
space, an increase of 82% during the year representing 21% of 
our total Retail estate. 
Looking forward, we see significant opportunity for new Retail 
space in both our key markets and new markets.
The expansion of e-commerce continues
The strong growth in e-commerce continued in FY15 in Europe 
and in the UK, with the rest of the world, where our greatest 
growth opportunity lies, also doing well. Forming a multi-channel 
relationship with our customers is vital as our research suggests 
that multi-channel customers spend about 2.6 times more with 
Superdry compared to single-channel customers; and secondly, 
the retention index amongst multi-channel customers is about 
80% higher than it is for single-channel customers.
The two key building blocks of our e-commerce business are 
being global and being multi-channel. Our philosophy is to 
enable customers to order anywhere, on any device, using any 
payment method, and have their order delivered to wherever 
they choose. As such, through 25 fully localised sites (sites 
that offer local pricing, currency, payment methods, customer 
service hours and content, translated into 12 languages) we are 
a ‘glocalised’ e-commerce business. Our partner programme is 
another important driver generating incremental growth. This is 
where we offer our product for sale on third party retailer sites, 
giving us access to new customers and allowing us to expand 
where we already have a presence whilst controlling the brand 
experience. We have eight partner sites currently, the most 
recent additions being The Iconic in Australia, performing ahead 
of our expectations, and TMall.com in China, which launched 
in March 2015. Whilst our partner programme is currently a 
relatively small part of our e-commerce business (c. 7% of 
e-commerce revenue), it has the potential to grow rapidly. 
A key market development, which commenced in the UK in 
2015, was our click-and-collect offering, ‘Superdry Collect’, 
which allows customers to order up until 10pm and collect 
from 12 noon the next day in any of our UK stores. We have 
complemented this with iKiosk – our in-store ordering on an 
iPad Mini with an integrated chip and pin device. This bespoke 
App gives customers in-store access to the full range from 
Superdry.com helping us capture lost sales from items being out 
of stock. The combination of the iKiosk and Superdry Collect is 
incredibly powerful and we therefore hope to roll this out to more 
stores around the world this year.
Ex ecute.  
Forming a multi-
channel relationship 
with our customers 
is vital.
Progression
Stay grounded 
and innovate 
like mad
SUPERGROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2015
www.supergroup.co.uk
28
