 Chairman’s statement
Sir Duncan Nichol
Chairman
2 June 2015
Dear Shareholder,
The past twelve months have seen 
continued success in implementing our 
strategy, with good underlying revenue and 
trading profit growth despite adverse currency 
translations. Whilst there has been some 
distraction as a result of the proposed 
combination with Steris, we have continued 
to expand our services to new and existing 
customers across our markets maintaining our 
operational excellence, and forging ahead with 
our long-term investment opportunities. We 
have seen particularly strong growth from our 
global Applied Sterilisation Technology & 
Laboratory Services (‘AST’) business and we 
have laid the groundwork for similar growth 
from our Healthcare Services (‘HS’) business. 
Financial Results
Synergy has delivered solid full year 
growth in 2015, with reported revenue 
of £408.8 million (2014: £380.5 million), 
representing an increase of 7 .5%. Underlying 
revenue growth, after removing the impact of 
currency movements, was 10.8%. Adjusted 
operating profit was £64.6 million (2014: 
£61.3 million), representing an increase of 
5.3%. Underlying operating profit growth 
was 9.4%. Adjusted operating margin 
decreased to 15.8% (2014: 16.1%).
Recommended combination with 
STERIS
On 13 October 2014 STERIS Corporation 
(‘STERIS’) announced a recommended 
combination of Synergy and STERIS. 
The combination of Synergy with STERIS 
has considerable strategic merit for both 
organisations, creating a leading outsourced 
sterilisation network to further improve the 
service we provide to our customers. This 
could potentially accelerate the growth of both 
companies, leveraging STERIS’s capabilities 
and infrastructure to make Synergy’s products 
and services more successful, and Synergy’s 
customer base and markets to cross-sell 
existing and new STERIS products.
As announced on the 29 May 2015, Synergy 
and STERIS intend to contest the US Federal 
Trade Commission’s decision to block the 
proposed transaction. Both companies believe 
that the combination is procompetitive and in 
the best interest of all constituents of the two 
companies, including customers.
Shareholder return
Driven by the growth in revenue and operating 
profit, adjusted basic earnings per share 
(‘EPS’) before intangibles, amortisation, 
non-recurring items and acquisition-related
costs were 75.50p (2014: 70.59p), an 
increase of 7 .0%. After taking account 
of amortisation, non-recurring items and 
acquisition-related costs, basic earnings 
per share were 56.90p (2014: 57 .81p), 
a decrease of 1.6%.
As a result of the proposed combination 
with STERIS, the Board chose not to pay 
an interim dividend to shareholders (2014: 
8.57p), and is not proposing to pay a final 
dividend to shareholders (2014 total dividend: 
22.77p). The Board will continue to keep its 
dividend policy under review. Synergy and 
STERIS have agreed that Synergy would 
be allowed to declare a special dividend 
of 15.80 pence per share. The timing of 
payment of such a dividend would be 
determined by the Board at a future date.  
Business development
During the year we worked to mobilise the 
two largest contracts Synergy has ever won. 
On 27 July 2014 we successfully began a 
multi-year contract with Sterilmed (part of 
Johnson & Johnson), reprocessing single 
use medical devices, and I am pleased to 
say that we have exceeded the customer’s 
expectations. Throughout the year we also 
worked on the North Shore HS project, but 
asa result of property-related planning delays, 
full service commencement has been delayed 
to the first quarter of 2016. Our work with 
major partners, such as Sterilmed and North 
Shore, is resonating with key decision makers 
in large health organisations in the US and 
worldwide, and I am pleased to report that 
we have recently won two further large US 
HS contracts worth £17 million.
As a result of the negotiations with STERIS, 
the Group has had to redirect internal 
resources away from other acquisition activity 
and some potential transactions have been 
delayed or postponed. However, organic 
growth has been improving, supported by 
our new gamma facility in Marcoule, France, 
doubling capacity in Saxonburg, US, adding 
a new facility in San Francisco and investing 
in plant and process improvements 
throughout our global network.
Further details of these investments are 
disclosed in the Operating Review, and 
in the financial statements. Acquisitions 
remain a key part of our strategy, and with 
our strong financial position we will continue 
to consider targeted bolt-on acquisitions and 
to evaluate strategic acquisitions to increase 
shareholder value.
Our core values of 
achievement, integrity, 
accountability and 
innovation, are central to 
the relationships we have 
with all our stakeholders
4  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 The Board 
In September 2014 the Board was further 
strengthened with the appointment of Bruce 
Edwards. Bruce was formerly the global 
Chief Executive Officer for DHL’s Supply 
Chain division, and a member of the Board 
of Management. Bruce is a non-executive 
director of Ashtead plc and Greif Inc., a NYSE-
listed packaging and container manufacturer. 
Bruce has joined the Audit, Remuneration 
and Nomination Committees. 
The Board places great emphasis on 
governance and is mindful of its responsibility 
to promote the long-term interests of the 
company for all our stakeholders. This 
is described in detail in the corporate 
Governance section of our Annual Report.
Corporate responsibility 
We give high priority to compliance and 
ethics, as well as health, safety and the 
environment. Our core values of achievement, 
integrity, accountability and innovation are 
central to the relationships we have with all 
our stakeholders, and underpin how we treat 
our customers, our suppliers, our staff and 
the wider communities in which we operate. 
Details of the Group’s approach to corporate 
and social responsibility are disclosed in the 
Strategic review.
Our people 
Investing in the skills and engagement of all 
our employees is a critical part of sustaining 
the long-term vitality of the Group. 
The Board continues to be delighted with 
the efforts and commitment of staff across 
the Group. I would once again like to thank 
all our staff for their dedication. Synergy’s 
well-earned reputation for operational 
excellence, and its ability to deliver on its 
commitments to customers, is testament 
to the effectiveness of those efforts and the 
shared values to which we all subscribe. 
Outlook 
Synergy remains well placed to maximise 
its core competitive strengths, strong 
operational capabilities and internationally 
respected brand. The business has a number 
of opportunities for earnings-enhancing 
investment, and the Board is confident that 
these will deliver strong growth in shareholder 
value over the coming years.
Since the initial listing of Synergy in the 
summer of 2001 the business has produced 
compound revenue growth in excess of 20% 
per annum and adjusted EPS growth of 15% 
per annum. The strategies that we have set 
out for the continued development of our AST 
and HS businesses in a global market create 
the opportunity for Synergy to grow further 
and to extend a track record of which we 
are very proud.
The proposed combination with STERIS 
would create an even stronger combined 
group that would help to support the 
implementation of our strategy as well 
as create new opportunities. We enter 
a new chapter in Synergy’s evolution, 
where our access to the US sales teams 
and infrastructure of STERIS would help to 
accelerate the HS outsourcing market, and 
the combined comprehensive, global AST 
network would be of significant value to 
our shared customer base.
The new financial year has started well. 
Looking further out the Board is confident 
that our expertise, our investments in new 
capacity, and our close collaboration with 
our customers will all deliver sustained 
growth over the medium and long term.
Synergy’s well-earned reputation 
for operational excellence, 
and its ability to deliver on its 
commitments to customers, is 
testament to the effectiveness 
of our staff and the shared values 
to which we all subscribe.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
5  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
