 06 www.synecticsplc.com
Strategic review
Overview
When I stepped into this role it was clear my immediate challenge 
was not to dramatically change our strategy, but to refresh the 
execution and refocus our efforts on areas of critical importance. 
So for us, 2015 has been a year of transition during which we have 
tackled some tough problems and laid a platform for future growth. 
Our approach to this has been fairly simple: we’ve provided 
strategic clarity, focussed on re-engaging with individuals and 
teams throughout the organisation and continued the process 
of aligning our business.
Immediate challenges
Our objective this year was simple: to get the business back 
on track.
With increasingly unpredictable market conditions it was very 
important that we retained our agility, to enable us to quickly and 
effectively adapt our approach, and that we continued to realise 
all the opportunities in the sectors we operate in. 
But we had become less focussed in a number of areas of 
critical importance, so reinstating a ‘customer first’ approach 
was vitally important, as well as focussing on our people.
Key elements of strategy
A critical element of Synectics’ strategy is to create leadership 
positions within specialised high-end sectors of the electronic 
security and surveillance industry, through the combination of 
deep sector-specific market knowledge and, where appropriate, 
our own proprietary technologies. This requires our people to be 
knowledgeable experts in the relevant parts of our customers’ 
businesses. It is therefore critically important we develop, 
equip and retain our staff to confidently fulfil that role.
Focussing on our sector-first principle is also vital to taking 
our deep vertical-market expertise into new territories. The 
considerable success of our Gaming business over the past 
few years epitomises the power of this approach, as we have 
successfully taken a proposition previously centred on the US 
into the Asian market. We are applying this skill to reassess the 
Group’s activities and effectively address the wider opportunities 
we can see in the transport & infrastructure market.
Our customers have consistently told us that we should act as 
one company, and that we had at times been slow to react to this. 
There is considerable scope for closer alignment and co-operation 
across the Group’s current range of activities, and the Group’s 
transport & infrastructure systems activities will now be much 
more closely integrated.
The role of Synectics in the industry
Where security and surveillance is a fundamental part of our 
customers’ operations, it is our responsibility to be their trusted 
partner. We achieve this by forming close relationships with our 
customers, supporting them in the long term by getting to know 
them and their specific needs. 
In the specialist sectors in which we operate, there are few 
companies that feel at home in those sorts of environments, 
and can do what Synectics does best. What we can deliver goes 
beyond just security and surveillance technology: we have hugely 
experienced people, and apply our creative intelligence to put 
together solutions that work.
Our people have an unrivalled level of commitment, expertise 
and focus that makes a huge difference to our customers. It’s this 
blend of aptitude and attitude that ultimately gives them confidence, 
and I believe that strength gives us a valuable advantage. Synectics’ 
history has played a big part in developing this ‘can-do’ attitude, 
and our values are built around that ethos.
We have the track record that proves we can deliver complex, 
challenging projects, and an enviable client reference list.
It’s this combination of smart technology and safe hands, together 
with deep sector knowledge, that’s unique in this industry.
Paul Webb
Chief Executive
24 February 2016
Chief Executive’s statement
“ On the back of this hard fought 
year, I am really pleased we 
have been able to return the 
business to solid profitability 
and significantly strengthen 
its cash position. ” 
Paul Webb
Chief Executive DEUTSCHE BAHN REGIONAL RAILWAYS 
IN NUREMBERG
Synergy 3 is a powerful command and control 
platform – a multi-tasking control room in a busy 
transport system is the perfect place to showcase 
its capabilities.
Nuremberg is one of the first fully operational and fully 
integrated 3-S Centres and its control room is the first 
in Germany to be equipped with the latest evolution of 
Synectics’ command and control platform, Synergy 3. 
Our European transport team provided hardware and software 
to modernise the control room, having installed the initial 
facilities several years ago. 
The control room includes six Synergy 3-powered 
workplaces with eight screens each, from which five staff 
monitor station cameras 24/7, as well as receiving alarm, 
emergency and service calls from train stations across 
the region of Northern Bavaria.
The build phase of the project was delivered in the first 
half of 2015 and was followed by a four-year service 
and maintenance contract.
