 Introduction
04 www.synecticsplc.com
Chairman’s statement
Overview
In 2015 Synectics achieved its expected return to profitability 
after the significant downturn of the previous year. The recovery 
plan put in place at the beginning of the year was successfully 
implemented and delivered across the Group. All areas of activity 
were profitable. In the case of our largest single end market sector, 
Oil & Gas, revenues recovered somewhat compared with last year, 
but profitability was still markedly lower than in 2013, reflecting 
the continued impact of delays and cancellations in industry 
infrastructure investment brought about by the 70% decline 
in the price of oil.
Within the IMS division, substantial improvements were achieved 
both through better management control over the delivery of large 
security integration projects, and through solid organic growth of 
revenues and margins. The mobile systems transport surveillance 
activities produced a particularly strong performance in the year.
Good progress was also made by management in further 
simplifying the Group’s operating structure and in sharpening our 
focus on those specialist areas of the global electronic security 
and surveillance market where Synectics’ technology and 
capabilities are among the best in the world.
Results
For the year to 30 November 2015, Synectics’ consolidated revenue 
grew by 6.0% to £68.5 million (2014: £64.6 million). The Group 
made an underlying profit
1
 of £1.6 million (2014: loss £2.4 million). 
After charging £1.0 million (2014: £1.4 million) for exceptional 
restructuring and other non-underlying costs, the consolidated 
profit before tax for the year was £0.5 million (2014: loss £3.7 million). 
Underlying diluted earnings per share was 8.0p (2014: loss per 
share 14.0p).
In last year’s Annual Report, I stated that Synectics was 
expecting to generate substantial positive cash flow during 2015, 
as exceptionally high working capital balances caused by project 
delays in 2014 were unwound. I am pleased to report that this was 
achieved, with net cash flow from operations for the financial year 
of £6.9 million, and a net cash position at 30 November 2015 of 
£0.5 million (2014: net debt £6.1 million).
Dividend
In light of Synectics’ return to profitability and much-improved cash 
position, the Board is recommending payment of a resumed final 
dividend of 1.0p per share, payable on 6 May 2016 to shareholders 
registered on 29 March 2016, for consideration by shareholders 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on 27 April 2016. 
People
I would once again like to pass on to all employees the 
sincere thanks of the Board and shareholders for their continued 
commitment and efforts last year.
During 2015 the Group significantly increased its focus on 
formally collating and acting on employee feedback in all areas 
of our activity. Senior management and the Board appreciate 
the valuable feedback and pay close attention to employees’ 
comments. The results from the latest employee survey showed 
a desire for increased training in a number of areas, and this 
will be actively addressed in the current year.
Board changes
Paul Webb, previously head of the Systems division, was 
appointed Chief Executive from 1 February 2015. He has already 
brought to the role the benefits of his considerable energy and 
talents, as well as his deep knowledge of Synectics’ technology 
and markets.
As previously announced, Nigel Poultney retired as Group Finance 
Director, and from the Board, on 30 November 2015. He will remain 
with Synectics on a part-time basis, as Company Secretary and to 
effect an extended handover to his successor, for the remainder of 
this year. Nigel has been with Synectics for 24 years; throughout 
that time he has served the Group with outstanding commitment, 
loyalty and skill, and I am pleased to acknowledge here the 
Board’s most sincere gratitude to him.
“ Synectics achieved its expected 
return to profitability after the 
significant downturn of the 
previous year . The recovery plan 
put in place at the beginning 
of the year was successfully 
implemented and delivered. ”
David Coghlan
Chairman 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2015 Synectics plc
Introduction Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information
Mike Stilwell was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director 
on 1 December 2015, having previously served as Financial Controller. 
Mike joined Synectics in 2012, and we look forward to working 
with him now in his new role.
Finally, Michael Butler was appointed to the Board 
on 23 February 2016 as an independent Non-Executive Director. 
Michael has had a highly successful business career, most 
recently in the satellite communications sector where his 
appointments have included a substantial period as Chief 
Operating Officer and a main board director of Inmarsat plc. 
His background and skills are very relevant to Synectics’ 
technology and markets, and are complementary to those 
of our other Non-Executive Directors.
Collectively, these are significant changes which should provide the 
Board with a positive combination of fresh viewpoints and continuity.
Strategy, organisation and financial objectives
A critical review led by Paul Webb, the Group’s new Chief Executive, 
over the past year has confirmed our strategy of creating leadership 
positions within specialised sectors of the electronic security and 
surveillance industry, through the combination of deep sector-specific 
market knowledge and, where appropriate, our own proprietary 
technologies. These proprietary technologies are based on open 
systems and built around Synectics’ core integration software; 
they are developed specifically for our chosen specialist market 
sectors and must provide fundamental differentiation from the 
offerings of mainstream suppliers in the wider electronic 
security market.
The other main conclusions from the review are set out in detail 
in the Strategic Review on pages 6 to 15. In brief summary they 
include that:
» the Group’s transport and critical infrastructure systems
activities, some elements of which are currently in different
divisions, should be much more closely integrated under the
umbrella of the Systems division;
» there is considerable scope to increase revenues, margins and
quality of earnings through closer alignment and co-operation
across the Group’s current range of activities;
» more of the Group’s resources and energies should be directed
at a smaller sub-set of activities that are strategically relevant
to the development of our business; and
» the Group should creatively devise and exploit further
opportunities to expand the scope of its supply in existing
market sectors, with a clear focus on selling, wherever feasible,
end-to-end packages of systems and services to increasingly
sophisticated and demanding customers.
The reorganisation of the Group’s transport & infrastructure 
activities will be coupled with additional investment in sales and 
technical capabilities during 2016. This area is a key thrust for 
the Group in which we see substantial opportunity for growing 
Synectics’ revenues through an increasingly differentiated 
sector-specific approach, as has already been successfully 
applied to the gaming and oil & gas sectors.
Over the five years to 30 November 2013, Synectics grew its 
revenues and profits consistently and, at the end of that period, 
achieved the medium-term objective set by the Board in 2010 of 
a consolidated operating margin in the range of 8%–10%. In 2013 
the Group also invested significantly in its products, internal systems 
and facilities, and it is now a more sustainable and more scalable 
business, but with a consequent higher fixed cost base even after 
the recent overhead reductions.
Looking beyond the serious current dislocations in the oil & gas 
market, the Board’s view is that Synectics remains well capable 
of achieving, in normal market conditions, consolidated operating 
profits in the same 8%–10% range as previously set. 
Outlook
Synectics’ expectations for 2016 are not based on any assumption 
of improvement in the oil & gas market. However, market volatility 
means that short-term forecasts are subject to higher than usual 
levels of uncertainty. The gaming sector appears well positioned for 
a good year, especially in the second half, and we expect a continuation 
of the improving trend in integration & managed services.
For Synectics as a whole, the Board is looking forward to a year of 
continued progress, though subject in some areas to an abnormally 
uncertain macro-economic environment.
David Coghlan 
Chairman
24 February 2016
1  Underlying profit/(loss) represents profit/(loss) before tax and non-underlying 
items (which comprise restructuring costs, share-based payment charge 
and amortisation of acquired intangibles).
