 Chief Executive’s strategic review
Introduction
Synergy is a global leader in outsourced 
sterilisation services for medical device 
manufacturers, hospitals and other industries. 
Worldwide, we operate a complete range of 
sterilisation technologies including gamma, 
ethylene oxide (‘EtO’), electron beam, ion 
beam, steam and plasma. Across the 
healthcare industry, Synergy also provides 
other niche outsourced services such as 
laboratory services (pathology, toxicology, 
microbiology and food and allergen testing) 
and healthcare linen services. All of our core 
businesses have the benefit of significant 
barriers to entry, stable long-term contracts 
and good cash generation. 
Financial performance
It is my pleasure to report another strong 
period of growth in line with our objectives. 
Reported revenue (after currency effects) 
was  up 7 .5% to £408.8 million (2014: 
£380.5 million), with revenue at constant 
currency up 10.8% over the same period 
last year. 
Our business development activities during the 
year have resulted in long-term contracts worth 
£13.6 million per annum. Of this, we have won 
contracts worth £4.9 million per annum in the 
US, and £8.7 million per annum in the UK and 
Europe. Across the Group our forward order 
book has been maintained at £1.6 billion, with 
contract wins and renewals in HS partially 
offset by price erosion on linen management 
contracts in our HCS business.
Strategic Performance
Our objective is to grow revenue and 
earnings by approximately 15% per annum 
through a combination of organic and 
acquisitive growth. We aim to achieve this 
objective, despite historically low levels of 
inflation in most of our global markets, through 
the application of our proven expertise in 
delivering value to our customers. The total 
addressable market for our services is 
significant; the global AST market is estimated 
to be worth £1.5 billion per annum, and the 
US and UK Healthcare Services (‘HS’) markets 
are estimated to be worth £1.8 billion and 
£0.3 billion per annum respectively. 
Progress towards our objective in our AST 
and HS businesses has been in line with 
expectations. AST is generating strong results 
globally via enhanced organic growth rates 
and network and technology expansions to 
meet the needs of our key global customer 
partnerships. HS continues to build towards 
more significant growth as we convey our 
refined value proposition to existing and 
potential customers and expand our bid 
book further.
To address our growth targets we 
communicated a four-step plan to build 
on our US-UK operating axis. Our key 
objectives and strategies are to:
a) Grow AST by 10-12% per annum by 
continuing to internationalise the network 
through organic growth and acquisitions, 
whilst differentiating our services through 
technology and our people. 
In the 2014/2015 financial year, our AST 
business grew by 19.4% year on year, on 
a constant currency basis. 
We continue to invest in organic growth 
opportunities to secure additional capacity to 
meet our customers’ needs, across a range 
of technologies. Our growth projects include 
a new gamma sterilisation pallet plant in the 
UK and additional processing capacity in 
the Netherlands, additional EtO chambers 
in Ireland and the Czech Republic, and 
enhanced electron beams in Italy and  
the US. 
Synergy has the most comprehensive 
network of AST facilities outside of the US 
and these investments further strengthen 
the service we can offer to our key global 
medical device customers.
b) Grow HS by 10-20% per annum by focusing 
our outsourcing growth in the US and UK, 
whilst offering easily scalable HS technologies 
to a broader market. 
In the 2014/2015 financial year, our HS 
business grew by 12.2% year on year, 
on a constant currency basis. 
Synergy is the largest provider of HS 
outsourcing globally, and has the scale to 
differentiate itself from in-house solutions 
and commercial competitors by continuing 
to invest in new technology. We continue to 
develop our surgical instrument management 
software, SynergyTrak™, supported by 
advances in radio-frequency identification 
(‘RFID’) technologies, which together increase 
operating room utilisation, reduce patient risk, 
and enable our customers to optimise 
their instrument inventories.
In July 2014 we began a multi-year contract 
with Sterilmed (part of Johnson & Johnson), 
reprocessing single use medical devices. The 
contract was implemented well, albeit two 
months later than originally envisaged, and our 
expertise in this market has been well received 
by the customer. Our North Shore project will 
commence full service delivery in the first 
quarter of 2016. 
Our business development teams are fully 
focused on using the efficiencies, cost-savings 
and risk reductions realised in our work with 
Sterilmed and North Shore, to further penetrate 
Our objective is to grow 
revenue and earnings 
by approximately 15% 
per annum through a 
combination of organic 
and acquisitive growth.
Dr Richard M Steeves
Chief Executive
2 June 2015
8  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 the US HS market. During the year we won 
£7 .4 million of new customer business, and 
since the year end we have won two further 
HSS contracts worth £17 million. The bid 
book across both the UK and US businesses 
remains well in excess of £225 million. 
c) Expand our HCS business into service 
adjacencies to broaden their growth 
prospects and reduce our dependency 
on pure linen management. 
Whilst the UK service has done well, 
increasing revenue and winning contracts 
worth over £5.1 million, the Dutch service 
saw a further contraction in their market as 
the Dutch health service restructures long-term 
care. The current strategy for this service is 
very much based on cost leadership, so that 
at any given price, we intend to make a higher 
margin than our competitors. Our focus in the 
new financial year is to restore revenue growth.
d) Expand Synergy’s services into a third 
market with strong adjacencies to both the 
AST and HS businesses. 
One of our key objectives is to deepen the 
relationships that we have with our customers 
by broadening our range of available services. 
Our expansion into the reprocessing of 
reusable devices for Sterilmed serves as one 
example of this. Similarly, we have a range 
of laboratory services that could be globally 
scaled to provide a wider range of services 
to our AST customers. Whilst this objective 
remains valid, our focus during the year has 
been on the STERIS combination and certain 
restrictions during this period have prevented 
us from moving this objective forward.
Recommended combination with 
STERIS
On 13 October 2014 STERIS announced a 
recommended combination of Synergy and 
STERIS. Whilst the combination of Synergy 
with STERIS has considerable strategic merit 
for both organisations, the preparatory work for 
the Federal Trade Commission has absorbed 
a considerable amount of management time 
during the year. We have worked hard 
to minimise the impact of these corporate 
activities on the Group but inevitably they 
have absorbed management time.
Leadership
At the start of this year, the Board decided to 
restructure the Group, replacing our regional 
structure with a service line structure, and 
introducing a Chief Operating Officer (‘COO’) 
role to oversee day-to-day operations, leaving 
the CEO to focus on strategy and long term 
planning. This structure has enabled us to 
implement our strategy effectively and to 
deliver global organic growth whilst maintaining 
our strong reputation for operational excellence 
and delivering a service that generates 
outstanding value for our customers.
Financial strength
Synergy is a robust business with an 
internationally diversified business providing 
value-added services underpinned by long-
term contracts. Cash generation remains 
strong, with adjusted EBITDA increasing 
by £5.3 million to £108.6 million (2014: 
£103.3 million), before non-recurring 
items. Net debt increased to £161.1 million, 
marginally increasing gearing to 1.6 times 
EBITDA (2014: 1.53 times), well below our 
internal ceiling of net debt versus EBITDA 
of 2.5 times.
Synergy team
I would like to take this opportunity to 
recognise the great work that has been 
done by the Synergy team this year as we 
continue to build a world leader in sterilisation 
and infection control services. We have a 
strong set of core values (achievement, 
integrity, accountability and innovation), which 
not only sustain a great and growing business, 
but also have a significant impact on improving 
patient safety and reducing risks for our 
healthcare customers around the world.
Synergy is a global leader in 
outsourced sterilisation services 
for medical device manufacturers, 
hospitals and other industries.
Outlook
The strategies that we have set out for the 
continued development of our AST and HS 
businesses in a global market create an 
opportunity for Synergy to grow further, and 
to extend a track record of which we are very 
proud. The proposed combination with STERIS 
will create an even stronger combined group 
that will help to support the implementation of 
our strategy as well as create new opportunities. 
We have made good progress this year on our 
objectives. In the near term we will continue to 
focus on investing to deliver our strategy. I am 
personally very excited about the opportunities 
at hand, and look forward to seeing the 
continued growth of this business.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements 
9  
Synergy Health plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
