 06
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC  
Annual Report 2015
Strategic report: Strategy
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
“TalkTalk is all about giving customers consistently the best value for money experience in the market.”
FY15 business review 
Summary
We delivered full year revenue growth of 4.2%*, in line with our 
guidance. Full year EBITDA of £245m grew by 15% (FY14: £213m) 
after increased SAC investment in growing broadband, mobile 
and fibre volumes, and absorbing the operating losses from 
our acquisition of blinkbox in Q4. Headline Earnings Per Share 
grew by over 20% and Dividend Per Share by 15%, in line with 
our commitment. 
Our strategic goal is to cement our position as the leading value 
for money, integrated fixed and mobile telecom and TV provider 
in the UK. In doing so, we will deliver our FY17 financial targets 
of 5% revenue CAGR (raised from 4%) and 25% EBITDA margin. 
Beyond FY17 we expect to continue to grow revenues by at least 
5% per annum, and deliver strong free cash flow growth. We will 
deliver these objectives by:
 ƥ Leveraging the scale of our network
 ƥ Scaling our integrated quad play products for consumers
 ƥ Doubling the market share of TalkTalk Business
 ƥ Making TalkTalk Simpler and transforming our 
customers’ experience
 ƥ Trialling and then rolling out an Ultrafast fibre network
 ƥ Building an Inside Out mobile network
We see significant long term opportunities to deliver growth 
and investor returns within this strategic framework, underpinned 
by an increasingly supportive regulatory background, changes 
in the structure of the UK market and growing demand from 
consumers and businesses for value for money quad play 
and data propositions.
We have made significant progress in each of these during FY15. 
* Statutory revenue after £5m exceptional VAT adjustment in FY14.
1. Leveraging the scale of our network
FY15 progress
The scale and breadth of our unbundled network has enabled us 
to increase network capacity at falling unit costs while holding capex 
at c.6% of revenues. These scale economics mean we are the only 
provider in the UK market to offer totally unlimited fixed line 
data products.
The economics of our network also enable us to grow the base of 
connected customers through acquisition. In November we announced 
the acquisition of Virgin Media’s off-net broadband base and migrated 
the bulk of this base onto our network through Q4, while at the same 
time offering these customers an expanded service (fibre and TV) 
and saving them money.
At the beginning of Q4 we announced the acquisition of Tesco’s phone, 
broadband and home phone bases, which will begin migration onto 
our network through the summer. These customers too will enjoy the 
opportunity to take an expanded set of services and save money on 
their total connectivity bills.
Outlook
We anticipate continued strong growth in bandwidth usage on our 
network as customers’ ownership of multiple devices grows and as 
they consume more video content, both from our own TV platform 
and from other OTT providers. We plan to scale the capacity on our 
network significantly over the next five years and to invest in resilience, 
all within our capex budget of 6% of revenue. This operating leverage 
sits at the core of the long term economics of our business.
2. Integrated quad play
FY15 progress
We delivered strong growth across all our products, driven by a 
compelling value for money pricing strategy and a re - balanced trading 
approach that contrasted with our strong focus on TV during FY14. 
The broader trading strategy also enabled us to invest additional 
SAC at lower costs per add than in FY14, driving broadband, fibre and 
mobile volumes during H2. As a result, we saw strong annual growth 
in revenue generating units (RGUs), with over 1m new RGUs added. 
We exited the year with 1.56 RGUs per customer, 16% higher than 
at the end of FY14. 
All our customer bases grew strongly during the year, with phone 
and broadband up 6%, TV up 54%, mobile up 63% and fibre up 131%. 
In addition to a rational pricing strategy with value for money at its 
heart, we continued to develop key propositions to allow our 
customers to save even more money.
TalkTalk is now firmly established as the No.3 pay TV platform in the 
UK, with 1.4m customers. We renewed our commitment to YouView 
during the year, ensuring another five years of access to the platform 
and its development pipeline. Customers who take TV generate 
significantly higher NPS and lower churn than dual play phone and 
broadband customers. Consequently triple play customers are 
significantly more valuable. We continued to develop our content 
offer on YouView during the year and built upon our existing 
wholesale relationship with Sky. 
We reached a new multi-year agreement to broaden and extend 
the distribution of Sky’s premium movies and sport content to 
our TV customers. In addition to the linear channels, this includes 
the right to offer customers catch up content for both Sky Movies 
and Sky Sports, access to Sky Sports 5 (Champions League and 
European football) and Sky Sports Box Office on a pay-per-view 
basis. This built on our existing relationship to offer Sky entertainment 
content and access to live sports on NOW TV on a day-pass basis. 
We launched Netflix to TalkTalk customers in January. The agreement 
with Netflix allows us to share in the revenues generated, further 
demonstrating the appeal of the TalkTalk platform to a growing 
number of content providers.  07
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC  
Annual Report 2015
We also added 16 further new channels during the year, including 
Premier Sports, two Brazilian and eight African channels, and a 
number of unique TV boosts not available on any other UK Pay-TV 
platform, including TV Box (Universal Studios), and Collections from 
ITV (a boxset proposition offering a great range of comedy, drama 
and entertainment classics).
As a result of these developments in our content proposition, we saw 
material increases in the take-up of pay content boosts and TVOD 
volumes. Customers watching and purchasing Sky boosts grew 
particularly strongly during the year, with Sky Sports take-up growing 
46% year on year driven by the success of Sky Sports F1 and the 
introduction of Sky Sports 5; and Sky Movies Boost take-up growing 
49% year on year driven by the success of Sky Movies on Demand.
Overall content revenues showed strong progress with growth of over 
45% year on year.
In January we announced the acquisition of blinkbox from Tesco. 
blinkbox is one of the leading on-demand providers of pay content 
in the UK and works across multiple platforms and devices – both inside 
and outside the home. blinkbox’s established technical expertise 
in multi-platform, multi-device content delivery and incremental 
content relationships are highly complementary to our strategy 
of being the best value for money TV provider in the UK.
In mobile, we reached agreement with Telefonica for O2 to be our new 
MVNO partner and launched the first integrated quad play bundle 
in the UK in November, which allows Plus customers to take a mobile 
SIM as part of their package. As a result we grew our share of the SIM 
only market to 13% in March from 4.2% a year ago – a larger share 
of the market than either Tesco Mobile or Vodafone. Following the 
end of the year we launched our market-beating All-In SIM offering 
unlimited data, texts and minutes for just £12 a month, representing 
a saving of £270 in comparison to mobile operator Three’s equivalent 
package over 18 months. All our mobile products are available 
exclusively to TalkTalk broadband customers and therefore drive 
significantly improved NPS and churn.
Our fibre proposition saw the strongest growth of all products during 
the year, albeit from a modest base in FY14, driven by increasing 
requirements for higher bandwidth and an easier, self-install proposition. 
Outlook
The UK fixed line space remains an attractive and rational market 
in which we see multiple opportunities to continue scaling our value 
for money quad play propositions. For us, quad play is an offensive 
strategy. Our customers save money by taking additional products, 
driving increased penetration of TV, fibre and mobile. The next two 
years will see us continuing to scale our TV, mobile and fibre businesses 
within the framework of our existing wholesale relationships. 
37% of our fully unbundled customers currently take TV and we 
expect the continuing development of the platform will drive the vast 
majority of our customers to take TV over time. With the integration 
of blinkbox now substantially complete, we expect to accelerate the 
development of our TV to Go App, expand our range of pay per view 
content, drive greater engagement, higher content ARPU and lower 
churn. The first example of the benefits blinkbox will bring to TalkTalk 
is our recent agreement with HBO to make available Game of Thrones 
(seasons 1–4), one of the world’s most famous TV shows, to buy and 
own digitally from early June. Customers will also be able to stream 
their purchased episodes on TalkTalk’s TV2Go companion App.
In mobile, moving from our current thin MVNO with Vodafone to O2 
will initially deliver improved reseller economics that reflect the scale 
and growth of our mobile base. The access to 4G that we will have 
under the new MVNO will allow us to expand our range of mobile 
products and build on our competitive market position. Over the 
course of the next two years we will also be able to take full advantage 
of the unbundled economics (similar to fixed line LLU) that our 
agreement with O2 offers, by building our own core mobile network 
systems and taking full control of SIM sourcing, pricing and proposition. 
As a result, we see headroom to significantly grow penetration 
of mobile within our base from the current 12%.
We expect demand for high speed superfast broadband to continue 
to grow as the number of connected devices in our customers’ homes 
grows and more customers find their copper speeds insufficient and 
as a result are willing to pay for faster connections. We do not however, 
expect particularly strong growth unless or until the wholesale price 
of fibre to the cabinet comes down and we are able to pass on these 
cost savings to our customers. Whilst Ofcom’s margin squeeze test 
protects us from potential abuse from BT’s vertically integrated 
business model, and should drive prices down in the long term, 
we do not expect this imminently. 08
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC  
Annual Report 2015
Strategic report: Strategy
3. Scaling TalkTalk business
FY15 progress
TalkTalk Business (‘TTB’) has delivered another year of strong 
revenue performance with 40% growth in Data and 41% in Carrier 
more than offsetting the continuing decline in legacy voice (-13%). 
We connected 9,000 new Ethernet and EFM circuits in the year, 
taking our total base to over 26,000, a year on year increase of 
over 50%.
In addition we launched our first ever above-the-line marketing 
campaign for Business Broadband aimed at the SoHo and SME 
markets, highlighting our compelling price proposition versus BT 
(£10.50 per month for unlimited data and calls, including unlimited 
to mobile numbers, compared to £27 per month for the equivalent 
product from BT). We also launched a free voice app called Talk2Go 
which allows customers to use existing fixed line minutes on their 
mobile free of charge as well as free app to app calls, delivering 
even further value to our Business Broadband proposition. 
We have seen a strong response which underpins our confidence 
in the substantial opportunity for TTB to grow share in the 
Business Broadband market.
Outlook
Scaling TalkTalk Business is a key component of our longer term 
growth plan. The UK B2B market remains much more fragmented 
than the consumer market for telecoms services. TTB’s share in 
its key SME and data markets, whilst having grown strongly in the 
last two years, remains far below our c.18% share of the consumer 
market. We see an opportunity to double TTB’s market share over 
time, driven by continuing strong growth in its suite of Data products, 
further growth in the SME phone and broadband market, and 
deepening relationships in the partner channel for the provision 
of wholesale services.
The acquisition of tIPicall in April 2015, which will allow us to give 
increased value to our data customers through a converged voice 
offer, illustrates the potential TTB has to leverage its existing 
infrastructure in data products through complimentary investments. 
4. Making TalkTalk simpler and transforming 
the customer experience
We launched our Making TalkTalk Simpler (MTTS) programme in FY13. 
At the time we expected the combined initiatives under this programme 
to drive incremental savings of £30m to £50m over three–five years, 
by making TalkTalk simpler to operate, improving our customers’ 
experience and reducing our costs, through driving process and 
efficiency improvements. MTTS is driving transformational change 
in the way we operate and will deliver significant ongoing customer 
experience and financial benefits. 
FY15 progress
We made considerable progress in simplifying our tariffs during FY15, 
including the disposal of our off-net broadband base, rebranding AOL 
customers and eliminating over two-thirds of legacy tariffs in TTB. 
This has allowed us to begin simplifying the supporting infrastructure 
and operational systems including the decommissioning of third 
party systems and support. We introduced billing system upgrades 
and new fault diagnostic tools in Consumer and implemented a new 
CRM system in TTB.
We continued to expand our self-service provision during the year. 
Nearly 475,000 customers have downloaded our service centre App 
since launch, allowing them to view their package details and bills on 
the go, check their mobile allowance and diagnose faults remotely. 
Over 35% of our customers self-served during Q4 allowing them the 
convenience of managing their account online at a time and place 
that suits them. Our new online welcome centre, which helps new 
customers through the process of joining TalkTalk, has reduced early 
life calls and improved customer satisfaction.
MTTS delivered material improvements for customers evidenced 
by a reduction in churn and fall in complaints to Ofcom. However, 
call volumes fell by less than we had planned as we reprioritised 
some of our teams to focus on integration activities. We also 
redesigned a number of programmes such as our Consumer CRM 
system for which we changed suppliers in H2. As a result cost savings 
of £17m in the year were some £15m lower than we had planned. 
Outlook
While we are pleased with the progress we have made in improving 
customers’ experience and the resulting reduction in churn, there 
is much more to do to drive a step change in our customers’ 
experience and our brand reputation, and therefore to deliver 
materially higher savings. 
This will be our key priority over the next two years and requires 
ongoing systems transformation that will deliver material financial 
benefits in the form of significantly lower call volumes, lower leakage 
between sales and connection, lower bad debt from right first time 
bills and easier payment processes, lower operating costs from fewer 
engineer visits and router replacements, and lower retention and 
churn costs from happier customers. 
As a result we expect to deliver operating cost savings greater than 
the £30–50m we were originally targeting. Having delivered £15m 
and £17m of savings in FY14 and FY15 respectively we now expect 
an incremental £40m+ over the next two years with cumulative 
savings by FY17 now expected to be in excess of £70m.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued 09
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC  
Annual Report 2015
5. Ultrafast fibre
The scale of our broadband base and the breadth of our network 
infrastructure (over 3,000 unbundled exchanges) underpin our 
ambition in fibre, which we are testing through our joint venture with 
Sky and CityFibre in York. Build costs of under £500 per premise 
passed and speed of take-up from our combined market share of 
30%–40% are the key variables that will determine the opportunity 
for a scale national roll-out of fibre to the premise. 
FY15 progress
We have made good progress on the groundworks for our York Fibre 
to the Premise (‘FTTP’) trial, with 1,200 homes passed in the first 
dig area, and are on track to launch our proposition soon and begin 
connecting customers in the autumn.
Early indications of build costs are proving to be in line with our target 
of under £500 per home passed. 
Outlook
Based on our experience to date, we remain confident about the 
potential to roll out FTTP in scale. At a build cost of under £500 per 
premise passed and 30%–40% take-up, we believe it will be possible 
to build a c.10 million household network across the UK. We see 
ultrafast as an opportunity to build a mass market, value for money 
proposition that delivers value for consumers and shareholders 
through keen pricing and rapid scaling.
Our preliminary discussions on financing such a scale roll out have 
been positive, underscoring our confidence in the opportunity for 
building an economically viable, alternative and superior fibre 
infrastructure to that available today.
6. Inside out mobile
FY15 progress
In Q3 we reached agreement with Telefonica UK to provide full MVNO 
services (including 4G) and we have begun the process of building 
a core network that will integrate with O2’s network. 
Outlook
Through the course of 2015 we shall transition customers onto the 
O2 network. This will allow us to offer 4G services, fully integrated 
quad play and deliver much improved economics compared to our 
current arrangement with Vodafone, under which we offer mobile 
primarily as an add-on. Over the course of the next two years, our 
economics will improve further as we integrate our core network 
with that of O2, and thereby also building our own mobile asset. 
We shall also begin deploying femtocells (through a router upgrade 
programme) which will allow us to offload mobile traffic onto our 
fixed line network via our in-home 4G network (delivering a superior 
in-home voice experience). This capacity to offload mobile traffic 
onto our fixed network will not only deliver significantly reduced 
costs, for both voice and data usage but also give customers 
much improved in home mobile reception.
The construction of ultrafast fibre and an inside out mobile network 
will enable us to offer a completely seamless, value for money 
consumer quad play and high speed business data service which 
will drive growth for the foreseeable future.
Guidance 
FY16
Revenue and EBITDA
We expect FY16 revenues to grow by at least 5%, driven by continuing 
growth in customer numbers and ARPU, and growth in TalkTalk 
Business revenues. We expect strong growth in EBITDA and free cash 
flow as we make progress towards our FY17 target, whilst reinvesting 
cost savings from Making TalkTalk Simpler (‘MTTS’).
Net debt
Capex to maintain and expand the network is expected to be within 
our guideline of 6%–6.5% of revenue. In addition we expect to spend 
an additional 1%–2% of revenues on capex to support our inside out 
mobile and fibre innovation projects. 
Cash exceptional items related to MTTS, the integration of acquisitions 
and mobile migration activity are expected to be c.£40m–£45m.
Dividend
We plan to grow the FY15 dividend by 15%.
FY15 – FY17
In November 2013, we raised our FY14-FY17 revenue CAGR target 
from 2% to 4% and set our medium term EBITDA margin target of 
25% to be achieved by FY17. With revenue momentum accelerating 
through FY15, we are now targeting CAGR in revenue of at least 5% 
over the next two years and remain on track to achieve our FY17 
EBITDA margin target of 25% in FY17.
Dido Harding
Chief Executive Officer
13 May 2015
