 Headlines 
• Group adjusted profit before tax in line 
with February guidance, 30% lower at 
£224m (2014 – £322m):
 – Costs from operational and supply 
chain disruption of £20m
 – SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose adjusted 
operating profits lower by £46m 
(£43m in constant currency)
 – European Bulk Ingredients adjusted 
operating profit lower by £17m
• Speciality Food Ingredients adjusted 
operating profit 29% lower in constant 
currency at £149m (2014 – £213m)
• Bulk Ingredients adjusted operating 
profit 19% lower in constant currency 
at £133m (2014 – £172m) 
• Business re-alignment announced on 
21 April 2015 to further focus on and 
strengthen Speciality Food Ingredients:
 – Re-focus SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose on 
rigorous value-based strategy and 
consolidate production into one 
facility: impairment charge of £113m 
included in total exceptional charges 
of £142m (2014 – £14m)
 – Re-align Eaststarch European joint 
venture by acquiring full ownership  
of the more speciality-focused plant 
in Slovakia and exiting predominantly 
Bulk Ingredients plants in Bulgaria, 
Turkey and Hungary. We will receive 
€240m in cash on completion of the 
transaction
• Implementation of new supplementary 
disclosure framework to provide more 
detail on business performance, 
including new disclosure on Innovation; 
volume from new products nearly 
doubled in the year
• Two major new product launches: 
DOLCIA PRIMA
TM
 Allulose and 
CLARIA
®
 Functional Clean-Label 
Starches
• Speciality Food Ingredients completed 
two ‘bolt-on’ acquisitions in Asia Pacific 
and Latin America
• Proposed final dividend of 19.8p, 
making a total dividend of 28.0p  
(2014 – 27 .6p), up 1.4% on prior year
• The Board intends to maintain the total 
dividend payment at 28.0p for the year 
ending 31 March 2016
08 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
How did we address 
the challenges faced 
this year?
We put in place a programme 
to implement improvements 
required to operating and supply 
chain planning capabilities and  
to internal planning processes.
  Overview of the Group’s performance
The Group’s performance for the year was 
significantly held back by three main factors: 
first, the impact of operational and supply 
chain issues experienced mainly in the first 
half of the financial year; secondly, the 
continued extremely competitive market  
for SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose; and thirdly, the 
impact in the second half of the financial 
year of volatility and lower pricing in some  
of the commodity markets in which our Bulk 
Ingredients business operates.
Adjusted sales for the year were £2,694 
million (2014 – £3,147 million), 14% lower 
than the prior year (11% in constant 
currency), with adjusted sales in Speciality 
Food Ingredients down 8% (4% in constant 
currency) to £908 million (2014 – £983 
million) and 17% lower in Bulk Ingredients 
(14% in constant currency) at £1,786 million 
(2014 – £2,164 million). Adjusted operating 
profit was 29% lower (27% in constant 
currency) at £247 million (2014 – £349 
million), with adjusted operating profit in 
Speciality Food Ingredients down 30%  
(29% in constant currency) to £149 million  
(2014 – £213 million), and 23% lower (19%  
in constant currency) in Bulk Ingredients at 
£133 million (2014 – £172 million). Adjusted 
profit before tax was 30% lower (28% in 
constant currency), at £224 million (2014 – 
£322 million), and adjusted diluted earnings 
per share was 32% lower (29% in constant 
currency) at 37 .7p (2014 – 55.7p). 
Balance sheet and financial 
management
Net debt of £504 million at 31 March 2015 
was higher than at the end of the prior year 
(2014 – £353 million), resulting mainly from 
lower earnings, capital investments in 
growth of Speciality Food Ingredients, 
dividend payments and adverse exchange 
movements of £46 million (including 
£7 million from joint ventures), primarily as  
a result of an increase in the value of dollar- 
denominated debt due to the strengthening 
of the US dollar against sterling.
The key performance indicators (KPIs) of  
our financial strength, the ratio of net debt  
to pre-exceptional earnings before interest, 
tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 
and interest cover, remain well within our 
internal thresholds. At 31 March 2015,  
the net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.3 times  
(2014 – 0.8 times), against our internal 
threshold of 2.0 times, and interest cover  
on total operations was 10.7 times,  
(2014 – 11.6 times), comfortably ahead  
of our minimum threshold of 5.0 times.
The return we generate on our assets 
decreased during the year due to lower 
earnings with a return on capital employed 
of 13.9% (2014 – 19.2%), although this 
remains well ahead of our weighted average 
cost of capital.
Our average quarterly cash conversion  
cycle worsened by eight days to 47 days 
(2014 – 39 days) resulting primarily from 
higher inventory days, as we rebuilt inventory 
and recovered from supply chain disruption, 
and higher receivables days, partially offset 
by higher payables days. 
Safety
As a result of the four tragic accidents that 
occurred in the 2013 and 2014 calendar 
years which led to five fatalities, during the 
year we undertook a thorough review of our 
safety management and accident prevention 
programmes across the Group. This 
included the use of external safety auditors 
to review safety management and controls 
at all of our major manufacturing sites. 
Based on these reviews, we have further 
strengthened our safety and accident 
prevention programmes, which are being 
overseen by the Corporate Responsibility 
Committee of the Board. Our clear priority 
going forward is to re-establish the 
consistently high level of safety performance 
we have achieved in previous years.
New supplementary disclosure 
framework
To provide more detail on our business 
performance, in addition to the segmental 
disclosure required under IFRS (which 
remains unchanged), and given the evolving 
nature of the business including the changes 
announced in April, we intend to disclose 
additional information regarding the 
performance of our operating segments.  
We believe this will provide a clearer 
understanding of the drivers of performance, 
better highlight the impact of commodity 
volatility, and drive a greater understanding 
of the sustainable growth potential of the 
business. Details of the additional 
disclosures are set out on page 31.
Operational and supply chain 
disruption
Internal operational and supply chain 
disruption significantly impacted our 
business during the year, leading both to 
additional costs of order fulfilment totalling 
£20 million and some missed sales 
opportunities. This disruption occurred due 
to a combination of factors. The unusually 
prolonged and severe 2013/14 winter in  
the US caused operational difficulties in our 
US plants which led us to enter the 2015 
financial year with much lower inventories 
than usual. Then, in the first quarter of the 
financial year, following an industrial 
accident, our SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose facility 
in Singapore had to take an extended 
shutdown. These events materially disrupted 
our supply chain as we had to manage a 
combination of operational challenges in  
our plant network, low absolute levels of 
inventory, and misalignments between 
customer demand and inventory location.
As a result of these issues, in September 
2014, we initiated a detailed review of our 
global demand, supply and planning 
processes. This review, which was 
completed in February 2015, confirmed  
that the programme of incremental capacity 
expansion announced as part of our May 
2014 full year results, together with ongoing 
actions to increase inventory held closer  
to our customers, will allow us to better 
manage customer needs. The additional 
capacity is expected to come on stream  
in the second half of the 2016 financial year 
as planned. The review also highlighted that 
improvements were required to operating 
and supply chain planning capabilities and 
to the robustness of internal planning 
processes. A programme to implement 
these improvements is progressing well and 
a number of actions are already in place. We 
will continue to execute these improvements 
during the course of the 2016 financial year. 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose
Adjusted operating profit from SPLENDA
®
 
Sucralose for the year ended 31 March 2015 
was £16 million, 73% lower than the prior 
year (2014 – £62 million). As a result of this 
significant deterioration in profitability, during 
the year we undertook a detailed analysis  
of this business to evaluate how best to 
maximise returns. This analysis found that, 
while demand for sucralose remains strong 
driven largely by consumer desire for more 
calorie-reduced food and drink and by the 
superior taste and functionality that 
sucralose delivers, a substantial increase in 
industry capacity, particularly over the past 
two years, had led to supply being well in 
excess of demand. This had caused 
industry behaviour and economics to 
change significantly and we do not expect 
this situation to change materially in the 
medium term. 
Accordingly, on 21 April 2015, we 
announced our SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose 
business would be re-focused in two ways. 
First, by taking a rigorous valued-based 
approach to securing volume by focusing  
on the areas where we see value with 
customers who fully value the benefits  
of our SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose product  
including quality, provenance, food safety 
and responsible manufacturing and 
environmental practices. Secondly, by 
materially lowering the manufacturing cost 
base of the business by consolidating all 
production into our McIntosh, Alabama 
facility in the US from spring 2016. After a 
phased transition over the next 12 months, 
the Singapore facility will close permanently. 
We expect to invest around £18 million  
to consolidate production in McIntosh.  
This mainly relates to the transfer of 
equipment from Singapore to McIntosh  
and for additional equipment at McIntosh  
to produce all our SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose 
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 0 9  
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE USEFUL INFORMATION product forms. When the transfer is 
complete in spring 2016, McIntosh will be 
capable of supplying our customers’ existing 
and ongoing needs. 
The Singapore facility has played an 
important role in establishing the prominent 
position of SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose in the 
global high-intensity sweetener market and 
has provided strong returns to investors over 
its life-cycle which have been well in excess 
of our cost of capital. However, the 
combined effect of lower market pricing and 
higher energy and other production costs  
at the location, led us to conclude that the 
facility will not be cost competitive going 
forward. The McIntosh facility operating  
at a higher scale and utilisation level than  
it does currently will provide a materially 
lower-cost manufacturing position from 
which to operate. 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose is an integral 
ingredient in many of our customers’ 
products, and sucralose continues to be  
the most incorporated high-intensity 
sweetener in new product launches globally. 
The fundamental changes we are making  
to how we approach the market and our 
manufacturing footprint will position 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose as a more focused, 
low-cost and sustainable business. We 
expect this business to be around 
breakeven before the impact of exceptional 
items in the year ending 31 March 2016, with 
some anticipated transition costs offsetting 
a lower depreciation charge, and looking 
further ahead, we expect the business to 
return to modest profitability  
in the 2017 financial year.
Re-alignment of the Eaststarch 
European joint venture
On 21 April 2015, we signed an agreement 
with Archer Daniels Midland Company 
(ADM) to re-align our Eaststarch C.V. 
(Eaststarch) joint-venture corn wet milling 
business in Europe in which we each own  
a 50% equity share. Under the terms of the 
agreement, we will:
• Strengthen our Speciality Food 
Ingredients business by acquiring full 
ownership of the more speciality-focused 
plant in Slovakia
• Substantially reduce our European Bulk 
Ingredients footprint by exiting the 
predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants  
in Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary which  
will transfer to ADM
• Receive a cash sum of €240 million at 
closing, subject to customary closing 
adjustments, including for net cash and 
working capital, and an additional payment 
of up to €20 million in 2019 conditional on 
future corn and sugar pricing
• Continue to supply our European 
customers with crystalline fructose, a 
speciality sweetener, by being appointed 
as exclusive distributor for crystalline 
fructose produced from the plant in Turkey 
under a long-term agreement
• Focus our European business on 
speciality food ingredients by appointing 
ADM as exclusive agent for bulk 
ingredients produced from the plant in 
Slovakia and Tate & Lyle’s wholly-owned 
corn wet mill in the Netherlands under  
a long-term agreement. 
Completion of the agreement is conditional 
upon regulatory clearances which we 
expect in summer 2015. 
The reform of the EU Sugar Regime in 
October 2017 opens the way to greater 
competition between isoglucose and sugar 
in the EU that will bring with it the need for 
potentially significant capital investment in 
bulk sweeteners. Our strategy since 2010 
has been to invest for growth in Speciality 
Food Ingredients and, therefore, the 
re-alignment of the joint venture enables  
us to realise good value from our European 
Bulk Ingredients’ assets before a decision 
on capital investment is required.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, Eaststarch 
had adjusted operating profit of £107 million 
of which the Group has a 50% share. Due  
to lower EU sugar prices, the results of 
Eaststarch for the year ended 31 March 
2015 were around 23% lower at £83 million.
Had the transaction taken effect from 1 April 
2014, Group adjusted operating profit in the 
year ended 31 March 2015 would have been 
reduced by £32 million and diluted earnings 
per share would have been reduced by  
5.5 pence. Depending on the timing of 
completion of the transaction and the final 
transition arrangements, we anticipate the 
reduction on Group earnings will be 
somewhat lower in the year ending 31 March 
2016. We anticipate that, following the 
impact of re-structuring the European 
operations, from the start of the year ending 
31 March 2017 the dilution in earnings as a 
result of the transaction will be around  
3 pence per share. 
The re-alignment of Eaststarch represents 
another important step in the evolution of 
Tate & Lyle into a global speciality food 
ingredients business. The plant in Slovakia 
provides a solid base from which to grow 
our speciality food ingredients business  
in Europe, and we intend to increase the 
production of speciality food ingredients  
at the plant over time. As a result of the 
re-alignment, the proportion of Group 
adjusted operating profit from Speciality 
Food Ingredients (excluding SPLENDA
®
 
Sucralose) will increase from 47% to around 
55%, and in Europe, Speciality Food 
Ingredients will effectively contribute all  
of the profit.
Reducing volatility in Bulk Ingredients 
Our strategy is to progressively re-position 
our Bulk Ingredients division to dampen 
volatility and create a more stable, cash-
generative business. The re-alignment  
of the Eaststarch joint venture, which will  
result in the Group substantially exiting  
bulk sweeteners in Europe and therefore 
reducing our exposure to volatility in the  
EU sugar market (which impacted our profits 
in the second half of the 2015 financial year), 
is fully in line with that strategy. 
Following the re-alignment, Bulk Ingredients 
will become a predominantly North 
American business. In North America,  
Bulk Ingredients benefits from strong 
positions in mature but large markets such 
as bulk sweeteners and industrial starches, 
long-standing customer relationships, and 
scale, efficient manufacturing assets. In the 
US, these manufacturing assets (corn wet 
mills) are integrated with the production of 
speciality food ingredients and therefore 
also provide an efficient manufacturing  
base from which to support growth in  
that business.
North America also has structural 
advantages which enable better 
management of the volatility inherent in this 
business. For example, in the US, unlike in 
Europe, we have access to a corn futures 
market which allows us to hedge US corn 
exposures. In addition, we continue to 
proactively manage the business to  
dampen volatility where possible, such  
as by moving more customers in the US  
to tolling contracts which now represent 
around 75% of US bulk sweetener volumes. 
Increasing the number of toll customers 
helps to reduce the risk of underlying 
commodity movements.
10 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
Chief Executive’s Review continued
STRATEGIC REPORT Solid strategic progress in Speciality 
Food Ingredients
While the financial performance of the 
Speciality Food Ingredients division during 
the year was held back by supply constraints 
and price erosion in SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose, 
the underlying business and demand for our 
products remains strong, and we made good 
progress on a number of fronts.
We continue to build our technical expertise 
and infrastructure in the higher growth 
markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America,  
in which adjusted sales for the business 
excluding SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose and Food 
Systems now represent 15% of total adjusted 
sales in Speciality Food Ingredients, up from 
8% in 2011. Asia Pacific and Latin America 
(excluding Food Systems) now represent 
nearly 20% of the employees in Speciality 
Food Ingredients. 
We executed two ‘bolt-on’ acquisitions in 
Asia Pacific and Latin America during the 
year. In August, we completed the acquisition 
of Winway Biotechnology Nantong Co., Ltd 
based in Nantong, China. Winway is a 
producer of polydextrose fibre in China and 
this acquisition provides a strong base from 
which to accelerate the growth of our dietary 
fibres business in Asia Pacific. In December, 
we acquired a majority equity interest in 
Gemacom Tech Indústria e Comércio S.A. 
(Gemacom), the leading domestically-owned 
food systems business in Brazil. During 
December, we paid £12 million to terminate 
distribution rights previously held by a  
third party to sell our crystalline fructose  
to customers primarily in Asia Pacific.  
We continue to actively explore further 
opportunities, including acquisitions and 
partnerships, with a strong focus on Asia 
Pacific and Latin America.
Robust innovation pipeline
Innovation is a key driver of long-term growth 
for Tate & Lyle. Our innovation approach 
starts with a deep understanding of the 
consumer and to ensure that changing 
consumer perceptions and trends influence 
the categories we operate in. Our 
understanding of these long-term global 
consumer trends drives our innovation 
approach and priorities, such as the 
increasing demand for convenience food,  
a much greater focus on health and wellness 
particularly in light of the rising incidence of 
obesity and diabetes worldwide, and an 
increasing preference for ‘natural’ and 
‘clean-label’ foods. Our aim is to help 
consumers make healthier and tastier 
choices whenever they eat or drink and to 
deliver this we focus our resources and 
expertise in three main areas of market 
opportunity: calorie, sugar, salt and fat 
reduction; fibre enrichment; and ‘clean label’. 
These are attractive spaces to operate  
in given growing strong consumer demand. 
For example, global product launches 
containing fibres between calendar years 
2011 and 2014 increased by a compound 
annual growth rate (CAGR) of 33%, reflecting 
increased consumer awareness of the 
importance of fibre in diets.
During the year, we launched two major  
new products which directly address two  
of the consumer trends we are focusing  
on – calorie reduction and ‘clean label’.  
Both these new products were developed  
at our three year-old global Commercial and 
Food Innovation Centre in Chicago, USA, 
demonstrating the innovation capabilities  
we are steadily beginning to build.
In September, we launched our new 
CLARIA
®
 line of functional ‘clean-label’ 
starches. CLARIA
®
 starches, developed 
through a proprietary patent-pending 
process, provide food manufacturers  
with functionality similar to modified food 
starches but with the benefits of a cleaner 
colour, a cleaner taste, and a ‘clean label’  
(ie they label simply as ‘starch’). 
Then, in February, we launched DOLCIA 
PRIMA
TM
 Allulose, a low-calorie sugar in the 
US. DOLCIA PRIMA
TM
 is our brand name for 
allulose, a sugar that exists in nature but that 
has 90% fewer calories than sucrose (table 
sugar). To produce allulose, we developed a 
unique, patent-protected process to convert 
basic agricultural raw materials (currently 
corn in the US) into allulose. DOLCIA 
PRIMA
TM
 is expected to allow food and 
beverage manufacturers to significantly 
reduce the calories in products while 
maintaining the same great taste and texture 
of sugar which consumers enjoy. 
Both these new product launches have 
attracted strong customer interest reflecting 
the health and wellness benefits they bring 
to consumers and their relevance to our 
customers’ development priorities. A range of 
projects with customers are underway giving 
us confidence in their long-term potential.
New products, although still relatively small, 
are growing strongly with an 86% volume 
CAGR rate between the 2011 and 2015 
financial years, and volume in the 2015 
financial year almost double the prior year. 
The pipeline remains robust with a number 
of projects at various stages of development 
including four in the final stages with 
expected launches in the next 12-24 months. 
Strengthening the executive 
management team
The senior leadership team was substantially 
strengthened during the year with the 
objective of leading the Group into the next 
stage of its development. During the year, 
the following appointments were made to 
the Group Executive Committee:
i) Gabriella Parisse was appointed 
President, Innovation and Commercial 
Development from 1 May 2014. Gabriella 
joined Tate & Lyle in September 2012 as 
Senior Vice President, Global Marketing, 
having previously spent 25 years at 
Johnson & Johnson. 
ii) Nick Hampton was appointed Chief 
Financial Officer (and a member of the 
Board of Directors) from 1 September 
2014. Nick joined Tate & Lyle from 
PepsiCo where he worked for 20 years.
iii) Joan Braca was appointed President, 
Speciality Food Ingredients from  
1 November 2014. Joan joined Tate & Lyle 
in January 2013 as Senior Vice President 
& General Manager, Asia Pacific, 
Speciality Food Ingredients. Prior to 
joining Tate & Lyle, Joan spent nearly  
20 years in the speciality chemicals 
industry mainly with Rohm and Haas  
(part of the Dow Chemical Company 
since 2009).
iv) Rowan Adams was appointed Executive 
Vice President, Corporate Affairs from  
13 November 2014 with global 
responsibility for communications and risk 
management. Rowan joined Tate & Lyle 
from National Westminster Bank in 2001.
v) Pierre Schoumacher was appointed 
President of the newly formed Global 
Operations unit from 13 November 2014 
with responsibility for activities from  
raw material procurement through to 
manufacturing, supply chain and 
logistics. Pierre joined Tate & Lyle from 
Procter & Gamble in 2000. 
vi) Jim Stutelberg joined Tate & Lyle on 
1 December 2014 and was appointed 
President, Bulk Ingredients. Jim joined  
from PPG Industries where he led its 
Automotive Coatings business. Prior to  
that, he spent 13 years with Dow Corning.
Delivering a global IS/IT system
In August, we successfully rolled out our 
single, global IS/IT system to our North 
American business. This followed the 
upgrade of this system in our European 
business (not including the Food Systems 
business) in May. We are now focused  
on fully embedding the new processes  
and systems.
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 11  
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE USEFUL INFORMATION Conclusion
The long-term transformation of Tate & Lyle 
continues to be a major undertaking with 
nearly all areas of the global business 
impacted in some way. Infrastructure, 
systems, processes and the organisation 
have all been materially changed. In some 
areas such as innovation, our customer-
facing capabilities, our presence in Asia 
Pacific and Latin America, and the strength 
of our people, we have made very good 
progress. In others, such as our global 
supply chain, we have faced major 
challenges and work is underway to address 
these. I would like to thank all employees 
across Tate & Lyle for their continued hard 
work and dedication during what has been  
a challenging year.
While our financial performance in the year 
has been disappointing, the underlying 
business and demand for our products 
remains strong. With a portfolio of products 
with strong market positions, an expanding 
global footprint, and a steady flow of new 
products targeted at addressing major 
consumer trends, particularly in the health 
and wellness space, our Speciality Food 
Ingredients business is structurally well-
positioned for the future. 
By re-aligning the Eaststarch joint venture, 
Bulk Ingredients will reduce its exposure to 
volatility in the form of European sugar price 
fluctuations, and become a predominantly 
North American business with strong market 
positions and scale, efficient assets. These 
assets also provide a low cost manufacturing 
base from which to support continuing 
growth in Speciality Food Ingredients.
We are firmly focused on improving our 
performance and continuing the evolution  
of Tate & Lyle into a global Speciality Food 
Ingredients business supported by cash 
generated from Bulk Ingredients. As we enter 
the new financial year, we believe Tate & Lyle 
is a more streamlined, focused and higher 
quality business, capable of generating 
sustained growth over the long term. 
Key performance indicators (KPIs)
Our KPIs for the year ended 31 March 2015 
are detailed on pages 22 and 23.
Outlook
The year ahead will be one of structural 
change as we re-align the Eaststarch joint 
venture and SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose, embed 
changes to improve our global supply chain 
capabilities, and bring on line additional 
growth capacity for Speciality Food 
Ingredients. We anticipate that, in this year of 
change, adjusted profit before tax for the year 
ending 31 March 2016 will be broadly in line 
with the 2015 financial year on a pro-forma
1
 
basis assuming the Eaststarch transaction 
completes in the summer as expected.
The longer term outlook for the business 
remains positive. We expect the global 
market for speciality food ingredients to 
grow at mid-single digits and our objective  
is to grow modestly ahead of the market via 
organic growth supplemented by ‘bolt-on’ 
acquisitions. We continue to target sustained 
cash flows from Bulk Ingredients and to 
dampen volatility where possible. As the  
mix of the Group moves towards our higher 
margin Speciality Food Ingredients business 
augmented by operational improvements, 
over time we expect to steadily enhance 
Group profit and returns on capital.
Javed Ahmed
Chief Executive
27 May 2015
1  Assumes foreign exchange rate of GBP:USD 
£1.00/$1.54 and completion of the Eaststarch 
transaction on 30 June 2015. See unaudited  
pro forma profit before tax for the year ended  
31 March 2014 on page 31.
12 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’s Review continued
