 Summary
This has been a very challenging year  
for the Group as we have experienced a 
number of challenges which have had  
a significant impact on our financial and 
operating performance. In the face of these 
challenges, Javed and his team are taking 
the necessary actions to identify and 
address the root causes, and minimise  
our exposure in the future.
Notwithstanding this, I am pleased the 
Group continues to make progress against 
our strategic objective set out in 2010 of 
building a foundation on which to deliver 
steady, sustainable growth in Speciality 
Food Ingredients. 
Safety
Once again, I am greatly saddened to have 
to report a fatality at one of our facilities. In 
June, one of our employees died in a tractor 
accident at one of our grain storage facilities 
in the US. This was in addition to two 
fatalities, as a result of the accident that  
I reported last year that occurred in 
Singapore in April 2014. The tragic loss of 
these lives reminds us yet again why safety 
is, and must always be, our first priority. 
While extensive analysis of the five fatalities 
which have occurred over the last two years 
has not revealed any common cause, during 
the year we undertook a thorough review 
across the Group of our safety management 
programme and accident prevention 
initiatives. This included the use of external 
safety auditors to review safety management 
and controls at our major manufacturing 
sites. Based on the findings of the review,  
a number of actions have been taken to 
further strengthen our safety processes, 
details of which are set out in the Corporate 
Responsibility section on page 39.
Dividend
The Board recognises the importance  
of dividends to shareholders and remains 
committed to the dividend policy it 
implemented in 2009. Underpinned by  
the confidence it has in the strategy of the 
business, the Board intends to recommend 
an unchanged final dividend for the year 
ended 31 March 2015 of 19.8p to make a 
total for the year of 28.0p, an increase of 
1.4%. Further, the Board intends to maintain 
the total dividend payment at 28.0p for the 
year ending 31 March 2016.
Subject to shareholder approval, the 
proposed final dividend will be due and 
payable on 31 July 2015 to all shareholders 
on the Register of Members at 3 July 2015. 
It has been a very challenging 
year for the Group but the 
determination of our employees 
across the business to  
improve our performance  
has been unwavering.
 
06 | Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015
How would you 
sum up the year?
STRATEGIC REPORT | CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT  Strategic progress 
During the year, we further strengthened our 
Speciality Food Ingredients business with the 
launch of two major new products and by 
the completion of two ‘bolt-on’ acquisitions. 
On 21 April 2015, just after the year end,  
we announced two major actions to re-align 
our business to further strengthen and focus 
on Speciality Food Ingredients. 
The first is reaching an agreement to re-align 
our European Eaststarch joint venture with 
Archer Daniels Midland Company. Through 
this re-alignment, which is subject to 
regulatory clearances and is expected to 
close in the summer, we will exit the 
predominantly Bulk Ingredients plants in 
Bulgaria, Turkey and Hungary and acquire 
full ownership of the more speciality-focused 
plant in Slovakia. 
The second is our decision to re-focus  
and re-structure our SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose 
business. As a result of significantly changed 
industry economics, we decided to make 
some fundamental changes to how we 
approach the sucralose market and our 
manufacturing footprint. More specifically,  
in addition to pursuing a rigorous value-
based approach to securing volume,  
we will materially lower our cost base by 
consolidating all SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose 
production into our US facility, and by 
closing our Singapore facility in spring 2016. 
These actions will position SPLENDA
®
 
Sucralose as a more focused, low-cost and 
sustainable business. 
The decision to close the Singapore facility, 
which has played an important role in 
establishing the prominent position of 
SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose in the global high-
intensity sweetener market, was not taken 
lightly by the Board. While this decision 
results in an impairment charge of 
£113 million, even taking into account the 
anticipated closure costs, the facility has 
provided strong returns to investors over  
its life-cycle which have been well in excess 
of our cost of capital.
I would like to thank all our employees in  
the Eaststarch joint venture and at our 
Singapore facility who will be leaving the 
Group, for their support and commitment 
over the years. I wish them well for the future.
Operational performance 
The particularly prolonged and severe 
2013/14 winter in the US meant that we 
entered the year with significantly reduced 
inventory levels which impacted our ability  
to fulfil customer orders. Our ability to meet 
orders for SPLENDA
®
 Sucralose was also 
impacted by the extended shutdown of the 
Singapore plant following the accident in 
April 2014. These factors, together with 
unexpectedly strong demand in emerging 
markets, placed significant pressure on our 
global supply chain, leading to additional 
costs of fulfilment and some missed sales 
opportunities. 
As a result of these issues, a detailed review 
of our global planning and supply chain 
processes was conducted. We have also 
confirmed that, although no material 
incremental capital investment was required 
to better manage customer needs beyond 
the programme of capital expenditure 
announced as part of our May 2014 full year 
results, improvements were needed in  
our operating and supply chain planning 
capabilities and to other internal planning 
processes. A programme to implement 
these improvements is underway.
Board composition 
On 1 September, Nick Hampton joined  
Tate & Lyle as Chief Financial Officer having 
spent 20 years working at PepsiCo. Nick 
brings extensive financial, commercial and 
technical experience to Tate & Lyle and is  
a very welcome addition to our executive 
team and our Board.
We are very grateful to Tim Lodge for his 
important contribution in his six years as 
Chief Financial Officer and throughout his 
25-year career with Tate & Lyle. We wish him 
every success in the next stage of his career.
At the end of December, Robert Walker 
stepped down from the Board following the 
completion of his term of appointment and  
I would like to thank Robert for his 
commitment and hard work during his 
tenure.
In January, we welcomed Paul Forman to  
the Board as a non-executive director and  
a member of the audit, remuneration and 
nominations committees. Paul’s wide 
experience of managing international 
businesses, developing business-to-business 
customer and market-led strategies, and 
commercialising innovation pipelines will be 
of significant benefit to the Board. 
Capital allocation policy
The effective use of capital on behalf of 
shareholders is our primary objective. To 
support our growth strategy we believe in 
maintaining an efficient, but prudent, capital 
structure, while retaining the flexibility to 
invest in growing the business. As such, our 
balance sheet will continue to be managed 
to maintain debt ratios within an investment 
grade credit rating. Our priorities for the 
allocation of capital are as follows: 
• First of all we want to ensure that we  
have sufficient resources to invest in the 
business to fund working capital and 
growth in Speciality Food Ingredients
• Second, is our commitment to a 
progressive dividend policy, where we aim 
to grow the dividend over time taking into 
account the earnings prospects of the 
business
• Third, we will look to maintain flexibility to 
accelerate our strategy through selective 
acquisitions.
Conclusion
It has been a very challenging year for the 
Group but the determination of our 
employees across the business to improve 
our performance has been unwavering.  
I would like to acknowledge their hard work 
and, on behalf of the Board, thank them for 
their outstanding commitment and support.
Sir Peter Gershon
Chairman
27 May 2015
Tate & Lyle PLC | Annual Report 2015 | 07  
STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE USEFUL INFORMATION
