 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 10
MARKETS
We supply a wide range of essential services under the Utility Warehouse brand (Gas, Electricity, Landline, 
Broadband and Mobile) to both domestic and small business Members throughout the UK; these are all 
substantial markets and represent a vast opportunity for further organic growth.
The markets we operate in are dominated by a relatively small number of former monopoly suppliers and 
other owners of infrastructure assets, although in each there are also a number of independent suppliers 
carving out their own niches, generally based on offering highly competitive introductory short-term fixed 
price contracts promoted through price comparison sites. 
BUSINESS MODEL
We have a fundamentally different business model to any other utility provider in the UK in three key 
respects:
•  we operate our business as a Discount Club; each of our customers becomes a Member, receiving a level 
of service commensurate with that status;
•  we are the only fully integrated provider of both energy and communications services in the country. This 
enables us to enjoy unparalleled levels of operating efficiency as we are able to spread a single set of 
overheads across the multiple revenue streams that we derive from each of our Members; and 
•  we have a unique route to market, with an ‘army’ of almost 50,000 part-time self-employed Partners; 
rather than seeking to attract new Members through expensive advertising, direct marketing or price 
comparison sites, we instead benefit from genuine personal recommendations by both our Partners, and 
by existing Members.
Partners can earn a small percentage of the monthly revenues generated by any Members gathered, 
either personally, or by someone in their team. On a similar basis, we reward our existing Members with 
shopping vouchers when they introduce a new Member to the Club. 
Our Members value the Savings (compared with the prices they were paying their previous suppliers), 
Simplicity (the convenience and ease of budgeting provided by a single monthly bill), and Service (from 
our award-winning UK call centre) that we offer. In addition, an increasing number are benefitting from our 
innovative CashBack proposition.
The delivery of these core benefits is critical to our route to market, giving our Partners the confidence to 
promote our services to their friends and family – as well as generating recommendations from existing 
Members who in many cases also become advocates for our brand. The Net Promoter Scores (“NPS”) of 
around +45 that we consistently achieve reflect our relentless focus on this goal, and are in stark contrast to 
the negative NPS scores prevalent within the utility and telecoms markets. 
Against a backdrop where most of our competitors seem focussed almost solely on price, we believe that 
genuinely earning the Trust of our Members is the key point of differentiation that will enable us to achieve 
our medium term growth objectives. By treating our Members as we would like to be treated ourselves, we 
