 Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2015 4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
I am delighted to report another successful year for the Company with revenues, 
profits, earnings and dividends all reaching record levels.
This has been achieved in the face of the most competitive trading conditions 
we have yet seen, where a sustained fall in wholesale energy prices over the last 
18 months and aggressive promotional activity by a number of new entrants 
into the energy market (who are not carrying the burden of energy hedged at 
historically higher prices), has combined to create a record gap between the 
introductory fixed price deals available to those who switch, and the standard 
variable tariffs paid by the vast majority of domestic consumers; this has been 
exacerbated by an industry-wide tendency (excluding ourselves) to use the 
higher margins earned on legacy customers to help fund such introductory 
deals. We are strongly opposed to customers being exploited in this way, and 
there is a widespread expectation that this issue will be addressed in due 
course through a combination of regulatory intervention (either as part of the 
CMA review of the energy industry whose report is expected this summer, or by 
Ofgem), and by reductions in standard variable tariffs as larger suppliers reflect 
the prevailing lower level of commodity costs.
Against this background, the continued strong organic growth we have 
delivered in both service numbers and the size of our membership base over 
the last year is a clear and positive endorsement of our unique business 
model. We remain on track to achieve our medium term target of one million 
households, although it is now apparent that our path towards this destination 
will not be in a straight line; growth will be higher during periods when market 
conditions are favourable, and slower when (as currently) the competitive 
environment is more challenging.
On 16 April 2015 the Company informed shareholders that a detailed review of 
the unbilled energy debtor on our balance sheet had revealed that our share of 
the industry-wide leakage within the national gas distribution network had been 
running at a significantly higher level than we had previously provided against. 
The resultant £11m write-down of this current asset on our balance sheet (net 
of anticipated tax credits), although a non-cash item, has reduced both historic 
and current reported earnings, and is extremely disappointing given the strong 
underlying performance of the business over the last year, and our exciting 
prospects for future profitable organic growth.
‘‘
” Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 5
RESULTS OVERVIEW
Adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 22.5% to £52.2m (2014: £42.6m) on revenue up by 10.5% to 
£729.2m (2014: £659.7m); adjusted earnings per share for the year rose by 9.3% to 53.0p (2014: 
48.5p).
The increase in profitability reflects the consistent organic growth we have achieved over the last two years, 
combined with a full year’s additional margin contribution from the new supply arrangements with Npower 
which we entered into in December 2013, partially offset by writing off the higher costs associated with 
leakage within the national gas distribution network than had previously been expected.
Revenue growth was constrained by a fall in average energy consumption within our domestic membership 
base compared with the previous year, reflecting both milder weather and the progressive impact of the 
energy efficiency measures that have been delivered by the industry over the last few years; this impact 
was exacerbated by lower average energy prices during the year following the price reductions we 
implemented in early 2014 and early 2015. 
We remain encouraged by the continuing organic growth in the number of services we are providing 
through our Utility Warehouse brand, which reached 2,093,447 (2014: 1,884,694) by the year end – an 
increase of more than 200,000 services during the year. This growth has been broadly spread across all 
our core services (Gas, Electricity, Home Phone, Mobile and Broadband) with 58,753 (2014: 40,544) 
residential Members now taking all five of these services from us out of a total of 66,898 with our ‘Double 
Gold’ bundle. This takes our ‘Double Gold’ penetration up to around 12% of our residential membership 
base - a 44% increase in the number of Members taking this premium bundle over the last 12 months.
In line with previous guidance, we are proposing a final dividend of 21p (2014: 19p), bringing the total 
for the year to 40p (2014: 35p); this represents an increase of 14% compared with last year. We remain 
committed to a progressive dividend policy consistent with the underlying strong cash generation of our 
business.
We were delighted to receive a number of further endorsements from Which? and MoneyWise during the 
year recognising both the value we offer and the quality of service provided by our UK based membership 
service team, including being ranked as one of the top three suppliers in all the surveys we were featured 
in, and being shortlisted as ‘Best Telecom Services Provider’ at their 2015 Annual Awards. This is a 
reflection of the continuing focus and significant ongoing resources invested into delivering the best possible 
service to our Members, consistent with securing our position as the Nation’s most trusted utility supplier. 
Our share of the profits from Opus Energy Group Limited (“Opus”), in which we maintain a 20% stake, 
increased during the year to £6.0m (2014: £4.7m). This business continues to trade strongly, and we 
anticipate our contribution for the coming year will remain at a broadly similar level, before moving 
forward again in 2017.  Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2015 6
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
Our commitment to being the Nation’s most trusted utility supplier and to treating our Members fairly makes 
it inappropriate for us to adopt the same marketing strategies as our competitors, who combine cheap 
introductory deals for new customers with much higher tariffs charged to their loyal existing customer base 
who do not appreciate the extent to which they are being exploited.
This approach has become increasingly prevalent across the market for all the services we offer. 
Introductory standard broadband deals offering up to 18 months free, compared with a monthly charge of 
up to £20 (or more) for existing loyal customers; new mobile tariffs with larger inclusive allowances and 
lower monthly charges, that existing customers cannot switch to without paying substantial penalties; and 
in domestic energy markets, one-year fixed term introductory deals have emerged that are up to £400 
cheaper than the standard variable tariffs available from the same supplier. They are all competing for 
market share using the same distribution channels (direct marketing campaigns and price comparison 
websites), where the primary means of differentiating themselves from each other is the headline price of 
the introductory deal they are offering.
This is not only fundamentally unfair on existing loyal customers, but unlikely to create a sustainable long 
term business, as customers who have chosen to switch once based solely on the headline price on a 
comparison site must have a higher propensity to do so again when their introductory deal expires. 
Our alternative approach is to focus on treating all our Members in a fair manner, and to give everyone 
consistently good value on all their services. Accordingly, we don’t offer heavily discounted one-year 
introductory energy deals to new Members, and with all our telephony services (landline, broadband and 
mobile), both new and existing Members pay exactly the same prices for identical packages. 
Our bad debt charge for the year remained low, even though a significant number of new Members joined 
during the year, and delinquency levels (which are a useful lead indicator of future bad debt) saw a further 
small reduction over the course of the year reflecting the improving quality of our membership base.
ROUTE TO MARKET
Significant numbers of new Partners joined the business during the year, taking the total number of 
registered Partners at the year end to a record high of 49,539 (2014: 44,056). Although many of these 
will not be active on a regular basis, this continuing high level of interest reflects the growing awareness of 
our brand and the attractiveness of the secure part-time additional income opportunity we offer.
We continue to invest in improving the personal development programme we offer, free of charge, to both 
new and existing Partners. This is designed to help them gather Members more effectively and build a 
growing long-term residual income.
It is encouraging that notwithstanding the absence of ‘loss leader’ introductory deals for new Members, 
the combined impact of an improved online training course and a revised incentive structure means that a 
higher proportion of new Partners are making a successful start to building their Utility Warehouse business 
than we were seeing during the comparable period last year. Improving the effectiveness of new Partners 
remains a core focus for the business, and we have recently been trialling a new approach to classroom 
training; this has delivered encouraging results, and we will be rolling this out across the UK next month.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED  Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 7
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) encourages the Chairman to report personally on how 
the principles in the Code relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
As a Board we are responsible to the Company’s shareholders for delivering sustainable shareholder value 
over the long term through effective management and good governance. A key role of mine, as Executive 
Chairman, is to provide strong leadership to enable the Board to operate effectively. 
We believe that open and rigorous debate around key strategic issues and risks faced by the Company is 
important in achieving our objectives and the Company is fortunate to have non-executive directors with 
diverse and extensive business experience who actively contribute to these discussions. 
Further detail of the Company’s governance processes and compliance with the Code is set out in the 
Corporate Governance Statement. 
OUTLOOK
Recent Trading
A record number of Partners attended our annual sales conference in March, where we made some 
important changes to our membership proposition designed to help them build their businesses more 
effectively. These included discontinuing our previous introductory offer of six months free broadband for 
all new Members taking our ‘Gold Talk’ and ‘Double Gold’ bundles, and replacing it with a two-year fixed 
price energy tariff and choice from a range of new optional extra benefits; these are only available to 
owner-occupiers, and on identical terms to both new and existing Members. 
This decision was driven by the significant difference in churn rates (and hence the length of time they can 
be expected to remain a Member) between different segments of our membership base, which makes it 
logical to invest more in attracting and keeping the most valuable types of Member, and to reduce our 
investment where the expected membership lifetime value is lower.
This removal of up-front incentives has obviously not made it easier for our Partners to sign-up new 
Members, within a competitive environment where other suppliers have adopted a diametrically opposite 
strategy of putting as much value as possible into short-term introductory deals. Against this background, 
it is pleasing that our Partners continue to identify substantial numbers of households who can make 
significant savings by switching to us, and who empathise with our core messages of treating our Members 
fairly, delivering consistently good value and providing great service – albeit that absolute growth in the 
number of new Members is currently running below our target run-rate for the year as a whole.
Partner recruitment levels remain solid, and we look forward to the positive impact on activity levels which 
should be created by our new skills-based training programme being introduced shortly. 
Energy Prices
Within the energy sector as a whole, significant investment is needed over the next decade to renew and 
extend the distribution network, replace nuclear and coal-fired generating plant that is approaching the 
end of its useful life, roll out smart meters, and encourage the take up of energy efficiency and renewable 
energy programmes. The costs associated with delivering these initiatives are likely to put continued upward  Telecom Plus PLC  Report and Accounts 2015 8
pressure on retail energy prices in due course, although in the shorter term we anticipate these will be  
more than offset by lower wholesale energy commodity prices, which have fallen significantly over the last 
18 months, and will steadily be reducing the average hedge book costs for all major suppliers.
Regulatory
The Competition and Markets Authority has been carrying out a detailed review of the domestic energy 
market, and its initial findings are expected to be announced shortly. We welcome its focus on ensuring that 
competition amongst suppliers is working in the best interests of consumers, and look forward to hearing 
its proposals for protecting those on standard variable tariffs across the industry whose inertia is being 
exploited by their existing supplier and used to cross-subsidise introductory fixed price deals aimed at those 
who are switching.
We will shortly be starting to roll-out the installation of smart meters for our Members in line with our 
obligations to ensure all domestic energy meters are replaced by the target completion date in 2020. 
However, the continuing delays in finalising the specification of SMETS2 meters, in getting them certified, 
and in the DCC testing schedule, have created a broad consensus amongst energy suppliers that the 
original target end date for this programme is no longer achievable, and maintaining this deadline will 
simply lead to even higher fulfilment costs which will ultimately be borne by consumers.
Much money continues to be wasted within the industry with little thought apparently given to delivering 
initiatives in a way that will minimise their costs, which ultimately get passed on by suppliers to customers 
through their bills. A prime example of this is the establishment of Smart Energy GB, which has a mandate 
to spend over £85m of customers’ money over the next five years on advertising the benefits of smart 
meters, and making the public aware that this meter replacement programme is taking place, through an 
expensive multi-media campaign featuring two cartoon characters called ‘Gaz’ and ‘Leccy’. 
The changes mandated as part of Ofgem’s Retail Market Review have now been in force for over 12 
months, and it is disappointing how little impact the cheapest alternative supplier messaging rules seem to 
be having on preventing larger suppliers exploiting the inertia of their legacy customer bases, and using 
the excess profits from these customers to fund cheap introductory deals for those who are switching. This 
seems to be due to a combination of factors including: (i) a general lack of interest by many consumers in 
even reading their bill; (ii) a failure by consumers to notice or understand the cheapest tariff messaging; 
and (iii) the practice of most suppliers to send energy bills to their customers on a quarterly or annual basis, 
by which time many of the cheaper deals which were available since the previous billing date will have 
been withdrawn. 
Regulation has an important role to play in ensuring the energy markets are operating in a transparent 
manner, creating a framework which encourages real competition, protecting the rights of consumers, and 
ensuring they receive a fair deal for their energy. However, it is not clear that the right balance has recently 
always been struck. We look forward to a less detailed and more principle based approach in future, 
where innovation can flourish, and there is a clearer understanding of the need to reduce the burden of 
regulation which ultimately falls on those least able to afford it – namely domestic customers.
Within the telecoms markets, significant corporate activity has been announced during the last 12 
months, with BT having made an agreed bid for EE, and ‘3’ planning to merge with O2. If completed, 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
CONTINUED  Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
 
Telecom Plus PLC Report and Accounts 2015 9
these transactions will reduce the number of networks available for Mobile Virtual Network Operators 
(’MVNO’s’) such as ourselves to work with in future, and we are therefore encouraged that the CMA and 
Ofcom (in relation to the BT/EE transaction) and the European Commission (in relation to the ‘3’/O2 
merger) are focussed on ensuring this likely consolidation will not lead to a reduction in competition or 
consumer choice in future.
Prospects
We are encouraged by the high proportion of new owner-occupiers who are applying for our ‘Double 
Gold’ bundle (Landline, Broadband, Mobile and Energy), which has been consistently running at around 
45% since the start of our new financial year. Over time, this will lead to a progressive further rise in the 
quality of our membership base.
Absolute growth in membership numbers is currently running below our target run-rate for the year as a 
whole, and the likelihood is that our percentage organic growth will remain in mid-single digits until the 
gap between the introductory fixed-price energy deals available to new customers on the one hand, and 
the higher standard variable tariffs charged to most domestic households on the other, narrows significantly. 
We anticipate this will happen progressively over the course of the next 12 months, starting with price 
reductions from all the major energy suppliers later this summer.
In the meantime we are in the process of rolling out improvements to our training programme which we 
believe will improve the effectiveness of new Partners joining the business, and are planning a number of 
new initiatives for later in the year designed to make our unique proposition even more attractive to ‘Double 
Gold’ multi-service owner-occupiers.
Our focus remains on building our membership base to 1 million Members and beyond over the medium 
term; this would represent a UK market share of less than 4%, and seems eminently achievable in due 
course given our track record of consistent organic growth, our unique fully integrated multi-utility service 
proposition, and clearly differentiated proven route to market.
The high quality of our membership base gives us good visibility over future revenues and margins on the 
various services we provide, and we re-iterate our previous guidance that adjusted pre-tax profits for the 
current year will be between £54m and £58m. In the absence of unforeseen circumstances, we intend to 
increase the dividend by 15% to 46p per share. 
It only remains for me to thank my boardroom colleagues for their support and all our staff and Partners for 
their loyalty and hard work during the past year, and to wish each and every one of them success in the 
years to come.
Charles Wigoder
Executive Chairman
22 June 2015
