 5
Chairman’s Statement
The Group has reduced losses, increased its  
revenue potential via the acquisition and  
organic growth in TV, moved to a single  
London location and revamped the Board.
The Board is pleased to report the successful  
completion of a major restructure and refinance.  
As outlined above we have been able to convert  
approximately £7m of debt into equity and preference 
shares, raise £4.5m in new funds and complete the  
acquisition of Reef TV, which helped scale and  
improve the commerciality of our TV operations.
The Board is appreciative of our major shareholders and 
debt-holders for facilitating the restructuring and to the 
new investors who have shown confidence in the planned 
trajectory of the business.
On July 2014 we appointed Mark Wood as a  
non-executive Director and in December 2014 he  
became Chief Executive Officer. He brings a wealth of  
experience in television, digital content and publishing. 
We are delighted to welcome Luke Johnson and  
Jonathan Goodwin who joined as new non-executive 
Board members in July 2015, both of whom participated 
in the recent fund raise. They each have stellar  
reputations in the UK business community and bring not 
only a wealth of experience but a commitment to helping 
map a strategy for faster growth for the Ten Alps business. 
Furthermore, we are grateful to Bob Geldof, Tim Hoare 
and Brian Walden, who all stepped down from the Board 
during 2015, for their continued support of Ten Alps and 
we wish them well for the future.
Ten Alps is looking and acting like a new business.  
The CEO and management team have not only returned 
the business to profitability at an operational level but  
focussed it for growth in sectors of the media markets 
which look set for continued expansion. There is a  
palpable energy across the Group and a confidence that 
we will create value for investors in the periods ahead. 
Finally, the Board would once again like to thank all our 
employees for their professional and dedicated work 
across the Group.
Peter	Bertram	 Chairman
