 10
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
 »A customer-centric, 
dynamic organisation 
will be the backbone 
of our future success.«
Underlying EPS
FY15
8.9p
Profit after tax
Profit after tax of £19 million, an increase of £134 million 
(FY14: loss after tax £115 million)
£19m
SHAREHOLDER VALUE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 11
our own-brand hotels, supporting the improvement and further 
development of our differentiated hotel offering. Good progress is 
already being made on the establishment of the investment vehicle, 
recruitment of a fund management team and development of a solid 
pipeline of potential acquisition opportunities.
These strategic achievements have made us more resilient as 
a company and more able to absorb the impact of unusual or 
unexpected activity in the market. The potential “Grexit” – the 
possible exit of Greece from the Eurozone – is one example of such 
unusual activity, as endless political debates, together with currency 
fluctuations and a level of civil unrest, caused temporary uncertainty 
amongst many Continental European customers. The unexpected 
scale of the refugee crisis has also required close consideration 
and action. The all-too-often tragic scenes broadcast worldwide of 
families arriving on the beaches of some of the Greek islands and 
Turkey, and the sheer number of refugees entering Western European 
countries, have affected our customers’ choice of holiday destination 
and impacted trading, particularly in Germany. Though events such 
as these have a financial impact on the Company, we appreciate 
that there will always be external factors that influence the market 
and, therefore, our business. We are now in a position that we can 
manage and work to mitigate the impact of such events; whilst doing 
so, we have also ensured that we continue to listen to our customers. 
To support our customers who are looking to contribute to the 
relief effort providing aid to the refugees, our Group Airlines enabled 
customers travelling to some of the impacted destinations to carry 
an amount of additional luggage free of charge. 
The shocking terrorist attack in Tunisia created a very different 
challenge for us and the industry as a whole. I am extremely proud 
of the way we looked after our customers in the wake of this horrific 
event, demonstrating our core value of keeping our customers at our 
heart. We were able to react to the situation very quickly and we 
successfully repatriated 15,000 of our customers from Tunisia to their 
home countries within a matter of days. Our teams on the ground and 
across the airlines, together with those in our contact centres and 
retail stores, worked tirelessly to ensure that we took care of those 
of our customers who wanted to come home, and rebooked holidays 
for our customers who were still to travel. 
Dear Shareholder
The year behind us was one of real progress for Thomas Cook. 
Over the 12 months, we drove a number of very positive achievements 
in the execution of our strategy, including the successful transition 
of leadership of the Group to Peter Fankhauser, the launch of our 
new operating model, and the strengthening of both our business 
partnerships and our financial footing. However, at the same time 
the year was shaped by external events, which affected a number 
of important destinations for holidaymakers and the European travel 
industry as a whole. 
Taking into account these circumstances, I think it is fair to say that 
the results we are presenting to you represent a positive step on 
the transformation journey of our Company, but do not yet achieve 
the standards we set for ourselves or expect that we are capable 
of delivering. 
As part of our plan to make our capital structure more efficient, we 
signed a new £800 million financing facility in May, which provided 
a revolving credit facility, and a bonding and guarantee facility, 
maturing in May 2019. This replaced our £470 million facility, which 
would have expired in May 2017. The success of the actions taken 
over the last three years has led to improved financial performance 
across the Group, which in turn has meant that the opportunities to 
improve Thomas Cook’s liquidity and capital structure have increased. 
This was demonstrated by the strong support we received in January 
for a six-and-a-half-year, €400 million Eurobond to replace the 
2015 bond. 
In March, we announced our partnership with the Chinese investment 
group Fosun and their acquisition of 4.8% of the Company through 
a subscription to new equity. We welcomed Fosun not only as 
a new supportive shareholder, but more importantly as a key 
business partner. Since our announcement, we have established a 
joint venture in China to develop domestic, inbound and outbound 
tourism activities for the Chinese market under Thomas Cook brands. 
The joint venture will be based in the China (Shanghai) Pilot Free Trade 
Zone. We have also agreed with Fosun to establish a hotel investment 
vehicle to acquire hotel and resort properties in key destinations for 
Thomas Cook holidaymakers. This should enable us to better utilise  12
OVERVIEW
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
The hard work of our Group Airlines’ teams has been recognised 
across the industry and we are proud to have received five awards in 
the last year, including “Most Popular Airline”, awarded to Condor by 
the German Institute for Service and Quality resulting from a German 
customer survey, and “Europe’s Leading Charter Airline Winner 2015”, 
awarded to our UK Airline by the World Travel Awards and voted for by 
UK charter airline customers. I would like to thank Christoph Debus, 
our Chief Airlines and Hotels Officer, and his team for their significant 
efforts and achievements this year. 
We are currently undertaking a programme of work to ensure that 
our entire organisation, whether in a customer-facing role or one of 
our corporate offices, operates with a focus on our customer; our 
decision making at all levels will always take account of the customer 
perspective. As part of this programme of work, we appointed former 
Sainsbury’s CEO Justin King to lead a review of all of our business 
practices relating to our customers. His findings form part of our 
strategy to further transform Thomas Cook into a truly customer-
focused and customer-centric business. Furthermore, to demonstrate 
our ongoing commitment to the health, safety and welfare of our 
customers when travelling on holiday, we have established a charity 
promoting safer tourism, the Safer Tourism Foundation. 
Our vision is to be the best-loved holiday company, delighting our 
customers, our people and our shareholders. To achieve our vision 
we need each and every one of our people to perform their role 
to the best of their ability, putting our customers at the heart of 
everything they do. We are realistic in our expectations that we 
cannot control external factors, and, given the number of customers 
who holiday with us every year, there will always be challenges to 
contend with. However, by putting our customers at our heart, we 
are acknowledging the duty of care we owe to each customer who 
has chosen to travel on holiday with us, and we are demonstrating 
the amount we value the trust placed in us, to provide our customers 
with the best weeks of their year. 
» We are currently 
undertaking a 
programme of work 
to ensure that our 
entire organisation...
operates with a focus 
on our customer« FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015 13
One year ago I explained that with the appointment of Peter 
Fankhauser as our new Group CEO we would be entering the next 
phase of our transformation. Under Peter’s strong leadership, our 
focus is now to implement and execute our strategy for profitable 
growth. The Board members and I are extremely pleased with all that 
Peter has achieved this year and we look forward to working with 
him over the next year, as we continue on the transformation journey. 
The introduction of our New Operating Model (“NUMO”), together 
with a new three-year business plan, describe how we are going 
to transform Thomas Cook further, for the benefit of our customers, 
our people and our Shareholders. Peter has a highly experienced 
committed Management Team in place and is evolving horizontal 
leadership structures to ensure that across the Group the business 
delivers the same goals, tracking against the same KPIs. I would 
also like to thank Michael Healy and his team for their excellent 
work and the critical role they have played in enabling this year’s 
achievements. All of our people continue to work extremely hard and 
demonstrate their commitment to our Company on a daily basis, even 
when faced with setbacks and the frustration of our year-end results 
not reflecting the extent of their work. The Board members and I 
recognise this level of effort and we are extremely appreciative of it. 
We have a strong and diverse Board in place with a good mixture 
of different high-profile personalities, with the right motivation, 
experience and skills. Carl Symon stepped down at the end of this 
year and we thank him for his service to the Company and the 
valuable contributions he made to the Board as Senior Independent 
Director. We are in the process of recruiting a new Non-Executive 
Director to add to our high-calibre team of Directors, as they support 
the Company on its transformation journey, and help to handle and 
overcome any future challenges. More detail of the changes made to 
the Board over the last year are set out in my corporate governance 
statement on page 68. 
This year has shown that the Group is more resilient than ever 
before and that we have a clear strategy for the future, which the 
Management Team will continue to execute. We are committed to 
delivering against our targets and to exceeding the expectations 
of stakeholders. The implementation of our NUMO will allow us to 
improve the experiences of our customers even further, with a 
focus on the development of our own hotel and resorts product. 
A customer-centric, dynamic organisation will be the backbone 
of our future success and, as demonstrated by the results of our 
group-wide employee engagement survey “Every Voice”, will be 
delivered by an engaged workforce, who are proud to be a part 
of the Thomas Cook Group. 
I am particularly pleased that external as well as internal appreciation 
of Thomas Cook has increased. Indeed at the end of the fiscal year, an 
increased percentage of our customers have told us that they would 
recommend Thomas Cook as a holiday company to their family and 
friends. These internal and external views of our Company support 
our positive progress. The Board is confident that the Management 
Team, under Peter Fankhauser’s leadership, will complete this critical 
next stage of Thomas Cook’s strategy successfully, and generate 
profitable growth together with an increased loyal customer base. 
We believe that customer focus and long-term profitability go 
hand in hand and, in my fourth year as Chairman, I am extremely 
pleased that we are now entering our 175th year, and we do so 
as a profit-making company. 
FRANK MEYSMAN  
CHAIRMAN
24 November 2015  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
15
strategic 
report
TRANSFORMING FOR GROWTH
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
