 16 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Delivering improved financial results
Underlying EBIT
£310m
 
Delivering stronger margins
Underlying gross margin
22.6
%
Delivering a stronger balance sheet
Net debt
£139m
Delivering more cost-out and 
profit improvement benefits
Cumulative cost out
£510m
Delivering more operational cash flow
Cash conversion
75
%
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
PETER FANKHAUSER  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
 »Our transformation has 
entered its next stage as 
we develop Thomas Cook 
into an organisation  
that places customers  
at its heart.«   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
17 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Our mantra of placing the customer at our heart underpins every 
element of our business. As a holiday company, our aspiration is 
to provide the best possible holiday experience to our customers, 
exceeding their expectations, exciting them and being passionate 
about the most important weeks of their year. We are responsible for 
the well-being of 20 million people every year. This is a tremendous 
responsibility of which we are acutely aware.
Delivering world-class quality for our customers means we must 
maintain even tighter control over all parts of the customer journey. 
Hotels and flights are the pillars of every holiday and they are key 
to the customer experience. Therefore, we have invested more than 
£100 million to refurbish the cabins of our entire fleet of aircraft. 
State-of-the-art in-flight entertainment and a luxurious business 
class on long haul flights are already delighting our guests during 
their time on board. In addition, since FY13 we have added 21 brand 
new Airbus A321 aircraft to our fleet. For our customers, we know 
that their holiday experience begins when they board one of our 
aircraft. Having launched more than 200 own-brand hotels in just 
over two years, our priority is now to refine the customer experience, 
elevating it to the best possible quality, and driving up occupancy 
rates in these key properties.
Thomas Cook’s answer to the radical changes in the industry is our 
New Operating Model, a set of initiatives designed to improve the 
way we do business. It is all about making the best use of our assets 
and capacity, developing the holiday offering, enhancing the omni-
channel proposition and generating operating efficiencies. We will 
grow through improved quality, better products and services for 
customers, and more efficient structures operating with less costs, 
in an integrated and harmonised way.
Dear Shareholder
Let me begin with some personal remarks about the past year. It has 
been the first financial year in my new role as the CEO of Thomas 
Cook and it has been a year full of both challenges and opportunities. 
While the last few years were focused on securing the business, 
successfully finalising our turnaround and laying the foundation for 
our strategy, my focus now is to execute our strategy for profitable 
growth and fully implement the transformation process in our 
business. Now is the time that our strategy for profitable growth 
becomes reality. Our transformation has entered its next stage as 
we develop Thomas Cook into an organisation that places customers 
at its heart.
You are no doubt aware that we’ve faced some recent criticism, 
particularly in the UK, for events in which we should have provided 
a higher degree of care and support to our customers. Following the 
inquest into the tragic deaths of Bobby and Christi Shepherd whilst 
staying at a hotel booked through Thomas Cook in 2006, it became 
clear that the Company had failed to treat the children’s family 
as it should have done. In the last few months, I have worked to 
build a relationship with the family and am very grateful for their 
continued engagement, working with us to develop and implement 
new initiatives putting the customer at our heart. I gave my personal 
commitment that Thomas Cook will do the right thing in the future, 
which we began with an independent review of our customer service 
and welfare, conducted by former Sainsbury’s CEO Justin King. 
His review gave us some very helpful insights into the areas where 
we need to improve and I am committed to delivering world-class 
quality and service. 
Continuing on this journey, we have established the Safer Tourism 
Foundation, a charity which aims to improve the safety of holiday 
makers travelling abroad, with a particular focus on the dangers of 
carbon monoxide. Thomas Cook will underwrite the first £1 million 
to be raised for the Safer Tourism Foundation and we acknowledge 
the substantial donation of former CEO Harriet Green towards 
this amount.  18 STRATEGIC REPORT
The transformation of Thomas Cook will see the Company become a 
global travel group steered by horizontal functions with strong local 
market organisations that are close to the customer. We have already 
begun to establish three horizontal platforms across all markets that 
will provide the local businesses with the right product categories: 
differentiated, complementary and specialist holidays. 
The business will now focus more on our core, own-brand and 
partner hotels, which we refer to as differentiated holidays. 
We will concentrate on circa 2,500 hotels as our core product. We are 
working towards this at a Group level to ensure alignment within all 
local markets. Each local market will be able to put all its power into 
selling quality holidays at the right price to delight our customers.
In addition to this core differentiated product, we will build a totally 
flexible complementary offer of hotels, sourced automatically and 
distributed primarily via our IT systems. To compete with new 
technology-driven competitors, we need the breadth and variety 
of a wide range of products that are quality assured, but offered for 
the lowest possible total cost. 
In between these two platforms – differentiated and complementary 
– sits our specialist business for premium holidays and long haul. 
Long haul is one of our real success stories, with constant growth 
over recent years. Our airline has increased its long haul offering 
significantly and added new routes to the network.
We have made tremendous progress especially in the UK where 
our business performance has improved significantly, despite 
external events. Last winter at the beginning of our financial year, 
we re-launched our premium brand Signature, creating a single 
brand that offers the best product range across all product types 
and destinations. We’ve developed an offering that “goes the extra 
mile” through choice, flexibility, depth of product expertise and magic 
moments throughout the customer journey. This initiative is already 
paying off, with increased booking figures and higher margins.
The past year has also seen a significant strategic development 
for Thomas Cook on our journey to becoming a global travel group, 
through our new partnership with the Chinese investment group 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Fosun. A team of our employees has already moved to Shanghai, China 
to lead the launch of our joint venture developing domestic, inbound 
and outbound tourism activities for the Chinese market under 
Thomas Cook brands.
In closing, I would like to focus on our employees. I am extremely 
proud of our team and would like to thank each one of our employees 
for their continued hard work and commitment to our Company. 
This year we conducted our third full employee engagement survey 
across the Group and I am very happy to report that our overall Core 
Index score for employee engagement has increased by 4% from last 
year’s score (which also showed an increase of 4% on the previous 
year). Our Senior Management Team recognise the importance of 
employee engagement and we are each committed to continuing this 
positive trend. We will move forwards together, with the customer at 
our heart, and an awareness throughout the Group that each one of 
us must support and personally demonstrate this core value in all we 
do at Thomas Cook. 
Though we appreciate there is more to do, to deliver the value to 
our Shareholders that they are expecting of us and that we have 
the potential to achieve, the past year marks a significant positive 
milestone on our journey, as it is the first year since 2010 that we 
are able to report our results as a profit-making company after 
tax. In 2016, we celebrate the 175th anniversary of Thomas Cook’s 
first package trip, the birth of the modern travel business and 
our Company. We have a great heritage and with the customer 
at our heart, we will create a great future; a stronger Thomas 
Cook, that delights our customers, our employees and of course 
our Shareholders. 
PETER FANKHAUSER  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
24 November 2015
 »The past year has also 
seen a significant 
strategic development 
for Thomas Cook on our 
journey to becoming 
a global travel group.«
