 Dear Fellow Shareholders,
I am pleased to introduce the 
Company’s Annual Report for the year 
ended December 2015, a year of good 
progress on a number of fronts. 
Group sales grew by 6.5% to just 
under £6 billion. On a like-for-like 
basis, sales grew 3.8%. As a result, 
adjusted operating profit, excluding 
property profits, increased by 8.7% 
to £389m and adjusted earnings per 
share increased by 4.3% to 124.1p. 
Among the Group’s various businesses, 
I would highlight particularly strong 
performances from Wickes, Toolstation, 
Keyline, CCF and Benchmarx.
Most of the Group’s businesses 
continued to outperform their major 
competitors. This continues the pattern 
of recent years and attests to the 
energy, commitment and hard work by 
colleagues throughout the Group. 
2015 was the second year of 
implementing the Group’s corporate plan 
that was announced in December 2013. 
The plan focuses on innovating our 
customer propositions, offering better 
value, improved product ranges and 
more convenience for our customers; 
expanding and optimising our branch 
networks; building scale advantage 
across our supply chains, procurement 
and technology; and finally, ensuring we 
manage our portfolio carefully. We are 
increasingly devolving management 
responsibility to our businesses as we 
grow whilst streamlining our central 
functions and ensuring disciplined 
deployment of capital.
In launching our corporate plan, we 
also committed to keep the Group’s 
investors apprised of progress. During 
the year, we held two investor days to 
present our supply chain and property 
strategies in more detail. We will 
continue to keep our investors informed, 
with further events planned for 2016.
Of particular note was the rationalisation 
and re-segmentation of the branch 
networks of our City Plumbing and PTS 
businesses; a complex transformation 
of both businesses, designed to better 
serve the needs of their different 
customers. With this transformation now 
substantially complete, our plumbing and 
heating businesses are better positioned 
to compete in what is a rapidly evolving, 
yet challenging marketplace.
The Company continues to deploy 
capital expenditure in line with its 
clearly stated priorities and financial 
return objectives. No sensible corporate 
plan is carved in stone, and I am 
pleased that management has been 
flexible in executing the plan, taking 
advantage of opportunities as they 
have arisen during the year. Our 
commitment is to grow shareholder 
value consistently and for the long 
term. Flexibility around execution is key 
to achieving this aim.
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Many of my 
colleagues have 
dedicated much 
of their lives to our 
business and this 
year celebrated as 
many as 30, 40 
and even 45 years 
of service. During 
2015, the already 
successful team was 
joined by a number 
of new colleagues 
bringing skills to 
support the growth 
and development of 
the business.
12 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
Dividend
The strong performance of the Group in 2015 combined 
with the Board’s confidence that the Group’s growth strategy 
and underlying market indicators will result in sustainable 
earnings growth, has enabled the Board to propose a 15.8% 
increase in the full year dividend. 
A final dividend of 29.25p, payable on 27 May 2016 to 
shareholders on the register on 29 April 2016, will give a full 
year dividend of 44p (2014: 38p). This dividend is covered 
2.8 times by adjusted earnings per share, with dividend 
cover comfortably inside the Board’s target range 
of 2.5x to 3.25x.
Employees
As mentioned in my introduction above, the successful 
implementation of the Group’s strategy is wholly dependent 
upon the quality of the entire Travis Perkins team. Many 
of my colleagues have dedicated much of their lives to 
our business and this year celebrated as many as 30, 40 
and even 45 years of service. During 2015, the already 
successful team was joined by a number of new colleagues 
bringing skills to support the growth and development of 
the business. The Board would like to welcome all of those 
new colleagues to the Group and thank everyone who has 
contributed to what has been yet another successful year 
for the Group. 
Board of Directors
The Group now has a settled board of directors, following 
the executive changes in 2013 and the appointment of four 
new non-executive directors since 2013. Coline McConville 
joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 February 
2015, completing our line up for the near future. 
Andrew Simon retired from the Board on 31 October 2015 
following nine years of service with distinction. Among his 
many contributions was his chairmanship of the Company’s 
Stay Safe Committee, an initiative started by Andrew in 
2007 and which he chaired until his retirement, overseeing 
significant improvements in the Group’s health and safety 
awareness. The Board would like to express its thanks to 
Andrew and wish him well for the future. Andrew’s role 
as Senior Independent Director was assumed by Chris 
Rogers in November; Coline McConville succeeded Andrew 
as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Pete 
Redfern has taken over as Chairman of the Stay Safe 
Committee (both in November). Ruth Anderson continues 
to Chair our Audit Committee. 
We are fortunate in having such a strong Board that 
balances current and previous executive experience with 
skills in retailing and merchanting, alongside marketing, 
manufacturing and construction industry knowledge.
Outlook
The market in 2015, particularly in the second half of the 
year, was weaker than we expected, owing to a number 
of short-term factors. However, the core foundations and 
growth trajectory of the markets in which our businesses 
compete in remain solid. Average annual demand for new 
homes remains strong at around 225,000 per annum, 
with current supply being just over 160,000 new homes 
per annum. This shortage must be fulfilled by building new 
homes to add to the existing housing stock of 28 million 
homes. A large proportion of these homes are not in a 
satisfactory condition and require significant repair and 
maintenance as well as improvement works. Interest rates 
and inflation remain low, real wage growth has improved 
and the employment environment is largely positive 
resulting in consumer confidence at levels we have not 
seen for over a decade.
Given the investment our Group has been making I am 
confident that we will continue to outperform the markets 
we compete in, continue to grow operating profits, improve 
the return on capital employed in our businesses and 
ultimately further grow the return to our shareholders.
Robert Walker 
Chairman 
18 March 2016
13 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
