 Introduction
In December 2013 we set out a new 
strategy, which included a wide-ranging 
investment programme designed to 
deliver better customer propositions in 
each of our businesses building upon the 
scale advantages we had developed over 
the previous decade. This programme 
commenced in 2014 and accelerated 
throughout 2015. We invested close 
to £300 million in capital expenditure 
during the year, the highest amount we 
have committed during my privileged 
37 years with the Group, demonstrating 
our ambition and confidence in driving 
sustainable growth for our shareholders 
over the long term. 
Investments have been made in 
extending our reach and increasing 
convenience for our customers by 
opening more than 120 new branches, 
stores and implants throughout the UK. 
We have continued both to improve 
the branch and store experience for 
customers in many of our businesses 
with new formats and we have improved 
and extended our online presence. 
We further invested our sector leading 
supply chain capabilities with the 
completion of a heavyside range 
centre in Tilbury and the full operation 
of our Omega lightside distribution 
centre in Warrington. Improving our IT 
infrastructure to ensure we remain at the 
forefront of meeting customer demands 
remains a significant focus. 
 
To this end we invested further capital 
of £28 million in new technology and 
initiatives, although much remains to be 
done in the years ahead.
This scale of change and investment 
undoubtedly required enhancements to 
our business unit management teams 
supported by improvements in our 
planning and capital allocation approach. 
Of our 20 colleagues in the most senior 
management positions, 12 are new to 
the Group or the position in the last 30 
months. These changes have ensured 
we continue to have, what I believe to be, 
the strongest management team in 
our industry. 
 
Our Markets
The majority of our businesses 
distribute building materials to repair, 
maintain and improve existing homes 
and commercial, industrial and public 
buildings. Our markets are connected to 
the level of secondary market housing 
transactions, to consumer confidence 
and to the property investment cycle 
more generally.
CEO’S 
STATEMENT
My colleagues 
around the Group 
are undoubtedly the 
backbone of our 
organisation and 
do a tremendous 
job every day by 
serving thousands of 
customers, moving 
millions of tonnes 
of products around 
the country and 
ensuring that the 
right products are 
available, at the 
right time and at a 
competitive price.
40 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
41 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
In 2012 the Financial Conduct Authority completed a 
comprehensive review of the mortgage market, the Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). Significant legislative changes were 
implemented in April 2014 to strengthen the mortgage 
market, principally relating to how lenders assess the credit 
worthiness of borrowers. This had a short-term impact on 
the level of mortgage approvals, which lead to a reduction in 
the number of secondary market housing transactions in late 
2014 and early 2015. As a result of this change, uncertainty at 
the time of the election and what we believe were temporary 
changes in the nature of consumer spending in the late 
summer and end of 2015, there was significantly more 
volatility in our markets in 2015, including weaker demand in 
the second half of the year.
Despite predicting a more challenging year compared to 
2014, the markets our businesses compete in were tougher 
than we expected. That said, we performed well against this 
more difficult backdrop and outperformed in the majority of 
the markets our businesses compete in.
Our Performance
Against this more challenging market backdrop, I am very 
pleased with the overall performance of our businesses. 
There will inevitably be ups and downs for each of our 
businesses as we continue with our active investment 
programme to improve their customer propositions. Wickes, 
Benchmarx, CCF , Keyline and Toolstation in particular have 
performed well during the year with strong market share 
gains and good growth in operating profits.
We continued with the significant undertaking to modernise 
our core Travis Perkins business. This is a broad programme 
that impacts all of the colleagues, customers and branches in 
the business. This year we implemented electronic proof of 
delivery to capture information in a more effective manner for 
both our business and our customers. We have also extended 
the trials of new format branches which provide an overall 
better experience to our customers and commenced work to 
provide our teams with better guidance to help our customers 
derive better value from the products they buy from us.
Our Wickes transformation plan progressed at pace 
throughout the year. The team refurbished seven stores into 
our new format and opened nine new or relocated stores. 
Our price investment programme continued and we made 
substantial changes to our product ranges, including in our 
‘to order’ kitchen offer. We substantially improved our online 
experience for customers by introducing a one hour ‘click and 
collect’ service. I am most pleased, however, in the quality of 
the senior team we have assembled to develop and lead the 
transformation programme and the loyalty our store teams 
have afforded us through difficult times in recent years. 
Together we look forward to further transforming 
our business.
Our Plumbing & Heating Division substantially completed 
the re-segmentation programme we began in 2014. This 
programme has been the largest of its type in the sector and 
I am delighted with the progress that has been made, coming 
in ahead of time and within the budget set. This programme 
was designed to ensure we had the right proposition available 
to very different customers groups served by PTS and 
City Plumbing. Over 18 months the team converted more 
than 160 branches, closed 60 branches and trained almost 
1,000 former PTS colleagues in the City Plumbing business 
model. There remains much work still to do, but we are now 
operating businesses which are much more closely aligned 
to the needs of their respective customers, providing us with 
stronger platforms for growth.
Our People
My colleagues around the Group are undoubtedly the 
backbone of our organisation and do a tremendous job every 
day by serving thousands of customers, moving millions of 
tonnes of products around the country and ensuring that 
the right products are available, at the right time and at a 
competitive price. They manage to perform this service all in 
keeping with the cornerstones of how we do business and I’d 
like to thank each and every one of them. You will read in this 
report about the continuous improvements we have made in 
making our Group of businesses a more attractive place to 
work for a more diverse pool of colleagues than we had in 
the past. 
During 2015 we extended the use of social media technology 
throughout our businesses, allowing colleagues across the 
country to collaborate on customer facing themes and solve 
problems in a more productive and efficient manner. We also 
made further progress in creating a more diverse colleague 
group that is becoming more fit-for-purpose when serving 
a modern and multi-cultural UK customer base. We now 
have more women in senior positions in the Group than 
ever before and saw our first graduates from the ‘Fast Track’ 
programme we developed in 2014. We still have much work 
to do in this area, but I am pleased that the foundations we 
have put in place over the last two years will continue to 
deliver meaningful improvements for our colleagues and the 
customers they serve.
The Years Ahead
We have made some significant progress over the last two 
years, but much of the plan we initially set out remains to 
be completed during the next three years. Despite recent 
volatility in financial and energy markets, the UK continues to 
present an attractive opportunity for further investment in the 
building materials distribution sectors in which we compete.
 
John Carter
Chief Executive
18 March 2016
