 6 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP AT A GLANCE
Travis Perkins plc (the Group) is the UK’s largest product supplier to the 
building, construction, and home improvement markets. Having grown 
primarily through large acquisitions in the last decade, the Group is 
now focussed on extracting value from those acquisitions by growing  
organically though investing in more compelling customer propositions, 
optimising its network and using its scale advantage to improve returns for 
shareholders. These investments should enable the Group to outperform 
the market on a sustainable basis, increasing market share and increasing 
returns. This will ensure the Group continues with its mission to become 
the first choice distributor of building materials in the UK.
The Group has built an inclusive working environment 
where everyone can contribute because everyone is listened 
to, valued and respected. It is founded on five Cornerstones:
Keeping people safe – safety will always be at the top 
of the agenda
Upholding family values – a way of working and 
treating people
Making decent returns – creating value for 
shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers
Supporting our customers – the Group’s business is based 
on strong relationships
Being the best – setting the bar high and making 
employees and customers feel special
THE CORNERSTONES OF HOW THE GROUP DOES BUSINESS STRATEGIC REPORT
7 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
DIVISIONAL STRUCTURE
More than 28,000 individual colleagues serving trade customers and 
retail customers from over 2,000 trading outlets throughout the UK.
The Group’s 20 businesses, across over 2,000 sites, are organised 
and managed through 4 divisions.
Performance target setting is managed at a Group level with each business responsible for developing strategic plans to meet 
those ambitions. As the Group grows, operational decision making is increasingly being devolved to strengthened management 
teams in each business, allowing every business to better respond to its customers’ needs, manage its costs and capital better 
and meet the challenges of each market. The business management teams draw on a number of centrally based support 
teams including property, supply chain, IT, HR, legal and finance.
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Leading wholeseller to trade distributors
Leading distributor to domestic installers
Plumbing & Heating 
£1.4bn sales, 433 branches
General Merchanting 
£2.0bn sales, 813 branches
Market leading general merchant 
to trade customers
Kitchen distributor to trade 
Fastest growing 
national DIY retailer
Tile retailer Integrated multi-channel
trade counter
Consumer 
£1.4bn sales, 571 stores
Contracts 
£1.2bn sales, 181 branches
Fastest growing 
specialist 
distributor of 
ceilings, insulation 
and drywall
Leading specialist 
distributor of 
pipeline and 
heating solutions
Leading specialist distributor of 
civils, heavy building materials 
and drainage 8 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
GENERAL MERCHANTING
The Group’s core business supplies products for all types 
of repair, maintenance and improvement projects (“RMI”) 
as well as new residential and commercial construction. 
The customer base is largely made up of professional 
tradesmen, ranging from sole traders to national 
housebuilders whose key requirements are locally stocked 
product ranges (immediately available for collection or 
delivery), acccess to extended ranges (often delivered direct 
to site), competitive pricing, credit services and expertise in 
problem solving.
Distributor of kitchens to specialist joiners, kitchen installers, 
local authorities and national house builders. Branches: 157 
branches around the UK
PLUMBING & HEATING
Plumbing Trade Supplies and City Plumbing Supplies are 
the main brands in the Division. They supply a wide range 
of customers including domestic plumbers, independent 
plumbing merchants, large contractors and local authorities. 
As well as selling branded products, the Division has 
developed successful own brand products including a 
comprehensive range of plumbing and bathroom products 
under the iflo brand.
The Plumbing & Heating Division has four 
principal business streams. 
 
1. DOMESTIC INSTALLER BUSINESS
A leading ‘pure-play’ online supplier of plumbing and 
heating products. Distribution centre: 1 distribution centre 
which distributes around the UK
Market leading merchant for trade customers - supplying 
more than 100,000 product lines to trade professionals and 
self-builders. Branches: 656 branches around the UK
A nationwide merchant serving the locally based domestic 
plumbing and heating trades and bathroom installers. 
Branches: 344 branches around the UK
A leading distributor of domestic heating spares in the UK. 
Branches: 1 trading unit which distributes around the UK
THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES STRATEGIC REPORT
9 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
4. RENEWABLE HEATING BUSINESSES
An online ‘pure-play’ distributor of underfloor heating systems
Provider of integrated solutions for low carbon construction, 
energy efficient building and renewable energy projects
A leading wholesaler of power tools, hand tools and site 
equipment. BPT develops products and brands which are sold both 
within the Group and through independent merchants and national 
DIY chains. Location: 3 locations which distribute around the UK
3. INDEPENDENT WHOLESALERS
The combined leading distributor of heating, plumbing and 
bathroom products to the independent merchant sector  
and retailers of fires and bathrooms. Distribution centres:  
12 across the UK
A distributor of solar renewable technology 
Supplies a wide range of heating, plumbing and bathroom 
products serving private sector plumbing installation 
contracts, national house builders and the public sector. 
Branches: 102 branches around the UK and Ireland
2. CONTRACT INSTALLER BUSINESS 10 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
THE GROUP’S BUSINESSES (continued)
CONTRACTS
The customers of the three contracts businesses, Keyline, 
BSS and CCF, are typically large developers, main 
contractors and commercial sub-contractors. The products 
supplied from the three businesses the Division operates 
are generally used in large construction projects ranging 
from new road and rail infrastructure, power generation 
construction, public service infrastructure such as hospitals 
and schools, through to commercial and high rise residential 
construction and refurbishment
CONSUMER
The consumer division supplies domestic building and 
decorative materials through its store network to DIY and 
trade customers. It differentiates itself by providing the best 
value in each of its respective channels through operating 
lean and efficient business models, superior online 
propositions, high levels of availability of the brands and 
products customers demand and fit-for-purpose customer 
shopping environments
Market leading supplier of civils, heavy building materials 
and drainage solutions in the UK for trade professionals and 
specialist contractors. Branches: 80 branches around the 
UK (including Rudridge which was acquired in 2015)
Market leader in the distribution of pipeline, heating and 
mechanical services equipment in the UK. 
Branches: 61 branches around the UK
A fast growing distributor of interior building products to 
the construction industry in the UK. Branches: 40 branches 
around the UK
Fastest growing national DIY retailer, with 236 stores 
throughout the UK and the market leading online 
DIY proposition 
A rapidly growing retailer of lightside building materials 
with a current network of 224 branches. Its fully integrated 
multichannel operating model is class leading and enables 
the business to offer the lowest prices and best availability 
One of the UK’s fastest growing suppliers of ceramic tiles 
available to both retail and trade customers through 111 
stores around the UK with a rapidly expanding 
online presence  Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
STRATEGIC REPORT
11 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2015
Strategic Report Governance & Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Paul Parker – Travis Perkins, Shrewsbury
