 An encouraging start
At the beginning of 2015, the business faced some major 
challenges and we recognised there were real complexities 
that we had to deal with and that needed managing 
carefully. Having completed the comprehensive business 
review, we understood these issues and subsequently the 
new team and I developed a clear set of strategic priorities. 
We set ourselves a clear, realistic and straightforward plan. 
That plan is now being executed across the Group. I am 
pleased to report that we have made an encouraging start 
and are seeing signs of good progress.
2015 performance
We set out to stabilise business performance and to work 
towards returning the business to sustainable, profitable 
growth. The new team has made good progress on all 
fronts. 2015 was always going to be a year of transition, 
but in that context the overall business performance has 
been encouraging. 
Group revenue for 2015 was £509.9 million (2014: 
£524.3 million) which equated to a 3 per cent decline  
on an organic basis. Although headline revenues reduced 
marginally, in difficult markets we have delivered results  
in line with our plans and our cash flow performance has 
been excellent. The Group’s order book remains sound, 
although recent weakness in our shorter cycle industrial 
market has resulted in the order book for the coming year 
being slightly lower than at the same time last year.
As expected, underlying operating profit declined by 
26 per cent to £21.7 million (2014: £29.2 million). The 
reduction was in large part due to lower R&D capitalisation, 
which resulted in a £2.5 million increase in R&D expense at 
constant currency, the non-recurring £5.0 million of profit 
from large one-off orders in Industrial Sensing and Control 
and Advanced Components in 2014, and a £0.9 million 
increase in depreciation charge for capital investments 
made in prior years. There was a £1.4 million positive 
foreign exchange benefit. At constant exchange rates, 
underlying operating profit declined by 30 per cent. 
Cash flow has been a significant area of focus throughout 
the year. We delivered full year cash conversion of 136 per cent 
(2014: 3 per cent) and a free cash inflow of £5.1 million 
(2014: outflow £22.5 million). The improvement  
in cash conversion reflected tighter control of capital 
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
06
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive’s strategic review expenditure and a £4.6 million working capital inflow 
(2014: outflow £16.8 million). Net capital expenditure 
totalled £16.8 million (2014: £28.0 million) and capitalised 
development expenditure was reduced to £1.3 million 
(2014: £6.8 million), equivalent in total to 0.9 times 
underlying depreciation and amortisation (2014: 1.6 times). 
Closing net debt was £56.1 million (2014: £14.3 million) 
including the acquisition of Aero Stanrew Group Limited 
(“Aero Stanrew”); net debt to EBITDA was 1.3 times as 
reported (2014: 0.3 times), and 1.2 times including the 
pro-forma impact of Aero Stanrew.
The Operational Improvement Plan has clearly been a key 
area of focus for us in the year and we are really pleased 
with the progress made. For the Werne, Germany to 
Timisoara, Romania transfer, we originally intended to 
move 16 lines over the life of the project, with ten of those 
being transferred during 2015. In November we took the 
decision not to move four of the remaining lines as the 
expected benefits no longer justified the required level  
of spend. All twelve lines have now been moved and  
are customer qualified. The final step in the programme  
is to consolidate the footprint in Werne. The transfer of 
production from Fullerton, USA to Mexicali, Mexico was 
completed in the second half of 2015. Overall the 
Operational Improvement Plan is expected to be completed 
at a cash cost of circa £23 million, £7 million less than the 
original estimate, and full run-rate benefits of £5.0 million 
per annum are now anticipated in 2017, a year earlier than 
originally expected. 
As indicated in our November 2015 trading update,  
with our shorter-cycle industrial market facing businesses 
experiencing market weakness, our intention is to make 
footprint reductions. These plans are now well advanced 
and include relocating the last remaining production  
out of our Fullerton, USA site which will be transferred  
to Bedlington, UK. These measures will enable us to 
continue to invest in the business and future growth.
Having made significant operational progress, and with  
the balance sheet firmly under control, we felt able to  
move M&A up the agenda and in December announced 
the acquisition of Aero Stanrew for a total consideration  
of £42.2 million on a cash and debt free basis, of which 
£4.0 million was funded through the issue of new shares  
in TT Electronics to the management of Aero Stanrew  
who remain with the Group. The acquisition strengthens 
our position in growth areas in the aerospace and defence 
market, and enhances our technology and product 
capabilities. The acquisition is expected to enhance 
earnings immediately and the return on invested capital  
to exceed TT’s cost of capital in the second full year  
of ownership.
A year of important changes 
We set out our strategic plan to improve TT Electronics’ 
performance across six priorities, delivering three outcomes 
to build sustainable, profitable growth and improve value 
for our shareholders. Having developed their execution 
plans in the first half of the year, the divisional management 
teams set about implementing the strategic priorities as 
outlined in the divisional reviews on pages 30 to 37.
We are seeing promising signs from the early phase of the 
roll-out of our strategy. The action we have taken so far has 
helped to reset the business and restore our focus on our 
customers and on our shareholders, recognising that it will 
take time and concerted effort in order for us to achieve  
our potential. 
With our renewed focus on our customers, we have already 
seen some real progress with new contracts and some 
brand new customers to TT that we are very proud of. 
For example:
 – We successfully displaced an existing tier one 
manufacturer for the supply of an advanced next-
generation haptic pedal solution for a global premium 
automotive OEM. We delivered wins in China with three 
new contracts for accelerator pedals; an oil temperature 
sensor for a major Chinese transmission manufacturer; 
and a crankshaft sensor leveraging an existing product 
design. We also won a global project for a new chassis 
height sensor based again on an existing TT design,  
with initial launch in Europe and China. 
 – Across the Industrial Sensing and Control division we 
managed to largely off-set the large one-off contract 
position in 2014 through winning orders with new 
customers in specifically targeted new market segments, 
in both electronic power steering systems and in our 
optical sensing business, ensuring the division delivered 
strong underlying performance. 
 – In Advanced Components, despite suffering from some 
of the macro-economic weaknesses described elsewhere 
in this report in some of its core markets, the division 
secured a record level of new customer product positions 
for their components giving confidence in their 
competitiveness and medium term potential. 
“ In difficult markets we have 
delivered results in line with  
our plans and our cash flow 
performance has been excellent.”
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
07 The reorganisation of TT started in 2014 and was 
completed in 2015. The new four-division structure ensures 
focus on, and responsiveness to, our target markets and 
customers. Our new leaner structure also strengthens 
accountability and agility in decision making. 
The new team members have blue chip industrial 
backgrounds and strong international experience. Most 
importantly, this is a team that is used to delivering growth 
in challenging situations. Another exciting change this year 
was the arrival of Neil Carson, the former Chief Executive of 
Johnson Matthey Plc. Neil joined the Board as Chairman in 
May 2015. He has a formidable reputation as a successful 
leader. His wealth of experience and proven track record of 
building successful businesses will no doubt help TT rebuild 
and unlock its potential. I would like to thank our previous 
Chairman, Sean Watson, for his support in my transition 
into the Group and with the changes to the Executive team. 
Employee engagement
In Spring 2015, we started to roll out our new plan; 
refreshed our purpose and set our course of actions through 
the six strategic priorities under the “One TT” umbrella – 
underpinned by a new culture, the “TT Way”. This series of 
changes was launched internally as “BE TT”, which denotes 
“Build Expertise in TT”.
I believe that successful strategic execution only happens 
with strong employee engagement, especially at site level. 
This is critical to the success of our plan. As a leadership 
team we have put a lot of emphasis on communication 
and openness. Workshops and townhall communications 
were held at all of our sites to explain the strategy, address 
concerns and questions from our employees, as well as to 
ensure it was brought to life and owned locally. 
The “One TT” concept has been well received by our 
employees as they can see the potential of harnessing  
our expertise, as well as opportunities, from different parts 
of TT. There are an increasing number of examples of 
different business units or functions working together  
to help customers resolve challenges.
The TT Way
As we put in place the new strategy, it was also very 
apparent we needed to develop a new culture to change 
the way we work and behave – from top to bottom.  
T o guide us we have developed a framework called  
‘The TT Way’ – our aspired culture that is required to help 
us achieve our plan – consistently. 
One of the key dimensions of the TT Way I’d like to 
highlight here is we do the right thing. We will build TT  
on a solid foundation with high standards of ethics and 
integrity. We talk about this a lot. I am keen that TT is an 
organisation that is committed and proactive in playing  
a positive role as a good corporate citizen. We can and  
will make a positive impact for our customers and the 
communities in which we operate. 
Operational efficiency
Lean is an area very close to my heart. In January we 
established the Operations and Procurement Council  
to enable the leadership teams of different divisions  
to collaborate and to share experience, and to drive 
improvement globally. The Council launched TT’s BE Lean 
programme by training 16 Master Lean Practitioners 
(“MLPs”), our first group. These practitioners worked 
together to implement a new standard in our first pilot site 
in October and the results were remarkable given the first 
lean training session had only been held in June. The 
enthusiasm and motivation of the team was extremely 
encouraging and gave me great confidence in what this 
focus on lean will mean to our future. T o build on the 
success in 2015, in 2016 we will be training more MLPs and 
carry out pilots in more sites to embed lean practices and 
enable the sharing of best practice and experience, focused 
on constantly improving TT’s competitiveness. 
Research & development
More targeted and efficient R&D is one of our six strategic 
priorities. Without consistent and competitive R&D to 
address the new challenges in the market, we will lose our 
competitive advantage and more importantly lose the 
trust our customers have placed in us. R&D is a critical 
strategic tool and asset to support and drive our long term 
A new structure with new leadership 
Executive 
Management Board 
left to right:
Lynton Boardman, Group 
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Candy Bowles, EVP 
Corporate Development 
& Strategy
TC Chan, EVP IMS
Tim Roberts, EVP 
Industrial Sensing  
& Control
Richard Tyson, Chief 
Executive Officer
Mark Hoad, Chief 
Financial Officer
Amrei Drechsler, EVP 
Transportation  
Sensing & Control
Gareth Mycock, EVP 
Advanced Components
John Leighton-Jones, EVP 
Human Resources
Michael Robinson, EVP 
Operations & Supply 
Chain
08
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chief Executive’s strategic review continued growth. To me it is an important investment that needs to 
be protected and enhanced to secure leadership positions  
in our chosen areas of expertise.
Over the last two years we have increased our level of 
investment, changed how we manage our R&D and 
strengthened the R&D community across the divisions.
We have some great examples of new products launched  
in 2015 that target important areas for future growth.  
For example: 
 – We successfully launched our AdBlue
®
 optical fluid sensor 
which is used to reduce NOx emissions for diesel exhaust 
systems, a key area of OEM focus to address legislative 
change. Our first-mover advantage was reflected in 
securing our first customers in Korea, India and China. 
 – Our Industrial Sensing and Control division secured 
a development order from a large tier one customer 
for a new linear sensor for suspension systems. 
 – Our Advanced Components division rolled out a new 
high power current sense resistor for the industrial, 
medical and automotive markets in motor drive,  
battery monitoring and process control applications.
Growth
We have a well-defined and disciplined approach to 
acquisitions, choosing to develop organically, where 
possible, through product extension into new markets  
and gaining traction with existing customers. While we  
are making some major changes and rebuilding towards 
organic growth, we continue to explore other inorganic 
opportunities to accelerate growth in attractive markets 
where we can leverage our expertise to expand our market 
presence and enhance our offering to our customers.
Aero Stanrew acquisition
In December we acquired Aero Stanrew for a consideration 
on a cash and debt free basis of £42.2 million. 
Headquartered in Barnstaple, Devon, Aero Stanrew is a 
leader in the design and production of electromagnetic 
components and electronic systems for harsh environments 
and safety critical applications. The business is primarily 
focused on commercial aerospace and defence markets, 
with sole-source positions on key growing platforms, 
providing good visibility of future revenues. Aero Stanrew 
solves complex technical challenges in product areas and 
for a customer base which overlaps with a number of  
our businesses. 
The combination of the two businesses provides the 
opportunity to accelerate our strategy by offering a wider 
range of capability to a broader base of tier one customers 
and increasing our exposure to aerospace and defence. 
I am very pleased that the leadership team of Aero Stanrew 
have agreed to stay with the business and have taken a 
significant portion of their consideration as shares in TT 
Electronics, reflecting their commitment to and confidence  
in TT, and the opportunities we both see.
The acquisition will be reported as part of the Advanced 
Components division. It accelerates our strategy to 
return to sustainable, profitable growth and reflects 
our confidence that it is time to move on and create 
a platform for further growth. 
A fundamentally good business platform
I am repeatedly reassured that we have a good set of 
businesses with good market positions. We are in the right 
space in our markets. The markets enjoy sustainable 
demand drivers for engineered electronic components. 
The increasingly stringent regulatory requirements (such 
as the imposition of higher CO2 emission limits), and the 
demand for more efficient fuel or energy management 
by the end products produced by our customers, are all 
driving increased use of sophisticated electronics. To 
continue to offer cutting edge and versatile products to 
stay ahead of their competition, our customers – most of 
which are global leaders in their own sectors – require our 
engineers’ support to develop more reliable, and more 
resilient products for harsh environment applications.
We have excellent customer relationships in transportation, 
aerospace and defence, and industrial markets. Our 
customers have reassured me that TT has helped them 
develop and deliver some of the most exciting products. 
Our team’s deep expertise in the capabilities we offer and 
their passion is what makes us different. Knowing millions 
of our products are working reliably in some of the 
harshest environments makes me feel very proud. 
What we need to do now is to unlock our potential, as one 
global team. 
Outlook 
We have made good early progress in executing the 
strategy we set out at the start of the year to stabilise  
the business and create a platform for growth. In difficult 
markets we have delivered results in line with our 
expectations. Our cash flow performance has been 
excellent. The acquisition of Aero Stanrew represents  
an important step in our development and growth.
The Operational Improvement Plan is largely complete 
and we will now make further changes to our operational 
footprint which will enable us to continue to invest in the 
business and future growth. Although we recognise that  
we are facing a tougher macro-economic environment, 
the combination of our self-help actions and the 
contribution from Aero Stanrew mean that we are on 
track to make progress in 2016. We remain confident in 
our ability to return the business to sustainable profitable 
growth in the medium term.
Richard Tyson
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2016
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
09
