 Strategic report
2015 was a year of profitable growth for Tyman against a backdrop 
of more difficult market conditions in most of our key geographies. 
Housing markets continued to recover in the US, but at a slower 
pace than in recent years, and Canadian markets were impacted 
by a slowing economy. In the UK, markets were broadly flat across 
the year and, although certain European markets showed some 
encouraging signs, overall growth remained relatively subdued.
For 2015 we have reported revenue of £353.4 million, slightly ahead of 
2014. Despite only modest growth in the top line the Group increased 
reported underlying operating profit by 11.6 per cent to £51.4 million.
On a constant currency, like for like basis, revenue increased by 
0.4 per cent and underlying operating profit increased by 6.0 per cent. 
We demonstrated strong margin progression, with gross margins 
improving by 109 bps and underlying operating margins by 142 bps. 
Our underlying earnings per share increased by 3.4 per cent to 
19.25 pence (2014: 18.61 pence) reflecting improved profitability, 
higher interest charges and an increased underlying effective tax rate.
Return on capital employed improved by 110 bps to 12.5 per cent 
as we continue to make progress towards our medium term target 
of a ROCE of 15 per cent.
Leverage at the year end of 1.35x was 0.21x lower than 12 months 
ago and below our core year-end target range of 1.50x to 2.00x. 
Our operating cash conversion was strong at 84.9 per cent and this 
was achieved despite further investments made in the balance sheet 
during the year, including gross capital expenditure at 1.50x depreciation.
This robust financial performance demonstrates the progress that 
the Group has made over the past six years, as well as the resilience 
of the self help model that we have developed.
Operating division overview
AmesburyTruth saw broadly flat volumes in the year, but the Division 
significantly improved its profitability due to good progress on pricing 
initiatives and delivery of synergies.
2015 saw the completion of the integration of the Amesbury and Truth 
businesses in North America. Synergies realised from the combination 
since the 2013 acquisition total US$8.5 million – some 70 per cent 
ahead of our original estimate. We are making good progress with 
the first phase of the North American footprint project announced 
in March 2015 and still expect that this project will generate at least 
US$10.0 million of incremental profit for AmesburyTruth by 2020.
ERA had a more challenging year with the UK RMI market not showing 
the recovery expected in the second half of the year; however, our 
new product introductions were well received and we are starting 
to regain share in distribution. In September 2015 ERA completed 
the disposal of EWS for consideration of approximately £7.5 million.
In 201 5, end markets were more promising for Schlegel International with 
European markets, other than Russia, generally firmer across the year. The 
consolidation of European pile weatherstrip manufacture at our 
Newton Aycliffe, UK, plant will give the Division a more appropriate 
manufacturing footprint and lead to improved service levels.
It was a year of profitable growth for Tyman 
against a backdrop of more difficult market 
conditions in most of our key geographies.
Chairman’s statement
Summary
• 
Modest top line growth
• 
Strong margin progression
• 
Leverage below our core target range
• 
Strong operating cash conversion Tyman plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 07
Strategic report Financial statements Corporate governance
We have also announced the completion of two acquisitions, 
Response Electronics in ERA and Giesse in Schlegel International. 
Response will help accelerate the development of wireless alarms, 
electronic access and smart home capabilities within the Group and 
enhance our routes to market. Giesse represents our first European 
hardware acquisition, which has been one of our strategic priorities 
for some time, and is expected to strengthen the Group’s existing 
business model and underpin our growth objectives.
Investment in Tyman’s future
The progress we have made to date in strengthening the balance 
sheet, divesting non-core businesses such as EWS and improving 
our business provides a solid platform for the Group to invest for the 
delivery of our next phase of growth. Along with the realignment 
of the North American footprint announced in March 2015 and the 
changes made in the last two years to our European operations, 
we have recently announced the consolidation of our UK footprint 
to a new site located in the West Midlands. 
These changes to our footprint are significant in that they will provide 
the Divisions with the modern manufacturing, sourcing and distribution 
facilities necessary to support our future growth. Alongside these 
investments we continue to invest in new product development and 
supply chain in each of the Divisions as well as in our management 
teams, which we continue to build across all our geographies.
M&A
Targeted acquisitions have and will continue to be an important part 
of Group strategy. Our strategy remains to build a balanced portfolio 
of engineered components that we can offer to the door and window 
markets internationally. This will enable us to replicate the successful 
business model that we have in the US across other markets and 
geographies.
The announcement of the acquisition of Giesse is an important 
development in the next growth phase of the Group providing us 
with a high quality engineered hardware product offering for the 
aluminium window and door market for the first time. 
Acquisitions bring with them management challenges and elevated 
risk along with opportunities. We manage these challenges and risks 
through our clear acquisition criteria, our due diligence process and a 
commitment to the full integration of every business we acquire over 
an appropriate period. Each acquisition is discussed and reviewed by 
the Board at regular intervals during the diligence process and 
following completion.
Corporate governance
As Chairman, my principal role is to lead the Board effectively 
and to ensure that the Board sets the tone for the Group’s corporate 
governance and risk management processes. An important factor in 
achieving this is ensuring that good corporate governance procedures 
are practised throughout the Group in each of the countries that 
we operate in. 
In order to enable shareholders to understand how this is achieved 
we have provided a corporate governance statement on pages 47 to 51 
of this report. This describes how the governance structure underpins 
the delivery of the Group’s business strategy. On pages 33 to 34 we 
have also outlined the principal risks that may prevent Tyman from 
achieving its objectives and the actions that we are taking to 
mitigate these potential risks.
The Board
Our approach as a Board is for the Non-executive Directors to be 
closely engaged with the business and supportive of the Executive 
Directors and management team, whilst embracing the principles 
of transparency and open debate. 
In May, as Non-executive Directors, Kirsten English and Mark Rollins 
joined the Board. Kirsten has joined the Audit, Nominations and 
Remuneration Committees of the Board and Mark has taken on the 
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee, as well as becoming a 
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees. Both Kirsten 
and Mark bring to the Board diverse and relevant business and 
governance experience.
We have continued our practice of holding regular Board meetings in 
each of the Divisions and, during the year, visited Group sites at ERA 
in Willenhall and AmesburyTruth in Toronto. In November the Board 
attended the Group management conference hosted by ERA in London 
where we participated in a number of workshops and product 
demonstrations. Kirsten and Mark have also visited various 
Divisional sites as part of their induction programme. 
These visits and engagements allow Board members the opportunity 
to meet with a significant cross section of the Group’s Divisional 
management and employees at all levels as well to see at first 
hand the Group’s manufacturing and distribution processes.
Health and safety
Improving the general working conditions for our employees and 
ensuring that the Group operates to the highest standards of health 
and safety remains a key priority for the Board. Progress, as evidenced 
by declines in the number and nature of recorded incidents across 
the Group, has been slower than we would have hoped over the course 
of the past two years, despite considerable focus and engagement at 
all levels of the organisation. We will continue to devote the necessary 
time and resources required to improve our health and safety record.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2015 of 6.09 pence 
per share (2014: 6.00 pence per share) which, together with the interim 
dividend of 2.66 pence per share, gives a 9.4 per cent increase in the 
total dividend for the year to 8.75 pence per share (2014: 8.00 pence 
per share).
Finally, while we are justifiably proud of the products we manufacture 
and the service we give to our customers, it is our employees who 
have delivered the progress that we have made. It is their efforts that 
have made the Group more flexible and more adaptable over the 
past six years and on behalf of the Board I would like to thank them.
Jamie Pike
Non-executive Chairman
8 March 2016
Targeted acquisitions 
have and will continue 
to be an important part 
of Group strategy.”
