 Strategic report
2015 was a year of profitable growth for Tyman against a backdrop 
of more difficult market conditions in most of our key geographies. 
Despite subdued markets, a combination of pricing initiatives, 
business improvements, new product launches and synergy delivery 
again ensured that the Group generated strong profit dropthrough, 
margin management and cash conversion across the year as a whole.
2016 has started in line with our expectations across each of the 
Divisions. Although we expect that the majority of our markets will 
remain challenging, we will continue to deploy our self help strategy 
to enhance our operating efficiency and improve our cost base.
We will continue to develop and extend the Group’s product portfolio 
through a combination of internal R&D and targeted acquisitions. 
The improvements we have made to the Group over the past six years, 
combined with our strong financial position, mean that we remain 
well positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
We are pleased to have completed the acquisitions of Giesse and 
Response and, on behalf of the Board, I would like to welcome their 
respective management and employees to the Group.
Outlook
The current year has started in line with our expectations across 
each of the Divisions.
In the US, permit and start levels for single family homes strengthened 
somewhat over the second half of 2015 giving us confidence that 
2016 should see a further year of growth in the US new build market. 
Repairs and Remodelling (“R&R”) is also expected to show year on 
year improvement; however, this is expected to be at similar levels 
to those seen in 2015 rather than a return to 2014 growth rates. We 
expect that the Canadian market will continue to contract in 2016.
The subdued UK market conditions seen in 2015 are expected to 
persist into 2016 with continued growth in new build but uncertain 
growth prospects for RMI markets. ERA expects that it will be able 
to regain some market share during 2016 through growth in both 
the OEM and distribution channels.
Despite subdued markets the Group 
generated strong profit dropthrough, 
margin management and cash conversion 
across the year as a whole.
Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategy
Summary
• 
Profitable growth despite subdued markets
• 
Opportunities expected from integration of Giesse
• 
Continued deployment of self help strategy in 2016 Tyman plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 09
Strategic report Financial statements Corporate governance
In 2016 we expect that European markets will remain similar to those 
seen in 2015 with certain markets showing modest growth off a low 
base. Progress will therefore depend on successful implementation of 
self help initiatives. Our streamlined manufacturing footprint should 
enable the businesses to be more responsive to customer demand; 
however, material profit improvement in the core Schlegel sealing 
business remains dependent on European volumes recovering towards 
historic levels which, given the macroeconomic environment, we see 
little sign of coming through in 2016.
We expect continued improvement in Australasian markets in 
2016; however, Brazil and China are likely to remain subdued for 
the foreseeable future.
The integration of Giesse into Schlegel International is expected to lead 
to opportunities for cross selling of product into the respective Schlegel 
and Giesse customer bases and the increased size of the Division should 
lead to improved operational efficiency. Giesse has traded in line with 
expectations in the year to date.
Louis Eperjesi
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2016
The improvements we have 
made to the Group over the 
past six years means that 
we remain well positioned 
to take advantage of 
opportunities as they arise.” Tyman plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 10
Strategic report
Chief Executive Officer’s review and Strategy continued
We will retain our focus on 
pricing discipline and margin 
management in 2016.”
2016 priorities
Our key priorities for 2016 are a continuation of the themes we 
developed in 2015 and include:
1.
The successful integration of Giesse and Response into the T yman Group, 
along with implementation of the synergy plans we have developed.
2.
Completion of the first phase of the AmesburyTruth footprint project 
together with the construction and fit out of ERA’s new West Midlands 
facility and the exit from Schlegel International’s facility in Barcelona.
Our aim is to ensure that each Division operates from safe, modern 
and flexible facilities that are able to manage the increasing demands 
of their respective customer bases. Our footprint needs to be appropriate 
for the medium term needs of the business, taking into account 
opportunities for near shoring of those products best made or 
sourced close to the point of consumption.
3.
Continuing to encourage strong communication, consistency of 
approach and standards of excellence across each of the Divisions. 
For our end customer, wherever they are located, this should mean 
the availability of a differentiated product offering at an appropriate 
price, delivered to specification, on time and in full. 
4.
Financial objectives for each of our Divisions for the year remain 
centred on sustained margin improvement and cash generation 
along with continued growth in the Group’s average return on 
capital. We will retain our focus on pricing discipline and margin 
management in 2016.
5.
Continued investment in and improvement of the businesses, in 
particular in the areas of new product development, people, supply 
chain and capital projects with a focus on automation and lean 
manufacturing to ensure we differentiate ourselves from our 
competitors and continue to grow market share.
6.
Supplementing our organic and self help initiatives through our 
active acquisition programme, prioritising European markets where 
we currently have a niche seals range and where Giesse gives the 
Group a comprehensive European hardware offering for the first 
time. Commercial markets in North America and emerging markets 
where market position can best be obtained through acquisition also 
remain areas of interest.
Chief 
Executive 
Officer’s 
priorities
Louis Eperjesi talks about the Group’s key priorities for 2016. Tyman plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 11
Strategic report Financial statements Corporate governance
Our aims
Increasing our revenue through consistent 
market share gain and pricing discipline.
Maximising margins by eliminating 
cost and waste from processes.
Focusing on capital allocation 
and cash generation.
A
 Market share gain
We aim to secure profitable market share increases annually through 
deeper penetration of the existing customer base, the development 
of new products and winning new customers. The breadth of our 
product offering and our ability to offer customers engineered 
solutions means that in each of our markets we believe there is 
opportunity for the Group to continue to increase its market share.
B
 Pricing discipline
We target minimum gross margin thresholds for each of our 
product lines, and in pricing consider the end to end cost of 
providing the necessary product and service to our customers. 
For our ultimate customer, wherever they are located, our aim 
is to provide a differentiated product offering at an appropriate 
price, delivered to specification, on time and in full.
C
 Maximising margins
We continually scrutinise our manufacturing and sourcing processes 
to ensure that we are providing products to the customer in the most 
efficient manner. Divisions operate rolling programmes of process 
improvement engineering designed to eliminate unnecessary cost 
from our processes and reduce scrap levels.
D
 Elimination of cost and waste
Divisions closely monitor the quality of products, both within the 
production process and once products have entered the installed 
base, in order to ensure that our commitment to quality endures 
beyond the point of sale.
E
 Focus on capital allocation
We adopt a rigorous appraisal process for all items of capital 
investment in order to ensure that all investments are supported 
by a robust business case. Divisional investment plans are required 
to provide an attractive return to the Group overall, while also 
ensuring that we continue to invest in making the Group’s facilities 
safe, leading edge and attractive working environments that are 
fit for purpose for an international manufacturing organisation.
F
 Focus on cash generation
All of our business units aim to utilise working capital efficiently 
and convert profits to cash while maintaining high levels of 
customer satisfaction through industry-leading levels of order 
fulfilment. Each Division is allocated specific cash targets which 
are monitored throughout the year and flexed according to demand 
levels. Divisions are encouraged to seek out opportunities to secure 
permanent reductions in working capital.
Our strategy is to create shareholder value through 
being a leading international supplier of components 
to the door and window industry.
