 Refocusing and rebuilding
2015 was a successful year of transition for TT Electronics, 
as we began the task of refocusing and rebuilding our 
business with a view to a return to sustainable profitable 
growth. In my first year as Chairman, I have been 
delighted to see the commitment shown by all parts of 
the business to the delivery of the strategic plan first 
outlined in last year’s Annual Report. I believe that this 
has provided a solid foundation from which to unlock our 
potential and deliver improved value for our shareholders. 
One of the key highlights of 2015 was the progress made 
in delivering the Operational Improvement Plan (“OIP”), 
involving the transfer of key product lines from Werne, 
Germany to Timisoara, Romania, which will be completed 
at lower cost than originally projected. This has enabled 
the business to redeploy its financial and human resources 
to focus on the task of simplifying its global operating 
footprint. These initiatives, together with the excellent cash 
conversion achieved in year, means that the Group has now 
moved on to pursue growth opportunities in strategically 
important sectors. A good example of this is the acquisition 
of Aero Stanrew Group Limited, which was completed in 
December for a purchase price of £42.2 million (on a cash 
free debt free basis) and provides an excellent platform for 
future growth in aerospace and defence markets. 
2015 results
Considering the scale of change put in place across the 
business during 2015, and despite the mixed market 
conditions, the overall performance of the Group was 
encouraging in the past year, and the Executive team 
has delivered what it set out to achieve.
The Board is recommending maintaining the final 
dividend at 3.8 pence. This, when combined with the 
interim dividend of 1.7 pence, gives an unchanged  
total dividend of 5.5 pence per share for the full year 
(2014: 5.5 pence per share).
Neil Carson
Chairman
04
TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic Report / Chairman’s statement Strategic and operational progress
Given the business performance at the start of 2015, the 
Board and the Executive team re-examined the future 
direction of the business and launched a new strategic 
plan. This is now in place, and the foundations for 
rebuilding the business have been laid, although there 
remains a significant amount of work to complete before 
the Group will return to sustainable profitable growth.
Board changes
As announced in April last year, I took over as Chairman 
of the Group from Sean Watson immediately following the 
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May. I am indebted 
to Sean for the leadership he has shown during his seven 
year tenure on the Board, which has left the Group well 
positioned to achieve its long term growth ambitions. 
During 2015, we continued the process of embedding 
the changes to the senior management team described 
in last year’s Annual Report. Following the appointment 
of Mark Hoad as Chief Financial Officer in January 2015, 
we remain focused on further strengthening the Board and 
have embarked on a recruitment process which is likely 
to culminate in the introduction of a new Non-Executive 
Director later this year. The Executive Management Board 
has now been in place for over a year and Richard Tyson 
is responsible for ensuring that this team continues the 
process of focusing on the execution of the Group’s 
strategic priorities in the coming year.
The Board, through the Remuneration Committee, 
is committed to ensuring that the Group operates 
in accordance with best practice regarding both 
the disclosure of directors’ remuneration and the 
development of an effective executive remuneration 
strategy. The alignment between our strategic goals, 
KPIs and executive remuneration is set out in the 
Remuneration Report (see page 56 for more details).
Our people
The execution of our new strategy would not be possible 
without the hard work and dedication of our people 
across all of our divisions. In what has continued to be 
a challenging environment across our core markets, 
I am delighted with the contribution made by our staff 
throughout the Group in the development and execution 
of the growth plans and strategic initiatives introduced 
last year, particularly in the areas of operational efficiency, 
supply chain improvement and health and safety 
management. On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank all of our employees who have made a contribution 
to these work streams and our business performance 
during 2015.
Looking forward
2015 was a year of transition, but significant progress has 
been made in refocusing our business, rebuilding a stable 
platform and putting the business on a trajectory for 
sustainable, profitable growth in the medium term. Recent 
events have revealed that the more challenging macro-
economic environment first experienced during 2015 has 
intensified, as factors such as falling oil prices, uncertain 
Asian markets and a decline in the values of world stock 
markets have led to a loss in economic confidence. The 
Board believes that the actions taken in 2015, driven by 
the implementation of our new strategic plan, will help to 
meet these economic challenges head on, and allow us to 
strengthen our existing operating platform for the benefit 
of customers, investors and employees alike.
Neil Carson
Chairman
9 March 2016
“ Considering the scale of change 
during 2015, the performance  
of the Group was encouraging.”
Strategic Report Governance and Directors’ Report Financial Statements Additional Information TT Electronics plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
05
