 Chairman's statement 
Introduction 
2015 was a challenging year for Ubisense, in managing the impact of unprecedented market forces in key sectors and 
our continued transition to an enterprise solutions business. In response to reduced revenue expectations as the year 
progressed, we acted swiftly to increase focus on sales effectiveness and adjust our operating cost base to be better 
aligned to our revenues. These actions, alongside the proven performance enhancements and reduced costs we bring 
to customers, give us confidence that we can capitalise on growth opportunities whilst maintaining financial prudence. 
Reflections on 2015 
As we entered 2015, we were investing heavily in marketing activities, growing the organisation and continuing to 
invest in new markets, with the full expectation that revenue would accelerate driving the profitable growth of the 
business. 
The results for 2015 show that a combination of unforeseen external market forces, together with poor execution, led 
to a disappointing financial outcome. For the RTLS division, global economic concerns and, in particular, the damage 
done to German premium automotive suppliers, continue to resonate in the market but, encouragingly, orders continue 
to be received from these organisations even if at a lower level. For the Geospatial division, customer commitment to 
our platform and applications remains strong with new deployments achieving rapid adoption, and the enhanced 
mobile capability with the next version release is generating good levels of customer interest. 
Strategy 
The task now is to leverage our best-in-class products and ensure we see a tangible return on our investment and a 
return to profitability. We will achieve this by combining our direct sales efforts with those of our strategic partners 
such as Atlas Cop co and leveraging our expanding network of reseller partners. Having restructured the business, we 
are confident that incremental revenue can be generated without further significant expansion of the cost base, whilst 
still allowing for the right level of investment in our products. 
Board of Directors 
In June, Robert Parker stepped down as Chief Financial Officer, with Tim Gingell assuming his responsibilities as Interim 
Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
October saw Andy Hopper signal his intention to leave the business at the end of the calendar year, officially stepping 
down as Chairman and Director of the Group on 31 December 2015. I would like to thank Andy for his hard work and 
commitment during his time with the Group. 
Originally a Non-executive Director ofthe Group, I was appointed Vice Chairman in April2015 and officially took over 
from Andy as Chairman on 1 January 2016. 
Page 5 of89  Outlook 
The business went through a difficult period in 2015 and market conditions remain challenging, so we continue to be 
prudent in our expectations of a recovery in the near term. With a renewed focus on sales and developing the partner 
channel, we have created a solid platform from which to grow in a profitable way on a more appropriately-sized cost 
base. 
Whilst mindful of the challenging environment, we are well positioned to take advantage dfthe demand for our products 
and solutions in both divisions, and first quarter revenues are marginally ahead of the prior year notwithstanding the 
significantly reduced costs base. We pride ourselves on hiring and developing the best location people in the business. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our staff for their on-going dedication and commitment during the 
restructuring and to express our gratitude for the support and patience of our shareholders. 
Peter Harvcrson 
Chairman 
06 Apri12016 
Page 6 of 89 
