 Chief Executive's review 
Overview 
Overall 2015 proved to be a disappointing year as the business was hit by weaker than expected demand at the same 
time that we were investing to grow both the organisation and our geographical reach. At the start of the year, we 
anticipated growing the organisational presence and reach into a market that showed signs of material expansion. 
Last year, our strategic focus was on accelerating the growth of solutions sales with an increased proportion of software, 
whilst anticipating the decline in Geospatial revenues, particularly in Europe. The revenue growth required to offset 
this presented a significant challenge. Before the end of the first half, some delays in orders in the RTLS division from 
large German premium automotive OEMs meant we had to reset our revenue expectations for the second half of the 
year. Once it became clear that we would not be able to recover the shortfall against the first half revenue expectations 
by the end of the year, we took decisive action to re-align our costs with the revised revenue expectations. 
Our initiatives to refocus our resources on core geographies and markets and reduce our staff base are now complete. 
Our reset cost base means that we enter 2016 in a much better position to deliver organic growth of the business. 
Customer Successes 
The opportunity for Ubisense continues to be considerable. Our proven products are in use across 10 of the 12 leading 
automotive manufacturers in the world, and over 12,000 utility & telecommunications professionals are using our 
software every day. 
Both divisions of the business continued to expand their respective customer bases in the period. Wins were made with 
BMW Group, Ford, GM, John Deere, Magna Steyr, Nissan, Telus, Comporium and Nagoya Water and we extended our 
systems in our existing customer base with significant deployments in Utilities and Telecoms in North America and 
many of our global Manufacturing customers. 
We have successfully built on our initial entry into Japan, an important strategic territory for us. In Geospatial, we won 
our first notable Japanese myWorld contract with Nagoya Water and, on the RTLS side, good progress was made 
building on proof of concept deployments at both Nissan and Toyota. 
Strategic Partnerships 
The Atlas Copco relationship delivered on three opportunities in Europe, Asia and the US, validating our strategy of 
scaling the business through partner channels. Other industrial vendors have also incorporated our technology into 
their wireless tools recognising the market opportunity with location intelligence enhancement Other partners of note 
include itelligence (a NTT Data company), VLS and Noldus. 
Additionally, a partnership has been developed for the myWorld platform with ONZO (a global provider of data science­
based utility analytics solutions) which was signed in the early part of 2016. 
Page 7 of 89  Chief Executive's review (continued) 
Product Development 
We made considerable investment in the development of the product lines of both divisions in the year, recognising 
that continued investment in products is needed to support future growth. 
Dimension4, our next generation RTLS platform, was fully deployed in three major production environments. The 
feedback has been very positive, leading to a significant improvement in product performance and installation 
efficiencies. 
myWorld also continued on its development path with further integrations to legacy GIS systems from Esri and 
Intergraph, as well as enhancing the mobile capability of the solution which is expected to deliver some key contract 
wins in 2016. 
Summary 
We believe that with the business having a renewed focus on the two divisions and their respective product lines, there 
is a considerable opportunity for us to both win new customers and provide additional solutions for our existing 
customers. We are, as ever, very grateful for the continued support of our stakeholders, and are committed to driving 
value for them in 2016 and beyond. 
Richard Green 
Chief Executive Officer 
06 April2016 
Page 8 of89  Strategic Report: Financial Review 
Revenue 
During the year the Group re-organised into two divisions, RTLS and Geospatial, recognising the separate solutions and 
services and targeting distinct sets of customers. The Group's strategy is outlined further in the Strategic Report. Whilst 
we're organised as two separate divisions supported by a central corporate team, the revenue streams are best 
understood as follows: 
Both divisions sell solutions whereby revenues are those driven from the Ubisense product suites (RTLS -
Smart Factory; Geospatial- myWorld), technical expertise and reseller arrangements. A solution sale will 
include a mixture of application software (licences in perpetuity and subscription based), installation and 
commissioning services, hardware (for RTLS) and maintenance and support. Margins in any given period 
will vary depending upon the mix and phase of the given set of solutions being delivered. The Group sees this 
revenue stream as key to driving the long term growth and profitability of the business and there is a strategic 
shift towards this higher margin revenue stream. 
The Geospatial division also generates services revenues which are those not involving the Ubisense product 
suites as defined above. These revenues are typically multi-year or annually renewed managed services 
contracts, consultancy and training. The Group generally has good visibility on future revenue from these 
services contracts, and drives customer loyalty in addition to providing a customer base into which it can sell 
its solutions. 
The majority of our revenues relate to a small number oflarge deals, the timing of which is not solely within our control 
and each can carry a significant impact on our results in any single reporting period. 
Total revenues fell37.3o/o to £22.0 million (2014: £35.1 million). Within total revenues, the RTLS division's revenue fell 
by 21.0% to £6.4 million (2014: £8.1 million) as a result of the commercial challenges suffered by the German 
automotive OEMs. Geospatial revenue fell by 42.6% to £15.5 million (2014: £27.0 million) primarily due to the 
reduction in low margin Geospatial services contracts in Europe. 
Recurring revenues declined by 30.8% to £6.8 million (2014: £9.8 million) or 31.0% of total revenues (2014: 28.1 %). 
£2.7 million of this was maintenance and support which decreased by 36.9% (2014: £4.2 million) and represents 12.1 o/o 
of total revenues (2014: 12.0%). 
As a global business with activities focussed in Europe, North America and Asia Pacific, the reported results are subject 
to exchange rate volatility. During the period the GBP has weakened against the US Dollar, but strengthened against the 
Euro and Japanese Yen; currencies in which the Group derives a significant proportion of its revenues. If currency 
exchange rates had remained constant in 2015 compared to 2014, the Board estimates that Group reported revenues 
would have been £0.3 million higher at £22.2 million and the adjusted EBITDA loss £0.2m larger. 
To mitigate currency effects, the Group's policy is to maintain natural hedges where possible by matching foreign 
currency revenues and expenditure. The Board regularly reviews the forecast currency requirements and, at this stage, 
does not consider external hedging arrangements for profit and loss items to be appropriate for the Group. 
Orders 
2015 saw a number of major new contract awards and extensions to existing contracts resulting in new orders for the 
period of £19.2 million (2014: £31.6 million). £5.1 million of this related to RTLS and £14.1 million to Geospatial. 
The order book as at 31 December 2015 stood at £9.6 million (2014: £12.4 million), a 22.6% decrease from 2014. This 
reflects the Group's strategy to focus on sales of solutions in both divisions, which provides a shorter lead time between 
order and revenue generation than Geospatial services, which in 2014 was significantly made up of multi-year contracts 
at lower margin. 
Page 9 of89  Strategic Report: Financial Review (continued) 
Gross margin 
The gross margin fell from 39.9% in 2014 to 35.0% in 2015. This was as a result of timing of new contracts and the 
revenue mix between sales of new solution contracts, implementation of installation projects and scale of Geospatial 
services. 
Operating expenses 
Operating expenses increased by £6.1 million (32.8%) to £24.7 million (2014: £18.6 million). 
Operating expenses includes sales, marketing, product marketing, product development, administration, depreciation 
& amortisation and foreign exchange and were increased in the first half of 2015 with an increase in marketing and 
headcount costs to match revenue expectations. Once it became clear that the expected revenue increase would not 
arise then the Group initiated a restructuring and streamlining of the organisation to reduce costs going forward. 
The re-organisation program included reverting to two divisions, removing administration overheads, reducing 
marketing costs and headcount, disposal of non-core operations in South Korea, Singapore and the Philippines, and 
reducing certain business development activities, incurring non-recurring expenditure of £4.0 million split between 
cost saving £3.2 million (2014: £0.5 million) and disposal of non-core operations £0.8 million including a specific 
debtor provision, delivering £5.8 million of annualised cost reductions. 
In total, the Group incurred non-recurring expenditure mainly relating to the reorganisation program of £4.1 million 
(2014: £1.1 million). Additionally, a provision for impairment of goodwill was made for £4.0 million recognising the 
challenging trading period that the Group had during 2015. Acquired intangible assets relating to Services revenues 
were not impaired during the year (2014: £1.3 million). 
Gross expenditure on product development was £3.1 million (2014: £3.9 million) reflecting the continuing investment 
in our flagship Smart Factory and myWorld products. Capitalised product development costs at £2.5 million (2014: 
£3.0 million) represented 81% (2014: 75%) of gross development spend. Amortisation of the capitalised development 
costs remained at £2.6 million (2014: £2.6 million) as a result of significant investment in product development in 
recent years. 
EBITDA and operating profit 
Group Adjusted EBITDA for the period was a loss of £5.2 million (2014: £1.8 million profit). To provide a better ~uide 
to underlying business performance, Adjusted EBITDA excludes non-recurring items along with depreciation, 
amortisation, interest and tax from the measure of profit. 
Both the operating loss of £17.0 million (2014: £4.6 million) and the loss before tax of £17.3 million (2014: £4.8 million) 
includes amortisation/impairment charges of £7.2 million (2014: £5.0 million), depreciation charges of £0.4 million 
(2014: £0.4 million) and the non-recurring items noted above of £4.1 million (2014: £1.1 million). 
Page 10 of89  Strategic Report: Financial Review (continued) 
Interest and tax 
Net interest payable for the period was £0.3 million (2014: £0.2 million) as a result of drawing down our HSBC and 
Mizuho bank loans. 
The Group has a net tax credit of £0.6 million (2014: £0.7 million expense) as a result of cash received of £0.5 million 
under the UK R&D tax credit regime and £0.1 million of non-cash deferred tax on capitalised development costs and 
acquired intangible assets. Management's best estimate of the effective current tax rate is nil due to the availability of 
prior years' losses. The Group has substantial tax losses carried forward but does not currently recognise a deferred 
tax asset in respect of these losses. 
EPS and dividend 
Adjusted diluted loss per share was 25.2 pence (2014: 3.5 pence loss). Reported basic and diluted loss per share was 
52.3 pence (2014: 16.7 pence). No dividend has been declared. 
Balance sheet, cash and cash flow 
The Group has a balance sheet with net assets at 31 December 2015 of £12.0 million (31 December 2014:£18.8 million). 
In May 2015, the business completed a share placing raising gross proceeds of £10.0 million with the placement of 
11,111,112 new ordinary shares at a price of £0.90 per share from existing and new shareholders. The net proceeds 
from the placing were used by the Group to repay the £2 million HSBC acquisition loan, support the development of the 
business and to enable a restructuring to occur. 
The Group has a three year working capital facility of £8.0 million agreed with HSBC in May 2015. £4.5 million of this 
facility was drawn as at 31 December 2015 (2014: £4.0 million). The Mizuho Bank facility was increased to 200 million 
Japanese Yen in H2 2014 and JPY 200 million was drawn at 31 December 2015 (2014: JPY 200 million). This facility was 
fully repaid on 31 March 2016. 
In October 2014, the Group agreed an additional £2.0 million four-year term loan with HSBC to provide funds for future 
acquisitions. This facility was fully repaid in 2015. 
Page 11 of89  Strategic Report: Financial Review (continued) 
Cash and cash equivalents held in the balance sheet at 31 December 2015 was £5.4 million (31 December 2014: £3.7 
million). The movement in the cash position during the year is summarised below: 
2015 
£m 
Loss before tax (17.3) 
Depreciation and amortisation charges 7.7 
Other non-cash expenses 0.3 
Operating cash inflow before working capital movement (9.3) 
Working capital inflows 5.3 
Operating cash flows before capital expenditure (4.0) 
Capital expenditure on product development and property, plant & equipment (2.8) 
Net interest and tax received 0.3 
Cash outflow from trading activities (6.5) 
With bank loans outstanding of £5.6 million, net debt at 31 December 2015 was £0.2 million (31 December 2014: £3.2 
million net debt). The movement in the net debt position is summarised below: 
20'15 
£m 
Net debt at 1 January 2015 (3.2) 
Cash outflow from trading activities (6.5) 
Share placing to institutional investors - net 9.5 
Net debt at 31 December 2015 (0.2) 
Subsequent to the period end the further cash outflow related to restructuring costs together with first quarter losses 
and working capital movements have led to a net debt position of £2.4m at 31 March 2016. 
Page 12 of89  Strategic Report: Financial Review (continued) 
Capital structure 
The issued share capital at 31 December 2015 was 36,620,247 (December 2014: 25,062,842) ordinary shares of £0.02 
each. The increase of 11,557,405 shares relates to 11,111,112 shares issued in the May 2015 placing and 446,293 share 
option exercises by employees. The total number of unexercised share options at 31 December 2015 was 1,486,731. 
Page 13 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review 
Strategy and business model 
Our vision is to be the most widely adopted location intelligence software platform in our target markets - second to 
none. 
We help unlock previously inaccessible intelligence and insight to empower our customers to realise dramatic benefits 
in diverse application areas including vehicle manufacturing, network operations, field operations and asset 
management. Ubisense Enterprise Location Intelligence solutions are used by a number of blue chip customers across 
the world, such as Toyota, VW, Airbus, BMW, Telus, NiSource, Cablevision and Exelon. 
Ubisense is headquartered in Cambridge, UK and has offices in the USA, Germany and Japan. 
Strategy 
The opportunity for Ubisense continues to be large. As a market-leading provider of location intelligence platform 
solutions to some of the world's leading blue chip companies, with proven success and established products in two 
distinct and growing divisions, the foundations are now in place to enable the Company to scale through partners. 
Following what has been a year of considerable challenge for the Group, the Board's focus in the coming year is on 
returning to profitability through improving sales effectiveness in both divisions across key territories and verticals 
combined with a prudent approach to managing operating costs. 
One consequence of our strategy of focusing on higher margin revenue streams driven from Ubisense-owned IP and 
exiting from specific lower margin business has been an impairment to goodwill of £4.0m (2014: £1.2m). 
Business Model- How we add value 
Industry leading technology 
Ubisense has already established very close commercial relationships with blue-chip customers in end markets, 
partnering with some of the world's most recognised and respected brands. 
At the centre of this success has been the development of flexible and highly configurable software platform 
technologies which (whilst in the development phase) led to the identification of critical commercial applications in 
automotive manufacturing, telecom and utilities where we have been extremely successful in using our first-mover IP 
advantage to build the market by creating and delivering new classes of value added services, which are now fully 
proven in the market. 
Addressable market opportunities 
The enterprise acceptance of our solutions has also accelerated allowing consumerisation of maps led by Google, the 
proliferation of smart devices, the growth in cloud technologies, Industry 4.0 and the modern device-to-device 
networking referred to as "Internet of Things". Ubisense's software products and services capability benefit from these 
trends, enabling enterprises to deliver significant improvements in quality, efficiency and cost savings. 
Blue-chip customer base 
In growing these capabilities we have worked with some of the world's leading companies to address some of the most 
difficult and pressing business issues for the customer, thereby giving us a tremendous track record in delivery. The 
opportunity is to now build on this experience and growing market demand to expand the platform technologies and 
the range of applications that can be supported. 
Alongside this, the opportunity to deliver across new vertical markets is significant. We have already identified and had 
success across not only automotive manufacturing, telecoms and utilities, but are now gaining traction and increasing 
sales success in delivering applications in healthcare, mass transit, logistics and entertainment where the flexibility, 
reliability and usability of the platforms have been a key determinant of success. 
Page 14 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
Channel Scalability 
The success and strong customer traction so far has been established with a direct sales channel working alongside a 
growing and increasingly successful set of sales solution partners. The opportunity now is to expand the reseller 
channel to grow our vertical and geographical market presence, taking advantage of in-depth market knowledge, 
geographical coverage and considerably lower cost of sale that the development of the indirect channel would bring. 
Business development 
The Group's products are becoming generally accepted across its chosen industries and Ubisense, with its partners, is 
increasingly able to penetrate the target markets to deliver value-added applications that address the needs of verticals. 
Our strategic acquisition in Japan has delivered early wins for the RTLS division in global OEMs through partners such 
as Meiji Denki, further validating our approach in the market Furthermore, the adoption ofmyWorld by Nagoya Water 
endorses its utility for the water industry in Japan. 
The Group continues to invest in product development to deliver leading edge location platforms upon which to build 
best in class applications. 
Key performance indicators 
The primary financial key performance indicator for the Group, which are reported monthly, are as follows; 
• Adjusted EBITDA 
Adjusted EBITDA excludes amortisation, depreciation and non-recurring items and is reported as it reflects 
the performance of the Group. Adjusted EBITDA for the year was £5.2 million loss (2014: £1.8 million profit). 
• Revenue and contribution by division 
The revenue and contribution in each division is different with the stage of completion of individual contracts 
together with the mix of Geospatial services affecting divisional revenue, gross margin and contribution 
results. Segmental results are outlined in note 5.1 of the consolidated financial statements. 
• Cash and working capital 
The Group closely monitors the cash balances and working capital movements. The closing cash balance for 
the Group was £5.4 million (2014: £3.7 million) and net debt was £0.2 million (2014: £3.2 million net debt). 
The movement in the cash position is explained in detail in the Financial Review starting on page 9. 
• Order backlog 
Order backlog provides the Group visibility over future revenues. At 31 December 2015, the order backlog 
was £9.6 million (2014: £12.4 million). This decrease reflects the Group's strategy of focussing on solutions 
revenues which attract shorter lead times between order and revenue generation than Geospatial services. 
Page 15 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
Non-financial key performance indicators for the Group include: 
• Quantity and quality of!ead generation, pipeline and conversions to deals in the sales pipeline 
• Project duration including installation service days 
• Our reaction and solution times to customer requests 
Following the reorganisation into two divisions in the middle of the year, the Board regularly reviews the KPis in respect 
of changes within periods and changes between reporting periods. The Board believes that the Group has made steady 
progress against the KPis, particularly in terms of driving the business towards positive Adjusted EBITDA and improved 
cash flow. 
Financial instruments 
Information on both the Group's financial risk management objectives and the Group's policies on exposure to relevant 
risks in respect of financial instruments are set out in note 26 of the consolidated financial statements. 
Principal risks and uncertainties 
The Group faces competitive and strategic risks that are inherent in a rapidly growing emerging market. The Board and 
the Executive Management Team review strategy and risks to the business regularly. Where possible, processes are in 
place to monitor and mitigate the identified risks. 
The key business risks affecting the Group are set out below: 
Technological risks 
The Group operates in an industry where competitive advantage is heavily dependent on technology. It is possible that 
technological development may reduce the importance of the Group's function in the market or render the patents on 
which it relies redundant. For instance, the Group's Enterprise location systems rely on ultra-wideband radio signals to 
operate. There is no guarantee that technological advances will not render systems based on ultra-wideband radio 
obsolete. 
In order to mitigate this risk, Ubisense invests in a range of research and development activities to maintain its 
competitive advantage and participates in industry and research forums in order to keep abreast of technological 
advances. The Group spent £3.1m in its R&D programmes in the year (2014: £3.9 million) of which £2.5 million (2014: 
£3.0 million) was capitalised. 
Growth management 
The Directors believe that further expansion, either organic or via acquisition, will be required in the future to capitalise 
on the anticipated increase in demand for the Group's solutions. The Group's future success will depend, in part, on its 
ability to manage this anticipated expansion across the business and if the Group is unable to manage its expansion 
effectively, its business and financial results could suffer. In order to mitigate this risk, the Group continues to develop 
its systems and processes that can scale with the business whilst maintaining good financial management. 
Page 16 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
Staff recruitment and retention 
The contribution made by Ubisense's highly skilled and experienced staff is vital to the Group's success. As the Group 
grows, it is important to recruit and retain staff. 
The Group has in place appropriate incentive structures to attract and retain the calibre of employees necessary to 
ensure the efficient development and management of the Group. 
Reliance on third parties, induding manufacturers 
The Group relies on certain key third party equipment manufacturers in the completion of its products, and therefore 
does not always have complete control over the supply of the equipment and materials it requires to comply with its 
obligations under customer contracts. To the extent that the Group cannot acquire equipment or materials according 
to its plans and budgets, its ability to complete its work for its customers within the timetable laid down by the contract 
or at a profit may be impaired. If a manufacturer is unable to deliver the products for any reason, the Group may be 
required to purchase such equipment or materials from another source at a higher price. The resulting additional costs 
may be substantial and the Group may be in breach of its contracts with customers, which may result in a financial loss 
on a particular contract or a loss of business. In addition, any resulting failure to fulfil contracts with customers and 
other business partners may have an adverse effect on the Group's future profitability and reputation. 
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group closely manages and reviews its relationship with key suppliers on a regular 
basis. 
Dependence on key customers 
The Group has a concentrated customer base, many of which are substantially larger enterprises than the Group. As 
such, the purchasing power of the Group's customers is often significant, which may impact the ability of the Group to 
negotiate terms which are favourable to it in contracts. The Group is reliant on significant projects with its key 
customers to deliver its projected financial results. Changes to the timing and/or terms of significant projects, to the 
investment decisions of key customers or failure by the Group to retain key customers may have a significant adverse 
effect on the Group's business and financial results. In the financial year to 31 December 2015 the Group's ten largest 
customers accounted for 41% of the Group's revenue (2014: 47%), of which one customer accounted for just under 6% 
(2014: 13%). The loss of a major customer could result in a decrease in Group revenues, margins and profitability. 
In order to mitigate this risk, the Group continues to invest in the key customer relationships that it has successfully 
retained over many years, whilst also maintaining a strategy to extend and diversify its customer base. 
Contracts 
Some of the Group's commercial contracts include terms where revenues and/or invoicing are related to customer 
acceptance. Other contracts contain terms whereby the timing of cash collections is contingent on the customer re­
selling our products to end users. The Group's exposure under such contracts is limited and reviewed regularly by the 
Board. 
A significant proportion of the Group's revenue is derived from a small number of large deals, the timing of which is not 
within the control of the Group. Such a profile makes forecasting difficult and changes against expectations have had, 
and may continue to have, a significant impact on the group's results, particularly given the Group's significant level of 
operational gearing. To mitigate this risk, the Group's management maintains regular detailed reviews of the 
opportunity pipeline including critical stages to complete the larger deals taking judgement on the risks involved. The 
status of key deals in the current period is reported on at Board meetings. 
Page 17 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
Credit 
The main credit risk is attributable to trade receivables owed by customers. As the majority ofthe Group's customers 
are very large, blue chip utilities, telecoms and manufacturing companies, the risk of non-payment tends to be less of a 
traditional credit nature and more related to customer satisfaction. 
Credit exposure by customer is reviewed regularly by the Executive Management Team and the main Board with 
provision made for doubtful receivables when there are circumstances which, based on experience, are evidence of a 
likely reduction in the recoverability of the receivable. 
Bank covenants 
In May 2015 the Group extended the 3 year working capital bank loan facility to £8.0 million (2014: £5.0 million) with 
HSBC Bank pic repayable in 2018, and as at 31 December 2015 the outstanding balance was £4.5 million (2014: £4.0 
million). 
Following the fund raise in May 2015, the £2.0 million acquisition loan with HSBC Bank pic that existed as at 31 
December 2014 was repaid. 
The Group is required to meet certain financial criteria agreed as covenants for the bank loan as laid out in note 18 to 
the Financial Statements. The financial measures are regularly reviewed against covenant requirements to ensure the 
Group's obligations can be met. 
The Group notified HSBC of a breach of the covenants relating to adjusted EBITDA as at 31 December 2015 and as at 31 
March 2 016, against which HSBC provided Reservation of Rights letters indicating that they do not intend to take further 
action. 
With a covenant test based on a rolling 12 month adjusted EBITDA calculation, the Group anticipates further covenant 
breaches in the next 12 months until the full effect of the restructuring actions taken in 2015 are delivered and the 
disappointing results of 2015 no longer have an impact on the calculation. The Group is engaged in constructive 
discussions with HSBC on a multi-year repayment loan with business appropriate covenants as a replacement of this 
facility. 
Intellectual property 
The Group has a number of trademarks registered, and is pursuing registration of a number of trademarks, in the major 
territories in which it operates. The Group also has a patent portfolio comprising a number of patents filed in territories 
worldwide. Should a third party successfully demonstrate priority over any of these rights, it could inhibit the Group, 
or the Group's customers, from selling products in certain territories. 
Any failure to protect the Group's intellectual property may result in another party copying or otherwise obtaining and 
using its proprietary technology without authorisation. There may not be adequate protection for the intellectual 
property in every country in which the Group's products are made available and policing unauthorised use of 
proprietary information is difficult and expensive. Due to the Group's size and limited cash resources, it may not be able 
to detect and prevent infringement of its intellectual property. 
In addition, some of the Group's patents are licensed from a third party. The terms of that licence are on relatively 
standard commercial terms. However, there can be no guarantee that such third party will adequately maintain such 
patents and therefore the protection and benefit afforded to the Company by such patents cannot be guaranteed. 
Page 18 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
The steps which the Group has taken to protect its intellectual property may be inadequate to prevent the 
misappropriation of its proprietary technology. Any misappropriation of the Group's intellectual property could have 
an adverse impact on the Group's business and its operating results. Furthermore, the Group may need to take legal 
action to enforce its intellectual property, to protect trade secrets or to determine the validity or scope of the 
proprietary rights of others. Litigation relating to the Group's intellectual property, whether instigated by the Group to 
protect its rights or arising out of alleged infringement of third party rights, may result in substantial costs and the 
diversion of resources and management attention and there can be no guarantees as to the outcome of any such 
litigation. 
Employee involvement 
The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the best staff regardless of gender, race, religion, sexual orientation, age 
or disability. To that end it is committed to offering equal employment opportunities. 
The Group provides its employees systematically with information on matters of concern to them and regularly consults 
its staff, or their representatives, for views on matters affecting them. 
The Group encourages employee involvement in the Group's performance by periodically granting share options and 
Group performance-related variable compensation, and ensures that employees are fully aware of financial and 
economic factors affecting the performance of the Group. 
Employee policies 
The Group is committed to following the applicable employment laws in each territory in which it operates. The Group 
is committed to ensuring that disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for 
vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities. In addition to complying with legislative requirements, 
procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated and that their training and career development needs are 
carefully managed. For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, every effort is made, 
whether through retraining or redeployment, to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group. 
Health and safety environment 
The Group is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for all staff. To that end it provides 
appropriate training and supervision and complies with all applicable regulatory requirements. 
The Group seeks wherever possible to minimise its impact on the environment for the benefit of its staff and the public 
at large. The Group is committed to complying with environmental regulations in particular WEEE and encourages and 
supports staff in waste recycling within its offices. 
Digital infrastructure and cybersecurity 
Breaches of the Group's digital security, through cyber attacks or otherwise, or failure of the Group's digital 
infrastructure, could seriously disrupt operations and result in the loss or misuse of data or sensitive information, 
legal or regulatory breaches and potentially legal liability. These could result in significant costs or have reputational 
consequences. 
Following a review of the resilience and disaster recovery capability of the Group's critical systems and exchanges in 
2015, we have invested resources in enhancing site resilience and defences, improving network monitoring and 
reviewing the incident response processes to mitigate the impact of a security breach. 
Page 19 of89  Strategic Report: Business Review (continued) 
Review of investment in, and balances with, subsidiaries 
An impairment review was undertaken of the standalone Company's balance sheet, and in particular, it's investments 
in, and balances with, subsidiaries, noting the results delivered in 2015 and the outlook to future periods. Following 
this review, an impairment charge was made in the Company's books. 
Approved by the Board of Directors 
And signed on behalf of the Board 
Tim Gingell 
Interim Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
06 April2016 
Ubisense Group pic 
Registered number: 05589712 
Page 20 of89  Strategic Report: Board of Directors 
Peter Harverson, Chairman 
Peter has held a number of senior international sales and marketing roles in the IT industry. These included Regional 
Director, Intel Corporation and Vice President Europe, Cadence Design Systems. In 1995 he joined Sun Microsystems 
where he was responsible for the development of the company's European Corporate Accounts programme. 
Subsequently he became Director of Services Sales- EMEA with a charter to develop new areas of business, including 
professional services. Peter retired from Sun Microsystems in December 2005. Most recently he was Non-Executive 
Chairman of Aspex Semiconductors Limited, sold to Ericsson AB in July 2012. Currently, Peter is a Non-Executive 
Director of Brady pic, CRFS Limited, and Chairman of eo Semi Limited. Peter is also an advisor to Cambridge IP Limited. 
Richard Green, Chief Executive Officer 
Richard initially trained as a mechanical engineer and has over 25 years' of experience in the software industry. 
Having established Smallworld as one of the leading geographic information system companies serving utility and 
telecoms companies in Europe and the US, the company subsequently listed on NASDAQ in 1996 and was acquired by 
GE in 2000 for $214 million. Richard was Ernst & Young UK's Science and Technology Entrepreneur of the Year in 2010. 
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Mechanical Engineers. He is also an Entrepreneur in Residence at the Cambridge 
Judge Business School. 
Dr. Robert Sansom, Non Executive Director 
An active angel investor and mentor to start-ups, Robert is founder of the Cambridge Angels, a group of seasoned 
technology and bio-technology entrepreneurs who invest in and mentor technology start-ups in the Cambridge area. 
Previously, Robert was co-founder, CTO and Director of FORE Systems, Inc., a leading provider of networking 
equipment. FORE was listed on NASDAQ in 1994 and subsequently acquired by Marconi for $4.5 billion in 1999. 
Additionally, Robert served as the Chief Technology Officer at Marconi until 2000. Robert is a member of the Board of 
Directors of Cambridge Communications Systems Limited, CRFS Limited, Featurespace Ltd and Netronome Systems, 
Inc. He was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering in 2010 and is a trustee ofCamfed. 
Paul Taylor, Non Executive Director 
Paul is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. 
Paul joined AVEVA Group Pic in 1989 and was heavily involved in the flotation process and was responsible for UK 
accounting and for the development of AVEVA's overseas subsidiaries including adherence to group standards. Between 
1998 and 2001, Paul was also UK Director of Human Resources and was appointed to the position of Finance Director 
and Company Secretary of AVEVA Group pic on 1 March 2001. Before joining AVEVA, Paul trained within the 
accountancy profession before moving to Philips Telecommunications (UK) where he was responsible for the 
management accounts of its Public Sectors division. Paul was a recipient of the FTSE250 Finance Director of the Year 
award and is also a Non- Executive Director of Escher Group Holdings pic, Digital Barriers pic and KBC Advanced 
Technologies pic. 
Page 21 of89  Strategic Report: Board of Directors (continued) 
Ian Kershaw, Non Executive Director 
Ian has over 30 years' experience in the automotive, manufacturing and power industries. He has global responsibility 
for both transaction support and operational performance improvement within Ricardo's strategic consulting 
division. Ian has held management positions with Caterpillar, Rolls-Royce & Bentley Motor Cars and Arthur D. Little. 
Tim Gingell, Interim Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
Tim has over 25 years of commercial and financial experience across software, wireless and telecoms industries. Tim 
qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte in London and most recently was CFO or Director for a number of 
IBM's acquired companies having joined IBM when they acquired i2 from Silver Lake Sumeru. Prior to that Tim led the 
finance team at the venture capital backed company The Cloud Networks, and previously had spent 10 years at MFS I 
Worldcom in commercial roles. 
Page 22 of89  Strategic Report: Directors' Report 
The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited financial statements for 
the year to 31 December 2015. 
Incorporation and constitution 
Ubisense Group pic is domiciled in England and incorporated in England and Wales under Company Number 05589712. 
Ubisense Group pic's Articles of Association are available on the Group's website at www.ubisense.net. 
Capital structure 
The Company has one class of ordinary share of two pence each which carries no right to fixed income. Each share 
carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company. 
Details of the share capital of the Company, including shares issued during the year, can be found in note 20 of the 
consolidated financial statements. 
Substantial shareholdings 
On 06 Apri12016, the Company had been notified of the following significant interests in its ordinary share capital: 
Partners 
Threadneedle Investments 
Robert Sansom 
NFU Mutual Insurance Society Ltd 
Ruffer LLP 
Richard Green* 
Living Bridge 
Charles Stanley 
Unicorn Asset Management 
% of issued share 
capital 
23.01 
11.54% 
8.15% 
6.38% 
5.28% 
5.04% 
3.91% 
3.64% 
3.29% 
*Includes 115,617 (2014: 115,617) shares held by the RT Green Children's Trust of which Richard Green is a trustee. 
Directors 
The Directors serving at 31 December 2015 were as follows: 
Richard Green 
Peter Harverson 
Ian Kershaw 
Robert Sansom 
Paul Taylor 
Page 23 of89  Strategic Report: Directors' Report (continued) 
Board Changes 
On 29 June 2015, Robert Parker resigned his position as Chief Financial Officer and left the company. 
On 21 July 2015 Tim Gingell, having joined the Group in February 2015, was appointed as Company Secretary and is 
Interim Chief Financial Officer whilst the Group reviews its options for a permanent replacement 
On 9 October 2015, Andrew Hopper notified the Board of his intention to resign both as Chairman and Non-Executive 
Director after almost 10 years of service with Ubisense effective from 31 December 2015. 
Directors' interests - shares 
Directors' interests in the ordinary shares of Ubisense Group pic at 31 December 2015 were as follows: 
2014 
Number 
Peter Harverson 65,161 
Andrew Hopper 225,000 
lan Kershaw 
Robert Sansom 2,493,676 
Paul Taylor 
*Includes 115,617 (2014: 115,617) shares held by the RT Green Children's Trust of which Richard Green is a trustee. 
There has been no change in the interests set out above between 31 December 2015 and 06 April2016. 
Directors' remuneration, share options and loans 
Details of directors' remuneration and share options are provided in note 7 of the financial statements. There are no 
loans to or from the Directors. 
Directors' indemnity arrangements 
The Group has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during 
the year and remain in force at the date of this report. 
The Group has purchased and maintained throughout the year Directors' & Officers' liability insurance in respect of 
itself and its Directors. 
Page 24 of89  Strategic Report: Directors' Report (continued) 
Corporate governance 
The company's statement on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 26 to 30 
of these financial statements. The Corporate Governance report forms part of the Directors' report and is incorporated 
into it by cross-reference. 
Business review 
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review, including details offinancial performance for the 
year ending 31 December 2015, key performance indicators, principle risks and uncertainties and the future outlook 
are set out in the Chairman's statement, Chief Executive's statement and Financial Review. 
Going concern review 
The Board has considered the Going Concern position of the Group which is discussed further in note 3. 
Post balance sheet events 
In the Financial Review, the Group outlined the fact that the Mizuho loan was repaid on 31 March 2016, and that the 
Group had notified HSBC Bank pic of the breach of covenants on its loan. In response, HSBC Bank pic had responded 
indicating that it did not plan to take action, remained supportive and desired to put in place a more appropriate facility. 
Dividends 
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend for the year (2 014: £nil). 
Auditor 
A resolution to re-appoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as the Group's auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual 
General Meeting. In accordance with normal practice, the Directors will be authorised to determine the Auditor's 
remuneration. 
Approved by the Board of Directors 
And signed on behalf of the Board 
Tim Gingell 
Interim Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
06 April2016 
Ubisense Group pic 
Registered number: 05589712 
Page 25 of89 
