 Report & Accounts 2015 6
After a strong period of growth, with the volume of parcels 
handled within our business doubling over the past five years, 
UK Mail is in the midst of a period of major investment and 
transition to cement our position as one of the leading players 
in our markets. 
The focus of this investment is on continued product and 
service innovation and the development of a new fully 
automated hub which creates extra capacity and reduces 
operating costs across our business. 
At the same time, our markets are undergoing significant 
change, with material movements in the competitive landscape, 
changes to consumer spending patterns and therefore the 
behaviour of retailers. All this has created some inevitable 
challenges but it also presents real longer-term opportunities 
for UK Mail as one of the best invested and most competitive 
operators in our markets.
The move of our national hub and Birmingham head office to 
the newly constructed site at Ryton near Coventry is the largest 
Guy Buswell Chief Executive
“Our investment in  
a newly constructed, 
fully automated  
hub is the largest  
strategic development 
in UK Mail’s history, 
bringing extra 
capacity and reducing 
operating costs.”
Chief Executive’s Statement
“UK Mail is in the midst of a period 
of a major investment and transition 
at a time when our markets are 
undergoing significant change.”
Guy Buswell, Chief Executive Strategic Report 7
strategic development in the history of our business. The 
financial year just completed has been one of preparing for 
this physical transition, which is proceeding on budget and on 
schedule, albeit a lot of work remains in the next six months to 
complete this key process.  
We continue to benefit from our strong market position in our 
core businesses thanks to our efficient integrated network. The 
collapse of City Link at the end of December 2014 presented 
us with the opportunity to take on significant additional parcels 
volumes. This increase in volume in the fourth quarter took 
our parcel volumes temporarily above our current optimal 
operating capacity, resulting in above normal operating costs 
being incurred, as previously announced. We expect this effect 
will continue until the automation roll-out is fully completed in 
September 2015.
Reported Group revenues for the year at £485.1m were up 
0.8% compared to the previous year. Adjusting for there being 
one less working day than in the previous year, underlying 
Group revenues increased by 1.2%. Group profit for continuing 
operations (pre-exceptional) before tax decreased by 4.2% 
on the previous year to £21.0m. We estimate that each extra 
working day equates to some £0.5m of contribution. Adjusting 
for this factor the underlying decrease in profit before tax was 
some 1.0%.
Our Parcels business continued to deliver a satisfactory 
underlying performance, with good volume growth throughout 
the year. This volume growth was partly driven by an 
increase in home deliveries related to online shopping, with 
a continuation of the mix change towards B2C that we have 
previously seen. In the fourth quarter we achieved strong 
volume growth as a result of account wins following the demise 
of City Link.  
Our Mail business achieved another good increase in 
volumes, with our mail volumes increasing by 4.3% in the year, 
compared to a market that saw an overall volume decline 
of some 3%. This volume growth was again driven by strong 
customer retention and new customer wins. Our Mail business 
remains well positioned in its market with a healthy pipeline of 
new business opportunities. We continue to see good progress 
from imail and our related new product innovations, and we 
have identified a particular opportunity for growth in Packets.
In our Courier business revenues increased by 2.0%. This 
business has been undergoing a period of transition away 
from the traditional same-day courier operation towards an 
operation which provides specialist service support to our 
Parcels business, and this has impacted the performance for 
the year. We would expect this business to develop well as part 
of our Parcels business going forward and it will be reported 
within the Parcels division in the future.
Our Pallets business had endured a challenging few years 
with revenue and profitability declining in an increasingly 
competitive market. We took the decision in January 2015 to 
close this business, and it ceased operating in March 2015. 
This business has been treated as a discontinued operation in 
these results.
Our underlying cash generation remains strong. We have 
invested some £36.1m in the new hub and automation during 
the year, however our cash levels have been carefully managed 
such that our net debt position at the year end was £5.2m 
(2014: net cash of £27.0m).
The Board has proposed that the final dividend be increased 
by 2.1% to 14.5p (2014: 14.2p). The total dividend for the year 
will increase 2.3% to 21.8p (2014: 21.3p) which is covered 1.39 
times by the basic underlying earnings per share.  
