 3
The format of our Annual report
Our Annual report comprises three parts; a Strategic Report 
followed by a Governance section and the Financial Statements. 
The Strategic Report includes a review of our business model, 
outlines our strategy and provides detail of the development 
and performance of our business during the year ended 31 
March 2015, followed by an analysis of our trading during 
the year and our financial position at the end of that year, 
consideration of our risk management strategy and our 
Corporate Responsibility report.
The Governance section details how we comply with the 2012 
UK Corporate Governance Code, describing the work of the 
Board and its key committees. It also includes the Director’s 
report, Remuneration Report (including a proposed revised 
policy), and the Auditors Report.
The success of all these are reported within our Financial 
statements which together with the supporting notes provide a 
comprehensive view of the Group’s financial performance and 
position.
Strategy
Our strategy is to grow our revenue and profitability by 
establishing a market leading position in our key markets  
of parcels and mail, with a clear focus on high service  
levels and network efficiency together with product and  
service innovation.
As you will read later in this report, a key factor in our strategy 
is to expand the size of markets available to us, and to gain an 
increasing share of those markets. To achieve this, we have 
introduced a number of new and innovative services over the 
last few years, which are now gaining real traction.
We are also implementing our plans to grow our capacity to 
allow us to take advantage of the opportunities available to us.
I am pleased to say that much progress has been made in 
this regard as we build the necessary platforms for the future 
following our move to a new central hub in Ryton, where 
the installation of automated sortation equipment will see a 
reduction in our sortation costs, at the same time as providing 
increased capacity.
Our teams across our business have done an excellent job in 
planning and managing this substantial change. To date this 
has been delivered on schedule and on budget which is a 
tremendous achievement.
We have made substantial progress over the last few years, 
developing the business to its current position. However, whilst 
more remains to be done, I believe the investments of the last 
few years are about to bear fruit.
Discontinued operations
In January 2015, and following declining profitability in an 
increasingly competitive market, the Board took the decision to 
close the Pallets operation, with trade ceasing in March 2015. 
In accordance with IFRS 5, ‘Non-current assets held for sale and 
discontinued operations’, the results of this business have been 
presented as a discontinued operation in 2015 and  2014.
Dividend
The Board has proposed an increase in the final dividend of 
0.3p, taking the final dividend to 14.5p (2014:  14.2p), resulting 
in a total dividend for the year of 21.8p (2014: 21.3p). This 
represents a full year increase of 2.3%.
The total dividend is covered 1.39 times by the underlying basic 
earnings (2014: 1.50 times).
People
Our people have seen many changes over the last year, 
largely due to the relocation of our central hub and head 
office.  This has resulted in the relocation of some 650 people.  
This process has been handled professionally and I would 
like to personally thank all of those individuals affected for 
the commitment they have shown to UK Mail during such a 
demanding period.
The achievements of the last few years could not have been 
achieved without the hard work, dedication and commitment 
of all those who work for UK Mail. On behalf of the Board I 
would like to express my gratitude to all of our colleagues, be 
they employees, sub-contractors or suppliers to the Group.
Outlook
We operate in markets where there are significant opportunities. 
The Parcels market is growing rapidly and the key initiatives we 
are progressing in Mail will create further opportunities.
We are in the midst of a phase of strategic investment to place 
us at a significant competitive advantage for the medium 
and longer term. This investment, the benefits of which are 
expected to be seen from the second half of the new financial 
year sets us up very well for the next stage of profitable growth. 
The medium and long term outlook for the Group therefore 
remain very positive.
Peter Kane,  
Chairman 
19 May 2015
Chairman’s Statement
UK Mail Group continued to make progress whilst 
undergoing a period of significant investment and 
transition.  Financial highlights for the year include;
• Group revenues up 0.8% *
• Group PBT down 4.2% *
• Underlying basic EPS down 1.3%*, and
• Full year dividend increased 2.3% to 21.8p per share 
* excluding discontinued operations
