 Portfolio strength focused on customer need 
Chief Executive’s review
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Introduction
As we entered 2015, the continuing
uncertainty in our core defence markets led us
to adopt a prudent view of annual performance
against which we have delivered. While it
seems a long time ago, you will recall in those
early months the UK was in its normal pause
during the general election and resolution of
US government spending plans were far from
certain. Uncertainty of this nature inevitably
translates into caution at the contract ofﬁcer
level, which we saw reﬂected in the 10%
year-on-year reduction reported in US defence
outlays in the ﬁrst half of 2015. This caution led
us to take the early measures necessary to
control costs across the Group and ensure
performance in line with market expectations.
By the close of the year we were in a very
different place. A surprise election victory by
the Conservative Party in the UK led to a
comprehensive and well-considered Strategic
Defence & Security Review by ministers and
ofﬁcials familiar with the challenges. A 
real-term increase in defence spending
coupled with a commitment to maintain
spending at 2% of GDP was a responsible
reaction to the increase in global instability,
security threats and conﬂicts. In the US a
similar appreciation of the broad range of
potential threats that the nation’s armed
forces may need to respond to, contributed
to a welcome two-year budget agreement.
These outcomes provide greater clarity for
the future UK and US defence procurement
programmes, with real opportunities in Ultra’s
areas of strength, including submarine build,
ISTAR and Communications. My remaining
caution would be that both the US and UK
defence procurement programmes remain
highly ambitious and funding pressure will
inevitably continue. Improved efﬁciency in
the supply chain will be an increasing
demand made by both governments but one
to which we are already responding.
*see footnote on page 136
Rakesh Sharma                       
Chief Executive
These outcomes
provide greater clarity
for the future UK and
US defence procurement
programmes, with real
opportunities in Ultra’s
areas of strength,
including submarine
build, ISTAR and
Communications.
“
” Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
The Group’s development of secure positions
on a range of aerospace opportunities
through long-term development investment
will transition to production revenue over the
next few years. The majority of the value that
this unlocks lies beyond the current order
book value in multi-year positions and
agreements. Our nuclear business is
increasingly focused on commercial
opportunities as long-term investment plans
clarify. As an example, the excellent
relationship we have developed with EDF in
the commercial nuclear market is now
physically reﬂected in the delivery of the ﬁrst
reactor core neutron ﬂux detectors from the
£5m joint Ultra/EDF facility.
Positioning for future growth
During the year we reorganised into three
new divisions (pages 30 to 35) which reflect
the eight market segments we now use to
better connect our organisational structure to
end markets. The divisions drive performance
and delivery through the organisation,
controlling costs and instilling the behaviours
we seek. The segments allow businesses from
across the Group to collaborate in the
presentation of their collective capability to
end customers and allow Ultra to offer the
more comprehensive solutions the market
increasingly demands. Importantly, the 24
individual businesses retain a high degree
of autonomy, allowing them the agility to
respond quickly to emerging opportunities
and changing customer needs without the
need to seek permission from a dense,
hierarchal structure. It also ensures our people
feel responsibility towards every aspect of
delivery to the customer and the performance
of their individual business. 
Challenging markets and a deflationary
economy demand increasing efficiency. In the
year we have taken further manpower
reductions to match changes in revenue and
keep our businesses lean. We have also
announced the Standardisation & Shared
Services S3 programme which will bring
together non-differentiating activities
(including HR, IT and Finance) from across the
Group into regional hubs where we can deliver
the services to the businesses more effectively.
S3 is on track to start to cover its costs in 2016
and make substantive savings thereafter.
Entry into new markets requires careful
assessment accompanied by appropriate
relationships. Ultra builds such positions
gradually so as to test assumptions and grow
confidence in new partnerships. During the
period we made two key moves which
position us for future growth:
• In June we signed a Memorandum of
Understanding (MOU) with Mahindra in
India to support defence and security
opportunities, initially in sonar systems and
radio equipment. Mahindra is a $17bn
multinational group that is responding to
the signiﬁcant changes that have followed
the election of Prime Minister Modi’s BJP
party to enter the defence sector. In
partnership we have been selected to
supply £30m of torpedo defence systems to
the Indian Navy with further orders
expected. Mahindra have already
demonstrated their ability to build the
system’s countermeasure launcher in
country to the required levels of quality.
• In September we announced a strategic
partnership with NuScale Power in the US
to produce the ﬁrst commercial Small
Modular Reactor (SMR). Ultra will provide
the reactor control and instrumentation
systems for a new kind of nuclear plant
that is a safer, smaller and scalable version
of the pressurised water reactor technology
we are already familiar with from our
submarine propulsion experience.
Incorporating natural safety features, this
safe, reliable, carbon-free power source
takes away many of the issues surrounding
larger nuclear installations. The US and UK
governments are very supportive and Ultra
is ﬁrmly on board at the outset.
*see footnote on page 136
S3 is on track to cover its costs in 2016 
and make substantive savings thereafter.
“
”
Operational highlights 
• The award of an £18m contract for 
the design and development of reactor
control and cooling systems for the
next generation of Royal Navy nuclear
submarines. This continues our close
involvement in the UK submarine
programme supplying critical electrical
and control systems to the Vanguard,
Astute and Future Deterrent platforms. 
• An £18m contract award for the supply
of sonobuoys for the Royal Navy’s
Merlin Maritime Patrol Helicopter ﬂeet.
This contract covers technical design,
development, manufacture and logistic
support of a range of passive and active
buoys capable of detecting modern
conventional and nuclear submarines.
The capability supports forecast export
sales over the next two years to France,
Germany, Sweden, Poland, Turkey, UAE
and Australia.
• The award of engineering development
contracts for the Mitsubishi Regional Jet
(MRJ) landing gear and steering gear
control units, adding another long-term
position to our aerospace business.
Underlying earnings per share* +0.6%
123.9p (2014: 123.1p)
2015 123.9
2014 123.1
2013
2012
2011 121.1
125.5
127.1
>
KPI
Dividend per share +4.1%
46.1p (2014: 44.3p)
2015 46.1
2014 44.3
2013
2012
2011 38.5
40.0
42.2
> Portfolio strength focused on customer need 
Chief Executive’s review (continued)
06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Portfolio strength
The segment analysis we have undertaken has
also allowed us to more rigorously assess our
portfolio in terms of internal investment,
acquisition and divestment. This analysis
directly inﬂuenced the Group’s decision in June
to make its largest ever acquisition of the
Electronic Products Division of Kratos Defense
& Security Solutions for $258m, now known
as Ultra Electronics Herley (Herley). Acquisition
of Herley established a major presence in the
Electronic Warfare (EW) market at a time of
strong growth in this sector, correcting an
underweight position. The business comes
with long-term contracts as a specialist
component and sub-system provider to several
major US programmes. Since joining Ultra the
business has been successful in winning new
positions, most recently on the US Navy’s
Surface EW Improvement Programme (SEWIP).
Herley is now part of the Communications &
Security division.
In October the Group acquired Furnace Parts
LLC for $12m, a developer and supplier of
thermocouple-based temperature sensors for
demanding applications in the nuclear and
process control markets. Furnace Parts has
been integrated into Ultra’s existing Nuclear
Sensors & Process Instrumentation (NSPI)
business based in Round Rock, Texas.
Ultra continues to invest between 5% and
6% of revenue in internal development to
refresh and develop new offerings. Segment
analysis and collaboration has allowed the
prioritisation of this development spending to
better match customer interests and funding.
We are also more carefully aligning
development activity across the Group.
Customer needs
Ultra’s underlying behaviours focus heavily on
meeting customer need. By remaining with
technologies and markets we understand
well, and through sustained internal
development investment, we are able to offer
leading technology solutions tailored to
customer need. Our through-life and service
provision supports the Group’s systems,
products and components so we understand
how to deliver successfully. Meeting our
commitments and sustaining our position as
an excellent strategic supplier to our
customers is at the forefront of our
behaviours. These guiding principles are
underpinned by our LEAP and LAUNCH
behaviours (more information on page 45).
Acquisition of 
Herley established a
major presence in the
Electronic Warfare (EW)
market at a time of
strong growth in this
sector, correcting an
underweight position.
“
” 1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
1996 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 2015
0
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
Summary
Ultra’s objective remains to outperform the
market in terms of annual increases in
shareholder return. Our long-term
performance is illustrated by the graph below.
In the prevailing markets the Executive Team
must maintain a careful balance between
meeting performance during the year while
investing and positioning for longer-term
growth. I believe that the changes we have
made in our market approach, the improved
management of our portfolio of capabilities
and the new positions we are achieving,
through acquisition, investment and
partnership, will deliver that longer-term
growth. Improved efﬁciency, through delivery
of the S3 programme and through
continuing cost control, will keep Ultra lean
and ﬁt. Balancing this with continuing
autonomy in our individual businesses will
maintain our innovation, sense of ownership
and agility. 
2016 should see stabilising defence and
security budgets in the face of increased
tensions and threats but the impacts will take
time to reach our mid-tier position. Wider
ﬁscal volatility, in oil revenues and reducing
demand from emerging markets, will impact
some of our markets. That said, it is an
improving picture and there are promising
indications of a new growth cycle for defence
and security. 
Increasing efﬁciency and portfolio
rationalisation, together with the beneﬁts 
of sound acquisition, will add to this
improving position. Over the next few years
the acceleration in aerospace production 
will further improve revenue. As a result a
slow but steady reversal of recent declines
can now be anticipated.
None of this happens without a huge
amount of hard work and commitment by
every one of the Group’s 4,843 employees.
At all levels of management, engineering,
production, marketing, HR and ﬁnance
people have gone the extra mile to ensure
we met our market guidance and delivered
for our shareholders. I could not be more
proud of the sustained levels of enthusiasm,
commitment, dedication and resolve that I
see on a daily basis within Ultra. In the ﬁnal
analysis it is this resolve that gives me
conﬁdence in the Group’s future success.
Rakesh Sharma
Chief Executive
Ultra’s track record of delivering 
above average shareholder returns 
since ﬂotation (pence)
= Key Performance Indicator, see pages 28-29 for details
>
KPI
A slow but steady 
reversal of recent 
declines can now 
be anticipated.
“
”
KPI
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
FTSE all share price index
FTSE 100 price index
FTSE all share aerospace/defence
