 54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Corporate Governance Report
Governance
Chairman’s governance statement Dear shareholder,
Strong governance continues to be at the
core of Ultra’s culture and operations. In
September 2014, a revised UK corporate
governance code was issued which applies to
accounting periods commencing on or after 
1 October 2014 (the Code). In the pages which
follow, we have set out our governance
policies and practices and included details of
how the Group has complied with the Code. 
The Board and its Remuneration, Audit and
Nomination Committees have considered the
Group’s policies and procedures in light of the
revised Code. As a result, improvements have
been made to the Group’s risk management
and internal control procedures (the details of
which are set out on pages 61 and 62); and
the Board has agreed a long-term viability
statement (set out on page 27). 
In the year, we have continued our active
engagement with the investor community
(see page 62) and taken account of our
shareholder voting guidelines. From 2016
onwards, all awards granted to Executive
Directors will be subject to a two-year post
vesting holding period, whereby net of tax
awards vesting cannot normally be sold until at
least the ﬁfth anniversary of the date of grant.
Mary Waldner (Group Finance Director) will
leave Ultra on 16 March 2016. The Nomination
Committee has been active in the search for a
new Group Finance Director. Details of the
Nomination Committee’s work in this regard
are set out on page 59. Succession planning for
the Board and senior management has been
a focus in 2015 (as described on page 60)
and will remain so in 2016.
Strong governance and high ethical standards
are the hallmarks of a sustainable business.
This is particularly the case during times of
challenging market conditions. The Board is
conﬁdent that Ultra’s strategy, reinforced by
Ultra’s culture of accountability and
responsibility and supported by a robust
governance framework, ensures Ultra remains
a resilient and sustainable business.
Douglas Caster CBE
Chairman
26 February 2016
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 55
Corporate Governance Report (continued)
1. Introduction 2. Strategic report 3. Governance 4. Group ﬁnancials 5. Company ﬁnancials 6. Five-year review
The Board is conﬁdent that Ultra’s strategy,
reinforced by Ultra’s culture of accountability 
and responsibility and supported by a robust
governance framework, ensures Ultra remains 
a resilient and sustainable business.
“
”
