 The Group’s activities in 2005 will
build upon the achievements of 2004
and our customer focused strategy
will provide a platform for continued
success in the future.
In last year’s Annual Report I set out my
vision of how UNITE would evolve in 2004.
The key elements I identiﬁed were:
a total commitment to our customers 
and people as being at the core of 
operating success; 
shifting the focus of our activities 
towards maximising the return from our
existing portfolio in conjunction with 
that from a quality-led development 
pipeline; and
broadening our range of available 
ﬁnancing options and thereby 
improving ﬂexibility. 
It is particularly pleasing, therefore, to
report on a year of substantial progress
against all objectives.
Continued steady growth in our portfolio
saw the Group deliver an additional 5,104
beds into the completed portfolio,
increasing its value to £1.0 billion. The
completed portfolio performed strongly,
with average occupancy of 95% of
available rooms at the start of the 2004/05
academic year (2003: 96%) and like-for-
like revenue growth of 6.8% between the
last and current academic years (2003:
7.6%). Development pipeline visibility
remains good, with 4,677 beds scheduled
for delivery for the academic year 2005/06
(including assets held in joint ventures)
and a further 5,759 beds already secured
for delivery in 2006 and beyond. All of
these new developments are fully funded
in equity and debt terms and are
expected to add a further 48 pence per
share to the Group’s net asset value upon
completion and letting.
Finally, our disposal and joint venture
activity provided increased ﬁnancial
ﬂexibility for the Group and much needed
valuation evidence for the market.
Student Accommodation
market overview
The fundamentals of the UK Higher
Education sector remain in our favour.
Student numbers grew (for the thirtieth
consecutive year) by 0.9% coming into
the current academic year, with
particularly strong demand from overseas
students, where numbers increased by
some 12% year-on-year. This trend looks
set to continue, with Universities
increasingly targeting the more lucrative
overseas market, and with successful
study applications to the competing US
market declining sharply as a result of the
current global environment.
Listening to our customers,
people and shareholders
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Annual Report 2004 09
Nicholas Porter
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Mercury Point
Southampton
562 en-suite study rooms
Opened 2004
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:26  Page 9 The strain that this puts on Universities’
infrastructure, particularly accommodation,
is obvious. T o help meet this need UNITE
continues to provide much needed high
quality housing in key University markets.
The supply of accommodation is
struggling to keep pace with this
increased demand. Whilst Universities are
beginning to provide new accommodation
through public-private partnership
initiatives, with mixed success, much of
the new stock is replacing existing out-
dated housing such that the net increase
in supply is relatively small. 
Increased licensing standards will come
into force in 2006 following passing of the
Housing Act in December 2004. As a
result, the private rented sector, which
currently represents approximately 65% of
all student accommodation, will need to
meet the required standards to gain a
license to operate. This has been further
exacerbated in some markets through the
sustained rise in house prices, which has
encouraged smaller private landlords to sell
and thereby release housing stock back
into the private residential market. Indeed,
some Universities have followed a similar
course with their own residential housing
stock to release capital.
Student and University funding remains a
sensitive and challenging issue. The
planned introduction of variable tuition fees
has begun to provide Universities with
increased funding options, but at current
levels they are still faced with a signiﬁcant
funding gap that necessitates increasingly
innovative solutions, in which parties such
as UNITE can make a positive contribution.
From a student perspective, independent
research carried out by MORI on behalf
of UNITE suggests that they are
becoming increasingly comfortable with
funding investment in their education
through increased borrowings. With the
effective deferral of tuition fees into their
employment lives, students’ immediate
disposable income will, in fact, increase
under the new arrangements.
In this changing environment students, and
their parents, have a heightened consumer
attitude and are demanding improvements
in the services they receive. It is with this in
mind that UNITE’s customer led strategy
remains as important as ever. 
Our customers
In 2004 UNITE provided accommodation for
over 26,000 students and this will increase to
31,000 by the end of 2005. In this context, our
customer focused strategy added
considerable value to the business in 2004
and will form the platform for continued
success in the future. It provides a challenging
framework within which to measure our
decisions and performance and has provided
impetus in a number of critical areas.
Our programme of openings in 2004 was
our best ever. Of particular note was a
greatly enhanced approach to building
commissioning, especially in those
projects which beneﬁted from off-site
manufacturing, and smoother team
mobilisation. This was aided by the fact
that we did not open buildings in any new
cities and could therefore leverage our
existing local infrastructure.
We have made important improvements to
the speciﬁcation of our new projects. 
Many important changes took effect with
schemes delivered in 2004 and all pipeline
10   Annual Report 2004
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Demand is increasing
for high quality facilities
like the privacy and
convenience of en-suites
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:26  Page 10 Annual Report 2004 11
projects for delivery in 2005 and beyond
have also beneﬁted from a signiﬁcant
enhancement in the level of communal
facilities offered. This is particularly true
of our larger projects. We are conﬁdent
that this will help shape the expectations
of students in the future.
In June 2004 we announced a
partnership with BT to provide
broadband services across our entire
estate. This service had been rolled out
across our portfolio by December 2004
and subscription uptake has been
encouraging. The opportunities for us to
further enhance our customers’
experience through leveraging this
infrastructure are signiﬁcant.
We have increased the level of on-site
resource at our properties. Part of this
has been as a result of the in-sourcing of
certain services (such as basic
maintenance) but we have also moved
to shift certain responsibilities to the ﬁeld
teams from the centre. This increased
resource will have impacted slightly on
margins for 2004 but will deliver positive
improvements in the short term.
T o provide further support to our local
ﬁeld teams and position the business to
beneﬁt from the newly installed
broadband infrastructure, we have
commenced an investment programme
in relation to our systems platform, aimed
at delivering increased efﬁciencies for
UNITE, allowing our customers greater
functionality and resulting in signiﬁcant
competitive advantage.
Customer satisfaction and
recommendation rates are an important
measure of our success and future
prospects. During 2004, our customer
satisfaction ratings increased by 9% and
recommendation rates remained high at
92%. Much of this improvement can be
attributed to the above initiatives on
which we intend to build.
In addition to the important initiatives
aimed at improving returns from our
existing portfolio, we also recognise the
challenges represented by our future
growth plans and are conﬁdent we have
the competencies to meet them.
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Friendly, ﬂexible
common spaces that
feel like home
Site availability remains generally good
and there are signs that pressures in
other segments of the property
development market are presenting
opportunities for us.
The planning environment remains
positive for the Group. We have a
signiﬁcant track record with each of the
local planning authorities with whom
we work and have worked effectively in
promoting a clear understanding of the
urban regeneration beneﬁts of student
housing. As part of this, we are
participating fully in the Government
consultation process being undertaken
as part of the Barker Review and will
continue to do so as future policy 
is shaped.
Build cost inﬂation remains a signiﬁcant
challenge for the Group, in common
with the broader development market.
It is therefore encouraging that we have
been able to maintain development
margins at our target level, although
there will inevitably be some downward
pressure on margins in the future,
driven by skills shortages in labour
markets, the impact of new regulations
and upwards pressure on the prices of
key raw materials.
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:26  Page 11 Given the pressures of build cost inﬂation,
the performance of our modular
construction division during 2004 was
encouraging. With production output of
2,530 modules together with the
associated componentry, the division was
ﬁnancially competitive with traditional
construction alternatives. Furthermore,
additional modular construction beneﬁts
of certainty of delivery and improved
quality have been evident. 98.2% of
deliveries to site were achieved on time
and process improvements introduced at
the manufacturing facility reduced on-line
defects by more than 85% over the
course of the year. As a result, on site
defects and commissioning times were
greatly reduced. Further increases in
production volumes, increasing efﬁciency
and the more favourable inﬂationary
environment of the manufacturing sector
mean that our modular construction
business is well positioned to build on
this success in 2005.
12   Annual Report 2004
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
Our people
Throughout the year we invested in
strengthening our property based and
manufacturing teams, growing our
headcount by 37% to 773. This growth
has been supported by our continuing
commitment to training and development.
We have continued with our core
programmes of management
development to instill core people skills
consistently across the Group. In
particular, we have invested in a major
customer service initiative for all
colleagues and have deﬁned our values
to underpin our strategy of delivering for
our customers, people and shareholders.
Employee satisfaction, one of our key
drivers, has also increased signiﬁcantly. At
almost 80% satisﬁed, this measure puts
UNITE in the top ten per cent of employers
in the UK. Over 90% of colleagues say
they enjoy the work they do and a similar
proportion rank the performance of their
line manager favourably, showing the
impact of our Group wide management
development activities.
In building on the important theme of
stability and in ensuring that we properly
anticipate the needs of our future skills,
we introduced a career development and
succession planning process in 2004
and have begun the work to develop
our colleagues to achieve our future
growth plans.
In addition, we have linked personal and
professional development with meeting
our corporate and social responsibilities,
through colleagues supporting local
charities and communities as part of their
ongoing growth and development.
Looking forward
The Group’s activities in 2005 will build
upon the achievements of 2004. The
student accommodation market remains
positive and, with an ever increasing
understanding of our customers’ needs,
UNITE is well positioned to further cement
its position as the UK’s largest student
landlord. Our growth opportunities remain
signiﬁcant and our proven infrastructure
will allow us to capitalise on this in a
managed way. 
Furthermore, with our credibility in the
student market now beginning to be
reﬂected in the broader ﬁnancial and
property markets as well, we will be using
2005 to build further on the important
advances made in the ﬂexibility of our
capital base.
UNITE has achieved a considerable
amount in its ﬁve years as a publicly
quoted company, not only growing its
portfolio by a factor of ﬁfteen, and its
operations commensurately, but through
effectively establishing the student
accommodation asset class at the same
time. With a market share of less than 4%
in our major markets, the future
opportunities are just as great and I am
looking forward to 2005 being as
successful as 2004.
Grand Central, Liverpool
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:26  Page 12 Happy days
“Students that stay at home
miss out on the whole
university experience”
Source: 2005 Student Experience Report,
commissioned by UNITE and conducted by MORI
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:27  Page 13 Comparing notes
8126 UNITE A\R 64pp Interior  18/4/05  11:27  Page 14
