 CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
management’ s attention during the year has been on
putting in place the operational systems necessary 
for consistent growth. These included setting up fully
accountable operating divisions for the development,
accommodation services and manufacturing activities;
creating an effective management board responsible for
developing and implementing detailed plans; installing 
a package of Oracle e-business systems required for 
our integrated business; and initiating cost control
programmes.
FINANCIAL RESUL TS
In line with a further step change in the size of the business,
the net asset value of the Group increased from £202m 
to £308m. Of this increase of £1 06m, £60m related to the
portfolio itself and £74m to equity raised in the year , offset 
by £9.1m of pre-exceptional losses and £1 9.2m of goodwill
amortisation, other exceptional items and dividends. With
the larger number of shares now in issue, net asset value 
per share fell marginally from 297p in 2001 to 286p. At the
end of 2002, the value of our completed portfolio stood at
£542m, and the total value of our properties including those
in development stood at £71 0m.
Our portfolio of completed properties increased during
the year from 10,337 beds at the end of 2001 to 14,778
beds. Rental income on these properties, including
Peabody UNITE (as if it had been consolidated for both
years in full), once again increased significantly from
£18.8m in 2001 to £32.4m. The annualised gross rent 
roll at the end of 2002 stood at £43.4m. Operating profits
from the completed properties rose by 65% from £11 .6m
in 2001 to £19.1m in 2002. The portfolio made a small
profit after absorbing all attributable overheads and the
interest costs associated with the properties.
As the business is still strongly in a development phase,
the Group recorded a loss before exceptional items and
goodwill of £9.1m. This resulted from the write-off of
£6.2m of pre-contract development costs, in line with the
requirements of the new accounting guidance UITFAbstract
34 adopted by the Group in the year , and from absorbing
central overheads, much of which is associated with the
growth of the business. This accounting standard has 
the result that costs associated with development incurred
prior to the point of virtual certainty on a contract are
accounted for through the profit and loss account, whilst
the associated NAV uplift is taken to the balance sheet. 
At the exceptional level two significant costs were incurred,
namely £1.3m in relation to the University of Sheffield PPP
contract negotiations, from which we withdrew, and £9.7m
of break costs in relation to historic debt following the
restructuring of debt funding. After these exceptional items
and goodwill amortisation, the Group recorded a loss 
after tax of £25.6m (2001: loss of £2.0m) and a loss per
share (excluding goodwill amortisation, exceptional items
and deferred tax) of 10.67p (2001: loss of 5.01p). 
Gearing as at 31 December 2002 increased to 1 33% partly
as a result of the securitisation, representing a loan to value
ratio of 58% (December 2001: 93% and 50% respectively).
We would expect this trend to continue as the ratio of
completed assets relative to developments increases.
DIVIDEND
In line with our stated policy , the Board is pleased to
recommend a final dividend of 1.67p per share, making 
INTRODUCTION
UNITE is a highly focused business which has over the 
past few years secured the leading position in the student
and key worker accommodation market, principally by
offering a complete service from development through 
to servicing of accommodation. 
During the year I am pleased to report the achievement of a
number of key objectives, notably a strong performance from
our portfolio of completed properties and the delivery of a
planned development pipeline, which increased from 1 7 ,460
beds at the end of 2001 to 26,346 beds at the end of 2002.
2002 has been a year in which we built the firm financial 
and structural foundations on which to deliver our true
potential. Importantly , the Group established a brand 
new asset class in the bond markets when it completed a
securitisation of substantially all of its mature portfolio in April
2002. In the process £275m was raised from the issue of
bonds, £39m of which was released for reinvestment.
In August, in very difficult markets and against a background
of clarity of concept and strategic focus, we were able to
raise £55m (net of expenses). This was a lower level of equity
raised than previously planned, leading to a reduction in
our targeted growth in secured bed numbers to 8,500 per
annum, which still remains a very healthy rate of growth. 
We very much appreciate the confidence shown by our
shareholders in supporting the new equity issue. 
In addition to the delivery of performance against agreed
plans and securing finance to support long term growth,
Page 04 Chairman’ s statement
The UNITE Group plc 
www.unite-group.co.uk
Geoffrey Maddrell
Chairman, UNITE a total dividend of 2.5p per share for the year (2001: 2.5p).
The dividend will be paid on 14 May 2003 to shareholders
on the register on 11 April 2003.
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
DEVELOPMENT
Our acquisitions teams have continued to provide a strong
pipeline of well located schemes for future development in
our target towns and cities across the UK. UNITE’ s growth
strategy is to target prime cities and regional markets,
thereby gaining operating cost efficiencies and synergies.
The Group has secured over 1,000 beds in each of ten
target cities (Aberdeen, Bristol, Glasgow, Leeds, Liverpool,
London, Manchester , Newcastle, Portsmouth and
Sheffield), four of which were added in 2002. 
MANUFACTURING
Off-site manufacturing is another important element in 
our strategy for addressing cost and quality on a lifetime
basis. We have the advantage of reasonably standard
products, to which we are able to apply modern
manufacturing processes. During the year we closed 
the less automated manufacturing facility in Bristol and
commissioned a new modular manufacturing facility in
Gloucestershire, capable of producing high volumes of 
fully finished bedroom modules. As the facility ramps up
production in 2003, the Group anticipates producing some
1,500 equivalent modules and, depending on the exact
volume and mix, expects to incur a loss of £1 .5m in this start
up year , the majority of which will be incurred in the first
half of the year . The facility is expected to breakeven by
the end of 2004.
ACCOMMODATION SERVICES
The key for longer-term success in accommodation
services lies in effective marketing and the careful
management of the properties themselves. We have
extended our marketing activities with promotions,
marketing materials, show-flats and our student web site,
all with a view to maximising occupancy , particularly in
newly opened accommodation. It is a credit to our regional
accommodation teams that we maintained an average of
95% occupancy on all available rooms throughout the year .  
THE BOARD AND STAFF
We were delighted to announce recently the appointment
of Nigel Hall as a Non-Executive Director . Nigel was Group
Finance Director of Arcadia Group plc (formerly The Burton
Group plc) until February 2003 and joined us on 6 March
“IN A DEFINING YEAR AND AMIDST
CHALLENGING ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS, UNITE HAS PROVED 
ITS RESILIENCE AND BUSINESS
PROPOSITION.”
Page 05 Chairman’ s statement
The UNITE Group plc 
www.unite-group.co.uk
2003. I am certain he will make a significant contribution 
to the Group. David Naish retired from the Board with
effect from 25 March 2003. David’ s involvement with 
the Group dates back to 1996 and includes him having
served for more than four years as a Non-Executive
Director . In particular , David was Chairman of the Group
when it was first admitted to trading on the Alternative
Investment Market in 1999. I would like to thank him for 
all his efforts over the years and send him our warm good
wishes for the future.
We have also announced that David Ransome, Chief
Operating Officer , will be stepping down from the Board
and leaving the Group with effect from June 2003. 
David has overseen the development of the people and
processes required to grow the business. Now that the
senior management team and Operations Board are in
place and working effectively , David’ s role has come to 
a natural end. His duties will be absorbed into the role of
Chief Executive Officer , with Nicholas Porter taking over
full line management responsibilities for the Operations
Board from April 2003. David has made an invaluable
contribution to the growth and development of UNITE 
and will be missed by colleagues across the business. 
Special attention was paid in the year to reshaping and
strengthening our senior management team, which is
performing well. 
There are significant demands on all employees in growing
a business in a new industry sector . We particularly appreciate
the commitment, energy , flexibility and willingness to take 
on the challenges evidenced throughout the business, all of
which have made it possible for us to put in place a dynamic
strategy . We are very excited at the long-term potential which
UNITE can offer to all of its stakeholders.
PROSPECTS
In a defining year and amidst challenging economic
conditions, UNITE has proved its resilience and business
proposition. We have established clear strategic
objectives, consolidated management and started the
process of continuous cost control, thereby establishing
the platform for future growth and attractive financial
returns. Our core divisions – development, manufacturing
and accommodation services – have made significant
progress in line with plan. I firmly believe that UNITE is 
well positioned to capitalise on the excellent potential of 
its chosen market, to continue to deliver on our stated
strategy and to fulfil our shareholders’ expectations.
