 Page 06 Chief Executive Officer’ s review
The UNITE Group plc 
www.unite-group.co.uk
Nicholas Porter
Chief Executive Officer , UNITE
OPTIMISING THE BUSINESS
During the year under review, we have achieved
significant milestones in our stated strategy of leading 
the market for affordable, high quality student and key
worker accommodation. The Group has restructured 
its financing during the year raising £275m through the
issuing of bonds by way of securitisation. In the process
£39m of cash was released for further reinvestment within
the Group. UNITE has also completed a £200m warehouse
facility and increased development facilities to £208m.
In March 2002, UNITE acquired full control of Peabody
UNITE, its London joint venture with Peabody T rust.
Peabody UNITE’ s activities were rapidly integrated into
the Group’ s regional operations and, since then, the
Group has benefited from all of the development and
operating profits on the London portfolio. 
In order to maintain our pace of growth, we achieved our
stated aim of raising further equity of £55m for investment
into the development pipeline, thus freeing us from a
reliance on further equity to fund growth. The fund raising
was undertaken at a time of economic uncertainty and
continuing stock market volatility and we are delighted 
by the ongoing support and loyalty demonstrated by our
shareholders during this process. The proceeds have
enabled the Group to maintain growth momentum 
and secure a total of 8,886 new organic beds for 2002,
increasing the size of the portfolio by 51% to 26,346.
Once these new beds are built-out, the total value of the
portfolio will exceed £1 billion. The value of the portfolio
has increased by 90% during the year . 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
Our strategic focus has always been and continues to 
be on delivering maximum value to our shareholders and
customers. Our three decentralised business divisions,
together with Group services, each have clear strategic,
financial and people development targets to drive
performance and accountability throughout the
organisation. The implementation of overhead cost
control programmes has been an essential component 
in maintaining a lean operating platform. In October 
2002, this resulted in the merger of our Leeds and 
Salford offices, an internal restructuring of the combined
businesses and a reduction in staff levels. In addition,
combined efficiency measures have reduced operating
costs (excluding factory) by 10%. Our plans going 
forward particularly focus on improving the net rental
margin within our Accommodation Services division and
further value engineering our products and services. 
DEVELOPMENT DIVISION
During 2002, we were pleased to secure 8,886 new
organic beds for development. UNITE has a visible
development portfolio and this has been increased from
17,460 beds to 26,346 beds. The composition of the
Group’ s secured portfolio is as follows:
Number of income generating beds 14,778
Number secured or in development 11,568 
T otal number of beds 26,346 
UNITE has secured over 1,000 beds in each of 1 0 prime
target cities across the UK. Four of these, Aberdeen,
Glasgow, Leeds and Liverpool, were added in 2002. This
has enabled the Group to realise operating cost efficiencies
and synergies such as maintenance, marketing and
accommodation management. UNITE is operational in a
total of 30 towns and cities across the UK and continues 
to focus on targeted regional markets for its future growth.
We believe our skill in acquiring well-located sites and
properties, all of which must meet our rigorous criteria, 
is at the core of our competitive advantage. Student
accommodation is spearheading urban regeneration in
cities across the UK and we are finding that in the current
climate, a greater number of suitable development
opportunities are coming our way as competition from
commercial developers has weakened. Capitalising on 
this competitive edge, planning strategies have been
implemented to achieve the right consents to ensure that
we maintain our record of faster delivery at the planning
stage than those achieved in average residential schemes.
This has been helped as we set precedents for our brand of
affordable student accommodation in towns across the UK. 
UNITE’ s existing portfolio of 26,346 secured beds
(currently completed or in development) has been
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER’S REVIEW
