 Market segment
Ultra’s place in the market
Ultra continues to focus on its main markets
of Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber,
Transport and Energy. To explain its wide
portfolio of capabilities more effectively, the
Group have adopted the market segmentation
shown opposite. Each of the eight segments
generate highly differentiated, cost-effective
and proven technologies at the system, 
sub-system and component level. These
technologies are often fundamental to the
performance, safety or mission success of the
platforms in which they are incorporated,
making Ultra a critical supplier on many
complex platforms, enjoying long-term
positions. To sustain this advantage the Group
harnesses both internal and customer-funded
research and development to tailor solutions
to changing customer needs and budgets.
This sustains its reputation as an exceptional
supplier of enabling technology. This is based
upon the development of a deep
understanding of individual customer
requirements through open dialogue and
long-term relationships.
The segment structure allows Ultra to harness
the capabilities of its 24 businesses to
provide technical expertise and domain
knowledge to deliver the more complete,
comprehensive and cost-effective solutions
they demand. Where needed, the Group
partners seamlessly with best-of-breed
suppliers to offer a more complete solution
and will happily “lead or follow” as a 
non-threatening mid-tier company in order 
to completely satisfy customer need. Equally,
individual businesses continue to develop and
supply the speciﬁc, high-end technologies for
which they are well known, providing the
agility and responsiveness of a smaller,
autonomous business unit. The Group
maintains its development focus on the eight
segments that it understands well while
reviewing markets for new opportunities
where Ultra can apply its existing technology
edge or explore a sensible adjacency. 
Where we operate
Ultra’s core regional markets remain North
America and the United Kingdom. In mainland
Europe the Group focuses on technologies
that are unavailable from indigenous suppliers
(e.g. sonobuoys). Elsewhere in the world the
Group has developed its strategic positioning
on its target regions of Australia, the Middle
East, India, Turkey and (for non-defence
products) China, while continuing to pursue
individual opportunities and business
relationships in many other nations. These
core markets and target regions allow Ultra to
access the largest addressable defence and
security budgets in the world, positioning for
long-term growth through well-considered
partnerships and government relationships.
Given Ultra’s relatively low exposure to
mainland Europe, a potential UK Exit from the
EU (Brexit) is not expected to have a
significant specific impact on the Group,
notwithstanding any global macroeconomic
impact.
Ultra’s customers
This market position, together with Ultra’s
independence, allows it to work very
effectively with the world’s prime contractors
in the Group’s chosen markets. The graphic
below shows the major customers for the
Group’s 2015 revenue. Within these top
customers, such as the US Department of
Defense (DoD), the UK Ministry of Defence
(MoD) and BAE Systems, the Group supplies
to a wide range of different project ofﬁces,
integrated project teams and platform teams.
Therefore, Ultra deals with a larger number of
different partners and customers than the
graphic might at ﬁrst suggest, executing
against tens of thousands of contracts and
production orders on an annual basis.
*see footnote on page 136
Aerospace
Infrastructure
Nuclear
Communications
C2ISR*
Command & Control, Intelligence
Surveillance and Reconnaissance
Ultra’s Cyber capabilities sit primarily in C2ISR and
Communications, but run across all eight segments
*
Underwater Warfare
Maritime
Land
During 2015 Ultra has reorganised to deliver and report its
performance through three divisions: Aerospace & Infrastrucure,
Communications & Security and Maritime & Land. Ultra’s
divisions deliver specialist capabilities to our key end markets of
Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, Transport and Energy. The
Group addresses these end markets through eight distinct market
segments, discussed on pages 12 to 21.
Group at a glance
How and where Ultra operates
02 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Read more on page 21                 
Read more on page 20                 
Read more on page 19                 
Read more on page 18                 
Read more on page 17                 
Read more on page 16                  
Read more on page 15                  
Read more on page 14                  
Revenue by region
1 United Kingdom 29
2 North America 47
3 Mainland Europe 10
4 Rest of the world 14
% of Group revenue
1
2
3
4
5 10 15 20 25 % 30
US DoD
UK MoD
BAESystems
Lockheed Martin
Boeing
Rolls Royce
Airbus
Level 3 for US Navy
AustralianDoD
EDFEnergy
USATF
Thales
UTC
GeneralDynamics
Raytheon
