 In 2013 the business continued to build  
on the positive momentum of recent years. 
EPRA adjusted earnings per share increased 
to 18.0 pence, 13.6 pence excluding the 
UCC performance fee (201 2: 9.9 pence), 
and adjusted NAV per share (fully diluted) 
rose 9. 1% to 382 pence from 350 pence a 
year earlier. We are declaring a final dividend 
of 3.2 pence per share (201 2: 3.0 pence), 
making 4.8 pence for the full year (201 2: 4.0 
pence), a 20% rise. Including dividends, the 
business delivered a total return on equity  
of 10.5% for the year.
Importantly, the business’ performance has been  
based on continued improvements to service levels  
which further enhance our brand. Our most recent service 
satisfaction surveys again saw an increase to highest 
ever levels and we have clear plans in place to build  
on this further in 2014.
Alongside the delivery of a strong financial performance 
we also achieved a number of important milestones 
which will underpin growth in the coming years. We 
have transformed our capital base and created the 
capacity to expand our portfolio, further strengthened 
our operating platform and brand and grown our secured 
development pipeline meaningfully. All of these things 
give us confidence that our growth and performance 
are sustainable.
The basis of our continued progress remains our dedicated 
teams of people throughout the business. I would like to 
congratulate them on their achievements in 2013 and 
thank them for their continued significant contribution.
At Board level, Liz McMeikan joined us as a Non-
Executive Director in February 2014 and Richard Walker, 
who acts as Chair of both the Remuneration and Health 
and Safety Committees, will retire at the next AGM after 
nine years’ valued service. I would like to thank Richard for 
his contribution throughout his time on the Board and  
warmly welcome Liz.
Our market outlook is the most encouraging it has  
been for a number of years. Government policy is clearly 
supportive of increasing University enrolment, from which 
our investment portfolio and development pipeline are 
well positioned to benefit, and we are currently seeing 
little sign of inflationary pressure to our key input costs. 
We remain conscious of the risks inherent in a fragile 
economic recovery but look forward with optimism.
Phil White CBE
Chairman 
6 March 2014
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement 
Working in partnership 
4 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
1420-1 UNITE AR_1.Strategic_v14.indd   4 02/04/2014   17:59 Phil White
Chairman
Mark Allan
Chief Executive
Joe Lister
Chief Financial Officer
Richard Simpson
MD of Property
Richard Smith
MD of Operations
Manjit Wolstenholme
Senior Independent Director
Elizabeth McMeikan
Non-Executive Director
Richard Walker
Non-Executive Director
Professor Sir Tim Wilson
Non-Executive Director
Andrew Jones
Non-Executive Director
Committed to good governance
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance at 
UNITE and believe it is central to the continued strong performance 
and sustainable growth of the business, and to maintaining the 
confidence of our shareholders. For us, good governance is about 
responsible and effective management of the business in a way 
which demonstrates honesty, transparency and accountability.
In 2013, our Board adopted the revisions to the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, introduced in September 2012 and also the 
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Regulations 2013. 
See page 50 for the Chairman’s introduction to governance.
Board breakdown 
■
■
■ 
Chairman 1
Executive 4
Non-Executive 5
A diverse workforce
UNITE has a culturally-diverse customer base and we value 
diversity among our employees at all levels. Our aim is that our 
workforce will be truly representative of all sections of society  
and each employee will feel respected and able to give their best.
See page 49 for UNITE’s diversity policy.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
Strategic report 
Corporate governance 
Financial statements 
Other information
1420-1 UNITE AR_1.Strategic_v14.indd   5 02/04/2014   17:59
