 22027.04      4 June 2015 6:19 AM      Proof 4
Chairman’s and Chief Executive  
Officer’s statement
Customers
Customer satisfaction remains 
a priority and we were the most 
improved water company over the 
2010–15 regulatory period. Our 
improvements have helped reduce 
further the number of customers 
who need to contact us about the 
service they receive by around  75 
per cent over the five-year period. 
We continually review the causes of 
customer dissatisfaction and revise 
our training, policies, processes 
and systems to drive improvement. 
We were pleased that our improved 
customer satisfaction performance 
over the period took us out of Ofwat’s 
service incentive mechanism (SIM) 
penalty zone, thereby also benefiting 
shareholders. 
Ofwat will change the process it uses 
to assess customer satisfaction 
during the next five-year regulatory 
period. This new SIM measure has been 
piloted over the last 12 months and has 
helped us identify that, while customer 
satisfaction with our services is 
continually improving, we could do 
better in keeping customers informed 
whilst we are resolving their issue. 
This will be a key area of focus for 
us in continuing to deliver improving 
satisfaction.
Modern customer relationship 
management (CRM) systems can offer 
a much improved customer experience 
as well as efficiencies in customer-
facing operations. We were pleased to 
receive Ofwat’s support for our plan 
to invest in a new CRM system in the 
2015–20 period and we are already 
in the detailed design phase before 
implementation.
Our assets
The reliable and efficient operation of 
our assets is critical to both customer 
service and our environmental 
performance. 
Targeted investment in our assets, 
processes and the people who operate 
them has supported an improvement 
in our environmental performance as 
measured by the Environment Agency 
(EA), positioning us again as one of the 
best performers in our sector. 
The last 12 month 
period was the fifth 
and final year of the 
2010–15 regulatory 
period. Our objective 
over this period was to 
deliver improved and 
sustainable underlying 
performance for the 
benefit of customers, 
the environment and 
shareholders. We are 
pleased to report that 
we achieved this. 
We were the most 
improved water 
company for customer 
satisfaction over 
2010–15
We invested
£3.8bn
in the renewal and upgrade 
of our assets across the 
last five years
Steve Mogford Chief Executive Officer and  Dr John McAdam Chairman
UNITED UTILITIES GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS 2015
Stock Code: UU.
unitedutilities.com 
06 22027.04      4 June 2015 6:19 AM      Proof 4
Performance against indices used by 
the Drinking Water Inspectorate (DWI) 
to measure water quality has also 
improved and we achieved our best 
ever performance over the last year. 
Asset serviceability was assessed as 
stable or improving over the last 12 
months, representing a significant and 
sustained improvement since the start 
of the 2010–15 regulatory period. 
We were delighted to outperform our 
leakage target for the year – the ninth 
successive year in which we have met 
or beaten our target.
The improvements made early in 
the 2010–15 regulatory period to 
our project and risk management 
processes have supported the 
successful delivery of our capital 
programme. We invested a substantial 
£3.8 billion in the renewal and upgrade 
of our assets across the last five years, 
with over £850 million invested over 
the last 12 months. We measure the 
effectiveness of our investment using 
our Time, Cost and Quality index for 
which we scored 97 per cent this year 
– ahead of our targets and consistent 
with the good performance of the 
previous year. 
We have already invested around £40 
million to accelerate project delivery 
relating to schemes due to be delivered 
early in the 2015–20 period and to 
secure associated benefits. 
A difficult economic environment
Although unemployment in the 
North West has reduced over the 
last 12 months, our region has the 
highest proportion of disadvantaged 
households in England and therefore 
customer indebtedness continues to 
be a significant challenge for us.
Our collections team continues to work 
hard to contain bad debt levels. During 
the year we implemented data sharing 
with the credit reference agency 
‘Experian’ and this is helping to identify 
those customers who could pay their 
bill but choose not to. For those 
struggling to pay, we continue to offer 
a wide range of ways to help them back 
into regular payment. This includes 
an independently administered trust 
fund for which we increased our annual 
contribution using a cash tax refund 
from HMRC. We also gained customer 
support to launch a social tariff for 
those customers who receive Pension 
Credit.
Business retail
Having secured a retail licence in 2012, 
we have been a leading competitor in 
the Scottish business retail market 
securing over 200 customers, covering 
over 2,800 sites, and representing 
future annual revenue of £15 million. 
During this period we have seen the 
number of active market participants 
increase to around 18 and as a 
consequence, pricing is becoming 
increasingly competitive. We continue 
to bid selectively for profitable 
business where our value-added 
solutions offer benefits to customers.
The Water Act 2014 confirmed plans 
to open the English business retail 
market for water and wastewater 
services in 2017. Our experience of 
the Scottish business retail market is 
invaluable ahead of the English market 
opening and work is in hand to prepare 
our business retail and wholesale 
teams to address this development. We 
are actively engaged in the creation of 
a market operating company that will 
govern and facilitate  the switching of 
their retailer by business customers.
Strategy
Our Strategic Direction Statement, 
‘Playing our part to support the North 
West’ reflects extensive consultation 
with customers and other stakeholders 
to create our best view of what the 
next 25 years holds for our region. 
This includes economic, social and 
environmental developments such as 
the predicted impact of climate change. 
Our recently updated Water Resources 
Management Plan, which describes the 
projected pattern of water resource 
activity in our region until 2040, was 
approved by the Secretary of State 
in February 2015. This plan projects 
that the majority of the North West 
will be in surplus, benefiting from an 
integrated network that supports 
movement of water around the region 
to accommodate its changing supply 
and demand balance. Our plan includes 
a new Thirlmere pipeline to extend our 
integrated network to encompass West 
Cumbria. This will reduce abstraction 
from Ennerdale, thus protecting 
sensitive ecology, and improve security 
of supply for customers. 
As a lone agent, United Utilities could 
not deliver the scale of required 
environmental improvement at an 
acceptable level of cost. Instead we are 
committed to partnering with others 
who can support the achievement 
of our required outcomes – such as 
our ‘Turning tides’ partnership with 
the EA, local authorities, the Marine 
Conservation Society and other 
interested parties to improve bathing 
waters in the North West.
UNITED UTILITIES GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS 2015
Stock Code: UU.
unitedutilities.com 
07
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT 22027.04      4 June 2015 6:19 AM      Proof 4
Chairman’s and Chief Executive  
Officer’s statement
Price Review
The 2015–20 Price Review 
represented a significant departure 
from previous reviews and proved to be 
a demanding period for both companies 
and regulators. Building on some of the 
changes introduced in the Water Act 
2014, the Price Review introduced:
•	 significantly enhanced customer 
consultation on the content and 
pricing of companies’ business 
plans;
•	 a new pricing structure involving 
four price caps: business retail, 
domestic retail, wholesale water and 
wholesale wastewater;
•	 new outcome delivery incentives 
(ODIs) providing penalties or 
rewards for company performance 
in aspects of its performance 
identified by customers as a 
priority; 
•	 a new SIM measure providing 
continuing focus on customer 
satisfaction; and
•	 preparation for full opening of 
the retail market for business 
customers. 
In formulating our 2015–20 business 
plan, we sought the views of over 
27,000 customers, as well as the 
views of our regulators and other 
stakeholders, to shape a plan that 
strikes the right balance for all our 
stakeholders. We worked closely 
with our regulators over the last 
year and our final plan resubmission 
in October 2014 took account of 
Ofwat’s upper-quartile efficiency 
targets across many aspects of our 
operations. Ofwat’s final determination 
in December represented a further 
efficiency challenge of £188 million, 
in the context of a wholesale total 
expenditure (totex) allowance of £5.3 
billion. Whilst challenging to deliver, the 
final determination has not required 
us to revisit the key components of our 
business plan.
In the final analysis, the board 
considered Ofwat’s proposal tough but,  
on balance, acceptable and confirmed 
its acceptance in January 2015.
Attractive to shareholders
We set out to deliver improved 
performance for customers and 
shareholders over the last five-year 
period. We delivered for both sets of 
stakeholders with improved customer 
satisfaction, better underlying 
operational performance and effective 
capital programme management. 
Revenue increased by 1.9 per cent to 
£1.72 billion and underlying operating 
profit was up 4.7 per cent to £664 
million. Underlying earnings per share 
increased by 16 per cent to 51.9 pence. 
We exceeded our outperformance 
targets for the five years, supporting 
our dividend growth target throughout 
the period and building dividend 
cover as we approached the changes 
introduced in the 2015–20 Price Review. 
The board is proposing a final dividend of 
25.14 pence per ordinary share, making 
a total of 37.70 pence per ordinary 
share for the 2014/15 financial year. 
Pictured: Our new £1.5 million purpose-built 
technical training centre in Bolton is part of 
our training and apprenticeship programme 
to source the next generation of water 
engineers. Facilities include mechanical and 
electrical workshops, a laboratory and a 
mock sewer system, with around 70 trainees 
attending each day.
Sharing success
We have sought to share the benefits 
of our improvements over the last 
five years between customers, the 
environment and shareholders. 
Around £200 million of capital 
savings has been reinvested in 
projects that deliver benefits to 
customers or the environment. 
We have also used a portion of our 
financing outperformance to support 
our private sewer network.
We received a cash tax refund 
from HMRC in 2013/14 and we 
have committed to share this with 
customers. We provided a special 
customer discount in 2014/15 
of around £20 million and have 
committed further support to help 
customers struggling to pay their 
bills.
Our customers are set to benefit 
from both continued significant 
levels of investment and below 
inflation growth in average 
household bills for the decade to 
2020.
UNITED UTILITIES GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS 2015
Stock Code: UU.
unitedutilities.com 
08 22027.04      4 June 2015 6:19 AM      Proof 4
This represents an increase of 4.6 
per cent compared with last year. The 
final dividend is expected to be paid to 
shareholders on 3 August 2015.
In accepting our final determination, 
the board approved a policy of 
maintaining the existing level of 
dividend and targeting a growth rate of 
at least RPI inflation each year through 
to 2020.
To support the retention of a robust 
capital structure, we aim to maintain 
efficient access to debt capital 
markets throughout the economic 
cycle. The board believes that it is 
appropriate to keep gearing, measured 
as net debt to regulatory capital value, 
within our existing target range of 55 
to 65 per cent. We also aim to maintain, 
as a minimum, our existing credit 
ratings of A3 with Moody’s and BBB+ 
with Standard & Poor’s for United 
Utilities Water Limited.
2015–20 performance
We are focused on continuous 
improvement and our new operating 
model for our wholesale business is 
employing technology and new work 
processes to deliver enhanced customer 
satisfaction and operational efficiency. 
Measurement of our progress across 
the next five years will use a mix of 
existing and new measures, which 
reflect the revised structure and 
features of this price control.  This 
forthcoming period will see a greater 
emphasis on operational excellence as a 
means of earning financial rewards.
We expect that our environmental 
and water quality regulators, the 
EA and the DWI respectively, will 
continue to use a basket of established 
measures to assess our performance. 
New for the next period is a revised 
SIM measure and a series of ODIs, 
to which are attached penalties and 
rewards. We will also focus more on 
total expenditure, rather than on the 
individual measures of opex and capex , 
in line with Ofwat’s move to this way of 
assessing costs. 
We have refined our key performance 
indicators (KPIs) for the 2015–20 
period, which will recognise the 
tougher operational and financial 
targets inherent in the final 
determination settlement. We do 
not intend to set targets for the 
2015–20 period until we have more 
experience of operating under the 
new arrangements. However, more 
detail of these KPIs is provided within 
this report on pages 50 and 51 and 
we intend to publish our performance 
annually.
Responsible business
Our aim is to operate in an 
environmentally sustainable, 
economically beneficial and socially 
responsible manner. In recognition 
of this focus, we retained our ‘World 
Class’ rating as measured by the Dow 
Jones Sustainability Index, achieving 
industry leading status in the multi-
utility/water sector in the most recent 
assessment.
We are delighted to have led a 
North West pilot for the Energy and 
Efficiency Industrial Partnership, 
backed by UK Skills, in which we 
leveraged our investment in a new 
apprentice skills training facility 
in Bolton to help young people find 
employment. The programme involves 
skills training, interview technique and 
work experience and early trials have 
shown an over 60 per cent success rate 
in finding full-time employment for 
participants. Following the success of 
the pilot, the programme is now being 
rolled out across the UK. 
Our employees
None of our progress over the last 
12 months would have been achieved 
without the enthusiasm and commitment 
of the people who work for United 
Utilities – both our employees and those 
working for our sub-contracting partners 
that represent us in the field. We would 
like to thank them for their dedication 
and hard work in supporting customers 
and the environment every day of the 
year.
We work hard to sustain high levels of 
engagement by our employees. The 
company has seen significant change 
over the last four years and our plans 
will engage our teams for further 
improvements. Employee engagement 
is 79 per cent, well above the UK 
transitional norm and just below the 
norm for high performing UK companies.
Health and safety remains a key focus 
area. This year we placed greater 
emphasis on the ‘health’ component with 
investment in a new gym at our main 
office, along with measures to assist our 
employees in assessing their health and 
in securing faster access to treatment 
should it be necessary.
Our board
We strive to operate in a manner that 
reflects the highest standards of 
corporate governance. Our company 
structure and governance standards 
are designed to ensure that our 
board continues to provide sound and 
prudent governance in compliance with 
the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. 
We are pleased to welcome Lord 
Stephen Carter to the board following 
his appointment in September 2014 as 
an independent non-executive director. 
Stephen is Chief Executive at Informa 
plc and his operational expertise and 
previous public services roles will be an 
asset to the board.
Outlook
We are encouraged by our operational 
and customer service performance 
improvements and believe we can 
improve further. Substantial investment 
in our assets will continue, delivering 
additional benefits for our customers 
and the environment. We have made 
significant and sustained performance 
improvements over the last five years 
and, combined with our ‘systems 
thinking’ approach to operating the 
business, this provides a solid foundation 
for the future.
Dr John McAdam 
Chairman
Steve Mogford 
Chief Executive 
Officer
The strategic report on pages 4 to 55 was approved at a meeting of the board on 20 May 2015 and signed off on its 
behalf by Steve Mogford, Chief Executive Officer.
UNITED UTILITIES GROUP PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STA TEMENTS 2015
Stock Code: UU.
unitedutilities.com 
09
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
