 Strategic
report
Corporate 
governance and
Directors’ reports
Financial
statements
Additional
information
13
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
www.vedantaresources.com http://sustainabledevelopment.
vedantaresources.com
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Making progress against our  
strategic priorities.
We have continued to focus on 
improving our operational performance 
and enhancing production, delivering 
record volumes of zinc and aluminium, 
and delivering free cash flow in volatile 
commodity markets.
Tom Albanese, Chief Executive Officer
At the end of my first year as Chief Executive, 
I am pleased with the progress we have made 
against the key operational priorities I set last year 
and the continued momentum of the Company 
towards its strategic objectives, against the 
backdrop of volatile global commodity markets.
Progress against operational priorities
The highlights for the year include the ramping up 
of our world-class aluminium assets, following the 
approximate US$8 billion investment programme, 
to reach record production levels. We are now 
well positioned for an accelerated growth in 2016 
with progressive ramp up of the new smelters at 
Korba and Jharsuguda. The total mined metal 
production for zinc and lead also reached a 
historic high, supported by strong performance 
of the Rampura Agucha mine, one of the largest 
and lowest cost zinc mines in the world.  14 Strategic report We are Vedanta
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
0
FY
04
FY
05
FY
06
FY
07
FY
08
FY
09
FY
10
FY
11
FY
12
FY
13
FY
14
FY
15
2,000
1,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
  Consistent margins driven by diversiﬁcation
  EBITDA by segment (US$m)
1
Zinc-Lead
Aluminium
Copper EBITDA
margin
1
Oil & Gas
Iron Ore
Power
0
FY2014 FY2015 FY2016e
original
FY2016e
revised
1.0
0.5
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
  Optimising capex to drive cash ﬂow generation
  (US$bn)
2
Oil & Gas
1
Zinc capex
M&M capex
2
Free cash ﬂow
3
1  Capex net to Cairn India; subject to Government 
 of India approval.
2  M&M refers to metals and mining and power, excludes zinc; 
 excludes capex on Lanjigarh reﬁnery expansion and 
 Tuticorin smelter.
3 Free cash ﬂow after sustaining capex but before growth capex.
The year also saw significant progress being 
made in development of underground mines 
at Rampura Agucha and Sindesar Khurd (SK). 
Our Oil & Gas business delivered a robust 
performance with Mangala and Aishwariya 
fields performing as expected, and strong 
contributions coming from offshore assets. 
Our Oil & Gas business will now reap the benefits 
from the high-impact Enhanced Oil Recovery 
(EOR) project in Rajasthan. Looking ahead, 
increasing gas production in the Raageshwari 
Deep Gas field and development at Barmer Hill 
will continue to provide us with growth options.
Though our copper smelter in India recorded 
the highest-ever production and best-in-class 
operational efficiencies during the year, the 
turnaround at Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) in 
Zambia continues to present challenges. Volumes 
and ore grade were lower at the Nchanga mine 
complex and the rehabilitation programme of 
shafts have affected production in Konkola Deeps. 
However, with the new management team and 
operating strategy in place, we have already 
started seeing positive momentum in the last 
quarter. While it was disappointing that iron ore 
mining at Goa did not resume last year, this has 
had less of a material impact due to decline in 
iron ore prices globally. We have made some 
progress on this front during the year. Mining in 
Karnataka resumed in February 2015 and we 
have been allocated an interim annual capacity 
of 5.5mt of saleable ore in Goa where mining 
is expected to recommence post the monsoon 
season, after receipt of the remaining approvals 
from the Government. Export duty has now 
been reduced to 10% for <58% grade iron ore. 
Market environment
The volatility of global commodity prices has 
dampened our financial results, and this has 
slowed down the pace of our deleveraging 
programme. That said, I was pleased to 
see reduction in our gross and net debt in 
the second half, despite lower oil prices.
Recognising the current commodity environment 
we are implementing a series of initiatives 
to reduce capital and operating costs across 
all our businesses to maintain financial 
strength and a strong balance sheet. 
Looking forward we see demand and supply 
rebalancing with more robust pricing as a 
consequence. China’s slowdown is moving 
to a more sustainable level of growth and 
Vedanta’s position as low-cost operator of 
long-life mines will serve it well as global 
demand returns to more normal levels.
As a non-Indian, I had the privilege of being in 
India during the election campaign and I have 
great expectations that the new government will 
get India’s economy up and running, in contrast 
to the slowdown in China and stagnation in 
Europe. The pace of change has inevitably been 
slower than the early optimism suggested but 
progress on coal and energy policies and clarity 
on iron ore mining are encouraging. The step 
towards the auction of coal blocks, which we 
participated in, is a critical part of the journey 
to make India self-sufficient in coal. Today, 
India is one of the largest importers of coal, 
despite its huge reserves, and coal must be a key 
feature of the Government’s energy strategy.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
 1 Diversified portfolio
A broad natural resources portfolio 
diversified across base metals,  
bulks and Oil & Gas has delivered 
consistent EBITDA margins in excess 
of 30% over the past 11 years.
1 Margins exclude custom 
smelting at Copper and Zinc 
India operations.
 2 Cash flow and growth capex 
In a volatile commodity price 
environment, Vedanta is revising 
capex downwards and prioritising 
capital to high-return, low-risk 
projects. This will maximise cash 
flows, giving the flexibility to invest 
further as oil prices improve. Strategic
report
Corporate 
governance and
Directors’ reports
Financial
statements
Additional
information
15
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
www.vedantaresources.com http://sustainabledevelopment.
vedantaresources.com
Vedanta is well-
positioned to meet 
India’s need for 
commodities, while 
operating at global 
standards of 
sustainable 
development.
Licence to operate
Safety has been a key priority at Vedanta  
as it is a weak link in our otherwise robust 
sustainability programme. The best businesses  
are the safest businesses and there has been a 
marked improvement in our results this year. 
Although I am encouraged by our progress,  
I am saddened by eight fatalities and there 
remains much more to do on our journey  
towards achieving a ‘Zero Harm’ culture.
My personal focus is on raising the levels 
of safety consciousness across the Group 
and ensuring that we invest more in safety 
management alongside raising standards, 
expectations and accountabilities.
Maintaining our licence to operate is at the 
heart of the Group strategy and essential 
for our access to resources, people and 
capital. I am a firm believer that being a 
responsible miner is critical to a sustainable 
future and our corporate social responsibility 
(CSR) programme must be world class.
In my first year as CEO, I have been struck by 
the sheer breadth and depth of our community 
development initiatives. We have very strong 
CSR programmes around child health care and 
education, water, sanitation, livelihood and the 
empowerment of women. The sector is now 
increasingly seeing ethics and integrity overlapping 
with the sustainable development agenda, and 
so we have added Strategic Communication 
as a fourth pillar to our sustainability model, 
to ensure transparent dialogue with our 
stakeholders. This reflects our commitment 
to become a corporate citizen who will not act 
without the consent of local communities.
Our long-term success is only partly attributable 
to our core facilities; people, performance and 
innovation are all equally important. This year 
we have made great strides in water and energy 
management, with various improvement initiatives 
including enhanced operating efficiencies resulting 
in water and energy savings surpassing our targets.
It is critical to our success that we have the 
highest quality of workforce and I have been 
incredibly impressed by the professional capability 
and leadership ability demonstrated by our 
employees – from our recent graduates to our 
senior executives. We have set up an innovation 
task force as part of our drive to encourage 
innovation across our business units. This includes 
the engineers within the Group and will extend 
to universities and other avenues. We have also 
invigorated the initiatives for developing high 
potential talents through our ‘ACT UP’ and Leaders 
Connect Programmes, to create leadership 
succession at all levels across the organisation.
Progress against strategic priorities
Our key strategic priorities remain unchanged. We 
have ramped up production and optimised opex 
and capex across our businesses and reduced 
gross debt by US$0.2 billion (US$16.7 billion in 
FY2015). We continue to focus on optimising 
our assets, maintaining positive free cash flows, 
efficiently refinancing upcoming maturities 
and deliver on our priority of deleveraging. 
The long-life nature of our resource base underpins 
our track record of adding more to our reserves 
and resources (R&R) than we extract and we 
continue to use our exploration skills to expand 
the potential of our ore bodies and petroleum 
reservoirs going forward. As we can only book 
reserves against the duration of our leases and 
our current oil & gas lease in Rajasthan expires 
in 2020, our oil & gas reserve schedule does 
not accurately reflect the strong exploration 
success and potential of the Rajasthan basin. 
The renewal of this lease is currently under 
consideration by the Government of India.
I acknowledge shareholder feedback that we 
need to simplify Vedanta’s Group structure 
and we intend to put greater focus on this in 
the coming year to make Vedanta easier to 
understand and more attractive to invest in. 
Looking forward
There is much to do on the operational front in 
FY2016; to move aluminium above its current 
operating level of 38% capacity, secure a local 
source of bauxite for our refineries and smelters, 
stabilise KCM, restart iron ore mining in Goa, 
and ensure our Oil & Gas business is positioned 
for robust performance notwithstanding weak 
oil prices. We need to continue strengthening 
our balance sheet through further deleveraging 
and delivering a simpler corporate structure.
We will continue to have a relentless focus on 
costs alongside rising capacity utilisation thus 
driving value growth. Looking forward over 
the next few years, we expect the worst of the 
sector oversupply to be behind us and Vedanta 
will be well placed to take advantage of future 
growth in India and globally, as a premier 
developer and innovator of choice. This will 
position the Company and its shareholders for 
a long period of profitable value creation.
Tom Albanese
Chief Executive Officer
13 May 2015
