 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS  
FOR FUTURE GROWTH
Delivering our strategy
This has been another year of significant progress for Vectura. 
Our revenue continues to grow, driven by increasing royalty 
income as our partnered products continue their global roll-out, 
and I am very proud that we have reported a maiden profit after 
tax for this year. Our business focus continues to optimise return 
on investment in our development pipeline. At our interim results 
in November 2014, we announced we had evaluated the strategic 
perspectives of our business through a thorough evaluation of our 
development portfolio, maintaining alignment with the evolution 
of our business model. This resulted in a prioritisation of our R&D 
expenditure, with an emphasis on attaining value inflection points 
within our strategic horizon to 2021. Vectura has become an 
established expert and ‘partner of choice’ in the development of 
products for airways diseases. This can be seen from the products 
that have already been brought to market by our partners and the 
development and partnership deals that we have announced over 
the last twelve months. Leveraging value from the Company’s 
technologies, via our own projects with partners, is critical for 
Vectura to deliver its strategic goal.
Our operational performance
At the start of the year, the US launch of Anoro
®
 Ellipta
®
 by GSK 
triggered a milestone payment to Vectura associated with our 
licence agreement. Two further milestone payments were received 
for VR315 US, illustrating the continued progress being made in the 
development of this asset, a major component of our high value 
respiratory generic portfolio in the US. Extending this successful 
collaboration, we announced a US licence agreement for our product 
VR506 with the same, undisclosed US partner. This is an important 
step for the development of VR506 and provides additional third-party 
validation of our expertise and know-how in the development 
of inhaled drug assets.
Last year also saw the publication of Phase IIb/III trial results for 
Vectura’s wholly owned, investigational drug/device combination 
VR475 EU. A further clinical trial will commence in the middle of 2015.
We had a successful start to this calendar year when, in January, 
Vectura signed a global development and licence agreement with 
Janssen, utilising Vectura’s formulation technology/device platform 
offerings in a deal that comprises upfront and development milestones 
and a tiered royalty on net sales. In addition, Novartis, announced it 
had completed US FDA submissions for QVA149 and NVA237, which 
were subsequently accepted, triggering significant milestones for 
Vectura. Novartis expects US FDA action in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We now have a strong platform 
to take Vectura to the next phase 
of its journey to become a specialty 
pharmaceutical company. Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 09
Strategic report
Products, pipeline and R&D
Our pipeline review prioritised our portfolio and aligned our resources 
to ensure that our investment in R&D is measured, controlled, realises 
value near term and is supportive of our strategy.
Our near-term priorities are to:
• accelerate the overall value of our existing pipeline; and
• demonstrate value realisation in our pipeline within our strategic 
horizon to 2021.
The development focus of the Group will change over time towards 
value realisation from later-stage products and revenue-generating 
opportunities in the near term, exemplified by the Janssen deal.
Working in partnerships
Our aim, to develop long-term business alliances, continues 
with a new co-development partnership established with Janssen 
in January 2015. During the year, existing collaborations with partners 
including Sandoz and Novartis continued to develop and now show 
strong revenue streams. We are focused on cementing and developing 
all our key relationships by ensuring that management and governance 
of the partnerships is effective, long-term value is delivered and 
Vectura further develops its reputation as a partner of choice.
Organisational changes
As a result of the enlarged organisation and as we implement our 
corporate strategic and operational plans, the Company announced 
some significant management changes in January. Andrew Oakley 
joined Vectura as Chief Financial Officer and Company Secretary 
and Executive Board Director and we also welcomed Joanne Hombal, 
who joined as Director of Human Resources and a member of the 
Executive Management Team.
Post-period, in April, we announced that we would be transferring 
all activities from our Gemünden site to the remaining three 
Vectura facilities. The Gemünden site will be closed by March 2016. 
The acquisition of Activaero GmbH provided Vectura with people and 
technologies that will help shape the future of Vectura. To that end, 
I would like to express our sincere gratitude to Gerhard Scheuch, 
who will leave Vectura on 31 July 2015, leaving behind a positive 
legacy upon which the Company can build.
Our people
I am very proud of the quality and dedication of our people. 
I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to 
all employees of the Group, past and present, for their commitment 
and hard work. In February this year, I announced that, after more 
than twelve years at Vectura, eleven of those as Chief Executive, 
I would step down to take on new challenges, confident in the 
legacy and team that takes Vectura to new heights. I am intensely 
proud of what has been achieved over the past twelve years and 
would like to thank all our stakeholders for their support.
Outlook
After another year of significant progress, we are in a strong 
position to continue to implement our business model and strategy. 
We are confident that this strategy will enable us to continue to 
build on the existing platform and ultimately deliver a successful 
specialty pharmaceutical business.
Dr Chris Blackwell
Chief Executive
19 May 2015 *  To view the original source for all footnotes, 
please refer to page 116.
Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 10
OUR MARKETS AND OPPORTUNITIES
EXCITING PROSPECTS  
IN A GROWING MARKET
Our markets
Our current addressable market falls into six  
main indications in airways-related diseases
Market need
Asthma is a heterogeneous, chronic inflammatory airways disease 
that is characterised by variable respiratory symptoms, recurrent 
episodes of reversible expiratory airflow limitation and episodic 
acute exacerbations of symptoms. In recent years it has become 
clear that asthma can be the result of a range of inflammatory 
changes which can be addressed by different therapeutic interventions. 
An unmet need remains, particularly in the treatment of severe 
or ‘difficult-to-control asthma’.
Market opportunity
Vectura works, alone and in partnerships, on anti-inflammatory 
programmes across the spectrum of asthma encompassing generic 
single therapy (VR506), combination therapy (AirFluSal
®
 Forspiro
®
, 
VR315US, VR632), severe asthma (VR475, VR588) and paediatric 
asthma (VR647) utilising its proprietary formulation and device 
inhalation technology to develop new and cutting-edge solutions 
to meet the need for effective, patient-focused control of asthma.
Asthma
1
• It is suffered by approximately 250 million subjects worldwide
 
and its incidence is growing
1
• WHO forecasts a further 100 million suffers by 2025
1
Market need
COPD is a progressive, poorly reversible obstructive airways disease of 
airflow limitation typically caused by toxic particle inhalation. Smoking is 
the major cause, but biomass smoke and industrial noxious particulates 
or gases also cause the condition by triggering a chronic inflammatory 
response in the airways and the lungs. Symptoms are dyspnoea 
(shortness of breath), cough, mucus production and exercise limitation. 
Patients often experience infection-driven exacerbations of symptoms 
which speed up decline of lung function
2
.
Market opportunity
There is no cure for COPD so treatment is centred on control 
of symptoms via the use of bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory 
agents. Vectura has been at the forefront of the latest generation 
of bronchodilator development via its collaboration with Novartis in 
the development of NVA237 now approved as Seebri
®
 Breezhaler
®
 
and QVA149 approved as Ultibro
®
 Breezhaler
®
.
Chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease (COPD)
2
• COPD is currently the fourth biggest killer worldwide
3
• WHO estimates that currently 64 million people have COPD 
and that COPD will become the third leading cause of death 
worldwide by 2030
3
• Chronic lower respiratory disease, primarily COPD, was the third 
leading cause of death in the United States in 2011
4
Statistics
Generic Partnered Partnered 
Branded Wholly owned
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
Branded Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 11
Strategic report
Market need
Infection with the influenza virus is a well-recognised phenomenon 
because of its annual occurrence around the world. It represents a 
major target of anti-infective strategy (both vaccination and treatment) 
in many countries
5
. The young, old and sick are at most risk from 
influenza and are the target of therapeutic approaches available 
(vaccination and anti-viral treatment), all of which have their 
limitations to efficacy
6,7
.
Market opportunity
Vectura’s VR736 programme is investigating the role of an approved 
drug with novel anti-viral effects when delivered as a nebulised 
formulation using proprietary Vectura delivery technology in patients 
with severe influenza infections that have resulted in hospitalisation. 
An ongoing Phase II clinical trial is due to report out during 2015.
Influenza
3
• approximately 3–5 million cases worldwide of severe 
illness per annum
5
• approximately 250,000–500,000 deaths per annum
5
Market need
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a genetic, life-limiting disorder affecting a number  
of organ systems but with significant effects in the lungs. The genetic 
mutation affects a protein whose role is key in the production of mucus, 
sweat and digestive enzyme fluids, and results in those fluids becoming 
thick. In the lungs this results in accumulation of mucus and long-term 
issues include difficulty in breathing and coughing up sputum resulting 
from frequent lung infections. There remains no cure for CF, with all 
approved therapy directed at symptom reduction, e.g. physiotherapy, 
antibiotics and mucus thinning agents. Lung transplantation is an option 
in some circumstances.
Market opportunity
Vectura is engaged in partnership with the Spanish company 
Grifols in exploring the use of alpha-1 anti-trypsin for the treatment 
of CF (VR179).
Cystic fibrosis (CF)
4
•  Life expectancy is now between 35 and 50 where optimised 
treatment is available
8
•  In Europe and the USA the incidence of CF is in the order 
of 1 in 2,000–3,500 newborns
8
Partnered Partnered 
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
Branded Branded Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 12
OUR MARKETS AND OPPORTUNITIES continued
Population growth and rising wealth, 
particularly in developing economies, 
continue to expand the global market 
for pharmaceuticals.
Our markets continued
Statistics
Market need
PAH is the occurrence of raised pressure in the pulmonary artery 
caused by pathological changes that result in narrowing and 
thickening of the arterial wall and consequent impairment of 
blood flow through the lungs. Over time this leads to lowered 
body oxygen levels and cardiac failure.
Market opportunity
Current therapy options rely chiefly on a range of vasodilatory drugs, 
none of which are able to reverse progression. A small number of 
patients are suitable for lung transplantation. But there remains a 
large unmet need in the treatment of PAH.
Vectura’s collaboration in this area (VR876) seeks to improve on the 
delivery of a known, effective treatment by increasing the local delivery 
to the pulmonary vasculature using Vectura’s FOX™ technology.
Pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH)
6
• 15–50 patients/million population
10
• Five-year survival rates of 50–60%
11
Market need
RSV is a major cause of respiratory tract infections in infants. 
The virus is active globally. There remains a high unmet need 
for a more effective and conveniently delivered treatment.
Market opportunity
This need is the basis of the collaboration with Ablynx NV (VR465), 
in which Vectura is providing advanced nebulisation technology 
aimed at inhaled delivery of a novel treatment for RSV to infants.
Human respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV)
5
• 60% of US children are infected during their first winter season
9
• Nearly all children infected by the age of two
9
• Of those infected, 25–40% will develop signs of airway 
inflammation (bronchiolitis) and lung infection (pneumonia) 
with around 1–2% needing to be hospitalised
9
Product pipeline status Product pipeline status
*  To view the original source for all footnotes, 
please refer to page 116.
Partnered
Branded
Partnered 
Branded
Read more about our pipeline and each  
product phase in more detail on pages 30 to 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 13
Strategic report
Growth drivers
Population growth, increasing longevity and rising wealth, 
particularly in developing economies, continue to expand the 
global market for pharmaceuticals. In addition there are a number 
of specific factors affecting the market, in particular downward 
pressure on healthcare costs, regulatory challenges, legally controlled 
pricing, the cost of developing and protecting intellectual property 
and intensifying competition from generic products.
Expanding patient populations
The world population is expected to rise from its current level of some 
7bn, to reach 9.6bn by 2050
12
. In addition, the number of people 
who can access healthcare continues to increase, particularly 
among the elderly. Globally, it is estimated that between 2000 and 
2050 the number of people aged 60 years and over will increase 
from 605m to over 2bn
13
.
Unmet medical need
In most established markets, ageing populations and certain 
lifestyle choices such as smoking, poor diet and lack of exercise 
are increasing the incidence of non-communicable diseases, such 
as airways-related diseases, which require long-term management.
Advances in science and technology innovation are critical if we 
are to address unmet medical need. Existing drugs will continue 
to be important in meeting the growing demand for healthcare, 
particularly with the increasing use of generic medication. The use 
of large molecules, or biologics, has also become an important 
source of innovation, with biologics among the most commercially 
successful new products.
The respiratory market is dominated by a small number 
of companies. Inhalation products are complex dosage forms, 
which are challenging to develop within a strict global regulatory 
environment. Volume growth is expected to continue as demand 
in the developing world expands.
Vectura is one of only a few independent product development 
companies able to meet the challenges of the market for inhaled 
therapies to treat airways diseases. The Group has proven technologies 
and expertise in the development of inhalation products incorporating 
dry powder inhalers (both branded and generic) and smart inhalation 
systems utilising nebulisation.
Our position
The Group’s specialism and expertise in inhaled product development 
puts us in a good position to meet the regulatory requirements for 
successfully bringing to market branded and generic inhalation drugs. 
To optimise benefit to patients and maximise value from global 
opportunities, we are focusing on both the branded and generic 
respiratory product markets. Vectura has proprietary technology 
for a range of inhalation devices covering approximately 57% 
of the inhaled market in the G8 (US, Japan and EU5)
9
.
Dry powder inhalation (“DPI”) products for asthma and COPD 
generated sales in excess of $10bn
14
 a year in 2013 in the G8 
and is growing. Recent trends show increasing use of DPIs with the 
majority of the new products approved in the US since 2013 being 
DPI based. In total, 10 new inhaled asthma, COPD and cystic fibrosis 
products have been approved during this period – 6 DPIs, 3 pMDIs 
“pressurised metered dose inhaler”, and 1 nebulised.
The Group’s specialism and expertise in inhaled product 
development puts us in a good position to meet the regulatory 
requirements for successfully bringing to market branded and 
generic inhalation drugs. There are relatively few competitors 
working on complex, inhaled generic products, and new market 
opportunities are emerging that provide potential for growth.
*  To view the original source for all footnotes,  
please refer to page 116.
