 Vectura Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 06
 Delivering our maiden profit
Established platform to continue to deliver growth 
and value to shareholders
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear shareholder
I am delighted to introduce Vectura’s Annual Report for the financial 
year 2014/15. The Group has continued to build on the foundations 
put in place and has performed well against financial and non-financial 
KPIs. Importantly, this financial year has seen Vectura generate its 
maiden profit after tax as we move to a new phase for the Group 
based on sustainable growth and we are poised to generate 
significant cash flow per share.
Our business
During the year we completed a review of our portfolio, which has 
been prioritised and aligned to the strategy and which we believe 
will deliver maximum value capture in the period to 2021. Vectura’s 
journey to becoming a specialty pharmaceutical company was 
launched from a base of income generated from partnered products 
with a growing range of royalties contributing to an increased quality 
revenue mix; we have described this as our hybrid business model. 
This model builds on the partnering model we have pursued historically 
and foresees Vectura pursuing higher returns on investment, where 
possible, through co-development deals and self-commercialisation 
of focused, specialty pharmaceutical assets. The strategy aims 
to balance investment in growth opportunities with the delivery 
of higher returns. 
We have made significant progress during the year, completing the 
integration of Activaero GmbH which we acquired in March of last 
year. Following the acquisition, we have seen a significant increase 
in interest from third parties in our broader offering of pipeline 
products and inhalation technologies.
Governance
As a Board, we are committed to the principles of good corporate 
governance. Through our robust internal framework of systems 
and controls, we strive to maintain the highest standards.
Our strategy will create significant value 
for all stakeholders through developing 
and commercialising products with high 
unmet need.
Summary
THIS HAS BEEN A 
BREAKTHROUGH YEAR 
FOR VECTURA GROUP Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15 Vectura Group plc 07
Strategic report
Board
There were two important changes to the Executive Board during 
the year. In January, Andrew Oakley was appointed Chief Financial 
Officer and Company Secretary, replacing Paul Oliver. Andrew 
brings a wealth of experience to the Group. I would like to thank 
Paul for his eight years’ service with Vectura and I wish him well 
for the future. In February, after over twelve years of dedicated 
service to Vectura, Dr Chris Blackwell, Chief Executive, announced 
his intention to step down from this position. Chris will leave the 
Company at the end of June 2015.
On behalf of my Board colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank Chris for the dedication he has given to the Group and for 
the value he has created for our shareholders, over many years. 
Chris leaves the Group in a very strong position, with an experienced 
senior management team in place. The Company has engaged an 
external search firm to assist it to evaluate both internal and external 
candidates and the comprehensive search is making good progress. 
The Company hopes to be in a position to bring this to a successful 
conclusion in the near future. In order to ensure continuity of leadership, 
Dr Trevor Phillips, currently the Group’s Chief Operations Officer, will 
assume the role of Interim CEO on 1 July 2015 in the event that a 
new CEO is not in place by this time.
On 1 April this calendar year, we announced we had strengthened 
the Board with the appointment of Dr Per-Olof Andersson as a 
Non-Executive Director. Per-Olof has an international R&D track 
record within the pharmaceuticals, bio-pharmaceuticals and specialty 
pharmaceutical industries and considerable experience in respiratory 
therapeutic development. Per-Olof is a welcome addition to the Board. 
We will continue to strengthen our Board and place great importance 
on governance procedures.
Our people
The Board and I would like to thank the employees of Vectura, 
whose efforts helped us achieve so much this year and whose 
support helped position Vectura as a partner of choice by companies 
seeking to address the unmet medical needs of patients with airways 
disease. We recognise the importance of investing in our people 
and in particular ensuring that they have the skills and experience 
necessary to execute our business model and implement the 
transition of the Group.
Shareholders
We continue to be grateful to our shareholders for their support 
as Vectura makes the exciting journey to becoming a profitable 
specialty pharmaceutical company. Our aim is to continue to 
deliver shareholder value.
Outlook
This year saw Vectura achieve record financial results, which is 
testament to the skills and experience of our people. The foundations 
are in place for the next stage of the journey and I believe that our 
strategy and business model will continue to result in growth 
of shareholder value.
Bruno Angelici
Chairman
19 May 2015
  Read more about our strategy on 
pages 16 and 17
  Read more about our CSR on 
pages 36 to 39
  Read more about our governance on 
pages 43 to 52
