 10 Strategic report We are Vedanta
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
Chairman’s statement
A diversified portfolio that is  
delivering consistent performance  
in a challenging market.
My vision for the future is to continue to fulfil 
Vedanta’s potential while helping to advance 
the world’s largest democratic developing 
nation economically, socially and sustainably. 
India is richly-endowed with the natural 
resources that will fuel its future growth and 
raise the living standards of its population of 
1.2 billion people. We are working with our 
employees, communities and Government to 
help unlock India’s vast resource potential.
Anil Agarwal, Chairman
Highlights of the year 
This year I was delighted to welcome Tom 
Albanese to his position as Vedanta’s Chief 
Executive. His strong industry experience 
is already making a difference and he has 
demonstrated that he shares my vision for 
building an ethical, sustainable business.
The election of a new government in India is 
also beginning to have a positive impact on the 
business environment we operate in and I believe 
that the country will benefit from the progressive 
reforms being proposed by the Government.  Strategic
report
Corporate 
governance and
Directors’ reports
Financial
statements
Additional
information
11
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
www.vedantaresources.com http://sustainabledevelopment.
vedantaresources.com
0
FY
04
1
FY
05
FY
06
FY
07
FY
08
FY
09
FY
10
FY
11
FY
12
PF
2
FY
13
FY
14
FY
15
Near
term
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
  Production growth 
  Copper equivalent (kt)
Zinc-Lead
Silver
8.8x or 22% CAGR
+66%
Oil & Gas Power
Iron Ore
Copper
Aluminium
1
13% CAGR
  Progressive dividends 
  (US cents per share)
2
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
This Government is firmly committed to supporting 
a fast-growing Indian economy, to shape business 
policy and make it easier for the private sector 
to create economic value. We are among the 
largest contributors to the exchequer in India 
and play a strong role in nation building. Vedanta 
makes important, long-term contributions to 
local and regional economies, paying around 
US$15 billion in taxes, royalties and other levies 
in total over the past three years alone. 
Reflecting on another productive year, we 
have proven that we are well-positioned to 
capitalise on India’s abundant natural resource 
opportunities. Despite the volatility in global 
commodity prices, we have delivered a sound 
financial and operating performance. To reflect 
this challenging market environment, we have 
implemented a series of initiatives aimed at 
reducing capital and operating costs across the 
Group, which will maintain our financial strength. 
Financial performance 
Throughout this year, we have remained focused 
on our stated strategic priorities. We have 
started to ease back on capital expenditure 
and concentrated on increasing production 
through optimising our core assets.
We’ve seen unprecedented declines in oil and 
iron ore prices, though zinc and aluminium 
prices were relatively more resilient. These 
affected Group EBITDA, which decreased by 
17% to US$3.7 billion (FY2014: US$4.5 billion). 
However, our diversified portfolio allowed us to 
maintain robust adjusted EBITDA margins of 
38% on the back of our diversified portfolio. 
The substantial drop in oil prices during the year 
has led to a revaluation of our Oil & Gas business 
and a US$4.5 billion (net of tax) writedown. This 
is a reflection on the reality of oil prices today 
and doesn’t affect our strategy in any way. 
We remain committed to being a diversified 
resources player, capitalising on our strengths.
Gross debt reduced by US$0.2 billion in FY2015 
and US$0.6 billion in H2 FY2015. However, net 
debt has increased by US$0.5 billion, mainly due 
to US$0.8 billion spent on increasing our stake in 
Vedanta Limited (formerly Sesa Sterlite) and Cairn 
India during H1 FY2015. Our final dividend of 40 
US cents per share, taking the full year dividend 
up by 3%, reflects our continued confidence in 
the strength and prospects of the business. 
The fundamentals for our business remain sound, 
but we have to navigate this downturn. We 
operate in cyclical markets and at this point in 
the cycle our focus is on productivity, efficiency 
and preserving value and I am confident that 
this will happen given the strength of our 
businesses and dedication of our people. 
We will continue to implement initiatives to 
contain capital expenditure and operating costs 
to maintain financial strength during this period 
of weaker commodity prices. At the same time we 
will preserve our portfolio of assets with attractive 
long-term growth prospects and a strong resource 
position. We also aim to maintain a strong balance 
sheet, with a focus on maximising free cash 
flows, deleveraging and returns to investors. 
We continue to 
contain capital 
expenditure and 
operating costs  
to maintain 
financial strength.
 1 Production growth
Since IPO in 2004, Vedanta has 
grown production across its 
portfolio supported by its 
well-invested expansion programme 
and continued focus on increasing 
R&R over production each year.
1 All commodity and power 
capacities rebased to copper 
equivalent capacity (defined as 
production X commodity price/
copper price) using average 
commodity prices for FY2015. 
Power rebased using FY2015 
realisations, copper custom 
smelting capacities rebased at 
TC/RC for FY2015, iron ore 
volumes refers to sales with 
prices rebased at average 
56/58% FOB prices for FY2015.
2 PF refers to pro forma for Cairn 
India acquisition. 
 2 Progressive dividends
Dividends have been paid out every 
year, across the commodity cycle, 
increasing progressively from 17.0 
US cents per share 11 years ago to 
63.0 US cents per share this year.
3 In FY2004, a single dividend of 
5.5 US cents per share was paid, 
for the four months since listing, 
equivalent to an annual payment 
of 16.5 US cents per share. 12 Strategic report We are Vedanta
Vedanta Resources plc 
Annual report and accounts FY2015
Sustainability 
Sustainable development is at the core of 
Vedanta’s operations. Our Sustainability 
Framework comprises of four pillars: Responsible 
Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships, Adding 
and Sharing Value and Strategic Communications. 
Our Sustainability Framework has a set of policies, 
with technical and management standards aligned 
to international standards, to enable significant 
improvement in the way we do business. 
Social development is fundamental to any 
country’s growth and we are focused on platforms 
for education, healthcare, nutrition and sanitation 
that benefit around four million people every 
year. We work closely with local governments, 
NGOs and academic institutions to help ensure 
that our programmes benefit as many people 
as possible around our communities. I remain 
committed to collaborating on mutually beneficial 
partnerships that will further our positive impact 
on communities and uphold our licence to 
operate in all our areas of operations with rising 
expectations of corporate social responsibility. 
Vedanta now employs, either directly or indirectly, 
approximately 82,000 people globally. While we 
are encouraged that there is an improvement 
in the safety performance of the Group this 
year, I am saddened that we experienced 
eight fatalities. Our efforts across Vedanta, 
to achieve a ‘Zero Harm’ culture is a personal 
priority for our CEO, Mr Tom Albanese and me. 
Governance 
In 2014, we welcomed Katya Zotova, who joined 
the Vedanta Board as a Non-Executive Director, 
and became a member of the Nominations 
and Remuneration Committees. She brings a 
wealth of oil & gas sector experience to the 
Board and her perspective will be invaluable 
as we drive sustainable improvement 
and growth in our global business. 
Diversity is a business imperative as well as an 
expectation by society. We have set ourselves 
some challenging targets in this area and I 
am pleased with the progress we are making. 
Today, we have a strong management team 
with diverse backgrounds, including three 
female executives in front line positions.
I’d like to thank my energetic and hard-working 
Vedanta team – I am amazed at what we 
have achieved over the past 11 years and 
their contribution is immense. Together we 
have created a value-based and empowered 
organisation that is well-positioned for the 
next stage of its growth. I would also like 
to acknowledge all my fellow Directors for 
their sound guidance and contribution. 
Vedanta’s role in transforming India 
The winds of change for economic growth in India 
are blowing strongly. A country of almost 1.2 billion 
people, India is the largest democracy in the world, 
rich in human and natural resources. Vedanta has 
a very important role to play in ensuring that India 
is able to benefit from these resources and become 
self-sufficient in energy supply. India spends a 
significant proportion of its foreign exchange 
on importing oil, and local resources companies 
including Vedanta can help redress this balance.
The new Government has a mandate for 
economic growth and job creation. We support 
its reforms, such as the auctioning of natural 
resources and the ‘Make in India’ programme, 
which is designed to transform India into a global 
manufacturing hub. India has so much to offer, 
and by implementing important changes such 
as making it an easier place to do business, by 
opening up the country to foreign investment, and 
improving infrastructure and productivity, it will 
inevitably create jobs, particularly for our young 
people, and bring further prosperity to the country.
 
Outlook
Going forward, our overall strategic priorities 
remain the same, to build a resilient portfolio which 
enables us to withstand a volatile commodity 
environment and continue to deliver long-term 
value to our shareholders. Group simplification 
is key and looking forward over the next year, 
Tom Albanese and I will be putting greater 
focus on this. The recent name change of Sesa 
Sterlite Limited to Vedanta Limited is a significant 
milestone, which reflects Vedanta’s commitment 
to strengthen the linkage between our businesses, 
communities and stakeholders across the globe. 
In terms of market conditions, India is at an 
inflection point, with its metals and energy 
demand poised to explode as its GDP potentially 
doubles over the next decade. Vedanta is a vehicle 
for new potential investment opportunities in a fast 
growing economy. Over the next few years, we are 
likely to see the demand for all our commodities 
and commercial power increase substantially as 
the Government of India’s focus on ‘Make in India’ 
and infrastructure investments start yielding 
results. As a large and responsible corporation, 
Vedanta is well-positioned to participate in this 
journey, and I look forward to our future. 
Anil Agarwal
Chairman
13 May 2015
Chairman’s statement continued
I am amazed 
at what we have 
achieved over  
the past 11 years.  
We have created  
a value-based  
and empowered 
organisation that  
is well-positioned 
for its next stage 
of growth.
