 16   Annual Report and Accounts 2015   ValiRx plc
hormones. These endometrial-like cells in areas 
outside the uterus (endometriosis) are influenced 
by hormonal changes and respond in a way that 
is similar to the cells found inside the uterus and 
symptoms often worsen with the menstrual 
cycle. The treatments chosen will depend on 
symptoms, age, and lifestyle plans. VAL201 has 
been shown to reduce abnormal endometrial 
growth, whilst leaving other hormone-induced 
activities working normally. ValiRx’s initial in 
vitro results show a reduction in endometrial 
lesion size directly related to dose and two 
generations of offspring produced by treated 
animals. This strongly suggests that the peptide 
does not affect fertility the same way most other 
treatments do.
VAL401
The Company’s Clinical Efficacy trials of the novel 
cancer treatment drug, VAL401, for the treatment 
of lung cancer and other oncology indications, 
is in the late to final stages of preparation. The 
trial, namely (VAL401-001: “A Phase II study to 
assess the efficacy, safety and tolerability of 
VAL401 in the treatment of patients with locally 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
In what has been a pivotal period of momentum 
for the Group, ValiRx’s lead compound VAL201, 
has performed exceptionally in clinical trials, 
demonstrating safety, tolerability and early signs 
of potential efficacy against prostate cancer. Our 
other re-profiled and reformulated therapeutic 
drug, VAL401, has been prepared and is poised to 
enter the clinic and our diagnostic technologies 
are conducting various pilot studies in order to 
grow their revenue streams.
VAL201
The Phase l/ll Clinical Trial of VAL201 and its 
application in subjects with hormone resistant 
prostate cancer has confirmed that the 
compound is well tolerated up to a putative 
therapeutic dose and that it has shown a high 
degree of safety, with no drug related significant 
adverse events being reported. Indeed we were 
delighted that the readout from the first part of 
the trial – from first in human dosing through to  
a therapeutically meaningful dose – showed such 
strong safety and tolerability in all trial subjects. 
Other measurements taken were completely 
consistent and comparable to the results seen  
in the pre-clinical studies, both in vivo and in vitro, 
which completed prior to the early Human phase 
of development in which efficacy was shown.
VAL201 selectively prevents tumour growth by 
specifically inhibiting the proliferation of tumour 
cells. As a result, tumour growth is suppressed and 
metastasis is significantly reduced. The approach 
is a targeted therapeutic with pre-clinical results 
that indicate that due to the specific nature of the 
treatment, this therapy was likely to be less toxic 
than many other therapeutic options, a result 
borne out by the early clinical data. The VAL201 
target is also associated with other cancers and 
there is significant potential for VAL201 to be 
used as a treatment for other hormone-induced 
cancers, such as breast and ovarian and also 
endometriosis.
Additional Clinical Trial Centres
Our desire to open additional Clinical Trial 
Centres has been stated in previous updates. 
These centres will be integrated into the study 
to assist with the dose expansion stage of the 
trial, in which strengthening of the dosing, safety 
and tolerability data will continue while further 
aspects of VAL201 anti-tumour activity are 
investigated. The additional capacity this trial-
centre expansion represents will help ensure trial 
completion according to the expected timetable. 
Currently, further cohorts of subjects are being 
recruited as the dose elevation phase completes.
Endometriosis
The VAL201 clinical trial protocol also permits 
investigation of other solid hormone resistant 
tumour types. In the light of the excellent 
results shown by the compound with respect 
to tolerability and safety and with promising 
pre-clinical evidence of the compound’s efficacy 
with respect to the treatment of the non-
cancerous condition of endometriosis, we have 
started the design of the protocol to test VAL201 
for its clinical potential in the treatment of the 
debilitating female condition, Endometriosis.  
Our preclinical results are good and encouraging 
and we anticipate this to be an important 
development of the compound’s therapeutic use.
Endometriosis is a gynaecological medical 
condition in which cells from the lining of the 
uterus (endometrium) appear and flourish 
outside the uterine cavity (lined by endometrial 
cells), which are under the influence of female 
VAL401
The Company’s VAL401 trial has been 
registered with the European Union 
Drug Regulating Authorities Clinical 
Trials Database (EudraCT). Work is now 
continuing to advance the regulatory 
approval process, with a primary trial site 
and Principal Investigator successfully 
identified and engaged.
Strategic Report
“Following on from 
the Chairman’s 
comprehensive  
review I will comment  
on the events and 
activities that I find the  
most significant and point  
the way to the future  
of the Company.”
Dr Satu Vainikka
Founding Director & Chief Executive Officer The Company is pleased that the readout from  
the first part of the trial – from first in human 
dosing through to a therapeutically meaningful  
dose – has shown such strong safety and 
tolerability in all trial subjects.” 
Following on from the Company’s update on 19 November 2015 regarding its Phase l/ll 
Clinical Trial of VAL201 and its application to subjects with hormone resistant prostate cancer, 
ValiRx confirms that the compound is well tolerated up to a putative therapeutic dose and  
that it has shown a high degree of safety, with no drug related significant adverse events  
being reported. The Company is pleased that the readout from the first part of the trial – 
from first in human dosing through to a therapeutically meaningful dose – has shown such 
strong safety and tolerability in all trial subjects. ValiRx is also happy to advise that other 
measurements taken are completely consistent and comparable to the results seen in the  
pre-clinical studies, both in vivo and in vitro, that completed prior to this early Human phase  
of development in which efficacy was shown. The trial also permits investigation of other  
solid hormone resistant tumour types.
VAL201 Passes Safety Test  
with Flying Colours
View more on our website www.valirx.com/news
“
17   
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
ValiRx plc   Annual Report and Accounts 2015
advanced or metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung 
Cancer (NSCLC) after failure of at least one prior 
chemotherapeutic regimen”) has been registered 
with the European Union Drug Regulating 
Authorities Clinical Trials Database (EudraCT).
VAL401 is the reformulation of a generic drug 
that has over 20 years of clinical use for treatment 
of chronic non-oncology conditions. The re-
formulation allows the drug to access previously 
unexploited anti-cancer activity. VAL401 is 
progressing satisfactorily through its remaining 
preclinical development and towards clinical 
Phase II trials for the treatment of lung cancer and 
other oncology indications. Progress into clinical 
trials will comprise a shorter than usual route to 
Market Authorisation by use of prior clinical data 
gathered on the original generic drug. Preclinical 
efficacy data has been collected in both non-
small cell lung, prostate and pancreatic cancers. 
Preclinical toxicology has revealed no side effects 
beyond those expected from the parent drug, 
with preclinical pharmacokinetic data allowing 
bridging from VAL401 to the historical full clinical 
data package on the parent drug. Formulation 
stability tests are currently underway to complete 
the CMC package.
TRAC
In February 2015, ValiRx acquired the Finnish gene 
expression and biomarker technology ‘Transcript 
Analysis with the Aid of Affinity Capture’ (“TRAC”) 
for use by its wholly owned biomarker unit, ValiRx 
Finland Oy (“ValiFinn”), based in Oulu, Finland. 
This TRAC technology has already strengthened 
ValiFinn’s biomarker development and service 
offering, by providing a high-content gene 
expression analysis platform, which will support 
ValiRx’s development of oncology biomarkers 
and will support the Group’s development of 
its oncology drug pipeline. TRAC is actively 
marketing itself to third parties growing its 
revenue stream.
“Now that we are  
actually in the midst  
of the Trial at UCLH  
and the initial results  
are very encouraging  
I am looking forward  
with optimism for  
VAL201 and its  
future.”
Furthermore regarding ValiRx’s proprietary 
‘gene-silencing’ GeneICE technology (or “Gene 
inactivation by chromatin engineering”), the 
Board believes there are further synergies and 
advantages to be gained through GeneICE’s 
access to and pairing with TRAC’s gene 
expression analysis technology. Since GeneICE 
down regulates “rebellious Genes” , TRAC can be 
used as a fast method to test GeneICE expression 
biomarkers and is well placed to select future 
GeneICE therapeutic targets.
GeneICE
Activities are continuing within the GeneICE 
Eurostars pre-clinical programme.
GeneICE “rebellious gene” technology continues 
to show good progress in the pre-clinical phase - 
the programme currently benefits from a second 
Eurostars grant for up to €1.6 million.
Rebellious genes are genes that are 
overexpressed when they should not be  
or are erroneously expressed, e.g. in cancers, 
inflammatory conditions, Alzheimer’s and 
autoimmune diseases. ValiRx’s proprietary 
GeneICE technology enables the selective 
silencing of specific genes by targeted histone 
deacetylation leading to chromatin condensation. 
This prevents access and silences gene 
expression. In nature histone deacetylation of a 
particular gene is brought about by recruitment 
of a histone deacetylase complex (HDAC) to 
the gene. GeneICE constructs mimic this natural 
mechanism by delivery to the nucleus of a  
dual-module construct comprising: the binding 
of GeneICE construct to its target gene leads  
to deacetylation of the histones associated with 
 the gene, localised chromatin condensation  
and gene silencing.
Outlook
In conclusion, the period under review has been 
pleasingly satisfactory and our teams around  
the VAL201 and VAL401 compounds have started 
talking to parties for late stage clinical studies  
and for potential partnerships and collaboration 
with pharmaceutical partners.
ValiRx continues to look to expand its Intellectual 
Property (“IP”) as its development programmes 
go forward and it remains open to technology 
acquisition opportunities and ways in which it 
can both deliver and grow shareholder value.
Dr Satu Vainikka
Founding Director & Chief Executive Officer
19 May 2016
