 Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 2
At a glance
Versarien plc consists of three core businesses.
Thermal Products
Thermal Products develops and manufactures porous copper 
and aluminium heat sinks.
Founded in 2010 and based in Gloucestershire, the division enables 
engineering exploitation of thermal management solutions in advanced 
materials such as copper foam. It holds the exclusive rights to a 
patent-protected process for creating microporous copper foam 
developed at the University of Liverpool and has applications including, 
but not limited to, copper foam heat sinks, air cooled, liquid cooled 
and passively cooled and in single and two phase products.
Markets we serve
We manufacture custom and off the shelf thermal management 
solutions for industry sectors including,
Case study: air-heat sinks
Continued research and development has led to the launch of a 
range of high performance, low profile heat sinks. The enhanced 
surface area of the porous metals, coupled with the exceptional 
thermal properties of copper, mean that our heat sink range 
is smaller in size without compromising performance, making 
it ideal for space constrained applications. This product launch 
is the culmination of a number of R&D projects completed by 
the VTL team – both internal and in partnership with external 
bodies such as innovateUK. In particular our expertise has 
been leveraged to develop unique manufacturing routes that 
can satisfy demand from our global distributors, along with 
test and qualification resource that provides our clients with 
the design data they need.
Hard Wear Products
Hard Wear Products develop and manufacture sintered tungsten 
carbide parts and hard wear tooling.
Founded in the 1950’s and based in Buckinghamshire, the division 
principally manufactures bespoke products for a wide spread of 
wear applications ranging from all aspects of oil and gas through 
measurement tools and cutting knives to difficult complex 
applications requiring specialised corrosion resistant materials.
Markets we serve
  Oil and gas
  Metrology
  Paper and packaging
  Metal cutting
  Valves and pumps
  Metal forming
  Spraying
  Tooling
  Textile
  Tobacco
  Telecoms and broadcast
  Consumer electronics
  Microscopy
  Defence and aerospace
  Automotive transportation
  Medical thermal 
management
  Industrial lighting
Case study: tungsten carbide
A major challenge in the industry has been to produce 
tungsten carbide components with increasingly complicated 
and intricate geometries and features. Due to the physical 
properties of the material, standard machining technology 
is not adequate. The R&D team went through a lengthy and 
challenging process to design, prototype and test a number 
of geometrically different components, before eventually 
succeeding in developing an innovative solution within the 
desired internal form. The solution enables the production 
of “chambers” in the tungsten carbide that cannot be produced 
by any other standard production method. The outcome was 
a “one piece” tungsten carbide pressure valve that eliminates 
the potential for pressure leaks through the previously adjoining 
faces, thus allowing higher operating pressures. Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 3
Review of the period Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Case study: Acquisition of 2-Dtech
In line with Versarien’s strategy to acquire advance material 
technology, the Company completed the purchase of 85% 
of 2-Dtech from The University of Manchester on 1 May 2014.
2-Dtech is a graphene company that was wholly owned by 
The University of Manchester, where graphene was first 
isolated by Nobel Prize winners Professor Sir Andre Geim 
and Professor Sir Kostya Novoselov, who head the University’s 
world-leading Condensed Matter Research Group (CMRG). 
At the time of acquisition 2-Dtech had the ability to produce 
graphene by using either a chemical vapour deposition process; 
in suspension or dispersions; or a ‘milling’ process.
The patented milling process has been further developed 
by building on techniques originating from The University of 
Manchester, refined by the University of Ulster and 2-Dtech 
and involves a mechanised exfoliation process in which a strong 
shearing force is applied to the surface of the graphene layers. 
Details of acquisition
Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, Versarien 
acquired 561,000 of the 660,000 ordinary shares of 2-Dtech 
currently in issue, equal to 85 per cent of the entire issued 
share capital of 2-Dtech. The University of Manchester retain 
a holding of 99,000 ordinary shares for a minimum of three years, 
equivalent to 15 per cent of 2-Dtech signifying their commitment 
to the collaboration. The consideration for the acquisition was 
£740,000 settled by £220,000 in cash £220,000 in Versarien 
Shares at 26 pence per share plus the funding of two fast-track 
graphene application projects to a maximum of £300,000.
Recently, following agreement with the Universities of Manchester 
and Ulster, 2-Dtech has now purchased 60% of the patent rights 
from The University of Manchester for a sum of £140,000 and 
in future is obligated to pay royalties only to the University of 
Ulster the greater of 1.6% of sales and 10% of ebitda.
Graphene Products
Graphene Products specialises in the supply, characterisation 
and early stage development of graphene products.
Founded in 2012 at The University of Manchester, where graphene 
was first isolated, the division is focused on the development and 
production of graphene platelets and the acceleration of commercial 
applications for graphene and graphene products.
The patented process involves mechanised exfoliation in which a 
strong shearing force is applied to the surface of the graphene layers. 
This process can be automated and allows graphene sheets to be 
produced in larger quantities and with greater chemical purity. 
The resulting graphene has up to 99% carbon and minimal oxygen 
content, as well as being effectively inert. The graphene also exhibits 
exceptionally good structure and retains a very high degree of crystallinity 
ensuring that the risk of contamination is significantly reduced.
Graphene performance is dependent not only on the purity, but 
the number of atomic layers, with a single layer providing optimal 
performance, allowing the full potential of graphene to be 
unlocked. Importantly, the 2-Dtech production process provides 
significant amounts of few layer graphene on an industrial scale.
Graphene has successfully been incorporated into Solar PV, 
lithium batteries, conductive inks and a range of thermoplastic 
composite materials.
We believe that our product offerings are capable of having a  
game-changing impact in a broad variety of industry sectors 
through our subsidiaries.”
Read more about our 
strategy on Page 6
