 Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 5
Review of the period Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
and Strategic Report
On 11 June 2015, we announced that 2-Dtech 
made a major advance in graphene platelet 
production to accelerate potential commercial 
applications for graphene and graphene 
products. 2-Dtech has developed its own 
proprietary graphene production technique 
founded upon the shared IP process from 
the Universities of Ulster and Manchester 
which offers numerous advantages over 
the conventional graphene manufacturing 
solutions currently on the market.
2-Dtech is currently working with a number of 
clients, from industries as diverse as military, 
medical and consumer products, requiring 
access to high quality, cost effective graphene 
and is expecting to form a number of further 
partnerships to commercialise this technology 
in a timely fashion in the near future.
Hard Wear Products currently consists 
of Total Carbide Limited and our associate, 
DV Composite Tooling Limited. Total Carbide 
was acquired at the time of flotation and 
supplies tungsten carbide parts mainly to the 
oil and gas industry. Despite the drop in the 
oil price and subsequent set-backs in that 
sector, it has performed exceptionally well. 
DV Composite Tooling is a start-up venture 
with Dimar Limited, an Israeli company 
supplying tungsten carbide tools to the 
woodworking industry. DV will develop 
and market a new range of hard wear 
tooling for the composites industry.
Markets and trends
There are a number of companies that 
provide support and finance to businesses 
seeking to commercialise intellectual 
property or provide finance to spin-out 
companies from universities or research 
institutions, but they tend to cover many sectors. 
Versarien plc concentrates on only those 
opportunities that are in the advanced 
materials and high value manufacturing 
sectors and that outperform conventional 
materials with superior combinations of 
functional properties, such as toughness, 
hardness, durability, elasticity, strength 
or conductivity.
Versarien Technologies operates in the 
global market for thermal management 
technology which is expected to reach 
$11 billion by 2016 and its potential 
applications include aerospace, defence, 
automotive, data communications, renewable 
energy, power distribution, transportation 
and motorsport. 2-Dtech operates in the 
graphene development market, the total 
demand for which is anticipated to circa 
400 tonnes by 2017. Forecasts suggest the 
market for graphene products in 2018 will 
be US$195 million growing to US$1.3 billion 
by 2023. Total Carbide operates in the hard 
wear parts market principally for use in oil 
and gas exploration.
Outlook
We continue to look for opportunities to grow 
the business both organically and inorganically 
whilst keeping costs and cash under control. 
Research and development is a fundamental 
part of our business and the Board’s strategy 
is to ensure that we now commercialise the 
sums invested. I would like to thank all of our 
hard working employees for their dedication 
in our fast-moving businesses and we look 
forward to the future with much optimism.
Business overview
Thermal Products consists of the porous 
copper foam product and the metal heat 
sink business acquired during the year. 
We have recently announced the launch 
of a range of air cooled heat sink products 
using VersarienCu™. This range is designed 
for use in passive cooling applications where 
space is at a premium and performance is 
crucial. Applications include power integrated 
circuits, high temperature components and 
transistors, set top boxes, AP routers, cable 
modems and broadband, optical networks 
and LED TV and flat panel displays. Since our 
financial year end, we have signed a global 
distribution agreement with Mouser Inc 
and a number of European distributors to sell 
this technology thus accelerating our routes 
to market. We also continue to work with a 
small number of potential OEM customers 
on specific projects. In order to expand our 
thermal product offering, in February 2015 
we acquired certain assets and business 
of Custom Systems Limited, a manufacturer 
of all manner of extruded aluminium products 
and heat sinks for the electronics and 
computing industries as well as for 
large machinery and generators.
Graphene Products currently consists 
of 2-Dtech Limited, which we acquired in May 
last year from The University of Manchester. 
This purchase gave us a low-cost entry into 
graphene technology from the home of 
graphene and mainly consisted of some 
shared intellectual property with the 
Universities of Manchester and Ulster for 
graphene production using an exfoliation 
process, know how to produce graphene 
using chemical vapour deposition and a 
number of networking opportunities.
Read more about our business model 
and strategy over the page Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 6
 
1
 Intellectual property    
4
 Capital
Our strategy at a glance
  To identify and acquire disruptive intellectual property 
in advanced materials and enter into joint development 
agreements with potential customers or take to market 
through distribution channels 
  To establish development agreements with  
world-class organisations
  To commence commercial production
  To maximise cash generation from our mature 
business to support technology development
Versarien plc seeks to capitalise on innovative IP, transforming 
it into commercially viable products that can tackle the 
technological challenges faced by modern manufacturers. 
This requires a number of steps:
1  a continual deal flow either by establishing new 
licence arrangements with research institutions or 
by identifying embryonic companies in early stages 
of development whose intellectual property fits with 
our definition of advanced materials technology;
2  applying the management team’s experience to 
developing and commercialising the advanced 
materials technology;
3  providing the plant and equipment to get into production 
either via its existing production facilities or by funding 
new facilities; and
4  providing working capital facilities either from existing 
reserves, its public listing or via banking facilities.
Our business model and strategy
 
2
 Experience      
3
 Manufacture
Versarien plc
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
and Strategic Report continued Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 7
Review of the period Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Key performance indicators
These key performance indicators have replaced those adopted previously 
to reflect the development of the Group in the year.
(589)
(1,747)
2014 2015
Cash utilised by technology  
businesses after capital investment 
(£’000)
Cash raised/utilised by parent 
(including cash acquired and net 
of loans to technology businesses) (£’000)
2014 2015
653
4,580
As a Group that consists of mature products supporting the development of early stage technology 
products we concentrate on the following financial metrics:
Versarien plc is an IP-led advanced engineering materials group that utilises 
proprietary technology to create innovative new engineering solutions.
We believe that our product offerings are capable of having a game-changing impact in a broad variety of industry 
sectors through our subsidiaries:
Objectives
Our objectives for the current financial year are:
  identify and acquire majority stakes in embryonic 
advanced materials companies;
  identify and acquire licences for thermal 
management materials;
  sign application development agreements 
with customers;
  sign commercial production agreements 
with customers;
  move Thermal Products division to break-even by 
the end of the financial year; 
  maintain Hard Wear Products division operating 
profit return at a minimum of 10% of sales; and
  commence commercial production of graphene 
in quantity for specific applications.
(232)
(277)
2014 2015
Loss before interest, tax, depreciation, 
amortisation, exceptional costs and 
share-based charges (£’000)
183
3,316
2014 2015
Net cash raised  
by the Group 
(£’000)
Technology  
products/processes  
in development
2014 2015
26
31
Gross margin percentage  
(%)
36%
38%
2014 2015
Revenue  
(£’000)
2014 2015
4,982
2,953
Cash generated from mature  
businesses after capital investment 
(£’000)
119
483
2014 2015
+68.7%
+196.6%
+19.4%
+1,712.0%
+5.5%
+601.4%
+305.9%
+19.2%
Our key performance indicators and objectives Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 8
Principal risks and uncertainties
Versarien plc’s businesses are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and the 
Board continually considers how to identify and mitigate the key business risks that could 
impact the Group’s performance. The following risks are those that the Group considers 
could have the most serious adverse effect on its performance and reputation.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
and Strategic Report continued
Risk Mitigation Change
Technological risks
Versarien plc operates in an industry where competitive 
advantage is heavily dependent on technology. It is possible that 
technological development may reduce the importance of the 
Group’s function(s) in the market or render the patents and 
licences on which it relies redundant. The Group’s existing 
products may become obsolete or may be superseded by new 
technologies or changes in customer or end-user requirements. 
Versarien plc continually monitors the market in which 
it operates and has the resources to invest in new 
technology as appropriate.
Competition risks
New competitive products, designs or solutions may enter the 
market with different benefits or using different technologies, 
making them equally or more attractive than the Group’s 
current range of products. Competitors may also be able to 
devote greater resources to the promotion and sale of their 
products, designs or solutions than the Group, which would 
give them a competitive advantage.
The Group continues to provide resources with the aim 
of improving each generation of products it develops. 
If the Group is unable to compete successfully with 
existing or new competitors, it may have to reduce 
prices on products, which would lead to reduced profits.
Intellectual property protection risks
Failure to protect the Group’s IP may result in another party 
copying or otherwise obtaining and using its proprietary content 
and technology without authorisation. There may not be adequate 
protection for IP in every country in which the enlarged Group’s 
products are or will be made available and policing unauthorised 
use of proprietary information is difficult and expensive.
The Group monitors products brought to market as far 
as reasonably possible and will take cost effective legal 
action to protect its IP.
Development risk
The rate at which the development of the Group’s technology 
is adopted by potential customers is dependent upon the rate 
at which those customers wish to progress.
The Group mitigates this risk as far as possible by 
ensuring that it responds rapidly to technical changes 
that may be required. Versarien plc Annual Report 2015 9
Review of the period Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Key
 Increase in risk
 
No change in risk
 Decrease in risk
On behalf of the Board
Neill Ricketts
Chief Executive Officer
20 July 2015
Risk Mitigation Change
Attraction and retention of key employees risks
The Group depends upon the continued service and performance 
of the Executive Officers and key employees and, whilst it has 
entered into contractual arrangements with these individuals 
with the aim of securing the services of each of them, retention 
of these services cannot be guaranteed. The loss of the services 
of any of the Executive Officers or other key employees could damage 
the Group’s business. Equally the ability to attract new employees 
and senior employees with the appropriate expertise and skills 
cannot be guaranteed.
Risk is mitigated by providing share options to key 
employees together with significant opportunities 
for career advancement.
Future funding risks
Whilst the Directors have no current plans for raising additional 
capital it is possible that the Group will need to raise extra capital 
in the future to develop fully the Company’s business or to take 
advantage of future acquisition opportunities. No assurance can 
be given that any such additional financing will be available or that, 
if available, it will be available on terms favourable to the Group 
or to the Group’s shareholders.
Risk is mitigated by maintaining relationships with more 
than one bank and by dialogue with its institutional 
shareholders.
General economic conditions risks
Market conditions, particularly those affecting technology 
companies, may affect the ultimate value of the Group’s share 
price regardless of operating performance. Market perception 
of technology companies may change, which could impact on 
the value of investors’ holdings and on the ability of the Group to 
raise further funds by an issue of further shares. General economic 
conditions may affect exchange rates, interest rates and inflation 
rates. Movements in these rates will have an impact on the 
Group’s cost of raising and maintaining debt financing.
Risk is mitigated by seeking to expand the products and 
technologies for sale within the Group and by seeking to 
sell the Group’s products to wider geographical areas 
both directly and through distribution.
Commodity prices risks
A significant amount of Versarien plc’s purchases are metallurgical 
powders. Consequently, exposure to movements in underlying 
commodity prices affects profitability.
Where possible we purchase from more than one source 
under medium to long-term contracts and manage our 
stock levels accordingly.
