 Chairman’s statement
In this, our first full year of trading since being admitted to AIM, I am pleased 
to be able to report real progress in the Group’s performance.
Versarien plc comprises an exciting combination of advanced materials with high growth potential with underpinning, 
profitable manufacturing. I believe this set of results demonstrates Versarien plc has the expertise in place to take new 
materials and scale up efficient manufacturing for commercial applications. All of this is in accordance with our stated 
strategy, details of which are given in the Strategic Report. 
The Board is confident 
in Versarien plc’s 
position to capitalise 
on opportunities 
presented in its 
key markets.”
We have completed two acquisitions in the 
period and the Group is now organised into 
three business segments: Thermal Products, 
which develops and manufactures porous 
copper and aluminium heat sinks; Hard Wear 
Products, which manufactures tungsten 
carbide hard wear parts; and Graphene 
Products, which is developing graphene 
nano-platelets via an exfoliation process.
We are pleased to report sales of 
£4.98 million, up 69% from the previous 
year. Net assets increased 180% to 
£7.3 million with cash at the year end 
of £3.5 million.
Thermal Products 
We have broadened our product offering 
following the acquisition of the assets of 
Custom Systems to include aluminium heat 
sinks; revenue was up £351,000 as a result. 
A new range of air cooled heat sinks was 
launched and our routes to market grew 
through the establishment of distributors 
in Europe and the US. 
Hard Wear Products
Hard Wear Products reported sales 
of £4.6 million and operating profit of 
£884,000 during a period of relatively high 
oil prices. As the oil price has declined the 
market for our products has weakened. 
We have mitigated this by diversifying our 
customer base to include new territories 
and sectors. The division continues to 
perform well given the current economic 
environment and we continue to look for 
ways to enhance performance further.
Graphene Products
Following the acquisition of 2-Dtech in May 
we have focused on developing the process 
licensed through the University of Ulster and 
part-funded by The University of Manchester 
(UoM). We continue to collaborate with both of 
these leading research institutions. Sales and 
other income from the division was £153,000 
in the post-acquisition period. Since the 
year end we have announced a breakthrough 
in the scalable manufacture of graphene 
platelets using a patented exfoliation process. 
We have also announced an agreement to repay 
the funding previously provided by UoM 
in return for a 60% share in the patent rights 
and the lesser of 98.4% of sales revenues and 
90% of profits arising from the graphene IP.
Summary
We made considerable progress in the 
last year and this has continued into the 
new financial year with a number of key 
strategic achievements. 
As announced on 13 July 2015, Versarien plc 
and Haydale Graphene Industries plc signed a 
memorandum of understanding to collaborate 
on and accelerate the development of their 
respective graphene projects. This is the latest 
in a number of strategic alliances formed by 
Versarien plc, others including agreements 
with the National Graphene Institute and the 
Graphene Engineering Innovation Centre 
at The University of Manchester. 
The UK is one of the leading territories 
for the development of graphene solutions. 
Through collaborations, such as that which 
we announced recently with Haydale, the UK 
market is well positioned to become the global 
leader in graphene technology development. 
Our attendance at the UK Graphene Exhibit 
at Nano Korea earlier this month, along 
with a number of other UK-based companies, 
illustrates the high level of development 
and co-operation in this space.
As a result, the Board is confident in 
Versarien plc’s position to capitalise on the 
opportunities presented in its key markets, 
while minimising risk by pursuing multiple 
projects and developing a range of innovative 
materials into commercially viable products. 
We look forward with optimism to the 
coming year.
I would like to thank the staff and the Board for 
their hard work during the year. This coming 
year will be important for Versarien plc as it 
seeks to commercialise the technologies it has 
been developing since flotation in June 2013. 
Ian Balchin
Non-executive Chairman
20 July 2015
4
