 8 The Vitec Group plc
* Before restructuring costs and charges associated with acquired businesses. Profit before tax and adjusted earnings per share are also before disposal of business.
+
 Free cash flow: cash generated from operating activities in the financial year after net capital expenditure, net interest and tax paid.
Delivering our strategy
The Group continued to implement its strategy of focusing on 
its core Broadcast and Photographic markets and investing 
and growing sales in new technologies and regions. Our 
core markets are showing some signs of stabilisation and are 
expected to grow in the medium-term. This growth is being 
driven by the increase in the capture and sharing of high quality 
images, and by the continued evolution of new technologies.
Our strategy is to grow the Group’s core business by leveraging 
our premium brands and strong market positions supported 
by new product development. This includes launching new 
premium products and services, particularly for the growing 
number of independent content creators. These independent 
content creators provide video to a growing number of platforms 
including educational and religious establishments, corporate 
entities and governmental bodies. 
In our Broadcast market we have launched a number of 
innovative products including: Teradek’s VidiU Pro and COLR; 
the Paralinx Ace; and new ranges of SmallHD on-camera 
monitors. The Teradek VidiU Pro is an easy to use portable 
device that enables users to broadcast their events live to 
the internet. The Teradek COLR is a camera accessory that 
allows creative colour correction to be completed in real 
time on a cinema camera. The Paralinx Ace is a lightweight, 
portable device offering uncompressed real-time wireless 
monitoring, ideal for UAVs (“drones”). The SmallHD 702 Bright 
is an on-camera field monitor offering very high brightness 
and reduced glare, allowing high resolution monitoring and  
accurate colour correction in outdoor daylight.
In our Photographic market we have launched the Manfrotto 
Digital Director – an Apple-certified electronic device that 
connects a camera and iPad and enables photographers to fully 
control the camera through the iPad. We have also launched a 
new range of LED lights specifically for photographers and two 
new ranges of Manfrotto branded bags and accessories for 
action cameras and drones.
We believe that the Asia-Pacific region is a particularly important 
medium-term growth market with good opportunities. We have 
continued to make investments in this region including the 
introduction of a new direct distribution model in China for  
the Photographic Division.
Driving profitable growth in a changing market
The Group is investing in its higher technology product 
businesses and streamlining those activities with lower growth 
prospects. The restructuring actions identified in our 2015 half 
year results announcement are underway and progressing  
to plan. 
As a result of continuing challenging markets, we are 
supplementing our initial actions that were predominately 
in the Broadcast Division with the streamlining of additional 
operations. This includes the restructuring of some back office 
operations within our Photographic Division and further actions 
within our Broadcast businesses. As a result, the one-off costs 
are anticipated to increase from the previously announced 
estimate of £6 million to approximately £10 million, the majority 
of which will be in cash. These overall actions, which principally 
relate to restructuring in the UK, US and Europe, will be 
completed by the end of 2016 and will deliver an approximate 
two year payback on an annualised basis.
Vitec has continued to deliver its strategy of focusing 
on its core Broadcast and Photographic markets 
and investing and growing sales in new technologies 
and regions.
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Group Chief Executive Stephen Bird  
reviews strategy and performance
Chosen markets 
www.vitecgroup.com/chosen_markets
Group Chief Executive’s Review 
www.vitecgroup.com/ceo Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Post year-end we have sold the main UK Broadcast 
manufacturing site based in Bury St Edmunds for proceeds 
of £3.9 million. We plan to relocate the business to a smaller, 
more efficient, leased facility nearby, having transferred a 
significant proportion of the manufacturing to Costa Rica in 
recent years, and will use the net cash proceeds from the sale 
to reduce the Group’s debt.
2015 Performance overview
We have continued to invest additional resources in driving 
new product sales in line with our strategy. As expected, the 
full year results reflect the non-repeat of the 2014 Sochi Winter 
Olympics and FIFA World Cup, and an anticipated negative 
impact from foreign exchange. There was growth in revenue 
and operating profit* over the prior period excluding these items. 
The Group is making good progress in streamlining certain 
activities with lower growth prospects, with some further actions 
being taken to drive profitable growth. 
The Broadcast Division performed satisfactorily in variable 
market conditions. Our higher technology product businesses 
are performing well, including further strong growth of our 
wireless products. This partially offset lower sales of large 
camera supports, the non-repeat of major sporting events,  
and investments in the future growth of our higher  
technology businesses. 
The Photographic Division continued to face challenging 
markets, particularly in the US, but there are some signs of 
stabilisation. The Division delivered broadly similar sales to  
the prior year at constant exchange rates, having benefitted 
from the launch of new products and expanding its distribution 
geographically and across online distribution channels. 
Profit before tax of £31.5 million was £3.8 million lower than 
the prior year (2014: £35.3 million). Adjusted earnings per 
share* decreased by 11.6% to 49.4 pence per share (2014: 
55.9 pence per share). Group profit before tax of £18.5 million 
(2014: £20.1 million) was after £4.9 million of restructuring 
costs (2014: £2.7 million) and £8.1 million charges associated 
with acquired businesses (2014: £8.5 million). 2014 also 
included a £4.0 million loss arising from the disposal of the  
IMT business. 
Vitec continues to be a cash generative Group with free cash 
flow
+
 of £16.2 million (2014: £18.2 million) after £3.5 million 
of cash outflows on restructuring actions (2014: £3.2 million). 
The Group’s balance sheet remains strong with net debt at 
31 December 2015 at £76.3 million (31 December 2014: 
£70.9 million) including a net adverse foreign exchange impact 
of £2.1 million, and a net debt to EBITDA ratio (covenants 
definition) of 1.5 times (31 December 2014: 1.2 times).
Product development
We continue to invest in new products and enhancements  
to our existing product ranges and I am pleased with the new 
products that we have launched this year. The level of product 
development collaboration across our Divisions has also 
remained strong in 2015, including products for the growing 
number of independent content creators. Further examples  
of our new products can be seen in the Divisional case studies  
on pages 25 to 27. We continue to invest over 4% of Group 
product sales into research, development and engineering.
Acquisitions and disposals
The Group continues to identify and make appropriate, value-
adding acquisitions. This year’s acquisitions have met our  
pre-acquisition expectations and introduced a number of 
leading edge products. In 2015, Vitec acquired Paralinx,  
a leading provider of high quality wireless radio transmission 
systems, which has been fully integrated into the Teradek 
wireless business. In January 2016 we acquired Provak for  
a net consideration of £0.9 million. Provak is a photographic 
distribution business based in the Netherlands which will 
complement our owned distribution channels.
Market overview
An overview of our two markets is provided on the  
following pages.
Approval of Strategic Report 
We have provided information in this report on our strategy, 
business model and objectives which is contained in the 
Strategic Report. You will find the Strategic Report on pages  
1 to 39 and its content has been approved by the Board.
Outlook
Vitec remains in a sound financial position and the Board 
remains confident about the future growth prospects of the 
Group. Although challenging market conditions look likely to 
continue in 2016, we have taken actions to streamline our 
lower growth businesses while building a strong platform and 
making investments in higher technology products that will 
position us to grow sales and margins in the future.
Stephen Bird 
Group Chief Executive
22 February 2016
Strategic Report
Market updates
Turn to page 14 to 17
9 Annual Report & Accounts 2015
