 06 Volga Gas plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Report
As the Chairman has noted, Volga Gas faced 
significant	challenges	during	2015,	with	
market factors constraining gas and 
condensate	production	during	the	first	half	
of the year, declines in production from the 
mature oil wells, dramatic reductions in 
international oil prices and higher rates of 
production taxes. Each of these factors has 
had	an	impact	on	the	financial	performance	
of the Group.
There was, however, continued operational 
progress during the year. Development 
drilling	on	our	main	field,	Vostochny	
Makarovskoye (“VM”) was successfully 
concluded and towards the end of 2015, we 
increased the rate of production from the 
VM	and	Dobrinskoye	fields	by	50%.	
However, this late lift in production did not 
make a material contribution to the Group’s 
full year’s average daily production which 
was severely impacted by lower production 
earlier in the year.
Another factor in the Group’s overall 
production in 2015 was the continuing 
decline in oil production from the mature 
Uzenskoye	field.	However,	Volga	Gas	 
had made very good returns from these 
assets	and	management	has	identified	
opportunities to revive oil production both 
by further development of proven reserves 
and by exploration for new reserves. As part 
of this strategy, a number of operations 
were carried out during 2015, as detailed in 
the Operational Review, on pages 08 and 09. 
Unfortunately, these did not result in 
immediate success, but I am optimistic that 
the	strategy	will	yield	significant	levels	of	oil	
production in the future.
Andrey Zozulya
Chief	Executive	Officer
Summary and Outlook
 – Upstream development of VM gas field is effectively 
completed
 – New wells (VM#3, VM#4) expected to enable 100% increase in production 
capacity
 – Field	output	has	increased	by	50%,	fully	utilising	the	current	effective	
operational capacity of the gas plant of 750 mcm/d (26.5 mmcf/d)
 – Gas Processing Plant
 – Effective	available	capacity	is	750–1,000	mmcm/d	(26.3–35.3	mmcf/d)
 – Seeking	to	improve	operational	efficiency	in	the	current	plant
 – Aim	to	upgrade	to	amine-based	sweetening	to	enable	significant	cost	savings	
and full 35.3 mmcf/d capacity utilisation
 – Longer	term	plan	to	install	LPG	capture	=>	further	significant	increase	in	
revenues	and	in	profit	margin	expected
 – Finance
 – Strong position at start of 2015 enabled Volga Gas to complete development 
and remain net cash positive
 – Well	placed	to	benefit	from	recovery	in	oil	prices/Russian	Rouble
 – Considering raising moderate levels of debt to fund incremental capex on 
gas plant upgrade
 – Current trading and outlook
 – Production during 1Q 2016 averaged 5,550 boepd, current run rate of over 
6,000 boepd
 – Exports of condensate have enabled production to be maintained at full 
operational levels
 – Financial performance in US$ driven by oil prices, RUR rates and Mineral 
Extraction Taxes
 – Operating costs and G&A primarily RUR denominated 07 Volga Gas plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Following my appointment as Chief 
Executive on 5 May 2015, I decided it would 
be	most	effective	if	I	were	to	be	based	close	
to the operations in the city of Saratov, 
rather than in Moscow. Since then, I have 
initiated a restructuring of the operational 
teams with the aim of improving the 
effectiveness	of	our	operational	capabilities.	
In addition, following an incident that led to 
a loss of funds from certain of our bank 
accounts, detailed below, I decided to 
improve the online security and make 
changes	to	the	financial	management	in	 
the operating companies. I believe that  
with these changes implemented, the  
Group is well placed to develop successfully 
in the future.
2016 objectives and medium-term 
strategy
Having successfully completed the drilling 
of	the	VM#3	and	VM#4	wells,	the	VM	field	is	
now	effectively	fully	developed	and	is	
expected	to	be	able	to	deliver	sufficient	
production to maintain a production plateau 
of 1 million m
3
 per day (35.3 million cubic 
feet per day – “mmcf/d”). However, based on 
its	current	configuration,	we	believe	the	gas	
processing plant is capable of sustaining 
production at a rate of 750,000 m
3
 per day 
(26.5 mmcf/d). Following extensive technical 
evaluation and consideration of alternatives, 
it	has	been	decided	that	the	most	effective	
solution for the longer term is to re-
configure	the	gas	plant	to	utilise	an	amine	
based gas sweetening process. We believe 
that this can be achieved with a modest 
investment, recently estimated at 
approximately US$8 million. If successful, 
this	would	significantly	reduce	the	costs	of	
chemicals consumed in gas processing and 
allow the gas plant to process the targeted 
1 million m
3
 per day (35.3 mmcf/d) of gas. A 
more ambitious plan, to install equipment to 
capture and sell liquid petroleum gases 
(“LPG”), would be a follow-on project which 
could add a valuable further income stream.
Meanwhile, however, the Board of Volga  
Gas	has	decided	to	preserve	the	financial	
strength of the Group and defer capital 
expenditures while oil prices remain at  
very low levels. For the time being,  
capital expenditure will be limited to 
completing payments for ongoing  
projects and necessary items to maintain 
producing assets.
A new commercial initiative that has been 
implemented is the development of a 
channel for exports of our condensate 
production. A small number of cargoes were 
exported in November and December 2015. 
It is our aim to provide a viable alternative 
for sales in the event that the local domestic 
market for condensate closes, as it did 
during a number of weeks in 2015.
Finance
In spite of the challenges mentioned above, 
the Group managed to maintain positive net 
cash	flow	from	operations,	although	as	a	
result of the capital expenditure incurred 
during	2015,	there	was	a	net	cash	outflow	of	
US$9.0 million. This includes a sum 
equivalent to approximately US$0.7 million 
lost from certain Group bank accounts as a 
result of unauthorised transfers in an 
apparent cyberattack. The Group remained 
in a net cash position and the closing cash 
balance at 31 December 2015 was US$6.8 
million with no debt.
Further development and exploration 
expenditures in 2016 and beyond have been 
deferred	until	the	Board	is	confident	that	
these can be funded from operating cash 
flow.	In	addition,	the	Group	may	consider	a	
moderate level of borrowing to be 
appropriate	to	fund	significant	value	
accretive investments such as the upgrade 
to amine processing at the gas plant.
Current trading and outlook
During January and February 2016,  
Group production averaged 5,632 barrels  
of oil equivalent per day, in line with 
management’s plan. The gas plant is 
consistently operating at planned capacity 
of 750,000 m
3
 per day, with condensate 
output running at over 1,700 barrels per day, 
the majority of which is being sold to export 
markets. International oil prices have 
recovered from the low levels seen in 
January, as has the Ruble. Oil production is 
now a minor part of the Group’s output and 
has	suffered	moderate	disruption	as	the	
mild	winter	caused	difficulties	in	
transportation of oil sales.
In the current environment, and at current 
production rates, management expects the 
Group’s	financial	performance	in	2016	to	
improve on that of 2015. Meanwhile, new 
capital expenditure commitments have 
been reduced to minimal levels – below 
US$1.5 million.
Andrey Zozulya
Chief	Executive	Officer
 S t r a te gic  
  Report
 C or p ora t e 
  Governance
Financial 
  Statements
