 04 Volga Gas plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 201 5
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Mikhail Ivanov
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
As anticipated by my predecessor in the 
2014 Annual Report, 2015 was a challenging 
year for the oil and gas industry worldwide, 
for Russia, and no less challenging for Volga 
Gas. The collapse in oil prices and in the 
value	of	the	Russian	Ruble	had	significant	
impact	on	the	financial	statements	and	the	
performance of the Company as reported in 
US Dollars. Furthermore, changes to the 
production tax formulae that came into 
effect	in	2015	meant	that	a	greater	
proportion of gross revenue was paid out in 
taxes than in previous years.
However, on an operational level, the results 
of 2015 were satisfactory. The development 
drilling on the Vostochny Makarovskoye 
(“VM”)	field	was	successfully	concluded	
during	the	year,	which	will	enable	this	field,	
the Group’s principal producing asset, to 
reach and sustain the planned plateau 
production rate of one million cubic metres 
per day of gas plus associated condensate. 
With	production	from	the	first	of	the	two	
new wells coming only in December 2015, 
this drilling activity did not make a 
significant	contribution	to	the	production	
for the full year. However, during mid 
December 2015, new production from the 
VM#4 well enabled total output from the 
VM	and	Dobrinskoye	fields	to	reach	the	
intermediate target rate of 750,000 cubic 
metres per day of gas plus 180 tonnes per 
day of condensate, in total approximately 
5,700 barrels of oil equivalent per day. This 
production is the core of stable production 
which provides the main cash generation 
engine for the Group.
The next strategic development to be 
undertaken is the further enhancement of 
the	existing	gas	processing	facilities,	first	to	
introduce	a	more	efficient	process	for	the	
sweetening of the gas and secondly to 
capture for sale the liquid petroleum gases 
(“LPG”)	that	are	currently	vented	and	flared.	
The	former	is	intended	to	achieve	significant	
cost savings and enable higher production 
rates of over one million cubic metres per 
day of gas, while the latter will provide an 
additional	and	potentially	highly	profitable	
product stream.
Meanwhile, however, the Group continues  
to	face	a	number	of	significant	challenges,	
not the least of which is the general 
economic situation in Russia, where the 
dramatic fall in international oil prices has 
had	a	significant	impact	on	the	domestic	
economy	as	well	as	on	the	profitability	and	
cash generation from our production.
While the Group remains in a healthy 
financial	position	with	positive	net	cash	
balances, the Board has made the strategic 
decision to preserve liquidity and to reduce 
capital expenditures to a minimal level. This 
means that the strategic investments 
outlined earlier will need to be deferred 
until cash generation recovers to a 
sustainably higher level than currently being 
experienced	or	acceptable	external	finance,	
consistent	with	a	prudent	financial	strategy,	
can be arranged.
Volga	Gas	continues	to	benefit	from	low	
operating	costs	and,	with	its	fields	based	
close to market, is able to operate 
profitability	even	with	significantly	reduced	
oil and gas prices. During 2015 there were 
periods when local market conditions  
made	it	difficult	to	sell	our	condensate	
production and during these periods, gas 
and condensate production had to be 
suspended. Towards the end of 2015, the 
Group developed channels for exporting 
condensate and consequently there are 
alternatives, albeit less economically 
attractive, to sales solely into the local 
domestic market.
The	Group	holds	significant	proven	reserves	
in	its	three	principal	fields.	These	reserves	
form the basis of sustainable production 
with growth potential in the near term. 
These assets provide a platform for the 
Group to grow in the future, both through 
successful exploration and by selective  
value accretive acquisitions. The Board 
believes that Volga Gas has a strong asset 
base	and	the	financial	and	operational	
capability to develop and extend these 
assets to provide long-term value growth 
for our shareholders.
Finally, I would like to pay tribute to my 
predecessor as Chairman, Aleksey Kalinin, 
for his leadership of the Company since its 
foundation and appreciation for his 
continued service as a non-executive 
director. I also welcome my successor as 
Chief	Executive	Officer,	Andrey	Zozulya,	
who assumed that position in May 2015.  
He has had to take up his responsibilities  
at a very challenging time in our industry 
and	has	the	full	support	and	confidence	of	
the Board as he manages the future 
development of the business.
Mikhail Ivanov
Chairman Volga Gas plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 201 5 05
 S t r a te gic  
  Report
 C or p ora t e 
  Governance
Financial 
  Statements
