 2 The Vitec Group plc
Performance and dividend
The Group delivered a good underlying performance in 2015 with the overall results 
reflecting the non-repeat of the 2014 Sochi Winter Olympics and FIFA World Cup  
and a negative impact from foreign exchange. The higher technology broadcast 
businesses have continued to grow well, while the traditional broadcast and 
photographic businesses have faced challenging market conditions. The Group is 
investing in its higher technology products and driving new product launches while 
taking proactive actions to streamline certain activities with lower growth prospects. 
These self-help actions are progressing to plan and some further actions are being 
taken to drive profitable medium-term growth despite uncertain market conditions.  
The Board remains confident about the Company’s future and we recommend a  
final dividend of 15.1 pence per ordinary share (2014: 14.7 pence). The final dividend, 
subject to shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General Meeting will be paid on 
Friday, 20 May 2016. This brings the total dividend for 2015 to 24.6 pence per share 
(2014: 24.0 pence).
Strategy and Board focus
The Board has continued to develop the Group’s strategy with its focus on our core 
Broadcast and Photographic markets particularly given the context of the fast pace  
of change in technology and market needs. In April 2015 we held an investor day 
for our major shareholders showcasing our key brands and growth strategy through: 
allocating resources to the fast growing independent content creator segment and 
a focus on content sharing opportunities; increasing resources, brand presence and 
sales in APAC; and continuing to make strategic acquisitions which make financial 
sense. Stephen Bird will give further explanation on progress against each of these  
in his report.
Chairman’s Statement
Total dividend for 2015
Recommended final dividend  
per share
Interim dividend per share
24.6 pence
15.1 pence
9.5 pence
The higher technology broadcast businesses have 
continued to grow well, while the traditional broadcast 
and photographic businesses have faced challenging 
market conditions.
Governance Report 
Turn to page 40
Chairman’s Statement 
www.vitecgroup.com/chairman
Up  
2.5%
Chairman John McDonough  
reports on performance Annual Report & Accounts 2015 3
Strategic Report Corporate Responsibility Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Independent Auditor’s Report Financial Statements
Governance and Board changes
The Board is responsible for setting the right tone from the  
top and ensuring that a robust governance structure is in  
place to enable the business to succeed and deliver long-term 
sustainable growth. As part of this responsibility the Board  
has continued in 2015 with its programme of visiting key 
operations and meeting as many people as possible, with  
a visit to Manfrotto in Italy that included a detailed update  
from the senior Photographic Division management team  
on market trends, product development, innovation and 
operations. This has built on the Board’s visit in 2014 to  
the Company’s West Coast Broadcast businesses in the  
US including Teradek and Bexel. We will continue with this 
practice in 2016 by visiting our operations and people on  
the East Coast in the US. Each individual Board member  
is also encouraged to visit our operations at their own 
convenience to further build on their understanding of   
the business.
To enforce the importance of good governance and setting the 
right standards throughout the Group, we have re-launched 
our Code of Conduct to all employees setting out the  
values and standards we expect in the conduct of business. 
This covers issues such as health and safety, conduct of 
employees, diversity, financial controls and business integrity, 
and is available on our website. We also undertook a re-
communication of our whistleblowing service in 2015 to further 
strengthen the importance of our governance processes.
In 2015 I have continued with my practice of meeting with 
several of our major shareholders to discuss the Company’s 
performance, strategic direction and governance 
arrangements.
During 2015, Carolyn Fairbairn stood down as an independent 
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee to take on a new role as Director-General of the 
CBI. Carolyn had served on the Board since February 2012 
and provided outstanding independent advice. This change 
necessitated our search for a replacement and we have been 
fortunate to secure the services of Caroline Thomson who  
was appointed as an independent Non-Executive Director  
and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 November 
2015. Caroline brings excellent skills and experience to the 
Board with her background working at the highest level in the 
BBC. Caroline has undertaken a thorough induction to the 
Group having already met with senior management and key 
advisors and will be visiting our key operations during 2016. 
As explained in my report in the 2014 Annual Report, 
Christopher Humphrey succeeded Nigel Moore as Chairman 
of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the Company’s 
AGM in May 2015. Christopher has successfully taken on  
this Chairmanship and ensured that there has been no break  
in continuity in this important role. Similarly, Mark Rollins at  
the conclusion of the 2015 AGM succeeded Nigel Moore in 
the role of Senior Independent Director and likewise has 
ensured a seamless transition, including leading the evaluation 
of my own performance as part of the 2015 Board evaluation. 
The Board now comprises seven directors and following our 
2015 Board evaluation we believe has the right balance of 
skills and diversity to meet the challenges the Company faces. 
The Board over the last couple of years has refreshed itself in 
terms of the independence of its Non-Executive Directors and 
continues to monitor its composition to ensure a structured 
process of succession delivering the right skills, experience 
and independence to support the successful execution of  
the Company’s strategy.
Building on the externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2014 
the Board set itself objectives for 2015, against which we have 
tracked progress. We have also carried out an internal Board 
evaluation in 2015 reviewing progress of the Board against 
these objectives and the Board’s overall performance against 
the agreed strategy, financial performance, governance, 
succession and Board dynamic. The detail of the 2015 
objectives and the Board evaluation is set out in the 
Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
Bill Vinten
The Board was sad to hear about the death of Bill Vinten  
in late 2015. Bill Vinten was a key founding figure in the 
Company’s business being instrumental in establishing the 
Vinten product name and our Broadcast supports business 
based in Bury St Edmunds. The Vinten name is synonymous  
in the broadcast market with quality products and Bill Vinten’s 
legacy is reflected in the quality of products produced and  
sold bearing the Vinten name.
Annual General Meeting
Our AGM will be on 18 May 2016 and the Notice of Meeting 
and explanatory notes accompany this Annual Report and  
can be found on our website. All resolutions will be conducted 
on a poll as in previous years. The Board believe that this is 
more democratic enabling the views of a wider number of 
shareholders to be taken into account by way of proxies being 
voted. All members of the Board plan to attend the AGM and 
look forward to the opportunity to meet with shareholders.  
The detail of the AGM resolutions is set out in the AGM  
Notice accompanying this Annual Report.
Our people
2015 has been a challenging year for Vitec with uncertain  
end markets and the need to restructure operations to achieve 
a good performance. This has been achieved through the 
dedication, passion and hard work of all our people. On behalf 
of the Board I would like to thank all of our people for their 
contribution in 2015. 
John McDonough CBE 
Chairman
22 February 2016
Strategic Report
