 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 06
Strategic Report
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Ronnie George
Overview
Our first full financial year as a listed company has been a successful 
one and I am pleased to report on a year of strong results. Volution 
has also made good progress in its strategy of making selective 
value-adding acquisitions. T wo acquisitions were made, Brüggemann 
Energiekonzepte GmbH based in Germany, completed in April 2015, 
and Ventilair Group International BVBA, based in Belgium and 
the Netherlands, completed in August 2015, both funded from 
the Group’s existing cash and banking facilities.
The integration of inVENTer in Germany was completed during 
the year with cross-selling of some heat recovery products from the 
Nordic ventilation business already underway. In the UK, at T orin-Sifan, 
significant investment was made in new product development and 
a new production facility was acquired. We also saw good organic 
growth (on a constant currency basis), especially in the important 
area of higher-value ventilation systems used in new residential 
dwellings and quieter, more efficient ventilation used for residential 
repair, maintenance and improvement (RMI) applications.
We have made good progress in product development, with 
a new range of application software (app) controlled, intermittent 
extractor fans and more energy-efficient heat recovery products 
which will be launched later in the 2015 calendar year.
Ventilation Group segment
Our Ventilation Group’s performance was very strong with a 10.0% 
increase in revenue on prior year (14.9% at constant currency). 
Organic growth was 1.9% (6.0% at constant currency). Inorganic 
growth of 8.1% (8.9% at constant currency) came substantially 
from Germany with the full year effect of inVENTer, acquired in 
April 2014, and the acquisition of Brüggemann in April 2015.
Sales in our UK Residential New Build sector were £17.2 million 
(2014: £14.6 million), growth of 17.7% (2014: 11.2%) with some 
niche areas such as retirement dwelling completions growing at 
Summary
 > First full financial year as a listed 
company, delivering both organic 
and inorganic revenue growth in 
line with our strategy
 > Another year of strong financial results 
despite foreign exchange impact, 
underpinned by an expansion of our 
adjusted operating profit margin to 22.6% 
and excellent cash generation
 > Considerable benefit from the now fully 
integrated Nordic ventilation business 
which delivered constant currency 
sales growth of 12.5% and significant 
operational synergies since the 
acquisition of PAX AB in August 2013
 > Two acquisitions completed, one during 
the year and the second on 5 August 2015 
just after the financial year end
 > Significant investment in new products 
and the commencement of production 
in the new Torin-Sifan facility at 
Westmead, Swindon Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 07
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
above market rates. As well as this growth in completions we are 
seeing a greater penetration of central heat recovery ventilation 
systems as the method of ventilation in many new homes. An ongoing 
product development pipeline in this market sector means that 
we will bring several new products to market later this calendar 
year. The new Kinetic Advance, launched to the UK sales team 
in June 2015, is expected to deliver the highest level of efficiency 
available in the UK Building Energy Performance Assessment. 
The UK Residential RMI market was soft with private refurbishment 
experiencing good growth offset by a continuing decline in public 
refurbishment, a more difficult market due to local authority austerity 
measures and cutbacks. This resulted in revenue in this sector of 
£36.6 million (2014: £37.0 million) a decline of 1.1% (2014: growth 
of 2.8%). New product launches in the public refurbishment market 
are taking hold and with further new products being launched later 
on in calendar year 2015, we expect to see a turnaround in sales 
in this market as we aim to capture greater market share. Our focus 
on the quiet, energy-efficient solutions for the private market 
continues to be well received with particular success of our 
national radio advertising campaign in July 2015.
UK Commercial sales were down 1.3% in the year at £16.2 million 
(2014: £16.4 million) having delivered good growth in the prior year. 
Our exposure is primarily to the RMI market which has performed 
less well than for new applications. The energy-efficient kitchen axial 
fan grew very well and a range of quieter, more energy-efficient 
commercial box fans will be launched early in 2016.
UK Export sales were £8.4 million (2014: £7.1 million), strong growth 
of 17.5% (2014: 2.0%), despite the strength of Sterling against 
the Euro (25.2% growth at constant currency) with the growth 
coming substantially from increased sales of heat recovery systems.
Sales in the Nordics sector were £22.2 million (2014: £22.7 million), 
a decline of 2.0%; however, at constant currency, growth was 12.5%. 
Sales of the market-leading, low-energy and near-silent ventilation 
products continued to grow during the year and in May 2015, at 
Elfack, the largest trade show of the year for the Swedish electrical 
products industry, we launched the new Calima fan, the first 
app-controlled extractor fan on the market. Organic growth in the 
Nordic region was very pleasing, especially in Norway where the 
combined Fresh and PAX sales team is working very efficiently 
with a much more comprehensive offer and improved service 
for the market.
Sales in the Germany sector were £10.9 million (three months of 
2014: £3.5 million). Whilst the German market has had its challenges, 
we have improved our position, including acquiring Brüggemann, a 
distribution channel in northern Germany, and by investing in new 
agents to provide a more comprehensive coverage in that market. 
OEM (Torin-Sifan)  segment
Our OEM (T orin-Sifan) segment’ s revenue in the year was £18.7 million 
(2014: £19.4 million), a decline of 3.6% (down 0.6% at constant 
currency), mainly as a consequence of lower sales of spare parts 
for non-condensing boilers due to a mild winter. There is a correlation 
between mild winters and lower sales of these replacement parts. 
The sales of gas boiler combustion motors therefore declined 
compared to the prior year although an improved performance 
was noted in the second half of the year.
Sales of electrically commutated direct current (EC/DC) motorised 
impellers continue to grow as this area is supported by the market 
growth, both in the UK and in continental Europe, for central system 
ventilation where these motors provide the air movement capabilities. 
Three strategic pillars 
Our strategy continues to focus on three key pillars:
 > organic growth in our core markets (which now extend 
through Ventilair Group to Belgium and the Netherlands);
 > growth through a disciplined and value-adding acquisition 
strategy; and
 > further develop Torin-Sifan’s range, build customer preference 
and loyalty.
Our core markets now extend to Belgium and the Netherlands 
with the acquisition of the Ventilair Group. These markets, as well 
as the original core markets for Volution, continue to benefit from 
the favourable regulatory backdrop that focuses on carbon reduction 
from buildings (in particular new buildings) as well as the need to 
improve energy efficiency. 
The European market remains highly fragmented and we continue 
to pursue acquisition opportunities. Our track record over the last 
three years, since the acquisition of Fresh AB in October 2012, 
has been to add several new markets to the Group’s reach and 
to improve substantially, the financial returns of these companies. 
Our centrally inspired and led, but locally managed, Research and 
Development function is now achieving new economies of scale 
when developing new capabilities, the most recent example being 
the software app controls, which, once fully completed, will provide 
controls to new products sold in the UK, Nordics and Germany. 
Over the last two years we have made a significant investment 
at Torin-Sifan in new product development and a new production 
facility to capitalise on the growth in demand for electronically 
commutated (EC) motors used in various residential and commercial 
ventilation products. The new EC production facility is now fully 
commissioned and operational and the product development 
of the new range of high performance air movement products 
is nearing completion. These new products will be launched 
in the first half of the 2016 financial year. 
People
In anticipation of our future growth plans and to provide the best 
possible foundation for our talented management team, it is our 
intention to launch the second Management Development 
Programme at the beginning of 2016.
I would like to acknowledge, thank and recognise all our committed 
employees for underpinning the success of the Group. Our employees, 
along with the management team, have made our first full year 
as a listed company a great success. I am extremely grateful to 
our employees for the considerable hard work and dedication 
to providing great customer service and satisfaction and also the 
way in which newly acquired Volution companies are integrated 
and made to feel welcome as part of the larger Group.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
16 October 2015
