 Strategic Report
Technology Highlight
With most ventilation devices being fixed 
appliances installed by professionals, 
historically, most home owners have little 
involvement with the ventilation solutions 
selected in their homes. This is changing. 
Air quality is high on the agenda and, through 
industry campaigns and regulation, it is only 
going to continue to become a greater 
concern for home owners. 
To ensure that we are ahead of the curve, we are investing 
in a Group-wide platform creating an app that enables any future 
products to have far greater interaction with the end users of our 
products. During 2015, we launched the first two products that 
enable adjustment and control remotely from a mobile device after 
they have been installed. This platform is also shared across the 
Group, enabling products to move between our businesses easily.
The first was the Calima fan in the Nordics. It has Bluetooth 
connectivity and customers can select and adjust the speed for 
each integral sensor individually, create programmed schedules, 
and select how they want the fan to run. For example, you may 
want the fan to run at a low speed via the integral light sensor but 
run on full speed via the humidity sensor for when the whole family 
is showering in the morning. With customisable, infinitely variable 
speeds and individual sensor selection, this is now possible. As a 
home owner, you can decide how your fan works and adjust it after 
it has been installed simply by downloading the app. The app also 
includes a schedule function enabling you to programme periods 
where you don’t want the fan to run. This may be ideal for ensuite 
bathrooms where you don’t want a fan to be running at night. 
The Kinetic Advance takes this logic one step further and enables 
end users to see maintenance schedules and other configurable 
settings. Additionally, the app provides easy and quick, one-handed 
speed selection during commissioning, so is ideal for installers 
rather than traditional controls built onboard the unit. This will 
substantially reduce the installation time, as often these products 
are installed in lofts or remote locations, making traditional 
methods time consuming. 
Personalisation of air 
movement in your home
Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 18 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 19
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
During 2015 we have continued to grow in 
the new-build residential space. That has led 
to us winning a number of prestigious project 
orders through the Vent-Axia brand. With the 
ongoing regulatory pressures, indoor air quality 
requirements and impressive acoustic 
characteristics, many projects continue to have 
the Sentinel Kinetic range of heat recovery 
devices specified. 
The Sentinel Kinetic is a pioneering mechanical ventilation with 
heat recovery (MVHR) system designed for new-build properties. 
A whole house, multi-room ducted solution, this MVHR system 
combines supply and extract ventilation in one unit. Warm, moist 
air is extracted from “wet” rooms through ducting and passed 
through the heat exchanger before being exhausted to the outside. 
Fresh incoming air is preheated via the integral heat exchanger 
which recovers more than 91% of the heat energy that would 
otherwise be wasted. With comfort key for occupants, the system 
also features a “summer bypass” to prevent warm air being 
re-introduced in summer months and an integral humidity sensor 
to control air humidity levels. 
Below are two projects announced in 2015 representing good 
examples of the Group’s ability to manage large scale projects 
through the new-build team.
MVHR – Elephant & Castle 
London, UK
Volution’s Vent-Axia division is supplying Sentinel 
Kinetic BH ventilation units for the 284 studio, one, 
two and three-bedroom homes in the new One The 
Elephant development in Elephant & Castle, London. 
Comprising an elegant 37-storey tower and four-storey 
pavilion building, One The Elephant will become a 
new focal point for the heart of Elephant & Castle.
MVHR – Enderby Wharf 
London, UK
Volution’s Vent-Axia division is supplying Sentinel 
Kinetic BH ventilation units for part of the first 
phase of 197 homes in the new Enderby Wharf 
development, a mix of one, two and three-bedroom 
apartments and duplexes on a site stretching 
across 200 metres of river front with west-facing 
views towards Canary Wharf and the City.
Case study Case study
 These projects both aim to blend new standards for sustainable, practical and 
contemporary London living. Heat recovery ventilation is an essential factor for 
energy-efficient developments, reducing excessive moisture in the air, combating 
condensation and providing good indoor air quality and comfort for occupiers.
Ronnie George
Chief Executive Officer
