 10 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
A strategy to deliver  
long-term growth 
Weir has chosen to operate in the minerals, 
oil and gas and power markets because  
they each have excellent long-term growth 
prospects: as the world’s population 
continues to increase and urbanise,  
it will need access to more energy and 
natural resources. While our end markets 
are subject to business cycles, they 
fundamentally offer excellent structural 
growth prospects and a solid platform from 
which to deliver sustainable returns for 
shareholders across the economic cycle. 
This is achieved by the successful execution 
of the Group’s clear strategy which relies on 
the hard work and dedication of our 16,000 
employees. I would like to thank them for all 
their hard work and commitment in 2014. 
A challenging year for commodity prices
A weaker than expected global economy 
coupled with increases in supply contributed 
to a very challenging year for most 
commodity prices in 2014. In mining, iron  
ore prices fell by almost 50%, and copper fell 
by 14%. Gold prices were broadly flat over 
the period and remained below the levels 
required to drive higher capital investment. 
However, growing ore production levels, 
combined with declining ore grades, 
supported increased aftermarket demand. 
The trend among major mining companies 
to reduce capital spending continued with 
an estimated 17% reduction in industry 
capital expenditure. There was a limited 
number of new, or greenfield, projects 
started and a cautious attitude towards  
plant optimisation or brownfield expenditure. 
These factors led to a further reduction  
in demand for original equipment. 
More positively, a number of greenfield 
projects in South America, which were 
approved in earlier years, moved from  
their construction phase to production 
during the year. Global ore production 
increased by around 3% in 2014 with  
strong iron ore production growth in 
particular. African mining markets were 
impacted by the Ebola outbreak in West 
Africa and by significant industrial action  
in South Africa, particularly the platinum 
miners’ strike through the first half of the 
year. Overall, markets in Australia, Brazil and 
China gained momentum. North America 
remained subdued while weak demand  
and geopolitical concerns in the east of  
the continent reduced activity in Europe. 
In oil and gas markets, a multi-year period  
of stability lasted until the fourth quarter  
of 2014 when oil prices experienced their 
largest fall since 2009. This reflected 
concerns that the global market would be 
over-supplied in 2015, as a result of strong 
production growth, particularly in North 
America, combined with relatively weak 
demand growth. International benchmarks, 
Brent and WTI, both fell more than 40%  
in the final three months of the year and 
continued to fall steeply in early 2015. 
Throughout 2014 North American natural 
gas prices remained below incentive levels 
despite a brief spike caused by the harsh 
winter at the start of the year. The average 
US onshore rig count increased 6% while 
the average number of wells drilled rose  
5% as a result of greater efficiencies. 
Pressure pumping markets benefited as  
US customers worked through their excess 
stocks, with frack fleet utilisation increasing 
to an estimated 87% from 82%, stimulating 
demand for original equipment, in contrast 
to recent overcapacity. Aftermarket activity 
was also supported by the trend towards 
more intense shale well completions as 
operators increased the number of frack 
stages per well, ran 24/7 operations and 
pumped higher volumes of water and sand 
per stage, leading to greater wear and tear 
on components.
The growing well count also ensured 
growth in pressure control markets which 
benefited from more complex drilling and 
completion solutions in higher pressure 
shale basins, with pad drilling techniques 
now used on the majority of well sites.
Across pressure pumping and pressure 
control markets there was a slowdown  
in activity towards year end as customers 
started to revise their spending plans  
to reflect the reduction in oil prices. 
Internationally, there were good activity 
levels in Saudi Arabia and increased 
production in southern Iraq. Mid and 
downstream markets continued to grow  
as a result of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) 
2014 showed the strength of our 
strategy and business model which 
continues to deliver sustainable  
long-term value for our shareholders.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
11 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
and refinery developments, particularly in 
emerging markets, although project delays 
were a common feature in the second half 
of the year.
North American hydro power markets saw  
a recovery after difficult conditions in 2013. 
Nuclear new build progress also increased 
including the announcement of the first 
development of a new nuclear power 
station in the UK for almost 20 years.
Our financial performance in 2014 
Overall, in a challenging year, order input  
in constant currency was up 9% on 2013, 
with each quarter ahead of the prior year 
comparator. Aftermarket input was up  
14%, driven by strong growth in Oil & Gas, 
positive trends in Minerals and good growth 
from Power & Industrial’s valve operations. 
This was offset by flat original equipment 
input across the Group reflecting sharp 
declines in greenfield mining orders and 
power project delays, offset by a 47% 
increase in Oil & Gas as demand for 
Pressure Pumping equipment recovered 
from the depressed levels seen in 2012  
and 2013. Aftermarket input accounted for 
67% of total orders, up from 64% in 2013. 
Group revenues were up 9% on a constant 
currency basis while the proportion of 
revenues from aftermarket sales increased 
to 66% from 63% last year. In Minerals, 
revenues were down 4% as aftermarket 
growth was more than offset by lower 
demand for original equipment. Both original 
equipment and aftermarket revenues in  
Oil & Gas increased by 32%, reflecting 
higher average rig count, increasing frack 
intensity and market share gains. Power & 
Industrial revenues were broadly flat, on a 
reported basis, following a £185m foreign 
exchange headwind. 
Group margins declined by 70bps on a 
constant currency basis. This reflected  
the impact of industrial actions in South 
Africa on Minerals’ margins and operational 
challenges in Power & Industrial. Combined 
with flat reported revenues, this translated 
into a 4% fall in underlying operating profits 
to £450m. On a constant currency basis 
operating profit increased by 5% and 
pre-tax profits by 7%, reflecting a record 
second half profit performance for the 
Group. After a £35m foreign exchange 
impact, chiefly as a result of the strength  
of Sterling compared to the US Dollar and 
emerging market currencies, reported 
pre-tax profits of £409m were 2% down  
on 2013. This foreign exchange exposure 
was largely translational and had limited 
impact on our competitive positioning.
Free cash flow decreased to £79m, 
reflecting investment in the first half in 
working capital to support record second 
half activity levels and £101m capital 
investment. Return on capital employed, 
excluding 2014 acquisitions, increased  
by 60bps to 18.1%.
Delivering our growth strategy
As the financial performance demonstrates, 
the Group’s strategy delivered good 
underlying constant currency revenue  
and profit growth in 2014. 
Our distinctive strategy and business  
model is supported by our four strategic 
pillars. Innovation, which has been part  
of the Group’s DNA since it was founded  
by two engineers almost 150 years ago. 
Collaboration, which brings colleagues, 
customers and suppliers together to help 
achieve better engineering solutions.  
Value Chain Excellence (VCE), which drives 
greater efficiency in our own operations and 
helps make our customers more effective. 
And finally, Global Capability, ensuring we 
are there wherever and whenever our 
worldwide customers need us.
These strategic pillars have helped underpin 
the Group’s past success and remain central 
to our future growth. In 2014, I am pleased 
to report we made significant strategic 
progress in all four areas.
Innovation is critical to the future success 
of a global engineering company. In recent 
years we have significantly increased 
research and development efforts to ensure 
we maintain our market leadership positions. 
In 2014, this has involved: the design, 
manufacture and installation of the world’s 
largest slurry pump in a mine in Chile; gaining 
market share through our new premium fluid 
end technology in oil and gas markets which 
also supports the reduction in breakeven 
costs in the unconventional industry; the 
launch of a new vertical slurry pump, which 
allows upgrades to take place at reduced 
cost to customers; and the commercialisation 
of a new turbine by-pass valve which was 
developed by Power & Industrial.
You can read more about our approach to 
innovation in the products and technology 
section on page 59. 
The Group’s commitment to Collaboration 
is aimed at ensuring the best ideas are 
shared among colleagues, customers  
and suppliers. It also means working with 
other companies, particularly where we  
can benefit mutual customers. That was the 
motivation for entering into a development 
agreement with Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC 
subsidiary MTU America. The agreement 
will see our engineers jointly develop 
purpose-built power systems for hydraulic 
fracturing that will be entirely integrated so 
that the engine, transmission and pump are 
specifically designed to work together in a 
complete packaged power system. This will 
meet customer demands for technology 
which increases flow and pressure rates  
and provides longer run times. 
Our collaboration with Anglo American,  
one of the world’s largest diversified  
mining and natural resources groups,  
was recognised with the award of the 
prestigious External Collaboration Award  
at the 2014 Procurement Leaders Awards. 
Our Global Framework Agreement (GFA)  
is designed to provide improvements  
in reliability and power savings by retro-
fitting Weir-developed technology to 
existing pumps. In doing so, the life of key 
components has doubled, and in some 
cases trebled, while power consumption 
has been reduced significantly. The division 
added a further GFA in 2014 with Kinross 
Gold Corporation, one of the world’s leading 
gold mining companies, which will see Weir 
Minerals become Kinross’ preferred supplier 
of a range of mining equipment. 
Value Chain Excellence (VCE) was 
introduced as a strategic pillar to recognise 
the importance of aligning our operations 
more closely to the specific needs of our 
customers – ultimately helping us achieve 
our ambition of becoming their trusted 
partner of choice. 
Revenue
£2,438m
0%
Operating profit
£450m
-4% 12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Delivering our growth strategy 
(continued)
In 2014, our continued focus on streamlining 
our operations and leveraging the Group’s 
global scale, helped improve customer 
responsiveness while at the same time 
supporting the Group’s overall performance 
through cost savings of £46m. A new VCE 
management system was developed to 
further integrate this approach across all  
of the Group’s businesses to support our 
culture of continuous improvement. 
Key to our success is the competitive 
advantage we derive from our Global 
Capability, ensuring Weir is wherever and 
whenever our customers need us. In 2014, 
this included extending our comminution 
strategy which has seen the Minerals 
division further expand its product offering 
into the crushing, screening and grinding 
segment of the mining mill circuit, which 
helps separate rock from ore. In addition to 
our own strong organic growth the Group 
acquired Chinese-American equipment 
provider Trio Engineered Products in 
October 2014. Trio’s crushing technology 
will extend Weir’s comminution product 
portfolio and give real scale in the domestic 
Chinese mining markets, while also 
providing opportunities for growth in  
the expanding US aggregates market. 
The Oil & Gas division extended its  
pressure control presence in Canada with 
the acquisition of Metra Equipment Inc,  
a small Saskatchewan-based wellhead 
manufacturer. Carefully selected and 
successfully integrated acquisitions are  
an important part of the Group’s growth 
plan and these acquisitions, along with  
the Board’s approach to Metso Corporation, 
demonstrate the range of large and small 
opportunities we continue to pursue to  
help accelerate our organic development.
The Group’s capacity in the growing  
Middle East market was extended with  
the opening of a new regional headquarters 
for the Oil & Gas division in Dubai. This will 
allow products to be manufactured locally 
for the first time, capturing opportunities  
as shale energy production internationalises, 
while also serving the region’s conventional 
wellhead market. 
Good progress was made in the planning  
for a best-cost campus in Malaysia which 
will include construction of a new foundry, 
machine shop and continuous rubber 
processing plant. Work is also under  
way to upgrade the Group’s Information 
Technology capacity including the roll- 
out of a common Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) across the Minerals division.
The Group undertook an efficiency review 
to identify areas to further align resources  
to capture future growth prospects. This 
resulted in a programme which will see  
the consolidation of a number of smaller 
manufacturing and service operations  
into larger facilities, improving efficiency 
and customer responsiveness while also 
maintaining appropriate capacity. It is 
estimated these changes will produce 
annualised savings of £35m; £20m of  
this benefit will be realised in 2015,  
with one-off exceptional costs of  
£49m recognised in 2014. The Group  
also recognised a non-cash £160m oil 
price driven impairment of Pressure  
Control goodwill.
In addition, the Oil & Gas division 
announced additional plans to reduce 
around 550 posts as a direct response to 
the sharp fall in oil prices and in anticipation 
of the consequent reduction in activity. 
When added to the efficiency review  
and other measures taken earlier in 2014,  
the Group will have reduced approximately 
1,200 posts across the workforce with  
the majority of these actions completed by 
the end of the first quarter of 2015. These 
have been difficult decisions but they are 
necessary to closely align the Group to 
current customer demand and position it to 
take advantage of future growth prospects. 
In 2015, additional exceptional costs of circa 
£20m, based on current cost reduction 
plans, are expected in relation to completion 
of the Group-wide efficiency review and 
additional measures taken subsequent to 
the financial year end in response to oil  
and gas market conditions. 
Globally, Weir has also continued to 
promote a working environment which 
allows all of our employees to achieve their 
potential. In 2014, we continued to offer 
comprehensive professional development 
opportunities and rolled out our refreshed 
values to our global workforce.
I would also like to record my appreciation  
to Steve Noon following his retirement as 
Divisional Managing Director of the Oil &  
Gas division. Steve was instrumental in  
the development of the division and its 
contribution to Weir’s growth story. He  
has been succeeded by Paul Coppinger, 
previously president of Weir Pressure 
Pumping, the division’s biggest business unit. 
In September, I was pleased to welcome  
the UK Prime Minister, David Cameron,  
to our facility in Yateley, Hampshire to  
see the hard work of our employees in 
serving the European minerals market.
Delivering on 2014 key priorities
In last year’s Annual Report, I set out  
a series of key priorities for the year:
Increasing technical differentiation 
through the pursuit of innovative  
new products.
The Group continued to invest in 
fundamental research and development, 
extending our product portfolio. This has 
included the development of new products 
which meet the demands of our customers 
including producing the world’s largest 
slurry pump. 
We have also increased academic 
partnerships with some of the world’s 
leading universities, including Imperial 
College, London to develop research 
programmes into new technologies.
Improving working capital performance 
by further extending Value Chain 
Excellence initiatives.
The Group continued to leverage its global 
scale to deliver significant procurement 
direct savings of £46m. Pressure Pumping 
reduced its older inventory by more than 
50% and there were significant reductions 
in working capital in Weir Minerals North 
America, but there remains more to do 
across the Group.
Further embedding safety at the  
heart of our culture.
The first stages of the Weir Behavioural 
Safety Programme have been adopted 
throughout the Group’s global businesses. 
Total Injury Rate fell by 20% in 2014. While  
I am pleased with this progress we must 
continue to focus on doing even better until 
we become a zero-accident workplace.
Fully capturing growing aftermarket 
opportunities in Minerals and 
accelerating progress in our 
comminution strategy.
The Minerals division completed the 
acquisition of Trio Engineered Products, 
helping accelerate organic growth in its 
comminution strategy. It also benefited 
from the first aftermarket orders for its 
recently introduced range of High Pressure 
Grinding Rolls (HPGRs). Comminution 
orders increased 63% year on year and 
aftermarket orders were up 86%.
Driving growth in frack rentals, flowback 
and broadening international oil and  
gas opportunities.
Pressure Control frack rentals and zipper 
manifolds gained market share. There was 
strong growth in the Middle East, including 
opening a new regional headquarters and 
manufacturing facility. Pressure Pumping 
opened two new service centres in China.  
A large order was won in Australia for our 
combined Pressure Pumping and Pressure 
Control offering in the country.
Accelerate Valves growth, building on  
a strengthened operational platform.
Aftermarket order input growth of 26% 
followed increased targeting of the Power & 
Industrial division’s installed base of original 
equipment. There was good growth in some 
markets but others were impacted by project 
delays. Overall, orders were broadly flat.  
A restructuring programme to save £10m 
across the division and increase efficiency  
in the supply chain and Valves operating 
structure is being implemented. Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
13 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
2014 demonstrated the strength of  
Weir’s strategy and aftermarket-focused 
business model as we captured good 
growth opportunities in fast changing 
markets. Significant progress was made  
in developing new products, working in 
partnership with customers, expanding  
into new markets through the acquisition  
of Trio, and streamlining our operations to 
maintain cost competitiveness.
Outlook
Weir’s global market leadership positions 
and the significant strategic progress the 
Group has made in recent years mean it is 
well placed to benefit from the structural 
growth trends in our key end markets. 
Long-term growth in demand for energy 
and commodities will be driven by 
increasing world population and accelerated 
by greater urbanisation. In addition, the 
Group will benefit from the need for more 
complex engineering solutions to replace 
depleting natural resources.
In 2015, global GDP is expected to  
continue to increase. However, uncertainty 
over the pace of that growth, combined 
with growing supply, is expected to  
lead to continued price volatility in many 
commodities including copper and oil,  
the Group’s two largest exposures.  
We will continue to make progress in 
delivering our strategy while remaining  
agile in responding to market conditions  
as they evolve. The Group has already  
acted following steep price declines  
in key commodities, particularly oil,  
by taking additional measures to  
reduce operating costs.
While visibility in oil and gas remains 
limited, it is clear these initiatives will only 
partly offset the impact of a substantial 
reduction in demand and the associated 
pricing pressure. As a result we are  
planning for a significant reduction in 
constant currency Group revenues and 
lower operating margins in 2015. However, 
we will continue to invest in extending  
the Group’s global leadership positions  
and increasing market share, supported  
by a strong balance sheet and the cash 
generative nature of the Group. 
 
2015 priorities
1. Deliver benefits from the Minerals 
facility restructuring programme, the 
integration of Trio and the investment in 
a common Enterprise Resource Planning 
(ERP) platform. 
2. Ensure agile response to oil and gas end 
market conditions and maximise 
opportunities from new product launches.
3. Drive improved performance in Power  
& Industrial, including benefits from 
divisional reorganisation.
4. Accelerate pace of new technology 
developments.
5. Drive reductions in lead times and 
working capital through application  
of the Value Chain Excellence roadmap.
Keith Cochrane
Chief Executive
25 February 2015
UK Prime Minister David Cameron 
visits Weir Minerals Yateley site  
in Hampshire, UK.
