 6 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s Statement 
Responding to fast- 
changing markets
Results
Reported revenues were stable at  
£2.4bn, with pre-tax profits from continuing 
operations, before exceptional items  
and intangibles amortisation, of £409m:  
a slight decrease of 2% on 2013. Revenues 
and operating profits were affected by 
movements in foreign currency exchange 
rates, an issue which impacted the majority 
of UK listed corporations with substantial 
operations overseas. In 2014, 95% of the 
Group’s revenues were generated outside 
the United Kingdom. On a constant currency 
basis, revenues were 9% higher year on 
year with pre-tax profits increasing 7%.
The Group’s robust underlying performance, 
in a very challenging end market environment, 
is a tribute to Weir’s 16,000 people and their 
continuing commitment to delivering the best 
engineering solutions in the oil, gas, minerals 
and power industries we serve.
Dividend 
We are proposing a final dividend payment  
of 29p per share, making 44p for the full 
year, an increase of 5% and marking the  
31st consecutive year of dividend growth  
for the Group. The Board rebalanced the 
phasing of dividend payments across  
the year with the interim dividend now 
representing around one-third of the  
total payment.
Our markets in 2014 
Commodity prices declined as the year 
progressed as a result of increased supplies 
and weaker than expected global economic 
growth, particularly in China. Upstream oil 
and gas markets in North America grew 
strongly over the year, with technology  
and operational enhancements enabling 
operators to reduce their breakeven costs 
substantially. However, at the end of 2014 
we saw the first sign of the impacts on 
industry activity of a very significant fall  
in oil prices, which has continued into 2015. 
In mining markets, major commodities  
also suffered significant price reductions  
in 2014, most notably iron ore, although  
ore production levels continued to increase 
and supported aftermarket demand. Power 
markets were generally weak, reflecting 
global economic sentiment.
These market conditions posed challenges 
for the Group but one of the great advantages 
of Weir’s long history is our experience  
in responding rapidly to changing market 
conditions. We have developed a strong 
business platform but have maintained the 
agility to act quickly where it is necessary  
to support performance and promote the 
long-term interests of shareholders.
In 2014, this was demonstrated with  
the Oil & Gas division’s response to the 
speedy recovery in unconventional upstream 
North American markets. 
It showed the necessary flexibility to seize 
opportunities as they emerged, increasing 
market share. 
Following the change in market sentiment, 
the division took early action at the end of 
2014 to reduce costs and position itself to 
respond to much tougher market conditions. 
Similarly, the Minerals division responded  
to continued reductions in spending by 
mining companies by consolidating its 
manufacturing footprint to increase 
efficiency and competitiveness. In Power  
& Industrial, the division restructured  
its operations to align them more  
closely with future growth prospects.
You can read more about the performance 
of all three divisions in the operational 
review section starting on page 32. 
Strategy 
This was my first full year as Chairman  
and it has been a great pleasure to 
reacquaint myself with a company which 
has played such a large part in my family’s 
life. My father worked for Weir up until  
his retirement and I was fortunate to  
serve as an apprentice with the Company 
before beginning my engineering studies at 
university. The Group has been transformed 
in the intervening years but I am glad to 
report its commitment to innovation and 
serving its global customers remains as 
strong as ever.
2014 saw the Group return to good 
constant currency growth as it 
benefited from its market leadership 
positions and strong aftermarket focus.
Charles Berry
Chairman Strategic Report Financial Statements Corporate Governance
7 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
This is demonstrated in the Group’s  
strategy of building a strong installed base 
of highly engineered original equipment and 
supporting it with a market-leading service 
centre network, ensuring we can be highly 
responsive to our customers’ aftermarket 
demands for replacement parts and 
services. Chief Executive Keith Cochrane 
details the Group’s strategy in action from 
page 10.
The Group has continued to accelerate  
its strategy through carefully targeted 
acquisitions. This was the case with  
the purchase of Chinese-American 
equipment provider Trio Engineered 
Products. It complements Weir Minerals’ 
organic entry into the comminution 
segment of the mining mill circuit for 
crushing, grinding and screening. Earlier  
in the year, the Board made a merger 
approach to Finnish mining equipment 
maker Metso Corporation. However,  
Metso rejected our proposal and as a 
consequence, the offer was withdrawn.  
The Board’s approach to mergers  
and acquisition activity is to focus on 
opportunities that fit our strategy but  
also meet our strict financial criteria.  
Indeed, the financial strength of the Group 
was emphasised by the award of strong 
investment grade credit ratings during 2014.
Safety 
As a Board, we are proud of the many 
achievements in 2014 but the continued 
improvement in the Group’s safety 
performance is particularly important  
with the Total Incident Rate falling 20%. 
Keeping our people safe is the first agenda 
item on every Board meeting and we are 
determined to achieve our ambition of 
making Weir a zero-accident workplace. 
A proud partner in our communities 
The Group has reinvigorated the culture  
and values which have defined the business 
throughout its long history: focusing on  
our customers’ needs now and in the 
future; innovating and consistently 
delivering high quality products and 
services; supporting each other as  
we work towards a common purpose;  
and acting with integrity, supported by  
a refreshed code of conduct. You can  
learn more on page 67.
As a company operating in more than 70 
countries, our people call many communities 
home. Weir spent £1.2bn in 2014 on our 
supply chain, helping to create and support 
employment around the world. The Group 
also devoted approximately £600,000 to 
local charitable causes, with a special  
focus on health and education.
During 2014, we continued to strengthen 
many of our sustainability programmes.  
I was pleased to see a significant increase  
in our score under the ‘CDP Climate Change’ 
programme for the quality, transparency  
and completeness of information; in 2014 
we achieved 90%, compared to 77% in 
2013. It is rewarding to receive this external 
recognition of our progress, particularly for 
the many people who have contributed to 
our energy and carbon reduction initiatives.  
I recognise the efforts that all of our 
colleagues have made in this area and would 
like to thank them for their continuing work. 
We have also reviewed how we identify  
and assess sustainability business risks  
at a Group level and are in the process of 
completing a formal materiality assessment 
to confirm those sustainability issues most 
important for our business. We recognise 
the importance of the wider value chain to 
our business success and have therefore 
considered, not only our own operations  
in the assessment, but also those of our 
customers and suppliers.
The Group was happy to support our home 
city of Glasgow as it hosted the successful 
2014 Commonwealth Games. In a historic 
year for Scotland, the Group was pleased  
to make a constructive contribution to  
the constitutional debate which included 
publishing a report about the potential 
implications of independence for the 
business community.
The Board
As part of the Board’s annual programme, 
we visited the Group’s new regional 
headquarters in Dubai in the United Arab 
Emirates. The facility builds on the long-
standing success we have had in the region 
since first setting up a business in Dubai  
in 1976 and reflects the opportunities for 
future growth in this strategically important 
part of the world. 
We also expressed our appreciation to Lord 
Robertson of Port Ellen, who retired from the 
Board on 31 January 2015. Lord Robertson 
was an invaluable source of wise counsel  
to his fellow Board members over the  
past decade and I would like to take this 
opportunity to publicly thank him again  
for his commitment to the Group and his 
contribution to the success of the business 
in that period.
Rick Menell, who has been a Non-Executive 
Director since 2009, succeeded Lord 
Robertson as Senior Independent Director.  
I was also delighted to welcome Professor 
Sir Jim McDonald, Principal and Vice 
Chancellor of the University of Strathclyde, 
as a Non-Executive Director. Sir Jim is  
one of the UK’s leading engineers and 
academics and he brings to the Board  
a wealth of experience in industry and 
developing world class research and 
development programmes. 
As we look forward to the rest of 2015,  
our end markets will undoubtedly be 
challenging, but Weir has substantial 
experience of managing changes across  
the economic cycle. The fundamental 
drivers of our long-term growth remain 
intact, our strategy is clear and we have  
a team with a strong record of delivery.  
This combination gives me great confidence 
in our ability to safely navigate the 
headwinds we face and continue to  
provide value for all shareholders. 
Charles Berry
Chairman
25 February 2015
