 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
WANdisco made further progress against its strategic aims, 
scaled up its partner activities and controlled costs well.
 
WANdisco has a high 
potential operating 
platform for 2016. 
Paul Walker, Chairman
WANdisco’s replication products have 
become well known in the marketplace for 
providing unrivalled availability and resilience 
for both mission-critical operating data and 
software application code.
Our underlying replication technology 
remains leading edge and its reputation 
has been enhanced over the year by the 
award of further patents in addition to those 
secured in previous years. The products we 
have built on this replication technology are 
unique in the way they enable synchronisation 
and availability across globally distributed 
organisations. In the Big Data market, we 
have demonstrated this in numerous customer 
trials and also with our current six live customers. 
During the year, we progressed from a handful 
of pilot customers to 26 licensed customers.
The Big Data market opportunity remains 
significant. During the year there has been 
an increasing involvement of the data and 
storage platform vendors, whose offerings 
originated outside Hadoop but are now 
integrated with Hadoop to form universal 
data platforms. Our product and partnerships 
have evolved to address this mixed-storage 
world including emerging cloud data platforms.
Our go-to-market activities have been 
stepped up in the year. With global data 
platform partners such as Oracle, IBM and 
Amazon, we have progressed with sales 
campaigns, technical integration and 
sales fulfilment processes. In addition, our 
direct salespeople continue to generate 
opportunities with global corporations. 
Whilst the timing of contract wins has been 
variable, we have continued to attract major 
global corporations. Our customers yield 
multi-year revenue streams through long-term 
subscriptions, and also scale up their solutions 
by adding more users, replicating more data 
over time and adding more data. In 2015, this 
started to happen for the first time in Big Data, 
to add to the revenue from the more 
established ALM product.
FIND OUT MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS 
MODEL ON PAGE 10
During the year we completed some significant 
investments in product development, using 
funds secured through a successful equity 
fundraise at the start of the year. Now that both 
our Big Data and ALM products have matured, 
we have started to reduce costs significantly, 
and in so doing have shown operational agility 
and discipline. Our EBITDA loss for the year 
narrowed compared with 2014. 
We have maintained and developed the 
skilled teams developing our products 
and sales channels. With our exciting 
partnerships, expanding customer base, 
and lowered cost base, WANdisco has a 
high potential operating platform for 2016.
People
The evolution of our strategy and the 
sharpening of our focus on the most attractive 
segment of our markets has been made 
possible by the unique skills and application 
of our experts in sales, business development, 
product development, customer support, 
administration and finance. The thanks of the 
Board go to all our people for their dedication 
to WANdisco.
Paul Walker
Chairman
24 March 2016
A KEY ROLE IN OUR 
MARKETPLACE
WANDISCO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 06
