 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
During 2015 we directed our efforts towards 
three key priorities. First, we removed costs, 
enabled both by the simplicity and openness 
of the Fusion product and by generalised cost 
disciplines across all operating functions. Second, 
we placed renewed emphasis on our ALM 
business, providing it with sales and marketing 
focus in market segments where we believe 
the most growth can be captured. This focus 
translated into an improved financial performance 
from ALM in the second half of the year. Third 
– addressing the opportunity where we continue 
to see the greatest potential for growth – we 
evolved our core Big Data offering, achieving 
important breakthroughs in our strategy of 
becoming the leading all-purpose data 
replication engine.
We brought our Big Data and ALM software 
products together on a single Fusion 
replication platform and extended the platform 
to encompass multiple types of data storage 
beyond its Hadoop origins. We refocused our 
ALM business on our leading position in 
distributed version control on the open source 
Subversion system, achieving improved sales 
results towards the end of the year. In the Big 
Data business, we added more customers, 
took the first six of them into live production 
and saw the first customers expand their 
contracts with us. We deepened our 
relationships with key data and storage 
platform partners.
Big Data
The Big Data marketplace evolved significantly 
during the year, broadening out beyond 
Hadoop platforms. Data continues to grow 
much faster than the budgets that enterprises 
can devote to storing it. Storage vendors 
have brought to market new data platforms, 
responding to their customers’ requirements 
to store and process data on combinations of 
Hadoop, more traditional but Hadoop-compatible 
platforms, and cloud data platforms whereby 
the customer does not have to own infrastructure. 
These new and hybrid environments have 
brought with them requirements to migrate 
data onto the new platforms without 
interruption to data processing, to back up 
data, and to synchronise active data between 
different locations and operations where 
it is being used. 
To address this emerging market for 
mixed storage, we evolved our product from 
Non-Stop Hadoop, which replicated data 
within single Hadoop distributions, to Fusion, 
which replicates data across multiple storage 
platforms. Fusion performs this mixed replication 
without the need for invasive access to the 
host platforms, making it easy for customers 
to install. We have integrated Fusion with the 
on-premise and cloud storage and analytics 
platforms of partners such as IBM, Microsoft, 
Amazon, Google and Oracle. 
Fusion ensures continuous data availability with 
guaranteed data consistency between data 
centres, high levels of processing performance 
to meet demanding service level requirements 
and, above all, cost savings from high utilisation 
of computing resource. Amongst our Fusion 
customers, the majority are taking Big Data 
into live operations rather than running trial 
projects or non-critical operations. New 
enterprise features in Fusion include two 
features that were granted new US patents, 
relating to addition and removal of servers, 
without downtime, from replicated data 
networks. This enables hardware and software 
upgrades, addition of new locations, data 
migrations and rollouts of new applications 
– all without interruption of service. 
SIGNIFICANT 
BREAKTHROUGHS
2015 was a breakthrough year in our progress towards 
becoming the leading all-purpose data replication engine.
 
Our presence in 
the Big Data market 
has taken a big step 
forward. 
David Richards, Chief Executive
WANDISCO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 07
STRATEGIC REPORT Big Data continued
During the year, we added 16 new customers 
to reach 26 licensed customers. All are large 
organisations in our key industry segments 
of financial services, government agencies, 
consumer products and telecommunications. 
Their business requirements combine regulatory 
compliance, customer analysis and storage 
cost efficiencies. 
All of our Big Data customers have intentions 
to scale up significantly their WANdisco 
solutions once their implementations are in 
live production, as they take more data into 
their mission-critical applications. The first 
six of our Big Data customers are now in live 
production. During the year we secured five 
contract expansions with existing customers, 
some of them even before the customer 
went into live usage of our product. 
ALM
We continue to see strong potential in the 
source code management segment of the ALM 
market that we focus on, as customers continue 
to move off old proprietary platforms and on to 
modern, agile open source platforms. Software 
development continues to become more 
geographically and organisationally distributed, 
bringing greater challenges in control and 
efficiency, both amongst software publishers 
and in industry more generally.
Our assessment of the ALM market confirms 
that we have the right products for the market 
at this stage in its evolution. Our product 
for Subversion fits with customers’ needs 
in replicated open source version control. 
There is untapped potential in traditional 
industries developing internal software, in 
addition to newer software vendors developing 
gaming, media and mobile applications 
for consumers.
We have high credibility in Subversion, a 
good track record and over 200 Subversion 
customers, from which we consistently get 
high satisfaction ratings given the quality 
of our support.
Our core ALM product Subversion Multisite 
Plus has been upgraded to incorporate 
improvements in performance, resource 
utilisation and administration.
We have refocused on ALM to restore an 
appropriate level of emphasis on this business. 
Sales and marketing activities have been 
reoriented to our Subversion product. We 
have directed sales prospecting efforts towards 
traditional industry segments where open 
source adoption is strong, and have renewed 
our focus on up-selling and renewals for our 
installed base of over 200 customers. Sales 
were impacted while we completed the 
changes, but results improved in the second 
half of the year and new sales bookings in 
the final quarter were the highest of the year.
Outlook
Our presence in the Big Data market 
has taken a big step forward, with our live 
customers demonstrating that our Fusion 
product for Big Data, in on-premise, cloud 
or hybrid environments, is highly relevant 
in its marketplace. 
Fusion is increasingly viewed as a crucial 
technology enabling customers to migrate 
onto our partners’ emerging cloud data 
platforms. With partners such as IBM, Amazon 
and Microsoft, we are working increasingly 
closely on data migration offerings and 
go-to-market activities.
Our product for Subversion 
fits with customers’ needs in 
replicated version control. 
Adding new customers
Cumulative contract wins
Developing our Big Data customer base
Installed base sales
All customers have scale-up intentions
H1 H2 H1 H2
2014 2015
H1 H2 H1 H2
2014 2015
4
10
20
26 6
2
1
WANDISCO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 08
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED  B U ILD IN G 
TRUST
Our Fusion product is proven in the marketplace.
Six global corporations have progressed in their 
implementations and are now in live usage – 
which ranges from first trial workloads to live 
customer-facing operations.
All are large-scale operations with exacting 
service standards promised to their stakeholders.
These and others will now be able to scale up 
and renew their contracts, which will progressively 
enhance the predictability of our revenue stream.
 6
live Big Data customers 
In our ALM business, we are pleased with our 
improved sales bookings towards the end of 
the year, responding to our increased focus 
on this market. Our offering remains well 
suited to today’s increasingly distributed 
software development operations, and our 
live customer base of over 200 corporations 
offers ample sales opportunities. 
We reduced costs progressively through the 
year. Whilst the timing of contract wins remains 
variable, we are confident that WANdisco enters 
2016 on a strengthened operational footing 
and is moving significantly closer to cash flow 
break-even. With a compelling product for Big 
Data in the cloud, increasing engagement of 
partners and a well established ALM product, 
we expect to build momentum through the 
rest of this year.
David Richards
Chief Executive
24 March 2016
Industry spread with hotspots in regulated industries
Six Big Data customers now live
Financial services
Utilities and telecoms
Consumer goods
Information technology
Healthcare and public 7%
10%
10%
31%
42%
WANDISCO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 09
STRATEGIC REPORT
