 Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s Statement
Peter Hill, CBE
Dear Shareholder,
Welcome to the Volution Group plc Annual Report 2015, where 
we look back on another year of growth for the Group, building 
momentum for the future.
Our strategy remains unchanged. Organic growth combined 
with selective, value-adding acquisitions has supported the 
achievement of another year of strong growth in revenues 
and profitability. You can find further details on the Group’s 
three strategic pillars on pages 20 to 21.
Results
We are reporting a strong set of results for the financial year 
ended 31 July 2015 despite foreign exchange impact, reflecting 
growth, both organically* and through acquisitions, with Group 
revenue increasing by 7.9% to £130.2 million. Adjusted operating 
profit was £29.4 million, representing 22.6% of revenue and a 
£4.1 million improvement compared to the prior year pro-forma 
adjusted operating profit. The basic and diluted earnings per share 
for the year was 5.9 pence (2014: loss of 14.0 pence). Our adjusted 
earnings per share was 11.0 pence, a significant 25.0% increase 
over the pro-forma adjusted earnings per share for the prior year 
of 8.8 pence. Cash generation was strong with adjusted operating 
cash flow of £27.6 million (2014: £22.8 million). Our growth this 
year also benefited from the first full year of trading from our 
acquisition of inVENTer in Germany in April 2014. More difficult 
trading conditions were experienced in our OEM (Torin-Sifan) 
Summary
 > Successful first full financial year 
as a premium listed company
 > Strong set of results 
 > Performance in 2015 delivered 
strong momentum
*  Organic growth is a like-for-like measure of business performance (also calculated 
at constant currency to eliminate translation effects on consolidation). It includes 
the growth of recent acquisitions over the like-for-like performance of the acquired 
business in the corresponding period, irrespective of ownership, expressed as 
a percentage of prior year reported revenue. Volution Group plc
Annual Report 2015 05
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Additional Information
division with a warm winter reducing demand for some of our 
boiler spares products which resulted in a flat year-on-year 
performance in that division. 
In February 2015, the Group refinanced its bank debt and now has 
in place a £90 million revolving credit facility, maturing in April 2019. 
This new facility is provided under standard Loan Market Association 
terms and replaces the Group’s old facilities. The new facility is 
provided at a lower margin than the old facilities and the covenant 
headroom has improved. At 31 July 2015 the consolidated leverage 
ratio was 0.66%; therefore, the margin should drop to 1.00% from 
1.25%. The refinancing allows the Group to invest organically 
and in strategic acquisitions, strengthening our offering and 
geographical footprint. 
Acquisitions
During the year, Volution made good progress in its strategy 
of making selective value-adding acquisitions. The acquisition 
of Brüggemann Energiekonzepte GmbH, based in Germany, 
was completed in April 2015. Immediately after our financial year 
end (5 August 2015) the acquisition of Ventilair Group International 
BVBA, based in Belgium and the Netherlands, was completed 
and is therefore not consolidated into the Group’s financial 
statements for the year ended 31 July 2015. Both acquisitions 
were funded from the Group’s existing cash and banking facilities. 
As a Board, we evaluate each acquisition opportunity very carefully 
to ensure that it meets our strategic objectives as well as the 
financial hurdles set for investment. More details can be found 
in the Chief Executive Officer’s Review and in the Financial Review. 
Both of these acquisitions are on track to deliver revenue and 
profit growth for the Group and have been earnings enhancing. 
We very much welcome the employees of both these 
companies into the Volution Group.
Dividends
In line with our proposed dividend policy we paid our maiden interim 
dividend of 1.05 pence per share in May 2015. On the basis of our 
strong results, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 
2.25 pence per share, giving a total dividend for the financial year 
of 3.30 pence per share (2014: £nil per share). Subject to approval 
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 15 December 2015, 
the final dividend will be paid on 18 December 2015 to shareholders 
on the register at 27 November 2015.
Health, safety and environment
The Group remains committed to continuous improvement in 
health, safety and environmental matters. We remain diligent 
in monitoring and improving our processes and activities which 
have an impact on our customers, people and the environment. 
I recommend that you read the Corporate Social Responsibility 
section on pages 28 to 29 for further details.
Governance
The Group is committed to high levels of corporate governance, 
in line with its status as a company with a premium listing on the 
main market of the London Stock Exchange. During this first full 
year as a listed company, the Board and its Committees have 
settled into a pattern of business in line with the financial cycle. 
I can also confirm that, as promised in last year’s Annual Report 
and Accounts, the first Board and Committee performance 
evaluations have been undertaken. I recommend that you 
read the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 44 
for further details. 
People
Volution’s success is dependent on the positive interaction 
between the Group’s employees, customers, suppliers and 
other stakeholders. We have an outstanding and committed 
group of employees and, on behalf of the Board, I would like 
to thank everyone for their hard work, commitment and 
contribution towards the Group’s performance making this 
another successful year. 
There have been no changes to the Group’s remuneration policy 
which was approved at the Annual General Meeting in 2014, details 
of which are contained in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
pages 53 to 68. In that report you will also see that our Executive 
Directors have received a salary increase of 1% with effect from 
1 August 2015 which is in line with the average pay increase 
awarded to our employees in the UK. The interests of our 
Executive Directors and the Senior Management T eam remain 
completely aligned to those of our shareholders, with a significant 
portion of their remuneration being tied to performance targets, 
together with their significant shareholdings.
Outlook
Our strong performance during the year has built momentum for 
the future. We have executed on our strategy with good organic 
growth and completed two earnings enhancing acquisitions (one 
just after the financial year end), increasing our footprint across 
continental Europe. With a clear strategy and our experienced 
management team, we remain confident that the business is well 
positioned for further growth, and we expect to make continued 
progress in the coming year.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
16 October 2015
Our strong performance 
during the year has built 
momentum for the future.
Peter Hill, CBE
Chairman
