 6
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
2015
2014
2013
2012
Revenue £million 
83 
78 
76 
74 
2015
2014
2013
2012
Adjusted operating margin %** 
10.0 
9.6 
8.7 
8.1 
2015
2014
2013
2012
Adjusted earnings per share pence* 
11.64 
11.30 
9.41 
8.21 
CHIEF
EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
I am pleased to report that the Group continues to 
make strong growth in both sales and profits and 
to further implement its strategy.
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
I am pleased to report that the Group 
continues to make strong growth in both 
sales and profits and to further implement 
its strategy, which comprises:
• International expansion 
• Market penetration 
• Lifestyle product extension 
• British manufacturing capability 
• Acquisitions 
Additional information on the Group’s 
strategy is given in the Strategic Report on 
page 8. Further analysis of the key factors 
impacting revenue and operating profit of 
our Brands and Manufacturing divisions has 
been included in pages 26 to 35 which, 
when taken with the information provided 
below form the Chief Executive’s Review.
The Brands
This segment incorporates global trading 
from our internationally recognised brands 
and includes our overseas subsidiaries in the 
US and France.
In order to fully leverage our global 
brand assets we have recently made some 
important organisational changes including 
the creation and appointment of three new 
senior operational roles: Design Director 
Brands, Marketing Director Brands, and 
Licensing Director Brands. These 
appointments will play a critical role in 
further developing and delivering our 
strategic ambitions by bringing together  
the management of the Brands.
Total Brands sales increased by 6.4% 
compared with last year to £64.7 million as 
a result of continued investment in design, 
marketing and distribution, and from new 
product launches. This has led to a 12.1 % 
increase in operating profits to £7.4 million.
In the UK, Brands sales increased 10.3% 
to £38.5 million driven by the recovery of 
the UK economy and consumer confidence, 
together with a resurgence in the 
contracts division. 
Despite challenging market conditions, 
Western Europe Brand sales have increased 
4.8% in reportable currency, 11.4% in 
constant currency, to £7.0 million with most 
regions performing strongly, particularly 
Southern Ireland. Other highlights include 
sales in the Middle East, up 20.1 % in 
constant currency, to £1.0 million and 
growth in Australasia, up 14.2% in constant 
currency, to £1.1 million. 
* Adjusted earnings per share excludes the accounting 
charges relating to share-based incentives and 
defined benefit charge and the deferred tax credit 
arising from the share-based incentives.
** Adjusted for accounting charges relating to share-based 
incentives and defined benefit charge. 7
WALKER GREENBANK PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2015
Sales in the US increased by 0.7% in 
reportable currency, 5.1 % in constant 
currency. Sales in this important market 
were adversely affected by the total 
refurbishment and extension of our New 
York showroom. However, since it reopened 
with a major launch event in October of last 
year we have seen an improving trend in 
sales. We see the US as an extremely 
important opportunity for the Group.
Global licensing income is a key part of our 
strategy and an important income stream 
for the Group. Income was down 2.4% in 
reportable currency, up 3.6% to £2.1m in 
constant currency. Income has been 
impacted by the weakness of the Japanese 
yen and exceptionally strong comparators 
last year following the 150
th
 anniversary of 
Morris & Co.
Harlequin incorporating Scion 
& Anthology
Harlequin has grown its worldwide sales 
11.1 % in reportable currency over the same 
period last year to £29.0 million and remains 
the UK’s leading mid-market contemporary 
brand. Sales in the UK have increased 9.1 % 
driven by the success of its spring 2014 
launch, Jardin Bohème, and the 2014 
Momentum collections. In the US, Harlequin 
has seen significant growth, up 10.7% in 
reportable currency, 14.9% in constant 
currency and sales in Western Europe have 
grown 21.6% year-on-year in reportable 
currency, 29.0% in constant currency, 
despite challenging market conditions. 
The Scion brand launched in February 2012 
continues to grow well. Its third collection, 
Spirit and Soul, launched in the first half of 
the year has been its strongest yet. This 
cutting edge brand is accessibly priced 
making it a success with young, aspirational 
and fashion-aware customers. Anthology 
was launched in April 2014 with two 
contemporary wallpaper collections, 
designed specifically for overseas markets 
though also available in the UK. Anthology 
sales have exceeded expectations and a 
third collection was launched in March 2015. 
It is intended to launch a range of 
Anthology fabrics in the current year to 
complement the wallpapers. A significant 
proportion of the sales of both Scion and 
Anthology were produced in our factories 
and therefore benefit from strong margins. 
During the year Harlequin moved to a 
substantially larger showroom in Chelsea 
Harbour, giving it much needed space to 
display its products.
Arthur Sanderson & Sons incorporating 
the Morris & Co brand
Sanderson sales were up 3.4% compared 
with the same period last year at £21.7 
million in reportable currency. The UK 
has been the driver of this growth with an 
increase of 13.7%. Sales in the US are down 
9.7% in reportable currency, down 4.7% in 
constant currency, sales in Western Europe 
are down 1.8% in reportable currency, up 
4.1 % in constant currency. Sales in the Far 
East are down 26.5% in reportable currency, 
down 26% in constant currency, as a result 
of major stock orders and a one-off special 
production last year not being repeated and 
the increase in consumption tax in Japan.
Zoffany
Zoffany is positioned at the upper end of 
the premium market. Total sales have grown 
by 4.5% compared with the same period 
last year to £11.2 million in reportable 
currency driven by sales of more recent 
collections. Sales in the UK have grown 
7.2% in reportable currency. Sales in the  
US are up 5.5% in reportable currency, up 
10.1 % in constant currency, sales in Western 
Europe are down 11.8% in reportable 
currency, down 6.3% in constant currency.
Warehouse
The transfer of wallpaper storage and 
distribution to a new additional distribution 
centre of 40,000 Sq. ft. was completed in 
May 2014 and has enabled us to continue 
delivering on our strategy through enhanced 
service levels. 
Manufacturing
Manufacturing has delivered another strong 
performance with both sales and profitability 
increasing to record levels. Total sales grew 
9.1 % to £35.1 million leading to an increase 
in profits of 19.5% to £3.7 million. 
Anstey
Anstey, our wallpaper printing business, had 
a very successful year with sales growing by 
9.1 % to £18.3 million. Third party sales in 
the UK were up 3.0% and third party export 
sales were down 3.6%. Internal sales to our 
own group brands grew by 17.6% as a result 
of a stronger launch of new wallpaper 
collections from the Brands this year.
During the year Anstey invested in a fourth 
digital printer and correlated digital 
sampling machine to provide additional 
capacity to meet demand. Investment  
has also been made in dedicated finishing 
equipment for digital product to create a 
market leading fully finished service. These 
investments have contributed to Anstey’s 
growth by enhancing capacity, capability 
and efficiency.
Standfast
Standfast, our fabric printing factory, has 
seen an increase in annual sales of 9.0% 
to £16.7 million. Third party sales in the UK 
grew by 13.2% with sales to our own Group 
brands increasing 7.7%.
Standfast continues to invest in digital 
printing and an additional fast-run printer 
was commissioned during the second half 
of the year together with an extension to  
its digital room to allow for future growth. 
Digital print sales have increased 50% 
year-on-year and now represent 32% of 
total revenue.
Summary
We continue to grow our brands both in the 
UK and internationally through continuing 
investment in design, marketing and 
distribution, and new product launches such 
as Scion’s third collection Spirit and Soul. 
Sales have also been boosted by the very 
successful launch of our international brand 
Anthology and a strong performance by our 
contracts division.
We are committed to invest in our British 
wallpaper and fabric printing factories to 
further enhance their innovative, added 
value techniques that we are able to offer 
customers. We have successfully launched 
our new industry-leading websites for  
our Brands, opened our new additional 
warehouse, completed the extension and 
redesign of our flagship showroom in New 
York, moved Harlequin into a substantially 
larger showroom in Chelsea Harbour and 
made some key senior appointments.
We will continue to focus on delivering 
against our strategy and the Board remains 
confident of our future growth prospects.
 
John Sach
Group Chief Executive
1 May 2015
