 Chief 
Executive’s 
review
New growth milestones for 2020 to reach 
around 85,000 Premier Inn UK rooms  
and Costa global system sales of around  
£2.5 billion.
2014/15 was an outstanding year for Whitbread 
with excellent levels of performance across all our key 
measures. High levels of employee engagement and 
customer satisfaction have supported impressive like  
for like and total sales growth which, together with our 
continued focus on driving efficiencies and disciplined 
organic growth, has produced a double–digit increase  
in profits and strong returns for our shareholders.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank each and every one of our 45,000 team members. 
It is their hard work, passion and commitment that makes Whitbread the successful and 
exciting company it is today. 
In 2014/15 we grew our total sales by 13.7% to £2,608.1 million. This growth in total sales was  
a combination of an increase in like for like unit sales of 6.5% and the continuing expansion  
of our network. Our strong sales performance translated into an 18.5% growth in our 
underlying pre–tax profit to £488.1 million and a 19.4% growth in our earnings per share.  
The combination of our growth in profit and good margins has produced a strong operating 
cash flow, increasing by 17.8% to £714.2 million. This in turn has allowed us to finance capital 
reinvestment in the business of £565.3 million. The Board has proposed a 21.2% increase in the 
final dividend, which would increase the full year dividend by 19.4% to 82.15 pence per share.
We have made some significant senior management changes to develop the next generation 
of leadership and to ensure that we have the talent to deliver our growth plans. After ten 
successful years within the Company, Patrick Dempsey, Managing Director of Whitbread  
Hotels & Restaurants, left the business in February and I would like to thank Patrick for his 
tremendous contribution over the last decade. Following Patrick’s departure, Paul Flaum  
was promoted to the position of Managing Director, Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants and  
we have created two new roles of Managing Director Premier Inn UK and ‘hub by Premier  
Inn’, and Managing Director Commercial and Premier Inn Germany, both reporting to Paul.  
We have also appointed a new Managing Director for WHR International to lead the 
development of Premier Inn in the Middle East, India and South East Asia. 
Our Customer Heartbeat
We put our customers at the heart of everything we do and use this powerful model 
throughout our business.
We create Winning Teams and better leaders by investing significantly in training and 
development programmes to help our people build their skills and careers. We are passionate 
about making everyday experiences special for our millions of customers and invest in high 
quality products and services to build market–leading brands, based on strong customer 
preference and loyalty. By driving sales and managing efficiencies we generate the margins 
and cash flow to both maintain a healthy balance sheet and finance continuing profitable 
organic growth.
Our growth milestones
We aim to deliver outstanding results for all our stakeholders as we strive to become bigger 
and better year after year. Over the past five years we have regularly laid out clear growth 
milestones for our two leading brands, Costa and Premier Inn.
• 
In April 2011 we announced our 2016 milestones to reach around 65,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to double Costa’s global system sales to around £1.3 billion. 
• 
In April 2013 we announced our 2018 milestones to reach around 75,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to double Costa’s global system sales to around £2 billion.
• 
In April 2015 we announced our 2020 milestones to reach around 85,000 UK Premier Inn 
rooms and to grow Costa’s global system sales to around £2.5 billion.
Andy Harrison
Chief Executive
Making everyday 
experiences special
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 8
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 9
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47
Delivering these ambitious growth plans requires sustained investment in our people, our 
brands and our infrastructure. This is against a backdrop of a UK economic recovery, which will 
bring more opportunities but greater competition for people, leadership talent and customers.
Investing in our people
We are committed to creating a great place to work for our 45,000 team members and the 
development opportunities which will help them realise their potential. 
As we pursue our new 2020 growth milestones we will create around another 15,000 jobs in 
the UK and we are targeting a significant proportion of these jobs to go to people who are not 
in education, employment or training. We are investing in skills and development programmes 
including our WISE programme (Whitbread Investing in Skills and Employment) which  
goes from strength to strength. In April 2015 we set new ambitious targets to deliver 7,500 
employment placements, 6,500 work experience placements and 6,000 apprentices by 2020.
This year over 940 team members are undertaking an apprenticeship and Costa will  
launch its first ever apprenticeship programme in summer 2015. We are actively involved in 
‘Movement to Work’, which is a collaboration of UK employers, committed to tackling youth 
unemployment through the provision of high quality vocational training and work experience 
opportunities for young people. We are also a founding member of ‘The Big Conversation’,  
an initiative which brings together hospitality businesses to provide young people with job 
opportunities and experiences in our industry. 
Ensuring we have highly engaged teams to deliver a consistently excellent service for our 
customers is critical to our success. We regularly ask our team members how they feel about 
working for Whitbread. This year we made some changes to our Your Say engagement survey 
to gain a deeper level of insight. I am pleased to say that we continue to achieve leading  
scores on engagement, significantly exceeding industry sector norms. We are also proud  
to be recognised once again in both The Sunday Times Top 25 Best Big Companies to Work  
For 2015 and the UK Top Employers’ Survey 2015.
Investing in our customer experience
Our 45,000 people are passionate about making everyday experiences special for the  
25 million customers we welcome into our hotels, restaurants and coffee shops every month. 
2014/15 has been a year of great guest scores and external accolades as our leading brands, 
Premier Inn and Costa, cement their positions as the UK’s favourite hotel chain and the UK’s 
favourite coffee shop. 
Key to building a strong customer heartbeat is our relentless focus on product improvement 
and we invest millions of pounds every year in refurbishing and re–imaging our hotels, coffee 
shops and restaurants as well as strengthening our digital and technological capabilities.  
As customers’ expectations and tastes become increasingly sophisticated, innovation is vital 
for us to stay ahead of the competition. This year we have launched a number of exciting new 
products including a range of new coffee blends in Costa, Old Paradise Street Limited Roasts, 
which are proving to be very popular with coffee lovers. Our new hotel brand, ‘hub by Premier 
Inn’ opened its first hotel in London’s Covent Garden and is already gaining good reviews  
on TripAdvisor. In our Restaurants business our new Beefeater, Brewers Fayre and Whitbread 
Inns brand propositions are performing well with customers enjoying the new menus and 
refreshed interiors.
Investing in growth
We are excited about the tremendous growth potential for our two leading brands, Costa  
and Premier Inn both in the UK and overseas.
In 2014/15 we opened 33 new Premier Inn hotels with 4,360 rooms which, including the 
closures of eight hotels, takes our UK rooms to 59,138. In Costa we opened 219 net new  
stores worldwide together with 777 Costa Express machines. Alongside our new Premier  
Inn hotels in the UK we constructed four new restaurants, reinforcing the unique Whitbread 
joint site model, consisting of a Premier Inn hotel adjacent to a Whitbread restaurant. 
Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
 
2014/15 has been a great year for our teams and 
customers with overall employee engagement at 78%, 
great customer satisfaction scores and prestigious  
awards to celebrate the strength of our brands. In 2015/16 we are increasing our planned capital expenditure to around £700 million as we 
open more hotel rooms, invest in our freehold pipeline (particularly in London) and deliver  
our refurbishment and maintenance programmes. With around 5,500 Premier Inn rooms and 
250 Costa stores planned to open in 2015/16, this fast–paced growth puts us well on track to 
achieve our 2016 and 2018 milestones. Overseas we continue to build brand presence. In 2014 
we announced our entry into the German hotel market with the purchase of a Premier Inn  
site in Frankfurt, in addition to securing a number of Premier Inn International management 
contracts. Costa is now in 30 countries and our equity businesses in China and Poland are 
making good progress.
The combination of disciplined organic network growth to achieve our 2020 milestones  
and a good return on capital will create substantial shareholder value.
Investing in ‘Good Together’ 
Good Together is our corporate responsibility programme and is a fundamental and integral 
part of how we do business at Whitbread. We know our teams want to be part of a company 
which is a force for good in the communities in which we all live. 
As we grow we aim to minimise our environmental impact, which is why we are committed  
to reducing the amount of energy and water we use and waste that we produce. Our growth 
also requires a supply chain that can grow with us, share our values and source products 
responsibly, according to the standards we set. In the year we developed robust sustainable 
supply policies, which require sound social, ethical and environmental practices within our 
supply chain.
I am proud of the work our teams do to raise money for our chosen charities, making a real 
difference to peoples’ lives and the communities in which we operate. We have now raised 
over £4 million for Great Ormond Street Hospital, helping to fund the development of the 
Premier Inn Clinical Building, and £7 million for the Costa Foundation, providing an education 
to over 30,000 children in coffee–growing communities. 
Our Good Together programme goes from strength to strength and we have already 
surpassed a number of our 2017 targets. Therefore, in April 2015 we announced new 2020 
targets across our three Good Together pillars of Team and Community, Customer Wellbeing 
and Energy and Environment. These targets are outlined on page 11 of this report.
In the following pages we have included more detail on the work our Winning Teams are doing 
to build a strong Customer Heartbeat and to drive Profitable Growth and create shareholder 
value. I hope you find this interesting and informative. 
My next chapter
After five highly enjoyable years at Whitbread, and over 18 years as Chief Executive of three 
different public companies, you will see that I have started planning my retirement from full 
time executive life. It is the people and culture of Whitbread which make the Company so 
special and successful. I would like to thank them all personally for all their hard work and 
support during my tenure as Chief Executive.
 
Andy Harrison
Chief Executive
27 April 2015 
Chief Executive’s 
review
continued 
Our first ‘hub by Premier Inn’ 
hotel is already gaining great 
reviews.
Our best ever bed provides  
our customers, young and old, 
with a great night’s sleep.
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chief Executive’s 
review 10
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
