 Chairman’s
statement
This is another good set of results, once again 
demonstrating the strengths of the Premier Inn and  
Costa brands.
The continuation of our successful strategy
I was delighted to be invited to become Chairman of Whitbread when Anthony Habgood 
stepped down at the end of August last year. Having joined the Company in a non–executive 
capacity in 2009, I was a member of the Board as the strategy that has been pursued  
in recent years was initially developed.
Whilst there is no plan to change our winning formula, we will not be complacent. It is 
important that we invest our resources wisely in order to provide sustainable value for our 
shareholders over the long term. As great businesses grow they must also improve and we 
intend to do just that for all our stakeholders.
Throughout this Report you will see references to our Customer Heartbeat schematic.  
It really encapsulates who we are and how we behave. It is about providing team members 
with fantastic career development opportunities, making everyday experiences special  
for our customers and growing our business in a profitable and sustainable way. All of this,  
whilst being a real force for good in the communities in which we operate.
Investing in skills and experience
This Company has always believed in providing opportunities for people to flourish. Indeed  
Samuel Whitbread began his own career as an apprentice and his son was one of the original 
lobbyists for a national minimum wage. I am proud to say that these core values are still part  
of the fabric of Whitbread today. 
The sheer scale of the Company enables us to provide great opportunities to thousands  
of team members. At Whitbread, there are no barriers to entry and no limits to ambition!  
In 2014/15 alone, we provided 1,318 people with the opportunity to manage one of our  
hotels, restaurants or coffee shops and 593 of these are managing their own business for  
the first time. The importance we place on providing opportunities for our team members  
is demonstrated by the fact that we are one of only four FTSE 100 companies to have 
appointed its Group HR Director to the Board.
It is not just about providing great opportunities for our current team members, but also  
about providing some excellent opportunities for young people to take the first steps in their 
career. This year we have created 3,000 new jobs in the UK and provided over 940 people 
with the opportunity to join our apprenticeship schemes. Young people bring fresh energy to 
the Company. They have the ability to provide a different perspective on life and to challenge 
the status quo. There is an old saying that ‘youth is wasted on the young’, but at Whitbread we 
value the youthful exuberance that our young team members bring and relish the opportunity 
to provide them with the platform for a successful career in the hospitality industry.
In the early weeks of my new role as Chairman of Whitbread I took the opportunity to travel 
around the country to visit a number of our outlets. Indeed, I am writing this on a Saturday 
morning in my local Costa store and I can see the Whitbread values living within our team, 
both in this store and wherever else I visit. I would like to thank all of Whitbread’s employees 
for their hard work and dedication in making every day experiences special for our customers.
Improving our customer propositions
I have great faith in the ability and desire of Whitbread’s people to provide our customers with 
an excellent level of service, but it is our duty to make sure that they are given a great quality 
product to sell. Whether it is improving our current businesses through regular refurbishments 
or the innovation of ‘hub by Premier Inn’ or Costa Express, we constantly strive to be our 
customers’ number one choice.
Richard Baker
Chairman
Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chairman’s 
statement 6
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142 Whitbread 
Annual Report and Accounts 2014/15
Chairman’s 
statement 7
Sustainable growth
Whitbread has grown rapidly in recent years and the pace of that growth is increasing. Indeed, 
as you will see on page 5, we have announced new growth milestones for 2020. As I said 
earlier it is not just about getting bigger, it is also about getting better. This means that we 
must invest wisely. As you will read in Andy Harrison’s report, we will invest more capital than 
ever before next year and we have developed a rigorous investment approval process to 
ensure that we invest effectively. 
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend of 56.95p per share, making a total dividend of 82.15p 
per share, up by 19.4%. The final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2015 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on 29 May 2015. The Dividend Reinvestment Plan, which was 
introduced last year, will continue to be operated. Details of how to participate in this plan can 
be found on the Company’s website.
Full–year dividend




p
p
p
p
Board
Anthony Habgood stepped down from the Board in August 2014 after nine extremely 
successful years as Chairman of Whitbread. For the last five of those years I had the privilege 
of serving on the Board under Anthony’s leadership and saw at first hand the significant 
contribution he made to Whitbread’s success. I would like to place on record my thanks, on 
behalf of the Board and all of our shareholders, for that contribution and I wish him every 
success in his role at the Bank of England.
In December 2014, we announced that Patrick Dempsey would be leaving Whitbread at the 
end of the financial year. Patrick has led Whitbread Hotels & Restaurants for more than six 
years. He is an outstanding hotelier and, under his leadership Premier Inn has grown rapidly 
from 32,600 rooms in 2007, when the brand was launched, to more than 59,000 rooms today. 
His personal passion for a great guest experience and high team motivation are evident across 
Premier Inn. On behalf of all my Board colleagues, I’d like to thank Patrick for all he has done, 
and wish him every success for the future.
Chief Executive succession
You will have seen that Andy Harrison has decided to retire from his position as Chief Executive 
of Whitbread by the end of our financial year ending February 2016. Whitbread has been 
extremely successful under his leadership and I would like to thank him for his personal 
contribution to the Company over the last five years and wish him well in his retirement from 
executive life. 
I am running a succession process and we will make an announcement as soon as we have 
made a decision.
 
Richard Baker
Chairman 
27 April 2015
Overview p1/3 Strategic report p4/47 Governance p48/81 Consolidated accounts 2014/15 p83/135 Company accounts 2014/15 p137/142
