 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
I am pleased to present my report on 
Wilmington’s results for the twelve months 
ended 30 June 2015. It has been a very 
positive financial performance providing the 
platform from which we are implementing 
our new vision and strategy. This new vision 
builds on the successful transformation of 
the business over the last few years and 
underpins our ambitions. The Board, our 
management team and our staff are excited 
and energised about the opportunities to 
drive Wilmington to the next stage in its 
development. 
The trends reported at the half year 
continued throughout the year, with 
continued strong growth reported from our 
largest and highest margin division, Risk 
& Compliance, supported by excellent 
revenue and contribution growth from 
our Finance division. The Insight division 
performed satisfactorily recording growth 
in both revenue and contribution albeit 
adversely affected by currency movements. 
As has been well documented we have 
continued to experience challenging trading 
conditions in our Legal division and as a 
result saw underlying revenue decline at the 
same rate that we saw at the half year. 
Revenue in the year ended 30 June 2015 
was up £5.1m (6%) to £95.1m (2014: 
£90.0m) and adjusted EBITA up £1.7m 
(9%) to £20.4m (2014: £18.7m). On a 
constant currency basis revenue was also 
up 6% and Adjusted EBITA was up by 
9%. The stronger relative growth from our 
higher margin businesses, combined with 
control of overheads has resulted in an 
improvement of 70 basis points in Adjusted 
EBITA Margin to 21.5% (2014: 20.8%). The 
growth in Adjusted EBITA combined with 
a reduced interest charge translated into 
Adjusted Profit before Tax up a pleasing 
£1.8m (11%) to £18.4m (2014: £16.6m).
Business strategy
As announced in December 2014 after 
an in-depth review of its assets and 
the associated market opportunities, 
Wilmington is further developing its 
business into a knowledge-based model 
and structure. This new structure will 
maximise Wilmington’s opportunities to 
help its clients to meet their information, 
education and networking requirements. 
As part of this evolution to a knowledge-
based model, Wilmington has become 
more focussed on its core offerings that 
provide high quality of earnings. This focus 
is reflected in the disposal on 31 July 2015 
of certain media assets from its Insight 
division and in the acquisition of Financial 
Research Associates (‘FRA’) on 6 July 2015.  
Vision
The vision which will act as our guide and 
underpins our strategy is:
“To be the recognised knowledge leader 
and partner of choice for information, 
education and networking in Risk & 
Compliance, Finance and Legal as well as 
the Insight leader in a number of chosen 
industries.”  
We have successfully reorganised our 
businesses into four distinct knowledge 
centres, and agreed ambitious but 
achievable objectives. We have also 
allocated and invested in dedicated 
resources to support the implementation 
of our new strategy to ensure we have the 
personnel, support and systems we need.  
I am particularly pleased with the transition 
of the role of Chief Executive Officer 
passing from Charles Brady to Pedro Ros 
which has been smoothly and professionally 
executed.  As evidenced by these excellent 
results, the business momentum within 
Wilmington has continued unabated. The 
new strategy and vision is focussed on 
maintaining the fundamental objectives 
of high quality income streams in areas 
where we excel from a people and products 
perspective in markets we understand and 
with customers we want to establish and 
develop long term relationships with.  
Creating an increasingly 
integrated business 
This new focus, together with a new 
corporate website, the Wilmington hub, 
associated rebranding and vision will help 
Wilmington create an even more compelling 
offering through a knowledge-based 
model. The business will prosper through 
an evolving portfolio of world class digital 
products and services. The promotion of a 
stronger unified Wilmington brand will bring 
together its market leading positions, other 
Wilmington brands and will emphasise 
Wilmington as an increasingly integrated 
business.
To reflect the new vision, and as part of 
our branding and development as a unified 
business rather than a group of companies, 
we changed the name of the company from 
Wilmington Group plc to Wilmington plc in 
February 2015. 
This branding and focus will better inform 
our clients about our range of expertise 
and breadth of coverage which will in turn 
enhance our market positions, this will also 
help to drive further international expansion 
and develop an integrated organisation 
supported by best in class technology and 
exceptional talent. 
Digital hub
Central to our integrated offering is the 
Wilmington hub. Stage one was launched 
in February 2015 which showcased the 
uniform branding and simplified business 
structure. Stage two was launched in 
August 2015 with the creation of an 
innovative corporate website and network 
of navigational tools that helps connect 
professionals to all our areas of expertise 
and enhances customer awareness for our 
clients across the globe.
Our people
As a digital information, education 
and networking business operating in 
dynamic and competitive markets, we are 
fundamentally reliant on the quality and 
professionalism of our people. I would once 
again like to express my own and my fellow 
Board members’ appreciation of the hard 
work and dedication of our Wilmington 
colleagues across the world.
Financial and operational 
targets
I am pleased to report further success and 
good progress in all of our key financial 
and operational targets. We have seen 
continued growth in Adjusted Profit before 
Tax, Adjusted Earnings per Share, Return 
on Sales and Return on Equity. We also 
monitor cash conversion which we expect 
to exceed 100% on an annual basis. We 
will continue to maintain a high proportion 
of our revenue derived from quality and 
Chairman’s Statement
“This year has seen Wilmington deliver a very positive financial performance. 
Our new strategy and vision have been successfully implemented, creating 
a more compelling offering through a knowledge-based business structure 
and customer offering. This offering continues to meet customer demand 
in products and services and in international territories and provides a solid 
platform for future growth.”
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
06 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
sustainable income streams. In this year 
revenue from subscriptions and repeatable 
revenue was 76% of Group revenue (2014: 
79%). We continue to seek to increase each 
year our proportion of revenue generated 
outside the UK where we see good 
prospects for long term sustainable growth 
in many of the major professional markets 
we operate in. Revenue outside the UK has 
grown again and was 39% of total revenue 
compared to 37% last year. The acquisition 
of FRA is expected to increase still further 
this proportion of overseas revenue.
This financial and operational performance 
is reflective of the quality of our portfolio of 
offerings which benefit from a significant 
proportion of revenues derived from 
subscriptions and from products which 
disseminate content-rich, high-value 
information digitally along with certificated 
education and compliance programmes.
Acquisitions 
In support of our growth strategy, we 
will continue to review selective earning 
enhancing acquisition opportunities to 
add additional growth and expertise in our 
chosen markets.
In this context we were delighted to 
announce the acquisition, on 7 July 2015, 
of FRA, a leading US conference and 
networking provider of specialist events 
in healthcare and finance, for a maximum 
consideration of up to $20.6m (£13.2m). 
The recent acquisition of FRA is consistent 
with our strict investment criteria and 
enhances our networking capabilities in 
Finance and Insight.
FRA will work closely with other Wilmington 
companies in the US, including Compliance 
Week (the provider of governance, risk 
and compliance events and information 
acquired in August 2013), and with UK 
companies seeking US market access in 
particular NHiS (the provider of business 
intelligence and data analysis to the 
pharmaceutical industry) and AMT (the 
provider of corporate finance and capital 
markets training to major international 
investment banks). 
FRA’s business provides Wilmington with 
additional networking expertise and will 
support in particular the Wilmington Insight 
and Finance divisions. FRA’s established 
relationships will provide Wilmington’s 
international businesses with networking 
opportunities, enabling closer access to a 
wider pool of North American customers 
and markets. In turn, Wilmington sees 
opportunities to ‘geo-clone’ FRA events 
internationally and is already investigating 
opportunities in the UK and Europe. 
Disposals
As part of the review of our portfolio we 
announced on 31 July 2015 the disposal 
of certain media assets for £0.5m from our 
Insight division.
In the near term, the Board’s primary focus 
remains on driving our new strategy and 
vision and maximising the many organic 
opportunities open to us to enhance our 
operational and financial returns.
Balance sheet
Net debt, which includes cash and 
cash equivalents, bank loans (excluding 
capitalised facility fees) and bank 
overdrafts, was £28.6m (30 June 2014: 
£33.7m) a decrease of £5.1m on last year 
during a period of considerable growth 
and change. The group continues to 
demonstrate excellent cash generative 
characteristics with cash conversion
1
 of 
107% (2014: 108%). These characteristics 
were recently recognised by the continued 
support from our principal bank debt 
providers who extended the multicurrency 
£65m debt facility on 1 July 2015 until 1 
July 2020. The facility, as well as providing 
longer term security, flexibility and reduced 
interest costs is structured so it can be 
increased to £100m if required with majority 
lending bank consent.
Dividend
I am proud of the Group’s record of 
maintaining its dividend over recent 
years and the resumption in 2013/14 
of a progressive dividend reflecting our 
improving financial performance. The 
dividend payment policy remains the same 
and underpins our confidence in the new 
strategy and vision and the resilience of our 
business models. I am pleased to confirm 
that the final dividend for this year will be 
increased again to 4.0p (2014: 3.7p) per 
share an increase of 8% on last year. This 
together with an increased interim dividend 
makes a total dividend of 7.7p up 5.5% 
from 2014 (7.3p). It is the Board’s intention 
to maintain its progressive dividend policy 
whilst ensuring that suitable dividend cover 
of at least two times adjusted earnings per 
share is maintained. 
The final dividend of 4.0p per share will be 
paid on 16 November 2015 to shareholders 
on the share register as at 23 October 2015.
Board changes
As announced in December 2014, Neil 
Smith, Chief Operating Officer, decided to 
leave the Group, effective from 1 January 
2015, to pursue other opportunities. 
Following the formation of an Executive 
Committee this position has not been 
replaced.
Wilmington is pleased to announce the 
appointment of Paul Dollman as a Non-
Executive Director and as designated 
Chairman of the Audit Committee. Paul will 
join the Board on 16 September 2015 and 
succeed Terry Garthwaite as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee in November 2015. 
Paul Dollman was Group Finance Director 
of John Menzies plc for over ten years 
until May 2013, where he played a key 
role in the turnaround of the business and 
is currently Chairman of Smart Metering 
Systems plc, a Non-Executive Director of 
Scottish Amicable (part of Prudential plc) 
and a Member of the Audit Committee of 
the National Library of Scotland.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Terry for his valued contribution 
over his ten year tenure, during which time 
he has been instrumental in achieving 
significant improvements to our reporting 
procedures. We wish him well in his future 
endeavours.
Current trading and 
outlook
I am pleased to report that the new financial 
year has started well and trading is in line 
with our expectations. Challenging market 
conditions remain for our Legal division 
and our Insight division has had a mixed 
start to the new financial year with lower 
sales of lower margin marketing data to 
pharmaceutical clients being offset by 
continued good momentum from NHiS 
which enjoys a solid pipeline of sales 
prospects. Meanwhile our Finance and Risk 
& Compliance divisions which represented 
just under 60% of our revenue in 2015 have 
both enjoyed good initial trading. Our latest 
acquisition FRA has also had a good start 
and we expect it to be earnings enhancing 
in this financial year.
We continue to see tighter regulatory control 
and more complex legislation implemented 
in most of our key markets and we remain 
confident that these changes will continue 
to drive the demand for our products and 
services globally. The recent acquisition 
of FRA provides further opportunities for 
continued profitable growth.
Wilmington has articulated its strategy, 
vision and ambition and is progressing 
with confidence in the next stage of its 
development. We continue to widen our 
geographical presence, strengthen our 
back office and operational management 
teams and invest in new strategic systems 
including our new digital hub. The business 
continues to offer good opportunities 
for us to generate attractive returns for 
shareholders over the long term.
The outlook for 2016 remains unchanged 
and we are on track to meet our 
expectation for the year.
Mark Asplin
Non-Executive Chairman
14 September 2015
1
 Cash conversion – see note 28.
07
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report
