  
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  11 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
Financial performance 
I am pleased to present Wizz Air’s first annual report as a publicly listed company. The 2015 financial year 
saw many pleasing developments as we further extended the reach of our ultra-low cost business model, 
maintaining our position as Central and Eastern Europe’s largest low cost airline, and delivered record levels 
of profitability. 
Wizz Air delivered a profit for the year of €183.2 million. After adjusting for the effects of one-off items, this 
performance translates into a record underlying profit after tax of €146.2 million, a 67 per cent. improvement 
versus the €87.5 million reported in the previous financial year. Our underlying net profit margin increased 
from 8.6 per cent. to 11.9 per cent. over the course of the year, making us one of the most profitable airlines 
in Europe. 
This strong performance was driven by capacity expansion, rigorous cost control and a determination to 
allocate capacity to the most profitable parts of our network. Expressed in numerical terms the Company 
delivered: 
E a 20 per cent. increase in the capacity offered to the market (as measured by available seat kilometres 
or ASKs), as we extended and deepened our network of routes to and from Central and Eastern Europe; 
E despite this significant capacity expansion we were able to increase our average load factor by 1.0 
percentage point to 86.7 per cent. in the financial year; 
E our revenue per ASK increased 1.1 per cent. versus the previous financial year; and 
E the beneficial impact of lower jet fuel prices was only partially offset by the stronger US Dollar and so 
unit costs (as measured by cost per ASK) declined by 2.1 per cent. versus the 2014 financial year. 
Consequently, volume growth and a widening gap between unit revenues and unit costs were the primary 
drivers of the Company’s improved financial performance. 
The profit for the year of €183.2 million included a €37.0 million net gain from unusual and exceptional items. 
These comprised unrealised foreign exchange gains (€27.8 million), a translation gain in relation to the 
planned closure of Wizz Air Ukraine (€14.5m), the cost of extending and revaluing the Company’s 
convertible debt in August 2014 (€2.5m) and IPO related costs (€2.8m). All but the last of these items were 
non-cash. 
Market overview 
The European short-haul market is supplied by legacy carriers (national flag carriers and charter airlines) and 
a generally younger group of low-cost airlines. Low-cost airlines such as Wizz Air benefit from relatively 
simple business models, higher aircraft utilisation and staff productivity rates and therefore lower costs than 
their legacy rivals. This provides low-cost airlines with a competitive advantage which enables them to offer 
significantly lower fares and therefore attract a growing share of the air travel market. 
Wizz Air’s ultra-low cost model gives it a clear cost advantage versus most of its rivals, including many other 
low-cost airlines, and as a result it is able to stimulate the market with very low fares and sustain a relatively 
high growth rate compared to other airlines.  
Wizz Air’s premium growth rate is also a function of the market in which it operates: Central and Eastern 
Europe (CEE). All of Wizz Air’s routes connect to CEE countries where economic growth, and therefore 
growth in demand for air travel, is generally stronger than in Western Europe.  
The demand for air travel in CEE has increased more than five-fold in the last ten years and as a result Wizz 
Air has grown to be not only the largest low cost airline in CEE but also the fourth largest independent low-
cost airline in Europe after Ryanair, Easyjet and Norwegian Air Shuttle as measured by the number of 
passengers carried. 
The Company took the regrettable decision to close Wizz Air Ukraine in March 2015. This subsidiary had 
already been scaled down to just two aircraft. The Kiev base operation will be further rationalised to a single 
aircraft registered to and operated by Wizz Air Hungary. 
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  12 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
Regulatory environment 
Wizz Air has its beginnings, and has since prospered, in the liberalised European aviation marketplace. 
Liberalisation has proven to be a very positive development, not only for customers but also for the airline 
industry itself. Increased competition demands cost discipline and those companies that manage their costs 
properly become stronger and more resilient, providing increasing numbers of secure, rewarding jobs.  
Liberalisation is also good for the communities we serve. Our ability to start international services, linking the 
capitals and regions of Central and Eastern Europe to the major business centres and leisure destinations of 
Western Europe, fosters integration within Europe. This much enhanced connectivity is a key catalyst for the 
rising prosperity of the towns and cities within our network.  
Wizz Air has also developed services from a number of its home countries to destinations beyond the 
borders of the European Union, to countries such as Georgia, Israel and the United Arab Emirates, all of 
which were made possible by the European Union’s continuing push to liberalise aviation relations with other 
countries and regions, an ongoing process that Wizz Air fully supports and encourages. 
However, despite the liberalised environment, challenges do remain. In particular, Wizz Air would encourage 
all authorities to ensure that airlines have access to genuinely competitive infrastructure and ground-
handling services at major airports. While we believe that competition at all levels is good, that competition 
must be on a level playing field. The time is past for inefficient carriers to exist merely because they receive 
state subsidies.  
Finally, a note on passenger rights. Wizz Air operates a young, reliable fleet and we are committed to 
delivering a high quality service to our passengers. By industry standards, Wizz Air delivers extremely high 
rates of reliability. Only 187 flights out of a total of 105,627 were cancelled in the 2015 financial year, of which 
only a small portion for technical reasons, and only 0.2% of flights were delayed more than three hours.  
On the few occasions that flights are significantly delayed or cancelled, we comply fully with all applicable 
rulings related to regulation EU261. Wizz Air pays the relevant compensation in accordance with the relevant 
authorities’ guidance. We also believe that the contractual two-year limit within which claims must be 
brought is fair, reasonable and legally valid. 
Strategic progress 
Wizz Air’s ambition is to make safe, reliable and affordable air travel available to everyone in CEE. This 
objective is reflected in the Company’s slogan used in its first eleven years: “Now We Can All Fly”. 
In order to achieve this ambition the Company operates the youngest fleet of any European airline, to and 
from a range of primary and secondary airports across Europe, offering highly competitive fares and a range 
of additional services designed to satisfy the requirements of as many people as possible. 
The Company is convinced that its strategy of building on its strong network, highly efficient model, 
compelling customer proposition, solid finances and sound risk management policies, will enable it to deliver 
sustainable growth and returns for Shareholders. 
In order to deliver on its strategy Wizz Air has three key objectives: 
1. increase our cost advantage; 
2. build a strong, diversified market position; and 
3. improve the customer experience. 
1. Increase our cost advantage 
Wizz Air has always been focused on being as efficient as possible and has already established some 
impressive credentials compared to other major European short-haul airlines, including: 
E the youngest fleet of aircraft; 
E a strong point-to-point network; 
E the highest aircraft utilisation; 
E the highest staff productivity; 
E one of the highest load factors; 
E an “unbundled” product producing the highest ancillary income per passenger; and 
E a group of reliable and efficient outsourced suppliers of key services. 
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  13 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
Strategic progress continued 
1. Increase our cost advantage continued 
As a result, Wizz Air is already one of the most cost competitive airlines in Europe. However, the Company 
believes it can become even more cost efficient by: 
E exploiting scale economies as the Company grows; 
E taking advantage of its stronger financial standing and easier access to capital following its listing on the 
London Stock Exchange in March 2015; and 
E reaping the benefits of an increasingly efficient fleet. 
The composition of our fleet at the last year-end and at the next two is the following: 
  March 2015 March 2016 March 2017 
  Actual Planned Planned 
A320 without winglets (180 seats) 35 35 35 
A320 with winglets (180 seats) 20 28 28 
A321 with winglets (230 seats) — 4 15 
Fleet size 55 67 78 
Share of fleet with winglets  36.4% 47.8% 55.1% 
Average number of seats per aircraft 180 183 190 
 
Wizz Air was one of the first airlines to take delivery of Airbus A320 aircraft fitted with winglets. These 
winglets reduce fuel burn and emissions, particularly on longer flights. All aircraft joining the fleet in the 
future (both A320 and A321) will be fitted with winglets and therefore this proportion of the fleet will rise 
steadily over the next five years. 
In addition, the Company will take delivery of the larger Airbus A321 from November 2015. Wizz Air has 27 of 
these aircraft on order and, from an operational point of view, they are essentially the same aircraft as an 
Airbus A320 except its longer fuselage accommodates 230 seats compared to 180 on the Airbus A320. The 
A321s will be employed on higher volume routes and provide efficiencies that will enable the Company to 
offer even lower fares to the market. 
2. Build a strong, diversified market position 
Central and Eastern Europe comprises 21 countries with a total population of over 550 million people. 
However, as this market is relatively under-served by airlines and in particular low-cost airlines, it represents 
a huge opportunity for a low-cost airline.  
At present Wizz Air has operations in 16 CEE countries with an aggregate population of 295 million. We 
serve the market by offering a network of 22 bases and 110 destinations. We are convinced that the ultra-low 
cost business model is best placed to serve this market and as such the Company offers safe, reliable 
operations, low fares and hassle-free services and a distinctive brand designed to appeal to the whole 
market. 
This approach has enabled the Company to become the number one or number two low-cost airline in all of 
its base countries. The Company’s aggregate market share in CEE reached 39.2 per cent. in the 2015 financial 
year, up from 35.6 per cent. in 2010. The table below shows the Company’s ranking by low-cost market 
share in each of its base countries.  
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  14 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
Strategic progress continued 
2. Build a strong, diversified market position continued 
 
Market 
Number 1 Number 2 Number 3 
Carrier Share Carrier Share Carrier Share 
CEE  Wizz Air 39.2% Ryanair 29.4% EasyJet 7.4% 
Poland Ryanair 50.7% Wizz Air 37.5% Norwegian 5.5% 
Romania Wizz Air 67.7% Blue Air 22.5% Ryanair 4.8% 
Hungary Wizz Air 50.5% Ryanair 21.8% EasyJet 9.0% 
Czech Republic EasyJet 29.2% Wizz Air 14.5% Ryanair 13.9% 
Lithuania Ryanair 60.3% Wizz Air 34.8% Norwegian 4.7% 
Bulgaria Wizz Air 77.3% EasyJet 15.4% Norwegian 3.8% 
Latvia Ryanair 61.9% Wizz Air 24.6% Norwegian 13.5% 
Ukraine Wizz Air 61.6% Pegasus Airlines 17.1% FlyDubai 11.6% 
Slovakia Ryanair 82.9% Wizz Air 14.1% Norwegian 1.7% 
Serbia Wizz Air 57.9% EasyJet 16.0% Pegasus Airlines 8.4% 
Macedonia Wizz Air 86.1% Pegasus Airlines 9.3% FlyDubai 4.6% 
Bosnia and 
Herzegovina Wizz Air 46.6% Pegasus Airlines 25.7% Germanwings 17.9% 
Source data: Innovata, April 2014 to March 2015. 
In the 2015 financial year Wizz Air expanded its presence in all its base countries with the exception of Serbia 
and Ukraine. New bases were opened in Riga in Latvia and Craiova in Romania. 
The table below shows the fleet allocation by country at the 31 March 2015 compared to a year earlier. 
 Fleet deployment by country 
Year to end March 2014 March 2015 Change 
Total 46 55 9 
Poland 13 17 4 
Romania 10 15 5 
Hungary 7 7 0 
Bulgaria 3 4 1 
Lithuania 3 3 0 
Ukraine 3 2 (1) 
Macedonia 1 2 1 
Czech Republic 1 1 0 
Serbia 2 1 (1) 
Latvia — 1 1 
Maintenance cover/en route to base 3 2 (1) 
 
The Company also offers services from 15 CEE cities where it does not base aircraft and crews. Four new 
CEE points were added in the 2015 financial year: Iasi and Sibiu in Romania, Poprad Tatry in Slovakia and 
Tuzla in Bosnia (becoming a base in June 2015). 
The Company also added six new destinations in Western Europe (WE) during the year: Belfast in UK, 
Groningen and Maastricht in the Netherlands, Lisbon in Portugal, Molde in Norway and Nuremberg in 
Germany. 
New non-based CEE stations  New destination airports in WE 
City Country  City Country 
Iasi Romania  Belfast UK 
Sibiu Romania  Groningen Netherlands 
Poprad Tatry Slovakia  Maastricht Netherlands 
Tuzla Bosnia  Nuremberg Germany 
   Lisbon Portugal 
   Molde Norway 
 
In total the Company operates to 110 cities in 38 countries, making it one of the most diversified low-cost 
airlines in Europe. 
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  15 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
Strategic progress continued 
3. Improve the customer experience 
Market research consistently demonstrates that the most important driver of a customer’s choice of airline is 
ticket price. For this reason Wizz Air will remain focused on offering passengers safe, reliable services to a 
broad range of destinations, at the lowest possible price. 
However, the Company also recognises that everyone is different and customers have varying requirements 
in terms of how they access Wizz Air’s services and what is important to them when they travel. So, beyond 
the basic product of flying customers from A to B, Wizz Air offers a range of products and services that 
enable passengers to customise their trip to meet their own individual needs.  
These services include a range of seating alternatives, baggage options, flexible tickets, priority boarding and 
a range of on-board purchases. In the Company’s view, this “unbundling” philosophy enables Wizz Air to 
offer each customer exactly and only what he or she needs whilst keeping the price of the basic service as 
low as possible.  
In addition, the Company also provides customers with the opportunity to buy hotel, car hire and public 
transport services as part of the same booking. Wizz Discount Club enables customers and their friends and 
families to benefit from lower air fares than those that are generally available. 
Wizz Air listens to its customers and strives to provide them with what they want. This is why we have 
upgraded our website and made it more user-friendly for all customers but in particular for mobile and tablet 
users. We have introduced allocated seating* across the network and are updating our brand**, modernising 
the look and feel of our aircraft and website.  
Wizz Air remains committed to the view that low-cost air travel can be as comfortable and stress free as 
travelling with legacy airlines, only significantly cheaper. Adhering to this philosophy will help the Company 
deliver sustainable growth and returns for Shareholders.  
*  Announced in April 2015, rolled out on flights from May 2015. 
**  Announced in May 2015. 
Looking forward 
Hedging positions 
Wizz Air operates under a clear set of treasury policies supervised by the Board. The aim of the Company’s 
hedging policy is to reduce short-term volatility in earnings and liquidity. Therefore Wizz Air hedges a 
minimum of 50 per cent. of the projected US Dollar and jet fuel requirements for the next twelve months (40 
per cent. on the full 18-month hedge horizon). 
Details of the current hedging positions (as at 27 May 2015) are set out below: 
FX hedge coverage (Euro/US Dollar) 
   F16   F17  
Period covered  10 months   12 months  
Exposure (million) $521  $784  
Hedge Coverage (million) $265  $140  
Hedge Coverage for the period % 51% 18% 
Weighted average floor $1.26  $1.11  
Weighted average ceiling $1.30  $1.16  
 
Fuel hedge coverage 
   F16   F17  
Period covered  10 months   12 months  
Exposure in metric tons ('000) 530 736 
Coverage in metric tons ('000) 366 449 
      Coverage with zero cost collars 273 47 
      Coverage with fuel caps 93 402 
Hedge Coverage for the period % 69% 61% 
Blended capped rate $821  $676  
Blended floor rate* $801  $672  
*  Fuel caps provide the Company with protection against the risk of higher fuel prices and also enable the Company to benefit 
from lower fuel costs should fuel prices fall. The blended floor rate for fuel hedges shown in the table is only applicable to zero 
cost collar hedges.  
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  16 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
Looking forward continued 
Sensitivities 
E Pre-hedging a $10 (per metric ton) movement in the price of jet fuel impacts the 2016 financial year fuel 
costs by $6.3 million. 
E Pre-hedging a one cent movement in the Euro/US Dollar exchange rate impacts the 2016 financial year 
operating expenses by €5.4 million. 
In the Company’s view, the profit impact of such changes is likely to be less given the empirical evidence of 
major industry-wide movements in input costs being passed through to air fares with a lag of three to twelve 
months.  
Outlook 
2016 financial year 
Wizz Air plans to grow capacity, both in terms of seats flown and Available Seat Kilometres,(ASK) by around 
17% in the 2016 financial year. This will be split broadly 18% in H1 and 16% in H2. The average stage length is 
expected to be in line with that of the 2015 financial year. A further modest rise in the load factor points to a 
total of 19.4 million passengers handled in the year as a whole. 
Assuming the jet fuel price and Euro/US Dollar exchange rate remain close to the prevailing spot levels 
($625 per metric tonne and $/€ 1.12 respectively), the Company expects Total CASK to be in line with the 
figure achieved in the 2015 financial year. This comprises an anticipated Fuel CASK decline of 1.5% and an 
increase in Non-fuel CASK of 1%. The expected Fuel CASK decline reflects the combined impact of lower fuel 
prices, a much stronger US Dollar, fuel consumption savings and hedging positions. The rise in Non-fuel 
CASK reflects the impact of US Dollar strength on lease expenses, some modest inflation in crew costs and 
rising airport and air traffic control charges. 
Consistent with historical experience, lower fuel prices are feeding through to lower air fares. Management’s 
view that there will be no earnings benefit from the decline in fuel prices since last summer remains 
unchanged. Based on current booking trends management expects total RASK to decline by a low single-
digit percentage in H1 and remains cautious regarding the H2 revenue performance, when capacity growth is 
planned to be 16%.  
Nonetheless, we currently expect a further significant rise in the Group’s profit for the year to a range of 
between €165 million and €175 million (excluding unusual and exceptional items), significantly ahead of the 
€146.2 million figure achieved in the 2015 financial year. This guidance is heavily caveated by the H2 revenue 
performance, a period for which we currently have no visibility. 
Full year guidance 
 2016  
 
Financial Year Comment 
Capacity growth (ASKs) 17% H1: 18%, H2 16% 
Average stage length Unchanged  
Fuel CASK -1.5% Assumes spot price of $625/MT 
Ex-fuel CASK 1.0% Assumes $/€1.12 
Total CASK Unchanged  
Revenue per ASK Down low single digit Pass through of lower fuel prices 
Tax rate 6%  
Net profit €165-175 million Excluding unusual or exceptional items 
 
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  17 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
 
Outlook continued 
First (June) quarter of the 2016 financial Year 
The Company expects to grow capacity, both in terms of seats flown and Available Seat Kilometres, by 18% 
in the June quarter and anticipates a modest rise in load factor versus the same period of the previous year. 
The fact that Easter fell one week earlier in 2015 than in 2014 pushed a higher proportion of this high yield 
traffic into the March quarter. As a result Q1 (June quarter) net profit is expected to be only marginally ahead 
of Q1 of last year. 
The Company will provide an update to this guidance at least every three months with its quarterly earnings 
reports. 
Wizz Air is successfully implementing its strategy of delivering low cost, professional and friendly air travel to 
an ever expanding range of Central and Eastern European destinations. This winning formula leaves Wizz Air 
well placed to deliver significant growth and returns for shareholders. 
József Váradi 
Chief Executive Officer       
26 May 2015 
  
