  
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  9 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
I am pleased to report that the Company delivered record profits in the 2015 financial year with underlying 
profit after tax growing by 67 per cent to €146.2 million (see Financial Review for more detail). This increase 
was due to increased passenger demand, a 2.5 per cent increase in average fares and a relatively modest rise 
in fuel costs which increased just 10 per cent over the prior year to €396.6 million. The growing scale of the 
business, combined with sharply higher margins, accounted for the strong rise in profitability. 
During the year Wizz Air delivered a number of significant milestones: 
E Our traffic grew by 18.4 per cent to 16.5 million passengers, consolidating our position as the leading low 
cost airline in Central and Eastern Europe. 
E We continued to grow and diversify our route network by opening two new bases and 63 new routes. 
The Company now offers 375 routes to 38 countries. 
E We took delivery of 13 aircraft and returned four aircraft that had reached the end of their lease term 
and the fleet size increased from 46 to 55 aircraft. Wizz operates the youngest fleet of any major 
European airline. 
E The airline operated at 99.8 per cent of its schedule (cancelling only 187 out of 105,627 flights scheduled) 
making it one of the most reliable airlines in the industry. 
E We became even more cost competitive by further reducing our unit costs. Our cost per available seat 
kilometre (CASK) declined by 2.1 per cent to 3.62 Euro cents. 
E We successfully listed the Company’s Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange at a price of 
£11.50 per share, a fully diluted equity valuation for the Company of £1,456 million (€2,008 million), 
raising gross proceeds of £110 million (€150 million) for the Company in the process. 
Opportunity 
The 500 million plus people that live in Central and Eastern Europe have traditionally had very poor access 
to air travel. Wizz Air is helping to change this by bringing affordable air travel to the region. As one of the 
few airlines operating the ultra low cost carrier model across the region, the Company has a unique 
opportunity to grow over the next decade. As such, it remains focused on developing its network of routes 
to, from and within the region and expects to be able to deliver premium growth rates for the foreseeable 
future. 
Customers 
More people choose to fly with Wizz Air every year. Last year alone, the airline handled 2.6 million more 
passengers than the previous year – this growth is itself more than the total passengers carried by most 
CEE-based airlines.  
This volume growth indicates that the Company’s strategy of providing safe, reliable, punctual and friendly 
air travel to a range of attractive destinations, all at the lowest possible fares, has proved to be a very 
successful formula. Every day of the week, the efforts of the management team, crew and service partners 
are focused on delivery of this formula.  
To the 16.5 million passengers who chose to fly with Wizz Air last year, we thank you for placing your trust in 
the Wizz Air team. To the millions more that will fly with Wizz Air in the coming year: welcome on board! 
Employees 
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all of our employees for another year where they again 
demonstrated their enthusiasm, professionalism and passion for the airline and its customers. The results, in 
terms of fleet expansion, new bases and destinations, schedule reliability and on-time performance, speak for 
themselves. Thank you all! 
    
 
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2015  10 
STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT CONTINUED 
Board of Directors 
In addition, I would like to thank all Directors past and present who have contributed so much to the 
development of the Company in recent years and have been instrumental in successfully guiding it to and 
through its stock market debut.  
Finally, a special note of thanks should also go to the two Directors who left the Board during the year, John 
Tierney and Heather Lawrence.  
William A. Franke 
Chairman 
26 May 2015 
  
