 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
At a Glance
Information, education and networking.
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
04
At Wilmington plc, our vision is simple –  
we transform knowledge into advantage, keeping 
our clients at the centre of everything we do. In 
today’s knowledge economy, where differentiation 
using traditional criteria is often difficult, we help our 
clients better understand their challenges and to 
use information to improve their businesses. 
We aspire to treat every client as we would 
treat our only client; we equip our businesses 
accordingly and provide best-in-class support 
and infrastructure. We are innovative, adopting 
new technologies and embracing the digital 
environment; we understand that today’s 
organisations are as concerned with sustaining 
the pace of change in business generally as they 
are with competition. 
Throughout Wilmington plc, we are fortunate 
to have highly talented people working in our 
businesses. People whose energy and shared 
commitment to success drives exceptional 
performance. Wherever in Wilmington plc 
you look, the power of our people, working 
towards common objectives, is immense; we 
set ourselves demanding goals and we achieve 
them. Consequently, we deliver consistent 
growth – both personal and financial – and aim 
to deliver increased stakeholder value for clients, 
employees and shareholders alike.
Risk &  
Compliance
£36.4m
(2014: £32.4m)
Revenue 
Use blocks woth hero image for each
Finance
This division includes Wilmington’s financial training businesses and 
contains our Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) and Mercia businesses. 
The consolidated offerings of its finance areas should drive good 
revenue growth as well as exploit growing international markets. 
The Finance division provides expert and technical training and 
support services to professionals in corporate finance and capital 
markets and to qualified accountants in the UK and Ireland in both 
the profession and industry. This division serves primarily tier 1 
banks, the international financial services industry and professional 
accountancy firms.
£18.7m
(2014: £17.0m)
Revenue 
This division provides in depth regulatory and compliance 
accredited training and information, market intelligence and 
analysis. It focuses on the international financial services and 
international insurance markets as well as the UK pensions industry 
and contains our International Compliance Training (‘ICT’), Axco, 
Pendragon, International Company Profile (‘ICP’), Compliance 
Week and Inese businesses. The main users of our offerings are 
risk and compliance officers globally. This is an area which has 
demonstrated strong organic growth which should be enhanced as 
we combine the various opportunities into an integrated offering. 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Revenue can be analysed 
by segment as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
Revenue can be analysed 
by division as follows:
Total Revenue
% of Group revenue
61%
17%
11%
11%
● UK 
● Europe (excluding the UK)
● North America
● Rest of the World
38%
20%
17%
25%
● Risk & Compliance
● Finance
● Legal
● Insight
05
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report
Use blocks woth hero image for each
Legal
Insight
£16.3m
(2014: £17.4m)
£23.7m
(2014: £23.3m)
Revenue Revenue 
The Legal division provides a range of training, professional 
support services and information including Continuing Legal 
Education, expert witness training, databases and magazines to 
legal professionals. This division includes Ark & Legal Information, 
Central Law Training and Bond Solon.
See the companies in each division at www.wilmingtonplc.com Read about the trends in each sector in our Chief Executive Officer’s 
Review page 12
operating in 8 COUNTRIES with 23 OFFICES  
serving clients in 150+ COUNTRIES
The Insight division provides analysis and clarity to customer-
focused organisations, enabling them to better understand and 
connect with their markets. This division includes our UK healthcare 
information businesses, our French language medical news agency, 
our data suppression and charity information businesses. This 
division includes our Charities Choice, Caritas, Millennium, Agence 
de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), Binley’s and NHiS businesses.
