 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
I am pleased to present my first set of 
annual results since joining Wilmington. 
Every day I am reminded of the quality 
of our business and of our people and 
this is reflected in the strong Revenue 
performance achieved during the year up 
6% at £95.1m compared to 2014. Adjusted 
EBITA was up by 9% (£1.7m) to £20.4m 
and Adjusted Profit before Tax was up 11% 
(£1.8m) to £18.4m. A robust performance 
overall was delivered across the Group 
not just from businesses enjoying strong 
demand but also from those businesses 
operating in challenging markets.
Since taking over the role of Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 October 2014 we have made 
great strides in reorganising and refocussing 
the business. Our new vision and strategy 
builds upon the legacy of Wilmington’s 
strong brands and market positions, 
creating a more compelling offering through 
a knowledge-based model underpinned by 
our evolving portfolio of world class digital 
products and services. Clients remain at 
the centre of everything we do and we are 
focussed on working more efficiently and 
increasingly as a more unified business. We 
have also strengthened the management 
teams and by creating an operational 
Executive Committee of senior managers 
we have both brought the businesses closer 
to each other and brought Wilmington plc 
closer to the businesses. 
The Capital Markets day in July 2015  
proved a good opportunity to give our 
investors, analysts and followers a better 
insight to the new structure and access to 
the divisional managers who are working 
to deliver a more integrated business 
which seeks to exploit opportunities across 
the many touch points we have with our 
customers.
As announced in December 2014 we 
now manage and report our business 
by reference to four knowledge-based 
divisions; Risk & Compliance, Finance, 
Legal and Insight. We are therefore 
presenting and commenting on our 
business and financial performance by 
reference to these new divisional structures.
Risk & Compliance 
38% 50%
% of  
Group revenue 
% of  
Group contribution
1
This division provides in depth regulatory 
and compliance accredited training and 
information, market intelligence, and 
analysis. It focuses on the international 
financial services and international 
insurance markets as well as the UK 
pensions industry and contains our 
International Compliance Training (‘ICT’), 
Axco, Pendragon, International Company 
Profile (‘ICP’), Compliance Week and 
Inese businesses. The main users of 
our offerings are risk and compliance 
officers globally. This is an area which has 
demonstrated strong organic growth which 
should be enhanced as we combine the 
various opportunities into an integrated 
offering. It also has the highest exposure to 
international markets of all our divisions. 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 36.4 32.4 4.1 13
Contribution 11.9 10.7 1.2 11
Margin % 33 33
Divisional revenue increased by 13% 
(£4.1m) and 13% on an underlying constant 
currency basis adjusted for the acquisition 
of Compliance Week. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
1 1% to £18.4m
9% to £20.4m
6% to £95.1m
Adjusted profit before tax up
Adjusted EBITA up
Group revenue up
1 
 Group contribution of £23,829k (2014: £21,970k) 
– see note 3
“I would like take the opportunity to recognise the quality and 
commitment of our people at Wilmington; two attributes which 
underpin the year’s strong performance.”
Pedro Ros
Chief Executive Officer
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
12 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Our compliance training businesses (which 
represent c.40% of the division’s revenue) 
grew 30% in the year again supported by 
strong demand for in house face to face 
training particularly from tier 1 international 
banks where we continued to secure 
major training programmes. The growth 
has been particularly strong in this area 
over the last few years benefitting from 
the roll out of intensive organisation-wide 
training programmes. These large initial 
programmes are then followed up by less 
intensive maintenance programmes which 
leverage our ICT programmes that have 
become embedded in the organisation’s 
processes and culture.  
We have also seen increases in our 
public courses again driven by demand 
for accredited compliance training and 
supplied globally by ICT. ICT provides 
accredited training programmes in anti-
money laundering, compliance and financial 
crime and has developed compliance 
training programmes in Banking, Oil, 
Gambling and Gas and Pharmaceuticals. 
Growth in compliance despite the 
performance continues to be constrained 
to some extent by the availability of 
qualified trainers although we have been 
investing in our own trainer induction and 
conversion programmes. We still see many 
opportunities to launch new compliance 
products in most regulated markets and 
are focussing our efforts on an industry by 
industry basis.
Axco, the industry leading provider of 
insurance market intelligence, regulation 
and compliance information reported just 
over 3% constant currency revenue growth 
helped by the continued success of its new 
digital subscription products and market 
reports although its analytics and data 
services continued to experience slow 
growth and some revenue was affected 
by insurance  company merger activity. 
Axco completed the roll out of new insight 
products earlier in the year which will 
enhance our analytical insurance offerings 
going forward. Since the year end we have 
seen growing interest in the new Insight 
products reflected in deferred revenue for 
Axco increasing by 6% on the same period 
in 2014.   
Pendragon which provides compliance 
information and workflow tools for the UK 
pensions markets maintained its market 
leading position. We are beta testing the 
new pension legislation platform, “New 
Perspective”, which continues to see strong 
interest from existing and potential new 
clients. The new system represents a major 
revamp of the industry leading platform 
moving from a site licensed model to a 
cloud based hosting environment.
ICP which provides company credit reports 
aimed at credit risk managers had a 
record year last year but has seen a recent 
slowdown in demand for credit reports, 
particularly in the Middle East, resulting in a 
small revenue decline of 5%. The business 
has a strong pipeline of orders for 2015/16 
and demand is still robust for its product.
Compliance Week, our US governance, risk 
and compliance events and information 
business acquired in August 2013 
contributed revenue of £3.7m compared 
to last year‘s 10.5 month contribution of 
£3.2m. The Compliance Week Annual 
Conference held in Washington together 
with the second European Compliance 
Conference held in Brussel performed 
well and both provided natural showcases 
for other group offerings; servicing the 
increasing demand for risk and compliance 
products and services. A further 
Compliance Week event will be held in 
November 2015 in Dubai reflecting the geo-
clone opportunities from large scale events 
in our key markets. 
Inese our leading insurance information 
and events business serving the Spanish 
Insurance market and, increasingly, clients 
in South American markets grew revenue by 
a creditable 3% in constant currency terms.
Overall divisional contribution increased 
by £1.2m (11%) to £11.9m (2014: £10.7m) 
and 15% on an underlying constant 
currency basis adjusted for the acquisition 
of Compliance Week. Margins were level 
reflecting, inter alia, the  investment in 
infrastructure for our ICT compliance 
training business to support its rapid 
revenue growth and the related change in 
mix with a higher proportion of revenue 
from, lower margin, compliance training. 
This was supplemented by growth from our 
higher margin information businesses.
Finance
20% 18%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
This division includes Wilmington’s 
financial training businesses including 
Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) and Mercia. 
The consolidated offerings of its finance 
areas should drive good revenue growth 
as well as exploit growing international 
markets. The Finance division provides 
expert and technical training and support 
services to professionals in corporate 
finance and capital markets and to 
qualified accountants in the UK in both the 
profession and industry. This division serves 
primarily tier 1 banks, the international 
financial services industry, and small to 
medium sized professional accountancy 
firms.
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 18.7 17.0 1.7 10
Contribution 4.4 3.7 0.7 18
Margin % 23 22
The division continued its strong revenue 
growth reported at the half year with an 
increase of £1.7m (10%) compared to 2014. 
The growth in constant currency terms was 
also 10%. Growth drivers included strong 
demand from tier 1 banks for face to face 
graduate induction training, and from face 
to face training demands from professional 
accountants, particularly around the recent 
changes to UK accounting standards.
AMT which provides corporate finance 
and capital markets training to major 
international banks recorded another 
record year with revenue up over 10%. 
AMT, which generates most of its revenue 
and contribution in the summer months, 
benefited from its evolving e-training 
platforms and content initiatives. AMT 
continued to win market share in a 
competitive market based on its reputation 
for ‘best in class’ bespoke training and 
heavy investment in its e-delivery and 
support systems. The new year for AMT has 
already started well and the pipeline of new 
business again looks strong, although AMT, 
like other high quality training businesses, 
is being restricted by competition over the 
supply of quality trainers. 
13
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Mercia our accountancy training business 
had an excellent trading year as well 
as acquiring and integrating a small 
accountancy training business. It has also 
undergone a seamless change in senior 
management whilst continuing to trade well 
in a competitive and challenging market. 
Mercia has benefitted from a second UK 
fiscal budget in July 2015 which will help 
underpin to some extent its profit targets for 
2015/16. 
Overall divisional contribution was 18% 
(£0.7m) ahead of last year at £4.4m (2014: 
£3.7m) and 25% ahead on an underlying 
constant currency basis. Margins were up 
to 23% from 22%. 
Legal 
17% 9%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
The Legal division provides a range of 
training, professional support services 
and information including Continuing 
Legal Education, expert witness training, 
databases and magazines to legal 
professionals. The business which offered a 
wide range of services is now focussing on 
three basic offerings; providing law services 
to lawyers in the profession and industry 
and law services for non-lawyers. 
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 16.3 17.4 (1.1) (6)
Contribution 2.2 2.3 (0.1) (3)
Margin % 14 13
The division saw revenue reduce by 6% 
(£1.1m) continuing the trend reported at 
the half year. This continued reduction, 
although disappointing, reflects the 
challenging market conditions previously 
reported particularly surrounding reduced 
demand for face to face training and the 
proposed change to the Legal profession’s 
Continuing Professional Development 
rules. Our response has been to change 
the management team at the beginning 
of the year, to continue to rationalise our 
conference and course programmes to 
reflect the structural changes in the market, 
and to look at ways of integrating the 
various businesses and brands. We have 
also launched our new networking and 
resource platform for the legal industry; 
the Wilmington Legal Portal. There were, 
however, areas of the legal market showing 
continued growth including Bond Solon, 
servicing the needs for law for non-lawyers, 
which saw revenue grow by 4%.  
The new legal division management team 
and structure have bedded down and 
despite the market conditions, the overall 
division improved its contribution margins 
from 13% to 14%, although contribution 
was down £0.1m to £2.2m (2014: £2.3m).  
Insight 
25% 23%
% of 
Group revenue 
% of 
Group contribution
The Insight division increasingly provides 
analysis and clarity to customer-focused 
organisations, enabling them to better 
understand and connect with their markets. 
This division includes our UK healthcare 
information businesses, our French 
language medical news agency, our data 
suppression, media, and charity information 
businesses.
2015
£’m
2014
£’m
Movement
£’m %
Revenue 23.7 23.3 0.4 2
Contribution 5.4 5.3 0.1 1
Margin % 23 23
Revenue was up 2% (£0.4m) to £23.7m 
(2014: £23.3m) and, adjusting for adverse 
currency movements was up 4% compared 
to 2014. The healthcare business which 
makes up 60% of the division had faced 
challenging market conditions over the 
last few years and to some extent the 
conditions had eased earlier in the year 
reflected in good growth from our Binley’s 
and Onmedica businesses (up 7%) but 
in particular growth from NHiS (up 25% 
albeit compared to a weak 2013/14). 
NHiS a provider of business intelligence 
and data analysis to the pharmaceutical 
industry is seeing more traction from one 
off assignments which focus on offering 
more analysis led insightful information 
albeit at lower margins. NHiS saw increased 
demand from other European clients 
interested in its Insight capabilities in the 
UK healthcare market. We also saw revenue 
growth within Onmedica Asia from a new 
business we set up to explore the provision 
of healthcare data and market intelligence 
to the Indian healthcare market. Agence 
de Presse Médicale (‘APM’), our French 
news agency business, reported revenue 
down 7% (2% down in constant currency) 
reflecting funding pressure in the French 
health sector.    
As expected the data suppression and 
charities businesses were down 2% in 
revenue terms compared to last year and 
the focus is on delivering higher margins 
through reorganisation and the review of 
marginal business operations. On 31 July 
2015 we disposed of our non-core media 
information business which contributed 
£1.1m to turnover (down 10% in the 12 
months to 30 June 2015) and £0.1m to 
profits.
Overall divisional contribution was 
adversely affected by currency but was 
up £0.1m to £5.4m and margins were 
flat at 23%. We did see good growth in 
margins and profits from our UK healthcare 
businesses but these were offset by lower 
margins from APM and as reported last year 
from the added investment in the Insight 
management team. Contribution was up 
£0.3m on an underlying constant currency 
basis.
Group overheads
Group overheads, which include Board 
costs, head office salaries as well as 
unallocated central overheads, increased by 
£0.1m (4%) to £3.4m (2014: £3.3m).
Pedro Ros 
Chief Executive Officer 
14 September 2015
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Wilmington plc Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2015
14 24212-04   Proof PFP  28 September 2015 5:31 PM
Case Study
Beautifully Blended Learning
See more content at:  
www.wilmingtonplc.com
Adkins Matchett & Toy (‘AMT’) are global 
experts in financial training, supporting 
clients by delivering tailored learning and 
equipping employees with the skills and 
tools they require for success. Their own 
success is demonstrated by the long-
standing relationships they have built and 
boutique firms around the world. Clients 
rely on AMT not only as a training provider 
but as an adviser and partner that can 
develop complete solutions.
Over recent years AMT has invested 
heavily in their approach to blended 
learning. Combining classroom learning 
and publications with the power of online 
and digital delivery, blended learning 
provides a comprehensive experience that 
solves many of the issues associated with 
traditional programmes including lack of 
engagement and variations in quality. 
The benefits were realised for one major 
client when AMT introduced webinars 
to complement their in-class delivery. 
Attendance rates increased significantly, 
satellite offices were able to enjoy the 
same high quality training as their central 
locations and carefully scheduled webinars 
combined time zones to improve the 
programme’s cost-effectiveness. 
Today, AMT’s blended learning greatly 
transcends the use of webinars, although 
they still play a key part. In 2013 AMT 
launched their successive online learning 
platform, AMT Online (‘AMTO’). Utilising 
the latest technology, Massive Open 
Online Courses, AMTO is able to support 
numerous concurrent training programmes 
around the world. Students are seamlessly 
enrolled online where they can immediately 
engage in their pre-course curricula. 
Diagnostic testing and tailored content 
are utilised to ensure participants have the 
foundations required prior to reaching the 
classroom. AMTO enhances all classroom 
training, providing details of when and 
where training is taking place, enabling 
instant content delivery, instructor uploads 
and facilitating exams. Post-course 
AMTO provides continuing education 
opportunities, feedback reporting and a 
long-term reference point. Throughout these 
phases AMTO enables AMT and the client 
to evaluate the performance of individuals, 
groups or classes. These reports are used 
to tailor the learning dynamically, meaning 
participants develop exactly the skills they 
need.
AMTO is continuously evolving. Each year 
it is upgraded, enhancing the learning 
experience for students and the logistics of 
delivery. Bolstering AMT’s blended learning 
is the imminent launch of their digital books, 
bringing world class publications to all 
devices. AMT have now been developing 
critical digital solutions for over 11 years. 
This experience has established them as 
industry leaders and contributes towards 
AMT being the partner of choice for many 
organisations.
AMT’S BLENDED 
LEARNING 
ExPERIENCE
15
www.wilmingtonplc.com Stock Code: WIL
Strategic Report
