 08 Strategic Report
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
CEO’s statement
We have delivered another 
year of good results and 
demonstrated that our strategy 
is working.
>
We delivered good results this year. 
We are pleased to report that we have 
made progress in all areas of our strategy, 
which comprises the three pillars of 
operational excellence, portfolio 
optimisation and sector and regional 
focus. We have delivered efficiencies, 
particularly in North America and, on 
1 April 2015, we reorganised our UK 
business to enhance our client focus, 
improve efficiency and drive business 
performance. Our focus on growing 
organically has been boosted this year 
with strategic acquisitions in Europe and 
North America. Together, these actions 
are resulting in tangible progress towards 
our 8% margin goal as evidenced 
by solid growth in profitability and 
excellent cash performance.
Business performance
Our underlying profit before tax was 
£121.9m, an increase of 14.6% over 
last year’s profit of £106.4m, on revenue 
that increased 0.4% to £1.76bn 
(2014: £1.75bn). This profit includes 
the benefit of £5.0m of research and 
development expenditure credit following 
early adoption of new rules in the UK. 
In previous years the equivalent benefit 
was shown as a reduction in the tax charge. 
As discussed in more detail in the Business 
review (page 23), we believe underlying 
profit is a more representative measure 
of performance, removing the items that 
may give a distorted view of performance. 
The unadjusted reported profit before 
tax was £106.7m (2014: £114.2m). 
Revenue and profit before tax were 
adversely affected by currency headwinds 
of £22.8m and £1.1m respectively against 
a constant currency basis. 
Reported operating profit was £118.5m 
(2014: £113.7m), at a margin of 6.7% 
(2014: 6.5%), while the more representative 
underlying operating profit was £134.1m 
(2014: £116.4m) giving an improved 
underlying margin of 7.6% (2014: 6.7%).  Strategic Report 09 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
Investor Information
CEO’s statement continued
In Scandinavia, we continue to work 
across a number of important rail and 
road infrastructure projects. We believe 
that the strategic acquisition of Terramar 
will position us to secure further work 
in the well-funded infrastructure markets 
in Norway, as well as unlocking further 
project management opportunities. 
In North America, we saw an improvement 
in both operating profit and margin as we 
embedded our new operating structure, 
despite a first half impacted by currency 
headwinds. Our consultancy business’s 
more focused, client-centric model made 
solid progress, increasing win rates and 
positioning the business to maximise 
existing relationships and create new 
opportunities. We benefited from good 
new contract wins in the environmental 
and general engineering services areas 
of our business in Florida, Nevada and 
Colorado, and were reappointed on 
significant contracts for the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency as 
well as contracts to oversee transport 
solutions for highways authorities in 
Florida, Texas and Georgia. Our strategic 
ventures business completed its first year 
of operation with a diverse portfolio of 
rail, transit and energy and renewables 
clients. Faithful+Gould had a quieter year 
following the conclusion of some client 
programmes and we were impacted 
by cost reduction measures taken by 
clients in the oil and gas sector.
I am pleased to report that our 
Middle East business delivered a strong 
overall performance this financial year, 
with revenue and operating profit up 
significantly as we continued our focus 
on major projects and programmes in 
rail, infrastructure and property. Good 
progress was made on the mobilisation 
and design delivery for our major metro 
projects, including Riyadh Metro, Doha 
Metro Red Line South and Doha Metro 
Gold Line, the latter a notable win in 
the first half of the year. There continues 
to be demand for metro projects across 
the region, with further opportunities 
to work selectively for design and build 
contractors. Our work with the Qatari 
Government, advising on infrastructure 
planning and design projects to meet its 
National Vision 2030, has continued 
through the year. Property sector activity 
in the United Arab Emirates experienced 
an upturn in confidence in 2014 resulting 
in increased property workloads with 
selective clients. Our Faithful+Gould 
business had a strong year with growth 
across the region buoyed by the 
Confluence acquisition in 2013, which 
added project management strength. 
We have also seen a number of successes 
in the property sector.
Our Asia Pacific region had a good 
year, particularly in our core markets 
of Hong Kong and China, despite the 
Government’s introduction of anti-
corruption measures and the subsequent 
slowdown in contract awards in mainland 
China and the impact of pro-democracy 
demonstrations in Hong Kong. Our 
work outside the region with Chinese 
contractors continued to gain momentum. 
We are focused on expanding our 
footprint in southeast Asia. In Indonesia 
we won a substantial masterplanning 
project and in Malaysia and Vietnam we 
continue to pursue projects selectively 
in the transport and property sectors. 
The acquisition of Confluence, through 
our Faithful+Gould business in the region, 
has enabled us to achieve particular 
success in Singapore on several high 
profile projects in more diverse sectors 
and strengthened our multidisciplinary 
offering to clients.
The net profit on disposal of £0.4m 
is explained in more detail in note 8 
to the Financial Statements (page 153) 
and comprises £0.5m of deferred 
consideration received in relation to 
our previously disposed UK highways 
services business and a loss of £0.1m 
on the disposal of our Polish business.
Headcount closed the year at 18,462 
(2014: 17,489), reflecting organic 
headcount growth and the acquisitions of 
Nuclear Safety Associates (NSA), Houston 
Offshore Engineering (HOE) and Terramar.
Our United Kingdom and Europe business 
saw a much improved second half 
performance after a mixed first half. 
We faced a market downturn in our 
aerospace business in the year and 
our profitability was also affected by a 
number of contract variation negotiations 
in our UK rail business, which have now 
been largely resolved. By contrast, our 
highways and transportation and design 
and engineering businesses continued 
to benefit from the UK Government’s 
focus on infrastructure investment. Our 
highways and transportation business 
won significant contracts for Highways 
England as one of its key suppliers on 
the Collaborative Delivery Framework 
and also for the Welsh Government’s M4 
corridor project and Transport Scotland’s 
A9 upgrade. All sectors of our design and 
engineering business have strong pipelines 
of secured workload and opportunities. 
Our rail business remains busy, operating 
at a high level of staff utilisation, 
reflecting strong markets in the areas 
of signalling, electrification and station 
design. Our water and environment 
business returned to growth during the 
second half of the year. This improved 
performance was due to increased 
volumes from contracts secured with 
water utility clients for the 2015 to 
2020 regulatory period (AMP6). Our 
Faithful+Gould business has performed 
well with continued signs of recovery 
in the market. 10 Strategic Report
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
CEO’s statement continued
Our Energy business continued to perform 
well despite the effect of the falling oil 
price. During the year, we were delighted 
to complete two acquisitions in North 
America. In October, the successful 
acquisition of HOE added 150 people in 
North America with world class skills in 
deepwater floating production platforms, 
while the completion of the NSA purchase 
added 130 specialists in nuclear safety, 
design engineering, and professional 
security services. Our expertise and 
international footprint has helped us 
secure long-term framework agreements 
for both consultancy and design services 
for major international oil and gas 
operators and our international nuclear 
portfolio remains strong. The Middle East 
market continues to provide opportunities 
for growth with a strong pipeline of work, 
including the recent award of a contract 
to provide engineering services to 
Shanghai Electric Power Construction 
Corporation in support of Aramco. 
Priorities
We are committed to becoming an 
even more responsible and sustainable 
organisation. During the year, this has 
been supported by the introduction of 
our new code of conduct, Behaving the 
Atkins Way. The code provides a strong 
leadership statement and direction and 
emphasises the importance of ensuring 
the safety and wellbeing of all our people 
while encouraging and empowering 
them to challenge and raise concerns 
about any dishonest, unethical, 
unacceptable or unsafe behaviour.
Work to implement our strategy 
continues. We see attractive prospects 
in a number of our existing sectors, most 
notably Energy. Other sectors on which 
we place a particular focus will evolve over 
time. Security remains an attractive sector 
but is not yet a business of scale. The 
challenging environment in aerospace has 
also seen a reduction of the market and 
this will be less of a focus area in future. 
We continue to expand our market facing 
offering in geographic areas where we 
already have a presence, for example in 
Asia Pacific.
Conclusion
These results could not have been 
achieved without the hard work of 
our people worldwide and I would like 
to thank them all for their dedication, 
for their focus and the way they work 
together as one Atkins to truly make 
a difference for our clients.
We have delivered another year of 
good results and demonstrated that 
our strategy is working. Organic growth 
remains our priority but, during the year, 
we have underpinned it with acquisitions 
that added new skills and expanded 
our regional presence while successfully 
disposing of our Polish business. We start 
the new financial year with an attractive 
pipeline of opportunities across the 
Group and a strong balance sheet. 
Our operational excellence programme 
continues to maintain our focus on 
improving our overall operating margin, 
towards our 8% goal. We are confident 
of delivering further growth in the 
coming year.
Prof Dr Uwe Krueger
CEO
10 June 2015
