 06 Strategic Report
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
Our good results were achieved despite 
heightened levels of uncertainty in 
world markets with exchange rate 
volatility and lower growth in many 
of the world’s developed economies.
>
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group 
delivered another set of good results 
against a background of continued 
challenges in the broader macroeconomic 
environment. During the year, we made 
further progress on the delivery of our 
strategy. Our portfolio optimisation 
is now largely complete and our margin 
progression has continued towards 
our 8% goal. We were also pleased 
to have recently completed a number 
of acquisitions during the period.
Macroeconomic environment
Our results were achieved despite 
heightened levels of uncertainty in world 
markets with exchange rate volatility 
and lower growth in many of the world’s 
developed economies. Falling oil prices, 
volatile stock markets, and economic and 
political uncertainties affected many of 
our regions. The falling oil price has led 
the world’s oil companies to review 
capital expenditure and also affected 
the economic climate in the Middle East. 
China’s recent higher growth rate 
declined somewhat and that, coupled 
with the Government’s introduction of 
a programme of anti-corruption initiatives, 
led to deferrals in the award of projects 
and payments. Delays in project approvals 
also affected Hong Kong, following the 
pro-democracy activity.
In the UK, the Government’s commitment 
to infrastructure investment continued 
with major programmes in the rail, 
road and water sectors all progressing 
as expected. 
In North America, the economic recovery 
was encouraging but remains fragile with 
long-term visibility around infrastructure 
investment being impacted by the uncertain 
political environment. 
Strategy
Our operational excellence programme 
is delivering efficiencies, particularly in 
North America. In addition, on 1 April 2015 
we reorganised our UK business to enhance 
our client focus, improve efficiency and 
drive business performance.
Chairman’s statement  Strategic Report 07 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Investor Information
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2015
Chairman’s statement continued
and our flexible working practices have 
been introduced across our Energy 
business and in our global design centres. 
Our Energy business is also piloting a 
programme to support women returning 
to work after maternity leave. In the 
UK, we were delighted to be recognised 
as one of The Times Top 50 Employers 
for Women 2015.
During the year, we have invested in our 
brand to create a new purpose statement 
to capture the ‘what’, ‘how’ and ‘why’ 
of Atkins. Rather than simply what we do, 
we want to be known for what we stand 
for, the things that drive us, and the way 
we work. Our purpose brings all that 
together in one description and is outlined 
in the Strategy section (page 19).
Board of directors
Rodney Slater and Alun Griffiths retired 
from the Board at our annual general 
meeting on 30 July 2014. Rodney served 
the Board for three years and I would like 
to thank him for his input during that 
time. Alun was with the Group for 
28 years and served on the Board as 
an executive director for seven years; 
he was succeeded as Group HR director 
by James Cullens. During his tenure, 
Alun made a significant contribution to 
the Board and more broadly throughout 
the Company. He will be missed 
and I would like to thank Alun for his 
longstanding dedication to the Group. 
I am delighted to welcome Catherine 
Bradley to the Board. She joined as a 
non-executive director on 9 June 2015 
and brings significant corporate finance 
and acquisition experience obtained 
in the UK, Asia, the US and Europe.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 25.5p per ordinary share in 
respect of the year ended 31 March 2015, 
making the total dividend for the year 
36.5p (2014: 33.75p), an increase of 
8.1%. If approved at the Company’s 
annual general meeting, the dividend will 
be paid on 21 August 2015 to ordinary 
shareholders on the register on 10 July 2015. 
Further details regarding dividend 
payments can be found in Investor 
Information (page 203).
Outlook
The Group has maintained its resilience 
to challenging markets worldwide 
through the breadth and depth of its 
market positioning. 2015 continues to see 
a heightened level of uncertainty in world 
markets with the consensus of forecasts 
of world economic growth between  
2.8% and 3.8% overall, but with 
significant regional variations. Sustained 
low oil prices and economic and political 
uncertainties provide a complex backdrop 
to near-term developments.
In the UK, we are encouraged by 
the continuing overall commitment by 
the recently elected Government 
to infrastructure and the National 
Infrastructure Plan and we believe our 
refreshed operating model positions 
us well to take full advantage of this. 
In North America, as our technical 
professional organisation matures, we 
expect productivity will continue to 
increase and help drive further margin 
improvement. In Energy we see a good 
pipeline of work across nuclear and 
renewable balancing ongoing staff 
reductions in oil and gas. In the Middle 
East economies, the reduction in oil prices 
may have some near-term impacts on 
decision making and the launch of major 
capital spending commitments. However, 
we believe essential infrastructure will 
remain a priority and the long-term 
objectives of governments in core markets 
are unlikely to be diverted significantly. 
Asia Pacific remains well placed to deliver 
on its strategic growth plan, helped by 
the acquisition of Confluence in 2013. 
Overall, the outlook remains positive.
Allan Cook CBE
Chairman
10 June 2015
We also completed a number of strategic 
acquisitions in North America and Europe. 
In September 2014 we received approval 
from the US Government which facilitated 
the successful completion of our 
acquisition of Nuclear Safety Associates. 
This acquisition will enhance the capability 
of our Energy business, and extend our 
nuclear footprint in North America in 
the federal and commercial US nuclear 
industries. In October 2014, we acquired 
Houston Offshore Engineering, a leading 
offshore oil and gas business based 
in Houston, Texas. This business brings 
to the Group vast experience in the 
design of offshore deep water floating 
production platforms. Our acquisition of 
Terramar, one of Norway’s leading project 
management consultancy firms, was 
also completed during the third quarter. 
In September 2014, we completed the 
disposal of our 77 person business in 
Poland to Multiconsult, a Norwegian  
multidisciplinary consultancy and design 
business. We intend to exit the Portuguese 
market where we currently employ 
48 staff.
People
We are fortunate to have a team of 
excellent people around the world who 
are winning and delivering fantastic work. 
They play a central role in everything that 
we do and I would like to thank them for 
their continued outstanding contribution. 
Together, we’re making a huge difference.
We continue to maintain our focus on 
inspiring and encouraging more young 
people to pursue a career in the 
engineering sector. During the year, 
we welcomed almost 400 new graduates 
across the Group and accelerated our 
apprentice programme by recruiting 
71 apprentices within our UK business.
A more diverse workforce can help to 
address the critical skill shortage in parts 
of our business and our commitment 
to building a more diverse organisation 
continues to gain momentum. We have 
increased the number of our women’s 
professional networks around the world 
