 06
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Dear shareholder,
In 2015, we delivered strong financial 
performance, demonstrating that we have 
a robust business model that is capable 
of delivering strong, visible and recurring 
shareholder returns. In support of our 
strategic vision, we have invested in our 
people, products and technology. We 
are currently entering the final stages 
of building our market-leading new 
technology platform and have a strong 
pipeline of technical innovation to help 
our customers prosper. 
In addition to the successful IPO towards 
the end of 2015, for which we gained 
external recognition as ‘IPO of the year 
2015’ in the Broadwalk Service Awards, 
we also put in place new committed 
bank financing and issued €500m senior 
unsecured notes. We now have the 
capital structure to support our growth 
in the future.
Since my appointment as Chairman in 
September 2015, I have spent time with 
our executive team and other employees 
to gain an understanding of this industry, 
our key strengths and the challenges we 
Chairman‘s statement
In our first Annual Report and 
Accounts since we became a 
publicly listed company in October 
2015, I am delighted to report a year 
of significant progress, building our 
capabilities for a successful future. Overview 
Strategic report
Directors’ report
Financial statements
Shareholder information
 
07
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
face. What is clear to me is that the 
payments market is developing at pace, 
becoming increasingly complex and 
challenging; the expectations placed upon 
payments providers such as Worldpay are 
increasing; and, with our talented people, 
our focus on the customer and our 
technological innovation, we are well 
positioned to support our customers, both 
now and in the future.
The Board
We have built a strong Board with Non-
Executive Directors who possess a diverse 
range of skills and experience to 
complement those of our three Executive 
Directors. John Allen and Martin Scicluna 
served the Group as Independent Non-
Executive Directors under private equity 
ownership and they bring knowledge of the 
Company and the industry as well as 
substantial commercial and financial 
experience to our new Board’s 
deliberations. I am delighted that Deanna 
Oppenheimer joined the Board as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director on 
1 January 2016. The breadth of her skills and 
experience in financial services will be 
invaluable to Worldpay. We will further 
strengthen the Board during 2016. Advent 
and Bain remain large shareholders of the 
Group and, as entitled, have appointed 
James Brocklebank and Robin Marshall 
respectively as Non-Executive Directors 
on the Board. Each possesses a wealth 
of knowledge about the Company and 
the industry. 
Governance and corporate culture
The Board has made a firm commitment to 
high standards of corporate governance 
and this is further explained in the 
corporate governance report. We believe 
that strong governance should prevail 
throughout the organisation and we pay 
attention to the progress being made in 
building a culture that supports the 
sustainable long-term success of the 
Group.
Colleagues
On behalf of the Board, I would like to pay 
special thanks to our colleagues, who have 
made a substantial contribution to our 
achievements throughout the year. It is 
particularly pleasing to see that a 
significant majority are shareholders, 
aligning their interests with those of other 
shareholders and enabling them to share 
in the success they are helping to create.
Dividend policy
The Board intends to adopt a dividend 
policy based on a payout ratio of 20-30% of 
reported profit after tax per annum, 
commencing in the current financial year 
and we expect to announce our first 
interim dividend with our 2016 half year 
results, payable later in the year. As 
referenced in the IPO Prospectus, no 
dividend will be paid in respect of 2015. 
Our stakeholders
I would like to thank all our shareholders, 
bond holders and banks for their support 
during the IPO, bond issue and bank 
financing and look forward to their 
continued engagement and support in 
the future.
Sir Michael Rake
Chairman
8 March 2016
Link to 
Corporate governance 
report 
page 82
