 08
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s statement
Link to 
Our markets 
page 16 Overview
Strategic report 
Directors’ report
Financial statements
Shareholder information
 
09
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
An increasingly complex and dynamic 
payments market
We delivered this strong performance 
against a backdrop of an increasingly 
complex and dynamic payments 
landscape. This is presenting significant 
challenges to our customers, from the 
smallest traders to some of the largest 
global businesses.
This growing complexity is partly being 
driven by the higher expectations of 
merchants’ own customers. For example, 
they are increasingly demanding improved 
mobile functionality as smartphone and 
tablet use continues to grow, and a unified 
view of transactions across physical, 
online and mobile channels.
At the same time, our merchants’ markets 
are becoming ever more international, 
requiring them to accept more currencies 
and payment methods than ever before. 
As a result, they also need to manage the 
associated regulation and increased risk, 
fraud and security issues. With 
increasingly global competition, 
successful merchants are also looking at 
how they can improve their use of data to 
gain deeper insight into their customers’ 
buying habits and to drive efficiency.
Worldpay is well positioned to support our 
customers in meeting these challenges. 
I am confident that we have the 
capabilities, talent and resources to be at 
the forefront of innovation and to deliver 
securely and reliably the services and 
products our customers need.
Substantial progress on the 
implementation of our strategy
Our strategy is designed to maximise 
the benefits of our strong competitive 
position in our markets, in order to 
deliver sustainable, predictable growth, 
profitability and shareholder returns. 
We aim to do this by ensuring that we 
have a deep understanding of the needs 
of our customers in core segments. We 
differentiate our offering through 
technology and innovative products, and 
aim to expand in existing markets, as well 
as enter new ones. 
Realising the full potential of our business 
model should result in strong cash flow 
generation, allowing us to reinvest in our 
business, as well as enhance our growth 
through acquisitions and investments.
In 2015, we made substantial progress on 
the implementation of our strategy, 
resulting in growth in all key customer 
segments. We deepened and 
strengthened our customer relationships, 
resulting in strong growth in Global eCom, 
with transactions up 31%; 9% transaction 
growth in the US; and transaction growth 
of 8% in the UK.
2015 was a year of strong 
operational and financial 
performance as well as 
considerable achievement in 
the further implementation 
of our strategy.  10
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
We also delivered new and innovative 
products, and updated existing ones, for 
our customers. We obtained processing 
licenses in Canada and Japan, while new 
customer products and services included 
an update to RiskGuardian, our fraud 
prevention tool; improved mobile-friendly 
payments through Hosted Payment Pages; 
rich data analytics for UK SMEs through My 
Business Dashboard; and delivery of an 
omnichannel offering through Worldpay 
Total. In the US, the technology integration 
of the SecureNet acquisition is progressing 
to plan, and we signed over 80 new 
partners in the year. These partners will be 
important in enabling us to deliver new, 
integrated payment products focused on 
specific customer segments in the US 
market. We aim to be at the forefront of 
innovation and in 2015 we continued to 
invest in our Pazien joint venture and filed 
three patent applications.
The UK saw the successful launch, towards 
the end of the year, of Worldpay Business 
Finance (in partnership with Liberis), with 
over £2m committed so far to UK companies 
looking to invest in and grow their 
businesses. We are also now delivering an 
ecommerce solution to more than 40% of 
new UK SME customers, against less than 
20% of existing customers.
Another key area of achievement was in the 
further strengthening of our technological 
capabilities, which are a key source of 
differentiation for us. In terms of progress 
on our new technology platform, which will 
deliver significant enhancements to our 
agility, flexibility and efficiency, we migrated 
the off-host servicing and data applications 
to our own systems, so that only one 
component now remains on RBS’ systems: 
the clearing and settlement engine. We 
have now completed the build of the core 
platform of the new system to replace this, 
and expect to start boarding our first 
customers onto it in the summer of 2016.
Strong financial performance
I am pleased to report that we delivered a 
strong financial performance, consistent 
with the guidance that we gave at the time 
of our IPO.
Across the Group, we processed over 
13 billion transactions, an increase of 
14% compared to 2014. Total transaction 
value was £401.9bn, while the net revenue 
we earned from processing these 
transactions rose by 14%, to £981.7m.
In terms of Group profitability, underlying 
EBITDA increased 8% to £406.1m, a strong 
performance. At a divisional level, Global 
eCom and WPUK outperformed against 
our expectations. Global eCom net revenue 
grew 17% compared to 2014, driven by 
both the growth of the market and new 
customer wins. In the UK, net revenue 
grew 11%, driven by improved customer 
retention, new products and increased 
penetration of ecommerce solutions.
In the US, net revenue grew 15%. Excluding 
the benefit of the SecureNet acquisition 
and currency movements, the growth was 
3%. We are making progress in 
transforming the business into one with 
an integrated customer offering, 
supported by a partner and developer-led 
business model, however, it is taking 
longer and costing more than expected. 
Floris de Kort, who previously headed our 
Global eCom division, is now leading the 
US business, and in 2016 will focus on the 
completion of this transformation and the 
normalisation of the cost base.
Our people: making Worldpay a great 
place to work
I am proud of the further progress we made 
in 2015 to improve our organisational 
effectiveness and make Worldpay a great 
place to work. The culture of the 
Worldpay Way, which encourages 
colleagues to work smart, be spirited 
and be supportive, is driving significant 
improvements in employee engagement. 
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
 bn
transactions processed
%
of employees are  
Worldpay shareholders
 m
underlying EBITDA 11
Worldpay Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
Strategic report 
Directors’ report
Financial statements
Shareholder information
 
Executive Committee
Provides information on the executive team which 
is responsible for the day-to-day management of 
the Group
Our markets
This section sets out the key themes that we see 
as important in understanding our markets and 
the growth prospects they offer
Our business model
This section explains our business model and our 
resources and relationships. It also includes three 
case studies where we have made a significant 
contribution to helping our customers prosper
Our strategy
The five pillars of our strategy, which are explained in this 
section, are designed to ensure our continued success in 
creating value for customers, colleagues and shareholders
Our key performance indicators
This section summarises the key non-financial and 
financial indicators that we use to measure our 
performance
Principal risk and uncertainties
This section describes our approach to the 
management of risk and the key risks we face
Operating review
In this section, we present and discuss our 
performance in our three principal markets
Financial review
This section presents a review of the Group’s financial 
performance in 2015
In our latest survey, our engagement score 
rose substantially and we are now rated a 
‘1* Best Companies to Work For’. However, 
we aspire to improve further to ensure we 
engage great talent, drive a culture of 
innovation, and enhance colleague 
performance, satisfaction and retention.
I would like to thank all of our colleagues 
for their hard work in making 2015 such 
a successful year for the Group. Looking 
to the future, I am pleased that they will 
now share in our success, with 67% of our 
employees being Worldpay shareholders.
Outlook
The Group has made a good start to 2016, 
in line with expectations. We remain 
confident in our prospects over the 
medium term. These prospects are 
reflected in the guidance we gave at the 
time of our IPO, including targeting net 
revenue growth of approximately 9% to 
11% CAGR over the medium to long term, 
which remains unchanged.
Worldpay is an innovative payments 
technology company, and we are investing 
heavily to deliver strong, sustainable 
growth. We aim for world-class 
performance, reliability and security in 
seeking to solve payments complexity for 
our customers. With market-leading global 
reach and product coverage, a modern 
and scalable technology platform, strong 
customer propositions and a talented and 
engaged workforce, I am confident that 
we will be able to realise our vision of being 
the world’s most progressive, reliable 
payments partner, sharing insights and 
helping customers prosper.
Philip Jansen
Chief Executive Officer,  
Worldpay Group plc
8 March 2016
Link to 
page 12
Link to 
page 16
Link to 
page 24
Link to 
page 40
Link to 
page 52
Link to 
page 55
Link to 
page 67
Link to 
page 71
The remainder of our Strategic report, 
provides further information on our 
executive management team, the 
markets we operate in, our business 
model and strategy, our key performance 
indicators, how we identify and manage 
the risks and uncertainties associated 
with our business, and our performance 
in the year.
