 Having joined Xaar in January 2015, I 
believe we have made good progress in 
the last twelve months in our transition 
from an internally focussed product 
company, to an externally focussed 
market led business. I am convinced of 
Xaar’s significant long term potential, but 
to capitalise on that potential we need to 
continue to improve our understanding of 
our markets and our customers, pursue 
strategic partnerships and carefully identify 
acquisition opportunities.
Our overall business performance in 2015  
was solid following a difficult 2014. Sales for the 
year by segment were broadly in-line with our 
expectations going into the year. This combined 
with the cost savings made in 2014 and careful 
yield and cost management during the period, 
resulted in a good financial performance for 
2015, with adjusted operating margin being 
maintained at 22%. Further detail is provided  
in the Chief Financial Officer’s report. 
Strategy
We thoroughly reviewed our strategy in 2015. 
Our long term opportunity remains unchanged; 
the conversion of well-established analogue 
manufacturing techniques to digital inkjet 
solutions. Our mission also remains the same; 
Leading the Digital Inkjet Revolution.  
The change to our renewed strategy primarily 
relates to three elements: 
1. Transition from an internally focussed 
product company to a market and customer 
focussed business 
2. Expand our offering beyond the printhead in 
certain applications 
3. Access new products and new technology 
through partnership and acquisition
To support our strategy we have made a 
number of organisational changes, including 
some significant internal cultural and 
communication changes. With these changes 
made, we can achieve the vision we have set 
ourselves to grow annual revenue to £220 
million by 2020. The substantial investment in 
our manufacturing capacity, our commitment 
to R&D, our product roadmap, our excellent 
people and our strong cash balance, position 
the Company well to execute its strategic 
objectives. After 25 years of success we look 
forward to achieving our vision over the next 
five years, and the successful long-term  
future of Xaar. 
Looking forward, and outward
Chief Executive Officer’s report
After 25 years of success in a number of 
segments, we look forward to the continued 
progression of our business towards achieving 
our 2020 vision.
Doug Edwards
Chief Executive Officer
16 March 2016
12  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc Our approach to unlocking new opportunities 
is to drive the development of inkjet technology 
into selected multiple applications and 
industries, delivering sustainable profitable 
growth. We aim to be the primary enabler of 
change in our target markets, leading the initial 
wave of conversion, and then to protect our 
position through replacement product sales 
driven by continuous product development. 
The size of the conversion opportunity, the rate 
of change, and the key characteristics enabling 
that change will vary from market to market. 
OEMs are mostly market specific which means 
we work with a number of OEM customers 
in developing inkjet solutions for a discrete 
market.
Further detail on our strategy and progress 
made in 2015 is set out in the ‘Our strategy  
in action’ section on pages 15 to 18.
Market segments
Industrial
The Industrial segment, which is dominated 
by sales into ceramic tile manufacturing, 
remained our largest segment with 66% of 
total revenue for the year (2014: 71%). Sales 
into ceramics remained stable during 2015, 
but caused overall Industrial revenue to decline 
20% year on year, following the Chinese slow-
down suffered in the second half of 2014. 
The ceramic tile market is expected to remain 
our largest sector in 2016, and we continue 
to see substantial opportunity in the next few 
years from the conversion to digital inkjet of 
production lines which have not yet switched. 
We are excited about the progress of the 
Xaar 1002 GS40 in the polished tile market, 
and our new products planned for launch 
in 2016 will reinforce our market leadership 
position. Outside of ceramics, in other industrial 
applications, sales remain modest but great 
potential exists within areas like decorative 
laminates, industrial Direct-to-Shape printing 
and advanced manufacturing. 
Packaging
Sales into the Packaging segment increased 
by 16% in 2015, and represented 17% of 
revenue (2014: 12%), with all application areas 
achieving growth. Coding and marking remains 
an important market for us, and in December 
we announced a new family of printheads 
to service this sector. Sales into digital label 
printing were encouraging, with sales growth  
of over 30% year on year as our partners made 
further improvements to their offerings.  
In the third sub-segment of packaging, Direct-
to-Shape printing, the potential for supply 
chain waste reduction and improved time-
to-market for bottles, cans, tins and other 
primary packaging is substantial. Our partners’ 
developments continue to progress, with 
commercial products on sale during 2015,  
but total revenue remained modest. 
Graphics
Revenues into the Graphics segment declined 
as expected as the result of end-of-life 
processes on certain mature products.  
New products are planned for launch in 2016.
Product and technology development
Xaar has a long standing commitment to  
R&D and product development, and this  
was maintained through 2015 with over 20%  
of revenue invested. 
2015 was a busy year for our product 
development and delivery teams.
In April 2015 we launched the Xaar 1002 GS12U 
printhead, which provides market leading 
quality and functionality for UV applications 
such as high-build spot varnishes and extra-
opaque whites onto labels and Direct-to-Shape 
packaging. This product is already providing 
significant advantages to our OEM partners  
and end customers.
In September 2015 we announced the Xaar Print 
Bar System, a new product which incorporates 
the Xaar 1002 family of high-precision industrial 
printheads into a standalone printing system, 
adding single-pass inkjet capability to analogue 
web and sheet-fed presses. The Xaar Print Bar 
System is versatile, easy to configure and ideal 
for personalised, variable data, special effects 
and short-run printing for a range of applications, 
including labels and packaging. The Xaar Print 
Bar System is proving popular, with deliveries 
against the first customer orders expected  
in the next few months.
In December 2015 we announced a new 
family of printheads for coding and marking 
applications. The new family of printheads, the 
first of which is to be available in late 2016, will 
be the ideal width for high-resolution coding 
and marking applications such as printing 
barcodes, best before dates and other product 
identification codes onto a range of packaging.
We have an exciting range of bulk piezo 
product launches planned for 2016.
Our Thin Film programme progressed to plan 
in 2015, and we expect to be demonstrating 
our technology at drupa, the world’s leading 
trade show for graphic and industrial print, 
from 31 May 2016 to 10 June 2016. This 
major programme aims to open up more of 
the analogue market to Xaar through a solution 
which offers a generational shift in performance.
In January 2016 we announced the 
appointment of Professor Neil Hopkinson to a 
new role as Director of 3D Printing. Professor 
Hopkinson is the original inventor of the 
transformational High Speed Sintering (HSS) 
technology, a revolutionary technology which 
uses inkjet printheads and infrared heaters 
to manufacture products layer by layer from 
polymer powder materials at much higher 
speeds than other additive manufacturing 
processes. Neil and the team will accelerate  
the success of Xaar’s OEM partners in the 
exciting area of additive manufacturing.
Summary and outlook
I have enjoyed my first year at Xaar and I 
would like to thank all of our staff for their 
efforts during 2015. We stabilised our financial 
performance and I am encouraged by the 
progress we have made to evolve our strategy, 
create a market and customer focussed 
culture, and establish our Xaar values of trust, 
collaboration and drive. Looking ahead, our 
market leadership and expanding product 
portfolio position us well for growth, but based 
on limited visibility, particularly around China, 
the Board is currently budgeting for 2016 
revenue to be broadly similar to 2015. 
I am convinced that our long term potential 
is enormous, but we will only achieve our 
goals if we truly understand our markets 
and our customers, keep our commitment 
to developing world class products and 
complement our organic growth with 
partnerships and carefully selected acquisitions. 
After 25 years of success in a number of 
segments, we look forward to the continued 
progression of our business towards achieving 
our 2020 vision.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  13
