 Delivering transformational solutions
Our business at a glance
Who we are Our strategy
We are a world leader in the development 
of digital inkjet technology and an award-
winning manufacturer of piezoelectric drop-
on-demand industrial inkjet printheads.
Xaar is the world’s leading supplier of industrial printheads, with  
25 years of success in a variety of markets. Our core business is  
the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of printheads, printhead 
systems and associated products. Xaar also receives licensee royalty 
income from its legacy licensing model.
Our business model
Our strategy is to drive the development  
of inkjet technology into selected
multiple applications and industries, 
delivering sustainable profitable growth.
628
Employees (2015 average number)
New products  
and new technology
Read more on page 15
Enhancing  
our capability
Read more on page 18
Converting  
multiple markets
Read more on page 17
Xaar designs
Xaar markets
Xaar invests a substantial proportion of 
sales (over 20% in 2015) in Research and 
Development (R&D) to remain a world leader 
in inkjet technology.
Xaar’s innovative products are used in a wide 
range of applications around the globe, from 
ceramic tiles to semi-conductors.
Xaar has more than 250 patents and patent 
applications and continues to add to its 
Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio.
Our headquarters and R&D activities are 
based on the prestigious Cambridge Science 
Park, Cambridge, UK. At 31 December 2015 
R&D staff totalled 145, representing 24% of 
the total workforce.
Xaar offers a wide range of industrial inkjet 
printheads and printhead systems which 
are designed and produced to meet the 
customer-driven requirements of a range of 
manufacturing applications. Primary markets 
include wide-format graphics, ceramic tiles, 
labels, packaging, coding and marking, 
3D printing, advanced manufacturing and 
decorative laminates.
Xaar manufactures
Xaar manufactures its printheads in 
Huntingdon, UK and Järfälla, Sweden.  
The Sweden plant will close in 2016.
Xaar’s manufacturing is relatively capital 
intensive; the Group has invested over £60 
million in assets and production facilities in 
Huntingdon since the plant opened in 2007.
Building  
the eco-system
Read more on page 16
Xaar sells
Xaar sells direct to OEMs around the world 
through its global sales team. Xaar’s highly 
skilled application engineers offer the highest 
level of technical support to assist OEMs in 
the successful design, build, commissioning, 
and ongoing maintenance of printing 
systems. Europe, Asia and North America 
are the primary locations of our current  
OEM partners.
2  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc In order to develop new products and new 
technology successfully, and to sustain or 
grow sales into multiple end markets, we 
must constantly develop our capability in 
terms of our human and other resources, 
specifically both our R&D and manufacturing 
capacity and capability, and the structure of 
our organisation. External opportunities will 
also be identified and evaluated to support the 
expansion of our capability.
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s 
printheads can be diverse but can be grouped 
to have similar characteristics and general 
imaging requirements.
Strategy in action
We have an exciting range of bulk piezo 
product launches planned for 2016, including 
a new family of printheads for coding and 
marking applications as announced in 
December 2015. 
We expect to be demonstrating our Thin Film 
technology at drupa from 31 May 2016 to  
10 June 2016.
We look increasingly to access new  
products and new technology through 
acquisitions and partnerships.
We continue to invest in our already  
world-class staff to expand our capability, 
to deliver our strategic plan.
We have a number of product launches 
planned in 2016 for a variety of market 
applications.
The Xaar Print Bar System launched in 
September 2015 is proving popular, with 
deliveries against the first customer orders 
expected in the next few months.
Our plans for 2016 What we did in 2015
Our Thin Film programme progressed  
to plan in 2015, and we saw the launch  
of several new products, including: 
• Xaar 1002 GS12U printhead – perfect 
for UV applications such as Direct-to-
Shape and packaging
• Xaar Print Bar System – a new product 
which incorporates the Xaar 1002 family 
of high-precision industrial printheads 
into a standalone printing system
Under the leadership of our new Chief 
Executive we reviewed and updated 
our strategy in 2015. The strategy is 
more externally focussed than ever; 
we must understand our markets, our 
customers and our partners, and apply 
our internal resources to deliver value-
adding solutions which achieve truly 
transformational benefits.
In ceramic tile manufacturing, we  
continue to lead the market with 
innovative solutions which unlock 
previously inaccessible opportunities  
for our partners.
Our collaboration with KHS to deliver  
an innovative solution for Martens brewery 
in Belgium marks a further step forward  
in the Direct-to-Shape sector.
To penetrate any market successfully, an 
eco-system of technical and commercial 
partnerships must be formed to drive and 
support market conversion.
We continue to work with the leading 
OEMs in our target sectors as well as the 
appropriate fluid suppliers, hardware and 
software integrators, and substrate suppliers. 
New partnerships and collaborations are 
expected to be announced throughout 2016. 
Xaar developed various partnerships  
and collaborations in 2015. 
A new ceramic ink partnership with 
Sinocera Create-Tide in China was 
announced in May 2015.
Collaborations with Lawter and with 
Guangdong Dowstone Technology Co Ltd 
were also announced in the year.
We manage our product development 
programmes across three horizons: short term by 
delivering updates and improvements; medium 
term by developing new products or derivatives 
using existing technologies; and longer term 
through research and development of novel 
technologies. Alongside our internal development 
programmes we seek opportunities to access, 
through acquisition or partnership, new products 
and technology from external sources.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  3
