 For our 25
th
 anniversary year I am pleased 
to report that Xaar has undergone some 
important and progressive changes over 
the past twelve months, helping to deliver 
a period of financial stability following the 
challenges of 2014. Our largest market 
today, ceramic tiles, returned to more 
consistent and predictable sales levels 
in 2015 following the ups and downs of 
2013 and 2014. This was complemented 
by strong growth in Packaging and a solid 
performance across our other applications.
Our new CEO Doug Edwards, who joined 
in January 2015, has implemented some 
important changes to our strategy, our 
culture and our outlook. We are more 
focussed externally than ever before; 
understanding our markets, customers 
and partners is key to achieving our newly 
established aspirational vision of growing 
to £220 million of annual sales by 2020. 
Our intensified external outlook applies  
to new technology and new products too; 
we will carefully partner and acquire to 
complement our own world class product 
development, to achieve success in 
leading the digital inkjet revolution.
Stabilisation, change and vision
Chairman’s report
2015 has been an encouraging period  
for Xaar, characterised by both stability  
and by change.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
16 March 2016
We started 2015 following a difficult period in 
the second half of 2014 that saw our sales of 
printheads into ceramic tile manufacturing reduce 
substantially as growth rates in the Chinese 
property market slowed. However, our sales  
into ceramic tiles in 2015 performed in line with 
our expectations, with improved consistency  
in monthly sales volumes during the period.  
The performance in ceramics, when combined 
with strong growth in the packaging segment 
and expected performance in other applications, 
resulted in total revenue for the year of £93.5 
million (2014: £109.2 million). Having taken 
decisive cost reduction action in the fourth 
quarter of 2014, the financial performance 
in 2015 was encouraging, with an adjusted 
operating profit margin of 22%, consistent  
with overall performance in 2014.
Under Doug’s leadership, we have critically 
reviewed and updated our strategy, and 
subsequently made a number of important 
organisational and cultural changes. Our long 
term opportunities remain substantial and our 
reinforced external focus, including active pursuit 
of partnerships and acquisitions, will help us 
achieve our goals. Our balance sheet remains 
strong and will help us to exploit inorganic growth 
opportunities, as we continue to invest in world 
class products and capitalise on organic growth 
opportunities. I am particularly excited by our 
8  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  Xaar plc progress in 2015 and our near term product 
pipeline, including our transformational  
Thin Film printhead technology (P4) which we’ll 
be demonstrating at drupa in June 2016.
The Group follows the 2014 UK Corporate 
Governance Code. Board meetings are 
supported by detailed papers and timely 
minutes. Attendance by all members remains 
excellent and I take this opportunity to thank 
them for their continuing commitment and 
professionalism. The Board continues to 
take dedicated days to consider and review 
the Group’s strategy. Detailed market and 
competitive analysis is undertaken in advance 
and the future direction and capabilities of  
the Group are debated in detail. All members 
of the Board are evaluated annually against 
specific and relevant performance criteria.
I would like to thank our employees for their 
hard work and dedication through 2015.  
There have obviously been some important 
change across the business, and the support  
of people getting behind those changes is 
much appreciated. As previously announced 
we will be closing our Sweden plant in 2016 
following almost 20 years of service as part 
of Xaar. I would personally like to thank our 
Swedish colleagues for their dedication and 
hard work over the entire period. 
2015 has been an encouraging year for Xaar, 
characterised by both stability and by change. 
Our ambition remains undiminished. Indeed, 
our renewed external focus, vision and strategy 
has increased our long term aspirations. We are  
focussed on executing our strategy to capitalise 
on the substantial long-term potential. We 
will continue to invest in R&D and capitalise 
on organic growth potential while identifying 
partnership and acquisition opportunities.  
This will all contribute towards growing Xaar 
and improving our diversification by market, 
product and geography. We have a very  
strong team in place and I thank them  
all for their continuing efforts.
Board changes
In addition to our CEO change 
there have been a number of Board 
changes in 2015 and 2016.
• On 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined 
the Board in the role of Chief Human 
Resources Officer. Following a review  
of the Board structure, Jim has stepped 
down from the Board on 16 March  
2016. He will continue in his role as  
Chief Human Resources Officer
• On 27 April 2015 Edmund Creutzmann, 
Chief Technology Officer, resigned from 
the Board 
• On 13 May 2015 David Cheesman,  
Non-Executive Director, retired from  
the Board at the Company AGM
• On 1 August 2015 Margaret Rice-Jones 
joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, to replace David Cheesman
• On 11 December 2015 Richard Barham, 
Chief Customer Officer, resigned from 
the Board
• On 4 January 2016 Chris Morgan joined 
the Board as a Non-Executive Director
Finally 2016 will mean that I have completed 
three terms of three years as Chairman of the 
Board and in accordance with the Combined 
Code, will step down at the end of September 
this year. It has been a privilege to serve in this 
capacity for one of the leading companies in 
such a dynamic segment of the global printing 
industry. During this period at Xaar we have 
seen many advances, some notable success 
and some challenges that we have overcome.  
I remain as excited by the potential as the  
day I joined.
On that topic I am pleased to confirm that 
Robin Williams will succeed me as Chairman 
from 1 October 2016. Robin has acted as the 
Senior Independent Director since May 2011 
and has been chairman of the Audit Committee 
since 2010 when he joined the Board. Robin is 
not only very familiar with the Company but has 
substantial and relevant external experience 
that will ensure continued appropriate 
stewardship of the Board and maintenance of 
Xaar’s high standards of corporate governance. 
I congratulate Robin and wish him every 
success in his new role. The Company intends 
to recruit a new independent Non-Executive 
Director during 2016 in order to achieve 
the minimum best practice Board structure 
of having an equal balance of Executive 
and independent Non-Executive Directors 
(excluding the Chairman). The anticipated 
Board structure will therefore be three Executive 
Directors, three independent Non-Executive 
Directors and a Chairman.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc  •  Annual Report and Financial Statements 2015  •  9
