 06 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Highlights
 f 2015 has been another 
transformational year for Zoopla 
Property Group as we delivered 
strong revenue and Adjusted 
EBITDA growth 
 f Acquisition of uSwitch helping us 
move further towards our vision
 f The Group’s websites enjoyed over 
40 million visits per month in FY15 
 f We reached a significant milestone of 
over 7 million app downloads to date 
 f We welcomed more great talent into 
the Group including Steve Weller and 
his team at uSwitch
FY15 summary
2015 has been another transformational year 
for Zoopla Property Group as we delivered strong 
revenue and Adjusted EBITDA of £107.6 million 
and £48.7 million respectively. Significant progress 
has been made towards our vision of being the 
consumer champion at the heart of the home 
as a result of the successful acquisition of uSwitch, 
the UK’ s number one home services comparison 
website and lead generation platform. Following 
this key acquisition, which was completed on 
1 June 2015, the Group now has two key 
operating divisions: Property Services and 
Comparison Services.
The Group’s websites enjoyed over 40 million 
visits per month in FY15 which generated over 
2 million leads per month on average for our 
property partners and helped over 1 million 
consumers compare and save money with 
our comparison partners. Mobile growth has 
continued to be a key feature of the business 
evolution, accounting for over 62% of all visits 
during the year.
Property Services 
Despite the reduction in our UK Agency partners 
and inventory as a result of the launch of a new 
agent-owned portal, which prevents its members 
from advertising on more than one of the other 
established property portals, we have continued 
to grow our audience and ARPA across every 
vertical. Revenue in the Property Services 
division was £79.9 million. Traffic to our property 
platform continued to grow with total visits up 
4% year-on-year and we also reached a significant 
milestone of over 7 million app downloads to 
date as consumers continue to use our 
services as their primary resource for searching 
and researching the property market.
Comparison Services
The Comparison Services division has 
outperformed expectations in the four months 
since it was established following the acquisition 
of uSwitch. Both the Energy and Communications 
verticals have benefited from our market-leading 
position, competitive consumer offerings and 
underlying structural growth in the switching 
market through increased consumer awareness. 
The regulatory environment remains positive 
for switching as a means for consumers to 
get easy access to the best deals in the market. 
We look forward to further developing the Financial 
Services vertical over the next 12 months. 
Revenue in the Comparison Services division 
for the four months from 1 June 2015 was 
£27.7 million.
Executing on our strategy
We continue to lead innovation and deliver on 
our strategy of extending the ZPG proposition 
beyond property search to provide the most 
useful resources for consumers when finding, 
moving or managing their home and be the 
most effective marketing channel for related 
business partners. This strategy will allow us 
to monetise all stages of the property journey 
and both movers and non-movers alike. 
The Group will further benefit from our 
multi-brand, multi-channel approach, delivering 
growth from both our Property Services and 
Comparison Services divisions.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
The acquisition of 
uSwitch was a key step 
towards our vision of 
being the consumer 
champion at the 
heart of the home
Strategic report 07 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
Acquisition of uSwitch
The acquisition of uSwitch, the market-leading 
brand in home services price comparison, in June 
this year gives us the opportunity to develop our 
combined services and become the consumer 
champion at the heart of the home. uSwitch 
continues its mission to help consumers find 
the best deals and save money on their household 
bills and during the year offered an exclusive 
collective switch with the cheapest dual fuel 
deal available on the market in over four years, 
empowering consumers to save an average of 
£419 off their annual energy bills. The integration 
of services across our platform over time will 
drive enhanced user engagement and create 
unique opportunities for our partners.
Investing in our brands
We continue to invest heavily in our brands in terms 
of both product and marketing. We launched 
a number of new features during the past year 
with many more planned for the year ahead. 
Some of the highlights in the Property Services 
division include the launch of Real-Time Listings 
on our property websites, allowing the publishing 
of updates to property listings within minutes. 
We also launched FindaPro, providing users 
with access to thousands of local tradesmen 
such as builders, architects and painters. 
In the Comparison Services division, uSwitch 
launched a new iOS app, allowing users 
to scan their energy bills to get an instant 
comparison with the ability to then switch 
providers via the app. Our marketing efforts 
continue to deliver as each of our brands are 
amongst the best-known and most-trusted 
digital brands in the UK with continued high 
levels of consumer awareness. 
Looking forward
Whilst the past year has not been without its 
challenges in our Property Services division, 
we remain focused on delivering great services 
to our audience and great value to our partners. 
We are excited by the opportunities that will 
come from our continued investment in the 
Comparison Services division and the integration 
of its products across our platform. We will 
continue to invest in marketing our brands and 
developing our integrated proposition to deliver 
on our strategy in 2016. 
Finally, we will ensure that we continue to attract 
and retain the best talent in the market and 
I am delighted to welcome Steve Weller and his 
team at uSwitch to the ZPG family. I would also 
like to take this opportunity to thank the Group’s 
management team and staff for their continued 
passion and dedication to our mission. 
 
 
Alex Chesterman
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s Q&A
What was the rationale behind the uSwitch acquisition?
Our vision has always been about more than just property search. 
We want to help consumers throughout the entire property lifecycle – 
helping them to find their next home, with their move and managing 
their home. The acquisition of uSwitch has been a great step towards 
our strategic vision of being the consumer champion at the heart 
of the home.
What does “the consumer champion at the heart of the home” mean?
This vision is at the centre of everything we do and all of our services 
are designed to empower consumers to make smarter decisions. 
We provide unique data and tools to help our users choose the right 
home, find the best deals and save money on their household bills. 
What was your highlight of 2015?
The acquisition of uSwitch was, of course, the key highlight of the year as it 
allows us to move much further towards delivering on our vision. We have 
also welcomed more great talent into the Group and launched further 
new innovative products and services for our consumers and partners. 
How has the business evolved from one year ago?
2015 has been both exciting and challenging. We have effectively doubled 
in size in terms of revenue and headcount through the acquisition 
of uSwitch but are obviously disappointed by the reduction in UK 
Agency partners resulting from the launch of Agents’ Mutual, which 
prevents its members from advertising on all major portals. We look 
forward to welcoming back these partners over time as we remain 
the best value marketing channel for property professionals. 
What does 2016 hold for Zoopla Property Group?
We plan to continue to innovate and grow the business and continue to 
deliver on our mission to provide the most useful resources for consumers 
when finding, moving or managing their home and to be the most effective 
marketing channel for related business professionals. In particular, I am 
excited by both the standalone potential in the key operating divisions 
and the opportunities to maximise synergies across the Group.
“ Significant progress has been made towards our vision of being the consumer 
champion at the heart of the home as a result of the successful acquisition 
of uSwitch, the UK’s number one home services comparison website.”
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
