 04 Helping consumers make smarter decisions
Highlights
 f In June, we announced the 
successful completion of the 
uSwitch acquisition 
 f Secured the long-term commitment 
of Alex Chesterman, Founder 
and CEO, to continue leading the 
Group to achieve its significant 
growth potential
 f Appointed Vin Murria as an 
Independent Non-Executive Director 
I am pleased to announce the Group’s results for the year.
Our revenue and profits have grown significantly 
this year as a result of the newly acquired 
Comparison Services division performing ahead of 
expectations and the continued robust 
performance in the Property Services division. 
Total revenue has increased by 34% to 
£107.6 million and Adjusted EBITDA has 
increased by 23% to £48.7 million. These 
figures include four months of uSwitch trading 
following the successful acquisition in June. 
The acquisition was funded by a mixture of 
existing cash and a new five year revolving credit 
facility which was secured based on the highly 
cash-generative nature of the business.
Our consumer-led approach and proposition 
have helped to drive strong engagement on 
our property websites and mobile apps as 
consumers continue to rely on the unique 
services and data we provide. The launch of 
a new competitor negatively impacted our UK 
Agency numbers at the start of the calendar 
year but as the year progressed, this churn 
slowed significantly and we returned to positive 
growth in May. After five months of consecutive 
UK Agency growth, the Group is well positioned 
for long-term success.
Acquisition
In June, we announced the successful completion 
of the acquisition of Ulysses Enterprises Limited 
and its subsidiaries (together, “uSwitch”). Founded 
in 2000, uSwitch is the UK’s number one price 
comparison website and lead generation platform 
in the home services sector (energy and 
communications) and is one of the most widely 
recognised and trusted brands in the price 
comparison space. The acquisition of uSwitch 
was a transformational step in the Group’s 
mission to be the most useful resource for 
consumers and the most effective marketing 
partner for professionals across the property 
space. uSwitch has outperformed since the 
acquisition and the Board is pleased with the 
progress made on its integration into the 
Group so far.
Financial performance and dividends
Adjusted EBITDA was up 23% to £48.7 million 
(2014: £39.6 million) and Adjusted basic earnings 
per share (EPS), which excludes exceptional 
items, was up 29% to 8.4 pence per share 
(2014: 6.5 pence per share). We maintain a 
progressive dividend policy based on the strong 
cash generation and long-term earnings potential 
of the Group. The Directors have proposed a 
final dividend of 2.5 pence per share to be paid 
in respect of the year ended 30 September 2015. 
Chairman’s statement
Our consumer-led 
approach and proposition 
have helped to drive 
strong engagement 
Strategic report 05 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2015
This, together with the interim dividend of 
1.0 pence per share, brings the total dividend 
in respect of the 12 months ended 30 September 
2015 to 3.5 pence per share. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, this will be paid on 3 March 2016 
to all shareholders on the share register on 
18 December 2015. 
Share capital 
There has been no significant change to the 
share capital of the Company since last year. 
Following the discounted sale of shares to our 
UK Agency partners as part of our exclusive 
anniversary offer, Daily Mail and General Trust Plc 
(DMGT) still remains the largest single investor 
in the Company with a holding of 31.3%. 
Alex Chesterman, Founder and CEO, holds 
3.1%. The Company continues to build up a 
register of respected institutional shareholders.
The Board
This past year has been a busy one for the 
Board with particular focus on the increased 
competition in the property portal space and 
the acquisition of uSwitch.
The Board received support from 84% of 
shareholders regarding the introduction of a 
Value Creation Plan (VCP) in order to secure the 
long-term commitment of Alex Chesterman, 
Founder and CEO, to continue to lead the 
business and realise the significant growth 
potential of the Group.
Another key area of focus for the Board in 2015 
was the recruitment of an additional independent 
non-executive director. After a careful and 
rigorous search, the Company announced the 
appointment of Vin Murria as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 July 2015. 
Vin has 25 years’ experience of working with 
private equity-backed and publicly listed 
companies, focusing on the software sector. 
Following Vin’s appointment, the Board now 
comprises 10 Directors, two of whom are female, 
with a good diverse balance of backgrounds, 
skills and experience to meet the challenges of 
the year ahead, whilst implementing and driving 
the Group’s strategic direction and maintaining 
the highest standards of corporate governance.
Biographies of all members of the Board 
appear on pages 34 and 35.
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s next Annual General Meeting 
(AGM) will be held on Thursday 25 February 2016. 
The resolutions at the AGM will be conducted 
on a poll as we believe that this inclusive method 
enables the views of the broadest number of 
shareholders to be taken into account. I am 
very much looking forward to the opportunity 
to meet with shareholders at the AGM.
It has been an exceedingly busy, exciting and 
challenging year and I have been particularly 
impressed by the commitment and resolve 
of Alex and his team.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
everyone in the Group for their contribution 
throughout the past year. 
Mike Evans
Chairman
“ Our revenue and profits have grown significantly this year as a result of the 
newly acquired Comparison Services division performing ahead of expectations 
and the continued robust performance in the Property Services division.”
Our latest campaign: Zoopla billboards
Following the success of its previous 
campaigns, Zoopla launched a new 
national marketing campaign in August 
which included stand-out billboards, buses 
and radio adverts. The new comprehensive 
campaign evolves the current visual 
style and was designed to demonstrate 
astonishing Zoopla data and the 
informative and useful role the portal 
plays when searching for a home.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
