 4
Zotefoams plc
Annual Report 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Results
Total Revenue increased by 11% to a record 
£54.44m (2014: £49.08m), with good growth 
from all business units, while profit before 
tax and exceptional items increased by 14% 
to £6.01m (2014: £5.27m). Basic earnings 
per share before exceptional items grew by 
3.7% to 11.1p (2014: 10.7p). Group Revenue 
increased by 10% to £53.87m (2014: 
£48.95m) and profit before tax increased  
by 50% to £6.01m (2014: £4.01m).
Polyolefin foams, sold under the AZOTE
®
 
brand, is our largest business unit and 
recorded a Total Revenue increase of 8%  
to £43.61m (2014: £40.44m). Sales from 
High-Performance Products (‘HPP’) 
increased by 25% to £8.27m (2014: £6.61m) 
and now represent 15% (2014: 13%) of Total 
Revenue. MuCell Extrusion LLC (‘MEL ’) sales 
grew 25% to £2.62m (2014: £2.09m). 
Strategy
Zotefoams’ strategy is to expand through  
a combination of profitable organic growth 
of our Polyolefin and HPP businesses, new 
customers for our MEL technology licensing 
business, and through partnerships or 
acquisitions in related technologies, 
products or markets.
Objectives
We target sales growth in our core Polyolefin 
business in excess of twice the average rate 
of global GDP growth. Our largest markets 
are Europe and North America, served by 
manufacturing facilities in Croydon, UK, and 
in Kentucky, USA, where we are currently 
investing in additional capacity. In Asia we 
have a joint-venture agreement with INOAC 
Corporation of Japan to develop the market 
for our AZOTE
®
 polyolefin foams. We are 
also committed to developing a portfolio  
of unique foam products from high-
performance polymers, with significant 
competitive advantages over rival materials, 
and to increase the customer base for 
MuCell
®
 extrusion technology. This will allow 
us to command higher margins and affirm 
our position as a leading foam technology 
company. Delivering on part of our strategy 
in Asia, we are investing in a foam moulding 
operation in China to supply T-FIT
®
 
advanced insulation materials through our 
joint venture Kunshan ZOTEK King Lai 
Limited (‘KZKL ’) with a local partner, the  
King Lai Group. We intend to achieve growth 
while continuing to improve our operating 
margins and return on capital employed. 5
Zotefoams plc
Annual Report 2015 Strategic Report Governance Financial
Investment
Zotefoams’ growth is supported by a 
programme of investment in both capacity 
and technology. The largest single 
investment is in our Walton, Kentucky, 
facility, where a high-pressure autoclave 
along with supporting extrusion capacity 
and related infrastructure is now expected  
to be commissioned in the first half of 2017. 
This facility was proceeding to plan in all 
significant aspects until the supplier 
informed us of an unscheduled delay in  
the delivery of the autoclave. 
Improvements in efficiency and output from 
existing capacity at our Croydon site, 
together with targeted investment will, we 
expect, cover our capacity needs until the 
Kentucky facility is fully commissioned. 
Additional investment at our Croydon site is 
also planned in anticipation of further growth 
in HPP sales volumes.
Talent
Zotefoams’ business relies on the skills, 
effort and dedication of our people and, on 
behalf of the Board, I would like to extend 
my thanks to each and every one of them. 
We recognise that talent management is key 
to the delivery of opportunities created by 
our product portfolio and are increasing  
our investments in people, training and 
development to meet our ambitious goals.
Board composition
On 1 February 2016 Gary McGrath was 
appointed Finance Director in succession  
to Clifford Hurst, who retires from the Board 
on 16 May 2016. On behalf of the Board and 
employees, I would like to thank Clifford for 
his part in making Zotefoams a success over 
his past 15 years of service and wish him  
all the best for the future. On 31 March this 
year I will retire as Chairman of the Board,  
a post I have held since 2007, to be 
succeeded by Steve Good, who joined 
Zotefoams in 2014 as a Non-Executive 
Director and was appointed Chairman 
Designate in November 2015. I wish both 
Gary and Steve all the best at what is a very 
exciting time for Zotefoams.
Dividend
In 2010 the Board adopted a progressive 
dividend policy subject to profit growth, 
investment requirements and the other 
needs of the Group. I am pleased to say we 
intend to retain this policy and, therefore, the 
Board is proposing a final dividend of 3.8p 
per ordinary share (2014: 3.7p) which, if 
approved by the shareholders, would make 
a total of 5.60p per ordinary share for the 
year (2014: 5.45p), an increase of 3%. If 
approved, the final dividend will be paid on 
25 May 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 22 April 2016.
Current trading and prospects
Sales for the first two months of 2016 have 
been higher than those of the comparative 
period in 2015. Sales in AZOTE
®
 polyolefin 
foams have grown in line with our long-term 
target of twice the rate of global GDP 
growth, while our HPP business has also 
experienced a strong start to the year. MEL 
is currently experiencing high activity levels 
in machinery commissioning, following a 
particularly strong fourth quarter in 2015. 
The majority of Zotefoams’ costs are sterling 
denominated, while approximately 80% of 
sales are outside the UK, mainly invoiced in 
US dollars or euros. The recent relative 
weakness of sterling will, therefore, have a 
positive impact on our Group, although this 
is unlikely to be significant this year, as the 
majority of expected foreign exchange 
exposure during 2016 has been hedged,  
in accordance with our policy, at rates 
prevailing before the recent sterling 
weakness. The price of our major raw 
material, low-density polyethylene, remains 
high but at a similar level to last year’s 
average price.
Outlook
Zotefoams sells globally into a variety of 
industries and we are therefore influenced 
by, and mindful of, worldwide economic 
conditions. Our strategy of organic 
development for materials based on our 
proprietary technology offers higher growth 
potential, but is accompanied by timelines 
which can be difficult to predict as we enter 
new applications or markets. We believe 
certain of our longer term developments are 
now reaching the point where market 
success is much more likely and we plan to 
further increase resources to support these 
opportunities. While being mindful of market 
and macro-economic conditions, the Board 
anticipates 2016 being another year of 
growth and remains confident about the 
long-term prospects for our business.
Nigel Howard
Chairman
14 March 2016
Read more about our strategy
See page 6–9
CHANGES AHEAD
“It was clear when I joined Zotefoams 
late in 2014 that the Group had an 
exciting range of growth opportunities 
and was transitioning into a multi-site, 
multi-product, international company. 
The Group benefits from unique 
technologies, positioned to take 
advantage of global environmental and 
regulatory trends, has a product range 
with persuasive value propositions for 
our current and target customers, and 
strong barriers to entry, giving it an 
excellent platform for future growth.
After 18 months on the Board I am 
delighted to become Chairman, 
succeeding Nigel Howard, who has 
done a tremendous job in helping 
create an organisation with solid 
foundations and entrepreneurial flair. 
The key challenge ahead for the 
business is to deliver the full value from 
its portfolio of growth projects. To 
accomplish this and to successfully 
execute our strategy, we need to invest 
in talent and build organisational 
capability to complete our transition 
and become a materially larger, fast 
growing, truly international technology-
driven Group. I am excited by this 
challenge and am looking forward to 
working with my fellow Board members 
and the management team to help 
deliver this for all of our stakeholders.”
Steve Good
Chairman Designate
Read more about our Board
See page 30–31
