 LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Jean-Paul Luksic
We continued to concentrate 
on what we know best – 
producing copper, reducing 
costs and building a platform 
for long-term growth.
Dear shareholders,
This year was one of consolidation. 
In 2013 we achieved a record year 
of production while focusing on cost 
control and productivity in a challenging 
macroeconomic environment with declining 
commodity prices. Those macroeconomic 
challenges continued through 2014 and 
were further complicated by heightened 
geopolitical tensions around the world that 
has created an atmosphere of uncertainty 
for investors. As a Group, we continued 
to concentrate on what we know best – 
producing copper, reducing costs and building 
a platform for long-term growth.
Our three-pillar strategy remains unchanged. 
We focus first on optimising our existing 
operations, where investment is generally 
most effective and generates the fastest 
and highest returns. Secondly, we look 
for sustainable, organic growth in the 
areas around our operations, particularly in 
the Los Pelambres and Centinela mining 
districts, where we benefit from our existing 
developed infrastructure and the ability to 
share common services. Finally, we look for 
growth further afield where considerable and 
more diverse opportunities exist, but where 
we do not have the benefit of any organic 
synergies. We have been active in all three 
areas during the course of this year.
The completion of the concentrator expansion 
at Centinela in 2015 will increase production 
there, and in our two mining districts we are 
advancing our Encuentro Oxides, Pelambres 
Incremental Expansion, and Centinela Second 
Concentrator projects. As part of the second 
pillar, we will bring our new Antucoya mine 
into production during the second quarter of 
2015, while further afield we consolidated 
the ownership of the Twin Metals Minnesota 
project in the United States. Together, these 
projects provide the Group with a strong 
pipeline for growth over the coming years. 
I am especially pleased that when Antucoya 
is commissioned it will be the first major 
copper mine in Chile to be brought into 
production on budget and on time for five 
years. This will be a major achievement and 
reflects all of the hard work that our team 
and our contractors have put into making 
the project a success. Construction has 
taken place in a more benign cost and 
working environment than we have seen 
for many years. This has also contributed 
to the success of the project and is one of 
the reasons we decided to proceed with it 
at a time when others were curtailing their 
own investment programmes. Antucoya is 
expected to come on-stream following a 
period when copper prices have declined to 
five-year lows and are expected to recover 
into the next upturn.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Total revenue for the year was 
$5,290.4 million, 11.4% lower than last 
year, primarily reflecting the decline in metal 
prices, but also slightly lower sales volumes. 
This decline was reflected in EBITDA, which 
coupled with increased cash costs, fell by 
17.8% to $2,221.6 million, generating an 
EBITDA margin of 42.0%.
Earnings per share for the year were 61.0 
cents, excluding the $142.2 million deferred 
tax provision (and 46.6 cents per share 
including the provision) resulting from the 
changes in the Chilean tax law during 2014. 
This was 5.9 cents lower than in 2013, 
reflecting lower revenue and the $76.3 million 
increase in depreciation at Centinela. 
Cash flow from operations remained healthy 
at $2.5 billion, $151 million lower than last 
year with the Group’s attributable net cash 
reducing to $315.4 million by the end of 
the year.
Antofagasta plc | 05
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OVERVIEW LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
Total dividend for 2014, representing 
a 35% pay-out ratio.
21.5cents
The Company’s dividend policy is to 
determine the appropriate dividend each 
year based on consideration of the Group’s 
cash balance, the level of free cash 
flow and earnings generated during the 
year, and significant known or expected 
funding commitments and to pay a total 
annual dividend equal to at least 35% of 
net earnings.
In view of the continued uncertainty in the 
copper market at the start this year, as well 
as uncertainties at Los Pelambres arising 
from an adverse court decision and actions by 
some protestors in February and March 2015, 
the Board decided to recommend a final 
dividend of 9.8 cents per share, bringing the 
total dividend for the year to 21.5 cents per 
ordinary share. This represents a total amount 
of $212.0 million and a pay-out ratio of 35% 
(based on earnings excluding the deferred tax 
provision resulting from the changes in the 
Chilean tax law during 2014).
This is in line with the Company’s policy to 
determine the appropriate dividend each 
year based on consideration of the Group’s 
cash balance, the level of free cash flow and 
earnings generated during the year and to 
pay a total annual dividend equal to at least 
35% of net earnings. However, given the 
uncertainties at Los Pelambres, the Company 
will keep its dividend policy, and the amount 
of future dividends, under close review until 
it has greater clarity as to the resolution of 
these matters. 
BOARD CHANGES
During the year there were a number of 
changes to the Board and I was pleased 
to welcome two new members, Vivianne 
Blanlot who joined in March and Jorge Bande, 
who joined in December. Both Vivianne and 
Jorge have extensive experience across 
the energy, mining, and water sectors and 
Vivianne has also held several senior positions 
in the public sector, including as Executive 
Director of the Chilean Environmental Agency. 
Both Directors are regarded by the Board as 
independent and will bring new ideas and 
perspectives to our discussions.
In September I decided to step back from the 
position of Executive Chairman to become 
Non-Executive Chairman. At the same time 
Diego Hernández took on the role of Group 
CEO, having previously been responsible 
for the mining division. These changes 
reflect the development of the Group and 
my role is now less focused on the day-to-
day operations and more concerned with 
the strategic development of the Group and 
leading the Board. 
At the end of August Nelson Pizarro stepped 
down as a Director to take up the position 
of CEO of Codelco. Nelson had been on the 
Board for two years and I thank him for the 
valuable contributions he made while he was 
with us. 
In addition, certain changes were made to 
the composition of the Board Committees. 
The responsibilities of the Nomination 
Committee were extended to include 
corporate governance matters and the 
name of the Committee has been changed 
to reflect this. All of the Committees have 
performed well and I thank the members 
of the Board serving on the Committees for 
their efforts during the year.
When Antucoya is 
commissioned it will be 
the first major copper mine 
in Chile to be brought into 
production on budget and 
on time for five years.
06 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 As part of a series of actions taken by UK 
regulators to strengthen minority shareholder 
protection in controlled companies such as 
ours, new Listing Rules came into force this 
year that require the Company to enter into 
a relationship agreement with its controlling 
shareholders. The Company has therefore 
replaced the existing relationship agreement 
it had with its controlling shareholders, 
the Luksic family, with a new agreement. 
This reflects the requirements of the new 
Listing Rules through the inclusion of certain 
mandatory independence provisions in 
the agreement. The Company and I, as a 
representative of the controlling shareholders, 
believe that this further level of transparency 
will clarify the relationship and provide 
comfort to all shareholders on how the 
Company conducts its business. The new 
agreement was signed in November.
AN EVOLVING MINING ENVIRONMENT 
IN CHILE
The election of President Michelle Bachelet 
in 2014 has resulted in a period of legislative 
change in Chile. The President, who with 
her coalition partners enjoys a majority in 
both houses of Congress, has placed reform 
at the centre of her legislative programme. 
This programme has seen Congress approve 
a tax reform law in September and an 
education reform bill in January 2015 with 
other reforms in labour and constitutional 
affairs expected in the coming months. 
Antofagasta, and the private sector as a 
whole, will continue to monitor and adapt 
to these changes in the years ahead and to 
participate fully in the consultative processes. 
The Chile Mining and Development 
Commission was established in 2014, 
reflecting not only the critical importance of 
mining to the Chilean economy but the need 
to balance demands for faster socioeconomic 
development and redistribution with a period 
of prolonged uncertainty for the global 
mining industry. I was honoured to accept an 
invitation to serve on this panel of private and 
public sector industry leaders, co-ordinated 
by the National Innovation Council, tasked 
with identifying strategic priorities for Chile’s 
mining sector over the next 20 years.
At Antofagasta we are proud to be part of a 
group of people and companies committed 
to the future of mining in Chile. In December 
last year the Commission presented the 
President with a series of proposals to 
promote the development of sustainable 
mining, putting three principles at the heart 
of future development; that mining should be 
sustainable, inclusive and mutually beneficial 
for both operators and communities. 
As the listed mining company with the 
largest operations in Chile, Antofagasta holds 
these principles at the heart of our business 
and as a sustainable mining company we 
look beyond just the short term and invest 
in renewable energy and water, and in 
improving our environmental standards. 
As an inclusive company we also work with 
the local authorities, our peers, employees, 
and the communities in which we operate 
to create shared value for all stakeholders. 
SAFETY
Despite our continued efforts to avoid any 
fatalities at our operations, five people died 
during the course of the year. This is terrible, 
and the Board and I offer our heartfelt 
sympathy to the families of the deceased. 
We owe it to their memory, and the memory 
of the others lost over the years, to redouble 
our efforts to achieve our target of zero 
fatalities. I know that this is much easier to 
say than do, but I want to make sure that 
each and every employee knows that it is our 
top priority.
OUTLOOK
Sustainability and the health and safety of our 
employees are key to our success. We are 
proud to be in the mining business in Chile, 
creating shared value for all our stakeholders. 
We will continue to invest in our business 
and in the country to ensure a steady, stable, 
secure and profitable future for all.
2015 will be an important year for Antofagasta 
as we complete our current projects, prepare 
for our next phase of growth and face the 
challenges that the current macroeconomic 
environment brings. 
I would like to thank the senior management 
team and all of our employees for their valuable 
contribution over the year and look forward to 
another productive year ahead. 
We look beyond just the 
short term and invest in 
renewable energy and 
water, and in improving our 
environmental standards. 
Antofagasta plc | 07
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
