 While this prolonged 
downturn has certainly 
created a more difficult 
environment, it is not 
exceptional; this situation 
has arisen several times 
during my career.
When I joined Antofagasta in August 2012 
the mining industry was already starting to 
move into a cyclical downturn and it was 
clear that 2013 was going to be a difficult 
year as we adjusted to the changing 
business environment. 
The copper market continued to weaken 
throughout 2014, much as expected, with 
a surprisingly sharp drop at the beginning 
of 2015. However, while this prolonged 
downturn has certainly created a more 
difficult environment, it is not exceptional; this 
situation has arisen several times during my 
career. The secret is to use the opportunity 
to make changes that will benefit the Group 
once the market recovers – changes that are 
difficult to achieve in periods of high growth 
and high prices. We have therefore spent 
this year bedding down the improvements 
made in 2013 and implementing further 
initiatives. In our 2013 Annual Report I noted 
that the process of resetting the Group’s 
cost base would take at least until the end of 
2014 and this has been the case. The work 
continues and we are making good progress 
in reorganising our supply structures, cutting 
inventories and reducing operating and 
capital costs.
2014 HIGHLIGHTS
Copper production declined by 2.3% to 
704,800 tonnes in 2014, slightly lower than 
the record production levels achieved in 2013. 
Gold and molybdenum production were also 
lower at 270,900 ounces and 7,900 tonnes, 
respectively. This decline reflected expected 
lower grades for all metals, particularly 
copper grade at Los Pelambres and Centinela 
Cathodes and the gold grade at Centinela. 
Overall production of metals was, however, 
slightly better than we forecast at the 
beginning of the year.
Cash costs before by-product credits were 
$1.83/lb, 2.2% higher than in 2013, impacted 
by the lower grades and the one-off signing 
bonuses paid during the year, partly offset by 
the weakening of the Chilean peso. Net cash 
costs, at $1.43/lb, were 5.1% higher than last 
year as by-product credits were lower due to 
lower production and a weaker gold price. 
The single most significant pressure on 
costs came from the payment of bonuses 
to employees on the signing of new labour 
contracts at each of our mining operations. 
In Chile, we enter into labour agreements 
with employees for periods of up to four 
years, which included agreed pay increases 
and cash bonuses, typically paid up-front in 
line with local industry practice. During 2014 
the payment of the one-off bonuses and the 
provision of loans totalled some $0.04/lb. 
The bonus payments were offset by 
movements in the Chilean peso, which 
weakened by 15.2% during the year, reducing 
costs by $0.10/lb. As copper makes up over 
50% of Chile’s exports, when copper prices 
have fallen historically the peso has fallen 
as well, acting as a natural hedge for copper 
producers. In addition the Group made 
some $80 million of savings during the year, 
equivalent to $0.05/lb. These were achieved 
mainly through the merger of the Esperanza 
and El Tesoro mines into Minera Centinela, 
but also from other savings initiatives. 
Further savings will be made in both areas 
during 2015 and are expected to total 
$130 million.
STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 
Diego Hernández
08 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Although the expected surplus in the 
copper market in 2014 did not materialise, 
the average copper price fell from $3.32/lb 
in 2013 to $3.11/lb and closed the year at 
$2.88/lb. This resulted in the average realised 
price of copper being 8.5% lower in 2014 
at $3.00/lb. The average realised gold price 
declined by 7.1% to $1,261/oz, while the 
realised molybdenum price increased by 
10% to $11.0/lb.
HEALTH AND SAFETY
I am sorry to report that during 2014 
we had five fatalities in three separate 
incidents at the Group’s mining operations. 
This is unacceptable and I, and everyone 
at Antofagasta, extend our deepest 
condolences to the families of the 
deceased. The circumstances have been 
fully investigated and have led us to make 
changes to our procedures and practices. 
The health and safety of our employees and 
our contractors is of paramount importance to 
us and we are constantly striving to improve 
our performance. In 2013, we introduced a 
new safety and occupational health model 
and during 2014 several new measures were 
implemented as part of a process seeking to 
achieve continuous improvement. Our most 
important target remains zero fatalities and 
we will continue to endeavour to achieve this.
POSITIONED FOR GROWTH
During 2014, we made good progress 
advancing the projects under construction 
at Antucoya and Centinela, and early works 
started at Encuentro Oxides shortly before 
the completion of its feasibility study in 
November. The feasibility study on the 
Pelambres Incremental Expansion continued 
through the year and the pre-feasibility study 
on Centinela’s Second Concentrator will be 
completed in mid-2015. A pre-feasibility study 
was also completed in 2014 on the Twin 
Metals Minnesota project. These projects 
provide a healthy growth pipeline for the 
Group over the coming five to ten years.
At Antucoya, construction has continued 
throughout the year with all major milestones 
being achieved on schedule. The operation 
is scheduled for start-up during the second 
quarter of 2015 and will be operating at full 
production of 85,000 tonnes per year of 
cathodes in 2016. The project is expected to 
be completed at the budgeted construction 
cost of $1.9 billion.
At the Encuentro Oxides project we are 
trialling the use of our own project team to 
manage construction. Normally a project of 
this size would be managed by an EPCM 
contractor, but, following a review of 
management processes, we established 
that this project management model 
increased costs and reduced our control over 
project construction, potentially resulting 
in lost opportunities. We also undertook to 
reduce the original $756 million capital cost 
estimated in the pre-feasibility study and we 
have succeeded in this, with the feasibility 
study estimate showing capital costs reduced 
by $156 million.
Completion of the feasibility study for 
the Pelambres Incremental Expansion 
project was expected by the end of 2014. 
The technical aspects of the feasibility study 
have been completed, but the necessary 
permitting required before construction has 
not. The Environmental Impact Assessment 
(“EIA”) requires a baseline study of at least 
12 months which is currently under way. 
The formal completion of the feasibility 
study will be after the EIA is submitted as it 
may indicate that additional work should be 
included in the feasibility study. At this stage 
the pre-feasibility study capital expenditure 
estimate of $1.2 billion is unchanged.
Constrained sources 
of potential supply from 
greenfield projects will 
ensure that the longer-
term copper fundamentals 
remain strong.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW
Antofagasta plc | 09
OVERVIEW STATEMENT FROM THE CEO
The pre-feasibility study for the construction 
of a second concentrator at Centinela will be 
completed in mid-2015. The 90,000 tonnes 
per day concentrator will be located about 
7 km south of the existing concentrator and 
will be fed by ore from Esperanza Sur to the 
north and Encuentro Sulphides to the south. 
The scoping study estimate of the capital cost 
of the project is $2.7 billion and will increase 
Centinela’s annual production by an average 
of 140,000 tonnes of copper, 150,000 ounces 
of gold.
The EIA for the project will be submitted 
to the appropriate regulatory authorities in 
mid-2015. If it proceeds smoothly through 
the approval process the EIA should be 
ready approximately as the feasibility study 
is completed in mid-2016. Production is then 
expected to start in 2019.
At Centinela the feasibility study on the 
molybdenum plant has been completed 
and the necessary permits required before 
construction can commence are expected in 
mid-2015. The plant has now been designed 
to be easily expanded to accept feed from 
the Centinela Second Concentrator project. 
Capital costs are estimated to be $125 million 
with average production of some 2,400 
tonnes per annum of molybdenum in the first 
five years starting in late 2016.
Early in 2015, we completed the acquisition 
of Duluth Metals Limited to gain 100% 
ownership of the Twin Metals Minnesota 
project for a cash consideration of C$53m. 
The Duluth Complex is an attractive 
geological deposit and the Group will focus 
on further optimisations of the project while 
advancing the permitting process.
During the year the Group announced that 
the Michilla mine would run out of ore and 
close in December 2015 on completion of 
its current mine plan. The mine originally 
opened in 1959 and was acquired by the 
Group in 1980. Many of the workers from 
Michilla are being redeployed at other 
operations, but inevitably there will be some 
redundancies. Severance terms were agreed 
with the mine’s unions at the end of 2014 for 
employees who work through this year, to 
help minimise the uncertainty and allow for 
planning in this difficult time. However, as 
an alternative a sale process has also been 
initiated to determine if there is a purchaser 
that wishes to acquire the operation on 
acceptable terms, and if there is, the mine 
may continue in operation for some time 
to come. 
SUSTAINABILITY
In July 2014 we introduced a new clean 
source of energy at Los Pelambres when 
the El Arrayán wind farm came online. 
It now supplies the operation with about 
20% of its energy needs. Pelambres also 
agreed to purchase energy from two solar 
plants that will begin producing in 2015 
and 2016 respectively. By mid-2016, nearly 
50% of Pelambres’ energy will come from 
renewable sources. 
The Group continues to work with the 
communities where it operates; promoting 
initiatives where communities, local 
governments and private companies 
formulate a joint vision for both public 
and private investments. These initiatives 
increase local involvement, strengthen social 
investment and contribute to improving 
the sustainable development of the 
surrounding communities. 
OUTLOOK
The Group’s forecast for 2015 production is 
710,000 tonnes of copper, 250,000 ounces 
of gold and 8,000 tonnes of molybdenum. 
The copper production forecast comprises 
385,000 tonnes at Los Pelambres, 255,000 
tonnes at Centinela, 30,000 tonnes at 
Michilla and 40,000 tonnes at Antucoya. 
Local protests reduced expected copper 
production at Los Pelambres by some 8,000 
tonnes of copper. These protests, along with 
the adverse court ruling mean that there is 
some inherent uncertainty as to the potential 
impact on Los Pelambres’ 2015 production 
levels and the Group’s cost forecasts of cash 
costs before by-product credits of $1.75/lb 
and net cash costs of $1.40/lb. 
The new year started with a rapid drop in the 
copper price to below $2.50/lb and although 
there has been some recovery since then, 
the outlook for 2015 is for price volatility to 
continue. However, if the Chinese economy 
grows at the expected rate of 7.0% it now 
appears more likely that the copper market 
will be largely in balance rather than in surplus 
as was expected a few months ago. In the 
medium to long term the copper market 
continues to look positive. When the world 
economy picks up again and demand growth 
accelerates, constrained sources of potential 
supply, in particular from greenfield projects, 
will ensure that the longer-term copper 
fundamentals remain strong.
10 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC
report
CREATING VALUE  
THROUGH THE MINING LIFECYCLE 12
THE MARKETPLACE 20
KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE 22
KEY RELATIONSHIPS 25
STRATEGY FOR THE  
MINING BUSINESS 28
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 30
RISK MANAGEMENT 32
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
MINING DIVISION 38
THE EXISTING CORE BUSINESS 39
GROWTH PROJECTS  
AND OPPORTUNITIES 44
TRANSPORT 48
WATER 49
MAINTAINING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS 50
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
RESULTS 61
TURNOVER 62
CASH FLOWS 65
FINANCIAL POSITION 66
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT ABOUT  
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 66
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW
Antofagasta plc | 11 Antofagasta plc | 11
STRATEGIC REPORT
