 2014 WAS AN EXCEPTIONAL YEAR FOR THE LEGOLAND PARKS OPERATING 
GROUP . ALL SIX EXISTING LEGOLAND PARKS DELIVERED YEAR ON YEAR 
REVENUE GROWTH, BENEFITING FROM STRONG CAPITAL INVESTMENTS AND 
THE PHENOMENAL SUCCESS OF ‘THE LEGO MOVIE’. WITH LEGOLAND DUBAI 
AND LEGOLAND JAPAN ALREADY UNDER CONSTRUCTION AND LEGOLAND 
KOREA ALSO ANNOUNCED, WE ARE FIRMLY ON TRACK WITH OUR 
LEGOLAND PARK DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks
LEGOLAND
Parks
 The LEGO Movie launched  
at LEGOLAND California  
in February
2014 2013 Gr owth
Constant ­
Curr ency ­
Gr owth
Visitors (m) 12.7 11.5 +9.8%
Revenue (£m) 386 352 +9.5% +15.7%
Underlying EBITDA (£m) 142 127 +11.9% +19.2%
Underlying operating profit (£m) 120 106 +13.2% +21.1%
Like for like revenue growth  +13.2%
T rading ­performance
The LEGOLAND Parks Operating Group had an exceptional  
year in 2014, due to a continued successful capital investment 
programme and the impact of ‘The LEGO Movie’. A 9.8% 
growth in visitors converted into revenue growth of 15.7% 
and underlying operating profit growth of 21.1%, both on a 
constant currency basis, with reported numbers adversely 
affected by movements in foreign exchange rates. The flow 
through of incremental revenues to profit is tempered by the 
mix of revenues, variable trading and labour costs, as well as 
unexpected remedial costs at the LEGOLAND Windsor hotel. 
Existing ­estate­ and­capital­investment
In 2014, the highlight of the LEGOLAND parks capital  
investment cycle was the ‘high-year’ LEGO CHIMA water park  
at LEGOLAND California. This investment almost doubled the 
size of the existing water park and has been extremely popular 
with visitors. These factors, together with the launch of ‘The 
LEGO Movie’ at this attraction and generally good weather, 
helped secure the best summer ever at this resort. 
In LEGOLAND Billund, Denmark, we had a ‘medium-year’ 
investment, comprising the ‘Ghost -The Haunted House’ 
attraction and drop ride experience. This has performed  
well in attracting additional visitors to the resort.  
All the LEGOLAND Parks, especially the two North American 
sites, benefited significantly in 2014 from ‘The LEGO Movie’.  
Launched at LEGOLAND California in February, the film was  
a major blockbuster hit especially in the USA and the UK.  
This drove consumer demand for the LEGO product and 
visitation to all our LEGOLAND sites. Guests were able to 
visit the actual film set at LEGOLAND California, and across 
all the parks we reaped the rewards of strong marketing and  
promotional campaigns. 
We also benefited from more favourable weather in 2014 in the 
European parks, especially at Easter where the 2013 comparative 
period had been extremely challenging.
R esort ­positioning
The repositioning of the parks as short break destinations continues 
to be very popular with guests, driving higher satisfaction scores, 
higher spends and an increase in pre-booked business. In 2014, 
we opened the 68 bedroom King’s Castle hotel at LEGOLAND 
Deutschland Holiday Village which had an average occupancy 
rate of over 95% during the peak summer months. This augments 
the smaller Knight’s Castle hotel that opened the previous year.
Elsewhere we re-themed the Holiday Village at LEGOLAND 
Billund, which we took over at the start of 2013, and  
expanded the LEGOLAND Billund hotel with 24 highly  
themed new bedrooms.
The new LEGO CHIMA water park in LEGOLAND California
27
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - LEGOLAND Parks
Developing ­ new­LEGOLAND­Parks
We made significant progress in 2014 in our strategy to add at 
least one new LEGOLAND Park every three years, always with 
an unerring focus on the returns that can be generated from the 
three different financing and development models that we follow.
Operated and leased sites
In June 2014 we announced our plans for LEGOLAND Japan in 
Nagoya, scheduled for opening in 2017. Nagoya sits in the centre 
of Japan which is the second largest theme park market in the 
world. The development of the park will be supported by the 
City of Nagoya through the development of the local travel 
infrastructure including a 5,000 space car park. The site will 
have the potential both for future park expansion and on-site, 
themed accommodation. It will be developed under our ‘operated 
and leased’ model, where Merlin has an operating company that 
contributes a portion of total park investment and leases the 
balance of the assets from a third party; in this case from a 
company owned by KIRKBI (a shareholder in Merlin and a 
major shareholder in the LEGO Company).
In November 2014 we announced LEGOLAND Korea. This is 
also scheduled for a 2017 opening and is financed under a similar 
model to LEGOLAND Japan, in this case funded by a property 
company owned by a consortium of local public and private 
investors. This park will be situated on a picturesque island 
setting in Chuncheon, located approximately one hour from 
Seoul, South Korea, and within a two hour drive time for nearly 
24 million residents. National and regional governments and 
Chuncheon City will between them fund transportation 
and wider infrastructure support.
Management contracts
LEGOLAND Malaysia was developed under a ‘management 
contract’ model and this has been operating successfully since its 
opening in September 2012. We expect, with our local partners, 
to open LEGOLAND Dubai as the first LEGOLAND Park in 
the Middle East in 2016. Furthermore, we continue to pursue 
opportunities and may in time see one or more parks under  
this model in China.
Operated and owned
This is how the first five LEGOLAND Parks were developed,  
and we expect to identify more locations where this model  
can be applied. Specifically, we are exploring some encouraging 
opportunities for a third park in North America.
Customer ­satisfaction
Alongside the commercial performance and resort expansion, 
it is particularly pleasing to report that we have increased our 
already high customer satisfaction score across the LEGOLAND 
Parks Operating Group as a whole.
Looking ­forwar d
Alongside our longer term LEGOLAND Parks development 
programme, we continue to invest in capital projects both for 
new rides and accommodation offerings.
2015 will see a ‘high-year’ capital investment in a brand new 
LEGO Friends area at LEGOLAND Windsor along with similar 
smaller investments in California and Florida. Cinemas in all our 
LEGOLAND Parks and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres will 
benefit from an exclusive short 4D movie experience based 
on ‘The LEGO Movie’ and containing exciting new content.
In terms of accommodation, construction is on schedule for the 
opening of our second LEGOLAND hotel in the USA at the park 
entrance to LEGOLAND Florida in late spring 2015. This will 
combine with marketing opportunities from the opening of our 
other Midway attractions in Orlando this year. Plans are also in 
progress for further additions to our existing hotels and  
Holiday Villages for the years to come.
The LEGO product remains hugely popular and our 
co-operation with the LEGO Company and KIRKBI remains 
excellent, resulting in many initiatives which benefited our 
business in 2014 and will continue to do so in the future. This 
collaborative approach covers both tactical and strategic matters, 
with our teams meeting at least once a year to plan for future 
developments to our mutual benefit. Tactical collaboration occurs 
in all markets around events and promotional activities. On the 
strategic level we are well integrated into the long term product 
programmes of the LEGO Company and are seeing the results 
of this collaboration in such things as our planned new LEGO  
Friends areas in three LEGOLAND Parks for 2015.
LEGOLAND CASTLE HOTEL, GERMANY
Emmet and Wyldstyle from ‘The LEGO Movie’
CASE STUDY
 The LEGO product  
remains hugely popular and 
our co-operation with the 
LEGO Company is excellent
What did 
we do?
In April we continued our programme of transforming our 
theme parks into destination resorts when we opened our second 
LEGOLAND Castle hotel at the LEGOLAND Deutschland Holiday 
Village in Bavaria in southern Germany. The 68 bedroom King’s  
Castle hotel is a follow-up to the Knight’s Castle we opened in 2013.  
The hotel represented an investment of approximately £9 million  
and has been financed entirely from Merlin’s cash flow.
What was 
the result?
The project was delivered on time and on budget. Financial 
performance has been stronger than expected, outperforming the 
business case for developing the hotel without cannibalising our 
existing offers in the Holiday Village. Guest satisfaction scores have 
been very high and, in line with our experience in other resorts, even 
higher than for day visitors. Over 60% of visitors to the Holiday Village 
come from outside Germany; a trend that is increasing. This all 
continues to underpin the strategy of repositioning the parks as  
short break destinations.
How did 
we do it?
Merlin’s expert hotel team, combined with local architects and the 
local LEGOLAND Deutschland management team, were responsible 
for developing the product on the basis of the very successful smaller 
Knight’s Castle launched in 2013. The development and operational 
set up worked very well, leveraging the expertise that has been 
built up across the Group.
29 28
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents
