 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT Theme Parks
RESORT
Theme Parks
THE RESORT THEME PARKS OPERATING GROUP DELIVERED A SECOND 
SUCCESSIVE YEAR OF STRONG REVENUE AND EBITDA GROWTH SHOWING 
CONTINUED PROGRESS SINCE THE MARKET CHALLENGES FACED IN 2012. 
THIS WAS ACHIEVED THROUGH EFFECTIVE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE 
STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS OF PLANNED CAPITAL INVESTMENTS; 
TRANSFORMING THE THEME PARKS INTO SHORT BREAK DESTINATIONS; 
AND CAPITALISING ON GROUPWIDE STRATEGIC SYNERGIES.
2014 2013 Gr owth
Constant ­
Curr ency ­
Gr owth
Visitors (m) 12.0 11.2 +7.2%
Revenue (£m) 331 314 +5.6% +8.4%
Underlying EBITDA (£m) 87 81 +7.2% +11.6%
Underlying operating profit (£m) 60 54 +11.0% +16.4%
Like for like revenue growth  +7.2%
T rading ­performance ­ and­capital­investment
Trading performance for the Resort Theme Parks (RTP) 
Operating Group overall in 2014 built on the good performance 
of 2013 to show continued growth in visitor numbers, revenue 
and profit. Growth in visitors of 7.2% resulted in growth in 
revenue of 8.4% and underlying operating profit of 16.4%,  
both converted on a constant currency basis.
The strategic focus for RTP continues to be to create a 
portfolio of differentiated short break destinations based at 
unique theme park locations. Once again 2014 saw the launch 
of new compelling experiences at each of the RTP resorts, 
in accordance with our established capital investment cycles.  
The successful launch of each of these was key to ensuring 
revenue growth at every one of the six RTP resorts. 
The ‘high-year’ capital investment in RTP was the launch of a 
major new roller coaster ‘Flight of the Demons’ at Heide Park 
Resort in Germany, targeting the thrill-seeker market. In addition,  
Alton T owers introduced ‘CBeebies Land’ in association with BBC 
Worldwide. Based on the TV channel of the same name, this 
successfully attracted a wider demographic to the resort of 
families with children under the age of six. Thorpe Park also 
introduced a strong and internationally known Intellectual 
Property (IP) based attraction with ‘Angry Birds Land’, including 
a new and exclusive 4D movie experience developed in 
association with Rovio, the owner of the Angry Birds IP . The 
successful introduction of a lower priced Thorpe Park season 
pass, together with a new web/mobile booking platform and 
pricing structure, also helped to deliver growth in a challenging  
economic environment for the resort’s core 16-24 age group. 
Chessington World of Adventures launched ‘Scorpion Express’, 
the reinvigoration of an existing ride complete with new theming, 
fire effects and near misses, to cost-effectively deliver a new ride 
experience for the resort. Gardaland introduced ‘Prezzemolo 
Land’, a new wet and dry play area based on the park’s famous 
character mascot and targeted at younger children. In Italy the 
economic and political landscape continued to be difficult but 
despite this Gardaland has seen modest revenue and EBITDA 
growth. This was driven by the key management initiatives of 
increasing penetration of international tourists visiting Lake Garda; 
launching a successful ‘value for money’ season pass initiative for 
both the resident and tourist market; and further targeted 
cost saving initiatives to improve operational efficiency.  
Finally, Warwick Castle extended its ‘Horrible Histories Foul  
Fayre’ across the full operating season.
R esort ­positioning
A key future growth driver for RTP is increased investment in 
unique accommodation offerings to drive increased additional 
short break visitation, multi-day stays and pre-booked visits. 
In 2014 we successfully introduced the new 90 bedroom 
‘THORPE SHARK’ hotel at Thorpe Park and extended and 
improved the accommodation offering at Warwick Castle 
including the addition of two luxury ‘T ower Suites’ within the 
Castle itself. Later in the year we launched the 69 bedroom 
‘Azteca’ hotel at Chessington World of Adventures alongside 
the relaunch of the existing hotel as the ‘Safari’ themed hotel.
Strategic ­synergies
RTP both contributes to and benefits from the wider Merlin 
Group in terms of strategic synergies, with the continued 
success of customer promotions and the development of the 
Merlin Annual Pass. The problem of queues impacting customer 
satisfaction remains a key challenge for the theme park industry 
generally and a number of initiatives to alleviate the impact of 
queues were trialled in 2014. These included the introduction 
of mobile apps and electronic screens showing queue times and 
providing tips to avoid queues. We also trialled an online ticketing 
platform and a mobile based ‘Reserve and Ride’ virtual queuing 
system at Thorpe Park. Further initiatives and trials will continue 
in 2015 in this area.
Customer ­ satisfaction
With the uplift in visitor numbers to our attractions in 2014 it 
was vital that we maintained focus on our key KPI of customer 
satisfaction. It is a testament to the great teams across the RTP 
resorts that all sites increased their scores year on year.
Looking ­forwar d
Gardaland will have the ‘high-year’ capital investment in 2015 which 
will be ‘Oblivion’, a major roller coaster drop ride. Our longer term 
aim is to transform Gardaland into a major European short break 
destination for both Italians and international visitors alike so this 
will be an important step on that journey, as will the launch of a 
new highly themed ‘Adventure’ hotel planned for 2016. Work 
is also underway at Alton T owers on the 2015 launch of the  
‘Enchanted Village’ including both lodges and luxury tree-houses.
31
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents CASE STUDY
What did  
we do?
We introduced a new highly recognisable land to an existing area 
of the theme park. This was aimed primarily at families with young 
children, a previously under-represented demographic at Alton T owers, 
for whom a short break is considered an attractive proposition.
What was 
the result?
In 2014 Alton T owers saw a 10% increase in visitors driven by 
CBeebies Land, as well as an 8% increase in leisure room nights 
booked at the hotels. Research confirmed that 17% of visitors 
to CBeebies Land were new visitors to Alton T owers.  
How did  
we do it?
Having identified the potential of the target demographic, our 
attraction and creative teams identified CBeebies as a strong and 
compelling Intellectual Property (IP) asset that could deliver increased 
park visitation and short break visits to the resort. The team from 
Merlin Magic Making negotiated a licence deal with BBC Worldwide 
(who own the rights to CBeebies). The creative teams then worked 
closely with the BBC to develop a compelling experience that would 
transform an existing under-utilised area of the park with attractions 
and rides featuring famous CBeebies characters and shows such as 
‘Postman Pat’, ‘Charlie and Lola’, ‘In the Night Garden’, ‘Tree Fu T om’ 
and ‘Justin’s House’.
CBEEBIES LAND AT ALTON TOWERS RESORT
32
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents WORLDWIDE
MERLIN Magic	Making
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING IS THE UNIQUE RESOURCE THAT SITS AT THE  
HEART OF EVERYTHING MERLIN DOES. EMPLOYING OVER 300 PEOPLE, THIS 
SPECIALIST IN-HOUSE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT; CREATIVE; PRODUCTION; 
AND PROJECT MANAGEMENT GROUP CONSTANTLY RAISES THE BAR  
IN INNOVA TIVE THINKING.
MERLIN MAGIC MAKING
 
• Finds new business opportunities all over the planet.  
• Creates the highest class visitor attractions and        
 compelling propositions.
• Takes creative ideas and produces amazing  
 content for our attractions.
• Delivers them at market leading speed and value.
 
 FINDING  THE MAGIC
‘SITES ALREADY SECURED IN CHINA FOR 2016’
After a successful delivery of the 2014 pipeline things are looking 
very positive for 2015, with all sites secured and design and build 
programmes underway.
2016 is also shaping up to be in line with our strategic plans, with 
two sites already secured in China, as well as a number of other 
site opportunities in progress.
We have strengthened the team in North America with our first ever 
Site Search Director based full time in the USA, meaning we now have 
in-house Merlin influence in all our major development geographies.     
  CREATING  THE MAGIC
‘WE CONTINUE TO DEVELOP SOME VERY 
STRONG INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
RELATIONSHIPS’
It is never quiet when it comes to looking at the creative and 
innovative ways that we are able to drive the business forward. 
2014 has been no exception, with a host of new and exciting 
projects coming to fruition.
Our Midway roll out programme continued during 2014, 
including our first Dungeon foray outside of Europe, with the 
launch of the San Francisco Dungeon, in the USA; three Madame 
Tussauds launches (our most ever!) including our first business 
in Beijing; as well as a LEGOLAND Discovery Centre and a  
SEA LIFE Centre.
Things were no less impressive in our existing businesses  
whether it was ‘scaring the beegeebies’ out of you in our new 
haunted house concept in LEGOLAND Billund; confronting the 
wing coaster ‘Flug Der Dämonen’ at Heide Park; riding the rapids 
in our new ‘LEGO CHIMA’ water park in LEGOLAND California;  
or just taking a well earned rest in our new Azteca hotel at 
Chessington World of Adventures Resort.
We continue to develop some very strong Intellectual Property 
(IP) relationships with the BBC, Rovio and Marvel as evidenced 
by our most recent openings of the amazing ‘CBeebies Land’ 
at Alton T owers; ‘Angry Birds Land’ at Thorpe Park; and our  
‘Marvel Super Heroes 4D’ film at Madame Tussauds.
2015 will see IP relationships developed even further. We will 
introduce a Star Wars exhibition in the Madame T ussauds attractions 
in London and Berlin (see Case Study on page 37). In Midway our 
drive to introduce new brands continues at pace, so most exciting 
of all will be the launch in London in the summer of the world’s  
first Shrek Midway attraction ‘Shrek’s Adventure!’, created in  
close collaboration with the DreamWorks Animation team.
  PRODUCING  THE MAGIC
‘FANTASTIC LEGO MODELS…RECORD 
NUMBERS OF MADAME TUSSAUDS FIGURES…’
When reporting last year we thought that our production teams 
had scaled unbelievable new heights BUT we are excited to say 
that we have been even more productive in 2014.
Our five LEGO model facilities across the USA, UK, Denmark, 
Germany and Malaysia have again been able to deliver fantastic 
LEGO models to new accommodation in LEGOLAND 
Deutschland and our new (and best ever!) LEGOLAND 
Discovery Centre in Boston, as well as over 20 assignments  
in our existing businesses. 
Madame Tussauds figure production has again been at its highest 
ever, with over 230 wax figures produced for new openings in 
Singapore, Beijing, San Francisco and globally across the existing 
estate of attractions. 
35
Main Contents         We moved a group of 
captive bred penguins from  
our New Zealand SEA LIFE 
Centre to our SEA LIFE Centre in 
Birmingham in the UK, a story 
which was followed by BBC2
MERLIN Magic	Making MERLIN Magic 	 Making
‘WE AGAIN PLAYED A CENTRAL ROLE IN 
THE WIDER AQUARIUM COMMUNITY’
It has been a very busy year for Merlin’s Animal Welfare and 
Development team, with a whole host of projects centred 
around the welfare and wellbeing of our creatures.
Early on in the year we successfully moved a group of captive 
bred penguins from our New Zealand SEA LIFE Centre to our 
National SEA LIFE Centre in Birmingham in the UK, a story  
which was followed on UK national television by BBC2, for  
their ‘Penguins on a Plane’ mini-series.
We again played our part in the wider aquarium community, with 
leading roles on a number of BIAZA (British & Irish Association 
of Zoos and Aquariums) Committees and active participation  
in a number of industry conferences, think tanks and meetings.  
Core to this wider community strategy has been our continued 
work on a number of projects with the SEA LIFE Trust.
Innovation has also been a key activity in 2014, with a number  
of trials taking place with technology aimed at enhancing the  
SEA LIFE visitor experience, be it transparent touch screens;  
the development of Remote Operated  
Vehicles giving unique underwater views;  
or new low energy lighting systems for  
our aquarium displays. 
 DELIVERING  THE MAGIC
‘WELL PLACED TO MEET THE  
NEXT SET OF CHALLENGES’
Another record breaking year in project management has seen us 
working on 49 major projects in eleven countries during the year, 
with the projects in total representing a capital investment of  
over £230 million.
We delivered new accommodation offerings across five different 
sites to support our resort strategy; opened three new Madame 
Tussauds as part of our six Midway roll outs (including our first 
ever Madame Tussauds boat ride!); introduced The Dungeons to 
the USA (our first outside of Europe); developed fantastic projects 
with Intellectual Property partners, the BBC and Rovio at two  
of our parks; launched our third (!) winged coaster at another; 
brought LEGO Duplo and CHIMA Worlds and water parks  
into the LEGOLAND Parks; launched and relaunched SEA LIFE 
Centres and a LEGOLAND Discovery Centre; expanded a 
Madame Tussauds… and brought penguins to the heart of England!  
Innovative thinking across the whole of Merlin Magic Making 
remains our guiding philosophy. This, as well as delivering 
compelling propositions to entice our customers to come 
and visit, along with our aim to drive great value from 
everything we produce, means that we are well placed to 
meet the next set of challenges… so bring on the fun!  
What are  
we doing?
We have teamed up directly with the Lucasfilm team and put together 
the first ever Star Wars Madame Tussauds exhibition, ready for launch 
in the 2015 season. Two separate exhibitions are being produced, one 
in the Madame Tussands flagship attraction in London and one in our 
hugely successful Madame Tussauds in Berlin. Initially for a five year 
period, the success of the Star Wars intellectual property is set to  
go from strength to strength with the launch of a new series of  
films over the next few years.
Our creative teams have been working hard to produce a series 
of realistic sets which depict the epic Star Wars story. They will be 
brought to life with original music from the films, special sound effects, 
lighting, props and even smells, enabling our guests to feel like they are 
right in the middle of the action. The heroes of the sets, of course, will 
be the world famous Madame Tussauds figures, representing some of 
the most iconic characters ever to be produced.
What will the 
results be?
We will have produced a unique chronological story, through both the 
prequels and the original trilogy, which will allow guests to immerse 
themselves in the amazing story of Star Wars. Visitors will be able to 
stage a ’Lightsaber’ duel with Anakin Skywalker; feel like they are 
piloting the Millennium Falcon with Chewbacca; or recreate the iconic 
‘I am your father’ moment with Darth Vader. The scene is set for this 
to be one of the best Madame Tussauds exhibitions ever undertaken! 
How are  
we doing it?
CASE STUDY
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4
37 36
Main Contents TEAM MERLIN
TEAM MERLIN
WE DESCRIBE OUR COMPANY’S CULTURE AS ‘THE MERLIN WAY’. IT CAPTURES 
THE ESSENCE OF HOW OUR EMPLOYEES ARE ALIGNED WITH OUR ONE 
ULTIMATE GOAL OF DELIVERING MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES TO OUR 
GUESTS. OUR PEOPLE STRATEGY IS SUPPORTED BY THREE PILLARS: EMPLOYEE 
ENGAGEMENT; TALENT AND DEVELOPMENT; AND COMPENSATION AND 
BENEFITS. OUR STRATEGY DRIVES US TOWARDS OUR AMBITIONS: TO BE 
THE BEST COMPANY TO WORK FOR IN OUR INDUSTRY; TO NURTURE OUR 
GLOBAL LEADERS; AND TO REWARD PERFORMANCE. WE MEASURE OUR 
SUCCESS THROUGH THE OUTSTANDING EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SCORES 
WE CONTINUE TO RECORD IN OUR ANNUAL EMPLOYEE SURVEY . 
Employee­engagement
We believe that our people lie at the heart of all we do and 
are committed to being the best company to work for in our 
industry. Whether permanent or temporary, full or part time, 
based in Germany or Singapore (or anywhere else in the world), 
we want to attract people from all walks of life and make  
sure they have a truly great experience working for us.  
Our employment policies, amongst many other things, are 
testament to this and include Equal Opportunities, Global 
Whistleblowing and Global Study Support.
‘The Wizard Wants to Know’
Our annual online employee survey, 
‘The Wizard Wants to Know’,  
went out in the summer to all  
our employees across the globe.  
 This survey is our chance to find 
out how engaged our people are 
and to hear what it’s like to work 
for this magical Company of  
ours. We are excited that 97% 
completed the survey and thrilled 
that 95% said that they enjoy 
working here. We think these  
are truly awesome scores!
Our overall staff engagement score is one of Merlin’s key 
performance indicators and is derived from the responses to  
a number of key questions within the survey. We are delighted 
that our staff engagement score was exceptionally high once 
again. It was way above our 80% target, something that we  
are all very proud of. The largest driver of this, we believe, is  
‘The Merlin Way’, our spell of values that wins the hearts  
and minds of our employees to deliver the most magical,  
memorable experiences to our guests.   
Diversity
We believe that our people are the single biggest reason behind 
the Company’s success, so we always strive to make life at Merlin 
better for all of them, with diversity being an important part of 
this. We have designed our strategy to give us the best people  
for all roles, regardless of gender, race, disability, sexual orientation 
or any other factor. Our aim is to ensure that everyone has equal 
access to all opportunities wherever possible. Further details  
of our disability agenda are outlined in our Corporate Social 
Responsibility section on page 58. In terms of gender diversity, 
we have launched the Women at Merlin (W@M) programme 
to help us give women the chances and support they need 
to achieve their ambitions and develop into senior roles.
Throughout 2014 W@M activities included a number of  
different events, workshops and webinars. Our diversity  
strategy was recognised when we won the ‘Women 1st’  
Large Business Award this year. That was incredibly gratifying  
and a strong indication that we are doing the right things.
Women now work at every level within Merlin including the 
Board and the Executive Committee. 107 or around 35% of all 
our senior leaders are women as are 4,065 or approximately 
50% of our permanent colleagues globally.
Other engagement initiatives
We encourage all of our attractions to use the Merlin intranet  
to publish newsfeeds of interesting information and developments 
at their sites, as well as providing further regular communications 
through the more traditional routes of newsletters, team briefs 
and noticeboards.  
In addition, all our employees can be actively involved themselves 
through a number of popular initiatives. These include:
• STAR - our online global recognition scheme that saw more  
 than 90,000 ’Stars’ sent out worldwide in 2014, in recognition  
 of an outstanding contribution or as a simple ‘Thank Y ou’ for a  
 job well done.  
• Spark an idea - an online portal for colleagues to share their  
 ideas, big or small. We have received hundreds of ideas since  
 we launched this scheme in 2012 and lots have already been  
 put into practice in our attractions. We never cease to be  
 amazed by all the fabulous ideas that our people come 
 up with.
• The Merlin Way film competition - run every year to give our  
 people everywhere the chance to make a two minute video  
 clip demonstrating just how they make The Merlin Way come  
 to life. They can be so good that we show these inspirational  
 films when we are looking to attract new recruits to come  
 and join us at Team Merlin.  
Hosts at LEGOLAND Windsor making it fun! <  The Merlin Way: our spell of values that wins the hearts and minds  
    of  our employees to deliver memorable experiences to our guests.
39
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents TEAM MERLIN TEAM MERLIN
T alent ­ and­ development
It is essential to Merlin’s future growth that we recruit and 
develop the ‘Team Merlin’ of the future. We are an entertainment 
company, dedicated to providing memorable experiences to our 
guests, so we seek out the people who have a love of fun and 
a natural ability to inject some magic into the lives of our guests 
when they come and visit one of our attractions. Once recruited, 
we then nurture their talents and support their development 
throughout their careers with us.
Recruitment
We use technology more and 
more in our hiring strategy to 
improve the application process, 
with social media a big part of 
this approach. We work on 
building relationships in developing  
markets to improve our campaigns  
there and make us as appealing  
as possible to local candidates. 
Our recruiters need to be experts 
in choosing Merlin people with 
the right skills and attitudes, so 
we have online tools to help them 
share best practice, as well as 
videos with opinions and ideas 
from our senior leaders.
XLR8 
We have a well-established fast track graduate programme in 
place for marketing and general management positions, which  
we call XLR8. Roles on the programme are always tailored to the 
individuals who are supported through their career every step of 
the way. The success of this can be seen through our 2012 intake, 
all of whom have progressed to permanent roles in 2014. We 
have also promoted lots of our previous XLR8 alumni into senior 
positions across the Group during the past year. The 2014 intake 
included fun-loving, talented recruits from across the UK, North 
America, Germany, China and Australia.
Leadership development programmes
We have many superb leadership development programmes in 
place, including our flagship ‘Xcalibre’ course, run with Kingston 
University in the UK and aimed at leaders who have bags of 
potential. We also have the Merlin leadership programme, which 
we run across the globe. In addition, during the course of last 
year we introduced some ‘Bootcamps’, which are development 
centres specifically for our general management, finance and  
HR team members. These courses include a combination  
of personal development and 
competency assessment to help  
us identify and nurture talent. 
Merlin employee exchange programme
The Merlin Employee Exchange Programme helps our people  
via a ‘job swap’ in another attraction (that can be anywhere in  
the world) to help them develop new skills, experiences, and 
relationships, positioning them for their next step in their 
professional journey.
And finally, at any time our teams can access Merlin’s School
of Magic, our online training resource run in conjunction with  
the renowned Ashridge Business School. 
Compensation ­ and ­ benefits
When you rely on your people as much as we do, we believe it  
is essential to provide compensation and benefit programmes 
which are competitive and which support our business  
and culture.
Share plans
This year we made good progress towards our goal of helping  
as many of our colleagues as possible to take an equity stake in 
Merlin. We call this ‘owning a piece of the magic’, and we believe 
it is an important way of making Team Merlin even more 
committed to our success.
Following our Listing in November 2013, we launched our  
first Employee Sharesave plan in January 2014 to give all our 
permanent colleagues the chance to save money over a three 
year period to buy Merlin shares. This was communicated 
internally with a comprehensive, multi-media campaign that 
included videos from our CEO, webinars, face to face briefings, 
intranet updates, posters and ‘table-top teasers’. Overall, almost 
30% of permanent staff took up the opportunity to start saving 
to buy shares. In the UK, the take-up rate was 40%, with some 
teams having more than 80% of their people taking part.  
We have also continued to roll out the other long term incentive 
plans that we launched last year, making grants to more than 50 
colleagues who joined Merlin or were promoted to senior 
management grades during the year. 
Other benefits initiatives
We run a number of programmes to support our teams  
and continue to harmonise our local benefit structures on  
a territory by territory basis.
With our rapid growth, 2014 has seen a big step up in the 
number of colleagues moving to new countries to support  
our business growth. Our international mobility programme is 
therefore proving invaluable in helping us move our talent  
safely, securely and comfortably.  
We offer an external, confidential Employee Assistance 
Programme to support our staff when they need it. We also  
offer reduced-cost gym memberships at a number of sites  
and have various wellness initiatives around the Group.  
Colleagues at Alton Towers bringing some fun to CBeebies Land
Actors from the Blackpool Tower Dungeon, ready for Scary Fun!
41 40
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 201 4 Main Contents
