 The Directors believe that effective 
corporate governance, appropriate to  
the Group considering its size and stage 
of development, will assist in the delivery 
of corporate strategy, the generation of 
shareholder value and the safeguarding 
of shareholders’ long-term interests.  
We do not comply with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code September 2014 
(“the Code”). However, the Directors are 
committed, wherever it is reasonably 
practicable, to ensure that the Group 
is managed in accordance with the 
principles set out in the Code.
Composition of the Board
The Board comprises the non-executive 
Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors 
and two Executive Directors. Biographical 
details of all members of the Board are 
set out on pages 28–30.
Since the flotation of the Company in 
2011, no equity-based incentives have 
been granted to Non-Executive Directors 
and there are no such plans for any such 
grants in the future. At the end of the  
year, the Chairman and two of the four 
Non-Executive Directors had shares and 
share options in Ubisense Group Plc.
The holding of shares and share  
options by Non-Executive Directors 
could, amongst other things, be relevant 
in determining whether a Non-Executive 
Director is independent. Therefore,  
after detailed consideration, the Board  
has determined that Paul Taylor and  
Ian Kershaw are the only independent 
Non-Executive Directors within the 
meaning of the Code.
The roles of Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer are vested in separate 
individuals, each with clear allocation 
of accountability and responsibility. The 
Chairman has prime responsibility for 
running the Board and the Chief Executive 
Officer has executive responsibilities 
for the Group’s strategic development, 
operations and results. The structure 
of the Board and the integrity of each 
Director ensures that there is no one 
individual or group dominating the 
decision-making process.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
The role of the Board
The Board holds full meetings at least 10 
times per year, with attendance required in 
person whenever possible. The principal 
matters that it considers are as follows:
  Reviewing operating and financial 
performance
  Ensuring that appropriate management 
development and succession plans are 
in place
  Determining corporate strategy, 
including consideration and approval of 
the Company’s annual strategy review
  Establishing dividend policy
  Approving and accepting all new 
committed funding facilities
  Approving and accepting major 
changes in the capital structure  
of the Company
  Reviewing and approving formal 
treasury policies relating to funding, 
liquidity, transactional foreign exchange 
and interest rate risk management
  Reviewing the health and safety  
and environmental performance  
of the Company
  Approving corporate acquisitions, 
mergers, divestments, joint ventures 
and major capital expenditure
  Receiving, reviewing and approving 
recommendations by the designated 
committee on matters related to audit, 
nominations and remuneration.
The Board is supplied with information 
in a timely manner and in a form and 
of a quality appropriate to enable it to 
discharge its duties. The Board has a policy 
to set out which matters are reserved for 
the decision of the Board and those to 
which the Executive Directors need not 
refer for approval. This policy also requires 
that all recommendations and decisions 
by a Board Committee are approved or 
ratified by the Board.
Board Committees
The Board has established three 
Committees: the Audit Committee, 
the Nomination Committee and the 
Remuneration Committee. 
T otal meetings attended*
Gordon Campbell 1 (2)
Richard Green 14 (14)
Peter Harverson 12 (14)
Andrew Hopper 14 (14)
Ian Kershaw 5 (6)
J Keith Lomas 7 (8)
Richard Newell 5 (8)
Robert Parker 11 (12)
Robert Sansom 12 (14)
Paul Taylor 14 (14)
Summary of Board meeting attendance in 2014
The Board is expected to meet regularly on a formal basis at least 10 times a year.  
14 Board meetings were held in 2014. Attendance at the meetings was as follows:
Summary of Committee membership
The Committee membership as at 31 December 2014, and at 16 March 2015, is as follows;
Audit 
Committee
Nomination 
Committee
Remuneration 
Committee
Richard Green – Observer –
Peter Harverson – Yes Chair
Andrew Hopper Observer Yes Observer
Ian Kershaw Yes – –
Robert Parker Observer – Observer
Robert Sansom – Chair Yes
Paul Taylor Chair Observer Yes
Summary of Committee meeting attendance
Audit 
Committee*
Nomination 
Committee*
Remuneration 
Committee*
Gordon Campbell – – –
Richard Green – 1 (1) 1 (3)
Peter Harverson – 1 (1) 3 (3)
Andrew Hopper 1 (3) 1 (1) 2 (3)
Ian Kershaw 3 (3) – –
J Keith Lomas 1 (1) 1 (1) 1 (1)
Richard Newell – 1 (1) –
Robert Parker 3 (3) – 2 (3)
Robert Sansom 3 (3) 1 (1) 3 (3)
Paul Taylor – 1 (1) 3 (3)
* Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
The role of each Committee is described in more detail overleaf.
Although not required to do 
so by the AIM Listing Rules, 
the Directors have chosen to 
provide selected corporate 
governance disclosures 
with this report, which they 
consider to be valuable to  
the reader.
Ubisense Annual Report Ubisense Annual Report 35 34 Audit Committee
The Audit Committee has responsibility 
for the following matters:
Financial reporting 
   Review of all financial reports released 
to the market and shareholders.
   Review of significant reporting issues 
and key judgements.
   Review of accounting policies selected 
and their application.
External audit 
  R ecommending appointment,  
re-appointment or removal of the 
external auditors.
  Overseeing the Group’s relationship 
with the external auditors, including 
assessing their independence.
  Agreeing the annual audit plan and 
reviewing the finding and effectiveness 
of the audit.
Whistleblowing 
  Review of the Group’s whistleblowing 
policies and procedures.
As part of its procedures, the Committee 
discusses the interim and annual financial 
statements with the external auditors. 
When appropriate, non-Committee 
members are invited to attend. During the 
period under review, the Committee has 
met three times on a formal basis excluding 
meetings of the Chairman with external 
advisors. The Committee is expected  
to meet formally four times a year.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee has 
responsibility for the following matters:
  Reviewing the size and composition of 
the Board to ensure that an appropriate 
mix of skills, knowledge and experience 
is achieved
  Succession planning for the Board and 
other key management roles
  Identifying and recommending to the 
Board candidates to fill Board vacancies
  Ensuring Non-Executive Directors 
are able to make the necessary time 
commitments to fulfil their role
Company law requires the Directors 
to prepare financial statements for 
each financial year. Under that law the 
Directors are required to prepare the 
consolidated financial statements in 
accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted 
by the European Union and have elected 
to prepare the parent company financial 
statements in accordance with United 
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting 
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting 
Standards and applicable laws). Under 
company law the Directors must not 
approve the financial statements unless 
they give a true and fair view of the state 
of affairs and profit or loss of the Company 
and Group for that period. In preparing 
these financial statements, the Directors 
are required to:
  Select suitable accounting policies  
and then apply them consistently
  Make judgements and estimates  
that are reasonable and prudent
  State whether applicable IFRSs have 
been followed, subject to any material 
departures disclosed and explained in 
the consolidated financial statements
  State whether applicable UK Accounting 
Standards have been followed, subject 
to any material departures disclosed 
and explained in the Company  
financial statements
  Prepare the financial statements on 
the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the 
Company will continue in business.
  Ensuring Non-Executive Directors 
receive letters of appointment, detailing 
their responsibilities
  Making recommendations to the Board 
about the appointment, removal or 
continuation in office of any Director.
During the period under review, the 
Committee has met once on a formal 
basis. The Committee is expected to  
meet formally twice a year.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has 
responsibility for the following matters:
  Agreeing the framework for the Group’s 
remuneration policy for Directors and 
key management personnel, including 
determining individual remuneration 
policies for Executive Directors
  Approving the design and targets for 
short and long-term incentive plans
  Determining the policy and scope  
of pension arrangements
  Ensuring contractual terms and 
payments made on termination are fair  
to both the individual and the Group
  Agreeing the policy for authorising 
expense claims by the Chair and  
Chief Executive.
The Group has a formal and transparent 
procedure for developing policy on 
Directors’ remuneration. No Director is 
involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Committee aims to set levels of 
remuneration for Executive Directors 
that are sufficient to attract, retain and 
motivate Directors of the quality required, 
without paying more than necessary, 
and that are appropriate for the size 
and complexity of the Group. It aims 
to see that a significant proportion of 
each Executive Director’s remuneration 
package is performance related.
During the period under review,  
the Committee has met three times  
on a formal basis. The Committee is 
expected to meet formally twice a year.
Internal control
The Board of Directors has overall 
responsibility for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing 
its effectiveness. The risk-managing 
process and systems of internal control 
are designed to manage rather than 
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve 
the Company’s objectives. It should be 
recognised that such systems can only 
provide reasonable but not absolute 
assurance against material misstatement 
or loss. The Directors acknowledge their 
responsibilities for the Group’s system 
of internal control and for reviewing its 
effectiveness. The principal features of the 
system of internal financial controls are:
  Budgetary control over all operations, 
measuring performance against  
pre-determined targets on at least  
a monthly basis
  Regular forecasting and reviews 
covering trading performance,  
assets, liabilities, cash flows and  
bank covenants
  Delegated limits of authority covering 
key financial commitments including 
capital expenditure and recruitment
  Identification and management of key 
business risks.
The Board continually reviews the 
effectiveness of other internal controls, 
including financial, operational, compliance 
controls and risk management.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES 
STATEMENT
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ 
report, the Strategic report and the financial statements  
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for 
keeping adequate accounting records 
that are sufficient to show and explain 
the Company’s transactions and disclose 
with reasonable accuracy at any time the 
financial position of the Company, and 
enable them to ensure that the financial 
statements comply with the Companies 
Act 2006. They are also responsible for 
safeguarding the assets of the Company 
and hence for taking reasonable steps  
for the prevention and detection of fraud 
and other irregularities.
Disclosure of information to auditor
Each of the persons who are Directors  
at the time when this Directors’ report  
is approved has confirmed that:
  So far as that Director is aware, there  
is no relevant audit information of which 
the Company’s auditors are unaware
  The Director has taken all the steps  
that ought to have been taken as a 
Director in order to be aware of any 
relevant audit information and to 
establish that the Company’s auditors 
are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the 
maintenance and integrity of the corporate 
and financial information included on 
the Company’s website. Legislation 
in the United Kingdom governing the 
preparation and dissemination of financial 
statements may differ from legislation  
in other jurisdictions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
REPORT 
CONTINUED
Ubisense Annual Report Ubisense Annual Report 37 36
