 Silence Therapeutics plc Annual report and financial statements 2014 02
www.silence-therapeutics.com
We are investing in the development of our staff, 
investing in supporting and prosecuting our IP portfolio 
and investing in our product research and development.
Overview
We have made great strides in 
demonstrating the strength of our IP 
and our R&D capability during the year. 
We now have the prospect of applying 
our proprietary delivery systems to 
both short interfering RNA (siRNA) for 
gene knock down and messenger RNA 
(mRNA) for gene product enhancement. 
We recently also reported very 
encouraging early data from the trial 
of Atu027 in patients with late stage 
pancreatic cancer. 
This progress and the possibilities 
it opens up have enabled us to raise 
sufficient capital from high quality 
investors to support the long term 
development of our portfolio. 
These exciting developments lay the 
foundations for Silence to be a major 
player in the field of genetic medicine. 
The key focus now is to continue to build 
quality into our Company and we have 
the resources to do this for the medium 
and long term. We are investing in the 
development of our staff, investing 
in supporting and prosecuting our IP 
portfolio and investing in our product 
research and development. 
This will ensure the continuing success 
of the Company and the translation of 
that into shareholder value. I look forward 
to being a part of this enterprise as we 
make this transition from a technology 
platform company to a therapeutic 
focused company.
In January 2015, Simon Sturge stepped 
down as Chairman due to the increasing 
demands on his time from his role with 
Merck Serono in Switzerland. I am 
pleased he has been able to remain on 
the Board as Non‑Executive Director and 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee; 
we have essentially swapped roles. 
I am also pleased to welcome Dr Lars 
Karlsson to the Board as Executive 
Director and Head of Research and 
Development who joined us in January 
and brings significant relevant industry 
experience from his career with Johnson 
& Johnson and more recently with 
Regulus Therapeutics and Novo Nordisk. 
As the new Chairman I am pleased to 
have been able to spend more time with 
the CEO and his team to assist with the 
next phase in the continuing progress 
of the Company’s management and 
product development.
Dr Alastair Riddell 
Chairman
27 April 2015
“We have made 
great strides in 
demonstrating the 
strength of our IP and 
our R&D capability 
during the year.”
Strategic report
Chairman’s statement
