 SMART FACTORY 
OVERCOMING 
MANUFACTURING 
BUSINESS CHALLENGES
The global automotive manufacturing industry  
is growing rapidly, and it is evolving. It is estimated 
that by 2019 manufacturers will be producing  
a staggering 100 million light vehicles per year.  
But selective pressures are forcing companies  
to adapt their processes, or risk losing out.
Ubisense Smart Factory  
is a production-proven 
solution designed specifically 
to help manufacturers  
better exploit their vehicle 
assembly processes, and 
meet the demands of their 
volatile marketplace.
Managing complexity and  
product variation 
There is now an unfathomable level 
of complexity and product variation 
confronting vehicle manufacturers,  
and it is increasing. This presents an 
enormous array of challenges: controlling 
worker mistakes; ensuring that assets 
and tools are in the right place at the 
right time; interpreting vast quantities 
of enterprise information… the list goes 
on. Smart Factory provides the adaptive 
control and automation required to cope 
with multiple, complex process variations 
on the same assembly line.
Cost and waste reduction
Just meeting the most essential needs 
for product development increases 
overheads by around 4% each year,  
yet vehicle companies are unable to 
offset this expense onto customers.  
With Smart Factory manufacturers can 
drive measurable cost reduction and  
lean, optimised procedures throughout 
their assembly process.
Coping with accelerated innovation
The percentage of each vehicle’s sale 
value that comes from its component 
parts is on the rise, and this is driving 
a fundamental shift in the market 
environment. Innovation that occurs 
on a supplier level is immediately and 
simultaneously available to all OEMs. 
No one can afford to fall behind, but the 
increased up-take of new parts means 
that burdensome assembly line re-fits 
are required more and more frequently. 
Smart Factory gives manufacturers an 
unprecedented ability to refine and 
improve their processes, by delivering 
real-time knowledge and data-driven 
insights into their operations.
How it works
Smart Factory gathers location data, and data from  
existing plant systems and devices. The system combines  
this information, correlating the real-time process interactions 
with operational details, to deliver a virtual interpretation  
of exactly what’s going on in the factory.
By leveraging this knowledge, Smart Factory empowers 
automation and drives widespread improvements to users’ 
manufacturing processes.
What manufacturers get
  Measurable cost reduction, with lean, optimised  
procedures throughout the assembly process
  Guaranteed productivity gains, as errors and wasted  
time are reduced or eliminated 
   Reduced cost of quality, by maximising right-first-time  
and reducing the cost of rework 
   The ability to manage product customisation,  
through error-proofing and guiding increasingly  
variable manual processes.
OPERATIONS
SMART
VIRTUAL
PROCESS
CENTER
DEVICE
EXPLORER
STATION
IMPROVEMENT
UBISENSE
RTLS
OTHER
SENSORS
ENTERPRISE
SYSTEMS
INTELLIGENCE 
ENGINE
The Smart Factory model
Ubisense Annual Report Ubisense Annual Report 11 10 MYWORLD  
OVERCOMING 
NETWORKS BUSINESS 
CHALLENGES
Organisations that excel in operations and maintenance 
empower their people with the knowledge resources 
they need to do their jobs. They strive to make data 
interpretation simple and sharing fast – from the field,  
to the office, and back again. When that happens,  
the right decisions are made faster, costs reduce  
and customer experience improves. Ubisense 
myWorld is a means to achieve exactly that. 
Ubisense myWorld integrates 
data from multiple sources 
and uses a Google Maps style 
interface to deliver actionable 
information to field and office 
users. myWorld enables 
network organisations to 
meet the demands of internal 
and external stakeholders 
without burdening their  
IT infrastructure.
Unlocking critical information
Utility and Telecoms companies store 
their critical location and enterprise 
data inside one or more disconnected 
business systems, which are typically only 
accessible by a small group of trained 
personnel. This means that staff in key 
operational roles have very limited access 
to the knowledge they need to make 
the best decisions day to day. myWorld 
enables every person in the enterprise 
to leverage the power of maps, spatial 
data and other task-relevant information, 
so that their jobs can be completed with 
optimal efficiency.
Transitioning to the future 
Networks enterprises are not technology 
enabled. Their operations are based 
around paper processes, which are 
disconnected, laborious and error prone. 
However, the steps required to level-up 
network enterprises are perceived to 
be too costly, disruptive and risk laden 
for them to progress. myWorld delivers 
flexible technology and connectivity 
without burdening a company’s IT 
infrastructure. Its innovative browser-
based approach greatly simplifies 
myWorld deployment and administration, 
removing barriers to technology adoption.
Coping with external pressures 
It is estimated that within the next five 
years electric utilities will lose up to 
30% of their revenue due to changes 
in the industry, and there are similar 
environmental pressures affecting the 
T elecom and Gas sectors. The only way to 
stay profitable and thrive in this arena is to 
reduce costs and wasted time. myWorld is 
specifically developed to help companies 
to correlate issues, identify performance 
trends, and prioritise activities, so that they 
can drive enterprise-wide efficiencies.
How it works 
Ubisense myWorld is a web and  
mobile platform that integrates data  
from multiple sources – companies’ 
existing GIS products, other enterprise 
systems and external information –  
into one, single view. It supports anyone  
in an organisation with access to a map-
based overview of detailed network  
data, whether they’re online or offline.
What utilities get
  Make better use of data, and leverage 
external information
    Share actionable knowledge between 
office and field workers
  Optimise inspections, servicing and 
maintenance activities
 Improve emergency response times
    Uphold compliance and integrity
    Boost customer service performance 
and increase customer retention.
myWorld: Simple, smart and fast applications that 
improve operations and maintenance efficiency  
for Utilities and T elecoms enterprises.
Ubisense Annual Report Ubisense Annual Report 13 12
