 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 04
Chairman’s overview
Creating the technology that shapes 
the connected world
Stuart Chambers
Chairman
ARM is the world’s leading semiconductor IP company. We develop 
and license technology that is at the heart of many of the digital 
electronics devices sold each year , from smartphones and tablets to 
sensors and servers. ARM’s microprocessor technology is helping to 
shape the world we live in as smart chips connect each of us to our 
friends, to our communities, to our work, and to our online lives. 
We have embraced the rapid pace of change in our digital world 
by developing technology that brings new possibilities to a globally 
connected population.
ARM is a fast-growing business in a dynamic 
and competitive market. In 2014 our customers 
reported that they had shipped 12 billion 
ARM-based chips, an increase of 16% on 2013. 
Just under half of those chips were shipped 
into mobile devices, including smartphones 
and tablets, where ARM has a high market 
share. An increasing number of chips were 
shipped into new markets, including enterprise 
networking infrastructure and embedded 
intelligent devices such as microcontrollers 
and chips for the Internet of Things.
There have been some challenges in 
2014. In the ﬁrst half of the year, inventory 
management in the consumer electronics 
supply chain led to a slowdown in the 
sale of chips, especially into smartphones. 
As the majority of ARM’s royalty revenues 
are generated from the sales of chips into 
consumer electronics, we saw slower royalty 
revenue growth in 2014 than in prior years. 
In this context, ARM has performed well. 
Group dollar revenues increased 16% and 
normalised diluted earnings per share by 17% 
(IFRS: 28%*). The Board has recommended 
an increase in the full year dividend for 2014 
of 23% and, during the year, approved the 
buyback of 7.9 million shares, demonstrating 
the Board’s conﬁdence in ARM’s long-term 
growth opportunities.
23% 
Full year dividend growth
28% 
IFRS diluted EPS growth*
17% 
Normalised diluted EPS growth
16% 
Dollar revenue growth
*Growth based on 2013 EPS before exceptional items. Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 05
The ARM team
The knowledge and creativity of our people 
and the ability to deliver customer satisfaction 
in an increasingly demanding and competitive 
environment are key determinants of 
our success. We hired net 461 additional 
employees, the majority of whom are 
engineers working in processor design and 
software development. These new hires were 
a mix of graduates and experienced talent from 
all over the world. 
Board changes 
In January 2014, ARM announced that Sir John 
Buchanan was stepping down from the ARM 
Board due to a medical condition. The Board, 
management and employees of ARM wish 
John well, and thank him for his contribution to 
the business. As for me, it is a privilege and a 
pleasure to succeed him as Chairman. ARM is 
an ambitious company with a great opportunity 
ahead of it and I am delighted to be part of 
the team.
In May 2014, ARM announced that Tim Score, 
ARM’s Chief Financial Officer, had decided to 
retire in May 2015. In his time as CFO Tim has 
been a key part of the team transforming ARM 
over the last 13 years. Tim joined ARM in 2002, 
and since the end of that year the company 
has grown normalised earnings per share at a 
CAGR of about 20%. On behalf of the Board, 
the management, and the wider ARM team, 
we thank Tim for his passion and service 
throughout this period of transformation.
Chris Kennedy has been appointed to succeed 
Tim Score as CFO, and will join the Board 
of ARM Holdings plc as a director once he 
has completed his commitments with his 
current employer.
Dr John Liu joined the Board on 1 December 
2014 as an independent non-executive 
director. John, a Chinese national, has many 
years of experience managing technology 
companies in Asia, particularly Greater China 
including Qihoo 360 Technology Co. Ltd and 
Google Inc.
Two non-executive directors left the Board 
in 2014; Philip Rowley stepped down from 
the Board in May 2014 after serving his nine-
year term, and Eric Meurice stepped down 
in March 2014 in order to avoid a potential 
conﬂict of interest arising. We thank Philip for 
his hard work and diligence as Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee, and thank both 
Philip and Eric for their valuable contributions 
to Board discussions and decisions.
The above changes are consistent with our 
aim of having a Board of the right size and 
composition, and with the right balance 
of skills and expertise. Together we have 
continued to reﬁne ARM’s strategy for growth; 
to develop and deploy energy-efficient 
technology; to enable innovation through a 
broad ecosystem of partners, building on our 
shared success; and to create superior returns 
for our shareholders by investing in long-term 
growth. These investments are focused on 
our opportunities in the continuing growth 
of mobile devices, as well as networking 
infrastructure and the Internet of Things.
An expanding opportunity 
Finally, I would like to thank all of ARM’s 
employees for their effort and contribution in 
2014. I look forward to seeing how this exciting 
company, the technology it creates, and the 
broad ecosystem of semiconductor companies 
and supporting Partners, will shape the future 
for our increasingly connected world.
We have ensured that we have 
a Board of the right size and 
composition, and that the team 
has the right balance of skills 
and expertise.
More about people and culture on page 40
Read more in “Governance”, page 46 06 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 A new angle
3D Robotics develops innovative, ﬂexible and reliable 
personal drones and UAV technology for everyday 
exploration and business applications. The Pixhawk 
autopilot system is a complete solution for multi-
platform autonomous vehicles, based on the open-
source Pixhawk autopilot. It is powered by an 
STMicroelectronics STM32F427 MCU, featuring a 
ARM Cortex
®
-M4 microcontroller.
Find out more: 
3D Robotics drones were used in the ﬁlming  
of the adventure movie “Sugar Mountain”,  
released in November 2014. 
http:/ /goo.gl/2ldbYW
07 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
In this section:
CEO’s statement 08
rtex
®
-M4 microcontroller.
more:
tics drones were used in the ﬁlming 
venture movie “Sugar Mountain”, 
