 CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
Notably, our production performance in all our key 
businesses has been ahead of plan. During October 2014, 
we were able to ship our first ore from Minas-Rio earlier  
than expected and within the revised capital budget of  
$8.8 billion. This is testimony to the unrelenting endeavours 
of the team in Brazil. However, the dramatic drop in the iron  
ore pricing environment, which has been particularly acute  
in the near term and has also dragged down long term  
price expectations, has resulted in a $3.5 billion non-cash 
(post-tax) write down in the asset value of Minas-Rio.
Notwithstanding the tough pricing environment, there have 
been several encouraging developments. Our platinum 
operations in South Africa are recovering strongly from the 
prolonged strike in the first half of 2014, and we are making 
headway in restructuring the business, including the 
divestment of operations we no longer consider to be  
‘core’. The operational turnaround at our two major copper 
interests in Chile, Los Bronces and Collahuasi, is well under 
way despite the challenges, at Los Bronces, posed by 
declining grades and ore hardness. At Sishen, our flagship 
iron ore asset in South Africa, we are on track to restore 
production to a 38 million tonnes per annum level in 2016.  
In Australia, where deteriorating prices for metallurgical coal 
are putting great pressure on our coal operations, we have 
managed to dramatically improve productivity, bringing 
down unit costs substantially at our key longwall operations.
SAFETY
I never fail to be impressed by the level of commitment 
shown throughout our Group – from Board level to the 
working face – in safety matters. That is why it is always sad 
and disappointing to report on loss of life in our business.  
In 2014, despite a steep reduction in fatal incidents (after 
taking the platinum strike into account), and ongoing 
declining trends in injuries, six people lost their lives – it is 
incumbent on us all to do whatever it takes to get this figure 
down to zero.
Under Tony O’Neill, our technical director, this is being given 
renewed direction, particularly with the emphasis being 
placed via our Operating Model on planned work, which is 
improving performance not only in safety, but in practically 
all areas of the business. 
Allied to this, we are focusing on the deployment of  
new technologies, and particularly those concerning 
mechanisation and automation, in order to make mining less 
physically arduous and to eliminate, as far as possible, the 
potentially hazardous interface between employees and 
machinery and the rock face. This has led to tightening 
policy around transportation (along with falls of ground,  
the main cause of injuries in our Group), including stricter 
regulation around transport hire and the advance 
monitoring of road conditions.
These macro-economic conditions and the over-supply  
of certain mined commodities drove severe price decreases. 
Such developments are posing considerable challenges  
for the global mining industry. This is particularly the case  
in bulk commodities such as iron ore, where industry 
over-expansion created price levels that are more depressed 
than they might have been. Given these developments, 
Anglo American is taking further action to cushion the 
impact of downward price pressures.
ANGLO AMERICAN’S ROAD TO RECOVERY
Results
These challenging conditions are demonstrating the 
resilience of Anglo American’s strategy, based as it is on a 
diversified range of products attuned to different stages of 
the cycle. We delivered an underlying EBIT of $4.9 billion  
in 2014 (2013: $6.6 billion). We have also recommended  
a dividend of 53 cents per share at the final stage, giving  
a maintained total dividend for the year of 85 cents  
per share, and we expect the dividend to be funded  
from free cash flow from 2016 onwards. The Board’s 
commitment to providing a base dividend, which will be 
maintained or increased through the cycle, is unchanged.
Performance
Under the leadership of Mark Cutifani, considerable 
progress is being made, on this, the first year of our 
three-year journey towards realising the potential set  
out in our Driving Value strategic imperative. 
In 2014, we passed a number of important milestones on  
the road to our ambition. This included making significant 
strides in our operational performance to meet our 2016 
target of 15% ROCE at June 2013 prices and exchange 
rates. At that time we plan to deliver an additional $4 billion  
of incremental EBIT (compared to 2012), and are redoubling 
our efforts to create further improvements, including scaling 
down our capital expenditure for 2015 and 2016. 
2014 saw a notable divergence in performance 
between the world’s major economies. In China, 
growth dipped slightly below the government’s 
7½% target. Other emerging economies, the 
eurozone and Japan are in a fragile state, though 
the US strengthened significantly during the year .
Sir John Parker
02 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT DEVELOPING AND DEPLOYING NEW TECHNOLOGIES
In the past, Anglo American, deservedly, had a reputation  
for being a leader in mining technology, and the Board  
is giving its full backing to the executive and the Technical 
team as we endeavour to again lead the industry. Our 
intense focus on operational fundamentals – doing the basic 
things better – is already delivering substantial benefits. 
Today, however, no mining company can be working wholly 
within its own silo, and that is why Anglo American is working 
with a range of global institutions and universities in the 
Americas, Australia, South Africa and the UK to support  
us in our drive to be at the forefront of mining technology. 
We now want to move on to the next phase, with 
developments such as rock cutting lasers, alongside the 
deployment of digital engineering that can simulate mine 
and infrastructure conditions prior to the first shovel being 
put in the ground. In turn, the adoption of the latest 
construction techniques will greatly reduce the labour 
intensiveness and development risks of projects. 
RESETTING THE SOUTH AFRICAN RELATIONSHIP
At Anglo American, we attach great importance to our 
relationships with our host governments. None is more 
important than South Africa, where we have substantial iron 
ore, platinum, thermal coal and diamond interests. These 
include projects such as the $2 billion extension into an 
underground diamond mine at Venetia, already under way, 
the potential New Largo coal mine development and the 
possible expansion of Platinum’s open pit at Mogalakwena.
We are also changing the role and composition of the 
Anglo American South Africa Board in order to: reinforce 
our commitment to, and strengthen our engagement with 
the country; and to co-ordinate our significant social and 
community programmes there through an integrated 
project management approach.
BOARD DEVELOPMENTS
During my time as your chairman, I have constantly  
sought to recruit people with the relevant skills sets and 
breadth of experience to make a real difference to the 
Board’s deliberations. This has brought to the boardroom 
not only mining knowledge, but also experience in  
such areas as management of major projects, modern 
engineering, construction, finance, investment expertise, 
global business experience, corporate leadership and 
healthcare. As a result, I believe that the Board is now not 
only stronger and more dynamic, but that it has helped to 
foster a relationship with the executive based on mutual 
trust and respect. This has created a boardroom culture 
where robust challenge is respected. 
We are fortunate indeed to have Jack Thompson, who 
brings experience gained at all levels of the mining industry, 
as the chairman of the Sustainability Committee. I would 
also like to thank Byron Grote for the important perspectives 
he has brought to the Audit Committee in his first year as its 
chairman, and Sir Philip Hampton who diligently chairs our 
Remuneration Committee and serves as our senior 
independent director.
I am pleased to report that at year end, we had three  
female directors, constituting 25% of our Board, in line  
with the Davies Report 2015 target. We have also 
consciously built up our ethnic diversity.
OUR PEOPLE
I am encouraged by the extent to which we are being 
supported by our employees as we strive to make  
Anglo American a more efficient and effective organisation. 
Change is never comfortable for employees – but, as  
Mark Cutifani emphasised at our Investor Day in December, 
we have to adapt urgently given the pricing pressure on  
our business.
It is pleasing to note how far we have come already in 
restructuring the organisation, not least in the alignment  
of key people to key roles. Notably, in our all important 
Technical and Sustainability area, which is leading the  
way on our continuing journey to transform operational 
performance, we have seen the emergence of a revitalised 
organisation, with three-quarters of its top management 
recruited from across the global mining industry.
I wish to express my sincere gratitude to everyone who 
works for Anglo American for their hard work during a year 
of great change both internally and externally, and for their 
ongoing commitment to the Group in what undoubtedly will 
be a very challenging year ahead.
OUTLOOK
Against a background of a world economy that is likely to 
remain turbulent as the after-effects of the global financial 
crisis continue to linger, Anglo American is determined to  
be commercial in its approach, with a disciplined focus on 
margins and aligning output to anticipated market demand. 
Given this approach, our Group, with its differentiated range 
of early-, mid-, and late-stage products such as platinum  
and diamonds, is well placed to withstand both the vagaries 
of the cycle and to take advantage of the eventual upturn. 
Meanwhile, we are focused on delivering cost effective 
operational performance.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2014 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed 
and approved by the Board on 12 February 2015.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
03
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
