 CEO’s statement
Opportunities and challenges in  
an increasingly connected world
Fundamentally, we create technology that helps 
to make consumer and industrial electronics 
smarter, more capable and more energy-
efficient. We provide cost-effective processor 
technology that is deployed into the products 
that many consumers and businesses use every 
day. As these products sell in increasingly high 
volumes, they help drive ARM’s revenues. 
We can then invest in the development of 
new technology in order to generate superior 
returns for shareholders over the long term.
The ﬁrst ARM-based chips started to ship in 
1991, and by 2001, 1 billion ARM-based chips 
had been shipped. Today that cumulative 
number stands at over 60 billion, with 12 billion 
shipped in 2014 alone, up 16% on the previous 
year. Just under half of the chips sold by our 
customers last year went into mobile devices, 
and the remainder into a vast array of other 
end markets: digital TVs, cameras, white 
goods, WiFi routers, printers, disk drives and 
safety systems in cars.
08 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014
One of the most asked questions by investors is: ARM has seen many 
years of fantastic growth, so how is it going to continue to grow from 
here? I believe that we have many opportunities ahead of us as mobile 
products become more capable; as more people in the world gain 
access to smarter devices; and also as ARM technology is increasingly 
used in a widening range of digital products from sensors to servers.
Today ARM has 1,198 processor licences signed 
with our Partners. Of the 163 that were signed 
in 2014, about a quarter are intended for use 
in mobile devices, so the other three quarters 
are helping to expand our opportunity into 
markets beyond mobile.
The past year was not without challenges. 
Sales of ARM-based chips into mobile devices 
and consumer electronics were impacted by an 
inventory correction, so our royalty revenue 
growth was less than we would normally have 
expected. These industry-wide inventory 
corrections occur from time to time, and this 
is the ﬁfth we have seen in the past decade. 
They have been relatively short-term, and 
it is important not to be diverted from our 
strategy. Careful management of our costs 
ensured that we were able to maintain our 
R&D investment plans whilst increasing proﬁts 
and cash returns to shareholders.
Over the next few pages I review some of 
ARM’s main opportunities and challenges 
and how we are responding to them.
2001: 1 billion ARM-based 
chips shipped
1 bn
2014: Over 60 billion  
ARM-based chips shipped
60bn
1991: 1st ARM-based  
chips started to ship 09
We develop technology 
that makes consumer and 
industrial products smarter , 
more capable and more 
energy-efficient.
Simon Segars 
Chief Executive Officer
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 10
T oday there are about 2 billion 
people who own a smartphone, 
and each of those smartphones 
contains at least one ARM-
based chip. 
CEO’s statement continued...
Mobile computing
Over the past decade the market for mobile 
phones has been transformed. The key 
selling point behind a mobile phone used to 
be the hardware, the physical phone itself. 
Consumers wanted to replace phones that 
use a grey-scale screen with a colour screen. 
They wanted phones which were thinner or 
lighter or had a longer battery life. Then, as 
mobile phones became smartphones, software 
and apps became the key differentiator. 
We now see apps stores with millions of apps 
from gaming to photography to productivity; 
there is an app for almost everything. Now, it is 
the service that is enabled by the smartphone 
that is important to many: improving ﬁtness, 
providing directions, ordering a meal, or 
booking a taxi.
We are already at the start of the next wave 
of mobile technology. In advanced economies, 
the smartphone is connecting to other devices 
such as smart watches and thermostats. 
This will extend the information and services 
available to you via your smart mobile device. 
Also, we are seeing the growth of LTE/4G 
networks which are dramatically increasing 
the bandwidth of network connectivity, and 
reducing the lag in communications. We expect 
that faster and more responsive networks will 
change the way we use smartphones, giving 
these devices the potential to be an even more 
essential part of our lives.
Of the 7 billion mobile subscriptions globally, 
only 2 billion are for smartphones. This is a 
huge opportunity for the industry as more 
people are choosing to upgrade from a 
basic phone to a smartphone. Many of the 
people using basic phones are located in the 
developing world, where only one in three 
people has access to the internet.* However, 
with lower-cost smartphones becoming more 
widely available, more people are now able to 
connect for the ﬁrst time.
Low-cost smartphones are being used in 
new and innovative ways to help alleviate 
local problems: 
 In countries where many people don’t have 
bank accounts, mobile phones are used to 
transfer money from phone to phone
 Low-cost peripherals can be used as a 
medical diagnostic tool that can help with 
health care in remote regions
 Educational material can be distributed 
electronically, either in written or spoken 
form, lowering the barriers to knowledge. 
We have seen examples where farmers 
have learnt how to improve the productivity 
of their crops and livestock, and parents 
have learnt how to prevent and treat 
childhood disease
The ongoing revolution in the use of mobile 
technology, in developed and emerging 
economies, is bringing new opportunities 
for creativity and innovation, based on ARM 
technology, which will help to shape a more 
connected world. 
* ITU Report “The World in 2014”
Xiaomi Smartphone 
The Xiaomi Redmi 1S smartphone is promoting 4G 
uptake in China by bringing Chinese consumers cost-
effective phones that are comparable to the world’s 
top smartphones. It is based on MediaTek
®
 MT6582 
SoC integrating an ARM
 
Cortex
®
-A7 CPU and an 
ARM Mali™-400 GPU. It was manufactured using a 
leading-edge 28nm processor, and has ARM TrustZone
®
 
technology support for system-level security.  11 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
With smartphones as an open 
platform, apps developers don’t 
need scale to start a business; 
they don’t need factories, 
distribution channels or global 
logistics. With mobile computing, 
you just need an idea. And we 
are seeing a similar trend in the 
Internet of Things (Io T).
In the same way that connecting mobile 
phones to the internet transformed how we 
communicate with each other and interact 
with our data, connecting other devices to the 
internet could further improve our lives and 
experiences. And this is the concept of the 
Internet of Things.
An IoT device may consist of several sensors, 
a microcontroller to monitor the sensors 
and a wireless chip to connect the device to a 
network. Today, the computer power needed 
to create an IoT device can be found in chips 
that are small enough to ﬁt into the dimple of a 
golf ball, cost only a few tens of cents and have 
a battery life that can last for months.
This has created the opportunity for truly 
ubiquitous computing. Many of the things 
around us can be connected to the internet, 
enabling us to control and interact with our 
environment in entirely new ways. Some of the 
ﬁrst IoT applications include:
 Managing irrigation systems to increase crop 
yields using less water .
 Remote medical monitoring for patients 
whilst allowing them greater freedom.
 Smarter cities supporting larger populations 
with less congestion. 
 Factories creating a greater variety of 
end products at a lower cost than mass 
manufacturing could ever achieve.
We are also seeing embedded intelligence 
enabling products to be used in entirely new 
ways. For example, footballs and basketballs 
are having location and spin sensors 
embedded within them to help athletes of 
all abilities improve their game – to bend the 
football into the goal, or hit the basket at the 
optimum angle.
The Internet of Things
The Arduino™ Zero is a simple and powerful ARM-
based Arduino development board. This board is based 
on the low-power and high efficiency of a 32-bit ARM 
Cortex-M0+ microcontroller powered by Atmel
®
 
SAMD21 MCU. The Zero board expands the Arduino 
family by providing increased performance to fuel the 
creativity of the maker community and beyond.
A new IoT product or service can be 
inexpensive to design and quick to bring to 
market. ARM and its Partners have worked 
together to create a suite of development 
boards, which can be combined with 
sensors and motors, to detect, control 
and communicate with almost anything. 
Combined with free software tools, and 
easy connectivity to a smartphone and 
cloud computing services, a prospective 
inventor can build a prototype for less than 
$100. This is encouraging a new generation 
of entrepreneurship and innovation that will 
change the world for all of us.
Connecting millions of IoT devices can be 
challenging and so in 2014 we announced the 
ARM mbed
TM
 IoT Device Platform that can 
connect and manage global networks of smart 
connected embedded computers. We will 
continue to invest in new technologies that 
enable the deployment of ARM-based chips. ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 12
Enterprise infrastructure 
At the end of 2014, more than 15 companies had licensed 
ARMv8-A technology for enterprise infrastructure 
applications. This market is a key growth area for ARM.
With more smartphones and 
tablets allowing everyone to 
create and access more data, 
faster and with lower latency, and 
with more Io T devices connecting 
and communicating across the 
network, we are witnessing a 
huge increase in the demands on 
mobile and wired networking 
infrastructure, all the way to the 
servers within data centres all 
over the world.
To meet these increasing demands, network 
operators are building a new generation of 
infrastructure with much greater capacity. 
To avoid an associated increase in electricity 
usage, they are choosing to use more 
energy-efficient chips for their base stations, 
switches and routers. This is creating 
opportunities for chips built using ARM’s 
most advanced technology, which can help 
deliver high performance with less energy than 
previous approaches.
We have already licensed our technology to 
nearly all the major semiconductor companies 
who are making chips for this market, and 
some of these chips are just beginning to 
ship into 4G and small-cell base stations. 
With our Partners, we are now working to 
ensure that there is an optimised software 
ecosystem to enable carriers and network 
operators to deploy their services easily on 
ARM-based networking equipment. Over the 
next few years we expect our market share in 
networking infrastructure to grow as more of 
our Partners start to ship ARM-based chips 
for networking infrastructure.
The ARMv8-A architecture has been the 
key technology to enable our Partners to 
gain share in servers. Processors based on 
ARMv8-A are able to manage very large 
amounts of data, can scale to a great many 
cores in a single chip, and support key server 
functionality such as error correction and 
acceleration for encryption. We started work 
on ARMv8-A in 2007, signed our ﬁrst licence 
in 2009 and saw the ﬁrst commercial chips ship 
into server applications in 2014. During 2015 
we expect several more companies will start to 
ship ARM-based server chips, and we may also 
see the ﬁrst large-scale server systems built. 
Competition
Our competition continued to be active in 
2014. There were new processors and chips 
announced by competitors, and they had 
new design wins and started new strategic 
initiatives. Some competitors are trying to win 
share in smartphones and tablets, and also to 
defend their share in markets where ARM’s 
technology is challenging them, such as in 
networking infrastructure and servers. 
ARM welcomes this competition – together 
with our Partners, we work hard to make 
our products as competitive as possible. 
During 2014, we saw our Partners introduce 
new technology based on ARM processors 
from the highest performance chips into 
servers and smartphones to low-cost, low- 
power chips for IoT. We have now signed 63 
licences with 38 companies for ARMv8-A 
technology, and in 2014 we started licensing 
two new ARMv8-A processors.
CEO’s statement continued...
Servers and networking infrastructure
ations. This market is a key growth area for ARM. 13 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
Collectively, the ARM ecosystem is the 
strongest in the industry.
Developing the organisation
ARM has always taken a long-term view, as 
it can take many years for technology to go 
from an idea being discussed by one of our 
engineering teams to a design licensed to our 
Partners, and then to a chip, and then to an 
end-market product being shipped in millions. 
This long-term view inﬂuences how we invest 
in the business and how we develop the 
capability of the people who are at the heart 
of this business, and the tools and processes 
that support them. 
This long-term view does not prevent us from 
being nimble when new opportunities present 
themselves. For example, as we identiﬁed 
an opportunity to develop new products for 
the IoT, we formed a new team by combining 
a newly acquired company with parts of 
existing engineering and marketing teams. 
We were able to ensure that we had the right 
skills, technology, partnerships and industry 
connections to enable ARM to become the 
primary technology used in all of the IoT 
end markets.
Developing the ecosystem
ARM, its customers and a broader partnership 
of companies create an ecosystem of 
innovation and invention. It is critical to ARM’s 
long-term success that this ecosystem thrives 
and grows and adapts for the next generation 
of ARM-based technologies. For an original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM) to build 
a smartphone or a server or an internet-
connected sensor, they need technology from 
multiple companies to integrate together into 
a single end product. ARM and its ecosystem 
provide this technology from processor 
designs, to chip designs and manufacturing, 
to software tools and operating systems, to 
training and design services. 
As ARM technology enters new markets, we 
invest a lot of time and resources into bringing 
new companies into the ecosystem, and we 
help ensure that the relevant technology 
within the ecosystem works well together. 
We work with others within the ecosystem 
to establish standard speciﬁcations; we create 
not-for-proﬁt entities to enable technology 
collaboration to solve common problems; 
we use technology from multiple companies 
to build test chips and example products; 
and we share our technology plans with 
companies so we can align our plans for 
developing technology. 
ARM is continually investigating new markets 
and experimenting with new technologies to 
discover new opportunities to grow. Some of 
these new technologies will be extensions of 
our existing product portfolios, or we may 
be able to take our existing technology into 
new market areas. We may even get the 
opportunity to create a new technology in 
a brand new market.
We are now preparing for the next ten 
years of ARM’s growth. At the beginning 
of 2014 we reorganised the business, and 
combined all the divisions together into a 
single product development team. This is led 
by the President of Product Groups, who is 
responsible for developing all of our current 
product roadmaps. We have also recruited 
new executives into the positions of CIO, 
EVP People and General Counsel, and with 
the retirement of Tim Score, we will soon 
welcome Chris Kennedy as our new CFO.
I believe these changes will signiﬁcantly 
strengthen the ability of the business to 
deliver our current roadmap, and give us the 
ﬂexibility to explore new prospects and new 
directions, and together these will drive ARM’s 
opportunities for many years to come.
In addition, the whole company has placed 
emphasis on improving our agility and speed, 
and the effectiveness of the entire organisation. 
We have been asking: “How can this task 
be done faster and with higher quality?” and 
applying our culture of innovation to the way 
we do things.
Together we are creating an environment 
where it is easier to get things done, where 
information ﬂows and is easier to ﬁnd and 
share; where repetitive tasks are automated 
and where our collective brain power can 
be applied to the most value-add activities – 
innovating, thinking, listening, collaborating, 
learning from each other and partnering 
to build the most successful and strongest 
ecosystem the technology world has ever seen, 
and that will drive growth for years to come. 14 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 14 ARM Holdings plc  Strategic Report 2014 Supporting 
creativity 
everywhere
ARM is lowering the barriers to entrepreneurship by 
providing tools to create the next generation of ARM-
based devices. 
One of ARM’s undergraduate engineers designed a 
message board that connects wirelessly to a smartphone. 
This prototype took a few days to develop, and the 
components (excluding the phone) cost less than $100.
Visit www.mbed.org for  
low-cost development  
boards and libraries of  
free software.
15 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials
In this section:
Our marketplace 00 
Our business model 00 
How we create value 00 
Strategy 00 
Key performance indicators 00 
Risk management 00
In this section:
Our marketplace 16 
Our business model 20 
Strategy 22 
Key performance indicators 24 
Risk management 31
