 Our diversified product portfolio provided us with a  
degree of insulation from the particularly sharp price falls  
for the bulk commodities of iron ore and coal, albeit in an 
environment where weaker commodity prices accounted 
for $2.4 billion
(1)
 of underlying EBIT reduction. The 
operational turnaround of a number of our priority 
operations and the continued weakening of many producer 
country currencies ($1.3 billion positive impact to underlying 
EBIT) also helped to mitigate the effects of the generally 
adverse pricing environment. After adjusting for the 
platinum strike, copper equivalent unit costs
(2) 
in local 
currency terms decreased by 3% (real) in 2014, and we 
have delivered a $500 million sustainable reduction in 
overhead and project study and evaluation costs compared 
to our 2012 baseline. Underlying EBIT of $4.9 billion, a 25% 
decrease, and underlying EBITDA of $7.8 billion, an 18% 
decrease, reflect the substantial operational progress we 
have made to restore the performance of our mines, though 
further progress is necessary to meet our return targets 
through the cycle. Underlying earnings reduced by 17%  
to $2.2 billion.
Our safety and environmental performance is a leading 
indicator of how we are running the business. The greater 
the degree of planned work and stable operations, the safer  
we will be. We have seen a very meaningful improvement 
across our key safety and environmental performance 
metrics, taking into account the five-month platinum strike, 
reflecting our focus on high risk activities, standards and 
controls. Despite the positive progress, I am saddened to 
report that we still lost six colleagues during the year, so we 
have a lot more work to do and our focus is unrelenting to 
achieve zero harm.
We have shown in 2014 that we are adapting and delivering 
and are on the right track to transform the performance  
of Anglo American. Our mining operations are the engine  
of our business and we have delivered higher and more 
consistent volumes, with a clear focus on increased stability, 
productivity, margins and returns. There is significantly more 
improvement potential as we continue to build the capability 
to achieve a step change in performance and returns from 
our exceptional resource endowment.
DELIVERING ON COMMITMENTS
We have delivered on the major operational and portfolio 
commitments for the year that we made to shareholders. 
Most prominently, we shipped our first ore from the 
Minas-Rio project in Brazil ahead of schedule in October, 
and expect to bring the project in $400 million below the 
revised budget. However, the steep drop in the iron ore  
price has resulted in a $3.5 billion post-tax write down in  
the carrying value of Minas-Rio. We are, though, clear  
about the asset’s potential and the differentiated nature  
of its high quality products in the market.
We have made substantial progress towards creating a 
platinum business fit for the future. We have defined the 
shape of our future platinum portfolio, taken the hard 
decisions to close down a number of shafts, restructured the 
assets that we plan to divest to demonstrate their long term 
commercial viability, set disposal processes under way and, 
most importantly, aligned our plans with government and 
with our employees.
I have been clear that a platform of operational excellence is 
fundamental to delivering the full potential of this business. 
Our top 16 priority assets contribute the majority of value to 
Anglo American and offer the scope for the greatest upside. 
The majority of those assets are now performing above plan 
(compared to only three in 2013) and the remainder are 
improving in line with our expectations.
We have focused urgent attention on the performance of 
our largest and most valuable mines, a number of which had 
become severely constrained in recent years due to a lack of 
mine development, with the positive results seen in our 2014 
operational performance. 
The redesign of the pit at the Sishen iron ore mine in  
South Africa and the implementation of our new Operating 
Model have successfully unlocked the challenge of excess 
waste material that needs to be mined to access the orebody. 
Sishen hit its target production level for 2014 of 35 million 
tonnes (Mt) of iron ore and is now on track to recover its 
production level to 38 Mt in 2016, in excess of our original  
37 Mt target. At the same time, its sister mine at Kolomela 
continues to outperform its nameplate capacity of 9 Mt per 
annum, producing 1 1.6 Mt in 2014, due to plant throughput 
optimisation, delivering ore feed at a lower unit cost and 
complementing the improving Sishen performance.
Similarly, at our Los Bronces copper mine in Chile, the  
waste backlogs and other pit constraints of previous years 
have been cleared and the mine and plant have been 
stabilised, enabling record material to be mined in the year 
and continuous ore to be fed into the plant. At the Collahuasi  
joint operation, also in Chile, the performance of the mining 
operation has been stabilised and improved and attention 
will move to the plant in 2015. As a result of these 
interventions to turn around the operations, we have been 
able to steadily increase production expectations for our 
Copper business during the year, to achieve full year 
production of 748 kt of copper, a 7% increase on the original 
guidance for the year.
FOCUS:  
OPERATING  
SMARTER
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
TRANSFORMING THE BUSINESS 
2014 was a year of significant operational 
improvement against sharp commodity  
price declines amid generally adverse  
market conditions. 
Mark Cutifani
(1) 
Excludes De Beers 
volume/price and 
impact of the strike  
at Platinum.
(2) 
See page 202 for  
the definition and 
calculation of copper 
equivalent unit costs.
08 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 The performance of our diamond business – De Beers –  
is a clear demonstration of the benefits and value of our 
diversified business model. The integration of De Beers  
into Anglo American is complete; De Beers contributed 
$1.4 billion of underlying EBIT in 2014, 28% of – and the 
second largest contributor to – the Group’s total, and 
delivered a 15% return on capital employed (ROCE).
DISCIPLINED ALLOCATION OF CAPITAL
Consistent with our focus on returns, we must be disciplined 
with our deployment of physical and financial resources to 
those assets that will provide us with the greatest value for 
capital employed and potential upside. Through our asset 
review process, we identified a number of assets – principally 
in our Platinum, Copper and Coal businesses – that are likely 
to deliver greater value under different ownership, enabling us 
to concentrate our resources on our most attractive priority 
assets. A number of sales processes are under way; however, 
our value hurdles will need to be met prior to divestment,  
in what is a challenging environment for asset sales. The 
proposed merger of Lafarge with Holcim, on which the sale 
of our 50% shareholding in Lafarge Tarmac to Lafarge is 
dependent, is progressing in line with the announced 
completion timetable of the first half of 2015 following a 
positive decision by the European Commission in December 
2014, but remains subject to certain other conditions.
We are committed to maintaining a robust capital structure 
which balances long term business value growth with 
sustainable capital returns to shareholders. In 2014, net  
debt increased to $12.9 billion and we expect to touch a 
peak level of $13.5-$14 billion during 2015, after receipt  
of Lafarge Tarmac sales proceeds. Anglo American is 
fortunate to have a world class resource endowment, 
including a number of attractive, predominantly brownfield 
options, for organic growth. We will continue to allocate 
capital to our most value accretive options and pursue a 
syndication approach for major greenfield developments,  
in line with managing individual risk exposures and  
achieving our long term net debt target of $10-$12 billion, 
assisted by our asset disposal programme.
Our revised Operating Model is delivering strong underlying 
results and we are building on those foundations to 
complete the next phase of the transformation process.  
Our focus on ROCE drives the right behaviours within the 
business and we are moving all the levers within our control 
to deliver $4 billion
(3)
 of additional EBIT in 2016 (compared 
to 2012 EBIT), all of which has now been fully scoped. We 
are intensifying our efforts to identify the additional EBIT 
necessary to mitigate recent downward pressure on prices.
PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE
Society’s expectations of the mining industry have long 
been in the spotlight, often for good reason, and our 
reputations can be shaped by the actions of others. At a 
global level, mining activity occupies a tiny fraction of the 
earth’s surface yet, to a community neighbouring a mine,  
it may feel somewhat different. The business imperative  
is clear; that without securing and sustaining our social 
licences to operate, more operations and developments will 
face disruption, costs will escalate further and opportunities 
will be lost on all fronts. We are working tirelessly through 
partnerships with the likes of the Kellogg Innovation 
Network and faith groups to change the status quo, to listen 
to what our host communities need – not what we think they 
need – and to uplift the industry to realise our vision of 
becoming real partners in their future. 
OUTLOOK
Despite the headlines of economic uncertainty and 
geopolitical tensions, the underlying fundamentals of our 
business – applying world class technical skills to world  
class assets – remain attractive over the long term. Declining 
ore grades, a very small number of new mineral discoveries 
and project developments, ever rising government and 
community expectations, and infrastructure and energy 
challenges all point towards a constrained supply picture  
for most of our products in a world where the major 
consuming economies are still growing, albeit at a slower 
pace of growth. China’s continuing growth slowdown  
has significantly altered the demand profile for many 
commodities, but successful reform and rebalancing should 
make the economy more resilient in the medium to longer 
term. While Europe and Japan are still struggling, we have 
seen more encouraging news on economic developments 
in the US and an apparent strengthening of India’s economy.
In the immediate term, I expect tough trading conditions  
to prevail during 2015, but we are determined to continue  
to build on our already very significant operational 
improvements, drive towards an effective and efficient 
organisation and culture, and to be unwavering in our  
capital discipline.
THANKS
On behalf of my executive colleagues, I would like to thank 
all our people – our employees and contractors – and the 
extensive network of stakeholders in our business for their 
continued dedication and support as we make the changes 
necessary to create a more agile, robust and sustainable 
Anglo American. We are transforming this business. We 
have a clear direction and we are creating a different, better 
future for Anglo American and for you all.
Lastly, I thank all the members of the Board, led by our 
chairman Sir John Parker, for sharing their extensive 
collective experience and providing the support for our 
strategy to deliver our full potential.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
09
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
(3) 
Attributable and  
at 30 June 2013 
exchange rates and 
commodity prices.
