 Operating review
In 2014, the management team delivered strongly 
against the Group’s strategy. A combination of 
improving conditions in the US, our business 
improvement initiatives and our risk management 
programme delivered further growth in revenue 
and operating profit. Revenue of £1.6bn was an 
all-time high for the Group and we increased the 
operating margin to 5.8%, marking good progress 
towards achieving our through-the-cycle target  
of 6.5%. 
Update on business improvement 
initiatives
Safety
Safety remains paramount in our business and  
the Group’s ‘Think Safe’ programme continues to 
drive improvements and raise awareness. Whilst 
we are pleased to report that the Group’s AFR 
reduced from 0.61 to 0.39 during 2014, one of 
our employees died in a work-related accident 
whilst on a jobsite in Ghana in mid-June. Such  
a tragic event reminds us of why we must be 
relentless in our efforts to eliminate work-related 
accidents and increases our resolve to redouble 
our efforts on all aspects of the Group’s safety 
programme. To that end, the Group’s ‘Think Safe’ 
programme is being updated and relaunched  
later in 2015.
Large contracts
The more ambitious development projects and 
infrastructure plans that have started to appear 
on the world markets in the past few years are  
an indication of the impact of population growth 
and related urbanisation. Recognising this market 
trend, for the last three years we have been 
targeting larger contracts, which in our specialist 
market start at just £5m, to supplement the small 
to medium sized contracts which we perform  
as a matter of routine. In 2014, we significantly 
increased the number of orders of larger 
contracts and during the year 25% of revenue 
was from such contracts. We expect to make 
further progress in this area.
Risk management
Three years ago we increased our focus on risk 
management including the creation of the post of 
Group Technology & Best Practice Director. Since 
that time local risk systems and procedures have 
been refreshed, a Risk Management Framework 
has been introduced, our Bid Appraisal System 
has been updated and KPIs for poorly performing 
contracts have been introduced. As a result of 
these actions, the trend in improved contract 
performance has continued. Although the 
exceptional contract dispute in the UK predated 
this recent period, lessons have been learned 
from this project and have been disseminated 
throughout the Group.
Equipment
We have been working hard over recent years  
to improve the utilisation of our equipment by 
transferring equipment to where it is most 
needed, scrapping our older or obsolete 
machinery and by investing in newer equipment. 
This has meant that capital expenditure has 
increased in 2014 to be above depreciation, a 
level we expect to continue for the foreseeable 
future throughout business cycles. We have a 
small plant facility in Southern Germany where 
we manufacture a limited amount of proprietary 
equipment which cannot be bought on the open 
market and which we believe gives us a significant 
competitive advantage. We have committed to 
further investment in this facility in 2015.
Technology
Keller is the global leader in many technologies 
and has the broadest range of products in the 
industry. Much of the Group’s growth over the 
years has come from transferring technologies 
from one geography to another. Developing and 
transferring technologies therefore continues to 
be a major focus for us and is important for 
securing future growth. 
We identify opportunities for technology transfer, 
promote centres of excellence, organise training 
and workshops in new technologies and then 
facilitate and co-ordinate research and 
development. Examples of successful technology 
transfers in the year include introducing 
geotechnical products to our relatively new 
business in Africa and introducing driven piling 
into our Asian businesses. 
Conditions in our major markets
In the US, expenditure in private non-residential 
construction increased significantly for the second 
year, with good growth in most segments. In the 
residential market, housing starts were up 9% 
year-on-year although this was primarily driven  
by multi-family homes as growth in single family 
starts paused in the second half of the year. 
Perhaps most encouragingly, 2014 saw a return  
to growth in public expenditure on construction, 
with year on year spend up 2% after four years  
of decline.
In Canada, construction activity in the Western 
Canadian resources markets remains subdued but 
demand in the commercial and infrastructure 
segments is holding up well.
Conditions in most of our European markets 
remain challenging, particularly in Southern 
Europe. Looking at Keller’s most important 
markets, there are some reasonable prospects  
in both Poland and Austria, despite the overall 
markets being relatively quiet; demand for our 
services in Germany remains flat; and the UK is 
the one market which has returned to steady, 
albeit slow, growth.
There are good opportunities in the Middle East 
but the market remains very competitive. Since 
we acquired Franki Africa in November 2013, the 
construction market in South Africa has picked 
up. Whilst there are some exciting opportunities 
elsewhere in the continent, a number of them are 
in the oil and gas arena and their timing is 
therefore uncertain.
 
Construction expenditure in the Group’s Asian 
markets remains generally robust. There are a 
number of significant infrastructure projects in 
Singapore and the Malaysian construction market 
is buoyant. In India, we are continuing to see signs 
of increasing confidence after a couple of 
relatively slow years. 
In Australia, construction expenditure across 
virtually all segments, including the resources 
sector, has been subdued for some time and 
there are no significant signs of this changing in 
the short term. The exception has been in LNG, 
where Keller has won and performed successfully 
a number of large projects, including the 
Wheatstone project, although the foundation 
works for the LNG plants under construction in 
Australia are now effectively complete. Whilst 
there are some significant infrastructure projects 
on the horizon, these are unlikely to come to 
fruition in 2015.
Justin Atkinson
Chief Executive Officer
The management 
team delivered 
strongly against 
our strategy.
6
Strategy
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s review Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Strategy
Keller Group plc snapshot
Our vision
What we want to be
To be the best at being global and the best at being local.
Our mission
What we set out to achieve
To provide technically advanced and cost-effective foundation solutions in order to deliver long term value to 
our shareholders.
Our services
What we do
P.2–3
Piling and  
earth retention
Ground 
improvement
Anchors, nails  
and minipiles
Specialty  
grouting
Post-tension 
concrete
Instrumentation 
and monitoring
Our markets
Where we operate
P.8–9
Business model
How the business delivers 
value
P.10–11
Our strategy
How we will achieve our 
mission
P.12–13
Our strategy is to extend our global leadership in 
specialist ground engineering through both organic 
growth, particularly in developing markets, and 
targeted acquisitions.
There are five main elements to our strategy:
Expansion  
– into new, higher growth regions
New technologies and methods 
– developed or acquired 
Transfer of technologies  
– and methods within our current regions
Design and build  
– capability and offering alternative solutions
Continuous improvement  
– to maintain our competitive edge
KPIs
How we monitor our success
P.23
We measure our strategy against a focused set of five 
key performance indicators:
A
 Revenue growth compared with market growth
B
 Operating margins 
C
 Return on net operating assets
D
 Accident Frequency Rate
E
 Staff turnover rate
Risks
How we manage our markets  
and operating environment
P.22–23
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the  
Group business model, strategy and resources.  
We have five key risks across our business:
Market cycles
Tendering and management of contracts
Expansion
Safety
People
Resources and 
relationships
What we need to achieve  
our mission
P.24–25
There are four main areas where our business impacts 
on society and where we have responsibilities which 
extend beyond our financial performance:
Safety 
Environment 
Workplace and People 
Communities
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7
North America 
We are the market leader in North America where  
we have had a market presence for over 30 years.
EMEA 
Our EMEA division has operations across Europe,  
the Middle East and Africa, and a developing business 
in Latin America.
Asia 
In recent years we have built up our presence in Asia.
Australia 
We operate under five business units throughout 
Australia. Although they specialise in different 
techniques, on very large or complex projects, they 
may join forces, under the Keller Australia brand.
Our business model is founded on a number of key 
pillars and is the key enabler of our strategy: 
Expertise
Safety
Technology
People
