 08
Strategic report
Superglass Holdings PLC Annual report and accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s review
Trading conditions in the UK insulation market have 
continued to be difficult, with a significant decline 
in demand for loft and cavity wall insulation resulting 
in excess manufacturing capacity, a highly 
competitive environment and continued pricing 
pressure. Demand from Government energy efficiency 
schemes, Green Deal and ECO has remained at 
negligible levels and no near‑term pickup is 
anticipated. By contrast, demand from construction 
markets is showing good growth fuelled by new‑ build 
housing activity and commercial construction. 
Responding to this ongoing trend, the Company 
has been repositioned to focus on construction 
markets, with sales to that sector now accounting 
for 80% of UK revenues compared to 30% four 
years ago. 
There was nonetheless an upturn in trading 
during the final quarter of the financial year 
ended 31 August 2014, driven by a step‑ change 
in sales volume, and this is a clear reflection of 
the progress that has been achieved. There have 
been improvements in product mix, with growing 
sales of higher margin products. We intend to 
continue to focus the Company’s commercial 
strategy towards higher value‑added and higher 
margin products. 
During the year new product certification was 
secured for our white blowing wool product, following 
the exit of a solus supply agreement. This important 
development will enable the Company to develop 
new routes to market for the product during the 
current financial year.
The Company has made significant operational 
progress in the period, driving down costs and 
improving manufacturing efficiencies. I am pleased 
to report that the business has delivered the planned 
annual cost savings. However, in response to market 
conditions and continued oversupply in the market, 
which is expected to persist for some time, our 
strategic focus is to further reduce operating costs. 
Potential incremental annual cost savings of 
approximately £1.9m have been identified, which 
would require capital investment of approximately 
£1.0m to implement and would include 
a significant reduction in manufacturing capacity.
Repositioned in recovering markets
With support from investors, we have further 
strengthened the capital base by means of 
a placing and by securing new banking facilities 
which will provide greater resilience to continue 
the transformation of the business in challenging 
market circumstances. The net proceeds of the 
placing of £5.7m are expected to be used to meet 
the capital costs associated with implementing 
the strategy to further reduce operating costs; 
to finance projected working capital outflows and 
trading losses during the current financial year; 
and to strengthen the Company’s balance sheet 
in order to provide greater flexibility and headroom 
in view of the continued volatility in trading.
The Clydesdale Bank debt has been refinanced 
by the arrangement of new banking facilities 
of up to £4.8m with Close Brothers.
Results and markets
Progress has been made in growing revenues through 
2013/14 from the low point of the second half of 
the previous financial year. Overall revenues in the 
first half of 2013/14 increased 6.5% (to £11.4m) 
on the second half of 2012/13 and second half 
revenues grew a further 6.9% (to £12.1m), 
reflecting the continued repositioning to focus on 
growing construction markets. Full year revenues, 
however , were down 3.6% (to £23.5m) compared to 
the previous year due to the collapse in Government 
scheme‑ related demand over the past 18 months. 
This has reduced the level of LBITDAE to £0.9m in the 
second half compared to £2.3m recorded in both 
the first half of 2013/14 and in the second half of the 
previous year . As reported within the announcement 
dated 9 September 2014, the Company achieved 
positive EBITDAE in both July and August but is not 
yet generating net cash on a monthly basis. Order 
patterns remain volatile and order visibility is 
expected to remain low for the foreseeable future. 
September order intake and sales volumes were 
slightly below overall FY14 run rates. The Company 
has also seen a marked improvement in loss before 
taxation in the second half of 2013/14, reducing from 
£4.3m in the first half of 2013/14 to £2.5m in the 
second half of the financial year . Full year loss before 
taxation was £6.8m compared to £7.0m in the 
previous financial year.
Alex McLeod
Chief Executive Officer 09
Annual report and accounts 2014 Superglass Holdings PLC
Strategic report
New‑ build housing completions in 2014 are 
estimated to be more than 15% ahead of last year. 
Further strong growth in this market channel is 
expected to continue, driven by Government 
support for the housing market. The extension of 
the Help to Buy scheme to 2020, combined with 
changes to building regulations in England and 
Wales in 2013, is expected to be a strong driver 
of growth in future for the Company. Repair, 
maintenance and improvement (RMI) activity is 
similarly driven by housing transactions which are 
believed to have shown strong growth on last year. 
The Company has been repositioned to focus on 
these growth market channels and sales growth 
in these channels has been strong, with volumes 
up 15% on the previous year. 
The uptake in insulation measures by households 
under the Green Deal and ECO remains very low. This 
has been further compounded by the Government’s 
announcement in the 2013 Autumn Statement of 
reduced ECO funding. This change has created an 
even greater slowdown in activity in this channel. 
The consequence of this is a further significant 
contraction of the supply chain. The Company 
previously announced that it has been able to exit 
a restrictive distribution agreement on cavity wall 
insulation and this creates some opportunity to 
broaden the customer base in this channel. 
We have continued to leverage the benefits generated 
from the new platform that our improved production 
facility has provided through further development 
of our key strengths: of flexibility, product quality 
and service. We have also strengthened our capability 
to develop end‑user relationships and innovation. 
In new build construction we have continued 
developing new specifications with an emphasis 
on new product innovation, particularly in acoustic 
solutions. Further innovative solutions are planned 
to address this market, which the industry expects 
to show very strong growth as a result of schemes 
introduced by the Government to stimulate the 
housing market.
The Company has begun actively developing 
routes to Eastern European markets which, while 
less profitable than UK sales due to high transport 
costs, generate a positive contribution. Overall 
exports accounted for 10.0% of total volumes 
in 2013/14 compared to 4.8% in the financial 
year 2012/13. 
With rising demand in construction channels there 
has been some modest recovery in pricing levels 
during the financial year. This trend is expected to 
continue as demand increases and industry capacity 
utilisation continues to improve.
Operations
The Company has made significant operational 
progress in the period, driving down costs and 
improving manufacturing efficiencies. I am pleased 
to report that the business has delivered the planned 
annual cost savings originally targeted. However, 
in response to market conditions and continued 
oversupply in the market, which is expected to persist 
for some time, the strategy is to further reduce 
operating costs. Further potential incremental annual 
cost savings of approximately £1.9m have been 
identified, which would require capital investment 
of approximately £1.0m to implement and 
would include a significant reduction in 
manufacturing capacity.
The Company’s waste glass supplier, Viridor, has 
announced investment in a state‑of‑the‑art waste 
glass processing facility. The new plant, which is 
expected to come onstream early 2015, is located 
in the central belt of Scotland and will provide 
Superglass with access to the highest quality 
waste glass, enabling a further step change in 
operational performance.
Board and Executive
The Board recently announced the appointment 
of Lars Rutegård as Non‑ executive Director. Lars 
was appointed to the Board on 30 October 2014. 
He studied at the Royal Institute of Technology 
in Stockholm and has a background in the industrial 
and manufacturing sectors. Lars is currently the 
managing director of International Fibres Group 
AB and a non‑ executive director of Johnson & 
Starley Ltd and Direktlaminat AB.
Previous announcements of Board and Executive 
appointments included the appointment of John 
Colley as Executive Chairman, Chris Lea to the 
Board as Finance Director, and Mark Atherton as 
Operations Director and Ken Munro as Sales Director.
The Company also announced that Allan Clow, 
Finance Director, resigned from the Board 
on 29 November 2013 and Declan Billington, 
Non‑ executive Director, resigned from the Board 
on 31 July 2014. The Board would like to thank 
Allan and Declan for their substantial contribution 
to the Company. 
Strategy and outlook
The recently announced placing and arrangement of 
new banking facilities together enable the Company 
to continue the cost reduction strategy and align 
capacity to the evolving market circumstance in 
the light of continued weakness in Government 
schemes. In this more constrained environment 
the focus will continue on improving sales mix 
through growth in both existing and new value‑added 
products, primarily in construction markets but 
also in adjacent markets.
Whilst there are increasing signs of recovery 
and growth in construction markets, the poor 
uptake of Government energy efficiency schemes 
is expected to persist through the coming financial 
year and beyond. We will carefully monitor market 
conditions as they evolve and will refine our operating 
strategy in light of any material changes.
Alex McLeod
Chief Executive Officer
19 November 2014
Sales volumes
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
n Others
n Green Deal/ECO
n Housing
n RMI
n Export
