 02
Overview
Superglass Holdings PLC Annual report and accounts 2014
I am pleased to report the successful completion 
of the £6.25m placing and details of the Company’s 
new banking facilities with Close Brothers. We 
are delighted with the ongoing support from 
existing investors, as well as support from new 
investors including Bronsstädet AB, which now 
has a meaningful stake in the Company. The 
placing provides Superglass with a considerably 
strengthened and sustainable long‑term capital 
structure. The Company continues to be well placed 
to benefit from any resurgence in market volumes 
and the efficiencies from its ongoing capital 
investment programme. 
The results for the year reflect the continuing 
difficult trading conditions and planned production 
outages for Project Phoenix works. Loss before 
interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and 
exceptional items (LBITDAE) was £3.2m, in line with 
expectations, reflecting the collapse in retrofit demand 
following the introduction of the Government’s 
flagship energy schemes, Green Deal and the Energy 
Company Obligation (ECO). It is encouraging to see 
that through the repositioning of the business to 
focus on growing construction markets and aggressive 
targeting of the cost base, the level of LBITDAE has 
reduced to £0.9m in the second half compared 
to £2.3m in the second half of the previous year. 
As reported within the announcement dated 
9 September 2014, the Company achieved positive 
EBITDAE in both July and August but is not yet 
generating net cash on a monthly basis.
The continued weakness of the Government schemes, 
Green Deal and ECO, has had a significant impact 
on the market and our results. Despite the fact that 
there remain a large number of under‑insulated 
residential buildings in the UK, and that loft and 
cavity wall insulation is one of the most cost‑effective 
ways of improving energy efficiency and reducing 
carbon emissions, the structure of the current 
schemes has resulted in substantially reduced 
demand. Our view is that there is not likely to be 
any meaningful change to Government policy on 
energy efficiency until after the next election and, 
in common with other businesses in the sector, we 
will continue to drive down costs and seek to align 
our capacity to the market circumstances.
Developing further opportunities
By contrast, demand from construction 
markets is showing good growth fuelled by 
new build housing activity and commercial 
construction. Responding to this ongoing trend, 
the Company has been repositioned to focus on 
construction markets, with sales to that sector 
now accounting for 80% of UK revenues compared 
to 30% four years ago. 
I am pleased to report that Superglass made good 
progress during the year whilst operating in very 
challenging markets. Planned cost savings arising 
from the investment programme, Project Phoenix, 
have been delivered and further cost saving 
initiatives have been identified. 
Despite the challenging trading conditions, 
through strong working capital management, 
the cash balance at 31 August 2014 was £3.0m 
and the net debt balance at the end of the year 
was £0.4m (2013: net cash of £4.3m). The Board 
concluded that an equity raise and introduction 
of additional banking facilities was appropriate 
to secure the investment necessary in the 
Company, having regard to its financial and 
trading position, and in the face of continuing 
volatility in trading conditions.
Our strategy for the current financial year is 
to continue to reposition the business through 
product and service innovation, delivering 
enhanced product quality and outstanding 
customer service. We also plan to make further 
improvements in efficiency during the year 
including energy, waste and overhead savings.
John Colley
Executive Chairman
19 November 2014 
John Colley
Executive Chairman
Chairman’s statement 03
Annual report and accounts 2014 Superglass Holdings PLC
Overview
“ Superglass has continued to operate in very challenging markets but has 
made good progress in delivering promised cost savings and continued the 
repositioning in new markets. We also concluded a successful refinance in 
October which strengthens the capital structure of the Group and provides 
financing for investment which will yield further cost savings and efficiency 
improvements. Our strategy for the current financial year is to continue to 
reposition the business through product and service innovation, delivering 
enhanced product quality and outstanding customer service.”
John Colley, Executive Chairman
