 Strategic report
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30
Group Chief Executive’s report
“ The good results in 2014 again demonstrate 
the fundamental strengths and resilience 
of our business, with record profits and 
margin improvement achieved against an 
unhelpful economic background and a stiff 
currency headwind.”
Nick Anderson 
Group Chief Executive
Introduction
The good results in 2014 again demonstrate 
the fundamental strengths and resilience 
of our business, with record profits and 
margin improvement achieved against an 
unhelpful economic background and a 
stiff currency headwind. Our direct sales 
business model leverages the skills and 
experience of our 1,300 sales and service 
engineers across the world, to generate 
solutions to customers’ energy and water 
savings, emissions, productivity, quality and 
cost problems. In so doing, we reinforce the 
trusting, long-term relationships that we have 
with our customers and further build our 
installed base, which underpins the resiliency 
of our business that also benefits from the 
high replacement element to our sales.
During 2014, we undertook an extensive 
strategic review that confirmed both the 
quality of our business and identified how 
we could do better what we already do well. 
This evolutionary strategy is captured in our 
six strategic priorities:
• Increase direct sales effectiveness 
through sector focus, enhancing our 
customer value propositions;
• Develop the knowledge and skills of 
our expert sales and service teams, 
enabling them to better understand 
our customers’ processes and apply 
engineered solutions to their steam and 
niche pumping and fluid path problems;
• Broaden our global presence, 
achieving a first-to-market advantage from 
early entry into new markets;
• Leveraging R&D investments, 
widening our range of new products and 
solutions, which is crucial to the long-term 
growth and sustainability of our business;
• Optimise supply chain effectiveness, 
enhancing product availability, increasing 
flexibility, reducing costs and optimising 
customer service;
• Operate sustainably and help improve 
our customers’ sustainability, which is 
at the core of our business operations.
Our focus is on generating our own growth 
and outperforming our markets. Our direct 
sales approach provides opportunities 
for us to unlock unrecognised customers’ 
needs, which is especially valuable in an 
environment of subdued and slowing global 
industrial production growth. Our business 
is very resilient but not immune to any 
market weakness.
We are actively engaged in the 
implementation of our growth strategy 
across the organisation, with the pace of 
strategy roll out increasing as we progress 
priority projects. In addition, we have 
strengthened our acquisition strategy and 
sharpened our target search criteria with 
the aim of expanding the capabilities of our 
core steam specialties and Watson-Marlow 
businesses, extending geographic coverage 
and increasing our addressable markets into 
related areas.
Market environment
Steam provides the heat source across a 
wide range of industries and niche peristaltic 
pumps are used across a range of sectors. 
This wide spread, coupled with the fact that 
a large proportion of our revenue is derived 
from customers’ operating and maintenance 
spend, means that our markets tend to 
reflect the rates of growth in industrial 
production both in individual markets, 
Segment revenue changes* 
£m
Segment operating profit 
changes* £m
FX Watson-
Marlow
Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-6% +13% +8% +2% +2%
0.0
4.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
-£44m
FX Watson-
Marlow
Americas Asia Paciﬁc EMEA
-10% +20% +31% +4% +4%
10.0
7.5
5.0
2.5
0.0
-£15m
* Rates of change at constant currency.
* Based on adjusted profit at constant currency.
  Unless otherwise stated, all references are to adjusted profit, 
which excludes certain non-operating items as set out in note 2 
on page 120. Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31
1. Strategic report 2. Governance 3. Financial statements 4. Corporate information
Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), with 
growth in most of the larger operations, and 
in Asia Pacific, with Korea performing well.
Sales of £678.3 million show a reduction 
of nearly 2% compared with sales of 
£689.4 million in 2013, due to unfavourable 
currency movements that impacted 
sales by 6.4% on translation. Sterling was 
stronger against every one of our reporting 
currencies, compounded by significant 
currency weakness in a number of our 
smaller markets. These stiff currency 
headwinds have now largely abated and 
if recent exchange rates prevail for the full 
year, sales in 2015 would show a further net 
reduction of 2% on translation into sterling 
versus 2014 average exchange rates.
Watson-Marlow’s brand has been changed 
to Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group, 
reflecting the evolution of the business 
from a manufacturer of niche peristaltic 
pumps and tubing, to its current position 
as a world leader in niche peristaltic pumps 
and associated fluid path technologies. 
Organic sales growth in Watson-Marlow of 
9% was spread across virtually all product 
lines, with new products continuing to 
make a valuable contribution. There were 
increases in both project work and base 
business, with progress in most industry 
sectors except precious metals mining, 
where sales were down on the prior year. 
Geographically, growth was strongest in 
Asia, from a relatively smaller base, as we 
further penetrate developing markets, and 
sales were well ahead in North America and 
EMEA. The acquisition of BioPure added 
a further 4% to sales, taking total constant 
currency growth of Watson-Marlow to 13%.
Organic sales increased by 3.4% in our 
steam specialties business, with higher than 
average increases in controls and energy 
management that are of increasing strategic 
focus. Higher sales came from improved 
base business, reflecting sustained demand 
from customers’ operating and maintenance 
activities, while project work remained 
broadly flat due to a continued lack of 
confidence by customers to invest in higher 
value expansion, productivity and energy 
saving projects. Geographically, organic 
growth was led by the Americas, with sales 
up in North America and well ahead in Latin 
America; the latter supported by some 
currency-driven pricing gains in Argentina. 
Organic sales rose modestly in EMEA, due 
in part to project work in Italy, and rose in 
Asia Pacific due largely to Korea. Sales were 
flat in China as industrial overcapacity in 
many sectors and government initiated anti-
corruption measures across the country, 
reduced overall levels of project work.
Record operating profit and margins 
were achieved in 2014. Group operating 
profit of £153.0 million was 12% higher at 
constant currency, with a strong currency 
headwind reducing the reported increase 
to 1% over the prior year operating 
profit of £151.6 million. Watson-Marlow 
performed very strongly and there were 
operating profit increases at constant 
currency in each of the steam specialties 
segments in the Americas, Asia Pacific 
and EMEA.
There was a strong increase in operating 
profit margin, rising to 22.5% from 22.0%, 
despite the stiff currency headwind. 
The Group benefited from continued 
price management actions and broadly 
flat raw material and component costs. 
Improvements in our internal supply chain 
enabled a reduced level of subcontract 
costs and increased efficiency, and 
generally business and product mix 
was favourable versus the prior year. 
We continued to invest in product and 
market development for the long term, 
however, we tightened controls of 
overheads through the second half of 
the year, as the world economic growth 
outlook moderated. Our business is 
seasonally biased to the second half and, 
as expected, this was slightly accentuated 
in 2014 by shipment of the larger than 
normal backlog built up in the first 
half year.
Market outlook
We continue to benefit from the many 
improvements made to our business in 
recent years and expect further benefits 
for all stakeholders over the coming 
years as we implement growth strategies 
across all aspects of our business to drive 
outperformance against our markets.
Industrial production growth prospects 
have been scaled back for 2015. 
However, we have an outstanding growth 
record and a direct sales business model 
that offers opportunities for self-help, 
whilst deriving a large proportion of 
revenues from customers’ operating 
and maintenance budgets, giving a high 
degree of resilience to our business 
in more difficult economic conditions. 
We are increasing investment and adding 
resources in support of our growth 
strategy and we are confident that, 
through these actions, we can continue 
to outperform our markets and deliver 
further improvements in our business.
regionally and worldwide. The nature of our 
business is that we generally lag movements 
in economic conditions by a couple of 
quarters. Global industrial production growth 
picked up modestly in the second half of 
2013 and into 2014 but has been slowing 
again since the latter half of 2014 in both 
developed and emerging markets.
Whilst the price of oil may influence the cost 
of energy to our customers, the correlation of 
the price of oil to our sales is weak; payback 
on energy cost savings being only one of 
a wide range of motivations for customers 
to trade with us. Our direct sales business 
model means that our sales engineers 
work closely with customers to identify 
improvements to their steam systems, and 
peristaltic pump and associated fluid path 
systems. Typical benefits, other than energy 
savings, include reduced CO 2e emissions, 
water savings, productivity improvements, 
efficiency improvements, reduced quality 
costs and regulatory compliance.
Market conditions in Europe weakened 
steadily through the year, with year-on-year 
growth in industrial production close to zero 
by the year end. This included negative 
growth all year in France and Italy, and 
steadily slowing growth in Germany but with 
a continued positive reading in the UK and 
indeed Spain.
In the Americas, industrial production 
growth continued at a healthy pace in North 
America throughout the period, in contrast to 
negative growth through the period in South 
America, including in Brazil and Argentina 
where economic conditions remain difficult.
In Asia Pacific, industrial production 
growth was positive but slowed markedly 
in the second half of 2014 due to the 
widely reported deceleration in China and 
negative growth in Korea in the final quarter. 
Market conditions were, however, good in 
Australia and some of our smaller operations 
in Indonesia and the Philippines.
Progress in 2014
Group sales increased by just over 5% 
at constant currency to £678.3 million, 
comprising organic sales growth of over 
4% and nearly 1% from the acquisition of 
BioPure Technology Limited in January 
2014. Growth was strongest in Watson-
Marlow, with all geographic regions 
ahead. In the steam specialties business, 
the Americas segment saw good overall 
organic sales growth, with progress in North 
America and a good gain in Latin America, 
the latter including the benefit of currency-
related price increases in Argentina. 
Organic sales were modestly ahead in 
