 I	r eport	on	a	year	of	some	significant	
challenges for the Company following 
our exceptional results for 2013. Despite 
anticipating	a	r elatively	flat	year	in	terms	 
of revenues we were unable to achieve 
the targets that we had set ourselves.  
For	the	first	half	of	the	year	r esults	wer e	 
as expected, however, we did not foresee  
the	significant	step	down	in	or ders	during	
the second half of 2014.
Following very strong growth from the ceramics 
decoration market over the last four years, our 
reliance on this segment was highlighted by 
the 2014 slow-down in the Chinese property 
and construction industries (approaching half of 
the world’s ceramic tiles are manufactured and 
sold in China). This is a volatile market, serviced 
by a small number of OEMs, that has proved 
extr emely 	 difficult 	 to 	 pr edict 	 and 	 consequently 	
forward visibility continues to be limited.
We have managed to retain global market 
leadership, in this competitive market segment. 
Nevertheless competitor activity brought pricing 
pressure that inevitably affected margins. Slower 
than expected progress in the development  
of other applications heightened the impact  
of our exposure to the slow-down in the  
ceramics market.
Once it became clear that the demand would 
not 	 r ecover 	 quickly , 	 we 	 took 	 decisive 	 action	
to match our costs, and reduce our output, in 
line with projected revenue. Unfortunately this 
r esulted 	 in 	 160 	 r edundancies 	 which 	 equated	
to 20% of the global work force. All of the cost 
saving measures were implemented prior to  
the end of 2014. 
We remain cautious about the short term and 
believe we have restructured appropriately to 
achieve 	 r easonable 	 pr ofitability , 	 thr ough 	 r educed 	
manufacturing and operating costs, even at the 
current lower level of business. The increases 
in our manufacturing capacity over the last 
few years provide us with the infrastructure 
to accommodate future growth. However 
this capacity will be under-utilised in the short 
term with a corresponding negative effect on 
operating margins.
Despite the workforce reduction we have been 
careful to maintain our recently expanded R&D 
capability so that our longer term product 
development strategy is unaffected. In this 
regard, progress on our future Platform 4 (P4) 
technology continues to meet the milestones as 
planned. Gross R&D spend represented 18%  
of revenue in 2014, and is expected to represent 
around 20% of revenue in 2015, underlining 
our commitment to maximise the potential 
of the Company via technology and product 
development.
Total revenue for the year was down 19% 
versus the exceptional results of 2013, but sales 
wer e 	 26% 	 higher 	 than 	 2012. 	 In 	 2014 	 sales 	 into	
Asia fell heavily (by 29%) due to the reasons 
already stated, with Europe affected but to a 
lesser extent (11%). European ceramic OEM 
partners tend to have more regionally diverse 
businesses, 	 although 	 China 	 is 	 also 	 a 	 significant 	
market for them.
 
We continue to deploy our disruptive technology 
into other markets, and generating material 
revenues from a wider and more balanced 
set of markets remains a key objective of the 
Company. I look forward to reporting on our 
progress against this objective in the future.
Whilst the downturn in the second half of the 
year is clearly disappointing, the Company 
still achieved an adjusted operating margin 
of 22% for 2014, and generated adjusted 
diluted 	 ear nings 	 per 	 shar e 	 of 	 26.4 	 pence.	
The Company continues to manage its cash 
resources prudently with net cash (cash, cash 
equivalents 	 and 	 tr easury 	 deposits) 	 at 	 the 	 end	 
of the year of £47.0 million.
As announced in 2014 the Company has 
formally implemented a progressive and 
sustainable dividend policy, and I am pleased  
to 	 confirm 	 that 	 the 	 Boar d 	 is 	 r ecommending 	
a 	 final 	 dividend 	 of 	 6 	 pence 	 per 	 shar e. 	 This 	
together with the 3 pence interim dividend paid 
during 	 the 	 year 	 equals 	 9 	 pence 	 for 	 the 	 full 	 year ,	
a 12.5% increase over 2013 (2013: 8 pence).
In March 2014 our long serving CEO Ian 
Dinwoodie announced his decision to retire in 
2015 and we began an international search for 
his successor. That search was successful and 
Dr. Doug Edwards joined us at the beginning 
of January 2015. Doug joined Xaar from Kodak 
(Eastman Kodak Company) where most recently 
he was President, Digital Printing and Enterprise 
and has been a member of the Executive Board 
since 	 2006.	
On behalf of the Board I want to thank Ian 
for his tireless devotion to Xaar over his 14 
years with the Company including 12 years as 
CEO. His leadership has helped transform the 
Company to its current market leading position.
Additionally, as noted in February 2015, David 
Cheesman, one of our Non-Executive Directors, 
has indicated his intention to retire from the 
Board, and he has therefore decided not to 
stand for re-election at the Company AGM on 
13 May 2015. A search is underway for David’s 
replacement. I would like to thank David for his 
contribution over the last four years.
Finally, on 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined 
the Xaar Board in the role of Chief Human 
Resour ces 	 Officer . 	 Jim 	 joined 	 Xaar 	 fr om 	 Kodak 	
(Eastman Kodak Company) and has held a 
variety of global HR roles in the graphics and 
digital print industry. I am pleased to welcome 
Jim to the Board, who brings a wealth of 
invaluable experience to Xaar in this new  
Board position.
The Group continues to follow the 2012 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Board meetings 
are supported by detailed papers and timely 
minutes. Attendance by all members remains 
excellent and I take this opportunity to thank 
them for their continuing commitment and 
professionalism. The Board continues to 
take dedicated days to consider and review 
the Group’s strategy. Detailed market and 
competitive analysis is undertaken in advance 
and the future direction and capabilities of the 
Group are debated in detail. All members of  
the Board are evaluated annually against 
specific 	 and 	 r elevant 	 performance 	 criteria.
2014 has been a challenging period for 
the Company, but our ambition remains 
undiminished. We are focussed on re-starting 
growth following this sharp step down in 
the Chinese market. The importance of 
diversification 	 by 	 market, 	 pr oduct 	 and 	 
geography has been underlined by the  
events of 2014.
A challenging year
Chairman’s statement
The importance of 
diversification	by	market,	
product and geography 
has been underlined by 
the events of 2014.
During printhead manufacture, which is a highly 
complex process, thousands of measurements 
ar e	taken	to	ensur e	specification	is	met	very	
precisely.
The Xaar 1002 is the market-leading printhead 
in the ceramics sector.
Phil Lawler
Chairman
19 March 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 5 4 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Most things we come into contact with 
on a daily basis are patterned, decorated, 
printed	or	finished	in	some	way .	In	fact,	
even after excluding printing in the 
office	or	the	home,	over	3	trillion	m²	of	
material is printed, patterned, decorated 
or	finished	each	year	–	that’ s	a	monthly	
output	equivalent	to	the	surface	ar ea	 
of the United Kingdom.
These items can be broadly split into four 
areas: products, packaging, promotion 
and publishing. Products include things like 
ceramic	tiles	and	laminate	flooring.	Packaging	
includes labels on bottles and bar codes on 
boxes. Promotion includes advertising banners 
and posters. Publishing includes books and 
newspapers. 
Perhaps surprisingly around 97% of production 
processes used in the manufacture of these 
items still use traditional analogue technology. 
Analogue	(sometimes	r eferr ed	to	as	‘fixed	
image’) solutions can be very effective when 
the same image is replicated many, many 
times.	However ,	wher e	fr equent	changes	ar e	
r equir ed	or	run	lengths	ar e	shorter ,	then	digital	
(also known as ‘variable image’) processes 
can	pr ovide	significant	cost	and	inventory	
reductions whilst improving time-to-market 
versus	analogue	techniques.	
Over the last 20 years digital imaging 
technologies, including digital inkjet, have 
emerged for applying images, patterns or 
finishes	in	mor e	efficient,	flexible	and	cost-
effective ways. Because of its ability to work 
with	a	variety	of	jetting	fluids	and	substrates,	
and	in	difficult	envir onments,	inkjet	has	the	
unique	ability	to	potentially	r eplace	all	curr ent	
printing	techniques.
The pace of inkjet’s adoption and the rate it 
displaces existing technologies is driven by 
some key factors, including cost, speed and 
image	quality ,	which	must	be	met	in	or der	
for the adoption to take place. Because of 
these characteristics the adoption of inkjet 
has typically occurred through ‘waves of 
conversion’ in distinct market segments,  
as the developing technology meets the 
individual	conversion	r equir ements	of	 
particular applications.
Xaar, a world leader in industrial inkjet, has 
successfully developed digital technology 
and manufactured and sold inkjet products, 
predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. The printhead is the heart of the digital 
pr ocess,	depositing	fluids,	including	inks	and	
coatings,	in	pr ecisely	the	right	quantity	and	in	
the right place on the substrate, without even 
touching the surface.
T o	date	Xaar	has	driven,	and	benefited	
from, ‘waves of conversion’ in two particular 
applications: outdoor advertising (including 
billboards, posters and banners) and ceramic 
tile decoration, which have both adopted digital 
inkjet technology. These two applications 
presently use inkjet to annually produce over  
7 billion m², but represent only 0.2% of the  
3 trillion m² entire global print production.
Xaar’s challenge is to expand its existing digital 
inkjet printhead technology into new markets 
and to develop new technology to maximise 
the opportunity that exists from the conversion 
of much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Looking forward, the opportunities for digital 
print continue to accelerate. Industry forecasts 
project the digital print market to double over 
the next ten years.
The Xaar 1002, with market-
leading patented technology, 
has transformed the ceramics 
market.
The digital inkjet opportunity
Market overview
Industry forecasts project that the conversion  
to digital over the next 10 years is expected  
to be twice that seen over the last 20 years.
2x
97%
97% of industrial and 
commercial printing still 
uses traditional analogue 
processes. 
3tr m
2
Over 3 trillion m² of material is printed, 
patter ned,	decorated	or	finished	
each year – that’s a monthly output 
equivalent	to	the	surface	ar ea	of	the	
United Kingdom.
20yrs
Over the last 20 years digital imaging 
technologies, including digital inkjet, 
have emerged for applying images, 
patter ns	or	finishes	in	mor e	efficient,	 
flexible	and	cost-ef fective	ways.	
Xaar, a world leader in inkjet, has successfully developed 
digital technology and manufactured and sold inkjet 
products, predominantly printheads, into a number of 
sectors. To date, only 3% of the commercial and industrial 
print market has converted to digital printing, including 1% 
to digital inkjet.
The printhead is the heart of the digital print process.
Xaar’ s challenge is to expand its existing digital inkjet printhead 
technology into new markets and to develop new technology 
to maximise the opportunity that exists from the conversion of 
much larger applications to digital inkjet.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 7 6 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc
