 Developing new products and new technology Building the eco-system
Our strategy
We manage our product development programmes across 
three horizons: short term by delivering updates and 
impr ovements;	medium	term	by	developing	new	pr oducts	
or	derivatives	using	existing	technologies;	and	longer	term	
through research and development of novel technologies.
To create and maintain competitive advantage over the short to 
medium term, it is critical that we continue to improve existing 
products as well as developing new products. Over the medium to 
long term, in order to access a greater proportion of the enormous 
industrial print market we must continue to develop new technology 
which can open up opportunities for the application of digital inkjet  
in established analogue markets. 
We develop and maintain the different sets of skills and processes 
needed to execute the programmes in each of the three horizons 
successfully, and we balance our portfolio to achieve our short, 
medium and long term objectives targeted at achieving sustained 
pr ofitable	gr owth.
Products developed to date use our patented Xaar bulk piezo 
technology. Our Thin Film piezo technology programme will enable us 
to target an even wider range of applications in the future, which will 
significantly	incr ease	Xaar’ s	addr essable	market.
Inkjet is a heavily patented area and managing our intellectual property 
(IP) is critical to our success, both in terms of protecting our position 
and avoiding infringing other parties’ IP . Our technology is protected 
by over 250 patents to date.
W e	allocate	significant	r esour ces	to	r esear ch	and	development	 
to enable the successful completion of programmes which will 
generate future sales. 
To penetrate any market successfully, an eco-system of 
technical and commercial partnerships must be formed to 
drive and support market conversion.
Xaar’ s 	 dir ect 	 customers 	 ar e 	 OEMs, 	 who 	 manufactur e 	 equipment 	 for	
patter ning, 	 decorating, 	 finishing 	 or 	 printing 	 pr oducts 	 in 	 a 	 number 	 
of different market sectors. We provide our OEM partners with the  
know-how and ability to incorporate our innovative range of printheads, 
systems 	 components, 	 and 	 electr onics 	 into 	 their 	 equipment 	 to 	 incr ease	
the value and functionality of their own products, and minimise the time 
r equir ed 	 to 	 bring 	 pr oducts 	 to 	 market.
In addition to our close engagement with OEMs we also actively 
partner	and	co-develop	with	fluid	suppliers,	har dwar e	and	softwar e	
integrators, and substrate suppliers to deliver a robust and attractive 
total solution to the end user. We operate an open ink policy so that 
our customers can choose the ink supplier that best suits them and 
their application. In addition, we work in partnership with the world’s 
leading ink manufacturers to develop and approve a wide range of 
inks which are optimised for our printheads and the end application.
Given	the	complexity	of	the	final	integrated	solution,	it	is	typical	that	
our partners’ development cycles are measured in years rather 
than	months,	with	successful	solutions	then	benefiting	fr om	long	
commercial lifecycles. To support these developments we deploy 
sales and technical support staff globally ensuring a local presence  
in each of the key geographical regions.
2014 Update 2014 Update
In March 2014 the Group announced the launch of 
the Xaar 1002 building on the success of the world 
leading Xaar 1001 through improvements in image 
quality	and	ease	of	use.	The	Xaar	1002	ships	into	
multiple applications and has replaced the Xaar 1001 
as market-leader. 
In May 2014 three new printheads were announced: 
the	Xaar	1002	GS40;	the	Xaar	1002	SBX;	and	the	 
Xaar 001, targeting ceramic tile decoration and  
glaze processes.
The Xaar 1002 GS40 is now shipping worldwide into 
ceramic tile factories through our OEM partners. The 
main application for the product is the manufacture 
of tiles with higher levels of colour intensity achieved 
through the larger drop size delivered by the printhead 
compared to the GS12. A number of OEMs are also 
exploring the potential to use this product for particular 
var nish,	glaze	and	finishing	pr ocesses.	The	Xaar	1002	
SBX aims to produce even greater laydown than the 
Xaar 1002 GS40. We expect the SBX will jet the same 
special	ef fect	fluids	in	development	for	the	GS40,	plus	
some	new	fluids	specifically	developed	for	the	SBX.	
The	Xaar	001	aims	to	bring	the	benefits	of	digital	inkjet	
to the glaze, special effects and structure processes 
within ceramic tile manufacture. The product is 
integrated into printers that are at a prototype stage 
and we are working with key OEMs on market testing 
through the middle of 2015. Target markets for the 
Xaar 001 remain an exciting opportunity that Xaar and 
our partner OEMs anticipate will progress to digital 
solutions.
The Xaar 501 aims to provide higher levels of 
performance in graphics and packaging. Following 
field	trials	in	2014	we	identified	technical	impr ovement	
opportunities to optimise printhead performance which 
we	ar e	engineering	now	to	finalise	pr oduct	design	and	
move to commercial shipments.
Our Thin Film programme aims to open up more of 
the analogue market to Xaar through a solution which 
offers a generational shift in performance. Successful 
print testing was achieved during 2014 using early 
prototypes. Discussions with OEM partners are on-
going. Although there is a long way to go, progress  
is encouraging and remains on track. 
We continue to work with the leading OEMs in our 
target	sectors	as	well	as	the	appr opriate	fluid	suppliers,	
hardware and software integrators, and substrate 
suppliers in order to deliver a robust and attractive total 
solution to the end user.
The on-going developments by multiple OEMs in 
Direct-to-Shape packaging using Xaar technology is 
a strong indication of our position as market leader in 
new applications.
We are working with multiple OEM partners through 
the Thin Film technology programme.
Across all markets and applications Xaar now has 
approaching 250 active eco-system partners.
Our Thin Film programme aims 
to open up more of the analogue 
market to Xaar through the 
development of a solution which 
offers a generational shift in 
performance.
We continue to work closely 
with multiple OEM partners to 
deliver robust and innovative 
inkjet solutions, transforming new 
markets and applications.
Edmund Creutzmann
Chief	T echnical	Officer
Richard Barham
Sales and Marketing Director
Printheads are the key technology in the total digital solution, 
which	also	r equir es	electr onics,	softwar e,	fluids	and	fluid	systems.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 13 12 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc Production related roles accounted for 120 
of the reduction. Our substantial investment 
in people over the last few years, in terms 
of both capacity and capability across the 
business, position the Company well to 
execute its strategic objectives.
On 2 March 2015 Jim Brault joined the Xaar 
Board in the role of Chief Human Resources 
Officer .	Jim	brings	a	wealth	of	invaluable	
HR experience to Xaar in this new Board 
position.	The	cr eation	of	this	r ole	r eflects	
the strategic importance of the talent and 
skill of our people in the next phase of the 
Company’s development.
Ted Wiggans
Operations and Quality Director
Jim Brault
Chief	Human	Resour ces	Officer
Richard Barham
Sales and Marketing Director
Converting multiple markets
Our strategy
Enhancing our capability
2014 Update 2014 Update
68%
Ceramics continues to provide a substantial share  
of total sales.
Our overall progress in the conversion of multiple 
markets was disappointing in 2014.
During 2013, following the success of the product 
in European ceramic tile manufacturing from 2010 
onwards, the Xaar 1001 was rapidly adopted as the 
solution of choice for ceramic tile decoration in China, 
the largest producer and consumer of ceramic tiles 
with around half of the world’s volume. In the third 
quarter	of	2014	the	challenges	in	the	construction	
industry in China resulted in a step-down in demand 
from ceramic tile production. The ceramic tile sector 
r emains	the	most	significant	in	terms	of	curr ent	and	
short term revenue. Xaar‘s market leading position 
has been achieved through the success of Xaar 
1001/2 product family. Xaar’s current product portfolio, 
future roadmap and sector expertise provide a strong 
position for continuing leadership in the sector, 
including the development of inkjet into processes 
beyond the current decoration step such as glaze, 
structur e,	and	finishing	ef fects.	
In markets outside ceramics progress was generally 
disappointing in 2014. Future success is expected, but 
the sectors remain challenging in terms of technical 
r equir ements	and	end	user	acceptance.
Progress in Direct-to-Shape remains encouraging but 
revenue contribution in 2014 was relatively modest.
In order to develop new products and new technology 
successfully, and to sustain or grow sales into multiple end 
markets, we must constantly develop our capability in terms  
of	our	human	and	other	r esour ces,	specifically	both	our	R&D	
and manufacturing capacity and capability, and the structure 
of our organisation.
The success of our business depends on our people so we recruit 
only	the	best.	W e	of fer	competitive	salary	and	benefits	packages	
as	well	as	shar e	incentive	plans	and	our	employees	benefit	fr om	
extensive training and development opportunities. We aim to build 
long term relationships with all our employees by helping them grow 
and develop and by making Xaar a great place to work and a great 
Company to be involved with. 
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing facilities are located in Huntingdon, 
UK (5,000 m²) and Järfälla, Sweden (7,000 m²). Manufacturing 
is cleanroom based with 24/7 demands for complex facilities 
r equir ements	including	climate	contr ol,	gases	and	chemicals.	 
The cleanrooms contain islands of processing automation, with 
custom-made	or	specially	modified	pr ocessing	and	test	equipment.	
Operation is multi-shift and runs with small processing windows and 
micron scale tolerances. Production involves multiple non-reworkable 
pr ocessing	steps,	r esulting	in	a	highly	sensitive	cumulative	yield;	 
unit cost and throughput are in turn highly dependent upon yield.
In 2014 we completed the latest capacity expansion 
programme at our Huntingdon site. Xaar has now 
invested	£60	million	in	assets	and	pr oduction	facilities	
in Huntingdon since the plant opened in 2007.
In October 2014, following the step-down in demand 
from the ceramics sector, action was taken to 
reduce the cost base of the Company in order to 
pr otect	financial	performance	in	2015	and	beyond.	
Unfortunately	this	r esulted	in	160	r oles	acr oss	the	
business being made redundant, around 20% of  
the total workforce. 
Our state-of-the-art manufacturing 
facility in Huntingdon positions 
the Company well to execute its 
strategic objectives.
We continue to invest in our 
people, focussing on developing 
their talent and skills in order to 
fulfill	the	potential	of	the	Company .
Future success is expected 
in multiple markets outside of 
ceramics, but the challenge is 
always to meet the application 
r equir ements	and	win	wide	
customer acceptance.
The success of our business depends on  
our highly skilled workforce.
The markets and applications that use Xaar’s printheads can 
be diverse but can be grouped to have similar characteristics 
and	general	imaging	r equir ements.
Xaar’ s	pr oducts	ar e	designed	to	pr ovide	benefits	acr oss	multiple	
applications. This strategy means we can offer solutions across 
multiple	applications	thr ough	efficiency	in	development	and	
implementation. We also continuously enhance product performance 
which allows our OEMs to take advantage of upgrades with minimal 
changes at the system level.
The Xaar 1002, with its high resolution greyscale (variable drop size) 
and	TF	T echnology™	(fluid	r ecir culation),	ensur es	an	exceptional	
quality	of	print	in	one	single	pass	of	the	substrate	under	the	printhead,	
which	maximises	pr oductivity	and	delivers	significant	quality	and	cost	
advantages over traditional analogue methods in ceramics and other 
industrial applications. Although the Xaar 1002 is the market-leading 
printhead in the ceramics sector, it is also used for printing primary 
labels, decorative laminates and packaging. 
To date we have focussed on three main sectors: Industrial, which 
covers ceramics, decorative laminates and advanced/additive 
manufacturing;	Packaging,	which	includes	pr oduct	labelling,	Dir ect-
to-Shape (printing directly onto bottles and containers) and coding 
and	marking	(printing	bar	codes	and	data);	and	Graphic	Arts,	which	
includes wide-format graphics (typically outdoor advertising, posters 
and banners), commercial print, and varnishing. The wide-format 
graphics	sector	was	the	first	to	adopt	industrial	inkjet	and	is,	ther efor e,	
the most mature. The ceramics market has been moving into digital 
inkjet decoration over the last ten years. However, the pace of change 
accelerated	significantly	in	2009	following	the	launch	of	the	Xaar	1001	
in 2007.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Xaar plc • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • 15 14 • Annual Report and Accounts 2014 • Xaar plc
