 04 Sirius Real Estate Limited  /  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement 
For the year ended 31 March 2014
“ These results confirm the 
completion of our turnaround 
plan and a return to the 
dividend list with a commitment 
to pay out 65% of future 
recurring profits.”
Introduction
I am pleased to be able to present these results, which not 
only show further profit improvements, despite the disposal 
of a number of assets, but more importantly also represent a 
successful conclusion to the restructuring of the Company which 
has created a solid financial base from which it can now grow. 
For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group is able to report 
a recurring profit
*
 before tax of €11.3 million (2013: €8.7 million), 
a 30% increase on the prior year, and a net profit after tax 
of €28.9 million (2013: net loss of €30.3 million). 
Owing to the strength of the operating platform that we have 
developed to manage our asset class over the last few years, we 
have been able to access financing sources that have not only 
fulfilled the requirements for our existing portfolio, but also opened 
up options for future investment. During the period this process 
included successfully raising €6.5 million and €40.0 million in 
two separate equity placements and entering into three new 
debt facilities totalling €200 million. A strengthened capital 
structure, with LTV falling from 65% to 51% (excluding cash 
reserves), allowed the Company to secure some very competitive 
financing rates, whilst increasing our debt expiries to between 
January 2017 and July 2023, with an average expiry of 5.3 years. 
Following the second capital raising in December we have 
commenced a €9.0 million programme of earnings-enhancing 
capex improvements to the existing portfolio. In addition, we have 
progressed the non-core asset disposal programme. We have 
sold €21.2 million of land and non-core properties during the 
period and have two land and one non-core property sales 
notarised for €2.6 million. We have also two further non-core 
properties for sale and have identified further properties of 
approximately 100,000 sqm of surplus non-income producing 
land which can either be sold or developed depending on the 
level of returns. Funds raised from asset sales going forward 
will provide resources for our acquisition programme. We have 
already identified a good pipeline of potential acquisitions and 
are in advanced stages of negotiation over two business parks 
for €19 million.
º  The Company has continued to operate successfully 
in an improving market. Rental income continues 
to increase, service charge cost recoveries have 
improved and overheads have again been reduced.
º  During the period the Company completed the  
long-term refinancing of its assets.
º  The Board is pleased to recommence the payment 
of a regular dividend, starting with a final dividend 
of 0.30c per share for the period.
In summary Annual Report and Accounts 2014  /  Sirius Real Estate Limited 05
1
Strategic report
2
Governance
3
Financial statements
Alongside this, the Company has continued to operate 
successfully in an improving market. Rental income continues 
to increase, service charge cost recoveries have improved and 
overheads have again been reduced. Combined with the impact 
of favourable bank interest rates secured during the period, 
recurring profits increased by 30%. Consequently, the Board 
is pleased to recommence the payment of a regular dividend, 
starting with the payment of a final dividend of 0.30c per share 
for the period. Whilst only a modest payment at this stage, 
the 0.30c dividend declared represents 65% of the recurring 
profits
*
 after tax for the March 2014 quarter, following the capital 
raising completed in December 2013. We are pleased to report 
that it is the Board’s intention to pay a dividend equal to 65% 
of the recurring profits
*
 after tax in respect of each financial 
year of the Group going forward. It is intended that dividends 
will be paid on a semi-annual basis and offered to shareholders 
in cash or scrip form.
*
  Recurring profits are profits before property revaluation, change in fair value 
of derivative financial instruments and non-recurring costs
Financial results
T otal income for the year was €45.1 million (2013: €46.1 million) 
which includes €1.7 million received by way of a surrender premium 
(2013: €1.0 million) paid to the Company for the reduction of 
an existing lease term at one of our Munich sites. The demand 
for our space in Munich is strong so we are confident of replacing 
this tenant shortly after it moves out in 2016, rather than 2018 as 
under the original agreement. As at 31 March 2014, the annualised 
gross rent roll of the entire portfolio increased to €41.5 million 
(2013: €41.4 million
*
), a good performance considering we 
experienced the last of the planned Siemens move-outs in July, 
along with three other notable significant move-outs. Despite the 
tough economic backdrop and the scheduled Siemens vacations, 
whereby it has given back 83,879 sqm over four years, we have 
been able to grow our rental income every year over this period, 
confirming the demand for our workspace and our ability to 
re-let space. Siemens, the only notable tenant with a known 
scheduled space reduction programme, remains a large tenant 
but now represents only 3.5% of our rent roll in March 2014 
compared to 15.5% in March 2010.
*
 Adjusted for disposals
Earnings per share amounted to 7.31c (2013: loss per share 
of 9.52c) while adjusted earnings per share excluding property 
revaluation, change in fair value of derivative financial instruments 
and non-recurring costs amounted to 2.73c (2013: 2.66c). This 
slight increase in adjusted earnings per share was achieved despite 
the number of ordinary shares in issue increasing to 518,900,307 
(2013: 317,578,176) following the equity placings in 2013 and 
the disposal of three business parks in the period. 
Portfolio valuation
The existing portfolio was independently valued at €448.7 million 
by Cushman & Wakefield LLP at the year end (31 March 2013: 
€421.7 million
*
). The valuation represents a 6.4%
*
 increase 
on the prior year and a 4.4%
*
 increase on the valuation from 
September 2013. This is the second valuation in succession 
where values have increased. 
The Company has 
continued to operate 
successfully in an 
improving market
The core portfolio comprises 27 of the 30 assets, valued at 
€436.2 million with an average gross yield of 9.2% (2013: 9.9%). 
The average capital value per sqm is €445.6 (2013: €417.4
*
) 
even though these assets operate with an occupancy of only 
80% (2013: 81%). An intensive capex programme that focuses 
on approximately 50% of the vacant space of these assets, 
currently either unlettable or significantly under-rented, has 
commenced during the period. This capital expenditure is 
expected to produce a high return on investment, both in 
terms of income and value accretion.
*
 Adjusted for disposals
Funding
During the period the Company completed the long-term 
refinancing of its assets. The Group has, since our first facility 
expired in October 2012, completed four new debt facilities 
totalling €228 million, with debt expiries ranging between 
January 2017 and July 2023 and an average unexpired term 
of 5.3 years. The key points of the financing are described 
in the table below:
October 2012 March 2014
Number of assets 37 30
Value of assets €474m €448m
Bank loans outstanding €(286)m €(226)m
LTV (excluding cash reserves) 60% 51%
Annual interest €14.10m €10.88m
Weighted average interest rate 5.3% 4.7%
Weighted average debt expiry 0.5 years 5.3 years
With the refinancing successfully completed, a sustainable 
capital structure established and new lending sources created, 
the Company has a number of options for its future financing 
requirements and a number of lenders have expressed interest 
in financing future acquisitions. There is a high yield differential 
between the properties we own or look to acquire and the rates 
at which we can finance them in the current environment, 
giving us confidence that we can grow our income through 
accretive acquisitions.  06 Sirius Real Estate Limited  /  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s statement continued
EGM and Board changes
Following the passing of the resolutions at the EGM held on 
1 May 2014, the Company has relocated its tax residence from 
Guernsey to the United Kingdom. Although the Company will 
continue to be a limited company registered in Guernsey, the 
migration in tax residence to the UK enables the Company to 
take advantage of recent reforms of the UK tax regime and 
allow future Board appointments to be made irrespective 
of their residence. Migration will also allow the Company 
to hold Board and shareholder meetings in the UK.
The Board also announced on 1 May 2014 the appointment 
of Andrew Coombs as Chief Executive Officer and Alistair Marks 
as Chief Financial Officer to the Board of the Company with 
immediate effect. Andrew and Alistair have for the past 
four and seven years respectively been Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company’ s property management 
subsidiary, Sirius Facilities GmbH. I am delighted to welcome 
them to the Board. 
At the same time, Ian Clarke stepped down from the Board as 
a Guernsey-based Non-executive Director of the Company but 
will take up a position as a director of a new Guernsey subsidiary 
of Sirius being formed as part of the migration. I would like to 
thank Ian for his significant contribution to the Company over 
the last three years. He was a valued member of the Sirius 
Board and I look forward to our new relationship with him 
as director of our new subsidiary. The Board has commenced 
a search for a replacement Non-executive Director.
Outlook
Demand for Sirius’ products across our offerings, both for 
conventional space and the flexible products, is strong and the 
German economy remains robust. We are confident that the 
business will continue to move forward and that the initiatives 
we have in place will support further increases in income and 
profitability which in turn will underpin our ability to increase 
returns to shareholders.
In addition to the organic growth opportunities, we have 
identified a number of attractive core acquisitions with the 
potential to generate excellent income and capital returns 
for the Group. The experience and knowledge gained over the 
last seven years, coupled with the Company’s market-leading 
position as operators of multi-tenanted business parks across 
Germany, make it well placed to pursue these opportunities. 
Robert Sinclair
Chairman
Net asset value
The adjusted net asset value (NAV) per share, which excludes the 
provisions for deferred tax and derivative financial instruments, 
was 44.3c as at 31 March 2014 (31 March 2013: 48.4c). 
The movement in adjusted NAV per share in the period can 
be reconciled as follows:
Opening adjusted net asset value per share 48.4c
Impact of equity capital raisings and issues 
during the year (10.1)c
Impact of valuations/disposals 3.8c
Impact of retained profits 2.2c
Closing adjusted net asset value per share 44.3c
Accordingly, excluding the impact of the equity capital raisings, 
the NAV per share has increased by 15.7% in the period.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommence the payment of a regular 
dividend, starting with a final dividend of 0.30c per share for the 
period. The final dividend will be paid on 22 August 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 25 July 2014. The ex-dividend 
date will be 23 July 2014. Whilst only a modest payment at this 
stage, the 0.30c dividend represents 65% of the recurring profits
** 
after tax for the March 2014 quarter, following the capital raising 
completed in December. The Board has set a policy to pay a 
dividend equal to 65% of the recurring profits
**
 after tax in respect 
of each financial year of the Group going forward. It is intended 
that dividends will be paid on a semi-annual basis and offered 
to shareholders in cash or scrip form. 
**
  Recurring profits are profits after tax and before property revaluation, change 
in fair value of derivative financial instruments and non-recurring costs
Capital structure
We have significantly de-risked the capital structure of the 
business, with all debt refinanced for a weighted average term 
to expiry of 5.3 years and a reduction in the loan to value to 
50.9%, excluding cash reserves. We have already seen a reduction 
in our cost of debt as a result of this improvement but we believe 
there is scope to reduce both our interest cost and amortisation 
requirements further over time. We believe the business should 
be managed with a capital structure robust enough to sustain all 
market conditions, thereby reducing the risk for our shareholders. 
To this end we believe it is appropriate to continue strengthening 
the balance sheet and the Board has set a target loan to value 
of 40% to be achieved over the next two years. This target will 
be achieved through improvements in the value of our estate 
due to income growth, asset management initiatives and capital 
expenditure, as well as contractual debt amortisation and 
acquisitions on a lower loan to value. Our objective is not to 
maximise income through high leverage but to find the appropriate 
balance of risk and return. We believe these actions will result 
in a significantly reduced cost of capital for the business in 
future years, while reducing the risk for our shareholders and 
leaving the Company in a stronger position to exploit opportunities 
throughout different economic and property cycles.
