 07
1
Strategic report
2
Governance
3
Financial statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  /  Sirius Real Estate Limited
“ We believe that as asset 
managers of multi-tenant, 
mixed-use, workspace across 
Germany we have created a 
substantial operating platform 
that has enabled us to 
increase profitability and 
open up the debt markets.” 
Chief Executive’s report
Introduction
The ultimate measure of successful asset management lies 
in the total returns generated by the Company through both 
increased income returns and improvement in capital values. 
During the financial year, we saw a 30% increase in recurring 
pre-tax earnings, building upon the significant progress made 
the year before. Capital returns also turned positive this year, 
resulting in a 15.7% improvement in net asset value per share, 
excluding the impact of the capital raisings in the period. 
Behind this continued improvement in returns have been 
the benefits of the asset and property management initiatives 
developed over the last five years. Throughout this time we 
have reduced the portfolio from 38 business parks to 30, 
and in so doing reducing total income returns, but improving 
profitability and the quality of income, while providing a much 
stronger base from which to grow. Within the core portfolio 
there remains significant scope for organic improvement and it 
is the intention of the Company to realise this potential, as well 
as to make attractive selective acquisitions that fit within the 
Sirius business model and which we will be able to exploit 
through our existing management platform. The business will 
benefit from scale advantages of a larger portfolio, as our fixed 
overhead cost base can be spread over a larger estate.
We continue to use the long-term stable income we receive 
from our core, conventional anchor tenants as a platform to 
generate higher yielding income from the short-term flexible 
space and it is the balance between the two that we seek 
to optimise. As at 31 March 2014, our core anchor tenant 
base comprises 64 tenants generating 62% of the rent roll. 
Conversely only 60,639 sqm (7% of total space) has been 
converted to our high yielding flexible products such as 
Smartspace and Flexilager. We believe that there is demand to 
create more of this high yielding space from areas which are 
currently unlettable within the core portfolio and much of the 
capex investment programme outlined below focuses on this 
element of the estate. The smaller tenants that occupy these 
products and some of our more conventional offerings are 
drawn from Germany’s large SME sector, from which we 
continue to experience robust demand for space.
º  A 30% increase in recurring pre-tax earnings, building 
upon the significant progress made the year before.
º  We believe that there is demand to create more 
high yielding space from areas which are currently 
unlettable within the core portfolio. The capex 
required to convert this space, is around €9.0 million.
º  During the period under review, the Company sold 
further land and non-core properties totalling €21.2m 
and we have identified other non-core business parks 
for disposal.
In summary 08 Sirius Real Estate Limited  /  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s report continued
The amount of space that is able to be let without investment is 
approximately 72,000 sqm (7.7% of total space) and has an ERV of 
around €3.7m. We have identified around 100,000 sqm of space 
which cannot be let to its full potential without investment of which 
around 30% requires light investment and 70% full refurbishment. 
The capex required to convert this space, as part of our latest 
development initiative, is around €9.0 million and is expected to 
create high quality lettable space with an ERV of around €5.0 million. 
Bearing in mind that this space in its current condition has a very 
low and in most cases a zero ERV , the returns from both an income 
and valuation perspective are compelling. We use our extensive 
sales and marketing databases and experiences to analyse the 
demand fully for any space before we convert, so that investments 
are made in a calculated and measured way rather than 
speculatively. We plan on funding this capex from operational 
cash flow and the remaining proceeds of the equity raises in 2013 
and have already commenced a significant amount of the 
expenditure. We expect to have the capex invested within two years 
and the full impact of the returns coming through soon thereafter.
Non-core disposals
During the period under review, the Company sold further land and 
non-core properties totalling €21.2m and we have identified other 
non-core business parks for disposal. Since the disposal programme 
began, the Company has disposed of €38.6m of non-core property 
and land that was contributing €3.2m of net operating income. 
One non-core property and two land sales have been notarised 
for sale for €2.6m and a further two non-core properties are 
currently being marketed for sale. We expect the non-core 
disposals to be completed over the next 18 months. In addition, 
we have identified 100,000 sqm of non-income producing 
surplus land which can be either sold or developed and any 
proceeds can be used for reinvestment into the acquisition 
programme. Land disposals would obviously only be done 
where the returns and demand for the other investment 
opportunities outweigh those for developing the surplus land.
Acquisitions
The growth strategy of the Company includes the acquisition 
of core assets to replace the non-core assets that have been 
disposed of over the last few years. There are significant 
benefits to be had from adding good income producing 
properties which we can finance at currently attractive rates 
and which will not require any increase in our overhead costs 
to manage, given our well established management platform. 
A number of suitable properties have been identified which 
can be purchased at attractive yields, thereby being accretive 
to cash flow and earnings. We are also focusing our efforts 
on enhancing the geographical mix of the portfolio to allow us 
to benefit from the synergies of having multiple locations close 
together whilst also focusing on the strongest markets for our 
product. Two business parks which can be purchased for around 
€19 million are at advanced stages of negotiation and we have 
also identified a number of other potential acquisition opportunities.
The management team 
is focused on ensuring 
that the Group benefits 
from our ongoing asset 
management initiatives, 
capital expenditure 
programme and 
attractive acquisitions
Introduction continued
To this end, the Company continues to evolve its product offering 
which is one of the factors that allows us to push rental rates 
constantly higher and differentiates Sirius from its competitors. 
The Smartspace ranges of Smartspace Büro, Smartspace Lager 
and Smartspace Workbox continue to be highly popular with 
our SME customers, where at the more mature sites occupancy 
consistently exceeds 90% at rental rates of more than €7 per sqm, 
significantly higher than the average across our estate. We have 
now converted 30,073 sqm to Smartspace and are looking 
to expand this materially over the next twelve to 18 months. 
Flexilager is the cheaper storage offering which is created within 
dead space for a very low investment and is currently achieving in 
excess of €4 per sqm. Flexilager is now in operation on 30,567 sqm 
and offers a low cost solution for businesses and individuals 
already on site and coming from outside. Conferencing is proving 
to be a very valuable product. Not only have we achieved on 
average €8 per sqm on the 5,013 sqm that has been converted 
so far, but having these facilities available on site is proving to be a 
great selling point for the other products as well as providing 
very useful footfall onto our business parks.
We believe that as asset managers of multi-tenant, mixed-use, 
workspace across Germany we have created a substantial operating 
platform that has enabled us to increase profitability and open 
up the debt markets, during an economic period which has 
been very challenging for anyone dealing with non-prime assets. 
This competitive advantage has allowed us to turn around the 
performance and stabilise the business and will be the catalyst 
for future growth. 
Capex investment programme
This is the largest opportunity and our most important initiative for 
organic growth. Our core portfolio of 27 assets has a net lettable 
area of 930,765 sqm of which currently 188,111 sqm is vacant.  09
1
Strategic report
2
Governance
3
Financial statements
Annual Report and Accounts 2014  /  Sirius Real Estate Limited
Lettings and marketing 
The strength of the Sirius operating platform removes many 
of the risks typically associated with our asset class, with the 
internal marketing and lettings systems at the forefront of this. 
Our online presence is key to our ability to manage the national 
portfolio of circa 320 buildings, as 80% of new tenants contact 
us through our website or internet portals. Our approach to 
maintaining our online presence is sophisticated, aimed at ensuring 
the Sirius brand and products are visible to potential customers 
across a large number of websites used by our customers. 
Having achieved an average enquiry rate of over 1,000 
enquires per month for some time now, our focus is not as 
much on increasing enquires but rather increasing the quality 
of the enquiries and therefore the conversion rate.
Conversion is a constant focus for the lettings teams across 
each business park. The sales process we use and introduction 
in our marketing suites that each new prospective tenant is 
given are consistent throughout our business and we strive 
to provide a very different experience to that of any of our 
competitors. This is certainly reflected in our high conversion 
rate of customers once they have visited a site. Part of our 
success is our ability to tailor solutions to meet the needs 
of nearly every customer given the wide variety of space 
and flexibility of formats we can offer. In the period, average 
enquiries were 1,046 per month, viewings 524 per month 
and sales 115 per month, an increase of 1%, 10% and 7% 
respectively on the prior year and demonstrating a strong 
sales to enquiries conversion rate of 11%.
New lettings and move-outs
As at 31 March 2014 the Company’s total portfolio had an 
occupancy rate of 76% (31 March 2013: 76%
*
), while the 
average in-place rent per sqm was €4.48 per sqm (2013: €4.42
*
).
During the period under review, Sirius generated new lettings 
of 113,784 sqm at €5.16 per sqm (2013: 107,348
*
 sqm at 
€5.29
*
 per sqm) and we saw move-outs of 112,982 sqm at 
€4.42 per sqm in the period compared to 100,956
*
 sqm at 
€4.28
*
 per sqm in the previous year. The move-outs include 
thescheduled 21,674 sqm vacation of Siemens at our Hanover and 
Nuremburg sites as well as 10,736 sqm of unexpected move-outs 
due to insolvency. As has been the case consistently over the 
last few years, regardless of the level of move-outs, we have been 
increase rental income each year. Given that there are no more 
scheduled Siemens move-outs, Siemens being the only notable 
tenant with a known space reduction programme, and that the 
economic outlook for Germany remains positive, we are hopeful 
that the level of move-outs going forward will be reduced. 
Completed the sale of Rostock Goethestrasse for €0.975 million.
August 2013
Completed the sale of Regensburg and Karlsruhe 
for €9.55 million.
Portfolio valuation increased by 1.9%.
September 2013
RBS loan facility repaid in full.
December 2013
Completed the sale of a land package in Dusseldorf for 
€4.2 milllion and notarised the sale of another land package 
in Bremen for €2.1 million.
February 2014
Completion of the Company’s refinancing programme. 
The Group has completed four new debt facilities totalling 
€227 million in the last 15 months.
March 2014 10 Sirius Real Estate Limited  /  Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s report continued
New lettings and move-outs continued
We now have most of our tenants on modern, high quality 
leases, with more appropriate rental rates and improved 
recovery clauses and we expect the number of terminations 
initiated by us to reduce accordingly.
Combined with the greater lettings opportunities being 
created by our investment programme, we are looking forward 
to further improvements in both occupancy and passing rents 
over the next few years. Product mix will play a significant 
part in the improvement as our focus is to create more of the 
high yielding premium Smartspace products which is where 
we are experiencing encouraging demand and not enough 
product, as well as filling otherwise dead space with our low 
cost Flexilager storage offering.
*
 Adjusted for disposals
Operational efficiencies
The reduction of Group overheads and the improved recovery 
of service charge costs have been the single biggest driver of 
the increased profitability of the Group over the last four years 
and there remains further scope for improvement going forward. 
In the year under review we saw further improvements in this 
area of approximately €0.6 million. We are forecasting a recovery 
of approximately 81% of the service charge costs on an average 
occupancy during the year of 75%. Considering that our service 
charge costs are close to €40 million and most companies that 
operate multi-tenant, mixed-use parks like ours rarely achieve 
recovery percentages at the occupancy level, this part of the 
business is a big asset for the Company. 
Portfolio analysis
The table below shows the key details of the core portfolio 
of 27 assets and the three assets that are for sale. The core 
portfolio is currently valued on a gross yield of 9.2% and a 
capital value of €445.6 per sqm.
Appointment of Andrew Coombs as Chief Executive Officer 
and Alistair Marks as Chief Financial Officer of the Company. 
Ian Clarke stepped down from the Board.
Migration of tax residence of Sirius Real Estate Limited from 
Guernsey to the United Kingdom.
May 2014
The year ahead
We shall continue to improve at the operational level during the 
year and I would like to thank the management team and all 
the staff for their tremendous efforts this year. I am very optimistic 
that we can meet our targets for the new financial year and 
the management team is focused on ensuring that the Group 
benefits from our ongoing asset management initiatives, as 
well as those of the capital expenditure programme and the 
attractive acquisitions we are expecting to secure.
Andrew Coombs
Chief Executive Officer
Book value Rent roll Total sqm Occ Rate per sqm
Core assets €434.3m €40.3m 0.93m
^
79.8% €4.52
Non-core assets for disposal €9.4m
*
€1.2m 0.09m
^
33.4% €3.41
Total €443.7m €41.5m 1.02m 75.7% €4.48
*
 One non-core asset which is valued as a development site has been written down to offers received. All other assets have book value equal to valuation
^
 Excludes technical space
