 2014 saw excellent progress in our UK 
business, where the Contractual Services 
contract base grew by 9.9 per cent, as  
we won a number of significant bids and 
expanded our customer base. In Germany, 
our focus on the long term and integrating 
processes into our Group model delivered 
encouraging progress, and in France we were 
uncompetitive and undertook a restructuring 
programme in the second half of the year  
to address this. Nevertheless, we delivered  
solid financial results at a Group level,  
whilst making appropriate investments in  
our services offerings and risk management.
We are here to enable users of IT and  
support Chief Information Officers (‘CIOs’)  
in their increasingly demanding tasks. To  
that end we have, and will continue to, invest 
in our service capability, mobile platform 
management, cloud and security capabilities.
We seek continued improvement in  
our financial performance in 2015, as  
we continue on our long haul journey.  
Our ambition is to become Europe’s  
preferred IT services provider. As with  
all great ambitions it should always be 
tantalisingly close, but we are determined 
never to declare victory in its pursuit.
Greg Lock
Chairman
After the year closed, we announced the  
sale of our recycling business R.D. Trading 
Limited, and an agreement to continue  
using its services under new ownership.  
The proceeds of that sale and our healthy 
cash generation in 2014 have allowed us to 
propose and deliver a return of £100 million 
to shareholders, just 18 months or so after 
returning £75 million. We will continue to 
manage this enterprise, which has no debt, 
with a relentless focus on working capital 
improvement and winning business. We  
owe you, our shareholders, customers  
and employees no less. I thank all three 
constituents for your faith, business,  
hard work and talent respectively. 
Greg Lock
Chairman
11 March 2015
Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 
3
Letter from the Chairman
A solid  
 p e rf o r ma n c e
