 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SUMMARY
 - Business re-organised and placed 
under a single brand delivering 
£1.4m annualised cost base saving
 - Performance in first quarter 2017 in 
line with management expectations
 - Greater confidence in forward 
order book
The Company made significant progress in 
a number of areas during what turned out to 
be an otherwise challenging year. 
The main highlights came through towards 
the latter part of the year. Our Fleet Systems 
segment secured long-term framework renewals 
with two major customers: First UK Bus for 
5 years and Arriva UK Bus for 2 years with a 
customer option to extend for a further year. 
In addition there were important contract 
wins: a project of c. £1m to upgrade CCTV 
and associated equipment for a large 
Antipodean bus operation; and a landmark 
development for OF J Connections Gatwick 
Airport to provide integrated real-time 
passenger information and connected bus 
systems with a value of another c. £1m, 
including ongoing support.
The Gatwick contract is important because 
it is the first example of 21
st
 Century combining 
its Fleet Systems and Passenger Systems 
expertise to design an innovative solution 
that drives real benefits to our customers as 
they in turn enhance the travel experience 
for their passengers. 
As reported in the Interim Results the Board 
anticipated that the Group’s full year revenue 
would be lower than last year resulting in a 
significant loss for the full year ending 
31 December 2016. 
In summary we identified two areas 
of concern:
 - The level of new business in Passenger 
Systems had fallen below our expectations 
and the broadly acceptable H1 performance 
was being achieved at the cost of depleting 
its order book. 
 - Whilst invoicing in H1 for the Rail section 
of Fleet Systems was acceptable, the order 
book was eroding to a level where H2 
success was reliant on winning and 
delivering one of the major projects 
that was being bid on.
The actions we undertook to mitigate 
these areas of concern are set out in our 
Strategic Report.
Trading results
Group results for the year ended 
31 December 2016 show an underlying loss 
before tax of £1,397,000 (2015: underlying 
profit of £52,000). This is mainly attributable to 
sales volumes being lower than management 
expectations in both segments, leading to 
a £0.6m reduction in Passenger Systems 
margins in H2 and a £0.7m reduction in rail 
margins across the year in Fleet Systems. 
This was at the higher end of expectations 
and is explained in detail in the trading results 
analysis section of the Strategic Report. 
Significant cost base and organisational 
changes have taken place to ensure the 
business returns to a cash generative 
and profitable operation.
The effect of share-based payments, one-off 
legal costs and reorganisation costs resulted 
in a loss before tax of £2.3m (2015: loss of 
£4.8m after also charging acquisition and 
one-off legal costs). The basic loss per share 
is 2.47p (2015: 5.17p).
The cost base reduction and restructuring is 
now nearing completion, generating savings 
of c. £1.4m on an annualised basis. The 
programme accelerated the consolidation 
of our operations and was completed whilst 
ensuring that the changes did not impact 
our ability to maintain the high level 24/7 
service and support required by our customers.
To support the businesses’ working capital 
requirements, the Company raised £300k of 
debt financing and opened a £400k invoice 
discounting facility. The debt financing was 
provided by Directors, senior management 
and shareholders and, as a further commitment 
to ensuring the success of the business, a 
number of Directors and senior management 
significantly reduced their remuneration.
“   The Company made 
significant progress in 
what was a challenging year. 
We have undertaken a major 
reorganisation and now have 
the platform needed to 
build sales.”
 Mark Elliot
 Non-executive Chairman
4 21
st
 Century Technology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Overview People
We remain fortunate to have many talented 
and loyal staff in the 21
st
 Century Group and 
it has been particularly commendable how 
everybody has dealt with the large-scale 
changes across 2016. They have embraced 
the centralisation of shared services for 
logistics, purchasing and finance and 
managed the associated building moves: 
downsizing to serviced offices in Croydon, 
expanding in Coventry to handle all Group 
inventory and the new head office in 
Ashby-de-la-Zouch. 
Our technically agile development teams 
have taken a major leap forward under the 
leadership and guidance of Dr Andy Houghton, 
our Group CTO, who was appointed in 
January 2016. 
We welcome Nick Lowe to the Board as 
CFO and look forward to working with him. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
Glenn Robinson for the contribution and 
support he has made in the three and a 
half years on the Board in that role.
I would like to pass on my sincere thanks and 
that of the Board to everybody involved as we 
build a more capable and successful business.
Outlook
We are continuing to transform 21
st 
Century 
from a business that provides standalone, 
on-vehicle CCTV and IT sub-systems 
integration towards one that provides fully 
connected systems on and off vehicles in 
towns and cities and in the transport 
network’s bus and rail stations. 
We are diversifying our customer base, 
accessing new markets and delivering 
innovative solutions based on our own 
technologies, software and applications. Our 
first in-house developed product, marketed 
under the Journeo brand name, is entering 
fleet service this year, combining diagnostic 
and communications management software 
into a cloud-based web service. 
We now have the platform and capabilities 
needed to build sales into our main customer 
segments and extend into related or adjacent 
markets over the coming years. Management 
expect that this will lead the Group to a 
return to profitability. Performance in the 
first quarter of 2017 was in line with 
management expectations.
Following the Group’s Annual General 
Meeting, the CEO, Russ Singleton, will review 
these areas in more detail and a copy of his 
presentation will be added to our website.
Mark Elliott
Non-executive Chairman
25 May 2017
Trading results
2016
£’m
2015
£’m
Revenue 11.6 12.2
Gross profit 4.7 5.5
Gross profit percentage 41% 45%
Other income 0.1 —
Underlying administrative expenses (6.2) (5.4)
Underlying (loss)/profit (1.4) 0.1
Share-based payments (0.3) (0.3)
Reorganisation costs (0.5) (0.1)
One-off legal costs and acquisition costs (0.0) (0.2)
Total administrative expenses (7.0) (6.0)
Operating loss before impairment (2.3) (0.5)
Goodwill impairment 0.0 (0.0)
Operating loss (2.3) (4.8)
Taxation 0.0 (0.0)
Loss after taxation (2.3) (4.8)
Pence Pence
Basic loss per share (2.47) (5.17)
Overview Strategic report Governance
21
st
 Century Technology plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 5
Financial statements
