 Chief Executive’s statement
“With another very good set of results behind us, a detailed
strategy for the future, and confidence high within the
organisation, we remain determined to accelerate the
development of 3i to deliver further shareholder value.”
Philip Yea
Chief Executive
10 May 2006
06 3i Report and accounts 2006      I am pleased to report a very good set of full year financial results
and further progress in implementing the plans we set for the
business over the past 18 months. In particular, these results
provide tangible evidence of the continued success of our Buyout
business and the benefits of the recent strategic changes made
to the models for our Growth Capital and Venture Capital
business lines.
Financing markets continue to be favourable, with the private
equity markets giving high valuations to good assets. These
conditions have provided the opportunity for us to achieve a
record level of realisations and also realised profits. All of our
business lines have been active sellers into these markets. 
Yet, at the same time, each of our three core business lines has
increased its level of new investment. The most notable increase
was within the Growth Capital business, reflecting its focus on
larger deal sizes when compared to a year ago and the growing
importance of Asia within our strategy.
The rate of growth in private equity markets over the last 
decade has, for many people, raised genuine questions as to 
the sustainability of returns and the relative advantages of 
this ownership model as the asset class becomes more
mainstream. We continue to believe that there is more than
ample opportunity and that the key issue for the Group is to
leverage its competitive advantage in those particular markets
which provide greatest returns over the mid term. 
Our teams in Asia have been strengthened, our teams in the 
US are being reinforced and, more indirectly, we have made 
a number of investments in selected funds which can bring
exposure to specific geographies or asset classes that we cannot
achieve on our own.
We have recently completed a comprehensive strategic review 
of both our current and future business areas within the private
equity field and, where appropriate, will continue to use our
balance sheet to develop new business lines, and our 
knowledge-sharing culture and market access to attract new
people to join us.
As part of this review, we have also looked in detail at the
opportunities and structure of each of our current business lines.
We have concluded that we should increase the mix of late-stage
investment within our Venture Capital business, an area which
particularly plays to our international differentiation. As a result of
this change we have amended our cash-to-cash IRR target for
this business line to 25%, with vintage year volatility of plus or
minus 15%. We have also confirmed the opportunity for both
this business and our Growth Capital business within the US, and
are building our local teams accordingly.
I am very pleased with the further steps we have taken on our
people agenda.
In a rapidly growing industry where experience is critical and
personal compensation at the most senior levels is performance
related and uncapped, it is critical to ensure that both the
financial and non-financial elements of our people proposition are
as competitive as they can be. T o supplement the carry schemes
which we have implemented across our business lines, we have
also introduced market aligned co-investment schemes whereby
members of our investing team make personal investments
alongside 3i and third-party investors’ capital.
We have also made further changes to our internal organisation
to ensure that we give our investing teams maximum flexibility to
operate as self-standing partnerships with the same operational
flexibility as their competitors, yet enable them to be both the
beneficiaries of and contributors to the network of knowledge
sharing that differentiates 3i from most firms within our field.
Our Business review which follows, contains a number of
examples showing this culture of cross-geography cross-
business line co-operation at its very best.
T o reflect the ambitious nature of our agenda, we have also
created a Group Partnership, which brings together those senior
business leaders who can make the broadest contribution to the
further development and expansion of the firm.
The recent move of our London office to more modern premises
has had a significant impact in terms of communications and
produced an enhanced experience for visitors to 3i, as well as an
improved working environment. 
We have also reviewed our capital requirements over the coming
period and, notwithstanding the significant level of opportunity
we have identified, we believe it is appropriate to make a further
return of cash to shareholders. Although accounting for the
equity option within the Convertible Bond issued in 2003 has,
under IFRS, reduced reported profits (and will continue to do 
so if we are successful in delivering shareholder value through an
increase in the share price), the flexibility to satisfy the Bond
redemption in 2008 in either cash or shares provides a significant
equity cushion should realisation markets slow for any reason.
Markets remain favourable and, although we expect our levels 
of realisations in the new financial year to be below last year’s
exceptional levels, we expect to increase our level of investment
again if the present economic conditions continue.
With another very good set of results behind us, a detailed
strategy for the future, and confidence high within the
organisation, we remain determined to accelerate the
development of 3i to deliver further shareholder value.
Chief Executive’s statement
3i Report and accounts 2006     Chief Executive’s statement 07
