 Chief Executive’ s statement 
My role as Chief Executive is to deliver 
performance from the present business 
while building for the future. 
I am pleased to report a strong 
set of results and good progress in the 
acceleration of 3i’s development as a 
truly international private equity firm. 
Total return for the year was 15.9% on 
restated opening shareholders’ funds. 
Both Buyouts and Growth Capital 
performed well, with gross portfolio 
returns of 22% and 24% respectively, 
and Venture Capital showed an improved 
performance with a gross return for the 
year of 11%. 
Although, during the year, 
investment conditions were competitive 
for Buyouts, with increased funds flowing 
into European private equity and the 
high availability of debt, our teams 
invested £532 million, of which 
£338 million was from 3i’s own 
resources. Growth Capital had a 
slower year in terms of the amount of 
investment (£263 million) but the 
pipeline going forward is encouraging. 
Our Venture Capital business continues 
to be selective and disciplined in its 
investment approach and invested 
£143 million. 
A strong set of results and good 
progress in the acceleration 
of 3i’ s development as a truly 
international private equity firm 
Realisation proceeds were £1.3 billion 
and these were generated at good uplifts 
to carrying value. The portfolio performed 
well and health remains sound, reflecting 
both improved investment processes and 
the relatively benign economic backdrop. 
To assist understanding of our 
current business model, we have 
decided to report separately the returns 
from our SMI portfolio which, in fact, has 
been run by a dedicated team since 
2001. This team continues to make 
excellent progress in realising value from 
this part of the portfolio. 
At the time of our interims in 
November, I spoke of the opportunities 
I saw for the Group to continue to 
improve our returns but also to increase 
the level of our investment. In view of the 
opportunities within our Growth Capital 
business to invest at a larger deal size, 
which quite often involves investing in 
companies with cross-border ambitions, 
we have decided to operate this 
business line on a more integrated 
international basis. 
We are accelerating the 
development of our Asian business 
by opening an office in Shanghai 
and starting the recruitment of a high 
quality team to develop a business in 
India. We are also actively building 
relationships to access the market for 
infrastructure investment in the UK and 
the rest of Europe. These steps are the 
prelude to achieving a higher level of 
investment over the next few years 
without diluting our returns. 
3i Report and accounts 2005 
06 Our vision: 
to be the private equity firm of choice 
Over the following pages we explain how we are working to achieve this. 
In his new role as Head of Group 
Markets, Chris Rowlands has taken a 
number of important steps to improve 
the agility with which we bring our 
resources to bear in the market. 
Our central sector group of 
industrialists has been strengthened to 
support the greater emphasis being given 
to sector specialisation in the origination 
of investments. We have also taken 
specific opportunities to add to the 
quality of our existing teams by bringing 
in fresh, relevant experience from outside, 
including Managing Directors for our 
German speaking and Indian businesses 
and our Group Marketing Director. 
The creation of partnership style 
structures within each of our business 
lines has been supported in recent years 
by the introduction of carried interest 
schemes. These reward our teams for 
successful realisations. The continued 
success of our business line model within 
our international network is critically 
dependent upon the quality of our people 
and how well we deliver partnership 
models across the Group as a whole. 
Denise Collis, who joined our Executive 
Committee as Group Human Resources 
Director in November, is having a major 
impact on how we further improve our 
employment proposition and progress 
the development of our people to deliver 
a true culture of partnership across the 
Group as a whole. 
As we develop our resources in new 
markets, we anticipate a modest 
increase in our cost base but, over the 
medium term, would expect our costs 
as a proportion of our gross returns 
to decline. 
Following Michael Queen’ s move 
from Finance Director to head up our 
Growth Capital business, and the 
appointment of Simon Ball as his 
successor, the announcement in January 
that Jo Taylor would succeed Rod Perry 
in heading our Venture business has 
completed the series of changes required 
to implement our immediate plans. Rod 
has made a major contribution to the 
Group in this and other roles and I have 
asked him to continue his association 
with us by heading up an international 
advisory board for our Venture business. 
At the interims, we took the step 
of making public the gross cash to cash 
returns that we are targeting for each 
of our business lines, as well as the 
volatilities that we expect to experience 
over given time periods (page 78). At the 
mid-point of these ranges and with an 
appropriate level of leverage to our equity 
base, we would expect to achieve an 
average return on equity of 20%. 
The good returns we are 
achieving, and particularly the high 
level of realisation proceeds we have 
generated over the past two years, have 
given rise to a higher level of financial 
resources than we can profitably reinvest 
in the near term. By reference to the level 
of gearing we believe is appropriate for 
the business and, having reviewed our 
medium-term projections of cash flows, 
we have decided to take immediate 
steps to return capital to shareholders. 
Although we intend to increase the 
amounts we invest, particularly through 
accelerating investment in growth 
capital opportunities and expanding our 
business lines and geographic footprint, 
we are committed to maintaining financial 
efficiency by returning cash when it is 
surplus to our investment needs. 
Our strategic opportunities are 
clear and much change is under way to 
accelerate their delivery. At the same 
time, our teams are maintaining their 
focus on continuing to deliver high quality 
investment opportunities. Despite the 
hesitancy apparent in the financial 
markets, I intend to report further good 
progress towards our performance and 
strategic goals in the year ahead. 
Philip Yea 
Chief Executive 
11 May 2005 
07
