 Chairman’s statement
“A strong position in a buoyant market enabled the Group 
to deliver a return of £831 million for the year. In addition,
good progress has been made towards achieving our vision.
Another year of strong cash flow enables us to make further
substantial returns of capital to shareholders.”
Baroness Hogg
Chairman
10 May 2006
04 3i Report and accounts 2006      3i entered the financial year with strong momentum and buoyant
market conditions, which continued throughout the period. 
Our market position enabled the Group to take advantage of
these factors and to deliver a return of £831 million for the year
to 31 March 2006. This was substantially up from £501 million 
last year and represented a return of 22.5% on opening
shareholders’ funds.
Having invested in and developed companies of strategic value 
to others, 3i was well placed to sell into receptive markets.
Realisations totalled £2.2 billion and were made at a profit of
35% over opening value. 
The Board is recommending a final ordinary dividend of 9.7p,
making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 15.2p, up 4.1%
on last year. Meanwhile, the £500 million return of capital
approved by shareholders at our Extraordinary General Meeting
last year has essentially been completed. The Board intends to
return a further £700 million to shareholders by way of a bonus
issue of listed B shares, which is currently expected to take place
in July. Resolutions relating to the return of capital proposals will
be put to shareholders at an EGM. 
High quality new investment is a key driver of future value.
Despite remaining highly selective, we were able to increase
investment by 47% to £1.1 billion, drawing on our in-depth
sector knowledge and local relationships in a range of different
markets. The international proportion of our investment rose in
the year to 63% and our widening international reach is
illustrated by the fact that over half of our assets are now
outside the UK. 
In Asia we established teams in Shanghai and Mumbai during the
year, and made ground-breaking investments in both China and
India. 3i’s Growth Capital business has also recently entered the
US market and, in addition, our Infrastructure team is now in
place and has made a number of investments. 
We have been planning for some time to establish an Advisory
Board for our business in Germany. I am delighted to report that
Dr Peter Mihatsch, who has been on the Group Board since
2004, has agreed to become Chairman of this new Advisory
Board. However, as he would then no longer be categorised as an
independent non-executive Director, this means he will be
stepping off the 3i Group Board at the end of July. I would like to
thank him for the contribution he has made as well as the still
greater one he will be making to 3i in the future. 
I would also like to thank Danny Rosenkranz, who is Chairman of
the Remuneration Committee and has been on the Board for six
years. Danny has agreed to stand for re-election for a further
year to support Sir Robert Smith, who will be taking on the
chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee in August. 
Underpinning this year’s performance is a high level of staff
engagement. A survey of our staff during the year, conducted 
by Ipsos MORI, showed high commitment, and that 3i’s level of
staff engagement exceeded that of many other leading
companies.
This commitment also characterises our approach to corporate
responsibility. For a company like 3i, our direct impact on the
community and the environment will be much less significant
than that of the companies in which we invest. We nevertheless
are refining measurement of our own impact, while continuing 
to review our standards for these issues in portfolio selection 
and management.
I would like to thank all our staff for their skill, effort and
teamwork in achieving these good results and also pay tribute 
to the management teams and the advisers of our portfolio
companies. 
So, in summary, this has been a good year for 3i shareholders,
with the Group taking advantage of favourable market
conditions, delivering a high level of return on shareholders’
funds, growing investment levels and improving the strategic
position of the business. In developing our strategy we will
continue to combine ambition with rigour in pursuit of value 
for our investors.
Chairman’s statement
3i Report and accounts 2006     Chairman’s statement 05
