 Chairman’ s statement 
A year of progress on many fronts 
3i’s business, balance sheet and board 
have all developed considerably this year. 
The results for the Company are a good 
financial performance and strong cash 
flow, an enhanced competitive position 
and opportunities to grow value for 
shareholders in the years ahead. 
In summary, a year of progress on 
many fronts. 
Our very high level of realisations 
has afforded the opportunity to return 
£500 million to our shareholders, thus 
improving our capital efficiency, without 
compromising our ability to grow. 
Each of our Buyout, Growth 
Capital and Venture Capital businesses 
has improved its competitive position 
in the year. Our strategy of developing the 
business internationally has progressed 
well and some 48% of 3i’s portfolio value 
is now outside the UK. 
A total return of £512 million for 
the 12 months to 31 March 2005 
represents a 15.9% return on opening 
shareholders’ funds, marginally better 
than both the FTSE All-Share (15.6%) 
and the FTSE 100 (15.4%) total return 
indices in the same period, and ahead of 
3i’ s share price. 
The Board is recommending a 
final ordinary dividend of 9.3p, making a 
total ordinary dividend of 14.6p, an 
increase of 4.3% from 14.0p last year. 
Looking forward, the Board intends to 
achieve the return of an additional 
£500 million to shareholders through a 
combination of special dividend and 
share repurchases. The Board therefore 
proposes to pay a special dividend 
of 40.7p per share (approximately 
£250 million) as soon as practicable after 
the Annual General Meeting on 6 July. 
The Board also proposes that the 
balance of about £250 million be 
returned to shareholders through a 
programme of on-market share 
buybacks beginning in July. Resolutions 
relating to both the special dividend 
and buyback proposals will be put to 
shareholders at an Extraordinary General 
Meeting we plan to hold immediately 
following the Annual General Meeting. 
In my interim report to you I noted 
that the appointment of Philip Yea as 
Chief Executive in July 2004 was widely 
welcomed and that Philip had made a 
number of organisational changes in the 
autumn of 2004. These changes have 
positioned the business for growth, 
enhancing the linkage between our 
business lines and geographic markets 
and ensuring that 3i continues to attract, 
retain and develop the best talent. 
3i Report and accounts 2005 
04 Simon Ball joined 3i in February and 
succeeded Michael Queen as Finance 
Director on 1 April 2005, the date when 
Michael formally became responsible for 
3i’s Growth Capital business. Rod Perry, 
who has done a tremendous job with our 
Venture Capital business since he 
became responsible for it in 2001, retires 
from the Board at our Annual General 
Meeting in July at the age of 60. He will 
be succeeded by Jo Taylor, who will join 
our Executive Committee in July. Rod’ s 
Human Resources responsibilities have 
been taken on by Denise Collis, who 
joined 3i and the Executive Committee 
in November. 
I was also delighted to welcome 
Sir Robert Smith and Dr Peter Mihatsch 
as non-executive Directors to the Board 
in September 2004. Sir Robert brings 
a wealth of experience from the City 
and industry and has substantial private 
equity experience. Peter brings an 
for the 12 months to 
A total return of £512 million 
31 March 2005 represents a 
15.9% return on opening 
shareholders’ funds 
As ever, the macroeconomic prospects 
are complicated by global imbalances 
and shifts in the pattern of growth. 3i is, 
however, well placed to take advantage 
of these. We are already securing access 
to growth capital opportunities 
in India and China and our Venture 
Capital business is able to exploit its 
network in the US, Asia and Europe. 
Meanwhile, the pace of restructuring in 
Europe is accelerating. 
A year of such good progress at 
3i is the result of a team effort and I 
would like to pay tribute to three groups 
of people in particular. First, our teams 
around the world, who have worked with 
skill and determination to deliver these 
results. Second, the managers of our 
portfolio companies, who are the ultimate 
drivers of 3i’s value, and third, the many 
people who work with 3i around the 
world to find, invest and grow businesses 
with us. 
extensive knowledge of German 
business as well as insights gained 
from growing a major international 
telecommunications business. 3i now 
has non-executives from the US, France 
and Germany, all countries where we Baroness Hogg 
have significant interests. Chairman
11 May 2005 
Our very high level of realisations has afforded the 
opportunity to return £500 million to shareholders,
thus improving our capital efficiency 
05
