 Private Equity portfolio 
performance: growth in 
challenging times
The 10 highest performing Private Equity portfolio companies 
increased their sales and earnings by an average of 25%  
and 27% respectively in the year to December 201 1. Based in 
Europe, Asia and North America, these businesses operate 
across a broad range of sectors. What they all have in 
common is international growth, operational effectiveness 
and a strong focus on delivering excellent products and 
services. The combined value increase in these companies 
in the year was £166 million. 
Action and Hilite: demonstrating 
3i’s market access
Two new investments typify the strength of 3i’s market 
access. 3i’s deep sector and local relationships, combined 
with its track record of growing businesses internationally, 
provided the access to these investments with high 
growth potential.
Action, in which Eurofund V invested €229 million, is a 
€700 million revenue Dutch-based non-food discount  
retailer with 275 stores, aiming to expand its presence  
from the Benelux and Germany to other countries.
Hilite, a business in which Eurofund V invested €190 million, is 
a €370 million revenue automotive components business at 
the cutting edge of fuel efficiency and emissions controls 
technology. Being well positioned to benefit from these global 
trends, international growth will be key to Hilite’s success. 
International growth: 
driving realisation success
The three largest realisations in the year, MWM, Hyva and 
Ålö, grew the proportion of their international sales during 
the time that 3i was invested. They delivered an aggregate  
of 4.2x their original investment, an average IRR of 32% 
and created £412 million of value for 3i and £173 million 
for investors in the relevant private equity funds. 
Highlights from the year
€235m
invested by 3i
For more information, go to:
Strategy and performance p16 and p17 
Key Group financial performance measures p17
6 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Brazil: access to a rapidly 
growing market for 3i and 
its portfolio
In April 201 1, 3i appointed Marcelo Di Lorenzo to lead a team 
of experienced private equity investors, based in São Paulo, 
to build a business in this rapidly growing region. With the 
support of a strong local advisory board, the team also 
provides 3i’s portfolio in other countries with increased 
knowledge of, and access to the Brazilian market. 20%  
of 3i’s existing portfolio has sales or operations in  
Latin America.
In December 201 1, 3i announced its first investment in  
Brazil, a $55 million investment in Blue Interactive Group. 
Blue is the largest independent cable TV and broadband 
provider in Brazil and the investment will be used to expand 
Blue’s footprint from the 14 cities it currently operates in.
Building on our success 
in Debt Management
3i first established a debt management capability in 2007 
and, in 201 1, following the acquisition of MIM from Mizuho, 
formed a distinct Debt Management business line. 
During the year we launched the Credit Opportunities Fund, 
Palace Street I and closed our second private equity fund 
of funds, Vintage II. This, combined with the improvement 
in performance of the funds acquired, has resulted in a 
business generating fees of £32 million and with assets 
under management of £3,358 million.
 
 
LNI: a powerful combination 
of infrastructure expertise 
and Nordic knowledge
3i and 3i Infrastructure plc invested £28 million and 
£195 million respectively in January 2012 in a €1.5 billion 
transaction to form LNI through the acquisition of two 
businesses from Vattenfall AB.
LNI now comprises the second-largest electricity 
distribution network in Finland, as well as a broad-based 
local district heating network. This further diversifies the 
Infrastructure portfolio geographically.
Improved investment 
and portfolio management 
processes
The restructuring of our Private Equity business in Europe 
and the appointment of Simon Borrows as Chief Investment 
Officer (“CIO”) reinforced the changes being made to improve 
investment quality. 
Net operating expenses: 
more than halved since 2008
A further £23 million reduction in annual net operating 
expenses brings the total reduction in annual net operating 
expenses to £126 million since 2008. This 58% decrease  
was achieved as the business has been funding growth  
in several key areas, most notably in Infrastructure and  
Debt Management, growing its Private Equity business in 
developing markets, as well as developing its approach to 
responsible investing.
Responsible Investing: 
a key element of the 3i brand
We have invested in new Responsible Investing (“RI”) 
systems and processes, linked these to a series of values 
workshops for our staff and placed even greater emphasis 
on Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) issues 
in our investment and portfolio processes.
Overview Strategy, Business 
model and KPIs
Business review Risk Corporate  
responsibility
Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other 
information
7 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012
