 In my first statement to you last year, I said that our 
strategy would be to retain our financial strength, 
to continue to take a measured and highly selective 
approach to investment and to keep an absolute 
focus on improving every aspect of our business. 
It has undoubtedly been a challenging year for 
3i but we have stuck firmly to this agenda.
We have retained our financial strength, realised 
more than we have invested and made a number 
of improvements to 3i, especially in our Private 
Equity business line. We have also, following a 
rigorous process that considered a strong field 
of both external and internal candidates, 
announced the appointment of a new Chief 
Executive, Simon Borrows. 
Simon will succeed Michael Queen, who in March 
this year, after almost 25 years at 3i and three as 
Chief Executive, announced his intention to leave 
the Company. Michael has given tremendous 
service to 3i. His leadership through the period of 
the global financial crisis in restoring 3i’s financial 
strength, his founding of our highly successful 
Infrastructure business, his actions to reduce costs 
and the strong management team he has put in 
place are just some of his many achievements. 
Currently Chief Investment Officer, Simon has 
been a member of the Group Board since he joined 
3i in October 201 1. Prior to that, he was Chairman 
of Greenhill & Co. International LLP , having 
previously been Co-Chief Executive Officer 
of Greenhill & Co. Inc., a leading independent 
investment bank listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange. Before founding the European 
operations of Greenhill & Co. in 1998, he was the 
Managing Director of Baring Brothers International 
Limited. He is also a non-executive director of 
The British Land Company plc and of Inchcape plc. 
Chairman’s statement
“ A clear and concrete set of measures 
to maximise shareholder value.”
4 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Simon has already made a significant positive 
impact as Chief Investment Officer, bringing a fresh 
focus and discipline to 3i’s investment processes 
and to our approach to asset management. 
His immediate priorities as Chief Executive will be 
to pursue a clear and concrete set of measures 
that he and the Board have agreed to maximise 
shareholder value. These will include determining 
the best shape and investment strategy for the 
business going forward and ensuring that the 
operating costs of the Group are consistent with 
this. A key component of this will be improving 
the focus and discipline around the Group’s 
asset management approach and investment 
capabilities, to the benefit of the Group’s 
shareholders and co-investors. He will continue 
to chair 3i’s Investment Committee.
In our pre-close briefing statement in March, we 
said that we expected a more positive economic 
outlook to result in a stronger overall performance 
from our Private Equity portfolio, although the 
effect of this improvement in sentiment was 
unlikely to have an impact upon our results for 
the financial year to 31 March 201 2. It is clear 
that uncertainties over the environment remain, 
especially with respect to the Eurozone. It is early 
days but the performance of our recent Private 
Equity vintages is more encouraging, as can be 
seen from the additional disclosure that we have 
provided on the portfolio this year.
At the time of our half-yearly results in November 
201 1, the Board declared an interim dividend of 
2.7p and announced its intention to significantly 
increase the total dividend for the year to 8.1p, 
1 25% higher than the previous year. The Board 
is therefore recommending a final dividend 
of 5.4p, subject to the approval of shareholders 
at the AGM. In addition, the Board has decided 
to further strengthen its distribution policy 
in order to give shareholders a direct share in 
the success of the Group’s realisation activities 
by adopting a policy of returning a share of 
gross cash realisations.
The Board therefore intends to distribute to 
shareholders, whilst gearing remains less than 
20%, further amounts such that the aggregate 
level of distribution by the Company, including the 
dividend, represents at least 15% and up to 20% of 
gross cash realisations. Incremental distributions 
will be either through special dividends, the use of 
the standing share buy-back authority, or by way 
of other capital distribution methods.
The Board expects to implement this new policy 
progressively in the light of the performance of 
the business, progress in implementing the Chief 
Executive’s strategic mandate and the strength 
of the Group’s cash flow. In the next 1 2 months 
it regards the reduction of gross debt to £1 billion 
as a priority. In view of the uncertainty generated 
by the difficult conditions in the banking and 
M&A markets in Europe, the projected flow 
of realisations in the current financial year 
is expected to be lower than those in 201 1/1 2.
The Board will inform shareholders on the 
progress that it is making towards this new 
distribution policy, as well as in reducing gross 
debt on a half-yearly basis.
We were pleased to welcome Martine Verluyten 
to the Board during the year. Martine, who is based 
in Brussels, joined the Board as a non-executive 
Director in January 201 2. She was formerly the 
Chief Financial Officer of Umicore and brings a 
wide range of international and financial experience. 
In summary, this has been a challenging year for 
3i and the stability of the Eurozone remains central 
to the outlook. Whatever the environment, I and the 
Board believe that we have a clear set of measures 
to maximise shareholder value and returns for the 
co-investors in our funds. 
Sir Adrian Montague
Chairman 
16 May 2012
For more information, go to:
Governance p65
Overview Strategy, Business 
model and KPIs
Business review Risk Corporate  
responsibility
Governance Financial statements Portfolio and other 
information
5 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012
