 We have continued to execute our 
well established strategy, making good 
progress against our key performance 
indicators, with all three of our 
businesses building on the momentum 
seen in previous years. 3i generated  
an excellent total return on opening 
shareholders’ funds of 21.7% 
(2015: 19.9%) and a NAV per share of 
463 pence (31 March 2015: 396 pence). 
This year’s ﬁnancial and operational 
performance, against a backdrop 
of volatile market sentiment, 
demonstrates the depth of the  
Group’s investment capabilities and 
potential to generate attractive returns 
for investors through the cycle.
Another year of resilient ﬁnancial performance 
Private Equity had an excellent year, generating a gross 
investment return of £1,011 million, or 32% of opening value 
(2015: £719 million, 24%). This reﬂects strong performance 
from our larger investments, particularly Action, Basic-Fit 
and Scandlines. 
Action, the leading non-food discounter in continental Europe, 
had another outstanding year with a 36% increase in EBITDA and 
like-for-like sales growth of 7 .6%. Action continued its successful 
store roll-out programme, opening 141 net new stores in the year, 
and at the end of 2015 had 655 stores in six countries (with a total 
of 410 opened since our investment in 2011). Action’s international 
expansion has been a key driver of its success to date, with 
France and Germany now the main markets for growth. 
In addition, Action entered Austria and Luxembourg in 2015; 
early progress is encouraging and provides further evidence that 
Action’s store concept travels well across borders. To enhance 
Action’s international growth plans, a third distribution centre 
opened north of Paris in early 2016 and a fourth and ﬁfth are 
planned for Toulouse and Mannheim respectively. 2016 promises 
to be another strong year for Action as it plans to open more 
stores than last year. We acquired Action in 2011 as a Benelux 
retailer but in 2015, Action opened more stores in France and 
Germany than in the Benelux and it has now become a truly 
pan-European retailer. 
I joined the Board of Peer Holding BV, Action’s parent company,  
last year in recognition of the importance of this investment to 
3i and in order to foster closer links between the two groups.
Scandlines, a large ferry operator with two high frequency, large 
capacity routes between Germany and Denmark, continues to 
perform well due to strong volume growth and a shift in mix 
towards higher margin booking classes. The Danish Transport 
Ministry has conﬁrmed that the opening date of a competing 
tunnel, the Fehmarn Belt Fixed Link, on Scandlines’ key route 
between Rødby and Puttgarden will be delayed further, which 
is an important development for Scandlines. 
“ 2016 was another strong year for 3i 
and built on the success of our recent 
restructuring. The Group’s performance 
has been resilient in the face of 
challenging macro-economic conditions 
and volatile markets.” 
04
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review Positive momentum continues at Basic-Fit, the leading discount 
ﬁtness operator in continental Europe, with very good earnings 
growth and ongoing capital investment to upgrade its existing 
gym portfolio and open new units. Basic-Fit is now Europe’s 
largest discount gym chain and had 351 gyms and 1.1 million 
members at 31 March 2016. It is another pan-European business, 
growing strongly in France and Spain, having established market 
leadership in the Netherlands and Belgium. On 17 May 2016, 
Basic-Fit announced its intention to launch an Initial Public 
Offering and Listing on Euronext Amsterdam.
The wider portfolio continues to perform well, notwithstanding 
the slowing macro-economic conditions, with encouraging 
performance from some of our newer investments. Our decision 
in 2012 to focus our Private Equity resources on core sectors 
and geographies has limited the negative impact from broader 
geo-political and economic concerns. Our monthly portfolio 
monitoring means that potential issues are highlighted early and 
any remedial actions put in place promptly. However, we cannot 
be immune to issues in the markets in which we operate. In 
particular, the impact of the lower oil price on the wider energy 
and industrial sectors has impacted our investments in JMJ and 
Dynatect. Reduced capital expenditure by oil and gas companies 
has continued to affect JMJ, which provides consultancy services 
to the sector. It has also had a negative effect on Dynatect,  
a specialist provider of protection equipment. Dynatect has a 
number of large customers which supply the capital goods sector, 
including oil and gas, in the US and suffered from reduced orders 
in 2015. Foreign exchange volatility has also hindered trading for 
a number of our companies and the decline in Russian consumer 
spending has had a negative impact on trading at our lingerie 
retailer, Agent Provocateur. However, the portfolio is performing 
well overall, with only a small minority of our investments seeing 
earnings decline in 2015. Value weighted earnings increased by 
17% (2015: 19%) over the year. 
The ﬂow of realisations has continued and Private Equity realised 
total proceeds of £743 million (2015: £831 million). A supportive 
market for realisations in the ﬁrst half of our ﬁnancial year meant 
that we continued to make good progress in reshaping our 
portfolio. In total we disposed of 11 smaller or older assets in 
the year which freed up investment executive time to focus on 
origination and managing and ultimately maximising value in 
our stronger assets. 
As we noted at the half-year, we have reached a point in the 
evolution of the portfolio where more of our realisations will  
come from our stronger assets. Despite a more challenging 
macro-economic environment for realisations in the second half  
of FY2016, we sold Element Materials Technology (“Element”), 
one of our largest and highest growth investments. Under 3i’s 
ownership, Element completed and successfully integrated  
10 acquisitions which also delivered an increase in EBITDA  
margin from 16% to 26%. As a result, revenue nearly trebled  
to c.US$290 million and EBITDA quadrupled to US$80 million.  
Total cash proceeds to 3i on the sale were £188 million with 
a money multiple of 3.9x (4.5x in euro). In total, cash returns 
were £217 million, including the reﬁnancing completed in 2014. 
This was an excellent result and all credit to the management 
team at Element as well as our own Private Equity team.
Action completed a £1.2 billion senior debt reﬁnancing, despite 
deteriorating conditions in the debt markets, in February 2016. 
Action’s performance and strong cash generation meant it had 
been able to de-lever rapidly since its prior reﬁnancing in 2015. 
Such is the strength of the Action proposition that we have already 
returned a 3.5x euro cash multiple on our original investment 
without reducing our equity ownership. This transaction 
contributed £168 million to the £185 million of realisations 
received from reﬁnancings this year.
We closed the year with a strong realisation pipeline and post year 
end we announced the disposal of Amor, the market leader for 
medium price jewellery in Germany, for estimated proceeds of 
£89 million and 2.5x original euro cost (2.3x in sterling) as well as 
Mayborn, owner of the Tommee Tippee baby products brand,  
for £135 million (3.5x).
We have maintained the investment momentum seen in FY2015. 
In a competitive market, our pricing discipline is paramount but 
we were nevertheless able to secure three interesting new 
investment opportunities through careful and well managed 
processes. We invested £406 million (of which £365 million was  
3i Group proprietary capital) in Weener Plastic Packaging Group 
(“Weener Plastic”), Euro-Diesel and Audley Travel as well as a 
further investment in ATESTEO (formerly known as GIF) through 
the buyout of the founding family’s remaining interest. Further 
details on the new investments can be found on pages 18 and 19. 
The number of portfolio companies in Private Equity was 47 
unquoted assets and ﬁve quoted stakes at 31 March 2016 
(31 March 2015: 61 unquoted assets and four quoted stakes) 
and we remain on target to meet our medium-term objective 
of holding 30–40 Private Equity assets. 
Finally, we reached an important milestone at 31 March 2016 with 
the accounting recognition of carry receivable for Eurofund V. 
This is an excellent achievement as the fund performance has 
recovered from a low point of 0.6x in 2009 to 1.7x at 31 March 2016. 
The Infrastructure team built on FY2015’s excellent performance 
and its core portfolio of European economic infrastructure assets 
continues to perform well and underpins good levels of income 
for the Group. The business generated cash income of £49 million 
(2015: £47 million) through its fund advisory and management 
activities and dividend income from 3i Infrastructure plc (“3iN”). 
The good portfolio performance also resulted in a NAV based 
performance fee for 3i of £20 million (2015: £45 million). In 
addition, 3i received a special dividend of £51 million (2015: nil) 
from 3iN following its sale of Eversholt Rail.
Overview
Strategic report
Corporate Governance
Audited ﬁnancial statements
Portfolio and other information
05
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 Against a backdrop of intense competition for infrastructure 
assets, and particularly for large core economic infrastructure 
assets, the team advised 3iN on a revised return target, 
announced in May 2015, and changed their investment focus 
towards mid-market economic infrastructure businesses and 
primary PPP and low-risk energy projects, which offer more 
attractive risk-adjusted returns. The new leadership team has 
made a number of senior hires, including a new origination 
partner, to support the strategic development and momentum 
of the business. The change in focus and high level recruitment 
has led to a material increase in origination activity. Infrastructure 
announced the completion of four new investments (two further 
terminals alongside Oiltanking, ESVAGT, the West of Duddon 
Sands Offshore Transmission Owner and a French PPP investment 
in Condorcet Campus) totalling £193 million in the year. 3iN also 
announced a £75 million investment in Wireless Infrastructure 
Group and a c.£154 million investment in TCR, Europe’s largest 
independent asset owner of airport ground support equipment, 
in April 2016. 
The success of the new investment strategy led to 3iN’s 
announcement on 12 May 2016 of its intention to raise new  
equity of up to £350 million to fund new investments and its  
future pipeline. We have indicated our intention to support the 
transaction, and maintain our 34% interest in 3iN.
The Debt Management business had a successful year of fund 
raising in Europe and the US and AUM increased to £8.1 billion 
(31 March 2015: £7 .2 billion). We closed four CLOs in the year, 
raising AUM of £1.3 billion (2015: £2.2 billion) of CLO AUM before 
negative investor sentiment around oil and gas, commodities and 
utilities effectively closed the US CLO market between January 
and March 2016. The European market, which generally has less 
exposure to these sectors, was impacted to a lesser degree, 
although it was effectively also closed for part of calendar Q1 
2016. This market volatility has reduced the mark to market 
valuation of our CLO portfolio but, as long-term holders of CLO 
equity, our returns are ultimately driven by the cash ﬂows, rather 
than short-term unrealised fair value movements. 
The team continued to make important progress in diversifying 
the business and launched an open-ended senior debt fund,  
the Global Income Fund, with US$75 million of seed money  
from 3i. Both the Global Income Fund and the US Senior Loan  
Fund outperformed their benchmarks in the year. In total,  
Debt Management contributed £38 million of fee income 
(2015: £34 million) to the Group during the year.
One of the key components of our improved ﬁnancial 
performance and resilience since 2012 has been a disciplined 
control over operating expenses. Although we have recruited 
selectively within our Private Equity and Infrastructure teams to 
support origination and business development activity, costs 
remain tightly controlled at 1% of AUM (2015: 1%). Cash income 
increased by 8% to £171 million (2015: £158 million) due to fee 
income and distributions from our three businesses. As a result, 
operating cash proﬁt increased to £37 million (2015: £28 million). 
Fragile market conditions create challenges  
and opportunities
Throughout FY2016, we operated through periods of signiﬁcant 
economic, ﬁnancial and geo-political volatility driven by concerns 
about Chinese growth and the signiﬁcant falls in oil and 
commodity prices. Although the triggering events may change, 
we expect this volatility to continue to be a feature throughout 
FY2017 and beyond. This uncertainty is reducing M&A volumes 
and creates volatility in thin equity markets. Nevertheless,  
the private equity sector raised over $500 billion of new funds, 
increasing uninvested capital, or “dry powder” , to a record level  
of $1.3 trillion in 2015 (source: Bain & Company Inc.). 
In our Private Equity business, our systematic approach to 
planning for realisations allows us to be well prepared to maximise 
value in competitive processes and through the IPO market when 
conditions allow. The same factors drive our emphasis on the 
need to remain selective in making new investments. Our strategy 
of maintaining long-standing geographic teams with strong local 
relationships means we can often originate investments outside 
competitive processes and differentiate ourselves with 
management teams. 
As we do not have the pressure of a future third-party fund 
mandate and timeline, we can step away from aggressive 
processes but act with ﬂexibility and speed using our proprietary 
capital when suitable opportunities that meet our strict 
investment criteria arise. For example, in December 2015, we were 
able to move rapidly to secure the acquisition of Audley Travel  
by using the Group’s strong balance sheet to underwrite the  
debt as well as provide the equity for this fast growing business. 
After securing the acquisition, we reﬁnanced the debt facilities 
with a consortium of banks in January 2016.
Finally, our monthly portfolio monitoring process allows us to 
react promptly and decisively to indications that the wider market 
uncertainty is having a more direct effect on individual investment 
strategies, as it is bound to do given current weak growth in 
many sectors and geographies. This does not mean we can be 
completely immune to the markets in which we operate, but it 
substantially reduces the risk of material and realised losses that 
were a feature of 3i’s past.
Our Infrastructure team has responded to the low yield 
environment by resetting its investment strategy away from the 
larger infrastructure assets and projects, which are attracting 
investors with lower return expectations. This has created a 
much more active pipeline of investment opportunities. 
Debt Management maintains an active trading approach to the 
underlying credit investments in its funds to minimise the risk of 
defaults. This, in turn, reinforces its successful credit management 
track record to support future fund raising.
06
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review Cash generation and usage
Realisations/
Fees and
portfolio
income
£1,031m
Operating costs, 
net carried
interest
and tax
Debt 
repayment
and interest
costs
Shareholder
distributions
Funds to 
invest
Realisations/
Fees and
portfolio
income
£967m
Operating costs, 
net carried
interest
and tax
Debt 
repayment
and interest
costs
Shareholder
distributions
Funds to 
invest
Year to 31 March 2016 Average over FY10–FY12
27%
41%
29%
3%
13%
6%
61%
20%
Well positioned to deliver good returns  
to shareholders 
We are navigating these challenging market conditions with 
a conservative and well-funded balance sheet. Our capital 
allocation approach is unchanged since we announced our 
strategy in 2012 and the progress we have made in how we 
use our cash can be seen in the charts above. 
The majority of our proprietary capital (83%) is invested in Private 
Equity. Our planned rate of new investment in Private Equity 
remains €500–€750 million in four to seven investments per 
annum. After allowing for this, we expect to remain a signiﬁcant 
net divestor throughout the next ﬁve years, through a combination 
of re-shaping the portfolio and, more fundamentally, achieving 
our objective of generating at least a 2x money multiple on 
new investments. 
We ended the year with a healthy cash position, out of which we 
will repay the 2017 €331 million bond (2016: £262 million) which 
matures on 17 March 2017 . As we announced separately today,  
we intend to buy back the bond early to the extent there is 
investor appetite to do so. We also intend to support 3iN’s  
equity fund raising. 
In recognition of this year’s strong performance, we have 
announced an increased total dividend for FY2016 of 22 pence 
per share (2015: 20 pence per share) and our strong balance 
sheet and capital allocation approach underpins the enhancement 
of our dividend policy going forward as set out in the 
Chairman’s statement. 
Overview
Strategic report
Corporate Governance
Audited ﬁnancial statements
Portfolio and other information
07
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016 Outlook 
Our restructuring and simpliﬁed strategy has re-established  
3i as a more resilient business both commercially and ﬁnancially.  
This clear and consistent approach with its emphasis on active 
asset management, cash generation and cost control has 
demonstrated its value over the last 12 months as macro-
economic pressures and volatile debt and equity markets 
dampened market sentiment and challenged individual 
businesses. As an investment company, we also face the continual 
increase in ﬁnancial and governance regulation which is often not 
appropriate for our speciﬁc circumstances and which inevitably 
leads to further cost and complexity for the Group. 
We enter our new ﬁnancial year with those challenging conditions 
still in place, but we remain conﬁdent that we can deliver another 
resilient performance. We must maintain our price and cost 
discipline and use the sector and geographic capabilities within 
our investment platforms to produce consistently strong returns 
for our shareholders and investment partners. This approach, 
along with our strong balance sheet and a proprietorial focus, 
gives us a fundamental competitive advantage in mid-market 
private equity and infrastructure investment and underpins our 
conﬁdence in producing attractive ﬁnancial returns. The mid-market 
is limited in the scale of opportunity within it but the breadth of 
our international platform and the long-term nature of our 
proprietary capital make 3i an attractive partner for management 
teams compared to many of our fund-ﬁnanced competitors. 
This was an excellent year for the Group and I would like to thank 
the 3i team for their good work and rigour. Our disciplined 
approach, capable investment and management teams and 
strong balance sheet underpin our objective of delivering mid 
to high-teens returns to shareholders, accompanied by attractive 
cash distributions.
Simon Borrows
Chief Executive
08
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review Action highlights
Since its establishment in 1993, Benelux-based Action has grown into the 
leading European non-food discount retailer with more than 650 stores in  
six countries and over 29,000 employees. This compares to 245 stores across 
the Benelux and Germany and more than 7 ,000 employees when 3i and 
Funds invested in the business in June 201 1. EBITDA has almost tripled 
from €77 million in 2010 to €226 million in 2015. The business now 
generates revenues of c.€2.0 billion per annum, up from €600 million. 
The majority of sales are now outside Action’s home country.
Action’s business model differs from that of more traditional retailers 
because only a third of articles are part of its standard range. Large-scale 
procurement, optimal distribution and a cost-conscious corporate culture 
ensure very low prices. Action was voted European Retailer of the Year  
for the second consecutive year in 2015.
Number of stores
International  
organisational set up
Direct Asian  
sourcing
International growth  
across 6 countries
1993 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015
1
105
122
140
158
175
198
218
235
262
303
324
341
127
149
170
190
220
245
269
321
406
514
655
Netherlands
Other countries
Distribution centres
Planned distribution centres
Store operations
Overview
Strategic report
Corporate Governance
Audited ﬁnancial statements
Portfolio and other information
09
3i Group Annual report and accounts 2016
