 3i achieved a strong performance in the year 
to 31 March 2008, delivering a return on
opening shareholders’ funds of 18.6% as well as
a 37% growth in assets under management.
This result was achieved despite the significant
changes in financing markets which took place
during the year. These very changed market
conditions set the back drop for my review as 
I recognise that no matter how good our
performance has been, in the current more
uncertain environment it is the outlook and how
3i is positioned that are likely to be of most
interest to shareholders. 
My report to you coincides with a period of
considerable uncertainty. The 12 months to 
31 March 2008 have seen a significant adverse
change in the outlook for the world’s economy
and have revealed major flaws in the soundness
of the global financial system, the full
consequences of which have still to be
understood. It is likely to be some time before
the extent of the downturn in the real
economies will be seen and even longer before 
it will be possible to judge the effects of the
credit crunch. 
“A significant adverse change in the outlook
for the world’s economy.”
For some time we had felt that the buoyancy 
of the debt markets was not sustainable and
that investments made over the recent period
would be unlikely to benefit from such positive
conditions on exit. However, the extent of the
fallout from the sub-prime crisis and its effect
on mergers and acquisitions markets, and the
financing markets more generally, were not
predicted by most, including us.
Against this background, whilst we have 
been maintaining our focus on the long-term
development of 3i, the last 12 months have
seen us being even more selective in our new
investment and active in our engagement with
portfolio companies. Our investment selection
process has increasingly favoured companies 
with recurring income streams and more
defensive qualities. Our relationships in the 
mid-market, particularly those with banks, have
allowed transactions to be completed, albeit on
terms closer to those of three years ago.
“Maintaining our focus on the long-term
development of 3i.”
The number of first new investments fell from
62 to 47 but, consistent with both the market
and our own strategy, the average size of these
first investments increased significantly from
£26 million to £37 million, and so total
investment levels increased from £1,576 million
to £2,160 million, with strong figures from both
Buyouts and Growth Capital. £182 million of this
year’s figure was to seed our new QPE business
line; whereas the prior year figure included our
£91 million cash investment in the newly-
created 3i Infrastructure Limited.
As anticipated at the start of last year, due to
the relative immaturity of the portfolio,
realisations slowed from last year’s exceptional
£2,438 million to £1,742 million. At year end,
our portfolio of investments numbered 487
(2007: 762). The most significant change was
in our SMI run-off portfolio, where we ended
the year with just 92 positions, down from 293
a year ago and some 1,079 in 2004 when we
started the disposal programme.
Assets on the 3i Group balance sheet grew to
£6,016 million from £4,362 million a year
earlier, and third-party funds rose again, reaching
£3,776 million, an increase from £2,772 million
at 31 March 2007. These figures showed
excellent progress in delivering a key element of
our strategy, which is to grow assets under
management. Closing assets under management
were £9,792 million (2007: £7,134 million).
“37% growth in assets under
management.”
T otal return of 18.6% (2007: 26.8%) was
underpinned by continued exceptional returns
from our Buyouts business and good returns
from our Growth Capital and Infrastructure
businesses. Our Venture Capital and QPE
businesses both produced negative returns and
our SMI run-off portfolio’s gross return was
break even. With lower realisations, and lower
market multiples at year end, a significant
element of the return came from improved
earnings within the portfolio as well as continued
strong realisation profits on those assets that
were sold. The favourable mark-to-market 
of the derivative element of the Group’s 
€550 million convertible bond contributed 
£162 million of return, reversing last year’s
negative £62 million. Provisions rose to 
£188 million from last year’s exceptionally low
figure of £71 million.
Net asset value per share grew by £1.45 (16%)
to £10.77. The increase before dilution due to
the B share issue and dividends, was £1.94,
representing a 21% return.
Chief Executive’ s statement
“T otal return was underpinned by continued exceptional returns from 
our Buyouts business and good returns from our Growth Capital and 
Infrastructure businesses.”
06 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 During the year, we undertook a regular review 
of our investment business to determine its
future shape in terms of geography, sector and
asset class. The recent evolution of our Venture
Capital business towards later-stage investing
has brought it closer to the long-standing remit
of our Growth Capital business and so we have
decided to combine these businesses by creating
T echnology and Healthcare teams within an
expanded Growth Capital mandate. On a more
opportunistic basis, in view of the recent market
dislocations, our Buyouts business has acquired
selective leveraged debt assets on a prudent
basis. This is not only to produce private equity
like returns but also to give us the opportunity to
consider extending this business should market
conditions allow.
“The recent evolution of our Venture
Capital business towards later-stage 
has brought it closer to Growth Capital.”
The relatively benign environment of the 
last few years has allowed 3i to reshape itself 
by expanding geographically, broadening its
asset classes, and increasing third-party funds
under management, and to make major
investments in people and process without
compromising shareholder expectations.
The results of this reshaping will be seen over
the next few years as the capabilities that we
have recently built deliver further profitable
assets for the Group and additional income
streams from third-party funds. 
This also means that in the coming year our key
performance indicator of net costs as a
percentage of opening portfolio value will
continue its progress towards our long-term
objective of 3.0%.
Strategic development continued in the year
with the launches of 3i Quoted Private Equity
Limited and the 3i India Infrastructure Fund, the
development of our US Growth Capital business
and continued international expansion. 
We closed the year with total assets under
management of approximately €12 billion, 
and believe that we can grow this figure to 
over €20 billion by the end of 2010, by which
time around half these assets could be managed
or advised funds, rather than on 3i’s own 
balance sheet. 
“We believe that we can grow assets under
management to over €20 billion by the end
of 2010.”
Our people are critical to our continued success,
and how we encourage their engagement with
the firm’s agenda and reward their contribution
to our success, both financial and otherwise, are
key responsibilities of our senior team. “Carried
interest” schemes have attracted considerable
comment over the last 12 months, much of it
mis-informed and mostly unfavourable. Given
the recent excesses of the banking system, it is
timely for those of us in the private equity
industry to emphasise that carried interest
schemes only pay out on the realisation of
investments, and are aligned with the interests
of the capital provider, whether 3i itself or our
third-party investors.
As an investment company, 3i will routinely face
mis-matches in timing between making new
investments and achieving disposals. This was
the case last year when, as anticipated, new
investment exceeded disposals by £418 million.
Having also returned £808 million to
shareholders last year through an issue 
of B shares, and made further on-market
repurchases of £120 million, 3i ended the year
with gearing at 40%. 
Over the last few years, we have benefited 
from the financial flexibility which our 
€550 million convertible bond has provided. 
As this bond matures during the course of
2008, our strategy is to maintain such flexibility
by refinancing it through the issue of a new 
bond structured at an effective 60% conversion
premium to 3i’s share price at launch.
In these markets, liquidity is at a premium. 
We start the new year with liquid resources plus
undrawn facilities of £1,082 million. Looking
forward, although we are seeing a significant
level of new investment opportunities,
nevertheless we are targeting maintaining a
broadly similar level of debt by the end of the
current financial year, with a potentially modest
increase in gearing during the intervening period
as investments and divestments take place. 
“Our strategy is as relevant today 
as a year ago.”
There is, of course, continuing uncertainty in
many of our markets. History shows that
whenever the mergers and acquisitions markets
go through a period of adjustment such as this,
there is a time lag during which price
expectations are not fully matched, and so
activity is less predictable. However, compared
to previous periods of economic adjustment, 
the positive influence of the fast-growing 
economies of Asia during this period brings very
different dynamics to the outlook for the world
economy. Our portfolio is generally performing
very well but is not immune to general economic
conditions. Our strategy is as relevant today as a
year ago. 
As a consequence, we enter the new year
confident in our strategy and realistic in outlook,
intending to make further progress and to build on
the significant investment of the last few years.
Philip Y ea Chief Executive
14 May 2008
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc  07
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report Auditors’ report Financial statements
Portfolio and additional 
financial information Information for shareholders
