 Chief Executive’s review
My  last  review  for  you  as  Chief  Executive  provides  the  opportunity  to  give  you  my  perspective  on  the transformation  of  the  business  over  the  last  three  years,  as  well  as  on  the  performance  and  development  of  the  business  over  the  last  year.  When  I  was  appointed  as  CEO  in  January  2009,  the Company  faced  a  significant  crisis  requiring  extensive  management  action.  The  causes  of  this  crisis  have  been  well  chronicled  but,  in  summary,  were  a  combination  of  over  investment  in  highly  priced  and  highly  leveraged  private  equity  assets  bought  at  the  top  of  the  cycle,  combined  with  a balance  sheet  which  was  insufficiently  strong  for the  testing  conditions  at  that  time.  Less  visible  was  the  need  for  major  cultural  change  and  a  significant  reduction  in  operating  costs.  Extensive  management  action  was  required.
So  three  years  on,  where  have  we  got  to,  and  how should  this  year’s  performance  be  seen  in  the context  of  the  change  programme  overall?
In  terms  of  financial  position,  the  objectives  were  to restore  balance  sheet  strength,  to  reduce  leverage,  both  in  terms  of  the  Group  itself  and  the underlying  portfolio  and  to  build  much  stronger  liquidity.  We  end  the  year  to  31  March  201 2  with  net  debt  of  £464 million,  gross  debt  of  £1.6 billion  and  liquidity  of  £1.7 billion.  The  corresponding  numbers  for  March  2009  were  £1.9 billion,  £2.1 billion  and  £734 million.  Alongside  the  reduction  in  debt  at  a  Group  level,  we  have  also  made  good  progress  in  reducing  the  leverage  in  the  Private  Equity  buyouts  portfolio  in  particular,  with  the  average  debt  to  EBITDA  ratio  on  a  value  weighted  basis  now  down  to  4.2x  (2009:  5.3x).  “ We have used our strengthened balance sheet 
to take advantage of opportunities to create value 
for shareholders for the long term.”
Business  review Risk Corporate    responsibility
Governance Financial  statements Portfolio  and  other  information
11 3i Group plc  Annual   report  and  accounts  2012
Strategy,  Business  model  and  KPIs
Overview The  year  to  31  March  201 2  was  another  challenging  one  for  the  business,  but  it  was  also  one  in  which  the  benefits  of  this  transformation  are  becoming  more  evident.  The  combination  of  successful  realisations,  more  encouraging  earnings  performance  from  the  portfolio,  and  the  performance  of  high  potential  new  investments  such  as  Action  and  Hilite,  are  all  evidence  of  the  strengthening  of  our  Private  Equity  business.
Our  Infrastructure  business  continued  to  develop  well  and  to  build  its  portfolio.  The  investment  in LNI, the  second  largest  electricity  distribution  network  in  Finland,  is  of  particular  note.  Our  Debt  Management  business  received  a  further  boost  with  the  launch  of  the  Credit  Opportunities  Fund,  Palace  Street  I.  It  wasn’t  all  good  news.  The  strong  overall  performance  from  more  recent  Private  Equity  vintages  was  offset  by  a  continued  drag  on  returns  from  pre-credit  crisis  investments.  Their  impact  on future  returns  is  likely  to  diminish.  The  value  of our  largest  Asian  asset,  reinsurance  business  ACR,  was  also  impacted  by  natural  disasters.  These  factors,  together  with  the  impact  of  economic  uncertainty  on  both  the  multiples  used  to value  the  portfolio,  as  well  as  the  earnings  used  for  valuations,  adverse  movements  on  currency  and  pensions,  meant  that  our  total  return  for  the  year  was  £(656) million.  This  was  a  disappointing  result  in  the  light  of  the  progress  that  we  have  made  and  our  potential  for  the  future.
We  have  also  made  good  progress  in  improving  cost  efficiency.  Net  operating  expenses  fell  a  further  £23 million  in  the  year  to  31  March  201 2,  to £91 million,  just  half  of  those  in  the  year  to  31 March  2009.  This,  combined  with  the  growth  of our  Infrastructure  and  Debt  Management  businesses,  which  now  represent  49%  of  our  assets  under  management,  has  further  increased our  resilience.  In  terms  of  cultural  change,  our  Private  Equity  business  has  been  completely  restructured  with  a much  greater  emphasis  on  performance,  on  values,  on  responsible  investing  and  on  teamwork.  The  appointment  of  Simon  Borrows  as  Chief  Investment  Officer,  combined  with  the  changes  that we  have  made  throughout  the  investment  and  portfolio  management  process,  have  led  to  further  significant  improvements  in  investment  quality.  The investments  made  since  the  rights  issue  in  2009  grew  earnings  by  1 7%  on  a  value  weighted  basis,  versus  9%  for  the  portfolio  overall.
At  a  time  of  considerable  restructuring,  we  have  also  been  ambitious  and  used  our  strengthened  balance  sheet  to  take  advantage  of  opportunities  to create  value  for  shareholders  for  the  long  term.  The  launch  of  our  Debt  Management  business,  and the  recruitment  of  a  strong  team  in  Brazil,  are both  good  examples  of  this.
Chief Executive’s review
“ Further significant improvements 
in investment quality.”
12 3i Group plc  Annual   report  and  accounts  2012 I  have  been  incredibly  fortunate  to  spend  a  large  part  of  my  career  at  3i,  latterly  as  CEO.  I  believe  that 3i  is  a  wonderful  company  that  genuinely  makes  a  difference  to  the  companies  in  which  we invest  –  stimulating  investment,  job  creation  and  wealth  –  all  desperately  needed  in  the  global  economy.  I  am  confident  that  our  performance  over the  next  few  years  will  show  the  real  benefits  of  the  changes  that  I  have  been  responsible  for  over  the  last  three  years.  However,  I  took  the  view  at  the  end  of  March  that  frustration  with  our  short-term  performance  was  likely  to  become  personalised.  I  didn’t  want  to  risk  3i’s  good  name  and  prospects  being  tarnished  by unhelpful  agitation  so  therefore  came  to  the  conclusion  that  a  change  of  leadership  would  be  the  most  effective  way  to  create  the  time  and  space  to  help  the  business  achieve  its  full  potential.
Since  the  announcement  at  the  end  of  March  of  my intention  to  step  down,  I  have  been  focused  on  ensuring  that  the  momentum  of  the  business  has  continued  to  improve.  I  am  delighted  that  the  Board  has  appointed  Simon  Borrows  as  Chief  Executive,  who  is  well  placed  to  lead  3i  in  the  next  phase  of  its development.
3i  has  gone  through  a  very  difficult  turnaround  over  the  last  few  years  and  is  now  emerging  with  much  improved  prospects  for  the  future,  with  a  stronger  financial  position  and  a  higher  quality  and  more  focused  investment  business.  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Board  and  3i’s  staff  for  their  tremendous  support  and  wish  them  every  success.
Michael Queen
Chief  Executive  16  May  2012
Business  review Risk Corporate    responsibility
Governance Financial  statements Portfolio  and  other  information
13 3i Group plc  Annual   report  and  accounts  2012
Strategy,  Business  model  and  KPIs
Overview
