 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 9
Strategy and  
business model
Our strategic priorities
We have made significant progress 
in the turnaround of 3i and this is 
demonstrated by our strong results. 
We are only one year into our three year 
strategic plan and there is plenty more 
that we are doing to drive performance 
and generate further shareholder value.
Simon Borrows  
Chief Executive
1
Create a leaner 
organisation with  
a cost base more 
closely aligned 
with its income
2
Improve 
consistency  
and discipline  
of investment 
processes 
and asset 
ma n a g e m e nt 
approach
3
Re-focus 
and re-shape 
the Private  
Equity business
4
Grow third-party  
AUM and income
5
Improve capital 
allocation, 
focusing on 
enhanced 
shareholder 
distributions and 
re-investment 
in our business
For more on our strategy, please go to page 1 6
Strategy and business model 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10
On 29 June 201 2, following a strategic 
review of the business, I announced the 
future strategy for 3i, the first step of 
which involved the launch of a major cost 
reduction programme and restructuring 
of the business.
We are only one year into our three year strategic plan and 
I am pleased to report that we have made significant and rapid 
progress in the turnaround of 3i. We have delivered against all of 
the immediate priorities and targets for financial year 201 3 that 
we set out in our plan in June last year . These actions are described 
in more detail in the following pages.
During this period of considerable change at 3i, and against 
a backdrop of difficult and volatile economic conditions, we have 
delivered a strong set of Group results for the year to 31 March 201 3. 
These results underline the substantial progress that we have 
already made through implementing the first phase of our multi-year 
strategic plan. 
We are focused on executing the next phase of our plan, and there 
is plenty more that we are doing to drive performance and generate 
further shareholder value.
Strategic goal  
and the 3i Value Build
3i’s strategic goal is to be a leading international manager of  
third-party and proprietary capital with three strong investment 
businesses delivering top quartile cash investment returns over 
the longer term:
n n Focused mid-market Private Equity;
n n Class-leading Infrastructure; and
n n Growing Debt Management.
Each of these businesses has different drivers and return 
characteristics. Together , they provide an attractive balance 
of income and capital returns. We believe that the combination 
of our asset management skills across these three complementary 
platforms, together with our strong balance sheet and access 
to permanent capital, represents a differentiated and attractive 
value proposition.
At 3i’s half-yearly results and strategy update in November last year , 
I set out the key phases of our plan to deliver this strategic goal 
by financial year 201 6. These are outlined on page 18. 
We have executed successfully the first phase of this strategic plan 
(the year of “Restructuring”), and we are already making strong 
progress towards delivering the full benefits of this in financial years 
2014 and 201 5 (the years of “ Transition and delivery”).
The clear objective of this multi-year strategic plan is to improve 
business performance and maximise value for 3i, its shareholders 
and its fund investors – we call this the “3i Value Build” and 
it comprises:
n n Growing Private Equity investment portfolio earnings through the 
asset management improvement initiatives, and in turn, increasing 
the value of our portfolio;
n n Realising investments at values representing good uplifts to book 
value and strong cash-on-cash multiples, thereby optimising value 
from the portfolio and enhancing its valuation rating;
n n Generating a sustainable annual operating profit from our fund 
management activities through growth in third-party income 
combined with a right-sized cost base; 
n n Utilising our strong balance sheet and permanent capital to take 
advantage of further value-creating growth opportunities across 
our businesses; and
n n Increasing shareholder distributions through our enhanced 
distribution policy which provides shareholders with a direct share 
of our realisation proceeds above the base annual dividend level.
Chief Executive’s review 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 11
Strategy and  
business model
Strategic priorities and 
progress in FY201 3
In June last year , when I announced the future strategy for 3i, we set 
out our immediate priorities and targets for the business in the first 
phase of our strategic plan. Our progress against each of these 
priorities is described on the following pages. 
1. Create a leaner organisation with a cost base 
more closely aligned with its income
My first priority was to create a fitter and more efficient 3i. 
In June 201 2, we set out key targets for the reduction of operating 
costs, including reducing staff and consolidating our international 
network of offices. The table below sets out these key targets 
for financial year 201 3 and our progress against each of them.
We have significantly outperformed our 31 March 201 3 cost reduction 
target through a combination of over-achievement against the 
previously identified operating cost savings as well as the 
identification of further areas of efficiency as we have been 
implementing the restructuring. By 31 March 201 3, we achieved 
annualised run-rate operating cost savings of £51 million, 
28% ahead of our original target of £40 million. To achieve these 
savings, we have incurred implementation costs (including the costs 
of associated redundancies) of £30 million in financial year 201 3, 
consistent with the limit that we set ourselves when we launched 
the restructuring.
Key targets announced on 29 June 201 2 
1
Progress in FY2013
Reduce staff
Headcount reduction of over 1 60 staff 
by 31 March 201 3.
Net headcount reduction of 1 68 staff at 
31 March 201 3, before the Debt Management 
strategic acquisitions.
Represents a reduction of 39% of the Group’s 
total headcount of 435 at 31 March 201 2.
Consolidate office 
network
Re-shape the international network with 
the closure of offices in Barcelona, 
Birmingham, Copenhagen, Hong Kong, 
Milan and Shanghai, reducing the total 
number of offices from 1 9 to 1 3.
All of these office closures were completed 
during FY201 3. T otal number of offices 
reduced from 1 9 to 1 3.
Additional run-rate operating cost savings 
achieved from reducing office space in 
London and New York.
Operating  
cost savings
T argeted annualised run-rate operating 
cost savings of £40m to be achieved by 
31 March 201 3.
These cost savings were set against  
a base-line of annualised run-rate operating 
costs of £1 85m at 31 March 201 2.
Given timing effects and implementation  
costs incurred, actual reported operating 
costs in FY201 3 were expected to be at  
a similar level to FY201 2.
Achieved annualised run-rate operating 
cost savings of £51m at 31 March 201 3, 
28% ahead of original £40m target.
This reduction represents 28% of the  
base-line operating costs at 31 March 201 2.
Actual reported operating costs of £1 70m, 
below the level in FY201 2 of £180m, and 
include implementation costs and additional 
operating costs from the acquired Debt 
Management businesses.
1  As stated in 3i’s announcement on 29 June 2012, the headcount and operating cost reduction targets exclude the impact of certain corporate transactions 
which were completed subsequently and which relate to our Debt Management business. These transactions are: i) the acquisition of certain European CLO 
management contracts from Invesco (completed in August 2012); and ii) the establishment of 3i’s Debt Management platform in the US through a transaction 
with Fraser Sullivan (completed in September 2012). These transactions added 15 staff to the Group’s headcount.
It is in this context that we have set a more ambitious cost reduction 
target for financial year 2014. We are now targeting cumulative 
annualised run-rate operating cost savings of £60 million by 
31 March 2014, on a like-for-like basis with the opening run-rate 
operating cost base of £185 million as at 31 March 201 2. This 
represents a significant upwards revision by 33% from the original 
cost reduction target of £45 million by 31 March 2014. To realise 
these additional cost reductions, we expect to incur up to £7 million 
of further implementation costs in financial year 2014. Please see 
page 47 for further information.
The overall objective is for the Group’s annual cash income to cover  
its annual operating costs. To help you measure our progress against 
this objective, we have introduced a new key performance indicator 
called “Annual operating cash profit”. This is defined in more detail on 
page 48, but in summary it is the difference between our annual cash 
income (cash fees from managing third-party funds and cash income 
from our investment portfolio) and our annual operating expenses, 
excluding restructuring costs. In the past, 3i has operated at a material 
deficit on this measure, and our target is to eliminate this deficit on 
a run-rate basis by 31 March 2014.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 12
Chief Executive’s review
As part of bringing greater cost efficiency and focus across 
the business, we have removed organisational complexity and 
bureaucracy. This has included rationalising the numerous existing 
committee structures, de-layering the organisation and streamlining 
processes. Shortly after I announced 3i’s future strategy in June 201 2, 
in order to drive the change programme effectively, I put in place a 
new leadership team, the Executive Committee, which is the principal 
day-to-day decision-making body in respect of managing the Group 
(see page 6 1 ).
All of these actions have led to a simpler organisational structure 
with shorter lines of communication, and this in turn is transforming 
the culture of 3i to be much more energised and dynamic. This is 
enabling faster and more consistent decision-making across the 
business in order to effect the changes that are necessary to deliver 
improved performance.
2. Improve consistency and discipline of investment 
processes and asset management approach
In June last year , I announced six asset management improvement 
initiatives, covering all aspects of 3i’s investment and asset 
management processes within Private Equity. In particular , these 
initiatives were designed to ensure a highly selective and consistent 
approach to new investment, earlier identification of potential issues 
with existing portfolio companies, and well constructed exit strategies 
that maximise value in realisation processes. This programme of 
initiatives has been substantially implemented and is already making 
a real difference. I believe that further benefits will be seen in the 
performance of our Private Equity portfolio over time. Examples 
of these initiatives include:
Investment review process: we have streamlined our investment 
review process, including rationalising the previously separate 
Investment Committee and Portfolio Committee structures, each 
of which considered investments at different points in their lifecycle. 
In July 201 2, we moved to a new single Investment Committee which 
considers the full spectrum of decisions from investment through 
to divestment. The new process brings greater central control and 
oversight. As a result, the Investment Committee is more involved 
in the early stages of investment processes and has formal oversight 
of material changes and other value impacting events between 
investment and divestment, including refinancings and senior 
management changes.
Management assessment: following a systematic assessment 
of key management of our Private Equity portfolio companies, we 
have replaced a number of chairmen and chief executives, particularly 
in situations where we have underperforming investments. At the 
same time, we have reviewed the portfolio company board appointees 
from our own investment teams to ensure that we have the right 
people and allocation of resource. 
Performance monitoring dashboards: we have overhauled our 
monthly portfolio reporting processes within Private Equity and 
introduced new performance dashboards across our portfolio 
companies. These include key financial, operational and strategic 
metrics and commentary. The Group’s Investment Committee 
and Private Equity Partners now meet monthly to review these 
dashboards and to decide on actions and the appropriate allocation 
of resources. This initiative has transformed the way we manage 
our Private Equity investment portfolio.
Exit planning: since March 201 2, we have been working closely 
with our Private Equity portfolio companies to develop clear and well 
constructed exit strategies for each of our investments. These plans 
are reviewed and refined on an ongoing basis in response to, 
for example, market developments or unsolicited approaches. 
This is all done in the context of maximising the value to 3i’s 
shareholders and fund investors of any realisation activity, as well 
as optimising capital allocation and resource across our business. 
The fruits of this effort have already been evidenced by recent 
realisations at attractive prices, including for example, Civica, Hyperion, 
Mold-Masters, NORMA and Quintiles, and there are a number of other 
investments in exit processes that are well advanced.
Vintage control policy and capital allocation: last year , we 
implemented a new vintage control policy for the Group’s own balance 
sheet investments. This is designed to minimise the risk of over-
investing at the top of the private equity cycle in the future. In addition 
to monitoring investment and capital allocation within Private Equity, 
we have extended this approach to the rest of the Group and have 
combined it with our broader risk management framework which 
assesses and monitors other key risks for the Group. This forms part 
of our refined risk management approach which is more closely 
linked to our new strategic objectives. Further information can 
be found on pages 50 to 55. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 13
Strategy and  
business model
3. Re-focus and re-shape the Private Equity business
As well as consolidating the international office network, we have 
re-focused our Private Equity business on mid-market investing 
in sectors where we have real expertise, and in our core northern 
European markets, North America and Brazil. We have suspended 
new private equity investment in Asia and Spain, where the focus 
of our investment teams is on managing intensively 3i’s 
existing investments.
During financial year 201 3, we have made a number of important 
realisations with aggregate proceeds to 3i of £575 million.  
These include EUSA Pharma, Giraffe, HILITE, Mold-Masters and 
NORMA. In aggregate, Private Equity realisations in financial year 
201 3 have generated an uplift of 49% over opening book value and 
a money multiple of 2. 1x. Many of these realisations were based 
on the detailed exit plans that we put in place a year ago in order 
to optimise the value of those investments, and we will continue 
to execute our realisation plans in this way.
Over the next two years, the focus of our investment teams 
will continue to be on managing intensively the existing portfolio. 
We will continue to drive performance improvement and value-
building strategies and to seek realisations where conditions are right 
to maximise proceeds. This will further demonstrate the quality 
of our asset management approach and the value of our Private 
Equity portfolio, and is a key part of re-establishing our investment 
track record.
At the same time, we are pursuing a highly selective and measured 
approach to new investment. We will only focus on sourcing 
investment opportunities in the sectors and geographies where 
we believe that we have demonstrable competitive advantage. 
While the level of new opportunities being reviewed by our investment 
teams has increased materially over the last year , our investment in 
the last year has been low as we continue to see a wide gap between 
buyers’ and sellers’ price expectations.
4. Grow third-party AUM and income
Over time, 3i aims to generate more third-party income through the 
raising of further third-party funds under management. Despite the 
current tough fundraising environment, we have made good progress, 
growing third-party funds by 45% in financial year 201 3. Third-party 
funds now represent 71 % of our total assets under management, 
compared with 60% a year ago.
Private Equity: we are investing through a combination of third-party 
and proprietary capital.
n n In March 201 3, 3i announced it had completed its second Brazilian 
investment with the acquisition of leading Brazilian eyewear retailer , 
Óticas Carol. The 3i led consortium included institutional investors 
Neuberger Berman and Siguler Guff.
n n 3i has established framework arrangements with a number of 
leading investors to invest alongside 3i in mid-market European 
private equity buy-out opportunities. These arrangements include 
fees and carry payable to 3i. We believe that these innovative 
arrangements with market-leading institutions demonstrate 
confidence in 3i’s investment capabilities as well as providing 
access to additional investment capital.
Infrastructure: the European portfolio continued to perform well 
and generate a strong level of portfolio income.
n n Infrastructure is a key contributor to the Group’s annual cash 
income through both third-party fees and portfolio income. 
In addition, the value of the Group’s 34% shareholding in 
3i Infrastructure plc increased by 7 . 1 % during financial year 201 3.
n n There is strong demand for infrastructure assets as investors seek 
yield, and we are seeing a number of interesting investment 
opportunities in our core markets. In addition, we are continuing 
to explore opportunities to grow our existing infrastructure platform 
and product offering.
Debt Management: we have almost doubled third-party AUM over 
the past 1 2 months from £3.3 billion at 31 March 201 2 to £6.4 billion 
at 31 March 201 3.
n n We have made significant progress in growing our Debt 
Management business through a number of initiatives, including 
through the strategic transaction last year with Fraser Sullivan 
to establish 3i’s US debt management platform. This transaction 
closed in September 201 2, and in November 201 2 we launched 
a new US$450 million CLO (Jamestown I) in the US, and then in 
February 201 3, we refinanced an existing CLO in the US, upsizing 
it to US$500 million (Jamestown II).
n n We continue to see a number of attractive opportunities for further 
growth and development of our Debt Management business 
through fund launches and bolt-on acquisitions.
Overall, this demonstrates good progress towards our strategic 
objective of growing profitably our third-party fund management 
activities and generating a sustainable annual operating profit. 
We believe that over the medium term, this will create material 
additional value for our shareholders, over and above the value 
of our proprietary investments. 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 14
Chief Executive’s review
5. Improve capital allocation, focusing on enhanced 
shareholder distributions and re-investment in 
our business
A key component of our new strategy is to change fundamentally 
3i’s capital allocation approach so that over time the Group uses less 
capital to pay operating costs, funding costs and debt repayments, 
and instead directs more capital towards shareholder distributions 
and re-investment in our core investment businesses.
As well as achieving a significant reduction in operating costs in 
financial year 2013, we have also substantially reduced our gross 
debt and funding costs. Since 31 March 201 2, gross debt has reduced 
from £1,623 million to £1,081 million as at 31 March 2013 and to 
£91 7 million by 30 April 2013, representing a total reduction of 44%. 
Therefore, 3i has met ahead of schedule its target of reducing gross 
debt to below £1 billion by June 201 3. As a result, in financial year 
2014, we expect gross interest costs to be less than £60 million 
(excluding the costs of any further early debt repayment), which 
is 42% lower than the level in financial year 201 2 of £103 million.
The Group’s balance sheet is in a very strong position with low 
gearing and high levels of liquidity. As announced in May last year , 
we have strengthened the Group’s distribution policy in order to give 
shareholders a direct share in the success of the Group’s realisation 
activities provided that gearing is less than 20% and gross debt is less 
than £1 billion. We have now satisfied these conditions, and we expect 
to initiate additional shareholder distributions above the annual base 
dividend in respect of financial year 2014. Specifically, for the 
purposes of the distribution calculation in financial year 2014, we will 
include the proceeds of £222 million from the sale of Mold-Masters, 
which were received in March 201 3. 
A further dimension of our improved capital allocation strategy relates 
to the structure of our compensation arrangements. In the past, 
I believe that annual compensation costs as a proportion of the 
Group’s income have been too high and have not represented an 
equitable split of returns between 3i’s shareholders and employees. 
It is also critical that compensation is not viewed just as a cost to the 
business, but it should also be seen as a key tool to deliver our 
strategic objectives and drive performance. Therefore, in July 201 2, 
we launched a Group-wide review of 3i’s compensation arrangements 
with the following key objectives:
n n Ensure a fair and transparent split of returns between 3i’s key 
stakeholders, including between shareholders and employees.
n n Closer alignment of our compensation arrangements with our 
key strategic objectives.
n n Clearer link between shareholder returns and compensation, 
including a greater proportion of compensation in 3i Group 
shares.
n n Greater differentiation between individuals based on their relative 
personal performance and contribution.
Following discussions with shareholders and employees, we designed 
new compensation arrangements to achieve these objectives, and we 
are now implementing them. Further information is provided in the 
Directors’ remuneration report on pages 76 to 85.
Performance and results
Last year was another challenging year for our sector and for the 
broader financial services industry as we navigated difficult economic 
conditions and a changing regulatory landscape. On top of this, it was 
also a year of considerable change at 3i as we implemented a major 
restructuring plan. We have stayed focused on our objectives 
throughout all of this, and I am delighted to report that we have met 
or exceeded all of the targets that we set ourselves for financial year 
201 3 and we have delivered a strong set of Group results. 
In the 1 2 months to 31 March 201 3, total gross portfolio return for 
the Group was £546 million compared to a loss of £(329) million 
in the previous year . Each of our three business lines contributed 
to this result, delivering improved performances compared to last 
year . Private Equity was the largest contributor with a gross portfolio 
return of £518 million this year compared to a loss of £(34 1 ) million 
last year .
During financial year 201 3, we achieved a series of strong realisations 
within our Private Equity business. This delivered total realised profits 
over the last valuation of £1 90 million, a significant increase compared 
to £22 million in financial year 201 2, and representing an uplift of 
49% on the opening portfolio value of those investments realised. 
This is an excellent result and further evidence of the inherent value 
of our investment portfolio.
The Group’s net portfolio return this year was £432 million compared 
to a loss of £(425) million in financial year 201 2. Again, this represents 
a material improvement in performance compared to last year . 
This is despite the fall in third-party fee income from Private Equity, 
reflecting the impact of the Growth Capital Fund and Eurofund V 
coming to the end of their investment periods. 
The fall in fee income from Private Equity was partly off-set by the 
significant progress we have made in reducing the Group’s operating 
cost base. We significantly exceeded our cost reduction target for 
31 March 201 3, and materially reduced the deficit between the Group’s 
annual cash income and its annual operating costs. As a result of the 
actions we have taken, we now expect that Group cash income will 
cover operating costs by 31 March 2014 on a run-rate basis. This is 
not just about cost cutting; it also requires us to grow cash income, 
both from third-party funds under management as well as from 
our investment portfolio, particularly in our Debt Management and 
Infrastructure businesses. We have already made a good start in this 
respect by growing total third-party AUM by 45% in financial year 201 3 
from £6.3 billion to £9 .2 billion. This was largely driven by growth 
in Debt Management, including the strategic acquisition of Fraser 
Sullivan. However , cash investment levels were low in the period, 
falling to £1 72 million in financial year 201 3 from £464 million in 
the previous year . This reflects a number of factors, not least the 
continued low levels of M&A activity in Europe as well as our highly 
selective approach to new investment in the current environment.  3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15
Strategy and  
business model
During the period, NAV per share grew by 1 1.5% to 31 1 pence 
at 31 March 201 3 after taking into account implementation costs 
and dividends in the period representing 5.8 pence and 8. 1 pence 
per share respectively. In particular , strong growth was seen in the 
last three months of the financial year , with NAV per share growing 
by 8.7% from 286 pence at 31 December 201 2. 
In summary, these are strong results and show a marked 
improvement in performance compared to last year . Between  
28 June 201 2 (the day before the announcement of 3i’s future strategy) 
and 28 March 201 3 (the last trading day of financial year 201 3),  
3i delivered a total shareholder return of 67%. This is top quartile 
performance compared to the FTSE All-share index, which delivered 
an average total shareholder return of 22% over the same period. 
Strategic objectives and 
priorities for FY201 4– 1 5
We have made rapid progress in executing the restructuring plan 
during financial year 201 3, and we expect the full benefits of these 
actions to come through during the next phase of our strategic plan 
in financial years 2014 and 201 5 – T ransition and delivery . In this next 
phase, our overall strategic objectives are:
n n Cover operating costs with annual cash income.
n n Grow third-party income and generate a sustainable annual 
operating profit from our fund management activities.
n n Improve capital allocation strategy, focusing on enhanced 
shareholder distributions and re-investment in our core 
investment businesses.
To achieve these key objectives, our priorities and targets 
for financial years 2014 and 201 5 are set out on page 1 9.
The clear objective of all of these steps is to improve business 
performance and maximise value for the Group, our shareholders  
and our fund investors. This is the 3i Value Build.
Our business model is evolving. Historically, 3i was a private equity 
investor with returns dominated by realised gains from investment 
sales and unrealised portfolio value growth. Our new strategy is 
moving the business towards being a more balanced combination 
of Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management. Together , 
these three investment platforms provide an attractive balance 
of annual income and capital returns. In particular , we believe that 
the combination of our asset management skills across these three 
complementary platforms, together with our strong balance sheet 
and access to permanent capital, represents a differentiated and 
attractive value proposition for shareholders. 
While the value of our proprietary investments is the principal driver 
of our market value today, we believe that our fund management 
platform is capable of generating sustainable and growing annual 
profits over the medium term. We believe that this model is capable 
of generating significant additional shareholder value.
Outlook
While economic conditions continue to be challenging across 
a number of our key markets, we have made significant and rapid 
progress in executing the first phase of our turnaround plan, and 
this is already delivering improved performance. The actions we 
have taken have put 3i in a strong position to withstand future 
economic headwinds and uncertainty, and importantly, to take 
advantage of emerging opportunities. Our strong balance sheet and 
access to permanent capital represent a key competitive advantage.
With a clear strategy and strong management team, we look to the 
future with confidence as we execute the next phase of our strategic 
plan. Our objective is simple; it is to drive improved business 
performance and generate further shareholder value over the 
coming years.
It has been a busy and demanding period for everyone at 3i over 
the last year with many changes and new initiatives. Much of what 
we have accomplished is down to their hard work and commitment 
and I would like to thank all of our employees for their dedication 
and endurance through this challenging period for 3i.
Simon Borrrows  
Chief Executive 
