 4 Overview
3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 4
Delivering strong results
Chairman’ s statement
“ A strong performance as we 
continue implementing our 
strategic plan. ”
I am pleased to report a strong 
performance for the financial year to 
3 1  March 201 4. Simon Borrows and his 
executive team have made excellent 
headway in accomplishing many of the 
objectives in the three-year strategic 
plan we adopted in June 201 2 and 
have  achieved both strong levels of 
realisations and continued progress 
in  matching the level of our operating 
costs with our annual cash income.
Dividend
In May 2012, the Board announced a strengthened 
distribution policy designed to give shareholders a direct 
share in the success of the Group’s realisations by adopting 
a policy of returning to shareholders a proportion of gross 
cash proceeds subject to certain conditions. 
These conditions have been satisfied, and in November 2013 
we announced that we would be initiating additional 
shareholder distributions above the base dividend.
Given the strong level of realisations, the emphasis on 
selective investment in uncertain market conditions, and 
our healthy balance sheet position, we are proposing a total 
dividend for the financial year to 31 March 2014 of 20.0 pence 
per share, a yield of 6% on the 316 pence per share price 
at 28 March 2013. We paid one third of this, 6.7 pence per 
share, in January 2014 as an interim dividend. Subject to 
shareholder approval, we will pay the balance of 13.3 pence 
per share as a final dividend in July 2014.
Board changes
During the year, Willem Mesdag retired from the Board with 
effect from 30 November 2013. Willem had served as a 
non-executive Director on our Board since 2007 , including as 
Chair of the Valuations Committee, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank him for his valuable advice and counsel 
over that period. David Hutchison OBE, who is Chief Executive 
of Social Finance Ltd, joined our Board as a non-executive 
Director with effect from 1 1 November 2013. David has 
succeeded Willem as Chair of the Valuations Committee.
Outlook
We remain cautious overall on the economic outlook. While 
there appear to be some positive indicators in certain parts 
of the European economy, not least strong equity markets, 
overall levels of GDP growth remain low and we believe 
that any broader based recovery could take time, and the 
unwinding of recent monetary policy will not be without risk.
Despite this uncertain macroeconomic environment and 
relatively subdued levels of M&A activity in our core markets, 
our Private Equity business completed three new mid-market 
investments and one significant further investment: Basic-Fit, 
GIF , JMJ Associates and Scandlines, contributing to total cash 
investment of £372 million, including third-party funds.  
Within Infrastructure, the Group completed its acquisition  
of Barclays’ Infrastructure Funds Management business, 
adding over £700 million of assets under management and  
an experienced investment team based in London and Paris. 
We have also capitalised on buoyant credit markets in  
Debt Management, with the launch of four new CLO funds 
with aggregate third-party AUM of £1.2 billion.
The strength of the market for realisations and Simon Borrows’ 
success in leading 3i through an intensive restructuring process 
have allowed us again to demonstrate the strength of 3i’s 
franchise. We are confident that we will deliver the remaining 
objectives set out in the strategic plan, and we look forward 
to improving further the performance of the business and 
generating further shareholder value in years to come.
Sir Adrian Montague  
Chairman
Sir Adrian Montague  
Chairman 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 201 4
 S t ra t eg i c r e p o rt
