 3i Group plc
Report and accounts 2007 06
Chief Executive’ s statement
“Continued broadening of our investment activities by
geography and asset class, and a focus on delivering 
real value within each specific opportunity, remain
critical components of our strategy.”
This was a further year of good progress 
for the Group. The Group’s financial
performance was very strong, in terms of
new investment and divestment activity, 
as well as the high level of returns achieved. 
At the same time we are able to report
further significant progress in our strategic
development, most notably in the scale up 
of our Infrastructure business and the launch
of our QPE business line.
The first element of our strategy is to
invest in high-return assets. In this regard,
total return was notable at 26.8%, a figure
that was beyond our expectations at 
the start of the year, not least because
divestment conditions remained attractive
throughout the period due to favourable
economic conditions and the buoyancy of
debt financing markets. This figure was 
well ahead of last year’s return of 22.5%,
principally as a result of both our Buyouts 
and Growth Capital businesses delivering
exceptional gross portfolio returns on a one
year basis at 53.8% and 47.7% respectively,
well ahead of our through the cycle targets
and last year’s equivalent figures of 29.4%
and 26.4%.
These results were underpinned by a high
proportion of realised profits, a consequence
of a record level of realisations, which
at £2.4 billion for the Group, was an
improvement on last year’s previous record
figure of £2.2 billion. Our Venture Capital
business line improved its performance in the
second half, reducing its negative return to
(5.6)% for the full year compared to (8.4)%
for the first six months. 
The next elements of our strategy are 
to grow our assets and those we manage
on behalf of third parties, as well as to
extend our international reach both
directly and through investing in other
funds. The amount of 3i’s own investment
rose from £1.1 billion to £1.6 billion, an
increase of 42% on last year. This rise in new
investment reflects the strategic changes of
the last few years, with the most significant
increases coming in Growth Capital and
Infrastructure on a business line basis, 
and within Growth Capital in Asia on a
regional basis. 
Asia represented 9% of the Group’s portfolio
value at the end of the year, an increase 
over last year’s 4%. Assuming no change to
financial markets, we are targeting a further
increase in investment levels over the new
financial year, with a contribution from our
QPE business line and further progress in 
Buyouts and Growth Capital.
As a key element of our strategy is to
grow the level of third-party funds
under management, it is pleasing to report
that these rose by 76% last year, increasing
from £1,573 million to £2,772 million. 
This figure includes the third-party element
of our most recent buyout fund, Eurofund V, 
which in total closed at 15 billion, a significant
increase on the13 billion raised for 
Eurofund IV. 
Further growth in assets under management
came from the launch of 3i Infrastructure
Limited, a £700 million Jersey-based listed
infrastructure fund to which the Group
contributed assets and cash of £325 million
and third-party shareholders contributed the
balance of £375 million. 
The Group’s strategy is to raise third-party
money where structurally it is necessary 
to do so as in the case of Buyouts, or 
where it optimises our shareholders’ exposure
to a particular asset due to the nature of the
returns, such as Infrastructure. These
activities can be attractive due to the
opportunity to earn management, advisory
and performance fees that enhance the
overall level of shareholder return. Since the
end of the year we have announced the 
signing of a Memorandum of Understanding
with IIFCL, a debt financing institution set up
by the Indian Government, which will pave
the way for 3i to raise a further infrastructure
fund dedicated to the Indian market.
These developments are also excellent
examples of the fourth part of our
strategy, which is to use our balance
sheet and resources to develop both
existing and new business lines.
With unprecedented liquidity in financing
markets, as well as continued significant
change in the shape of the Group’s business,
the last element of our strategy, to
continue to build our strong culture
of operating as one company across
business lines, geographies and sectors,
is critical. 
All of our senior management, and in
particular our Group Partners, have made it
their priority to ensure that this unique 3i
culture is nurtured and strengthened, through
informal and formal channels. We measure
our colleagues’ level of engagement on an 
annual basis, and the 2007 figure of 87%, 
together with other key performance
measures, is reported on page 11 of this
report to shareholders.
Further significant progress 
in our strategic development 3i Group plc
Report and accounts 2007 07
Directors’ report Directors’ remuneration report Auditors’ report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders
At a time when there is increasing debate
about private equity as an asset class, with
concerns being raised with respect to its
stewardship, its transparency and the sources
of and sustainability of returns, we have
chosen to increase yet again 3i’s own level 
of disclosure in this report to shareholders. 
In addition to the point by point disclosure 
of progress against our strategy mentioned
above, we are also giving greater disclosure
of the financial and business progress of 
key investments for each of our major
business lines. 
Twelve months ago we announced the
intention to return some £700 million to
shareholders. At the time we wanted to retain
sufficient resources to grow our near-term
investment levels whilst maintaining strategic
flexibility as we considered the development
of the Infrastructure and QPE business lines.
With these two initiatives now launched, 
and on the back of the excellent rate of
realisations over the year, it is possible to
recommend a further return of cash without
compromising our ambition to grow assets.
Markets remain fast-changing. On the one
hand the drive by major firms to increase
their deal size is expanding the definition 
of the mid-market, which given the
international spread of 3i’s network is to 
our advantage. On the other hand, there 
is an increase in the number of firms
contemplating investing in the growth
capital market on a trans-national basis. 
Prices are generally high, and so our teams
remain selective in their choice of targets,
focused on identifying and then driving, 
with management, the underlying value of
each investment in order to deliver or exceed
our return targets. It is important to keep the
organisation of our business flexible in order
to face these markets. The formation of 
distinct Infrastructure and QPE business lines
was consistent with our policy of building
internal capabilities before building assets.
We welcome the announced and actual
listings of other private equity firms, whether
as management companies, or funds under
management. We believe that this can only
be beneficial to stock markets’ understanding
of both the sector generally, and their
appreciation of the 3i business model in
particular. Just as within the public markets
there are different companies with different
models, so too within private equity will the
market grow to understand better that
various firms have different strategies, 
some differentiated and others less so. 
3i is defined by an explicit choice to work
predominantly in the mid-market, by our
spread of assets over 14 countries and five
different asset classes, and our desire to
ensure that all of our teams nurture and value
our relationships with those outside the
Group in a way that delivers real benefits to
the companies in which we invest. 
We continue to see good investment
opportunities in our chosen areas, albeit that
pricing remains high. Continued broadening 
of our investment activities by geography
and asset class, and a focus on delivering 
real value within each specific opportunity,
remain critical components of our strategy.
Although levels of realisations are expected
to slow, we remain confident of reporting
further good progress in the delivery of our
strategy over the year ahead.
Philip Y ea Chief Executive 
9 May 2007
An explicit choice to work 
in the mid-market
W e have chosen, yet again, to
increase 3i's level of disclosure
