 06 The 4Less Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive Officer’s Review > Charles McLeod
“The Group has come a long way in a short time. The management
team is determined to continue to grow the business in a controlled
manner without curbing the entrepreneurial drive and enthusiasm,
which is so important in a fast developing operation.” 
Introduction
The year to 31 March 2004 has been
productive in terms of business
performance and also seen considerable
change as we have taken major steps 
in positioning the Group for future
development.
We continued to broaden our customer
base with new client registrations
increasing by 37% over the year. Our
Spanish office directly serves the
extensive and important business
relationships we have in that country. 
The management team was
strengthened in October 2003 by the
appointment of Greg Begley as Chief
Operating Officer and Nigel Paul as
Finance Director. Immediately following
the year under review the Group moved
its listing from OFEX to AIM, raising 
£1.7 million gross (£1.3 million net) for the
purposes of developing the infrastructure
of the Group, expanding the existing
operations especially into the corporate
arena, and to support increased foreign
exchange lines with our bankers.
A key part of the development of the
infrastructure of the Group has been 
our commitment to regulation and
compliance with Anti Money Laundering
and Proceeds of Crime legislation. We
continue to develop our internal control
and client registration systems, and 
work closely with external specialist
consultants to ensure staff are aware of
the changing legislation and adequately
trained. We have also expanded our
back office infrastructure in line with
the growth in the number of foreign
currency transactions. 
Our Property Finance division is now 
FSA authorised to conduct mortgage
business, and FLG Insurance Brokers
Limited, our insurance subsidiary is a
member of the General Insurance
Standards Council and has completed
the process of applying for FSA
registration which comes into force 
in January 2005.
We constantly listen to the requirements
of our clients and as a result of great
demand we have created International
Equity Release. This product, which is
available from banks in France, Portugal
and Spain, will allow UK residents with
unencumbered properties in these
countries to take out Euro mortgages
secured on their overseas property. 
At present this facility is not generally
available in these countries and is only
available through PropertyFinance4Less.
With over one million UK nationals
owning properties in Europe and this
number is expected to grow by a further
two million over the next five years, the
prospects for the business are good.
We have developed the infrastructure 
and recruited high calibre staff for our
new FLG Corporate Services division
which acting as broker, assists in
arranging bespoke trade and asset
finance products from a wide range 
of financial institutions. This business 
is now ready to formally launch its
products and services. 07 The 4Less Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Trading Review
The Group continued to develop its
trading base during the year. The major
contributors were our foreign currency
and overseas mortgages divisions. The
referrals now coming through the overseas
mortgage division have led to the Group
setting up an insurance broking operation
to service the substantial demand for
insurance cover for overseas properties.
The Group commenced trading in March
2000 as a foreign currency exchange
service providing an alternative to the 
UK Clearing Banks, whose high charges
and low levels of customer support had
just been severely criticised in the
Cruickshank Report. Today in addition 
to currency services the Group provides
a range of lending and insurance
products for the consumer and business
market. The Group’s rapid growth has
resulted from focusing on outstanding
customer service backed by people with
the requisite skills to fulfil our clients’
needs. We do not take principal risk on
any of our lending products or facilitate
speculative currency transactions. The
number of fully registered customers has
grown through personal recommendation,
targeted marketing and innovative use of
the internet. This has been further boosted
by reciprocal referral relationships with
overseas property agents and a number
of UK-based car dealerships. The client
base is now in excess of 20,000.
Satisfied customers are our greatest
asset and most effective advertisement.
We are encouraged that over 30% of our
business comes from recommendations
or referrals. Our large customer base 
of high net worth individuals expect
excellence and we are constantly looking
at ways of developing new products
which we believe they will find attractive. 
Currencies4Less is our principal business
activity and accounted for over 99.8% 
of Group sales and profit in the year
under review. We expect this business 
to continue to grow strongly although as
a proportion of the whole Group it will
gradually reduce as the other businesses,
including the new corporate operations,
become more established.
PropertyFinance4Less had a good 
year boosted by the continuing strong
demand from UK citizens for homes
overseas. There are now over one million
UK nationals owning property abroad,
principally in France, Italy, Portugal and
Spain and demand in other countries,
including the USA, is also buoyant. This
trend is expected to continue and we can
now benefit significantly from the high level
of requests we have received for insurance
cover through our newly established FLG
Insurance Brokers subsidiary.
Car-Finance4Less was formed to arrange
financing for clients wishing to purchase
cars abroad. However as the financial
benefit of importing cars has gradually
diminished, this business now focuses 
on building referral relationships with the
larger independent dealerships who
operate mainly in the quality brands market.
The business is making steady progress
in offering competitive financial products
aimed at higher value cars for personal use.
FLG Insurance Brokers has recently
commenced trading. We are excited
about the prospects for this business
whose products span both the consumer
and corporate markets. The business
provides a range of insurance products
for property owners overseas including
house and contents insurance, mortgage
linked life/protection assurance, critical
illness, health and travel insurance. It also
provides corporate customers with credit
insurance, bonds, liability insurance and
personal indemnity cover. Early signs 
are encouraging and with the additional
benefit of annual renewal premiums, the
outlook for the business is positive and 
it should provide a stable and growing
income stream to the Group.
FLG Corporate Services has also 
only recently commenced trading. This
division provides financial services to
business customers requiring customised
funding packages to support their
existing trading activities and growth
ambitions. The division will arrange asset
and trade finance facilities and 
debt financing, with particular emphasis
on companies with a turnover broadly 
in the range £1 million to £100 million. 
Our Corporate Services team has long
experience in this market and over the
years has built a wide network of
business contacts and commercial
relationships. We are excited by the
opportunities in this market and are
particularly encouraged by our discussions
with the larger financial institutions that
provide the financing to our clients. It is
early days but the feedback we have
received suggests that this business has
a bright future. 
Corporate Identity
We have recently introduced a new
corporate identity and have redesigned
our Group web site in order to provide
more information for investors and others
interested in our Company. This new
style will be adopted Group wide. 
Looking Forward
The Group has come a long way in a
short time. The management team is
determined to continue to grow the
business in a controlled manner without
curbing the entrepreneurial drive and
enthusiasm, which is so important in a
fast developing operation. Looking to the
future we aim to reinforce our strong
organic growth with acquisitions that
support and complement our existing
businesses. We are proud of what has
been achieved but not complacent about
the challenges that lie ahead.
Charles McLeod
16 September 2004
