 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10
STRATEGIC REPORT
 Chief Executive Officer’s Report
Duncan Peyton, Chief Executive Officer
In 2016, 4D continued to build its world-leading position 
in Live Biotherapeutics through its understanding of the 
microbiome, the role of the microbiome in disease, and the 
development of Live Biotherapeutics as a potential cure. 
What 4D is about 
In 2014, 4D was set up to investigate 
the potential of two bacteria that showed 
promise in modulating the immune system 
and therefore had potential as a drug. 
The simple questions 4D asked:
• Do bacteria act like a drug?
• Are they safe?
• Can they be delivered simply?
• If so, are there further bacteria (in 
addition to the two original bacteria 
that had been isolated) that could have 
therapeutic effect in other diseases?
If the answers to the above questions 
were yes, then 4D had the potential for 
what could be called a “perfect” drug, 
a drug that is safe and effective, and easy 
to deliver; that has a rapid development 
pathway; and that is capable of reliable 
and cost-effective production.
Moving through 2016, 4D has a lot of the 
answers to the above questions. 
Our work in understanding how our Live 
Biotherapeutics function as drugs has 
made significant progress; we understand 
not only the pathways and mechanisms 
our Live Biotherapeutics leverage, but in 
some instances we also understand and 
have patented the agent the bacteria 
produce to exert its effect. 
From a safety perspective 4D has worked 
with the regulators since the Company’s 
inception to understand the potential of 
Live Biotherapeutics as a drug free from 
the significant side effects or toxicity 
normally associated with pharmaceuticals. 
In 2016, Blautix was shown to be safe and 
well tolerated in IBS patients. 
With the acquisition of our development 
facility in León, 4D has now manufactured 
five different Live Biotherapeutics at a 
clinical scale. We have also worked with 
our encapsulation partners to bring a new 
delivery technology to the market enabling 
simple oral delivery of our drugs to patients 
participating in our IBS and Paediatric 
Crohn’s trials.
4D also understands that there are 
additional bacteria that have the potential 
to impact disease as a Live Biotherapeutic. 
Our proprietary platform, MicroRx, has 
identified Live Biotherapeutics that in 
industry standard models demonstrate 
therapeutically relevant effects in diseases 
such as cancer and asthma and autoimmune 
conditions such as Rheumatoid Arthritis 
and Multiple Sclerosis. 
The questions originally asked in 2014 
are just as relevant in 2016; however, 
the research and development 4D has 
undertaken have raised more. 
Understanding disease – 
targeting cures
IBS is not a well understood disease, 
with calls for better diagnostics and more 
targeted drugs. 
It is a functional bowel disorder 
characterised by discomfort, pain and 
changes in bowel habits. Symptoms 
can be mild, moderate or severe. Mild 
symptoms, which occur infrequently, 
can sometimes interfere with normal 
daily functioning. Moderate symptoms 
are more intense, occur more frequently, 
and often interfere with daily functioning. 
Severe symptoms chronically interfere 
with daily functioning. 
The disease is characterised according to 
symptoms into three subtypes: constipation 
(IBS-C), diarrhoea (IBS-D) and mixed (IBS-M). 
The treatments are directed at only one of 
the symptoms, and are not able to address 
the root cause of the disease. Furthermore, 
as no biomarker for IBS exists, current 
treatment protocols are heavily dependent 
on patient reported symptoms, with 
clinicians having difficulty in addressing 
and prescribing adequate treatment. 
It is estimated that 10–15% of the 
population have IBS, with only 30–35% 
of subjects seeking medical attention, the 
majority of which have persistent symptoms.
We believe 4D has taken significant steps 
in moving a misunderstood disease forward.
In 2014 with our Blautix programme, 
a drug targeting IBS, 4D pioneered the use 
of germ-free models to study the effects 
of human microbiota. This involved the 
transplantation of IBS patient microbiome 
to study the effects in a germ-free 
environment. The results of this work 
showed that the translation of IBS patient 
microbiome led to the development of IBS 
symptoms, pointing towards the microbiome 
as potentially being the root cause of 
the disease.
Moving forward to 2016, we conducted 
a safety and tolerability placebo controlled 
trial in IBS patients and healthy volunteers 
(the “Blautix Trial”). As part of that trial 
4D also took the opportunity to look, 
as a secondary measure, at the changes 
in the microbiome before, during and 
after dosing and also for any improvement 
in patient symptoms. STRATEGIC REPORT
11 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.4dpharmaplc.com
Building development –  
delivering drugs
An issue seen with any new breakthrough 
technology are the questions concerning 
whether it can be manufactured repeatedly 
and reliably, and whether it is easy to deliver. 
We do not use consortia of bacteria, where 
multiple different types of bacteria are used 
in combination to try to recreate a “healthy 
gut”; it is clear every person has a different 
“healthy gut” and isolates of the same 
strains from different people can have very 
different functionality.
The Live Biotherapeutics developed by 4D 
are single strain; they are selected on the 
basis of their functionality and potential to 
impact a specific disease pathway. Using 
single strains allows for a simpler more 
straightforward manufacturing process.
From the perspective of delivery, 4D has 
worked with its partners to develop and 
(through our trials) prove encapsulation 
technology that is viable both scientifically 
and commercially. 
The key issue for the emerging 
microbiome field is to understand 
development and manufacturing. 
• there are significant differences seen 
between healthy volunteer and patient 
microbiomes, further suggesting that 
the microbiome is potentially the root 
cause of the disease;
• the difference between the microbiome 
of healthy volunteers and patients points 
to a biomarker based on metabolites 
that could aid diagnosis of IBS; and
• analysis of IBS patient microbiota 
showed no significant difference between 
any of the subtypes, suggesting that 
all subtypes of IBS could potentially 
be treated by a Live Biotherapeutic 
intervention, and current characterisation 
of subtypes is not a true representation 
of the disease, but rather of the 
treatments currently available. 
We are progressing with our Blautix 
programme through 2017 with even 
greater confidence; later in 2017, 4D will 
begin a larger, multi-centre phase 2 trial. 
In addition, 4D recognised that diagnosis 
of IBS is difficult for clinicians; with no 
recognised biomarker, clinicians are left to 
make therapeutic decisions on symptoms 
reported by patients, which may not always 
be clear or accurate. 
In early 2016, 4D began a separate study 
(the “Diagnostic Study”) looking at the 
difference between IBS patients and 
healthy volunteers. The aim of this study 
was to understand if there were differences 
between the microbiome of these two 
groups, and whether 4D could exploit 
this difference as a diagnostic tool.
The results of the above trials conducted 
with IBS patients showed: 
• the microbiome of patients and healthy 
volunteers is significantly different;
• the microbiome of the subtypes of 
IBS patients (IBS-C, IBS-D and IBS-M) 
is not significantly different; 
• those IBS patients on Blautix showed 
an increased diversity and stability of 
microbiome compared to placebo; 
• Blautix to be safe and well tolerated, 
meeting the primary endpoint of the 
Blautix Trial; and
• those patients on Blautix showed a 
greater improvement in symptoms 
than those on placebo.
The above results suggest:
• the microbiome is potentially the root 
cause of the disease, as shown in the 
pre-clinical models;
F 
By reducing development times by up to five years, we can deliver these new drugs to the  
people that need them faster. In fact, we can go from concept to clinic in just 24 months.
24 months 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12
STRATEGIC REPORT
The concept at 4D Pharma Cork was 
initially to combine our understanding 
of Live Biotherapeutics (from the research 
generated by our MicroRx therapeutic 
platform) with the knowledge held within 
4D Pharma Cork, to build a new diagnostic 
platform, called MicroDx, based around 
the microbiome. 
The concept for MicroDx is the ability 
to identify “signatures” based on the 
functionality of the gut microbiome and 
also on metabolite profiles (small molecules 
produced by the microbiome). This could 
allow the development of rapid methods 
of diagnosis, which could be readily 
transferred into the clinical setting.
The Diagnostic Trial mentioned earlier was 
a completely stand-alone trial, independent 
from the Blautix Trial. The trial was set up 
to look at the microbiota of patients with 
IBS and that of healthy volunteers, and 
from that information investigate the 
potential for a marker that could distinguish 
between patients and healthy volunteers. 
Whilst the trial is still continuing, interim 
analysis of data has demonstrated MicroDx 
is able to differentiate IBS patients from 
healthy subjects based on metabolite profile.
This work demonstrates the potential within 
the microbiome to provide markers capable 
of use in a point of care diagnostic. 
4D intends to use the MicroDx IBS test 
in our Blautix phase 2 trial to help stratify 
patients and monitor progression, and will 
look to expand on and include it in its trials 
for cancer and asthma which start later 
in 2017. 
 Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued
What people want is a better diagnosis…
leading to better, more targeted drugs.
If 4D worked solely with contract providers, 
shifting programmes and timings would not 
have been possible due to capacity and 
scheduling constraints, nor would 4D be 
able to find sufficient capacity to address 
our need going forward. 
The reason 4D is confident in meeting its 
development goals is due to the in-house 
development and manufacturing capability 
acquired by 4D during 2016.
In April 4D acquired the production assets 
of Instituto Biomar, S.A. (or “Biomar”), 
a Spanish-based contract research 
organisation specialising in microbial 
fermentation (see note 12 to the 
financial statements).
This facility gives the flexibility and scale 
to take all 4D’s current research through 
the clinic, and gives the Company the 
capacity to manufacture enough active 
pharmaceutical ingredient for up to around 
20 million capsules per annum.
Better diagnostics –  
improving patient outcomes
As 4D began to understand more 
about the therapeutic effect of Live 
Biotherapeutics and the impact on the 
microbiome, we recognised the potential in 
using the microbiome to aid the diagnosis 
and treatment of disease. 
In February 2016 we acquired 4D Pharma 
Cork (then Tucana Health), a start-up 
company from University College Cork 
(see note 12 to the financial statements).
Building development –  
delivering drugs continued
At 4D the process of manufacture is 
straightforward: fermentation, separation, 
lyophilisation and encapsulation. Whilst 
the core process remains constant, the 
conditions for each of the programmes 
is different, requiring different media, 
processing times, etc. However, to date 
we have successfully been able to 
manufacture all of our Live Biotherapeutics 
that 4D has so far chosen to take in to the 
clinic. With patient trials completed and 
several in planning, 4D has addressed 
the issues surrounding manufacture and 
delivery; the issue for 4D is flexibility and 
recognising a lack of pharmaceutical grade 
facilities capable of producing Live 
Biotherapeutics at development and 
commercial scale.
In 2016, 4D decided to delay the clinical 
development of Rosburix, our programme 
in Ulcerative Colitis, in favour of our cancer 
programme. The decision was strategic; 
it was important that 4D moved away 
from gastrointestinal disease to diseases 
not generally associated with the gut 
(such as cancer and Rheumatoid Arthritis), 
demonstrating the breadth of the our live 
programmes and development speed. 
From a development pipeline perspective, 
in 2017 4D plans to have trials commencing 
in cancer and severe asthma, to have 
completed the phase 1 trial in Paediatric 
Crohn’s Disease, and to have commenced 
a phase 2 trial in IBS. In 2018, 4D will 
potentially add an additional three new 
clinical programmes. STRATEGIC REPORT
13 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
trials and preparing our next wave of 
programmes for upcoming phase 1 trials.
The Group continues to manage its cash 
deposits prudently and invests its funds 
across a number of financial institutions 
which have investment grade credit ratings. 
The deposits range from instant access 
to twelve-month term deposits and are 
regularly reviewed by the Board. Cash 
forecasts are updated monthly to ensure 
that there is sufficient cash available for 
the Group’s foreseeable requirements. 
More details on the Group’s treasury 
policies are provided in note 24 to the 
financial statements.
Outlook
In summary, 2016 saw 4D continue its 
successful development, building on its 
existing research and also making strategic 
acquisitions which we believe will play 
a vital role in the Company’s goal to 
successfully develop Live Biotherapeutics 
as safe and effective drugs. 
Duncan Peyton
Chief Executive Officer
26 April 2017
Increased patent coverage 
4D is breaking new ground on a number 
of fronts, use of bacteria as a drug and 
mechanisms associated, process 
development, diagnostics, etc., all of 
which creates intellectual property.
The development of our patent portfolio 
in some way reflects the pace of our 
development; from start up in 2014 we 
now have 85 granted patents and over 
100 applications.
As we continue our understanding and 
progress in this emerging field, 4D will 
continue to develop its leading position 
in intellectual property coverage.
Financial summary
In the year to December 2016, our cash 
and cash equivalents and short-term 
deposits reduced from £85.4 million to 
£68.8 million, with a loss before tax of 
£11.7 million (compared with £10.1 million 
in the year to December 2015). Our claim 
for research and development tax 
credit was £1.8 million (compared with 
£1.4 million in the year to December 2015).
Our cash burn for the year was in line with 
expectation, and reflected among other 
things the increased costs of taking our most 
advanced programmes through phase 1 
Houston, Texas
INRA
León
Cork
Aberdeen
Leeds
F 
Our collaboration in Houston
4D has entered into a long-term collaboration with Diversigen, Inc., a commercial endeavour 
of Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, a world-renowned health sciences university. 
With our partner, 4D has established a dedicated germ-free facility to further the development 
of pre-clinical models of disease.
 Our locations
 Our collaborations
STRATEGIC REPORT
