 04 The 4Less Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chairman’s Statement > Eric Peacock 
“Demand for our services remains strong and the level of
interest in our new products, both retail and commercial, 
is encouraging.”
This advance was strengthened shortly
after the year end with the Group’s listing
on AIM on 15 April 2004 when we raised
£1.3 million (after expenses). These 
funds are being used to provide working
capital and support for two new initiatives
targeted at the business finance and
insurance markets. 
Performance
Gross turnover for the 12 months to 
31 March 2004 was £319.2 million
generating a gross profit of £2.9 million.
This represents an increase in gross profit
of 55% over the 2003 result. Margins
improved from 0.73% to 0.81% in our
core currencies business while the Group
profit on ordinary activities before tax of
£298,000 was a rise of 176% on the
previous year. This result was slightly
ahead of the forecast for profit before 
tax of £290,000 issued at the time of the
AIM listing and placing. The Group has
ample cash resources to fund its planned
activities. The move to AIM gives the
Group increased visibility and raises its
profile with investors and in its industry
sector, while also helping to build a
broader shareholder base and greater
liquidity in the stock.
Prior Period Adjustment
The accounts include a prior period
adjustment to correct understatements 
of trade debtors and trade creditors
contained in the balance sheet at 
31 March 2002. The effect on net
assets is £232,000 after taxation. 
Introduction
The year under review has been very
successful for The 4Less Group plc.
Business volumes grew strongly while the
Group took significant steps to further
develop its position as one of the leading
providers of foreign exchange and other
financial services to retail and corporate
clients both in the UK and overseas.  05 The 4Less Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2004
“I have been greatly impressed by the quality and
professionalism demonstrated by staff at all levels.”
The net assets at 31 March 2004,
adjusted for the net proceeds of the
flotation and the prior period adjustment
are £1.7 million. The understatements
relate wholly to the two years ended 
31 March 2002, the first two years of
trading. Since 31 March 2002, the
Group’s management and its financial
and accounting systems have been
significantly strengthened and we are
satisfied that the Group’s systems and
internal controls are robust. 
Board
In October 2003, the Board was
strengthened through the appointment 
of Greg Begley as Chief Operating Officer
and Nigel Paul as Finance Director who
both have many years of experience in
banking and finance. I joined the Board in
March 2004, prior to the move to AIM.
People
The number of people in the Group has
grown significantly during the year. I have
been greatly impressed by the quality and
professionalism demonstrated by staff
at all levels. The Group places strong
emphasis on training and is committed
to the on-going development of its staff.
I would like to thank everyone associated
with the Group for their commitment, hard
work and above all, enthusiasm. 
Outlook
The year has started well; demand for our
services remains strong and the level of
interest in our new products, both retail
and commercial, is encouraging. Trading
conditions in our key markets are buoyant
and we look forward with confidence.
Eric Peacock CMG DL
16 September 2004
