 STRATEGIC REPORT
01 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.4dpharmaplc.com
Highlights
Operational highlights
• Successful phase 1 clinical trial in respect of Blautix, 4D’s 
proprietary programme for the treatment of Irritable Bowel 
Syndrome, achieving the primary objective of establishing 
safety and tolerability
• Analysis of patient data from phase 1 clinical trial showing 
a positive improvement in patient symptoms over placebo
• Analysis of IBS patient microbiome showing Blautix both 
stabilises and increases diversity of the microbiome
• Commencement of the phase 1 clinical trial in respect 
of Thetanix, 4D’s proprietary programme for the treatment 
of Paediatric Crohn’s Disease
• Acquisition of 4D Pharma Cork Limited (formerly Tucana 
Health Limited), a start-up company from University College 
Cork founded to investigate the use of microbiome 
signatures to aid the diagnosis and treatment of diseases; 
the year has also seen the successful development of its 
proprietary diagnostic platform, MicroDx
• Acquisition of the production assets of Instituto Biomar, 
S.A. via a newly incorporated Spanish subsidiary, 4D 
Pharma León, S.L.U., establishing 4D’s own development 
and manufacturing facility in León, Spain
Strategic report
Highlights 01
4D pharma at a Glance 02
Chairman’s Statement 04
Our Business Model and Strategy 05
Our Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) 06
Risk and Risk Management 07
Chief Executive Officer’s Report 10
Corporate governance
Board of Directors 14
Corporate Governance Statement 15
Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 18
Report of the Remuneration Committee 20
Directors’ Report 22
Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 24
Financial statements
Independent Auditor’s Report 25
Group Statement of T otal Comprehensive Income 26
Group Statement of Financial Position 27
Company Statement of Financial Position 28
Group Statement of Changes in Equity 29
Company Statement of Changes in Equity  30
Group Cash Flow Statement 31
Company Cash Flow Statement 32
Notes to the Financial Statements 33
Total comprehensive 
loss after tax (£m) 
£10.3m
Financial highlights
Expenditure on 
research and 
development (£m)
£10.2m
Total equity (£m) 
 
£86.5m
Cash and cash 
equivalents
1
 (£m) 
£68.8m
Loss per share
2
 
(pence) 
15.21p
10.3
7.7
2.3
14 15 16
10.2
8.4
1.8
14 15 16
86.5
92.7
37.0
14 15 16
68.8
85.4
31.8
1 includes cash on deposit.
14 15 16 14 15 16
15.21
12.62
4.81
2 basic and diluted. 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 02
STRATEGIC REPORT
What are Live 
Biotherapeutics?
Live Biotherapeutics are a regulated, emerging 
and disruptive new class of medicines, which 
have the potential to transform the way in 
which many important diseases are treated.
Our products are strains of gut commensal 
bacteria which have been originally isolated 
from a healthy human. These are encapsulated, 
administered orally and delivered selectively 
to the gut where they interact with the 
patient and exert their therapeutic effects.
A disruptive new class
Live Biotherapeutics provide an opportunity 
to offer patients safer and more effective 
treatment options. They also provide an 
opportunity to treat diseases that existing 
therapies are unable to address.
Live Biotherapeutics exert their therapeutic 
effects in a variety of ways. Some act on 
the same or similar pathways as existing 
therapeutics, allowing for safer and efficacious 
alternatives to marketed therapies. Others 
hit previously un-drugged disease targets, 
opening up entirely new avenues of 
treatment. Unlike traditional medicines, 
Live Biotherapeutics exert their effects on 
the host via multiple interactions, and this 
multifaceted approach gives us a greater 
chance of treating more patients effectively.
Intrinsically safe
The constant issue in drug development is 
toxicity, or “side effects”. This occurs when a 
drug “hits” other targets in the body that it 
was not designed to do. This is why drugs 
have side effects, leading to sub-optimal 
treatment regimens or premature termination 
of development programmes, a concern for 
both patients and clinicians, as well as the 
industry as a whole.
Our Live Biotherapeutics are originally 
sourced and isolated from healthy human 
donors and consequently have excellent 
safety profiles. This allows us to safely 
and rapidly accelerate our therapies 
into the clinic.
E 
Live Biotherapeutics interact 
with the immune system by 
a variety of mechanisms. 
Although typically initiated in 
the gut, the resulting changes 
in downstream pathways are 
diverse and can produce effects 
in remote areas of the body.
4D pharma at a Glance
World- 
leading  
research.
We are pioneers in harnessing bacteria as a novel and revolutionary class 
of medicines – called Live Biotherapeutics. From asthma to cancer, our 
teams conduct world-leading research on how gut bacteria influence a 
host of different diseases. We believe that what makes us different is the 
ability to rapidly translate this research into novel therapies for patients. STRATEGIC REPORT
03 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.4dpharmaplc.com
MicroRx – our highly productive discovery platform
Using over two decades of world-leading research into the role 
of the microbiome and its influence on our immune system, 4D 
has built a platform – known as MicroRx – to rapidly select those 
bacteria that may have a therapeutic effect in specific diseases.
MicroRx is able to interrogate our proprietary library of over 4,000 
bacterial strains to develop a host-response profile, which is unique 
to each strain. This allows us to do two things: firstly, to identify 
strains which are potentially therapeutically relevant and have 
meaningful effects on the host; secondly, to target specific 
diseases which are driven by pathways which match the 
host-response profile of the strain.
Gastrointestinal
Blautix Irritable Bowel Syndrome
Rosburix Paediatric Ulcerative Colitis
Thetanix Paediatric Crohn’s Disease
CNS
Autism
Anxiety/Depression
Respiratory
MRx0004 Severe Neutrophilic Asthma
MRx0001 Allergic Asthma 
Immuno-oncology
MRx518 Solid tumours
Autoimmune
MRx0002 Multiple Sclerosis
MRx0006 Rheumatoid Arthritis
Others
Development pipeline
Discovery Pre-clinical Development Phase I Phase II Phase III
Rapid pre-clinical development
Using industry standard methods, as well as our proprietary 
disease models, we select our Live Biotherapeutics based on 
their efficacy and ability to be rapidly translated into a drug. 4D 
understands the functionality of bacteria and their interaction with 
the human body. As this functionality has evolved over millions of 
years, allowing bacteria and host to co-exist, the Live Biotherapeutics 
developed by 4D have attractive safety profiles.
Unlike traditional drug discovery, which involves multiple rounds 
of hit and lead optimisation to identify a clinical candidate – a 
process which can take a number of years – our approach facilitates 
a telescoping of pre-clinical development. We can progress from 
concept to clinical trials in as little as 24 months, ultimately helping 
4D get its therapies to patients who need them more rapidly.
Functional screen
Microbiology  Immunology  Gut physiology
Mechanism of action
Microbiology  Immunology  Gut physiology
Development
RCB  Scale up  Lyophilisation  Stability  Safety  Potency
Source
Gut microbiota from faecal material
Isolation
Individual bacterial strains on selective media
Identification
of bacteria using genome sequencing
Mechanisms
Pre-clinical models
Efficacy
Pre-clinical models
