 4D pharma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
 Chairman’ s Statement
David Norwood, Non-executive Chairman
2016 has seen 4D move into clinical trials in patients, and the 
results reinforce our belief that Live Biotherapeutics will bring 
safer, more effective treatments to the market. 
part of being able to move our programmes 
through the clinic, and from there to plan 
for manufacture.
Governance and Board
The Company’s Corporate Governance 
Statement can be found on pages 15 to 17.
Ever since the Company’s initial public 
offering, as the Company and the Group 
have grown, the Board has maintained 
a regular review and evaluation of its 
effectiveness, and that of the wider 
governance structure of the Group.
As an AIM-quoted company, the Company 
is not required to comply with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. The Board 
has nevertheless always sought to apply 
policies and procedures which reflect 
the principles of good governance and 
best practice reflected in the Code, as 
appropriate to the size, nature and stage 
of development of the Company.
We believe the Company’s governance 
structure has facilitated the growth and 
development of the Group. However, 
as set out in the Corporate Governance 
Statement, as the Group continues 
to grow, we will maintain this evaluation 
and take the governance steps necessary 
to support the Group’s development.
Our people
Both a significant cause and effect of our 
continued successful development is our 
greater ability to recruit high quality people, 
across all aspects of the Group. We now 
employ 85 people over five sites across 
Europe. I would like to thank everyone in 
4D for their contribution to the advances 
we made in 2016.
The steps we have taken in the year give 
us huge confidence in our strategy and in 
our long-term future.
David Norwood
Non-executive Chairman
26 April 2017
Strategic objectives
All drug companies want to provide drugs 
that are safe and effective; they want to 
do so rapidly and cost-effectively. With 
the completion of our trial in patients with 
Irritable Bowel Syndrome (or IBS), and 
commencement of our trial in Paediatric 
Crohn’s Disease, 4D is doing just that.
The clinical progression has been made 
without losing focus on expanding and 
broadening our research base. The year 
saw major advances in the Group’s 
continuing goal to grow its knowledge 
and understanding of the microbiome.
In February we acquired 4D Pharma Cork 
Limited and with it established MicroDx, 
our proprietary diagnostic platform using 
microbiome signatures allowing stratification 
and diagnosis of patient populations. Since 
then we have swiftly developed the platform, 
setting up its first clinical trial (also in IBS), 
whose initial results point for the first time 
towards a biomarker for IBS.
The year also saw the Group acquire 
its development facility in León, Spain. 
Securing this dedicated facility is a vital 
