 4imprint Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 04
OVERVIEW
Chairman’s Statement
Our business model is resilient 
and our market opportunity 
remains large and attractive.
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another very good year of 
progress for 4imprint. Revenue for the year was $558.2m, an 
increase of 12% over prior year. The revenue increase on a 
like-for-like basis was 13%, after adjusting for the effects of a 53
rd
 
week in the 2015 comparative accounting period and a negative 
currency impact on the results of our UK-based business. All 
revenue growth was organic.
Underlying profit before tax rose to $38.4m, up 14% over 2015. 
Profit before tax was $34.2m, 10% higher than 2015. This result is 
consistent with our strategy to maximise revenue growth whilst 
maintaining a broadly stable operating margin percentage. 
Investment in marketing remains the primary growth driver. A 
major milestone was reached in 2016: the total number of orders 
received in the year surpassed one million for the first time.
The Group ended 2016 in a strong financial position. Low fixed 
capital requirements and good working capital management 
resulted in efficient cash conversion. The year end cash balance of 
$21.7m was an increase of $3.3m over 2015, despite a planned 
one-off pension contribution in the year of $14.5m.
Significant progress was made during 2016 in respect of the 
Group’s legacy defined benefit pension scheme. The buy-out 
process is complete. Going forward, contributions into the 
remaining plan, which consists primarily of deferred pensioners, 
will be at a much lower level over the next several years.
John Poulter retired on 30 November 2016 from his position as 
Non-Executive Chairman of the Group. John joined the Board in 
May 2010, and his leadership was instrumental in the success of 
the Group over recent years. The Board wishes to express its 
gratitude to John and to wish him well for the future. I was 
appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in February 
2016 and subsequently as Non-Executive Chairman on 
1 December 2016. 
At the half year the Board declared an interim dividend per share 
of 16.32c, an increase of 35% over 2015. This increase was set in 
the context of expected reduced future contributions to the 
pension scheme, along with the ongoing cash generative nature of 
the Group’s trading operations. As anticipated, the Board confirms 
that it is recommending a final dividend of 36.18c, also an increase 
of 35% over prior year.
A relentless focus on customer care is at the heart of our business, 
and I would like to thank every one of our talented and dedicated 
team members for maintaining remarkable service levels as the 
business continues to grow.
Our business model is resilient and our market opportunity remains 
large and attractive. After a period of volatility in the fourth 
quarter of 2016 caused by uncertainty around the US presidential 
election, customer order activity normalised in December. The first 
few weeks of 2017 have shown a satisfactory start to the year.
Paul Moody 
Chairman
8 March 2017
Revenue
$558.2m
Underlying profit before tax
$38.4m 4imprint Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05
Overview Governance
Strategic  
Report
Financial  
Statements
Additional 
Information
CASE STUDY
Giving Back
Marlboro County Economic 
Development Partnership
Calculators were given to attendees 
at the opening of a training hub for
current workers and those looking to 
enter a career in manufacturing.
How dogs help kids read  
and succeed in the classroom
Stuffed dogs were ‘adopted’ by second 
graders who completed the program, 
becoming strong, confident readers, 
while learning compassion for animals.
Helping Hands for Manitobans 
with Breast Cancer Inc. 
Branded flashlights lit up the room  
at an event to raise funds to support 
Manitobans undergoing breast 
cancer treatment.
Onebyone
®
 is our charitable giving 
programme in North America. Each 
business day we aim to award at least 
three $500 grants to non-profit 
organisations, allowing them to use the 
power of promotional products to help 
spread the word, recruit volunteers 
or thank donors.
