 4imprint Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015 04
Chairman’s Statement
2015 was another excellent year for 4imprint. Revenues were $497.2m, an increase of 20% 
over the prior period. The effect of a 53rd week in the financial period contributed to the 
revenue increase, but only to a small degree. Underlying profit before tax, at $33.5m, also 
rose by 20%.
Orders from new customers increased 18%. Customer retention remains strong, with more 
than 65% of revenue coming from customers who had ordered previously.
Two major infrastructure projects were completed in 2015. The Oshkosh distribution centre, 
from which the Blue Box™ sample programme and the embroidery operation are 
managed, was more than doubled in size. There was also a substantial expansion in 
customer service capacity at the main office location. Both projects were completed to 
budget, on time and without operational disruption. The capital expenditure commitment, 
at $9m, was significant but the expanded facilities are expected to accommodate the 
Group’s growth over the next five years.
At the year end net cash was $18.4m, which in light of the investment in facilities, 
highlights the cash generative nature of the business model. 
The Board was further strengthened by the appointment in June 2015 of Charles Brady and 
the recent appointment of Paul Moody as Non-Executive Directors.
The business proposition 
remains strong and the 
opportunity substantial.
In respect of the legacy defined benefit 
pension scheme, agreement has been 
reached with the Trustee to convert the 
previous buy-in arrangements to a buy-out, 
which will substantially reduce the size of 
the remaining scheme and result in lower 
deficit reduction contributions going 
forward. A one-off contribution of £10m 
will be paid into the scheme, as a result of 
which the remaining net deficit, relating 
primarily to deferred members, is expected 
to be reduced by around half from its 
current level of just over $23m.
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 26.80c, an increase of 22%. Going 
forward, the reduced contributions to the 
pension scheme and the low underlying 
capital requirements of the business will 
provide scope for further increases in returns 
to Shareholders.
The business proposition remains strong and 
the opportunity substantial. Our strategic 
objective continues to be the maximisation 
of organic growth while delivering broadly 
constant operating margins coupled with 
high cash conversion. 2016 has started 
satisfactorily. 
John Poulter
Chairman
9 March 2016
Overview
Revenue
£497.2m 
Underlying profit before tax
£33.5m  Overview Governance
Strategic 
Report
Financial 
Statements
Additional 
Information
05 4imprint Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
The Oshkosh distribution centre, from 
which the Blue Box™ sample programme 
and the embroidery operation are 
managed, was more than doubled in size. 
The project was completed on budget, 
on time and without operational 
disruption. The expanded facility is 
expected to accommodate the growth  
of the North American business over  
the next five years.
New distribution centre
