 06
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am delighted to update our stakeholders 
on what has been another outstanding 
year for 888. Our strong financial results 
for the year have been underpinned by 
significant progress against our strategic 
objectives. As you will read in more detail 
throughout this year’s Annual Report, 
888’s success in 2016 was characterised 
by continued investment in our technology 
leadership; successful further expansion 
in regulated markets; and standout 
performances in Casino and Sport. 
RESULTS 
2016 was another very busy year at 
888 and, testament to the skill and 
entrepreneurial spirit of our exceptional 
team, our operational performance was 
stronger than ever. This resulted in the 
Group delivering revenue growth of 13% 
to US$520.8 million (2015: US$462.1 
million) despite significant adverse 
currency movements impacting our 
reported results. At constant currency 
revenue increased impressively by 18% 
to US$546.4 million.
Our core B2C business continued to grow, 
with a 5% increase in active customers, 
driven primarily by outstanding results 
in Casino and Sport, growth in regulated 
markets and by our offer on mobile 
devices, which expanded to represent 
60% of B2C revenue in the UK (2015: 
47%). As a result, total B2C revenue was 
US$460.2 million, representing a 15% uplift 
on the prior year (2015: US$399.4 million) 
or a 20% increase at constant currency to 
US$479.9 million. 
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 12% to 
US$90.2 million (2015: US$80.6 million) 
which represented 24% growth at 
constant currency to US$100 million 
and profit before tax was 82% higher at 
US$59.2 million (2015: US$32.5 million). 
The Group remains highly cash generative 
with net cash generated from operating 
activities of US$68.1 million (2015: 
US$85.0 million).
Given the continuing strong financial 
performance of the Group and the Board’s 
confidence in the outlook, the Board of 
Directors is recommending a final dividend 
of 5.1¢ per share in accordance with 888’s 
dividend policy, plus an additional one-
off 10.5¢ per share bringing the total for 
the year to 19.4¢ per share (2015: 15.5¢ 
per share).
STRATEGIC PROGRESS
The Board believes that 888’s proprietary 
online gaming technology is second to 
none. This strength, coupled with the 
Group’s business analytics, customer 
relationship management and marketing 
expertise, continues to provide the 
foundation for 888’s competitive 
advantages. In such a dynamic and rapidly 
developing industry, continually investing 
in and developing our own world class 
technology means that we are able to 
be nimble in relation to opportunities, 
respond to regulatory developments 
and create new, engaging and — above 
all — safe and secure entertainment for 
our customers. 
In 2016 we delivered further successful 
expansion across regulated markets 
where we are able to leverage the Group’s 
full marketing expertise to develop the 
888 brands. We continued to make 
outstanding progress in the UK; Spain, 
which is now our second largest market; 
Italy, where we are benefitting from the 
introduction of Sport in the first quarter 
of the year; and Denmark, where we 
successfully launched in the second 
half of 2015 with a full suite of products 
and brands. Revenue from regulated 
markets increased to represent 61% of 
Group revenue (2015: 59%), significantly 
outpacing growth from unregulated  
“dot.com” markets. 
Our values place the community  
and the customer at the centre  
of all our endeavours. 
> See page 36
RESPONSIBLE  
GAMING 
PROTECTING 
CUSTOMERS 
PROTECTING THE 
VULNERABLE 
888’s success in 2016 was characterised 
by continued investment in our technology 
leadership; successful further expansion 
in regulated markets; and standout 
performances in Casino and Sport.
BRIAN MATTINGLEY
Chairman
STRONG GROWTH ACROSS 
A DIVERSIFIED BUSINESS STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
The Group continues to monitor and 
plan for potential implications from the 
UK’s decision to leave the European 
Union. However, we do not anticipate 
significant impact on our operations. Since 
the ”Brexit” vote Sterling has devalued 
compared to the US$ and, as the Group 
has adopted the US$ as its reporting 
currency, our reported financials have 
consequently been impacted. 
Trading during the financial year to 
date has been in line with the Board’s 
expectations with average daily 
revenue more than 11% above the 
previous year at constant currency.
888 is an increasingly diversified operator 
with the majority of its income now 
generated from regulated markets. 
The Group has significant further 
growth opportunities across its existing 
geographies, platforms and product 
verticals and will continue to evaluate and 
explore new avenues for growth. Into 2017 
and beyond 888’s focus will remain as 
resolute as ever on delivering a truly 
satisfying experience for our customers, 
thereby delivering strong, sustainable long 
term earnings growth for our shareholders.
BRIAN MATTINGLEY
Chairman
21 March 2017
888 HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016
The Board had previously identified 
sports betting as a major opportunity 
for the Group. In 2016, a major focus was 
on driving growth in Sport, which we are 
for the first time in our Annual Results 
reporting as a standalone product vertical. 
During the year we significantly increased 
investment behind marketing the 888sport 
brand and enjoyed a very successful 
European Football Championships in the 
summer, which demonstrated our ability to 
effectively compete during major sporting 
events. As a result, Sport customers 
increased by 49% and revenue increased 
by 49% to US$51.9 million (2015: 
US$34.8 million). In 2017, the Group will 
continue to invest behind delivering the 
exciting further opportunities for Sport 
both in terms of revenue growth and 
efficient customer acquisition. 
888’s success in Sport is just 
one example of the Group’s 
ability to identify new 
growth opportunities and 
successfully deliver them.
In addition to our organic growth plans, 
M&A remains a part of the Group’s 
strategic agenda and, with 888 in great 
health, it is an area that we are able to 
evaluate from a position of strength. 888 
has significant organic growth potential 
and — where M&A might complement this 
— we will continue to evaluate and explore 
appropriate opportunities.
888’S WINNING TEAM
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank each and 
every one of my colleagues at 888 for 
their commitment during the year. 
2016 was a very busy year for the Group 
and the success we have been able to 
deliver under 10 licences across regulated 
markets, four major product verticals 
and both B2C and B2B divisions speaks 
volumes for the strength in depth of our 
people throughout 888. I am confident 
that their skill and dedication will ensure 
888 remains at the forefront of the online 
gaming industry for years to come. 
I would also like to thank Amos Pickel, 
who has served on the 888 Board as a 
Non-executive Director and as a Chairman 
and member of Board Committees since 
2006, and who does not intend to offer 
himself for re-election at the 2017 Annual 
General Meeting. Amos has brought a 
wealth of experience and knowledge to 
the Board, and we wish him well in his 
future endeavours.
The Board is fully committed to complying 
with the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code. You can find the 
required regulatory and governance 
disclosures throughout this report and in 
the compliance statement on page 48.
OUTLOOK 
The global online gaming market is 
dynamic and will continue to grow driven 
by technology developments, the opening 
up of new marketing channels and 
further regulation. 
888 operates in a highly regulated 
industry across multiple geographies 
and the Group’s investment will remain 
focused on driving growth in markets 
where there are sustainable regulatory 
frameworks for online gaming. Regulated 
markets are the future of our industry 
and 888 has an enviable track record 
in adapting to and capitalising on 
new regulatory developments. 
In the UK, in August 2017 changes in 
remote gaming duty will expand the tax 
base to include customer bonuses and 
this will have an impact on the competitive 
dynamics and profitability of operators. 
However, with our own gaming platforms 
and significant experience of adapting to 
new regulatory environments, 888 remains 
well positioned to mitigate in part the 
impact of and capitalise on opportunities 
presented by these changes.
07
STRATEGIC REPORT
