 Reflecting on the performance over the year, I am delighted to say 
that the business has performed very well, meeting both its strategic 
and financial objectives.
Strategic execution
Over the past three years we have been reshaping our business 
and believe the results we report this year show that our strategic 
direction is the right one. We have grown in all of our geographic 
regions and product categories, whilst continuing progress against 
each of our strategic goals.
Abcam is a rapidly growing organisation which places new 
demands on our existing systems and processes. We are investing 
in new capabilities in order to support continued growth and realise 
the opportunities in the markets in which we operate. In particular, 
we are investing in scalable and flexible IT systems and have chosen 
a cloud-based enterprise resource planning (ERP) platform, as well 
as a primary implementation partner.
We believe our strategy is strengthening Abcam’s position at the heart 
of life science research worldwide. We expect to continue to grow 
organically and, where we see technologies and businesses that fit 
our business model, through partnering and acquisition. Our recent 
acquisition of AxioMx is a good example of where we identified 
a company with a new technology that potentially allows us to 
add further value to the research, diagnostic and therapeutic 
communities. This technology has the potential to produce highly 
validated recombinant monoclonal antibodies within weeks – a 
significantly shorter timeframe than is possible with current in vivo 
technology. The Board is pleased with the progress being made 
and the first AxioMx products are already on Abcam’s catalogue.
Our strategy is designed to increase revenue growth and improve 
the long-term financial performance of the business, in support of 
our ambition to become the most influential life sciences company 
supporting researchers. Each year we set ourselves challenging 
targets and, once again, we have achieved results at the top 
end of these targets.
Abcam has reported 
another year of strong 
revenue growth and the 
Board believes the Group is 
well positioned to continue 
delivering sustainable 
returns as it continues to 
invest to support the next 
chapter of growth.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
4 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
Chairman’s introduction Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 6.556 pence per share 
(FY 2015: 5.92 pence per share). Added to the interim dividend of 
2.354 pence per share, this brings the total dividend for the financial 
year ended 30 June 2016 to 8.91 pence per share, representing an 
increase of 8.5% growth over the previous year. The dividend will 
be paid on 2 December 2016 to shareholders on the register 
on 11 November 2016. The associated ex-dividend date is 
10 November 2016.
Governance
Achieving high standards of governance is fundamental to the 
successful growth of our business. The establishment of a Company 
Secretariat has enabled additional focus to be given to corporate 
governance. Even though it is not a requirement for an AIM-listed 
company, we continue to comply in all material respects with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (Code).
As a Board, we have focused on enhancing our effectiveness 
and implementing the new requirements of the 2014 edition of the 
Code, which apply to us for the first time this year. These include 
defining our risk appetite and conducting a broader risk assessment 
in the context of assessing our longer-term financial viability.
We regularly review ways to improve the effectiveness of the Board 
and its Committees and a thorough and detailed internal evaluation 
was undertaken this year. A summary of the evaluation is on page 25.
Strong leadership and dedicated employees
Our Company has grown significantly over recent years and now 
employs over 900 people in twelve locations. During the year we 
have made key appointments across the business to broaden our 
product development and digital marketing expertise. We also 
expanded our legal and diagnostics teams, and appointed a global 
head of HR to ensure that we continue to attract and retain the 
best talent worldwide.
Our Board has also been strengthened with the addition 
of Mara Aspinall, who joined us in September 2015 as a  
Non-Executive Director, and she has already made significant 
contributions to the business. 
During the course of the year our Chief Operating Officer (COO), 
Jim Warwick, and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Jeff Iliffe, 
announced their intention to leave Abcam and step down from 
the Board. Both have played a huge role in the Company’s success, 
with Jim being an integral part of the business for more than 15 years 
and Jeff similarly since being appointed CFO in 2007. I would like 
to thank them for all their hard work during their time at Abcam 
and their continued dedication to the business through an efficient 
transition. Jeff has ensured an orderly handover to Gavin Wood, who 
joined Abcam as CFO-elect on 18 July 2016, and will become CFO 
on 12 September. Jim is remaining with Abcam until the end of 2016 
to ensure that the initial build and design phase of our new ERP 
programme is completed.
In August 2016, Anthony Martin and Michael Ross advised the Board 
of their intention not to seek re-election as Directors at the forthcoming 
AGM. I would like to thank them both for the significant roles they 
have played during their service on the Board of Abcam. Their insight 
and support have been extremely valuable and we wish them well 
in their future endeavours.
The successful transformation of our business to date is a result of 
the hard work, enthusiasm and dedication of all of our employees. 
My thanks to them and to our shareholders, who have continued 
to support the business through a period of investment and growth. 
I would also like to thank my Board colleagues for their guidance 
and oversight of the business and the Executive Leadership Team 
for continuing to deliver strong business performance while 
successfully executing on the strategic priorities.
Creating future sources of value
We listen to our consumers and focus on identifying the biological 
pathways and targets of greatest interest to them, whilst working 
to ensure our products are of the highest quality, accompanied 
by relevant supporting data. This approach has resulted in Abcam 
remaining the leading primary antibody supplier to the life science 
research market. Favourable macroeconomic trends and our 
investment strategy combine to support the growth of our innovative 
products. While operating in a competitive marketplace, comprised 
of both private and public companies, we continue to gain 
market share.
We are making good progress against long term strategic priorities 
and growth objectives. We have a strong history of growth through 
acquisition and our most recent company acquisitions, Firefly BioWorks 
and AxioMx, whilst still in an investment stage, are beginning to deliver 
results. We will continue our programme of investment in our systems 
and processes, as well as in our facilities, to ensure that we have the 
infrastructure to support the growth of the business and we are 
confident that we can continue to build significant value for all 
of our stakeholders.
Murray Hennessy
Chairman
5 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
