 Alan Hirzel
Chief	Executive	Officer
We are building Abcam for success in the life science market 
of today and tomorrow by creating a scalable platform that 
will enable us to continue to grow over the long term.
The Company has transitioned from being a small high growth 
company to being a significant player in our core markets, with 
future expansion potential through targeted investment. Abcam is 
the market leader in primary antibodies for use in research. It is our 
goal to continue to grow the Company and create value for all 
of our stakeholders. We have a strong track record of delivering 
on our promises and we will continue to focus on understanding 
our customers, delivering high quality products, and being the 
innovation partner of choice for the researchers we serve globally.
A clear direction
In 2014 we laid out the strategy that has subsequently seen Abcam 
become increasingly successful, bearing testament to the hard 
work of all our employees across the Company. Each year we set 
ourselves challenging goals and I am pleased to say that in FY 2016 
the achievement against our KPI targets was at the top end of the 
target range, or above, in each category.
Strategic KPI FY 2016 target
FY 2016 
performance Importance
Growth in constant 
currency revenue 
from RabMAb
®
 primary 
antibody range
15%–20% 29.5% Abcam is the leading supplier of recombinant monoclonal antibodies. RabMAb
®
 
primary antibodies are increasing their market share and are valuable tools for life 
science researchers, who are looking for more specific and sensitive antibodies 
that give repeatable results. With almost 9,000 RabMAb
®
 primary antibodies in our 
catalogue, we expect them to continue to play an important part in our growth.
Growth in constant 
currency revenue 
from non-primary 
antibody products
25%–30% 30.3% Driving growth by expanding into new areas is a focus for our business. 
Non-primary antibody products now comprise over 18% of our total revenue.
Net Promoter Score (NPS) 22%–28% 26% The NPS measures how our consumers perceive our brand.
#1 market position 
in primary antibodies
Gain market share 
in at least two other 
product categories
#1 primary 
antibodies
Gained market  
share across all  
other categories
Market research has confirmed that we remain the #1 brand for research 
antibodies and we continue to gain market share across all other categories.
7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
CEO’s review and operational report Our strategic priorities
Our strategy is designed to generate sustainable sales and earnings 
growth and improved returns to shareholders.
We have five strategic priorities:
• to grow our core reagents business faster than the market;
• establish new growth platforms;
• scale organisation capabilities;
• sustain attractive economics; and
• selectively pursue partnerships and acquisitions.
Read more about our achievements against these priorities 
on pages 11 and 12.
Innovation and future growth
We continue to focus on our broad portfolio of tools to enable 
research into the role of signalling and regulatory molecules 
and proteins in biological pathways.
We analyse data and research trends to develop products that fit 
the requirements of our consumers. We package these products in 
a format that suits their needs, making it easier and faster for them 
to complete their work. This approach is driving new product sales.
Our proprietary, high quality RabMAb
®
 technology continues to be 
an important differentiator for the business. We increased our ranges 
of RabMAb
®
 antibodies and SimpleStep ELISA
®
 assay kits which contain 
RabMAb
®
 antibodies.
During the year we also launched a suite of matched antibody 
pairs in a standalone format. These products provide greater 
flexibility to researchers and allow cost-effective drug discovery.
Expanding the global reach of our products is fundamental to 
our organic growth plans. In addition to extending our geographic 
outreach in China, during the year we have also introduced 
a direct supply model in Singapore.
The diagnostics market is an area where we see an opportunity for 
expansion and is one where we have seen success. Abcam’s work 
with global pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies to develop 
and produce companion diagnostic antibodies to targets such as 
PD-L1, is a prime example.
PD-L1 is an important target in difficult to treat cancers such as 
melanoma and lung cancer and Abcam’s RabMAb
®
 technology has 
played a key role in helping diagnostic companies to offer specific 
diagnostic antibodies targeting PD-L1 to the clinic. Abcam worked 
on several bespoke projects in partnership with large pharmaceutical 
companies to develop highly specific RabMAb
®
 antibodies to the 
target. In addition to these clinical uses, PD-L1 RabMAb
®
 product 
(clone 28–8) is now also available on our website for research use and 
in its first year has become one of the most cited antibodies of its type.
Creating value through acquisition and partnering
Abcam has a strong track record of delivering growth through 
acquisition and partnership deals. The Company actively seeks 
to partner with entities that offer complementary products or 
capabilities in the life science market.
We have clear criteria when considering opportunities. In addition 
to being able to generate an appropriate return on investment for 
our shareholders, we look for new innovative growth platforms and/or 
new expertise that we can leverage.
The acquisitions of MitoSciences and Epitomics gave us an 
enhanced immunoassay portfolio and intellectual property 
for RabMAb
®
 production capacity respectively, both of which 
have made significant contributions to Abcam’s growth.
Our more recent acquisitions, whilst both still in an investment stage, 
are already beginning to deliver results. We acquired Firefly BioWorks 
in January 2015 and, later that year, launched microRNA (miRNA) 
assays using the Firefly
®
 technology. These allow measurement of 
multiple miRNA assays with fewer steps than conventional assays. 
This technology is starting to deliver, largely through our sample 
testing services, and is also in use in customers’ own laboratories. 
We have already seen several publications using the technology, 
including a paper describing the development of miRNA biomarkers 
for cardiac toxicity in drug development. We are also developing 
multiplex immunoassays using the Firefly
®
 technology and are beta 
testing these products with researchers. The Firefly
®
 multiplex 
immunoassays, enabling efficient measurement of multiple proteins, 
will complement our SimpleStep ELISA
®
 and Matched Antibody Pair 
product lines, which offer rapid testing and a flexible format respectively. 
Our RabMAb
®
 antibodies are incorporated in all of these products 
and they are developed at our Eugene, Oregon site, which was 
added in the MitoSciences acquisition in 2011.
AxioMx, which we acquired in November 2015, offers in vitro 
recombinant monoclonal antibody technology which complements 
Abcam’s existing antibody and immunoassay capabilities by targeting 
attractive and growing markets that traditional in vivo antibody 
production methods struggle to address. In addition to opening new 
markets, AxioMx capabilities have the potential to deliver high quality 
antibodies within weeks, which is significantly faster than is possible 
using in vivo methods. The team has made good progress since 
the acquisition from both a commercial and technical perspective, 
with new AxioMx technology-based developments for SimpleStep 
ELISA
®
 with matched antibody pair and conjugated product lines 
all being initiated. The plan for additional products focusing on new 
targets is in progress and the first AxioMx developed products are 
now on the catalogue.
It is part of our strategy to pursue further acquisitions and 
collaborations where they will create additional value for 
the business and our stakeholders.
Investing for the future
Abcam is a rapidly growing organisation and it is important that we 
have the infrastructure to support this growth both from a systems 
and processes perspective. Key to this is the implementation of a 
comprehensive ERP system. During the period, we have gone through 
an extensive selection process both of the platform and for an 
implementation partner. We have chosen Oracle Fusion as the 
core cloud-based ERP software provider and have also appointed 
our primary implementation partner. The detailed design phase 
of the project is nearing completion and we have already begun 
to build certain modules in line with a phased approach to roll-out.
We believe the investment will give us multiple advantages, including 
allowing us to scale the business without increasing the headcount 
by as much as would otherwise be the case; improving consumer 
interaction and conversion; better information for decision making 
and a significant improvement in integrating and delivering value 
from any future strategic acquisitions or investments.
Additionally, we have made enhancements to some of our facilities 
to fit the needs of our growing organisation. We have increased 
handling capacity through our investment in the relocation of our 
Hangzhou production facility and have integrated the Firefly team 
into the same building as our existing facility in Boston, USA.
8 Abcam plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
CEO’s review and operational report continued Our headquarters in Cambridge, UK, are currently spread across 
three sites. In August 2016, outline planning permission was obtained 
for a new building on the Cambridge Biomedical Campus, which 
would enable us to consolidate into a single site, with sufficient 
space to accommodate our current and future needs.
Markets
The global life science research tools market is estimated to be $2.7bn 
and we continue to be the leader in the estimated $900m primary 
research antibodies market segment, supported by strong growth 
in RabMAb
®
 antibodies. We have also been successful in delivering 
significant revenue growth from our non-antibody products.
The table below shows our revenues from a geographical point of 
view based on the location of our customers. It shows strong revenue 
growth, and further information about our markets can be found on 
page 10 of this report.
Revenue
FY 2016
£000
Revenue
FY 2015
£000
Increase in
reported
revenue
CER
growth
The Americas 68,800 58,535 17.5% 10.6%
EMEA 47,686 43,343 10.0% 12.4%
Japan 12,321 11,148 10.5% 7.2%
China 18,844 12,912 45.9% 43.0%
Rest of Asia Pacific 11,310 9,444 19.8% 16.5%
Catalogue revenue 158,961 135,382 17.4% 14.4%
Custom products 
and licensing
1
12,712 8,651 46.9% 39.2%
Total reported 
revenue 171,673 144,033 19.2% 15.9%
1  Custom products and licensing revenues were previously known as non-product 
revenues but have been re-named to better reflect the nature of this income. This 
includes revenues from custom services, IVD and licences.
Values and our people
Abcam is a rapidly growing company and key to our success is 
the quality of our people and the way we conduct our business. 
Our global headcount has increased to over 900 employees 
and we have attracted strong talent to the Company and built 
solid capabilities which are underpinning the long-term growth 
of the business.
Outlook
To ensure we are able to capitalise fully on the opportunities 
available to us, we continue to work closely with our consumers 
and invest in R&D, our employees, our IT and our infrastructure 
to provide innovative, trusted and improved solutions.
Supported by a clear purpose and strategy we believe that 
Abcam is well positioned to continue delivering long-term value 
for our stakeholders.
Alan Hirzel
Chief Executive Officer
9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Abcam plc
Strategic report
