 3  corporate.betfair.com/investor-relations/annual-reports
Additionally, we are investing in our product and brand.  
The Exchange appeals greatly to many consumers but does  
not fully address the mass market, due to perceived and real 
complexity. In response, we made the creation of a Sportsbook 
product, which launched in February, our top product priority. 
This simpler product enables us to attract those customers  
who have not yet understood or embraced the Exchange  
model. We believe that the combination of the Exchange  
and Sportsbook is a powerful combination, allowing us  
to provide customers with a superior customer experience.
The Sportsbook is also enabling us to offer a wider range of bets  
to our existing customers by offering a solution to illiquid markets, 
especially in-play. More compelling still is the prospect of combining 
our Sportsbook with the Exchange to create a unique offering by 
introducing Exchange-based features to our Sportsbook customers.
We are investing in the Betfair brand and are repositioning it to be 
more inclusive and relevant to a wider audience. In the first six 
months in which marketing spend has been redirected towards the 
UK and Ireland, the number of unique customers in these countries 
increased by 18%. Betfair has a reputation for innovation, rooted in 
breakthrough technology, and our brand messaging builds on this. 
We undertook a thorough review of our cost base and identified  
a number of areas where the business could become leaner.  
In the second half of the year we implemented changes that will 
save c.£30m in FY14, an increase over the originally targeted 
£20m. We are taking pride in doing more with less. Of this 
saving, we are intending to re-invest c.£10m in customer facing 
product and marketing initiatives to drive revenue growth. 
Our balance sheet strength is a valuable source of competitive 
advantage and we intend to use this to pursue a strategy of 
targeted acquisitions to add further domestic scale, achieve 
geographical expansion and close product gaps. We believe 
investment opportunities exist to generate substantial returns 
from our cash balance and we will maintain a disciplined 
approach to investment.
We have made substantial progress to date and this is testament  
to the quality and hard work of our people, for which I thank them. 
The changes made to the business alongside our unique technology, 
customer value proposition, UK scale and strong balance sheet  
mean that the business is well placed to compete in this challenging 
industry in the long term. I am very happy to be leading the business 
at this exciting time for Betfair and our industry.
Outlook 
We believe that our new strategy will lead to an acceleration  
of revenue growth in our key UK market and expect these 
revenues to grow in line with the market in the medium term.
In markets with insufficient regulatory visibility, revenues  
are expected to decline in the near term following our decision  
to cease marketing investment, although these revenues  
continue to be more resilient than expected. In the longer  
term, we see Italy and Spain as potentially attractive sources  
of growth following positive regulatory developments. 
We are focused on efforts to mitigate the impact of upcoming  
UK gaming taxes and continue to believe that increasing our  
scale will aid margin expansion.
Breon Corcoran 
Chief Executive Officer
‘ We ARe s eeing Mo Me ntu M Bu ild f Ro M 
e ARl y success.’ 
BRe on co Rco RAn , ch ief e x ecutive o f fice R 
At our Interim results we announced a plan to turnaround Betfair’s 
performance and I can report that the business has made excellent 
progress against that plan and that the Group is now in a far 
stronger position for higher quality and sustainable growth.
Overview of results
Revenue was broadly flat year on year at £387.0m and ahead  
of our previous guidance range (£370m to £385m). 
Underlying EBITDA of £73.3m was also higher than our guidance 
(£65m to £70m), driven primarily by the better revenue performance.
The impact of regulation in Greece, Germany, Cyprus and the 
withdrawal of the Exchange in Spain was a significant drag on revenues. 
This was mitigated through an increase in revenues from sustainable 
jurisdictions, helped by the successful launch of our Sportsbook. 
Betfair continues to be highly cash generative with underlying 
free cash flow of £50.2m. The Group’s balance sheet was further 
strengthened in the year through the sale of our non-strategic holding 
in Kabam for £18.8m. In April we acquired certain assets of  
Blue Square for £5.0m cash to expedite the growth of our new 
Sportsbook. The business remains debt free and had £168.1m of cash 
(excluding ring-fenced client funds of £284.1m) at 30 April 2013. 
T urnaround plan
Achieving profitable scale in sustainable markets is the aim  
of our plan. To do this we have had to make significant changes 
to Betfair’s strategy, management, structure and culture. 
The business is focused on growing regulated revenues; investing in its 
products and brand; becoming a leaner and more dynamic organisation; 
and making disciplined use of our balance sheet to accelerate growth. 
We have ceased direct acquisition marketing investment in 
countries with insufficient regulatory visibility. We therefore expect 
regulated jurisdictions to contribute an increasing proportion of 
future revenues. Whilst reducing unregulated revenues has held 
back revenue growth in the near-term, it moves us towards a more 
sustainable future. We are already seeing an increase in the quality 
of revenues, with 75% of Q4 FY13 revenues coming from 
sustainable jurisdictions, up from 67% in Q4 FY12.
s t RAt egic Revi e W
ce o Revie W
