 2 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Regulation
As with all businesses in our industry, regulation provides 
challenges and opportunities. Adverse regulatory changes in the 
year meant we restricted access to our products in a number of 
countries in which we had previously built up significant businesses. 
Recent positive regulatory changes in Italy, Spain and the USA are 
welcomed and Betfair will continue to strive to grow sustainable 
revenues in countries with sensible regulatory regimes. 
Board
During the year, Stephen Morana stepped down from his role  
as an Executive Director on the Board. Stephen had held a 
number of roles over ten years at the Company, notably Chief 
Financial Officer and interim Chief Executive Officer. In October, 
Baroness Denise Kingsmill resigned as a Non-Executive Director 
and, as previously announced, Josh Hannah has informed the 
Board of his intention to step down in the coming months.  
I would like to thank all three for their substantial contributions  
to the Company.
In addition to Breon Corcoran, I am delighted to welcome 
Alexander Gersh as our new Chief Financial Officer (CFO),  
and Peter Jackson as a Non-Executive Director and member  
of the Audit Committee. Both bring with them a wealth  
of experience in competitive, international, growth businesses  
and will be valuable additions to our Company.
Dividend
As indicated at the time of our interim results the Directors plan  
to maintain a progressive and sustainable dividend policy with  
an appropriate level of dividend cover. This dividend policy 
reflects the strong cash flow characteristics and long-term 
earnings potential of the Betfair Group and will allow it to retain 
sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating requirements and 
continued investment for long-term growth. 
The Board considers the appropriate target payout ratio  
to be approximately 40% of underlying profit after tax  
in the medium term. 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 9.0 pence, which 
results in a full year dividend up 27% to 13.0 pence per share.
Recent events
In April we received an approach to take Betfair private.  
A number of proposals were put to the Board, all of which  
were rejected. Betfair has struggled in its early years as a public 
company, but the Board believes it now has the management  
and the strategy to succeed and that the early signs are positive.  
During the discussions, our capital structure and cash balances,  
and their implication for our cost of capital, were considered.  
The Board was able to confirm its commitment to using them  
to support the executive team in executing its strategy and in  
this way to move to a more efficient balance sheet. Our new  
team has only just begun the process of transforming Betfair and  
it is this that will ultimately realise the best value for shareholders. 
Finally the Board and I would like to thank Betfair’s employees  
for their hard work and commitment over the past year. I continue  
to be impressed by the passion and enthusiasm within the business.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
Dear Shareholder,
Having enjoyed tremendous growth over its first decade,  
the Company failed to maintain this momentum in the first  
few years of its public market life. Faced with some serious 
challenges in a highly competitive market, the Company had  
to change course or risk losing further ground to our competitors. 
This turnaround required a strong leadership team and a strategy 
to return the business to growth. I am happy to say that the 
business now has both.
Strategy
Breon Corcoran joined as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) in August 
and outlined a new strategic direction for Betfair in December. 
We are now investing only in markets with regulatory visibility 
and are introducing a simpler product offering to appeal to  
a wider customer base. At the same time, Betfair is becoming  
a leaner, more dynamic organisation. We have a new management 
team in place with many highly talented additions with relevant 
track records of delivering growth. Under their leadership much 
has already been achieved and the foundations of positive change  
have been laid.
Financial performance
The financial performance in the year has been encouraging  
in difficult circumstances. We have begun the essential process  
of replacing unregulated revenues with revenue from regulated 
jurisdictions. While this affects growth in the short term,  
the quality of earnings is higher. 
Importantly, cash flow was strong and we ended the year debt 
free and with £168.1m of cash.
‘ i AM delighted Wi th the st ARt t he ne W 
MAn Ag e Me nt te AM h As MAd e in tu Rn ing 
the Bu siness ARo und.’ 
 g e RAl d co RBe tt, ch Ai RMAn o v e Rvie W
ch Ai RMAn ’s s t Ate Me nt
