 STRATEGIC REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
DEAR SHAREHOLDER
This has been an important year for Betfair, with the Company 
showing great momentum and entering a phase of exciting 
innovation in both its product and brand. This is the first full  
year of our new and energetic management team. There is  
real purpose in the business and we are executing a strategy  
that is focused on delivering sustainable growth.
It is over a year since discussions with the private equity group 
CVC were terminated and in that time we have been able to see 
the value that the new team and strategy will be able to produce. 
There is much to be done, and many challenges ahead, but a good 
start has been made.
Strategy
Betfair’s strategy has been to refocus the business on regulated 
jurisdictions whilst refreshing our unique product and brand so  
we have greater appeal to a wider range of customers. 
We have continued to see signs of success on both fronts. Betfair 
has always been a unique betting company and it remains so. 
Following recent product innovations, we are now steadily building 
a highly exciting sports betting platform and have increased our 
marketing spend to take it to a wider audience. 
We now concentrate investment in markets with regulatory visibility 
and have subsequently been able to focus our resources on growing 
our active customer base in key territories. Sustainable revenues 
now make up far more of our total revenue base, lending the 
business stability and significantly improving our quality of earnings. 
We have started to use our strong cash position to make selected 
investments in some promising international opportunities, with 
exciting developments in New Jersey and Italy coming within the year.
Financial performance
The financial performance in the year has been encouraging, 
with double-digit growth in sustainable revenues in the last three 
quarters. Overall revenue was up 2% to £393.6m, with growth 
diluted by the reduction in revenue from other markets, in line 
with our strategy. The cost savings we announced last year have 
been delivered and this contributed to underlying EBITDA growth 
of 24% to £91.1m. 
Cash flow remains strong and we ended the year debt free and 
with £209.8m of cash.
Regulation
As with all businesses in our industry, the constantly evolving 
regulatory landscape provides both opportunities and challenges. 
This year, as a result of positive regulatory change, we have been 
able to launch an online casino in New Jersey and an Exchange in 
Italy, the latter the culmination of several years of hard work. The 
industry is likely to see significant disruption in the coming year as 
the effect of the incoming Point of Consumption tax in the UK plays 
out. We expect operators with scale, like Betfair, to be best placed 
to adapt to this change. In unregulated markets, visibility remains 
low, validating our strategy of focusing on regulated jurisdictions. 
Board
There have been a number of changes to Betfair’s Board over the 
year, with the addition of significant experience from major PLC 
and digital consumer businesses. 
Mike McTighe, Fru Hazlitt and Josh Hannah have all stepped 
down from the Board. They all served as Non-Executive Directors 
of Betfair with distinction for a long period of time, and we thank 
them again for their invaluable contribution over the years. We 
have welcomed to the Board Zillah Byng-Maddick, CEO of Future 
plc; Leo Quinn, CEO of QinetiQ Group plc; and Peter Rigby, 
former CEO of Informa plc as Non-Executive Directors. All three 
are already proving to be valuable additions to the Company.
Dividend
The Board targets a progressive and sustainable dividend 
and continues to consider the appropriate payout ratio to be 
approximately 40% of profit after tax in the medium term. 
This dividend policy reflects the strong cash flow characteristics 
and long-term earnings potential of the Betfair Group, whilst 
allowing it to retain sufficient capital to fund ongoing operating 
requirements and investment. The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 14.0 pence per share, taking the full year dividend to 
20.0 pence per share, a 54% increase on last year.
Finally, the Board and I would like to thank all Betfair’s employees for 
their hard work and commitment over the past year. Betfair is a vibrant 
place to work, full of enthusiasm, and I am delighted that their efforts 
are starting to be recognised in improved business performance.
Gerald Corbett  
Chairman 
11 June 2014
‘ BETFAIR HAS ALWAYS BEEN  
A UNIQUE BETTING COMPANY 
AND IT REMAINS SO.’
Gerald Corbett, Chairman
To read more about Governance see page 36
4 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
