 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
In December 2012 we announced a strategy to turnaround 
Betfair’s performance: moving the business onto a more 
sustainable revenue base; investing in our product and brand so 
that we could address the wider recreational market; and using 
our strong balance sheet to access growth opportunities as and 
when they emerge.  
1
FOCUS ON 
SUSTAINABLE 
REVENUES
2
INVEST IN 
OUR PRODUCT 
AND BRAND
3
ACCELERATE 
GROWTH 
THROUGH 
INTERNATIONAL 
OPPORTUNITIES
Page 12 Page 10 Page 8
LEAN, DYNAMIC, INNOVATION DRIVEN
 
Our belief was that Betfair had significant potential but that its 
product and brand needed adapting to appeal more to the mass 
market, and the business itself needed to operate more efficiently 
to fund the investment required to grow our customer base and 
revenues in sustainable markets. 
Following the encouraging early developments announced in 
FY13, we are pleased that Betfair has this year been able to 
switch gears and start making significant progress towards  
our strategic objectives. 
Overview of results
Revenue of £393.6m (FY13: £387.0m) reflected strong growth  
in Sportsbook and Betfair US, partly offset by a weak Gaming 
performance. This result included significant adverse impacts from 
market exits (£13.3m) and the absence of a major international 
football tournament (£7.8m from Euro 2012). 
Underlying EBITDA was up 24% to £91.1m (FY13: £73.3m). 
The improvement in profitability was driven primarily by cost 
savings, which were in excess of our £30m target. This, along 
with lower depreciation and amortisation, resulted in underlying 
basic earnings per share increasing by 57% to 49.0 pence 
(FY13: 31.2 pence).
The Group ended the year with a cash balance of £209.8m 
(FY13: £168.1m) and no debt.
Strategy update
Betfair’s objective is to achieve profitable scale in sustainable 
markets and during FY14 we have continued to focus Betfair’s 
marketing activities towards licensed operations. As a result the 
business faces substantially less regulatory risk. Sustainable 
markets (defined as the UK, Ireland, Denmark, Malta, Gibraltar 
and US) now contribute 78% of Group revenues (FY13: 72%). 
Sustainable revenues were up 9% over the year, with growth 
across all products. This contrasts markedly with revenue from 
other markets, which was down 18%.
We believe that the key to winning in our target markets is 
to create differentiated products that give Betfair customers 
unique advantages over those using other brands. Betfair is 
now in a position to do this through integrating its Exchange 
and Sportsbook, both of which possess functionality that, when 
put together, can create a truly unique sports betting platform. 
We are now making significant investment to develop products 
that enable every customer to access the full range of both 
platforms. To this end, this year has seen us launch new products 
that are rapidly changing the traditional Sportsbook model: 
• The ability to Cash Out both singles and accumulator 
Sportsbook bets brings a concept historically only available on 
the Exchange to new customer segments and is redefining the 
boundaries of how customers bet on live sport. 
• Our recent launch of Price Rush, a simple product feature that 
boosts the odds offered to Sportsbook customers by matching 
their bets seamlessly on the Exchange. 
‘ WE BELIEVE THAT THE KEY TO 
WINNING IN OUR TARGET MARKET  
IS TO CREATE DIFFERENTIATED 
PRODUCTS THAT GIVE BETFAIR 
CUSTOMERS UNIQUE ADVANTAGES 
OVER THOSE USING OTHER BRANDS.’
Breon Corcoran, Chief Executive Officer
To read more about Strategy see pages 7 to 13
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 5 UK&I ACTIVATIONS UK&I ACTIVES UK&I REVENUE
FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11
+54%
+60%
-19%
+35%
+21%
-10%
+8%
+8%
+6%
STRATEGIC REPORT  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Through integrating our products we believe we can restore 
Betfair to its position as a disruptive frontrunner within a market 
where differentiation between operators is otherwise almost 
non-existent. Integration provides inherent benefits to our ongoing 
business. Recreational customers who might not always take the 
time to learn the functionality of the Exchange can now access it, 
and in doing so, they increase liquidity on the Exchange.
The ongoing integration of these two products means we will  
report a combined Sports revenue number in FY15.
The product successes mean we will continue to invest over  
£100m in sales and marketing this year, including entering high 
profile partnerships with Channel 4 Racing, Sky Sports and ITV 
Sport, accompanied by investment in social channels. Our brand 
messaging seeks to place Betfair at the heart of the excitement 
generated around live sport and we are a Gold partner of ITV’s 
World Cup football coverage, enabling us to target a significant 
recreational audience at the world’s most watched sporting event. 
The early results of our product and brand investment have  
been encouraging. We have seen sustained increases in  
our customer acquisition numbers in UK and Ireland (up 54% 
year on year). This has driven strong growth in Betfair’s active 
customer base, with UK and Ireland active customer numbers up 
35% in FY14. The increase in customer numbers has in turn driven 
double-digit growth in sustainable revenues in each of the last 
three quarters. Mobile continues to be a key channel and revenue 
was up 70% following a 50% increase in active mobile customers.
We are focused on achieving sustainable international expansion 
and have therefore been encouraged by the launches of both  
our online casino in New Jersey and our Exchange in Italy,  
two markets which we believe possess attractive long-term 
characteristics. Whilst it is very early days for both products,  
we believe our 8% share of the New Jersey casino market to 
date represents a fair start and that our Italian Exchange, which 
is the first into the new market, offers a compelling experience  
for sports bettors in Italy. 
Betfair’s strategic objectives are supported by our ongoing  
drive to become a leaner, more dynamic organisation. In FY13,  
we undertook a thorough review of our cost base and identified  
a number of areas where the business could become leaner and 
we delivered £33m of cost savings in FY14. This has led to 
improved margins and is enabling us to make further investments 
in product and marketing to drive future revenue growth.
Outlook
Betfair operates in an uncertain marketplace where many 
governments, including in the UK, are either introducing or 
contemplating new regulatory or fiscal arrangements. Whilst this 
makes any future predictions on financial performance difficult, our 
strategy is working and the business is seeing good momentum. 
Outside of our sustainable jurisdictions, we continue to expect 
regulatory uncertainty and declining revenue as a result of lack 
of investment and market exits. Our best estimate is that revenues 
in other markets will reduce by between 15% and 25% per 
annum. However, we remain confident that we can grow 
sustainable revenues in line with the online market growth rate. 
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 35 is approved by the  
Board and signed on its behalf by:
Breon Corcoran
Chief Executive Officer 
11 June 2014
Betfair has momentum in UK and Ireland
6 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
