 This is my first annual report to shareholders since BETonSPORTS plc became a public limited
company. I welcome the many new shareholders who supported our flotation as well as those who
have acquired shares in the market subsequently.
Your company was successfully admitted to AIM on 15th July 2004, raising some $44m net of
expenses. Much has happened since then. The issues that faced the entire USA sports betting
industry in November 2004 (NFL results against the long term trend and unexpected advertising
restrictions) provided a significant challenge for the management team. However, acting
immediately we undertook a stringent review of procedures, people and marketing avenues. We
are confident that these management actions will make BETonSPORTS a stronger company going
forward.
As expected, the results for the full year were affected adversely by these trading problems.
Margins recovered in the final weeks of the year and profit before tax was $13.3m (2004 -$27.0m).
The Chief Executive’s Review on pages 7 to 14 contains a full commentary on the results.
At flotation we raised $44m to fund our planned expansion. Our strategy and objectives were, and
remain to grow the BETonSPORTS business through a mixture of organic growth including product
development (e.g. poker), regional expansion in Central, South America and Asia and well planned
acquisitions of profitable businesses providing greater geographical spread for our activities. 
I am pleased to report that good progress has been achieved organically: BOS Poker was
launched successfully in October 2004 (and earned $0.7m in the period). Our proof of concept
operation in Guatemala, launched in December 2004, is performing satisfactorily and has given us
valuable insight into the issues arising from land based terminals. In Mexico, our partnership with
a regional bingo operator established in March 2005 is already showing strong signs of excellent
future potential.
Our acquisition programme is also beginning to take shape. As envisaged at flotation we
completed our acquisition (for $25.0m) of the 49% balance of the Millennium companies which
BETonSPORTS did not already own. The integration of this business with our main operation is
proceeding well. We continue to review strategically beneficial potential acquisitions. 
The key requirement is to find acquisitions which are compatible with our core business, profit
enhancing, risk reducing and which offer opportunities for cross selling and synergies.
Our business is focused on providing an entertainment experience to our customers. We strive to
offer an exciting and pleasurable experience to the recreational gambler, whether that individual is
interested in sportsbooks, on-line casino games, poker or proposition betting. With an average bet
size of $109 ($72 over the Internet and $201 by telephone) it is clear that most of our customers
meet this description. Such customers are important to us and we direct considerable effort to
retaining them and improving their enjoyment. To help with this process we are undertaking major
enhancements to our technology platform to improve both the playing experience and our
customer relationship management (CRM) procedures.
We believe in promoting ethical and responsible gaming and have campaigned actively for
regulation in the sector. We believe legislation would make it easier to protect the consumer,
prevent crime and deliver valuable economic stimulus to the legislating territories. At the same time
we support many help organisations and charities such as Gamcare based in the UK and 800.org
based in New Jersey, USA. Our own procedures for risk management include rigorous controls to
prevent abuse, money laundering, under age gaming, etc.
5
BETonSPORTS plc
Chairman’s statement The BETonSPORTS business depends on the goodwill and support of its outstanding team of
people. I take this opportunity to thank them all for their dedication and I look forward to working
with them in the future as the business develops for the combined benefit of both shareholders and
staff. The employee benefit trust and share option schemes have been created to reward loyalty,
commitment and success, and effective use has been made of them already.
We are in an exciting and growing market. We continue to strengthen our management team. The
high profile board appointments of Clive Archer, as Operations and Marketing Director, who will be
responsible for directing day to day activities, and Richard Creed, Commercial Director whose role
will be to assess new business and commercial opportunities are part of this ongoing process.
I am also pleased to welcome Christopher Callaway to the Board as an additional Non-Executive
Director with effect from 24 May 2005.
We are extending our core business into new territories, expanding into new geographical areas,
developing new products and improving our technology for the benefit of our customers. The
opportunities are outstanding and your Board is very confident about the future business and
profitability of BETonSPORTS.
24 May 2005
Clive A Parritt
Chairman
6
BETonSPORTS plc
Chairman’s statement
