 2 Bett Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement
Iain Bett Chairman
8 November 2002
The year was one of outstanding progress based on signiﬁcant
expansion and increasing focus. Group turnover (including share
of joint ventures) rose to £116m from £91m in 2001, a major 
step up in activity. 
Group pre-tax proﬁts at £17.2m were 71% ahead of 2001 (£10.1m)
being another record year . Each of our divisions has delivered an
excellent result. Operating proﬁts in Housing were £15.3m (2001 –
£8.9m) an increase of 72% and in Property operating proﬁts of
£5.1m compared with £2.9m in 2001, a rise of 77%. 
Overall basic earnings per share of 87.0p were up by 63% from
53.3p in 2001.
We have been following a strategy consistently for many years of
expanding each of our core businesses of housing and property
development. Our basic challenge was to replace the contribution
from Bett Inns, which was sold at the end of last year and this 
has been substantially exceeded.
The market in housing has been supported by low interest rates 
and strong demand. I am pleased with our increased activity, 
having sold 916 units in 2002 compared with 644 units in 2001. 
Most importantly this has been combined with higher proﬁtability 
and an enhancing of our reputation in each area. 
The market was much more subdued in commercial property.
Nevertheless as well as achieving a considerable proﬁt contribution
we continued to build a strong foundation for the future by fostering
long-term joint venture relationships.
Outlook We anticipate that our markets will continue to provide 
a satisfactory environment and an opportunity for future growth.
There has of course been considerable speculation on the future of
the housing market and the economy in general. We recognise that
there may be a slowdown particularly in some areas for example in
the South East which have seen very signiﬁcant rises but where the
economy is more volatile. However we believe that the combination
of continuing high employment and low interest rates, an improving
economy and reasonable affordability together with our strong 
land bank will provide a platform for further sensible expansion.
This is reinforced by a strong forward sales position where we have
recorded almost 700 forward sales for the current year.
Our portfolio of deals in commercial property is well spread
although market conditions and timing may result in a satisfactory
but more average return.
Our balance sheet gearing at the year end was 29% which will 
support a further stepping up of activity in this new year.
Dividend We continue to seek to balance a progressive dividend 
policy with sensible funding for growth. In all the circumstances the
Board is recommending a ﬁnal dividend of 11.00p, an increase of 19%
making a total of 15.20p for the year . The total dividend is covered 
5.6 times.
My thanks are due to all those who have worked in our teams 
and whose efforts and commitment have produced such a
successful year.
