 During 2016 Acacia delivered against  
its primary objective of delivering  
free cash flow generation.
Kelvin d ushnis Ky
CHaIRMaN OF THE BOaRD
“2016 was a strong year for acacia  
as we began to reap the benefits  
from the changes that we have  
driven across the business.”
Dear shareholders,
2016 was a pleasing year for acacia as the Company 
delivered against our primary objective of generating 
free cash flow as the benefits of the changes at the 
operations flowed through the business. It was a 
record year in several ways as Group production of 
829,705 ounces was the highest that the business 
has ever achieved. This, in turn, was driven by record 
production at North Mara of 378,443 ounces, aided 
by a full year of operations at the Gokona underground 
operation. This is now the fourth consecutive year  
we have delivered an increase in production, from 
what was seen as a mature asset base, and we  
are guiding for a fifth year of growth in 2017 . 
On the cost front, we saw a downward step change, driven in part by 
increased production, but also by the major restructuring of the workforce 
in Q4 2015. Over the past four years, we have taken over uS$600 per 
ounce out of our all-in sustaining cost through the transformation of each 
of our assets. This has meant that the business has moved from a position 
of considerable cash outflow, to one that doubled its net cash position  
to uS$218 million during 2016.
The turnaround of the business, coupled with supporting tailwinds, meant 
that the share price performed extremely strongly during 2016, rising 
108% over the year, with a peak at 598p in august. Geopolitical events 
through the year, including the result of the referendum on the uK’s 
membership of the Eu, speculation over the timing of interest rate rises  
in the uS, and rising political tensions provided support for the gold price 
over the first ten months of the year and meant that our net realised gold 
price averaged uS$1,240 per ounce for the year, was nearly 5% higher 
than in 2015. However, following the united States Presidential election 
and a uS interest rate rise in December there was a correction in the  
gold price and it ended the year at uS$1,145 per ounce.
board composition
There have been no significant changes to Board composition in 2016. 
This year we revisited Board Committee composition to ensure that the 
membership of each Board Committee is best aligned to acacia’s needs. 
as a result of this review, we have decided to alter the composition of 
our audit and EHS&S Committees, with composition changes applying 
from 2017. Further details of these changes are provided as part of the 
Governance overview on page 60. 
chair Man’s state Ment
4 Ac Aci A Mining Plc Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2016 6
3
Non-independent
Independent
Board independence
8
1
Female
Male
Board diversity
1
2
4
2
Geology
Engineering
Financial
African and regional affairs
Board skills
f inal dividend
Our dividend policy is based on cash flow in order to ensure that it is closely 
aligned with the focus on cash generation from the business. as a result 
we aim to pay a dividend of between 15-30% of our operational cash flow, 
after sustaining capital and capitalised development, but before expansion 
capital and financing costs.
In line with this policy, in July we declared an interim dividend of 2.0 cents 
per share, which was a 43% increase on 2015. as a result of strong 
performance in the second half of the year, we are pleased to recommend 
a final dividend of 8.4 cents per share. This represents a full year payout  
of 10.4 cents per share, or uS$43 million, which is at the top of the payout 
range and 147% higher than 2015. The decision to recommend a dividend 
at the top of the range reflects the confidence we have in the business, the 
significant free cash flow the Company generated in 2016 and the fact that 
we are able to fund out of free cash flow the organic projects currently in 
our pipeline. We believe the distribution of capital to our shareholders is  
a key differentiator for acacia and continues our track record of providing 
strong total returns to our shareholders across the cycle. 
outlook
The delivery from our business during 2016 is a result of the hard work 
that has been undertaken across the Company. This does not mean that 
we have completed the transformation and we continue to work to optimise 
our asset base and to overcome challenges inherent to this business.
Looking forward to 2017, we expect to see further improvements across 
the asset base, with an increase in production and further reduction in 
costs. This improvement is being led by Buzwagi as a result of the 
optimisation of the final year of mining in order to drive cash flow for the 
business. We will continue to develop the operational stability at Bulyanhulu 
as we look to fully unlock the geological potential of the mine, and at North 
Mara, we believe the extensive drilling programmes currently underway  
will demonstrate the quality and longevity of what is becoming a leading 
asset in africa. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to acknowledge all acacia employees for 
their hard work during the year. I would also like to express my appreciation 
to our shareholders for their continued support for the Company.
kelvin dushnisky
Chairman of the Board
relevant pages 
p60
Governance overview
effective governance
Our Directors have considerable knowledge and 
experience of the mining industry and bring other 
relevant experience to the Board to assist acacia  
in achieving its strategic goals.
Kelvin dushnisky 
Chairman of the Board 
brad gordon 
Chief Executive Officer 
peter tomsett 
Senior Independent  
Non-Executive Director
andre f alzon 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
ambassador Juma v. Mwapachu 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
Michael Kenyon 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
r achel english 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
steve l ucas 
Independent  
Non-Executive Director
stephen g albraith 
Non-Executive Director 
p60
governance overview
5 Ac Aci A Mining Plc Annu Al Repo Rt & Accounts 2016
str Ategic re Port
