 accesso Technology Group plc 
5 
 
Chairman’s statement 
 
Success at scale 
 
2016 has been another successful year for accesso. The Group has depth in its leadership team and has a comprehensive suite of products 
that lead in the markets it currently serves. This year has seen the Group continue to develop its global aspirations, expanding into new 
geographies and further embedding itself in the markets it has historically served. From established relationships in North America to 
flourishing ones in Europe, and from a rapidly growing customer base in South America to a burgeoning presence in Australia, accesso 
continues to serve its customers both as a technology partner and revenue enabler, gaining the trust and confidence of some of the largest 
and most ambitious operators in the industry.  
 
The Group’s financial performance reflects accesso’s circumstances well. This year, accesso achieved adjusted EBITDA of $19.1m, which 
amounts to growth of 25.7% year-on-year. This performance reflects increasing operational leverage as the Group gains scale, and has 
been delivered despite a significant ongoing investment in our core platforms and infrastructure as well as an accelerated development 
relating to accesso Prism, the most technologically advanced smart park wearable device available today. These investments reflect the 
Group’s ongoing commitment to look to the future, and to ensure it remains ahead of its competition from a technology and product 
standpoint. The strides made already have contributed to the high-quality performance delivered in 2016, while work currently underway, 
including our progress in relation to the transformational agreement with Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd, promises an even greater 
acceleration in the future.   
 
Earning the right 
 
Our long-term investment strategy is underpinned by the platform we have built. Through acquisition and organically, we have worked 
hard to shape a business that offers queuing, ticketing, point-of-sale and guest management solutions across a wide range of leisure 
markets, and builds products that can serve clients at any stage of development. Moreover, the breadth of our offering is increasing the 
number of accesso customers who now take more than one service from the Group, blending our ticketing and queuing heritage to take 
us beyond a product-by-product selling strategy and towards a more solutions-based approach. As a result, we are becoming more deeply 
embedded with our customers and this, combined with our enduring commercial model, allows us to plan more strategically about the 
future.  
 
Mapping out the future 
 
Whilst we continue to make strong progress, there is more to do. This year, for example, we have seen tremendous advances in the 
globalisation of our accesso Passport ticketing suite and we have launched accesso Prism which we believe takes us close to realising our 
ambition of enabling an entirely queueless park. Looking ahead, we believe there are other opportunities to acquire complementary 
technologies which will help drive improved guest experience and revenues for our customers and we continue to actively evaluate these.  
 
Our team 
 
As ever, none of this would be possible without an exceptional group of people working together. accesso employees continue to outdo 
themselves, working tirelessly to face and overcome the complex challenges of providing market leading technology and superior service. 
On behalf of the Board, I thank them once again for their efforts.  
 
2017 so far 
 
The Group has started 2017 in good order. We are on schedule with planned installations and our current direction of travel indicates the 
beginnings of another good year. That said, the key trading months are ahead of us and will take place in the context of an extremely strong 
comparator first half from 2016. Nevertheless, we believe fully in our prospects, and look forward to the rest of the year with confidence.   
 
Tom Burnet 
Executive Chairman  
  
