 accesso Technology Group plc 
6 
 
Chief Executive’s statement 
 
Operational Review 
 
accesso is a truly global business, currently serving clients in 27 countries across the globe. We now stand before current and prospective 
customers as a mature and balanced Group capable of solving problems and thinking across product lines to provide the best solutions 
available in the market.  
 
During 2016, a significant amount of thought, work and capital has been invested in the business. Firstly, this relates to the investment 
required in executing the transformational agreement with Merlin Entertainments Group Ltd, to roll accesso Passport out across its entire 
estate. This work has already taken us a considerable way in our rollout at Merlin sites, and is all about enhancing our operating capability 
to exceed their high expectations, ensuring we make the most of the significant opportunity it lays out before us.  
 
The second major investment has been in accesso Prism, a significant step forward for our entire industry when it comes to in-park wearable 
technology. Queueing is our heritage at accesso, and it is fitting that the idea that underpins our business lives on in this latest product 
evolution. It is also fitting that while queueing is at the foundation of both Group and product, accesso Prism also reminds us how far we’ve 
come. Its expansive capabilities incorporate a range of elements that build on the original idea in the same way accesso has done, overlaying 
the core queueing functionality with state-of-the-art technologies that complement it. We are enormously excited about accesso Prism 
and what it says about the way we approach technology leadership at accesso. As we continue to improve our business on all fronts, we 
can look forward to an exciting future. 
 
Our People 
 
As accesso expands, attracting and retaining the best talent in the industry is becoming all-the-more important. We take this aspect of our 
growth extremely seriously, and think with as much energy about our people as we do any other aspect of our business. Our ambition is to 
create a highly motivated, mobile and collaborative workforce, which, like the Group we currently have, is capable of generating the ideas 
and energy that keep us ahead of our competition.  
 
This year, we have taken a number of steps to reaffirm our commitment to our people. These include the implementation of Workplace 
(Facebook at Work) to improve intra-Group, global communication, the piloting of accesso core competencies and career path planning, 
and the start of cross-product and cross-country work assignments which have led to four employees taking temporary assignments in 
different countries, and four employees permanently transferring into a different part of the business. We also implemented iValue, a peer 
recognition programme, undertook our second annual global employee engagement survey, with 99% participation and supported 
engagement with the local communities by offering employees paid volunteer time annually to a charitable organisation of their choice. 
All in all, we hired and onboarded 82 new employees in 2016, bringing our non-seasonal employee count at the end of the year to 362. I 
want to thank each of them for their commitment and outstanding performance as we move into 2017.  
 
accesso LoQueue 
 
2016 was a solid year for accesso’s queueing products, achieving a number of important new wins and delivering improved results against 
a backdrop of unfavourable weather conditions at the beginning of H2. Most notable among the new wins were Denmark’s LEGOLAND® 
Billund and the Schlitterbahn Waterpark and Resort in Texas, while in H2, the three-year agreement with Village Roadshow Theme Parks 
to install accesso LoQueue at Wet’n’Wild Sydney marked an important further expansion for the Group in the Asia-Pacific region. Each of 
these contracts were won at venues in different continents reflects accesso’s growing global footprint and strengthening international 
brand. Our win in Australia follows accesso’s 2014 agreement to install Qsmart
SM
 at Malaysia’s newest theme park, the Movie Animation 
Park Studios in Ipoh. accesso continues to focus on the Asia-Pacific region, and has appointed a regional MD to oversee progress there. The 
Wet’n’Wild agreement was also a good example of accesso expanding a relationship with an existing customer, as Wet’n’Wild became the 
second Village Roadshow venue to leverage the accesso Qband product.  
 
As a result of its expanding footprint, albeit offset by the challenge of weather, total guest revenue in accesso LoQueue was up 5.7%, on 
the back of a stable average revenue per guest.  
 
Perhaps most significantly within accesso LoQueue, in November 2016 the Group unveiled accesso Prism, the new smart-park wearable 
device, the most technologically advanced device of its kind available today. The device includes a range of capabilities, from virtual 
queueing and payments to park access and guest intelligence for operators. These are all capabilities that position accesso as the technology 
provider of choice for tomorrow’s attractions, allowing venues to increase the volume and range of in-park spending and to drive increased 
transaction-based revenue for the Group. We look forward to the first site rollout of accesso Prism in early Summer 2017. 
 
accesso Passport 
 
During 2016, accesso Passport has reaffirmed its position at the heart of the Group’s growth. Across the platform, total volumes were up 
30% year-on-year reflecting the continued roll-out of our agreement with Merlin and new contract wins including the Jameson Distillery, 
The Henry Ford Museum and The Philadelphia Museum of Art. Moreover, we continue to experience the rapid shift in consumer behavior   accesso Technology Group plc 
7 
 
Chief Executive’s statement (continued) 
 
towards mobile, accounting for 38% of total transactions, up from 25% in 2015. accesso continues to benefit from its early sense that the 
transition to mobile would only accelerate, and has developed the accesso Passport platform to work seamlessly across mobile devices so 
consumers can shop in their own time, in comfort and well in advance of their visit.  
 
Beyond mobile, our ticketing platform’s functionality has also been improved in terms of fraud prevention, client support and technology 
functionality.  As a result of the improvement, during 2016 these improvements we were able to successfully prevent more than $10m in 
fraudulent transactions on behalf of our customers, fulfill beyond 27,000 client service requests and have our accesso Passport point-of-
sale solution certified to the highest standards for payment applications as per the Payment Card Industry Security Standards Council. We 
also introduced accesso Passport Control, a module providing a modernised, easy-to-use interface for our clients to manage all their 
ticketing business. This new product allows users to create and modify ticket products and pricing, adjust capacity around timed products 
and much more. Lastly, the introduction of our new accesso Passport Exchange solution has provided our clients with significantly expanded 
capabilities to reach resellers, trade partners, and other 3rd parties to more fully leverage their sales networks.  
 
During 2016, accesso Passport has also continued to be a focal point for the Group’s cross-selling activity. The Group regularly seeks 
opportunities to increase the number of accesso products taken by a single operator, and this year we have seen several installations where 
accesso Passport has been combined with accesso Siriusware to provide operators with more comprehensive solutions to meet their needs. 
The combination of ticketing, point-of-sale and guest management solutions is a particularly compelling one, and the Group continues to 
pursue avenues where the two products can be deployed together. To date, the combination has been particularly successful in our 
museum and ski resort clients, and as a result, we have undertaken an in-depth evaluation of the ski market with the goal of improving the 
way we integrate these two important solutions. This has seen a significant improvement in our understanding of this market, and a number 
of tailored enhancements to the product as a result.  
 
The planned investment to right-size accesso Passport for the Merlin rollout has also been progressing to plan during 2016. The platform 
has been enhanced to deal with the myriad requirements associated with a global rollout of this nature, which itself has been progressing 
well.  
  
accesso Siriusware 
 
accesso Siriusware fared well in 2016, winning 9 new clients during the year. Perhaps even more notably, 2016 was the year that accesso 
Siriusware won its first contract in the European market through our agreement with the long-term accesso LoQueue customer, Blackpool 
Pleasure Beach. This success was quickly followed by a further agreement with Jameson Distillery, which will operate onsite alongside 
accesso Passport for ecommerce. We now have seven same-site integrations of accesso Passport and accesso Siriusware, with an eighth to 
follow in the first half of 2017.   
 
accesso Siriusware continues to be successful in adding Ski clients to its roster, yet the Blackpool Pleasure Beach agreement also reflects 
the product’s growing ability outside its core Ski market and helps the Group move into new markets and geographies. NLand Surf Park in 
Austin, Texas and the Catalina Island Conservancy in California are good examples of client wins from across industries, showing accesso 
Siriusware’s continued appeal.  
 
accesso ShoWare 
 
In May 2016, we completed the rebranding of ShoWare to accesso ShoWare, completing the brand’s integration into the accesso Group. 
During that process, we have nearly doubled accesso ShoWare’s sales force, and consolidated its sales and marketing group into the single 
joined up team that spans the entire Group. Since the acquisition in 2014, accesso ShoWare has acquired new business quickly, taking 
accesso into the assigned-seating market and opening the Group up to a new type of customer: the event promoter or organiser.  Good 
examples of this new success come from Mexico, where we continue to make progress into the exciting sports market, now providing 
ticketing services for three major league soccer teams.  
 
This year, accesso ShoWare won 51 new contracts, some which continue the cross-selling theme by coming from customers already taking 
other accesso servicess. For example, Six Flags’ La Ronde theme park (accesso Passport & accesso LoQueue), Longwood Gardens (accesso 
Siriusware) and Taos Center for the Arts (accesso Siriusware) all became accesso ShoWare customers in 2016, providing further evidence 
that the potential for cross-sell in accesso’s portfolio stretches right across our offering.  
 
Importantly, accesso ShoWare has a significant opportunity to differentiate from the competition by leveraging the brand and expertise 
within the wider Group. In this regard, a number of product enhancements have already been rolled out in the business, including an 
integrated marketing campaign manager, a streamlined checkout system and enhanced language support. With the integration now 
complete, we are delighted to report that the start of the process has exceeded our expectations, and we look forward to progressing with 
accesso ShoWare in the coming years.  
 
 
  accesso Technology Group plc 
8 
 
Chief Executive’s statement (continued) 
 
Striding in to 2017 
 
Beyond the period-end, all business lines are showing good momentum. In terms of new business, we have already signed a range of new 
customers including ten for accesso ShoWare, the CNN Studio Tour in Atlanta for accesso Passport and a major Canadian visitor attraction 
for accesso Siriusware. We have also completed the first production run of our new accesso Prism devices, and have commenced its first 
onsite installation. That installation is scheduled to go live early in the summer of 2017. 
 
We are also continuing with the global rollout of accesso Passport across for Merlin Entertainments. The start of 2017 has seen go-lives at 
Merlin’s London cluster, and the accesso Passport installation in Asia at the new LEGOLAND® Japan Theme Park.  
 
Financial Review 
 
2016 has been another strong financial year for accesso, as the business continues to benefit from its expanding global footprint and 
increasing scale.  
 
accesso’s business model is largely founded on transaction-based agreements that provide high-quality, highly-visible and repeatable 
revenue for the Group. These agreements are often long-term, and as such, we are able to look forward to our future revenue with 
significant levels of confidence. In line with the previous year, we would consider that approximately 91% of 2016 group revenue consisted 
of revenues in this category. This, combined with the fact that the Group often benefits from pricing increases implemented by our 
customers and the longevity of the agreements, clearly permits the opportunity to outperform future revenue expectations by delivering 
new business.   
 
Key financial metrics 
 
accesso once again performed strongly in 2016 despite some challenging trading conditions during the North American summer where hot 
weather in certain markets was not helpful to attraction attendance. The strong performance also came in the context of a material 
expansion in the cost base owing in part to the aforementioned platform improvements, investment in our global team, development 
expenditure around accesso Prism and the required scale-up to deliver on our global rollout commitment of accesso Passport with Merlin.  
 
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2016 of $102.5m increased by $9.3m (+10.0%) when compared to 2015 ($93.2m) and benefited 
from accesso’s expanded reach. On a constant currency basis, revenues would have been $1m higher. The gross profit margin in 2016 was 
53.9%, compared to 49.4% in 2015, once again principally reflecting a change in mix towards higher margin ticketing revenue. 
 
Administrative expenses in the business, ignoring share based payments, depreciation and amortisation, were $36.2m, which represented 
an increase of 17% on 2015 ($30.9m), as the Group continued to invest ahead of revenue to support the more global nature of our 
opportunities.  
 
Adjusted operating profit, which the Board considers a key underlying metric, for the year ended 31 December 2016 was $15.7m and this 
equates to 24.6% growth when compared to 2015 ($12.6m). Our adjusted operating margin improved to 15.3% in 2016 (2015: 13.5%) and 
the Board believes there is potential for future improvement in this metric, as we exit this investment period. 
 
Profit before tax of $10.1m increased by $2.9m from $7.2m (+40.3%) in the prior year. On a constant currency basis, profit before tax would 
have been $9.8m. 
 
Earnings per share (basic) was 33.95 cents for 2016, an increase of 38.7% on 2015 (24.47 cents). 
 
These results are evidence of a harmonised and increasingly diversified portfolio capable of delivering overall growth while overcoming 
challenges. More specifically, accesso is increasingly able to derive expanding earnings from its growth at the top line, as the investments 
made come through and allow the Group to reap the benefits of improving operating leverage.  
 
Total R&D expenditure during 2016 was $17.9m, (2015: $12m) represents 17.5% of revenues (12.9%) and of which $11.7m (2015: $6.2m) 
was capitalised. The increase from 2015 is attributable to the development of accesso Prism and the continued expansion of functionality 
to enhance the offering generally and to support our geographic aspirations.   
 
Debt refinancing and cash flow 
 
Cash generated from operations at $18.6m for the year ended 31 December 2016 was 26.5% better than in 2015 ($14.7m) and represents 
a cash conversion from adjusted EBITDA of 97.4% (2015: 96.7%). 
 
 
  accesso Technology Group plc 
9 
 
Chief Executive’s statement (continued) 
 
Our closing net debt balance of $3.4m (2015: $9.4m), represents 17.8% (2015: 62%) of current year adjusted EBITDA and was ahead of our 
expectations, notwithstanding the increased investment. The Board believes that the Group remains in a strong financial position at the 
period end, with excellent opportunities to access debt finance on attractive terms. 
 
On 14 March 2016, the Group amended its facility with Lloyds Bank. That amended facility extended the original to allow a drawdown 
facility of $25m, with no step downs, at an improved drawdown rate of 1.35% above LIBOR, and an improved commitment rate. That facility 
was due to terminate on 14 March 2019 with the possibility for this to extend for a further 24 months in two separate 12 month extensions. 
 
Tax 
 
The full year tax rate of 25.5% (2015: 25.6%) was lower than the guidance that we provided for 2016 of 28%.  
 
The Group continues to focus on and review opportunities for maintaining or lowering its effective rate, while mindful of the fact that the 
majority of taxable income will continue to be generated in markets that currently have significantly higher headline tax rates than the UK. 
The Board expects the Group’s 2017 tax rate to be within the range of 20% to 23%.  
 
Dividend 
 
The Board maintains its view that the payment of a dividend is unlikely in the short to medium term with cash better invested in product 
development and complementary M&A. 
 
Adjustment  
 
A prior year adjustment has been incorporated within the comparative balances as at 31 December 2015 relating to the acquisition 
accounting for accesso LLC within the accounts for the year ending 31 December 2013. This fair value accounting included the recognition 
of a deferred tax asset.  After consultation with KPMG LLP, who were appointed as auditors to the Group in Nov 2016, the Board has 
decided that the deferred tax was overstated and goodwill understated by $4.6m. If this adjustment was retrospectively applied, there 
would not have been any change in reported earnings, net assets or cash flows for 2013, 2014 or 2015. 
 
Summary and Outlook for 2017 
 
accesso has once again performed strongly during 2016 and despite a strong comparator period, has made a reassuringly vibrant start to 
the first half of the new year. 
 
What is clear to the Board is that accesso has all the ingredients and attributes required to enjoy a sustained period of increasingly profitable 
growth in the future. The Board believes that the Group is currently within a stage of its development that should be considered an 
investment period as it invests heavily in product, people and infrastructure to support the global opportunities that present themselves. 
While this may restrict our operating margin growth in the short-term, it presents opportunities for accelerated margin improvement as 
we exit this investment period.  During 2017 the Board will continue to drive accesso along its growth path, executing its plan to expand 
the Group’s capabilities in terms of technology, geographical diversity and personnel to ensure it can make the most of the opportunity 
before it. The Board is confident that the Group will meet its expectations for 2017. 
 
 
 
Steve Brown 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
  
