 Accrol Group Holdings plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2016 6
Chairman’s Statement
Our results show 
another year of 
excellent progress
Overview of the year
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another successful year for 
the Group. Revenue grew 17% year on year to £118.2m with 
adjusted EBITDA up 22.5% to £15.0m
1
. Our strong financial 
performance has been driven by continued focus on our strategy of 
growth through Private Label products into Discounter and Multiple 
retailers, supported by our flexible supply chain and continued 
investment ahead of growth in state of the art machinery.
Peter Cheung
Executive Chairman
Debt structure
1.5x
EBITDA
Dividend policy
6%
Progressive yield at IPO 
placing price
Operational review
We operate 15 converting lines, producing 16.3m units per 
week with a c.7% share of the UK tissue market. We continue 
to invest in machinery, with a further £3.2m committed on two 
high-speed converting lines. Capacity headroom is expected 
to be approximately 25%, ensuring we continue to deliver new 
business opportunities. 
With a 35% share of the Discount segment we continue 
to dominate this sector. The Multiple sector is the largest 
segment of the market and growth in this area remains a 
key strategic objective. 
We have continued to grow existing contracts, both organically 
and through new products, with the more significant growth 
through Discounters.
Financial performance
Revenues grew by £17 .2m year on year with Discounters 
providing the majority of the growth. This segment now 
accounts for 69% of our revenues, up 6% year on year, 
reinforcing our already strong relationships. Revenues from 
Multiple customers showed an encouraging 15%
1
 increase 
year-on-year growth in this key strategic area. Adjusted 
EBITDA increased by £2.8m
1
 year-on-year mainly due  
to greater revenues and favourable paper prices. This was 
partially offset by an increase in overheads due to growing 
our headcount.
Strategy
We continued to focus on organic growth through Discounters 
as this sector represents the fastest growing retail sector in  
the UK tissue market and is projected to continue to grow at  
a rate of 10% per annum. The Discounters’ tissue offerings  
are skewed towards Private Label and this is driving growth of 
Private Label in the market as a whole. Our strategy of focusing 
on the Discounters and providing Private Label products  
to Multiples, positions Accrol well to take advantage of 
new opportunities. 
Listing on the AIM Market
On 10 June 2016 Accrol successfully listed on the AIM Market. 
This listing has reduced the Company’s debt burden and will 
increase Accrol’s profile and reputation, enable us to incentivise 
key employees and provide a platform to execute our strategy.
The listing also provided a partial exit for the founders, the 
Hussain family and NorthEdge Capital who invested in Accrol in 
July 2014. The family will continue to support the management 
team as external consultants, and I would like to thank both  
the Hussain family and NorthEdge Capital for their support 
and commitment.
1 See the Adjusted income statement on page 17 for further explanation on the 
proforma result.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Chairman’s Statement Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
Accrol Group Holdings plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
Dividend policy
As a listed Company, one of our key ongoing objectives is to 
create shareholder value. The Board have committed to a 
progressive dividend policy with the intention of paying both an 
interim and final dividend expected, in aggregate, to represent a 
strong 6% yield at the IPO placing price, for the financial year 
ending 30 April 2017 . 
Outlook
We have ambitious plans for future growth by building on our 
customer relationships supported by solid financial performance. 
Our focus on Private Label, 35% share of the Discount market and 
capital investment over the last five years, positions us well to take 
advantage of future opportunities. 
In the event that there is a period of reduced consumer 
expenditure following the UK’s decision to leave the European 
Union, it is possible that the move towards non-discretionary 
Economy and Private Label products will accelerate. If this 
happens, we believe we are well positioned to benefit as over 50% 
of our sales are generated from the Discount segment and we are 
primarily focused on supplying Private Label products to both 
Discounters and Multiple retailers.
We have started FY17 strongly and we believe we are in a good 
position to deliver the next stage of our strategic plan. We remain 
confident in the outlook for Accrol in FY17 .
On behalf of all our stakeholders, I would like to thank our 
employees for their hard work and commitment over the past 
year and I look forward to a successful 2017 . 
Peter Cheung
Executive Chairman
22 July 2016
Meet the team
On listing, Steve Crossley was appointed as Chief Executive Officer 
with Joanne Lake and Steve Hammett appointed as Independent  
Non-Executive Directors. Myself as Executive Chairman and Chief  
Financial Officer James Flude, complete the plc Board. Each individual 
brings a wealth of experience and expertise to the team. To demonstrate  
our intention of moving towards best practice, the Board adopted on  
listing the provision of the Quoted Companies Alliance Code (QCA) for 
Corporate Governance.
Reasons for IPO
• Strengthen the balance sheet
• Reduce the interest burden and drive organic growth
• Incentivise management to deliver shareholder returns
• Enhance the profile of the business
Use of funds
• NorthEdge equity cash out of c.£9.6m and repay loan notes of £22.4m
• The Hussain family equity cash out of c.£8.9m and repay loan notes 
of £22.4m
• Management equity cash out of c.£1.6m and repay loan notes of £0.3m
• Refinance existing third party debt of c.£21.5m to flexible new facilities 
of £23.1m
 – c.£10.1m invoice Discounting facility
 – c.£13.0m revolving credit facility
Capital structure
Debt structure on admission c.1.5x FY16 adjusted EBITDA as £3.2m 
investment in machinery was brought forward from FY17 .
Shareholder list
As at 20 July 2016, the Company had been notified of, in accordance with 
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, or was otherwise aware of,  
the following substantial interests of 3% or more in the Ordinary Share 
Capital of the Company.
Investor Amount Holding
Majid Hussain 4,652,590 5.0%
Wajid Hussain 4,652,590 5.0%
Mozam Hussain 4,646,621 5.0%
NorthEdge Capital 13,987,377 15.0%
Miton Asset Management Limited 8,800,000 9.5%
AXA Investment Managers UK 8,400,000 9.0%
Schroder Investment Management 8,000,000 8.6%
Majedie Asset Management Limited 5,411,105 5.8%
Ruffer LLP (for its discretionary clients of the 
Ruffer Group) 5,000,000 5.4%
Premier Fund Managers Limited 3,600,000 3.9%
 
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
