 Accrol Group Holdings plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8
Chief Executive’s Q&A
Introducing
our new
Chief Executive
Steve Crossley
Chief Executive Officer
What were your reasons for joining the business? 
A Accrol has already established itself as a major player in  
a non-discretionary and significant marketplace and there 
is huge opportunity for continued growth both within  
the Discount sector and with the Multiples. We have high 
quality assets with available capacity. Flexibility in sourcing 
Parent Reels also gives us a competitive advantage both  
in terms of pricing, availability and developments in new 
technologies. Finally, yet importantly, the opportunity  
to lead the transition of Accrol from a very successful 
privately owned business into a very successful publicly 
owned company on AIM is also very exciting.
What are your first impressions?
A Our short and remarkable rise to our AIM listing is huge 
testament to the capability and foresight of Jawid and 
the rest of the Hussain family. The business continues 
to have a family feel despite its significant size and 
rapid growth. The management team are very capable, 
committed, enthusiastic and focused on long-term future 
success. The assets are all relatively new and further 
investment continues at pace. There are significant 
opportunities to consolidate and improve operational 
performance, enhancing operational margins without 
losing our competitive edge. Tight overhead control will 
need to be maintained as the business continues its rapid 
growth. All these elements combine to create significant 
opportunity over the coming years.
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Chief Executive’s Q&A Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
Accrol Group Holdings plc / Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
74%
capacity utilised
60%
production lines less 
than 5 years old
£34m
gross profit
What are your key objectives for the coming year?
A Following yet another year of strong sales growth and 
further investment in new capacity, Accrol will continue 
to build on its core strengths and maximise market 
place opportunities for FY17. The Discount sector 
continues to grow at c.10% per annum and challenge 
the Multiples as they, in turn, all reset their ranging and 
shopper offer. Accrol are well positioned to benefit from 
this continued growth in the Discount sector and have 
made a number of significant customer wins that will 
further strengthen this position. At the same time the 
business will seek to expand its position within the 
Multiples Private Label sector which presents significant 
growth opportunities.
 This growth will also require the business to continually 
review its capacity and capabilities in order to take 
advantage of opportunities gained, and ones being 
evaluated. The two manufacturing lines purchased at 
the end of the current financial year, will be located on 
a new site. As part of the investment in new plant, 
utilisation from existing manufacturing lines will receive 
greater focus as the business seeks to optimise capacity 
from current capability. 
 The Company remains committed to its strategy of 
sourcing Parent Reels from tissue paper mills around 
the globe and has a number of long-term relationships 
with major tissue manufacturers. This strategy allows 
us to be the most competitive supplier to the UK market. 
New capacity for pulp and tissue manufacturing 
continues to be installed globally and so availability 
remains high and values competitive. We are uniquely 
placed to take advantage of this position in comparison 
to the vertically integrated competitor set.
What are your immediate priorities?
1 Maintain great service, quality and value to 
our customers.
2 Demonstrate consistent, steady growth and security 
of investment to our new and existing investors 
and shareholders.
3 Focus on improving operational utilisation and 
performance from existing capability.
4 Ensure the business has the appropriate resource 
to deliver the above whilst maintaining tight control 
on cost and overhead.
5 Transition the business from a privately run business 
into a public listed entity without losing all the great 
things that have created the success to date.
6 Install and commission the two lines recently purchased 
into a new facility that will allow space for further 
additional lines to meet sales opportunities.
Steve Crossley
Chief Executive Officer
22 July 2016
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
