 Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
2
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Market and customers
I am delighted to be able to report upon 
a year of substantial progress at Actual 
Experience. We entered the year with the 
objective of building a global channel 
partner programme and ensuring the 
business had the infrastructure to support 
that channel. Working through channel 
partners, who themselves may have tens of 
thousands of customers, and being built 
into their offering provides us with an 
opportunity to address that vast market. It is 
on this area that the Company is focused.
Both of these objectives have been 
achieved. We have now signed Master 
Services Agreements with four major 
channel partners, each of whom is 
progressing towards the point of significant 
revenue generation, with more to come. 
Meanwhile, the investment in our people 
and infrastructure means we have a 
scalable business, capable of providing  
24x7 global channel support.
As is to be expected, it has taken many 
months of diligent application by our teams 
to bring these types of partnerships to this 
point. We have worked closely with our 
partners to progress the engagements 
through the various preparatory phases, 
including product integration, marketing 
collateral development and partner 
education. The year has taught us much 
in this respect and we believe we now 
have a replicable process, which can be 
applied to future partners. 
While revenues in the year have remained 
steady, this masks a positive trend which 
has seen our channel partner revenue 
increase to 60% of total revenue, up from 
33% in the prior year. Once our analytics 
are being used within our channel partners’ 
customer bases we expect this revenue  
to increase substantially. While we believe 
the significant size of our opportunity  
merits investment, we are committed to 
good financial management and general 
cost discipline, resulting in effective  
cash management.
“I am delighted to be able 
to report upon a year of 
substantial progress at 
Actual Experience. We 
entered the year with the 
objective of building a 
global channel partner 
programme and ensuring 
the business had the 
infrastructure to support 
that channel. Both of these 
objectives have been 
achieved.”
Continued operational  
and commercial progress
Stephen Davidson
Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Notice of AGM Glossary of terms Sources Governance
3
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
This operational progress has been 
achieved against an increasingly positive 
market backdrop. The Board believes the 
size and scope of our market opportunity is 
greater than ever. Digital capability, quality 
and security are now top boardroom 
priorities and our analytics and the 
actionable insight they provide are key to 
digital quality. We continue to be pleased 
by the market validation of our technology 
vision as businesses increasingly recognise 
the need for consistently high levels of 
digital experience quality as a critical 
business enabler for their employees and 
customers. 
Board and employees
We were delighted to welcome Paul 
Spence to the Board as Non-executive 
Director in February 2016 . Having spent 
much of his career with Capgemini and its 
predecessor companies, including the role 
of CEO of Capgemini Global Outsourcing 
Services, Paul brings with him a wealth 
of knowledge and extensive international 
experience which will be important as we 
seek to develop our geographical reach. 
As I noted in my report last year, Robin 
Young stepped down from his position as 
Non-executive Director to assume an 
operational role at the Company, being 
appointed Chief Operating Officer with 
effect from October 2015 . Under his 
leadership the business has undergone 
significant operational change, ensuring 
we have a scalable business capable of 
supporting our customers globally.
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank our employees for their passion 
and commitment to ensuring the success 
of Actual Experience, and our customers 
and shareholders for their ongoing support. 
Outlook
The focus of the year ahead will be on 
delivering the significant revenue potential 
of our existing channel partners while 
signing further global partners. We will 
continue to invest in the scalability of our 
technology, infrastructure and people. 
While much remains to be done, the Board 
is pleased with the progress made by the 
business in positioning itself to continue to 
pioneer its leadership of the digital 
experience quality market and continues to 
be excited by the scale of the opportunity. 
The Board believes that Actual Experience 
is well positioned to execute on this 
opportunity and looks forward to another 
year of significant advances.
Stephen Davidson
Chairman
18 January 2017
“The focus of the year ahead 
will be on delivering the 
significant revenue potential 
of our existing channel 
partners while signing further 
global partners. We will 
continue to invest in the 
scalability of our technology, 
infrastructure and people.
 
While much remains to be 
done, the Board is pleased 
with the progress made by 
the business in positioning 
itself to continue to pioneer  
its leadership of the digital 
experience quality market 
and continues to be  
excited by the scale of the 
opportunity. The Board 
believes that Actual 
Experience is well positioned 
to execute on this opportunity 
and looks forward to another 
year of significant advances.”
