 Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
14
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Introduction
2016 has been a year of significant 
progress for Actual Experience. We have 
considerably enhanced our scalability 
as a business while receiving strong 
market endorsement for our digital 
analytics service through the signing 
of an additional major channel partner 
agreement which, combined with a further 
agreement announced following the end 
of the year, brings the total to four major 
channel partners. These agreements 
mean that some of the world’s largest 
services companies, such as Vodafone, 
Verizon and Accenture are now actively 
preparing to take our offering out to their 
global customer bases, either directly 
or integrated within their offerings. 
We have performed well against our stated 
strategic objectives during the year, as 
evidenced by the growing number of 
channel partners and the strengthening 
relationship with each. Since completion of 
our fund raising exercise in June 2015 , our 
efforts have focused around ensuring our 
readiness for these channel partners to 
enter the revenue generation phase. This 
has included augmenting our leadership 
team, introducing enhanced structures and 
processes, moving to a new headquarters, 
investing in 24x7 customer support, scaling 
our datacentre operations and creating a 
global sales structure. This has all been 
completed while deepening our 
relationships with our existing channel 
partners; moving them through the stages 
towards production, as well as securing 
new partnerships.
Having built the operational machine, 
the focus for the current year will be on 
execution through our current partners, 
developing our pipeline of additional 
channel partners and the emergence of 
key business metrics against which the 
progress of our Company can be judged.
Strategy overview
In 2016 , our strategy transitioned towards 
achieving market penetration for our 
enterprise offering, Actual Work, via 
channel partners. We are initially targeting 
service providers, who sell to large 
enterprises. A secondary tier of targets will 
be home broadband and mobile broadband 
and service providers selling to consumers. 
Our digital Analytics as a Service is being 
embedded into their processes and 
products, enabling service providers to 
deliver a consistent and reliable digital 
experience across complex global digital 
supply chains for enterprises, their 
customers and employees. 
We sell our service providers analytic 
capacity in our cloud. The greater the 
required capacity, the greater the charge. 
For a service provider’s multinational 
enterprise customer, the analytic 
capacity has the potential to generate 
in excess of $500k per annum for us.
“We have performed well 
against our stated strategic 
objectives … as evidenced 
by the growing number of 
channel partners and the 
strengthening relationship 
with each.”
Dave Page
Chief Executive Officer
Considerable progress in the year across 
many areas of our operations
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Notice of AGM Glossary of terms Sources Governance
15
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Our channel partners have hundreds of 
multinational customers and thousands of 
small and medium-sized business customers.
Whilst the opportunity is significant, these 
channel partners take time to reach 
maturity. With the channel’s individual 
customers taking between six and eighteen 
months to fully adopt, we anticipate our 
channel partners to achieve full deployment 
within three to five years. 
We continue to maintain a small base of 
important direct enterprise customers for 
Actual Work and consumer customers 
for our consumer product, Actual 
Home. Our focus with direct enterprise 
customers has shifted from revenue 
generation to using their feedback to 
help develop Actual Work. This means 
we can better support the channel with 
their customers. Direct revenue has 
reduced in the year due to this transition.
We also have a base of consumers using 
our Actual Home product which diagnoses 
issues with broadband and wifi in the 
home. We are investing in this as the 
opportunity emerges. 
Market opportunity
The service provider market for our 
proposition is large. We believe there are 
more than 800 service providers around the 
globe with revenue opportunities similar to 
those anticipated with our four publicly 
announced channel partners.
Our traction with this target audience 
indicates a gap in the market, and a 
growing need, for our Actual Work product. 
We are seeing our channel partners benefit 
from our Analytics as a Service, using 
it to drive service innovation and create 
competitive advantage, whilst enabling 
their own enterprise customers to boost 
productivity and enhance brand reputation.
In addition, the underlying trends are in our 
favour, with market statistics indicating a 
strong focus on investment in infrastructure 
to underpin digital initiatives and a shift 
in responsibility for digital transformation 
from IT to the Chief Executive’s office. 
We believe this suggests that digital 
transformation is becoming a strategic 
imperative where investment is growing.
The performance management tools 
market is therefore growing, with new 
players continuing to enter. However 
Actual Work benefits from key differences 
making it appropriate for use by global 
enterprises. Firstly, we have developed a 
way of getting our Digital Users to take 
measurements all the way down the 
delivery chain of the service. All other 
tools just look at one particular part.
Secondly, other tools measure network 
or application system parameters to help 
monitor system performance. Following 
a decade of academic research at Queen 
Mary University of London, we have 
developed algorithms that transform 
system parameters into a reliable 
proxy for human experience of a digital 
service. This enables digital experience 
to be managed for the first time. 
Being able to do those two things 
mentioned above is extremely difficult. 
Others have tried and failed. We firmly 
believe that, in order to create a solution of 
similar quality and with such far reaching 
effect would take a similar period of 
research, by which time our own offering 
will have continued to evolve and be 
deeply embedded within our partners’ 
customer bases. Actual Experience’s 
products also benefit from high levels 
of patent protection which further 
strengthen its competitive advantage. Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
16
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Operational review
We have made considerable progress in the 
year across many areas of our operations: 
Leadership and structure
Two highly experienced individuals 
joined our leadership team in the year, 
Rachel Fairley as Chief Marketing Officer 
and Robin Young as Chief Operating 
Officer. Robin’s background in FTSE 
250 companies has provided us with 
the skill-set to transition the business 
from early stage to a business ready for 
service with some of the world’s largest 
organisations. Rachel brings considerable 
experience in brand building which will 
be important as we grow our global 
presence. We have introduced greater 
levels of structure to the business enabling 
us to continue to operate smoothly while 
growing our employee base from 33 at 
the start of the year to 57, bolstering our 
expertise in R&D, Operations, and Sales 
and Support, with further growth to come. 
 
Global sales 
We have shifted from an early-stage 
theatre-based sales execution to a globally 
coordinated global sales leadership 
for all go to market activities. This is 
specifically designed to allow us to 
interact efficiently and effectively with 
our large, global channel partners.
 
Product development and testing 
process
We have invested in security and scaling 
within our datacentres. In addition, we have 
continued to evolve our Actual Work service 
during the year, focusing on the design and 
user experience to simplify and continue 
the thrust towards self-service and the 
lessening of skill requirements to use the 
service. The first mobile Digital User has 
been developed and is undergoing testing. 
We have spent time on the continuous 
enhancement of our algorithms. We are 
constantly tuning and improving our 
algorithms as the digital world evolves.
As part of the preparedness for live 
operation with our global channel 
partners, we have increased our focus 
on security, not only at our datacentres 
but also all buildings and processes. 
The year ahead will see us bring the 
new User Interface into production. We 
will continue to invest in security and 
scaling within the datacentres, in the 
ongoing evolution of our algorithms, 
and the launch into production of 
our first mobile Digital User.
 
Marketing 
Our marketing strategy has aligned closely 
to business strategy and we have shifted 
our focus towards service providers as 
potential channel partners. During 2016 , 
we refreshed our brand and continued 
to create the category ‘digital experience 
quality’ for our brand to occupy. Whilst 
brand and category building remain 
important for the service provider market, 
our priority is now shifting towards 
targeting initiatives that enable and 
accelerate sales traction within specific 
prospective and existing channel accounts. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT continued
Actual Experience’s 
analytics service has  
far-reaching applicability, 
with the potential to 
benefit any organisation 
with a digital business or 
footprint.  Notice of AGM Glossary of terms Sources Governance
17
Actual Experience plc ANNUAL REPORT 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Channel partner update
Actual Experience’s analytics service has 
far-reaching applicability, with the potential 
to benefit any organisations with a digital 
business or footprint. We intend to service 
the global business markets primarily 
through channel partners, but will maintain 
select direct customer engagements.
Actual Experience has signed multi-year 
framework agreements with four global 
technology businesses and a significant 
white-labelling project with a Fortune 100 
global technology company. 
Our channel partners incorporate the 
Company’s capabilities in one or more of 
the following methods: 
 ■ Analytics services sold through the 
channel to the channel’s corporate 
customers as standalone product; 
 ■ Analytics services incorporated in a 
technology product or portfolio and sold 
to the channel’s customer as part of the 
product; or
 ■ Analytics services incorporated in large, 
complex partner agreements, all with 
the ultimate goal to better serve the 
channel partner’s customers or to improve 
their customers’ digital experience.
Typically, for all categories, the signing of 
the Master Services Agreement is the start 
of a complex, multi-phase implementation 
process, prior to significant revenue 
generation. This can involve productisation, 
the development of marketing materials, 
sales team training and, ultimately, the 
building of a sales pipeline. 
New agreements signed in the year
In January 2016 , Actual Experience received 
a significant order to white label the 
Company’s service for a Fortune 100 global 
technology company. 
In March 2016 , the Company signed a 
five-year framework agreement with 
Vodafone. Actual Experience’s digital 
experience quality analytics will be 
integrated into Vodafone’s long-term 
quality improvement processes and key 
performance indicators, across Vodafone’s 
enterprise and consumer markets, products 
and services. 
The two agreements signed prior to the 
period under review were a three-year 
agreement with Verizon Enterprise 
Solutions (September 2015 ) and a 
three-year agreement with a Top 100  
global brand (May 2015 ). 
Following the close of the year, we 
announced the signing of a Global 
Framework Agreement with Accenture.
Implementation update
All of the five agreements mentioned  
above are at various stages within the 
implementation process, with Verizon 
Enterprise Solutions being the most 
advanced. We have been encouraged by 
the scale of their growing sales pipeline.
Looking to the future, we are now in the 
position for the first time to be able to state 
that we believe one or more of our channel 
partners will generate significant revenues 
within the current calendar year. We 
anticipate adding further global businesses 
to our channel partner roster in the  
year ahead. 
Current trading and outlook
The channel partner agreements that  
we have signed and the sheer size of the 
pipeline for potential customers that each 
represents, we believe, vindicates the 
Board’s decision to focus our sales efforts 
solely on channel partners rather than 
through selling direct to individual 
customers. The lead times are naturally 
longer and revenues may be impacted  
in the short term as one-off set up costs 
borne by each channel and direct revenues 
are steadily replaced with annuity income 
from end customers. However, revenues  
to date bear no resemblance to the market 
opportunity nor to the progress being made 
within each of our agreements, and it is this 
progress that underlines our belief that we 
are on the right path towards building a 
business of real scale.
Dave Page
Chief Executive Officer
18 January 2017
