 Admiral’s brands  
and markets
Admiral at a glance
Our business and operations
In the UK, Admiral is one of the largest and 
most recognised car insurance providers, and 
the Group includes Confused.com, a leading 
price comparison website, as well as a growing 
household insurance business. Outside the UK, the 
Group has exported the knowledge and experience 
gained from its UK businesses, and owns four 
insurance and three price comparison businesses.
£1.71 billion
Turnover (2014: £1.60 billion)
£232 million
Turnover (2014: £206 million)
£443 million
Pre-tax profit*¹ (2014: £398 million)
£22 million
Pre-tax loss*¹ (2014: £20 million)
3.30 million
Customers (2014: 3.15 million)
673,000
Customers (2014: 592,600)
UK Insurance
Admiral is one of the largest 
and most profitable private 
car insurers in the UK
International Car Insurance
Growing car insurance 
businesses in Spain, Italy, 
the US and France
Market discipline
UK Insurance review
UK Insurance strategy
The strategy for Admiral’s UK business is 
unchanged and remains simple:
• The Group aims to grow profitably its share of 
the UK private motor insurance market whilst 
maintaining a capital‑efficient structure.
• At the same time, Admiral endeavours always 
to give excellent service to customers, whilst 
providing a positive environment in which staff 
can work and develop.
Achievements and goals
UK Insurance achievements in 2015
Profit before tax increased 11% to £443 million  
(2014: £398 million)
Record number of vehicles insured up 5% at 3.30 million 
(2014: 3.15 million) 
Combined ratio improved in 2015 to 78% (2014: 80%)
Profit generated from the portfolio of insurance products 
that complement the core car insurance product of 
£175 million (2014: £182 million)
Strong policy growth in Household to 310,000 (2014: 162,600)
95% of customers who have submitted a claim would 
renew with Admiral, based on their claims experience 
(2014: 95%)
96% of staff say that Admiral is a friendly place to work 
according to the Great Place to Work survey
5 th Best Big Company to Work For, The Sunday Times 100 
Best Companies to Work For 
4 th Best Large Workplace in the UK, Great Place 
to Work Institute
Best Car Insurance Provider in the Personal Finance 
Awards for the third year in a row
UK Insurance goals for 2016
Appropriate rate changes in response to claims trends and 
market conditions
Continued reserve releases if back years develop 
as expected
Successful transition to new IT system (Guidewire)
This will be my last UK insurance review before taking over from Henry as CEO later this year. Next year he’ll be leaving me the responsibility of choosing just the right analogy, after years of Henry’s always entertaining, sometimes illuminating, occasionally enigmatic, choices. That’s just one of the challenges of taking over from Henry, after his 25 years of pretty much faultless stewardship of the company. Perhaps the biggest single advantage I have in tackling this challenge is having watched Henry, over those years, mix the brilliant blend of inspiration, determination, sensitivity and vision that creates, in Admiral, something special for staff and shareholders alike.
Given it’s my last UK Insurance Review, I’ll take the long view and start by going back to our early days as a quoted company.
For a while, after our flotation, we were without comparison. Or perhaps, more accurately, ‘without comparables’. We were, for a number of years, the only quoted direct personal lines insurer. Analysts and commentators could only half-heartedly benchmark us against a couple of battle-scarred, multi-national, multi-line composites and a mixed selection of Lloyd’s managing agencies. Roll on ten years and the stock market is awash with companies that are primarily direct personal lines insurance companies: ourselves; Direct Line; Esure; most recently Hastings; and, notwithstanding its initial reluctance to acknowledge its insurance-ness, Saga. Ten years ago quoted focused personal lines players (ourselves and a couple of Lloyd’s motor operations) accounted for 5% of the UK motor market. The other 95% was buried within massive global insurers and banks for whom the UK car insurance result was not that big a deal. Now 40% of the UK car insurance market is in the hands of the quoted personal line players.
Good news for Admiral? 
Or bad? 
Well, both to be honest.
The investment community has tended to look askance at a sector whose extreme cyclicality has, over the decades, delivered an unappetising combination of very modest average returns on capital, combined with extreme volatility around that average. Might the market discipline, the extra scrutiny and transparency, the better alignment of manager and owner interests, mean that, in this new world, UK car insurers could lift their game enough, both to push up cross-cycle average returns, and to moderate the ups and downs of the cycle? 
It’s too early to make a call, but I am somewhat encouraged by premium movements over the last 18 months. Market-wide price increases from mid 2014 and throughout 2015 should mean that the combined ratio for accident year 2015, the most recent worst point of the car insurance cycle, will be materially below the 120% plus combined ratios (on a pure year, before reserve release, basis) that marked the last two worst points (1998/9, 2009/10). If sustained over a decent period of time, evidence of higher and less volatile returns must ultimately increase investor interest in non-life insurance as a whole.
So what’s the downside of more quoted focused personal lines players?
Market discipline should not only make them more rational managers of their business, it should also make them more effective competitors – more sophisticated pricers, better claims handlers, lower cost operators. It should, in short, help them narrow the long-standing and substantial combined ratio gap between ourselves and themselves. Have they?
Not on expense ratios. The market and our own car insurance expense ratio have oscillated, but our relative outperformance has stayed consistent at 12–14 percentage points below market averages. While on household, despite our sub-scale circa 1% market share and our big share of new business versus renewals, we’re already beating the market average expense ratio. 
What about on claims ratios?
It’s hard to know, to be honest. It takes a good three years for enough claims to settle, or at least stabilise, for us to be able to compare ourselves reliably to the market as a whole. What we can say is the 2011/12 years look to be delivering loss ratios of 11–12 percentage points below market averages; less than the 20 percentage points advantage in 2009 (when price comparison neophytes were severely punished); but no less than 2005/6, when we outperformed by 10–11 percentage points.
We insured about 1.2 million cars in the UK in 2006, and 3.0 million in 2012. If you’d asked me back in 2006 if we could insure almost three times as many cars in 2011/12, and still maintain the same claims ratio advantage versus the market, I’d have said ‘probably not’.
If you ask me now if we have maintained the same claims advantage versus the market in 2015 (now with 3.3 million cars on cover) as in 2006 and in 2012, I’d again say ‘probably not’.
But I have been proved wrong before.
David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 2 March 2016
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 21 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 20
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
David Stevens, CBE
 40% of the UK car insurance 
market is in the hands of the quoted 
personal line players.
Henry
David: Henry challenges established wisdom – rejecting doing something a certain way because everyone else does. ‘Admiral is different’ is an expression of Henry's commitment to do things the right way, the best way, rather than the apparently obvious way.
UK Car Insurance review
From page 20
Continuing to grow our  
international presence
International Car Insurance review
International Car Insurance strategy 
Admiral’s strategy is to exploit the knowledge, skills and 
resources attached to the established UK businesses to 
promote expansion overseas in private car insurance. 
Admiral’s objective is to create profitable, sustainable 
and growing businesses.
Achievements
International Car Insurance achievements in 2015
Admiral insured 673,000 customers across its Spanish, 
Italian, American and French operations (2014: 592,600)
4 th Best Multinational Place to Work in Europe, awarded 
by Great Place to Work
Admiral Seguros achieved break-even on an underwriting 
year basis
Admiral Seguros voted 4 th Best Company to Work for in 
Spain (between 250 and 499 employees), awarded by 
Great Place to Work Institute 
ConTe reported its second full year profit
ConTe grew customer base by 11%
ConTe voted 9 th Best Medium Company to Work for in Italy
Elephant Auto 40% growth in net written premium
Elephant Auto became a top 100 auto insurer in the US
L ’olivier – assurance auto customer base grew by 66% 
L ’olivier – assurance auto continued to develop its brand 
awareness, launching on TV
Goals
International Car Insurance goals for 2016
Admiral Seguros to increase market share and grow 
consumer awareness of Qualitas brand
ConTe increasing investment in brand and technology 
to leverage the expected cycle turn and grow customers 
and revenue 
Elephant Auto to focus on continued growth 
and improving its combined ratio
L ’olivier – assurance auto to grow customers and revenue 
Launched in October 2006 – 
the most mature of the Group’s 
international businesses.
The highlight of 2015 in Spain? 
We successfully hit our target of breaking-even on an underwriting year basis; a meaningful achievement given the small size of the Spanish book. 
Our focus during the year was on improving portfolio quality, strong cost control and making improvements in infrastructure and customer processes. Having used 2015 to consolidate, we now have a strong foundation from which to scale up the business over coming years.
Improvements in the Spanish economy during 2015 drove increases in claims frequency in a context of continuing price competition. The result was that the Spanish market may have entered unprofitable underwriting territory for the first time in more than 10 years. The market combined ratio was 96% at the end of 2014. It rose to 99% in H1 2015, and looks to have continued an upward trend in H2.
The other big news in 2015 was the passing of an update to the claims ‘Baremo’ law by the Spanish parliament. ‘Baremo’ regulates compensation payouts in bodily injury cases and the change, effective from January 2016, makes large bodily injury claims significantly more expensive. This will provide further upward pressure on market claims costs.
We expect that the ‘Baremo’ change will bring some market price reaction and opportunities for growth during 2016. Our focus will be on increasing our market share within the price comparison channel, and growing consumer awareness of our flagship Qualitas brand.
Launched in May 2008 –  
the largest international  
business within the Group.
ConTe recorded its second consecutive year of profit in 2015. Despite challenging market conditions – prices decreasing by 6% – we grew the customer count by 11% to 315,300.
For the first time in more than 10 years the average premium for the market fell below €380. Competition was fierce, with a large media spend, rate cuts, special promotions and product innovations, like telematics and alternate payment methods. However, with a market combined ratio still well below 100%, it should not come as any surprise that many firms would be trying to increase the size of their portfolios. I expect further rate cuts in the first half of 2016 but the pace should slow as claims frequency is now on the rise. 
Transition towards direct distribution progressed at a slower pace than in the past, given that traditional companies led the price and advertising war. Mobile is becoming a major force with around one third of visits to insurance websites coming from mobile devices and price comparison sites grew around 12%.
ConTe followed the market with some price reductions but resisted drastic rate cutting. Instead we focused on finding profitable niches within the book, selling other products and services to our customers and retaining customers at renewal. In 2016 ConTe will invest more in its brand, which started in 2015 with our sponsorship of the Serie B football league. We will also invest in technology to help us grow in the future when the market turns and prices rise once again. 
Technical results were positive, with encouraging claims development. Improved actuarial projections resulted, not only in a profitable 2015 on the back of reserve releases, but also turned 2014 into another profitable underwriting year.
Launched in October 2009 – serving 
four US states (Virginia, Maryland, 
Illinois and Texas).
Comprehensive 2015 market data is not yet available, but it is fair to assume that the US market grew again – from a market of over $180 billion premium in 2014 to around $190 billion in 2015. The market is stable with low cyclicality, but in 2015 the major players complained of increasing claims frequency and talked about raising rates. 
Distribution channel shift remains slow but inevitable. Market surveys suggest c.25% of all premiums are written direct with new business being c.40%. But it is a sticky market, with only 10% of customers switching annually, so the overall shift in distribution is modest. For Elephant this is somewhat academic as the direct market is enormous and more than enough to satisfy our needs. 40% of new business represents 8 million new business opportunities each year. That’ll do. One feature of 2015 was the emergence of online price comparison – whilst still modest in the US market, it clearly made an impact and is a fast growing proportion of our quote volumes.
For Elephant, 2015 was a good year. We grew the business substantially again – with more than 40% growth we wrote $135 million and now have over 140,000 customers. Acquisition economics improved as brand awareness and perception increased nicely in our core markets. New marketing campaigns delivered well. Growth was particularly significant in Virginia and in the US’s 2 nd largest auto insurance state, Texas. We have moved into the top 100 US auto insurers with a market share that rounds to a massive 0.1%. The loss ratio came under pressure with increased frequency across the board, but particularly in Texas. Like others, we implemented price increases in the latter part of the year to address the loss ratio. We will be monitoring this carefully as we seek further growth in 2016. We have plenty of market share to go after – both in existing states and beyond – and we will probably expand into new states in the next year or so. 
We believe the Elephant culture and operating model gives us an opportunity for a competitive advantage in a high expense ratio market. Adjusted for our current lack of scale, Elephant already compares favourably. 
Launched in December 2010 –  
the Group’s youngest international  
car insurance business.
2015 was the year of a new law in France (‘loi Hamon’) making switching motor insurance much easier for consumers. This new regulation was in-force from 1 January 2015 and was rolled out progressively all year at each renewal date.
To avoid losing market share, large players didn’t increase prices much, at least not enough to compensate for the higher cost of claims. As a consequence, the market combined ratio kept deteriorating, reaching 107%. One would expect 2016 to be a continuation of 2015. Market profitability is unlikely to improve, as claims cost are expected to keep rising, while prices will be stable as a defence against the new law that is now fully effective.
L’olivier – assurance auto benefited both from the new regulatory environment and the growth of the price comparison market. It was a year of strong growth as our policy base grew by more than 60%. We’ve been developing our brand awareness with a new TV presence. At the same time, operations were fully in-sourced and a new cutting edge IT system was developed and implemented. 
2016 should be another year of strong growth for L’olivier – assurance auto.
Italy
Milena Mondini
CEO, ConTe
USA
Kevin Chidwick
CEO, Elephant Auto
France
Pascal Gonzalvez
CEO, L ’olivier – assurance auto
Sarah Harris
CEO, Admiral Seguros
Spain
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 27 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 26
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
International Car Insurance review
From page 26
6
5
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 06
