 2015 in summary
Group pre-tax profits grew by 6%
UK Car Insurance business improved profits by 11% to 
£443 million
Growth in our young UK household book to over 
300,000 customers 
Admiral Seguros, our Spanish insurance operation, achieved 
break-even (on an underwriting year basis*¹) in fiercely 
competitive market conditions
ConTe, our Italian insurance operation, achieved growth 
and a further year of profitability 
Elephant Auto in the US achieved strong growth and is 
preparing to expand its operations into more states 
Our French motor insurance business, L ’olivier – assurance 
auto, grew strongly
Rastreator and LeLynx, our price comparison businesses 
in Spain and France are market leaders
Continued investment in compare.com to build acceptance 
as a successful distribution channel
Confused.com continues to battle in a mature UK market 
Succession
As was announced last May, Henry Engelhardt will step down as Group Chief 
Executive in May 2016. There is no way to measure adequately the contribution 
of a founder of a business that has grown from zero to now worth almost 
£5 billion, employs over 8,000 people and serves more than 4 million customers. 
When we floated on the London Stock Exchange in 2004 it was under the 
by-line ‘Admiral is Different’ and this has been something we have always 
tried to be, not different for the sake of being different, but different to create 
value for our shareholders. 
So what makes us different? 
 • That all employees of Admiral are shareholders.
 • That we distribute each year all our profits over and above what we need 
to support and grow our business.
 • That we have the lowest combined ratio amongst our major UK competitors.
 • That we are the only company to have been in the Sunday Times Best 
Companies to Work For list every year for the last 15 years.
 • That all our growth, at home and overseas, has been organic with the 
Admiral culture strongly embedded wherever we operate.
And I could go on much longer. In so many areas of difference the original 
thinking has stemmed from Henry’s refusal to accept the status quo and the 
conventional, from his asking ‘Why?’ and from his recruitment of those who 
think like him and share the same values. 
When any new employee joins Admiral’s UK operations Henry gives them 
a piece of a jigsaw – a jigsaw is not complete until every piece is in place, no 
matter how small it may be; similarly, in Admiral every role has a contribution 
to make and is to be valued on the merits of the individual, not their status. 
As Henry said at a recent Staff General Meeting in which over 5,000 staff in 
the UK take part each year, what will continue to make Admiral different is 
not what the Board will do ‘but what you, you, you, and you will do’. 
On behalf of the Board and the entire Group I want to thank Henry for everything 
he has done over so many years and to say how delighted we all are that he 
will continue to work within the Group looking after our price comparison 
businesses around the world.
I said that Admiral’s original thinking in part stems from those Henry has 
recruited and who share the same values. David Stevens, who takes over 
from Henry as Group CEO, was the second person Henry recruited to work 
alongside him to found Admiral. For the last seven years David has led the 
UK business and has been instrumental, alongside Henry, in shaping Admiral’s 
course and the strong performance that has been achieved. When asked about 
succession my reply has always been that I am extremely fortunate as Chairman 
Admiral is different
Chairman’s statement
Alastair Lyons, CBE
 A business is as good as its 
people and we at Admiral are hugely 
fortunate to have great people 
whose commitment, energy and 
initiative allows us to create great 
value for our shareholders.
Alastair Lyons, CBE
*¹ Refer to the glossary for the definition of underwriting year basis. ADMIRAL GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 04
