 In summary
Record profits, turnover again over £2 billion, record 
dividend, increase of 9% in number of policyholders 
and profits in Italy
Break-even result in Admiral Seguros, our Spanish 
operation, was a great achievement
UK business – rate increases ahead of the market, shift 
in risk profile and continued attention to operational 
detail all led to an excellent economic outcome 
I actually started doing end of year commentaries a few years before we went 
public such that this is my 16
th
 statement. The first one was for the 2000 
year and the highlight was the launch of our internet brand, elephant.co.uk. 
At the end of 2000 we employed 1,300 people on two sites and our turnover 
that year was £265 million. Compare that with the end of 2015 where we employ 
over 8,000 people on umpteen sites and turnover was over £2 billion. 
I would sum up all our results since 2000 as being akin to a seedless watermelon: 
tasty and refreshing but somehow you always wonder ‘how can that work 
in the future?’ Every year Admiral’s customer growth and profit growth always 
seems to take people a bit by surprise. Despite the fact that we’ve prospered 
in good economic times and bad economic times; that we’ve prospered 
when prices for car insurance were on the rise and when they weren’t; that 
we’ve prospered even allowing for investment in new operations outside the 
UK; and that we’ve done it all organically, without any acquisitions. Despite 
this history we seem to surprise people when we pop up out of the ground 
each spring with better results than the year before. 
2015 was no exception: record profits, turnover again over £2 billion, record 
dividend, increase of 9% in number of customers, profits in Italy, break-even 
in Spain… I would describe 2015 as: the year of the uncut diamond. When 
the year started many people thought it would turn out to be a lump of coal. 
But no, as the results detailed in the pages to follow will show, 2015 was 
no lumpy coal year. How good a year was it? Well, that’s why it’s an uncut 
diamond. We know there’s certainly good value in there, after all, it’s a 
diamond, but exactly how much value? Time will tell. 
A lot of good things happened in 2015. For the sake of allowing you to finish 
this statement in a conscious state, let me highlight but two. 
First, and key to the overall result, the UK insurance business. The work we did 
on the UK business in terms of rate increases ahead of the market (started 
in, but not limited to, 2014), the shift in the risk profile of the account over 
time and the continued attention to operational detail all led to an excellent 
economic outcome. Also, trust me, money from back year releases actually 
spends exactly the same as any other money. And there’s more where that 
came from.
Following on from the success of ConTe, the break-even result in Admiral 
Seguros (AS) (actually a profit of €1.4 million), our Spanish operation, was a great 
achievement. The Spanish market is very different from the UK: it’s short tail, 
small bodily injury claims, low propensity of consumer shopping, low average 
premiums, high acquisition costs and little or no market cyclicality… And so 
over its nine year life we’ve kept AS small, worked on the quality of the business 
and the efficiency of the operation. But we needed to prove that break-even 
could be achieved. Anyone who has tried to get a direct operation to break-even 
on just 160,000 customers, with low average premiums, will tell you that it’s 
very challenging. A direct operation has overheads that are in place whether 
there are 160,000 or 1,160,000 customers. And an operation with only 
160,000 customers has far less data to work with than a bigger organisation. 
Chief Executive’s statement
Henry Engelhardt, CBE
A look at the years according to Henry…
2007: The Sloth
UK car insurance 
market cycle is turning 
with sloth-like speed
2008: The Koala
A sleepy year on rates...
but can be nasty 
if provoked
The year of the  
uncut diamond
 2015 – we know there’s certainly 
good value in there, after all, it’s a 
diamond, but exactly how much 
value? Time will tell.
Since launching Admiral 
in 1993, Henry has often 
described the years 
through the use of 
metaphors. Here are a 
few of his most recent…
Henry Engelhardt, CBE
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 08 A look at the years according to Henry…
2009: The Ox
A lot of hard labour
2010: The Puppy
A cute, cuddly year
2011: The Chameleon
Quite useful  
but changeable
2012: The Kangaroo
Bounces around but...
strong and energetic
2013: The baked potato
Comfort food: solid 
yet unflashy
2014: The baked Alaska
Hot and cold in a 
single bite
So it is with great pride that I can tell you that Admiral Seguros made a modest 
profit in 2015. And it is equally with great pride that I will tell you that AS will 
not break-even in 2016! Now we are ready for growth, but growth in Spain is 
expensive. So we will return to losses in the near term. But we did not enter 
this market to create a very small business that breaks even; we are here for 
a bigger slice of the paella. 
There were other big successes in the Group in 2015, but I will let others tell 
those stories. There were also some things that didn’t go according to plan. 
I’ll definitely let others tell those stories! 
As most of you know, this is my last CEO commentary. Last May I gave my 
one year’s notice and so my last day as CEO will be May 12, 2016. I’ll be turning 
over the CEO role to my longstanding colleague and friend, David Stevens. 
You may be surprised to know that David’s actually quite a bit younger than 
I am. But I’m sure he will use his combination of youth and experience to 
bring Admiral Group to the next level. 
David and I met almost 30 years ago at business school. We did some great 
projects together there including one on perfume advertising and another 
on what a beer bottle says about the beer inside. In 1991 I was recruited by 
a managing agency at Lloyd’s of London to set up and run what’s become 
Admiral Group. David was working as a Management Consultant in a blue 
chip firm but I thought, why not ask him if he’d be interested to join this car 
insurance start-up? And, much to my surprise, he said ‘yes’! I officially 
started with Admiral in June 1991 and David came on board in August. 
One of the keys to the success of our partnership has been to make arguing 
an art. The next time David and I agree on something I suspect will be the 
first time. I jest. Sometimes we did agree. I remember once back in 1996… 
But we do push each other hard and the debates and discussions we have 
invariably improve the end result. We both like to challenge the status quo 
and we make each other think. But the real key to success was that we never 
lost sight of the fact that both of us always had the same goal: make Admiral 
great. This meant that we walked away from every debate and discussion, no 
matter how fierce or passionate, as good friends. The other key to success 
has been to laugh together. We laugh at each other and we laugh at the 
world around us. I’ve shared more laughs with David than with any person 
other than my wife (who is still not for sale!). 
I’m pleased to say too that I will stay on with Admiral on a part-time basis. 
I’ll help David by managing the price comparison business CEOs.
I can also say that I wouldn’t be stepping aside if I didn’t feel we had depth in 
management below David. If the people working in key roles around the Group 
today don’t do great things in the future then it will be my fault for not working more 
closely with them when I had the chance. The true evidence of my confidence 
in them is that I’m stepping aside to give them space to make their mark. 
As this is my final CEO commentary I’ll ask you to indulge me as I answer 
two questions. First, what will I miss when I step down and, second, what 
am I most proud of in my Admiral years?
There are many things that I’ll miss when I step down in May, but let me 
share three of them with you.
I’ll miss coming in each morning and seeing how we did yesterday. I’ll especially 
miss those days when one of our operations has broken a record – quotes, sales, 
etc. But I’ll even miss looking at the reserve movements across all the businesses 
each morning and that nervous moment near the end of the month when the 
UK claims department puts the reserves on new injury cases… I remember in 
the very beginning of Admiral we were able to hit the refresh button during the 
day and find out how many sales had been made up to that minute. But 
managers were hitting refresh so frequently that the system was grinding to a 
halt! So we had to move to yesterday reporting. It may be a serious compulsive 
behaviour issue to look over your shoulder at yesterday all the time, especially for 
the size of business we’ve become, but it’s still one of the little pleasures for me. 
Second, I’ll miss the way my PA of 18 years, Julie, says ‘good morning’ in 
such a positive way every morning, even when it’s dark and wet and cold 
(most mornings actually) such that you can’t help but think that, yes, maybe 
it really is a good morning! 
Lastly, the thing I know for sure I’ll miss most – that’s working with the people 
I work with. I am very, very lucky to work with people I enjoy working with. No, we 
don’t always agree on everything and there have certainly been good days and 
bad days, but I enjoy the challenges we work on together, the conversations, 
the problems, the attempts at solutions, the coffees and lunches, even the 
disagreements, and I enjoy seeing the spirit they bring to work every day. Especially 
that spirit. The people I work with bring with them a rare desire to improve and 
succeed, as the economist Joseph Schumpeter put it long ago: ‘there is the will to 
conquer, the impulse to fight, to prove oneself superior to others, to succeed for the 
sake, not of the fruits of success, but of success itself. ’ I look forward to my calls, 
my meetings and my trips around Admiral Group. And that’s because the people 
I work with care: they care about what they do, they care about the company, 
they care about each other and, perhaps most importantly, they care about 
everyone who works in Admiral Group. I hope that care lasts for a long, long time.
Finally, people ask me what I’m most proud of. That’s easy. I’m most proud 
to be part of an organisation that combines economic success with people 
being happy to come to work every day. In fact, what I’m really most proud 
of is that we had the ability to see that IF people are happy in their jobs every 
day THEN the chances for economic success are greatly enhanced. 
Thanks for reading. 
Henry Engelhardt
Chief Executive Officer 
2 March 2016
 I would sum up all 
our results since 2000 
as being akin to a 
seedless watermelon.
INTRODUCTION
STRATEGIC REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OTHER INFORMATION
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015 09
