 Chairman’s statement
In my statement last year I commented that I was very 
confident, given the quality of our management and 
our staff, that 2012 would demonstrate their capability 
and commitment to put the 2011 issue of higher than 
expected claims behind us and restore lost shareholder 
value. This confidence has, I believe, been fully justified 
with pre-tax profits 15% higher at £345m; reserve 
releases from the 2010 and 2011 years; and a share price 
that was 36% higher at the end of the year than the start.  
This level of profitability delivered a 60% return on capital 
employed and supported total dividends of 90.6 pence 
per share, which represents a distribution of 95% of 
our earnings. Our normal dividend, growing in line 
with our growth in profits based on a 45% pay-out ratio, 
amounted to 42.7 pence per share, whilst our available 
surplus, after taking into account our required solvency, 
provision for our overseas expansion plans, and a margin 
for contingencies, made possible a further special 
dividend of 47 .9 pence per share.
Our UK Business
UK motor insurance is cyclical. As rates harden and 
profitability improves so too interest in growth increases 
amongst insurers, raising marketing spend; developing 
new offerings; and, in turn, leading to lower prices to grow 
share. This phase continues until the market recognises 
that the new business it is attracting is unprofitable for 
most, leading to a further turn. It makes good economic 
sense to grow in the up-cycle and refrain from chasing 
the market down in the down-cycle. This is even more 
the case for a player such as Admiral that has a significant 
combined ratio advantage over the market as a whole and 
can, therefore, afford to raise rates less quickly than the 
market as a whole when the cycle turns up. The UK market 
reached its low point in 2009, a year that saw a totally 
unsustainable overall market combined ratio of 127%, 
and then raised rates significantly over the subsequent 
two years to reflect the increasing cost of claims, in 
particular those relating to bodily injury. By contrast, in 
2009 Admiral had achieved a combined ratio of 94% and 
was, therefore, able to take advantage of these market 
conditions to add material growth to its UK motor book, 
finishing 2011 almost 60% larger than two years previously. 
Similarly in 2012, as the second largest UK private motor 
insurer, we have not sought to add to the downward 
pressure on prices but have been content to hold our 
share broadly steady. 
Admiral has always had a low appetite for risk. This is 
demonstrated by the fact that we reinsure 75% of our 
book either through co-insurance or quota share; we 
only invest in the highest quality assets with no equity 
exposure; and when we enter new markets we do so 
slowly through organic growth, adopting a test and learn 
approach. Nowhere is this low risk appetite more evident 
than our approach to reserving against motor claims. We 
establish initial reserves at the prudent end of potential 
outcomes, reviewing how claims develop in subsequent 
years and releasing parts of the reserve to profit as and 
when justified. In our reserving we seek to reflect not only 
what we know but what may happen, such as potential 
changes to discount rates and increasing numbers of 
periodic payment orders. Our approach to reserving 
is conservative; how conservative will vary with our 
assessment of the level of uncertainty and volatility 
to which our business is exposed. 
Currently the UK motor market is undergoing significant 
change – the implementation of the EU gender directive;  
the OFT referral to the Competition Commission; the 
banning of referral fees; and the emergence of telematics 
offerings are all potentially disruptive events. Admiral  
has, however, built its business to embrace and profit 
from change, rather than fear it and we have been as 
transparent as we can as to the likely effects of these 
changes on our business. The management team has 
developed a flexible responsive, low-cost, data-rich 
business model that allows the effect of change to be 
identified quickly, measured accurately, and responded  
to effectively. By seeking to minimise bureaucracy, 
encourage individual managers to use their initiative,  
and avoid management by committee which leads to  
an absence of decision-taking and the abrogation of 
responsibility, we aim to react more quickly than our 
competitors to changes in our environment. Through our 
all-employee Free Share scheme we seek to motivate all 
of our people to work together to achieve the best 
outcome for what is their business, creating a total 
alignment between their interests and those of our 
Earnings per share 
 
 
95. 1 p
Return on capital
60%
% of customers 
who would renew 
following a claim
90%
Profit before tax
£344.6m
 2012 95.1p 
 2011 81.9p 
 2012 60% 
 2011 59% 
 2012 90% 
 2011 91% 
 2012 £344.6m 
 2011 £299.1m 
Alastair Lyons, CBE
Chairman 
Admiral Group plc 
Annual Report 2012 06 shareholders. We were, therefore, delighted to be named 
best large UK workplace by the Great Place to Work
®
 
Institute in 2012.
The customer is at the centre of everything we do.  
We design our products and processes in order to  
meet their needs better than our competitors, and we 
are now pleased to be able to offer our UK customers 
household insurance alongside motor insurance. We seek 
feedback after every interaction in order to learn how we 
can improve our service. Last year we received over 
140,000 individual items of feedback – in the critical area 
of claims processing over 90% of those claiming under 
their policy said that they would take motor insurance 
from us again. All departments have quality scores 
against their relevant key performance indicators, and 
compete to win Quality Awards. For customer-facing 
departments these quality measures underpin the 
regulatory assessment of our compliance with the 
principles of Treating Customers Fairly. We fully support 
initiatives that can reduce the overall cost of providing 
motor insurance, in turn making possible a reduction in 
the premiums insurers have to charge their customers. 
Minimising the potential for fraudulent claims and 
reducing incidental claims costs both have their part  
to play. 
Admiral Overseas
We have continued to grow our overseas businesses  
at the measured pace dictated by a strategy of organic 
growth and within the constraints of the challenging 
economic environment, particularly as affects southern 
Europe. We are still very much at the stage of learning 
how best to compete in each of these markets and shall 
focus in the near term on building the businesses that we 
have established over the past six years. When each year  
I visit our international operations I always know that I am 
in Admiral, testament to the effectiveness with which our 
can-do culture, management ethos, and approach to our 
customers and employees have been exported. 
We are already seeing the results of investing in price 
comparison in new markets in order to kick start the 
process of change to more active switching of car 
insurance provider by consumers. Market data shows 
price comparison growth in Italy, Spain and France and 
we are delighted to see others being attracted by our 
initiative to establish their own price comparison sites in 
markets where we provide motor insurance – the launch 
of Les Furets in France is a case in point. The more impact 
price comparison can have the stronger the potential  
for direct insurance in these markets. 
Our Board 
Over the past couple of years we have added to our 
Board beyond its normal size in anticipation of three  
of our Non-Executive Directors reaching the end of the 
nine years following which they are no longer regarded 
as independent under the UK Corporate Governance 
Code. By structuring this overlap we aim to maintain the 
continuity of Board process and the strength of personal 
interaction which underlies the effectiveness of the Board 
as a team. The first of these, Keith James, stood down 
at our 2012 AGM although he continues to bring his 
knowledge of our business and his wise counsel to bear 
through his chairmanship of our principal UK-regulated 
operating subsidiaries. May I take this opportunity to 
thank Keith for everything that he added to our debate 
during his time on the Board. 
I would also like to extend this thanks more generally  
to all of our Non-Executives for the time they give and the 
commitment they make to our business. As our business 
expands and broadens, and against the backdrop of 
challenging economics and a demanding regulatory 
environment, what is expected of Non-Executives, and  
in particular Committee Chairs, bears little relation to  
the position that existed when Admiral floated in 2004. 
During 2012 all Non-Executives visited at least one of  
our overseas businesses in addition to the normal Board 
process. It is only by such active engagement with 
the business and the opportunity to spend time with 
management across many levels that Non-Executives 
can gain a real understanding of its underlying health 
and potential. In a business that has sustained profitable 
growth as its objective the depth and breadth of 
management is both the key enabler and the potential 
greatest inhibitor. Our Board, therefore, aims to assess 
not only the plans for immediate succession but, at least 
as, if not more, importantly, the emerging bench strength 
for five to 10 years time. Throughout 2012 we have had 
three senior managers join the Board in each of its 
meetings in order to broaden their understanding of  
the Group’s strategy and Board process and contribute 
actively to Board deliberations. 
Thank You
A business is only as good as its people and every 
individual has their particular contribution to the success 
of the whole. It is, therefore, everyone in Admiral across  
all the various markets and functions that now make up 
our Group that I must thank for what has been achieved  
in 2012. Whilst there are many elements to why Admiral  
is different, for me the most significant is that the 
management team has been successful in designing  
a business where the overwhelming majority of those I 
meet enjoy coming to work and through enjoying what 
they do, and the environment within which they work,  
are more successful in what they do. It is, therefore, 
no surprise that the average length of service of our 
20 most senior UK managers is 13 years in a company 
that is itself just 20 years old. I am confident that this 
depth of focused knowledge and commitment within 
a supportive environment will lead to a continued  
strong performance within our markets. 
 
 
Alastair Lyons, CBE
Chairman 
5 March 2013
For more information: 
Corporate Responsibility 
Go to page 24 
 
Governance  
Go to page 29 
Admiral Group plc 
Annual Report 2012 07
Financial statements Governance Performance Overview Other information
