 We’ve done the heavy lifting: the first 20 years. We’ve put 
the hole in the ground and we’ve got the cranes in place. 
All that’s left to do is to build the metaphorical skyscraper. 
We’ve had our ups and downs, good moments and, well, 
less good moments, over the first 7 ,304 days (we started 
on 2 January 1993 and there have been five leap years 
along the way, but who’s counting?). In 20 years, we’ve 
done a lot of car insurance (total turnover? £13 billion, our 
combined ratio over the first 20 years? 84%), we’ve had a 
lot of laughs, lost (quite) a few hairs and gained a few 
pounds. But the net result is my belief that the next 20 
years will make the first 20 seem downright pedestrian for 
Admiral Group. And if I do my job well, then when the next 
wave of management takes over, it will inherit a very strong 
foundation upon which to construct their skyscraper.  
Before we attack the next 20 years, let’s take a look at  
the 20th! 
In 2012 the return to form of the UK business was heart-
warming to all of us. We enjoyed substantial reductions  
in the actuarial view of best estimate for the back years, 
which has in turn allowed us to release some reserves  
and increase the reserve stock for the future. The upshot 
of all this is a 15% increase in profits at Group level. Nice.
In addition, we did not chase growth. A common 
misconception seems to surround the question of 
policyholder growth and profit growth. If one tries to 
make a simple link between these two it would  
Chief Executive’s  
statement
completely miss the third part of the triangle: margin. 
Prices in the market fell more than 10% in 2012. We chased 
it some of the way down but not all the way down. As a 
result we kept some integrity with regard to margin. 
We believe that to have chased the market further, such 
that we could present greater year-end policyholder 
growth, would have meant sacrificing profit in both the 
short- and long-term. 
The UK car insurance market has, historically, been 
violently cyclical: some profitable years followed by big 
losses. There is no reason to believe that the market will 
stop being cyclical, although the extent of the future 
violence is as yet unknown. Therefore there will be far 
better opportunities to grow at the next turn in the cycle,  
when rates begin going up faster than claims inflation. 
Admiral is in the enviable position of being profitable 
throughout the cycle. This allows us to choose when  
we grow and how much we grow and what margins  
we maintain. 
It was also a good sign that Confused.com, for the first 
time in four years, made more profit than the year before. 
However, the trading environment for Confused will be 
even more challenging in 2013. The rate of aggregator 
growth in the market is slowing. This isn’t a surprise for  
two reasons: first, so many people are already using  
price comparison that there aren’t that many new people 
left! Secondly, as rates tumble in the market consumers 
get renewal notices with premiums lower than last year. 
This only serves to dampen their enthusiasm for shopping. 
Confused is doing a lot of interesting things however to  
try and insulate itself from the vagaries of the car insurance 
market. It has, for example, a very sophisticated offering  
of credit cards and it has developed a very nifty app to 
help drivers find parking wherever they’re at in the UK. 
2012 saw Admiral take a big but small step. After 19 years, 
11 months and 16 days of having car insurance as the 
only stand-alone, underwritten product, we launched 
household insurance in the UK on 18 December, 2012. It’s 
a big step because we have, for the first time, diversified 
the product range which we underwrite. It’s a small step 
because the business is intended to be very small in the 
first year or two. Test and learn, test and learn…
The results outside the UK were mixed.
The insurance businesses made some strides towards 
being growing, profitable, sustainable businesses, 
however, these strides were not as long as anticipated. 
Overall the opportunities are well worth the investment 
but we do need to pick up our game and make more 
progress, more quickly. 
The non-UK price comparison businesses each had a 
good year. The results for Rastreator and LeLynx, in Spain 
and France respectively, were better than expected. 
These two businesses are poised for great things, but 
achieving greatness is never easy.
Turnover
£2,21 5m
Profit before tax
£344.6m
Earnings per share 
 
95. 1 p
Full year dividend 
per share
90.6p
 2012 £2,215m 
 2011 £2,190m 
 2012 £344.6m 
 2011 £299.1m 
 2012 95.1p 
 2011 81.9p 
 2012 90.6p 
 2011 75.6p 
Henry Engelhardt, CBE
Chief Executive Officer 
Admiral Group plc 
Annual Report 2012 08 Our business model 
1. Profitable
 Focused on delivering year on year growth.
2. Growing
  100% organic, long-term approach to growth  
that adjusts according to market conditions.
3. Low risk
  No debt, cash balances conservatively  
managed and loss protection through the  
use of co- and reinsurance.
4. Cash generative
 Strong cash flow and high dividend payout ratio.
5. Aligned interests
  Significant share distribution throughout  
the organisation.
6. High return on capital
 Enabled by a capital light strategy.
Our strategic priorities
1.  Grow profitably our share of the UK private motor  
insurance market.
2.   Exploit the knowledge, skills and resources 
attaching to our established UK businesses to 
promote our expansion overseas in both private 
motor and price comparison.
3.   Learn by taking relatively small and inexpensive 
steps to test different approaches and identify 
the best way forward.
4.  Operate a ‘capital-light’ business model 
transferring a significant proportion of our 
underwriting risk to reinsurance partners, 
which in turn allows Admiral to distribute 
the majority of our earnings as dividends.
5.   Give all our staff a stake in what they create by 
making them shareholders.
 6.  Recognise the responsibility we have to the 
communities of which we are a part.
Following on from the success of Rastreator and LeLynx, 
just after the end of the year we launched the beta version 
of a price comparison site in the US, Comparenow.com. 
Until now no one has done European-style price 
comparison in the US and so Comparenow will plough 
new ground. Comparenow is attempting to change 
normal shopping patterns on a big scale and success  
is sure to be challenging and exciting in equal parts. 
Admiral Group’s strategy is not complicated. Based on 
the premise that the internet is an irresistible force, our 
strategy is to continue to progress in the UK market while 
taking what we know and do well, which is internet and 
telephone delivery of car insurance, beyond the UK. 
Translation: keep doing what we’re doing but do it better 
than we did it last year. 
And that in itself will be challenging because the bar was 
raised again in 2012 with a new record for profits (which 
we’ve done every year since we went public in 2004 and 
actually a few years before) and a return on capital of 60%. 
Financial milestones are great but one of the most 
rewarding moments of the first 20 years came in 2012 
when we were named the best large company to work  
for in the UK and the 4th best multinational company to 
work for in Europe, by the Great Place to Work
®
 Institute. 
We have a simple philosophy at Admiral: if people like 
what they do, they’ll do it better. So we go out of our way 
to make this a good place to work. The result: happier 
staff, record profits. 
Finally, it was a year marked by a long-overdue action. In 
the last half of December David Stevens, co-founder and 
COO, several other senior managers and I went through 
an entry-level sales training course and then got on the 
phones with customers. So after 19 years and 50 weeks,  
I made my first sale! 
This experience was a real eye-opener. We all learned a 
great deal about our business doing this but the biggest 
learning point was first-hand knowledge of how great the 
people who work for us are. It was a pleasure to be trained 
by them, helped by them, play games with them and learn 
from them. We all came away with a huge respect for 
our staff’s ability to tackle the challenges created by a 
complicated product, systems, regulation, etc. and still 
give great customer service every day. We also came 
away reinforced in our belief that if you treat customers 
well they appreciate it and will treat you well too. 
In sum, 2012 was the year of the kangaroo: it bounced 
around a little bit but it turns out to be pretty big, 
strong and energetic with the babies protected in 
the mother’s pouch. 
Great. We‘re off to a good start. Let’s get on with the  
next 20 years. 
 
Henry Engelhardt, CBE
Chief Executive Officer 
5 March 2013
For more information: 
Business Review – 
UK Car Insurance  
Go to page 12 
2012 Winner 
Best Large UK  
Workplace
Voted 4th Best  
Workplace in  
Europe
2012 was the year of the 
kangaroo: it bounced 
around a little bit but it 
turns out to be pretty big, 
strong and energetic with 
the babies protected in 
the mother’s pouch.
Admiral Group plc 
Annual Report 2012 09
Performance Overview Other information Financial statements Governance
