 “ I have thoroughly enjoyed every year I have chaired Admiral.  
It is a special business”
Chairman’s statement
Succession
As announced recently this will be my last 
statement as Chairman as I shall be retiring 
at the forthcoming AGM. Given Admiral’s 
distinctive culture which underpins the 
success the business has achieved I have 
considered it my responsibility to ensure 
the Board should have a choice of strong 
internal candidates as my successor. I am 
very grateful to Penny James for leading the 
selection process which confirmed that the 
Board already had within its ranks individuals 
with the skills and experience to lead the 
Board through the challenges of the next 
five to ten years. I am delighted that as the 
outcome to that process the Board has 
selected Annette Court as my successor  
and I wish her every success. 
If I may be excused a little nostalgia, when 
I became Chairman in June 2000 Admiral 
provided private car insurance in the UK to 
512k customers with a 3% market share and 
employed 1,270 people just in Cardiff and 
Swansea. Turnover and profitability in 2000 
were £262 million and £24 million respectively. 
We now have 5.2 million customers across 5 
countries and employ almost 9,000 people 
across 16 sites and 8 countries. 2016 turnover 
and profits achieved £2.6 billion and £284 
million, or £390 million if we back out the 
impact of the Ogden rate change – that’s 
almost a 10-fold increase in turnover and a 
16-fold increase in profitability in 16 years. 
We are valued at over £5 billion and are ranked 
84 in the FTSE. We have 5 motor insurance 
businesses; 4 price comparison businesses; 
a household insurance business; 2 legal 
businesses; a start-up loans business and not 
to mention a price comparison incubator. 
The essence of Admiral
On the one hand Admiral has changed 
enormously, on the other not very much 
at all. Fundamental to our success remains 
our culture – Admiral is different in the way 
in which we engage and lead our people: in 
demonstrating in so many practical ways that 
everyone matters regardless of their role: in 
how we motivate their aiming for continuous 
improvement in everything they do: in our 
use of teamwork and our openness to share 
and support others to do a great job, whether 
or not they are in the same department, 
business, or even country: in our use of wide 
share ownership, both actual and potential, 
as a driver of common purpose. To maintain a 
culture requires it to be continually reinforced 
– to be lived by our leaders in the way in 
which they interact with those they lead: 
to be trained into our people as part of our 
development plans: to be the basis on which 
we select those who should be promoted 
to greater responsibility. I consider one of 
our management’s greatest achievements 
to be that as we have broadened our base, 
both geographically and by business-line, we 
have been able to establish that culture in 
these new businesses. Whichever of Admiral’s 
offices I visit, from Seville to Swansea, I know 
I am in Admiral because of the way in which 
our people interact with our customers and 
with each other; their quest to identify the 
small changes in what we do and how we do it 
that, taken together, create a big competitive 
difference; and their openness to discuss 
problems and willingness to embrace the 
thoughts of others. 
Test and learn has always been core to 
Admiral’s culture. Rather than spending a 
lot of time analysing an opportunity from 
every perspective and then committing 
a large investment we would rather make 
a small investment of time and/or money 
quickly and learn by doing. Partnering test 
and learn is the willingness to acknowledge 
openly when something hasn’t worked 
and either change or move on recognising 
these as opportunities to improve rather 
than mistakes for which blame should be 
attributed. This approach of test and learn is 
central to our assessing which we will pursue 
seriously amongst the other business lines 
that could complement our core strengths in 
car insurance, either because our customers 
2000 
512k
customers 
just in the UK
2016 
5.2m
customers across  
5 countries
Alastair Lyons, CBE  
Chairman
04 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report: Chairman’s statement would view the new products as relevant 
to their existing relationship with Admiral 
or because the new line of business uses 
experience and skills that we have developed 
for car insurance. Our current piloting of 
personal loans is a case in point here, whilst 
our UK household insurance portfolio of 
470,000 policies and already profitable three 
years after launch is a great example of a line 
of business that has passed successfully from 
pilot into full production. 
Whilst we devote time and resource to 
exploring new opportunities outside of 
car insurance we also recognise fully that 
this remains our core focus with significant 
potential for growth beyond our current 
13% market share as and when it is the 
right point in the cycle to grow. So the 
capability required to develop our business 
must be, and is, incremental to, rather than 
dilutive of, our core. We continue to invest 
as much thought and resource as we ever 
have in improving the effectiveness of our 
motor insurance proposition, whether it be 
in pricing analytics, claims management, 
or customer self-service. However we 
also recognise that if we are to develop 
successfully new lines of business such as 
personal loans we need to add new skills and 
experience to our existing management 
whilst at the same time assimilating this new 
talent within our distinctive culture. 
We are also strong believers in the potential 
of partnership to combine the skills, 
experience and resources of others with 
those that Admiral has developed and to 
share both risk and reward when entering 
new markets, particularly those that require 
material levels of investment. Our long term 
partnership with Munich Re has lasted for 
17 years and is committed through to at 
least 2020 in the UK: we are partnering with 
Mapfre in Spanish and US price comparison 
and in Preminen, our price comparison 
incubator: White Mountains, the US 
insurance venture capital specialist, is also 
invested alongside Admiral in compare.com 
What we do
 Read more on Page 10
How we do it
 Read more on Page 12
“The agent who set up my policy, Kath, was excellent. She was 
extremely efficient and was able to quickly sort out a quote for me 
based on two vehicles and a household on a multi-product policy. 
She was also able to cancel the previous two policies. I don’t know 
what you’re feeding these folks, but these aren’t just normal agents, 
they’re some kind of ‘super-agents’”
UK New Business
A great customer experience
which has made strong progress again 
this year, increasing the number of insurer 
partners and, therefore, the number of 
quotes returned to customers, driving down 
cost per sale, and raising its penetration of 
its target markets. But changing the pattern 
of distribution in US auto insurance is a big 
nut to crack and we may take others into 
partnership along this journey. 
2016 in overview
This year’s performance is testament to  
our focussing successfully on our core UK 
motor business, our book growing by 11%  
to 3.6 million cars, a 13% market share  
whilst UK motor generated profits of  
£441 million (before the impact of the 
Ogden rate change), maintaining last year’s 
level. The UK motor profit after the impact 
of the Ogden change is £336 million. We 
have continued to take advantage of firm 
market conditions to move prices ahead 
a little more slowly than the average of 
the market allowing us to grow our book 
whilst returning a good underwriting result 
for Admiral and its reinsurance partners. 
Effective pricing supported by data analysis 
and predictive modelling, and really 
insightful claims management underpin our 
success and we are always looking for new 
ways to make risk analysis more reflective 
of the characteristics of the individual 
driver. In this vein we believe we are now the 
largest deployer of telematics in the UK. 
2016 was broadly a year of growth across 
our insurance businesses outside the UK, 
taking advantage of the sound platforms 
that have now been created in Italy, the US, 
and Spain and the move in France last year to 
in-source all our operations as the precursor 
of growth. In the US we had 20% more 
customers at the end of 2016 than at the 
beginning, whilst our European operations 
grew by 31%. The insurance business model 
in the US is different to Europe with much 
higher new business acquisition costs, so 
growth requires investment. In Europe, there 
will also be periods when countries decide 
the market conditions are right to accelerate 
which may in turn justify further investment, 
as in Spain this year.
Our price comparison sector combines a 
highly competitive operation in a largely 
mature market (Confused); market-leading 
players with large market shares but whose 
challenge is growth in markets where there 
is little incentive for customers to look to 
switch insurers (Rastreator and LeLynx); 
and a business that is seeking to rewrite the 
rules of insurance customer engagement 
(compare.com). Across the piece our 
combined price comparison operations made 
a small profit, supported by encouraging 
progress by Confused as it seeks to establish 
a differentiated market positioning as ‘No. 1 
for car savings’. 
Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Introduction
05 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report  For the last couple of months the resetting 
of the Ogden rate by the Ministry of 
Justice has represented a significant area 
of uncertainty outside of our control. The 
announcement on 27 February 2017 by the 
Lord Chancellor of the new rate of minus 
0.75% has allowed this to be reflected 
within our 2016 accounts and represents a 
very material reduction from the previous 
2.5% rate, increasing claims reserves by 
more than we would want to absorb within 
the, albeit significant, margin that we hold 
over best estimate. We have, therefore, 
reduced our second half reported results 
by £105 million, and to a much lesser 
extent the profits of subsequent years 
will also be reduced as the affected claims 
settle. Given, however, our strong capital 
position, this has not impacted our ability 
to maintain our 2016 final dividend at the 
level we declared in 2015. We anticipate 
that if market pricing adjusts future 
premiums to reflect the lower discount 
rate, there will be no significant impact on 
future business and its profitability after 
the change. We strongly support the ABI’s 
call for a fundamental review of the basis 
on which the Ogden rate is set in order to 
ensure that the relevant compensation 
awards are set appropriately and welcome 
the intent of the Lord Chancellor and the 
Chancellor of the Exchequer to implement 
this review expeditiously.
A proposed final dividend of 51.5 pence per 
share brings dividends for the year to 114.4 
pence per share, a yield of 6.3% on the £18.18 
share price at the 2016 year end. 
The team
May last year marked the retirement 
of Henry Engelhardt after 25 years as 
Chief Executive albeit I am delighted he 
is continuing to give us some of his time 
working in the UK and overseas. That the 
transition from Henry to David Stevens 
has been seamless is itself testament to 
Admiral’s culture of teamwork and open 
management. Henry always said that he 
would time his retirement when he judged 
the business had the required depth of 
management and over the years the Board 
has focussed on understanding the talent 
emerging within the business and how it 
has been, and is planned to be, developed. 
It is, therefore, very gratifying to see David 
now ably supported by Cristina Nestares 
leading the UK Insurance business, with 
Alistair Hargreaves working alongside her, 
and by Milena Mondini leading the European 
insurance businesses. Cristina and Milena 
have both been with Admiral for 11 years 
having founded, and successfully developed, 
our Spanish and Italian insurance businesses 
and then broadened their management 
responsibilities leading to their current 
roles. Alistair has been with Admiral eight 
years, having begun his career in finance 
and investor relations and then taken 
increasingly significant management roles 
within the UK motor business. Development 
and recruitment of management talent is a 
core enabler of Admiral’s continued growth 
and development and I am very encouraged 
by the quality and potential of those I meet 
in middle and senior management positions 
as I spend time across our various businesses. 
Thank you
I have thoroughly enjoyed every year I have 
chaired Admiral. It is a special business 
because of the way in which it does business, 
its absolute focus on delivering what the 
customer wants, and its beliefs that if people 
enjoy what they are doing and own part of 
the business that employs them they will 
do a better job. In the same way as Admiral 
seeks to assess the right price for each 
driver as an individual so it respects the 
contribution of each individual who works 
with us, caring about their well-being and 
giving them the opportunity to develop and 
progress to fulfil their individual potential. It 
is a company with which I am very proud to 
have been associated and I thank everyone 
in Admiral with whom I have worked for a 
great experience. 
With a core business in such good form, a 
nursery of other businesses at varying stages 
of maturity, and a hothouse of opportunities 
which may or may not take root and get 
planted out, but most of all with the people 
we have in the business, I am confident that 
Admiral will continue to develop and prosper 
over the next 16 years as it has over the last. 
 
 
Alastair Lyons, CBE
Chairman 
7 March 2017
Chairman’s statement continued
06 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report: Chairman’s statement Our year in pictures
1. ConTe winning 2nd best 
large work place 2016 in 
Great Place to Work® in 
Italy 2016
2. Henry and Diane’s gift of 
£1,000 to each member  
of staff
3. Confused.com’s new 
advertising campaign  
with James Corden 
4. David’s first day as CEO
5. Elephant starts selling  
in two new US states
6. 5 millionth customer
7. Admiral Seguros’  
10th birthday
1 2
3
5
4 7 6
Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Strategic Report Introduction
07 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
