 What a great… performance
Very few people can claim to have contributed 
as much to Admiral’s success as Alastair Lyons. 
So it’d be wrong to start my first Chief Executive 
report with anything other than a tribute to his 
contribution over the last 16 years. The Board 
collectively, Admiral’s senior managers, and Henry 
and myself in particular, have benefitted from his 
wisdom, experience and thoughtfulness, and during 
our (occasional) moments of crisis, his composure.
Perhaps most importantly, notwithstanding an 
apparently conservative profile as a Chartered 
Accountant and financial services veteran, Alastair 
has consistently been an encouraging supporter of 
Admiral’s distinctiveness rather than an advocate 
of the apparently safe option of convergence to 
industry norms.
In his statement, Alastair has laid out the 
transformation, in scale and breadth, of Admiral 
over the 16 years of his stewardship. He describes 
how 2016 has been another year of substantial 
growth both in our core UK car insurance business 
and across the Group as a whole.
Rather than re-visit 2016 myself (and to duck 
the challenge of trying to find a pithy culinary 
metaphor to describe the year – see previous Chief 
Executive Statements), I’ll look forward and answer 
a question some shareholders may be asking. 
Namely: “Should I sell Admiral and buy Insurtech?”
For those of you with limited time, or for whom the 
suspense is too much, the short answer, in my view, 
is “no”. Read on for a longer answer.
Insurtech is generating lots of excitement. Visiting 
investment bankers, who historically would have 
arrived with fat packs on attractive big ticket 
acquisitions, now also include charts showing 
the explosive growth in Insurtech, along with a 
busy “Insurtech landscape” page, packed with 
the colourful logos of whizzily named Insurtech 
start-ups, bunched (sometimes shoe-horned) 
into helpful categories (“sharing economy”, 
“P2P”, “mobile insurance”, “telematics”, “auto 
comparison”, “short term cover”). A big brand 
consulting firm recently shared the results of a 
survey suggesting that “insurance CEO’s” expect 
new entrants to capture 30% of the insurance 
market over the next five years.
I disagree. 
I say that not because the ideas emerging aren’t 
interesting, far from it. Nor because many of the 
Insurtech pioneers aren’t very bright and creative 
(and it’s great to see that creativity focussed 
on insurance).
I disagree for two reasons.
The first reason is that many of the ideas won’t 
work in practice. Many, while technologically 
feasible, even impressive, involve an under-
appreciation of the complexity of insurance; the 
importance, for example, of avoiding customers 
you really don’t want to insure or the challenge 
of engaging policyholders in a deeper interaction 
with their insurance when, in truth, most of our 
customers want the opposite. Insurtech start-
ups promising on-again, off-again, item by item 
insurance are offering a consumer “benefit” that 
most of our customers wouldn’t recognise as such.
The second reason is that Admiral already, in many 
important respects, is “Insurtech”. The two most 
fundamental Insurtech sectors; “fundamental” in 
terms of their ability to transform the competitive 
landscape and substantially re-distribute market 
share, are “auto-comparison” and “telematics”. 
On “auto-comparison” we are leading players with 
established businesses in the UK, Spain and France 
and a pioneering, potentially transformational US 
price comparison business in compare.com. And 
as for “telematics”, we sell telematics-based car 
insurance in three countries and in the UK we are, by 
some margin, the largest player in the market with 
over 200,000 live policies. Beyond those sectors, 
our ever-evolving range of products (“Airbnb” home 
insurance, Admiral short-term cover, insurance 
cover for the peer to peer car sharing sites) show 
we’re not neglecting the interesting, if at this point 
more marginal, emerging opportunities. Admiral’s 
success has always been about embracing change 
when that’s in the interest of our customers and 
shareholders. So stick with us and enjoy the best  
of insurance, and Insurtech, all in one bundle.
David Stevens
Chief Executive Officer  
7 March 2017
The highlights
13%
UK Motor
market share
3rd year
of Con T e profits
50%
growth in
UK Household 
customers
17
consecutive years 
Best Companies to 
Work For Awards
 “ Admiral’s success has always been about embracing change 
when that’s in the interest of our customers and shareholders”
David Stevens, CBE 
Chief Executive Officer
16 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report: Chief Executive’s Statement My priorities for the forthcoming year are  
set out below. I expect them to remain my 
priorities for a number of years to come.
Ensure Admiral remains one of, if not the, best car 
insurers in the UK
Admiral has built its success on doing car insurance more 
effectively that its peers. Maintaining our lead in cost 
efficiency, rigorous risk selection and effective claims 
management has required Admiral to keep evolving and 
innovating and we need to continue to do so in the future.
Demonstrate Admiral can be a great car  
insurer beyond the UK
Our insurance operations beyond the UK are at 
different stages of development and relative 
competitive competence. Mobilising, ideally, all the 
collective talents of the Group, to ensure most, or all, 
of these operations become sources of sustainable 
profitable growth is a priority.
Develop sources of growth and profits  
beyond car insurance
Admiral’s first major diversification from car insurance 
was household insurance, launched three years ago in the 
UK. I expect the second will be personal lending in the UK. 
Both take us into huge markets and in both cases our car 
insurance heritage provides some of the necessary skills 
and assets to succeed. Our priority will be to grow both, 
focussing on a long term objective of developing sources  
of competitive advantage, not short term top or bottom-
line objectives.
Ensure Admiral stays a great place to work
I don’t run Admiral purely for the benefit of shareholders. 
It’s important that those of us who work for Admiral are 
glad we do, most of the time. Happily, what’s good for 
staff is normally good for shareholders. A key reason 
for Admiral’s success over the last 25 years has been the 
loyalty of talented staff to the company, and the collective 
sense of shared endeavour that has helped us do lots of 
things a little better than our competitors.
My priorities
17 Admiral Group plc · Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Additional Information Corporate Governance Strategic Report Introduction
