 Chief Executive’s Statement
Creating quality  
outcomes...
I am pleased to report another strong set of results 
across the Group. Our revenue has increased 
20% to £82.6 million (2015: £68.6 million) and we 
have improved our adjusted
6
 profit before tax and 
before exceptional items by 13% to £19.7 million 
(2015: £17.4 million), marking the twelfth 
consecutive year we have delivered growth in 
revenue, profits and earnings per share.
We continue to deliver on our strategy for growth 
by expanding into new geographies, increasing 
our distribution of surgical products through 
our direct sales forces, enhancing our product 
portfolio and providing high quality products that 
add value to payors in our advanced woundcare 
and surgical markets.
Branded Distributed
The Branded Distributed Business Unit reports 
the sales of our brands through third party 
distributors where the Group does not have a 
direct sales force.
Branded Distributed reported revenue was 42% 
higher at £20.8 million (2015: £14.6 million) 
and 30% higher at constant currency. The main 
contributor to this growth continues to be the 
sales of our LiquiBand
®
 range of products into 
the US, which accounted for 60% of the Business 
Unit’s total sales.
6
 All items are shown before amortisation of acquired intangible 
assets which, in 2016, was £0.2 million (2015: £0.4 million) as 
defined in the Financial Review and before exceptional items 
which were £0.4 million (2015 :£nil)
06
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016 Right: LiquiBand
®
Fix8
™
 Hernia 
Mesh Fixation device
LiquiBand
®
 in the US
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 in the US increased by 56% 
to £12.5 million (2015: £8.0 million) at reported 
currency and by 39% at constant currency. 
We have now increased our volume market 
share in the US market to 23.7%
7
 up from the 
half year and exceeding the initial target of 20% 
set when we first launched this product into 
the US in 2010.
Our LiquiBand
®
 range of products utilises 
different formulations of cyanoacrylate that 
meet the needs of the surgeon and are sold by 
our distributors throughout the whole of the US. 
LiquiBand
®
 products combine cyanoacrylate 
adhesive technology with innovatively 
designed applicators that are able to meet the 
requirements of the surgeon and the treatment 
of the full spectrum of wounds that they need 
to close and protect. Our US based product sales 
specialists continue to work closely with our 
distributors to convert more hospitals and we are 
now targeting a further 10% market gain above 
our initial target over the next three years, to take 
our market share by volume to at least 30%.
LiquiBand
®
 in the EU and Rest of the World 
(ROW)
Outside of the US, in the EU and ROW, our 
sales of LiquiBand
®
 have increased by 29% to 
£2.2 million (2015: £1.7 million) at reported 
currency and 28% at constant currency. We have 
now started to increase our sales in Asia-Pacific 
by signing distributorships in these regions and 
are supporting these with personnel based in the 
region. We are already seeing some early success 
with an additional seven distributorships agreed, 
selling our tissue adhesives, haemostats and 
sutures. This provides a significant opportunity 
for us in the medium-term.
Our regulatory approval process for LiquiBand
®
 
in China has proved challenging and has been 
paused. The tissue adhesive market in China 
is small and nascent and will take some time 
to develop. In the meantime we will invest 
resources into gaining access into the more 
readily accessible markets in Asia and the 
Middle East.
... for our employees,  
customers and for patients
“ 2016 was the 
twelfth consecutive 
year we have 
delivered growth 
in revenue, profits 
and earnings 
per share.”
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
7
 Data supplied by Global Healthcare Exchange
Company Overview
Strategic Report  
Governance
Financial Statements
07
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016 Hernia Mesh Fixation Device - LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
AMS received approval to market LiquiBand
®
 
Fix8
™
 in Europe in May 2014. This was the Group’s 
first application using medical cyanoacrylate 
technology inside the body. It is used to hold 
hernia meshes in place within the body instead 
of traditional tacks and staples. This accurate 
laparoscopic application of adhesive is expected 
to reduce surgical complications, in particular 
the potential pain associated with the use of 
tacks and staples, thereby improving the patient 
experience and reducing healthcare costs overall.
Surgeon response to LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 has been 
very positive about the ease of use of this device 
and the benefit it brings to patients regarding 
the reduced incidence of post-operative pain. 
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 in our Branded 
Distributed Unit increased by 69% to £1.1 million 
(2015: £0.7 million). A number of surgeons 
have endorsed the product and have provided 
valuable feedback about enhancements to the 
device as well as other possible non-hernia 
applications. The Company is actively exploring 
these opportunities. Having had more than 
12 months’ feedback from European usage, 
we have made improvements to the device. 
We are now in a position to start the process 
to gain approval to market this device in the 
US. As this will be a first-to-market device into 
the US, the regulatory process will be a full 
Pre Market Approval (PMA) involving clinical trials. 
Our estimate is that it will take around three years 
to achieve, requiring an investment of at least 
£3.0 million.
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 products to all export 
markets (excluding Russia) increased by 
25% at reported currency to £3.9 million 
(2015: £3.1 million), and by 12% at constant 
currency. Within this, our sales of dental products 
have increased 33% to £1.9 million and 20% at 
constant currency. This includes our first sales of 
dental sutures into the US following their approval 
from the FDA in 2015.
We launched a range of dental sutures into the 
US with a specialised dental distributor in March 
2016 and have achieved £0.2 million of sales 
in the first year. Gaining US approval for the 
RESORBA
®
 product range has been an aim for 
the Group since we acquired the business in late 
2011 and now provides a significant opportunity 
for the Group in the medium-term. The total 
US surgical suture market is estimated to be 
in excess of $1 billion in size and is dominated 
by a few major brands.
Sales in Russia increased by 28% at constant 
currency, and increased 29% at reported 
currency to £1.0 million (2015: £0.8 million) 
reflecting improved market conditions.
Research and Development
In R&D our focus is on continuing to improve 
the formulations of the base monomers 
that are used in our adhesives as well as 
improving the design and innovation around 
our devices. We have modified the tip and 
priming mechanism of our hernia fixation device 
following surgeon feedback and have started the 
process to get FDA approval to sell this product 
into the US.
Development work has also started on an open 
hernia mesh fixation device which we hope will 
gain approval in Europe this year.
In addition, work has begun on gaining approval 
in Europe for the LiquiBand
®
 Fix 8
™
 device for 
new indications and it is expected we will be 
selling the first of these in 2018.
Branded Direct
The Branded Direct Business Unit reports sales 
of our branded products through our own 
sales teams in the UK, Germany and Czech 
Republic. Reported revenue increased 10% to 
£24.6 million (2015: £22.3 million) and grew by 
3% at constant currency.
UK
Within the UK we supply our range of woundcare 
dressings, ActivHeal
®
 into the NHS, supplying 
both hospitals and community care. We supply 
LiquiBand
®
, haemostats and sutures as part of 
our surgical offering.
ActivHeal
®
ActivHeal
®
 is our range of high quality 
woundcare dressings that offer the NHS 
significant cost savings without compromising 
on clinical outcomes or patient care. Sales of our 
ActivHeal
®
 range decreased by 5% to £6.0 million 
(2015: £6.4 million) as we failed to make up the 
lost ground that occurred during destocking 
in the first half of the year. We have been 
disappointed by this performance and have 
taken a number of initiatives to reinvigorate sales. 
We have refocused our sales efforts, provided 
further training to our commercial team and 
have enhanced our education and marketing 
materials. We have also strengthened our brand 
by broadening the product range being offered 
to include our antimicrobial and atraumatic 
foam dressings. ActivHeal
®
 offers a compelling 
proposition for the NHS and remains a significant 
opportunity for the Group.
08
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Statement continued LiquiBand
®
Sales of LiquiBand
®
 into the Accident and 
Emergency Room (A&E) in the UK increased 
1% to £2.3 million (2015: £2.3 million), reversing 
the decline of the prior year and addressing the 
competitive challenges we have seen, while sales 
of LiquiBand
®
 into the Operating Room (OR) 
increased 31% to £0.9 million (2015: £0.7 million). 
We are confident of the market opportunity 
for LiquiBand
®
 in the UK, particularly in the 
Operating Room. Sales of LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 in the 
UK increased to £0.1 million (2015: £0.05 million).
Germany and the Czech Republic
Germany is one of the key markets in Europe 
and sales of LiquiBand
®
 in Germany, and the 
Czech Republic, increased 20% at reported 
currency to £1.7 million (2015: £1.4 million) 
and by 8% at constant currency, while sales of 
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 increased 88% to £0.5 million 
(2015: £0.2 million). We are pleased with the 
steady progress we are making in converting 
doctors and surgeons to the benefits of 
LiquiBand
®
 and LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
.
RESORBA
®
Sales of RESORBA
®
 branded products in 
Germany and the Czech Republic increased 
15% at £13.1 million (2015: £11.3 million) at 
reported level and 4% at constant currency. 
Within this, sales of haemostats increased 
by 21% to £3.9 million (2015: £3.3 million) 
and by 9% at constant currency, sales of 
sutures and collagens into the dental market 
increased by 14% to £3.5 million and by 3% at 
constant currency, whilst sales of sutures into 
hospitals were increased by 11% to £4.7 million 
(2015: £4.1 million) and flat at constant currency. 
We are seeing some success in targeting smaller 
accounts that should prove quicker to convert. 
However, it can take some time for conversions 
to be fully effective. We believe our ability to 
supply a comprehensive range of high quality 
sutures that provide cost savings to hospitals 
remains compelling.
Sales of RESORBA
®
 sutures and haemostats 
into the NHS increased by 18% to £0.2 million 
(2015: £0.2 million) and this still remains a 
sizeable opportunity for us, even though 
conversion remains slower than we would like.
Research and Development
In R&D, our focus is on extending the attributes 
of our collagens to meet the needs of dental 
surgeons as well as including new antibiotics 
in our haemostats. We also may consider 
licensing our technology to other parties if 
this will result in products being quicker to 
launch. Longer term we are looking to develop 
innovative applications for collagen to address 
unmet clinical needs or improve the outcome 
of current surgical procedures.
OEM
The OEM Business Unit reports the sales of 
products that are sold under third parties’ brands. 
We have been working with several of the world’s 
major woundcare companies for a number 
of years. We provide manufacturing services 
to supply their woundcare dressings, new 
products they can incorporate into their portfolio 
of brands, as well as regulatory assistance in 
obtaining product approvals in overseas markets.
OEM revenue increased by 16% at reported 
currency to £32.1 million (2015: £27.7 million) 
and by 12% at constant currency.
Our OEM business is dependent on the success 
of the customers that our partners serve and 
the outcome of their strategies. Historically, it is 
prone to volatility as a result of ordering patterns, 
pipeline filling associated with new product 
launches and variability surrounding tender 
award allocations. Consequently, revenues and 
product mix can vary from year to year and can 
impact operating margin. In general, as we work 
with a large number of partners, the potential 
effects of this volatility are mitigated. Through the 
latter part of 2016 we have identified that there 
has been a slowdown in activity in the Middle 
East resulting in delays in the determination 
of some hospital tender awards; this is having 
an impact on some of our partners that have 
significant business in the region. We are yet 
to see a reversal of this trend in 2017. This may 
impact performance of this Business Unit in the 
short term, however, we continue to believe in 
the long-term potential of this growth market.
In 2016 we introduced two new ranges of 
foam products; our antimicrobial foam range 
containing Polyhexamethylene Biguanide (PHMB) 
and our atraumatic foam range incorporating 
silicone, facilitating easy dressing removal from 
sensitive skin. These have been successfully 
launched this year.
Company Overview
Strategic Report  
Governance
Financial Statements
09
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016 We received CE approval in Europe for 
our antimicrobial dressing on 1 September 
2015. PHMB has been shown to be effective 
against several bacteria including, amongst 
others, Staphylococcus Aureus including the 
methicillin resistant type, (MRSA) and Escherichia 
Coli (E-Coli) and this dressing may be used 
throughout the healing process on moderate to 
heavily exuding chronic and acute wounds that 
are infected or are at risk of infection as well as 
on pressure ulcers, leg and foot ulcers, diabetic 
ulcers and surgical wounds. 
Our PHMB foam dressing range augments our 
antimicrobial, silver alginate dressing ranges 
and provides an alternative method of treating 
infected wounds. We are currently working to 
achieve approval for our PHMB foam dressings 
in the US and once this is received we expect 
to be able to launch later this year. 
Our silver alginate business grew by 4% to 
£16.2 million (2015: £15.5 million) at a reported 
level, but sales were flat at constant currency with 
the silver range taken by one specific partner 
being particularly affected by the slow-down in 
the Middle East. Excluding this partner’s sales, 
the rest of the silver alginate business grew 5% 
at constant currency. 
Our new PHMB dressings may have had some 
impact on our silver alginate business, however, 
our combined sales of all antimicrobial ranges 
have increased by 13% at a reported level to 
£17.5 million (2015: £15.5 million) and by 9% 
at constant currency.
The launch of our range of atraumatic foam 
dressings into our advanced woundcare range 
has further extended our foam portfolio and 
sales of all our foam-based dressings have 
increased 196% to £5.3 million (2015: £1.8 million) 
and by 191% at constant currency.
Sales of other woundcare products have also 
continued to perform well and have increased 
by 9% to £10.5 million (2015: £9.7 million) and by 
5% at constant currency.
During 2016, we renegotiated the supply 
agreement with an OEM partner for collagen 
products, from an exclusive to a non-exclusive 
arrangement, allowing us to now supply an 
enhanced range of collagen products through 
our distributors into the EU and through our 
direct sales force in the UK. In the medium-term, 
we expect increased sales in both our Branded 
Direct and Branded Distributed Business Units, 
as our collagen product portfolio is extended. 
As anticipated, given that the OEM partner is no 
longer required to meet a minimum amount 
of sales to maintain exclusivity, this has resulted 
in a decline of the sales of collagen products 
in the Business Unit, which reduced by 85% to 
£0.1 million and by 87% at constant currency.
Research and Development
We continue to work on extending our advanced 
woundcare portfolio with focus on extending our 
antimicrobial range, improving the absorbency of 
dressings and combining a number of materials 
to enhance product performance.
Bulk Materials
The Bulk Materials Business Unit reports sales of 
bulk materials to third party converters as well as 
supplying foam into the OEM and Branded Direct 
Business Units as a key material in our foam-
based wound dressings.
Bulk Materials revenue increased by 33% at reported 
currency to £5.2 million (2015: £3.9 million) and by 
21% at constant currency.
Rollstock foam contributed around 93% of Bulk 
Materials revenue and good growth was seen 
by several partners.
Research and Development
In R&D, the focus is on developing new foam 
formulations, working in conjunction with the 
OEM Business Unit.
Operations
Efficiency and gross margins
We continue to make operational improvements 
by reducing set up times, eliminating non-value 
added activities and increasing outputs wherever 
possible. These incremental efficiencies help to 
improve gross margins across the Group.
The launches of the two new foam dressing 
ranges have required new converting processes 
to be developed and the success of the launches 
has resulted in significant volumes of new 
product being required. We are pleased that we 
met these significant volume demands, however, 
the initial efficiencies of these processes have 
been lower than for our more established 
ranges and lower than we would expect to 
obtain on a regular basis. We estimate that these 
operating effects have had a negative impact 
of around 400 basis points on the operating 
margins for the OEM Business Unit, where 
most of the sales of these products have been 
recorded. Changes are currently being made 
to the manufacturing processes to improve our 
efficiencies and we would expect to see margin 
improvement in 2017.
10
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Statement continued Capacity and resource
Investment is being made in The Netherlands 
to increase our foam capacity by approximately 
40%. A new line is expected to be operational in 
the second half of 2017.
We continue to invest in improving our ERP 
(Enterprise Resource Planning) management 
and reporting systems and having already 
successfully completed the implementation 
in Winsford, Plymouth and The Netherlands 
facilities where we have converted to Oracle ERP. 
We are now working on implementing Oracle 
ERP in Germany. The project is expected to 
complete in the second half of 2017.
Regulatory and quality assurance
With the regulatory framework becoming 
increasingly complex, we have continued to 
invest in both Regulatory and Quality functions 
and systems to ensure that we are able to 
support our partners with winning approvals in 
new markets as well as obtaining approval for our 
own products.
The FDA conducted its first ever routine 
inspection at the Group in June 2016 at our 
Winsford site and we were pleased with the 
positive outcome.
On the back of our success with LiquiBand
®
 
Fix 8
™
 in Europe we have started work to gain 
approval to market this product in the US which 
will involve a full PMA and is likely to take at 
least three years with an investment of at least 
£3 million.
We are also working on identifying the regulatory 
pathway to approve the inclusion of antibiotics 
in collagens and progressing with obtaining 
approval to sell our collagen products in the 
US. The latter approval is expected in late 2017 / 
early 2018.
Our regulatory approval process for LiquiBand
®
 
in China has continued to be challenging. 
Having resubmitted our files to the Chinese FDA 
further extensive Chinese based clinical trials 
have been requested. As there is a lack of clarity 
around the nature of the trials we have decided 
to cease the process until there is more certainty 
around what is required for approval.
Our culture
As a Group that is highly dependent on the 
innovation and creativity of our employees for 
our future growth and success, it is important 
that we have a culture and set of values that is 
clearly understood across the business. We have 
adopted the business motto of ‘The AMS Care, 
Fair, Dare approach’ to summarise our culture, 
underpin our values, and to deliver results, 
building a sustainable future for our business. 
Under this motto, we have defined the principles 
and expectations of how we will operate 
together to deliver success.
We recognise the importance of our people to 
the Group and that it is only by their effective 
engagement that we will continue to be highly 
successful. We value their commitment and 
determination to achieve and deliver good 
results. Our working environment encourages 
openness, teamwork, an understanding 
of others’ needs and the ability ‘to make a 
difference’. We continue to develop the talent at 
AMS by training and by providing a place to work 
where our employees feel valued, incentivised 
and fulfilled.
Acquisition strategy
The Group is actively looking for businesses that 
fit its acquisition strategy. During the period, an 
opportunity was identified and work undertaken 
to understand the business in more detail. As a 
result of the outcome of this work, a decision 
was taken not to proceed. An exceptional charge 
of £0.4 million has been incurred relating to this 
activity. The Group continues to actively review 
suitable acquisition opportunities.
Referendum vote to leave the EU
There has been no immediate impact on 
the Group’s operations following the UK’s 
referendum vote to leave the EU other than the 
positive impact on currency exchange rates. 
The Group is considering the potential impact 
to the business once the UK leaves the EU 
and has started to plan for this outcome.
Company Overview
Strategic Report  
Governance
Financial Statements
11
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016 Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Right: Patient focus
Creating quality outcomes  
for patients using our silicone 
foam dressing
Summary and Outlook
We have delivered a reported 20% revenue 
growth, 13% at constant currency, with good 
profitability and cash generation during the year.
All Business Units have delivered growth at 
constant currency with US sales, in particular, 
delivering a very strong performance and, not 
withstanding the OEM slight headwinds in 
emerging markets, we expect this to continue in 
the coming year. We have been very pleased with 
the launches of our antimicrobial and atraumatic 
foam dressings into our advanced woundcare 
range. With the continued success of our 
LiquiBand
®
 Fix8
™
 Hernia Mesh Fixation Device, 
we are seeking approval for new indications 
and new market entry.
We continue to invest in research and 
development to keep improving our product 
range and deliver innovation that benefits payors 
and patients.
We are confident that the Group, with its highest 
quality products, is well placed to deliver growth 
and we remain optimistic about the prospects 
for our future.
Chris Meredith
Chief Executive Officer
28 April 2017
12
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc 
Annual Report 2016
