 2 Chairman’s statement
Adventis Group plc Report and Accounts 2004
This is my first statement as Chairman
of Adventis Group plc having been
appointed on 19 April 2004, prior to 
the admission to AIM on 1 July 2004.
In particular, our first six months as a
publicly quoted company have been
extremely encouraging with not only 
a significant rise in both turnover and
profit, but also with the achievement 
of the early part of our long-term
strategy through the announcement 
of a significant joint venture and a 
major acquisition.
It is pleasing to note that, in a year
when the management had to focus
on admission to AIM, both continued
successful business performance and
long term strategic development could
be achieved.This is encouraging for
our future business plans and reflects
the strength of talent within Adventis.
T oday, the group consists of six 
operating companies in three locations
employing over 80 people, providing a
broad range of marketing services to a
large range of clients.
The successful launch of AdventisNMG
Limited, as a venture with NMG
Financial Services Consulting Limited,
represents the beginning of our strategy
to offer the full range of services 
to the financial services industry.
The acquisition of Affiniti (UK) Ltd,
a specialised UK healthcare advertising
agency, was completed after the end
of the 2004 financial year. It builds
on the foothold the group already had
in this profitable market and is likely to
act as the vehicle for all future
healthcare activity.
The group comprises a talented and
commercially experienced team.The 
past year has been a turning point for 
the group in terms of funding and
strategy.Trading in 2005 has made a
positive start and is ahead of last year 
and therefore the outlook for 2005
remains encouraging. Our existing
businesses continue to perform well.
“The group comprises a talented and commercially experienced
team.The past year has been a turning point for the group in
terms of funding and strategy.Trading in 2005 has made a
positive start and is ahead of last year and therefore the outlook
for 2005 remains encouraging. Our existing businesses continue
to perform well.”
Peter Mitchell, Non-Executive Chairman
