 3 Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Report and Accounts 2004  Adventis Group plc
“I am pleased to report a strong set of maiden preliminary
results for the year ended 31 December 2004. Group billings
of £12.09m were up 32% (2003: £9.16m) and pre-tax profit
of £0.77m was up 83% (2003: £0.42m). In addition, we
benefited from healthy margins and strong cash flow.”
I am pleased to report a strong set of
maiden preliminary results for the year
ended 31 December 2004. Group billings
of £12.09m w e re up 32% (2003: £ 9 . 1 6 m )
and pre-tax profit of £0.77m was up
83% (2003: £0.42m). In addition, we
benefited from healthy margins and stro n g
cash flow.The earnings per share for
2004 of 2.2p was ahead of the previous
year at 1.7p.The board is recommending
a final dividend of 0.40p per share,
making a total for the year of 0.85p.
The group operates in a highly
competitive market place.The diversified
marketing services industry is highly
labour intensive, reflecting the reliance
on creative skill and knowledge.There is
a rising demand for specialists in various
marketing fields. Our revenues are
generated predominantly in the form
of fees for project specific work. It is
against this background that I am pleased
to report results that reflect the hard
work of all the team at Adventis.
Business strategy
The group enjoyed a more buoyant
market and most areas of the business
were able to generate higher revenues
at good margins. Since our admission
to AIM on 1 July 2004, where we raised
£2.60m net of expenses for the
group, we have pursued our business
strategy of increasing the market share
for our media services in the residential
and commercial property sectors.
Furthermore, we continue to expand
the services we provide in our other
target markets, currently comprising the
financial services and healthcare sectors.
Acquisitions and joint ventures
In August 2004, we formed A d v e n t i s N M G
Limited as a ve n t u re with NMG Financial
Services Consulting Limited, a h i g h l y
specialised management consulting firm,
providing a comprehensive range of
services to the global financial industry.
The NMG global network has unrivalled
access to financial institutions with
clients such as ISIS, Scottish Widows,
Charcol and HBOS and is able to act 
as a very effective business introducer.
In early January 2005, we completed
the acquisition of Affiniti (UK) Ltd,
a specialised UK healthcare advertising
agency with clients such as Allergan,
Sanofi Pasteur MSD, Chiron Vaccines,
Eden Biopharm, Leo Pharma, Napp
and Serono.This acquisition builds on
the foothold Adventis Group already
has in this profitable market and is likely
to act as the vehicle for all future
healthcare activity.
On 30 March 2005, having secured
the services of a senior executive from
another media company, we announced
the commencement of Adgenda Media
Limited.Adgenda will provide media
broking services to property and financial
services related companies.
Charles Phillpot, Chief Executive Officer 4 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
Adventis Group plc Report and Accounts 2004
Operational review
The following is a summary of activity
by business sector for the year ended
31 December 2004.
Residential property marketing sector 
Our residential property marketing
sector has a broad base of clients from
international names such as Savills to
many UK developers such as Capital
& Provident, Galliard and Devington
Homes. It provides a broad range of
consultancy and creative services across
the industry and has continued to
grow this creative business with
encouraging margins.
Commercial property marketing sector
Our commercial property marketing
sector won several major long-term
projects in 2004 such as the Hub in
Birmingham and the South West
Regional Development Agency
(SWERDA) in Cardiff.These project
successes continue to give the business
a positive order book for the current
year. Margins remained under pressure
in this competitive business area.
Media planning and buying sector
Our media planning and buying sector
has full NPA (Newspapers Publishing
Association) recognition. Media broking
is highly cash generative and works very
much in tandem with our residential
property marketing sector’s creative
business. Business volumes continue
to grow at good margins.The addition 
of a second media company within the
group will consolidate our position
within this sector.
Financial services sector
The new venture,AdventisNMG
Limited, which specialises in financial
services, commenced trading in
September 2004 and traded profitably
for the period ended 31 December 2004.
A senior executive from a similar
organisation was recruited and has been
successful in exploiting the many leads
generated by AdventisNMG Limited.
A series of projects were concluded
in 2004 and the outlook is positive
for 2005.
Outlook
Since our admission to AIM, the group
has enjoyed a higher profile within
the industry and national media.This
increased awareness greatly facilitates
our mergers and acquisitions activity.
All staff serving at the time of the
flotation participated in a share option
scheme and this has contributed to
excellent staff morale and retention.
Our strong cash flow and balance sheet
will assist and help to support further
strategic developments and we continue
to explore ways of growing the group
while ensuring our profit record is
maintained.
Adventis Group:AIM listing presentation
