 ADVENTIS GROUP PLC    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT 6
chief executive officer’s statement
The earnings per share for 2007, including acquisitions
was 4.33p, which compares with 3.76p for the previous
year, an increase of 15%.
Dividend
The Board is recommending an increased final dividend
of 0.48p per share, making a total for the year of 0.71p.
This is in line with our progressive dividend policy and
reflects our confidence in the business going forward,
especially our continued ability to translate revenue
growth into cash. Net cash as at 31 December 2007
was £3.74m, and the Group continues to be cash
generative and has a strong balance sheet.
Market Overview
The Group was reorganised into five business divisions 
in 2007 covering Health, Property, Financial, Media
and PR. With the addition of Adventis Digital, offering 
a full range of digital service to all Group clients, and
Adventis Integrated, offering direct marketing services, 
the Group now has seven divisions. This re-organisation 
has enabled us to exploit further synergies and economies 
leading to business growth and improved cost control.
Each of our business units enjoyed continued
profitability in 2007 and their management was
structured to exploit the considerable depth of skills
to the full. Retaining the services of key directors and
staff continues to be an issue in the marketing services
industry due to its highly labour intensive nature. 
Our policy of offering competitive packages with an
element of profit share has delivered a high quality 
and stable senior team. It is in this environment of
consolidation that I am pleased to report results that
reflect the hard work of all the team at Adventis.
Business Strategy
Our rapid growth has not been at the expense 
of either our cash position or operating margins. 
The Board intends to continue to pursue growth 
on a similar scale, but retain the same level of checks
and balances. We continue to assess other market
sectors with a view to acquiring operations that both
match our current performance and complement our
existing business offering. The drive for an increase 
in scale will be matched only by the focus on overall
business performance.
Acquisition
In February 2007, the Group announced the
acquisition of Leapfrog Medical Communications
Limited. This strategic purchase of one of the leading
medical education service providers was seen as 
a vital asset to our healthcare operation, as
pharmaceutical companies demand a fully 
integrated marketing offering.
It remains our intention to be extremely selective in
our M&A activity and the Board will only sanction
purchases that meet our strict internal criteria.
Operational Review
The following is a summary of activity by business
sector for the year ended 31 December 2007.
I am pleased to report a strong set of results for the year ended 31 December 2007, 
with record levels of billings and profits, both organically across all of our businesses and
through acquisitions. Group turnover of £47.1m was up 33% (2006: £35.5m); gross profit
of £11.7m was up 38% (2006: £8.5m), and pre-tax profit of £2.64m was up 47% (2006:
£1.80m). This represents the fourth successive year of significantly increased billings and
profits and the Group continues to benefit from healthy margins and strong cash flow. 
Charles Phillpot
Chief Executive Officer ADVENTIS GROUP PLC    CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT 7 Healthcare Sector
The Group now has a substantial presence in the
Healthcare sector through its two creative agencies,
Affiniti and Roundhouse. Together with Leapfrog
Medical Communications, a medical education
specialist, the three business units have been combined
to create Adventis Health, a specialist MedComms
agency, offering innovative and dynamic business
solutions to the pharmaceutical industry. With an
impressive list of blue chip clients, Adventis Health 
is in a leading position to explore new generation
concepts, such as digital media and interactive
customer generated programmes.
Adventis Health now occupies new premises at
Adventis House in Beaconsfield, with a satellite 
office in Hertfordshire.
Financial Services Sector
Adventis NMG grew significantly in 2007. A series 
of large scale projects were concluded for clients, such
as Foresters Friendly Society, Just Retirement, Cardif
Pinnacle, Equity Insurance Group and Reita. The
outlook for further such projects from similar clients
is positive. The integration of digital projects increased
and the range of services was enhanced following key
senior appointments in digital and creative roles.
Property Marketing Sector
We continued to serve a number of clients during the
year across the residential property spectrum, such as
Savills, Galliard Homes, Devington Homes and Grove
Manor Homes. We were also instructed by leading
registered social landlords, including Places for
People, Home Group, Genesis Housing Group 
and London & Quadrant.
The year also presented several opportunities in the
commercial property market. New business wins
included The Winston Group, Oakhurst Properties,
Ahli United Bank, Sunlight Property Finance,
Greenhills, Mckay Securities, Scottish Widows 
Investment, Target Follow, The Blackstone Group,
Protego Real Estate Investments, Davis Coffer Lyons,
EPF Group and Sackville Properties.
Media Planning and Buying Sector
Our three media planning and buying companies,
Premium Media, Adgenda Media and Adventis
Coltman, represent a significant force in the property
and financial sector. Their combined billings account
for around the UK’s 30th largest buying point. They
have full NPA (Newspapers Publishing Association)
and TV recognitions, enjoying favourable commercial
terms with media owners. The specialist media
services that we offer work very much in tandem with
our creative businesses. Business volumes continue to
grow at good margins for this industry. Account wins
during 2007 included Brit Insurance, Partnership
Assurance, SPA ETF’s, China Travel Service, St James
Homes, Weston Homes, Shepherds Bush Housing
Group and St Modwen Plc.
Outlook
The turbulence of the global financial markets has
permeated the economy overall, but the first quarter
results for 2008 indicate that the Group as a whole 
is ahead of target and ahead of last year.
Visibility for the year ahead is generally good and
overall we anticipate our clients marketing expenditure
continuing at a similar or greater level to the prior
year. Cost controls remain paramount and we will
continue to be vigilant especially as economic
conditions tighten.
We continue to raise our profile in our chosen 
market sectors and consider suitable acquisition
opportunities. I am confident that our growth 
and operating efficiency will continue in 2008.
Charles Phillpot
Chief Executive Officer
“The secret of joy in work is
contained in one word – excellence.
T o know how to do something 
well is to enjoy it.”
– PEARL S. BUCK
