 chairman’s statement
ADVENTIS GROUP PLC    CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 5 2007 proved to be another excellent year for Adventis with significant advances across 
key financial metrics – Turnover up 33%, profit before tax (“PBT”) up 47% and earnings 
per share (“EPS”) up 15%. This strong growth continues the Group’s record of improved
financial performance since its listing almost four years ago.
Particularly encouraging has been the profitable expansion
of our established businesses, built through acquisition
and organic growth between 2004 and 2006. This was
added to, very positively in 2007, by the acquisition of
Leapfrog Medical Communications Limited which has
greatly enhanced our total healthcare offering.
2007 saw increasing benefits across the Group with
the consolidation of leading parts of our business in
healthcare marketing, media planning and buying and
property marketing. This greater integration in our
main business sectors is delivering an improved service
to our clients and increasing financial benefits to the
Group. In 2007, this was supplemented by growth in
our financial services sector and our fast developing
digital marketing business, both of which promise
well for the future. Our financial PR business has also
continued to consolidate its position in the market.
A further very important development in this
consolidation process was the opening, in mid-2007,
of our new office in Beaconsfield, bringing together
our various healthcare businesses and re-branded as
Adventis Health.
The continuing strong progress made in 2007 affirms
our ongoing focus on growth in specific sectors of
marketing services where our expertise lies, while
seeking to reinforce our established business with
selective acquisitions. This will continue and our
strong balance sheet means Adventis is well placed 
to pursue such acquisition opportunities as they
present themselves.
In line with our progressive dividend policy, the Board 
is recommending a 5% increase in the final dividend
to 0.48p per share which will be put to the Annual
General Meeting for approval.
To have achieved the excellent results of 2007 would
not have been possible without the talented efforts
and commitment of almost 150 staff across the various 
Adventis companies. The Board offers its thanks and
appreciation to all of them.
2008 has started well, but the Board recognises the
more volatile and uncertain economic climate in which 
all businesses are operating. Nonetheless, we believe
Adventis’ operational strengths, financial stability and
high quality client service will enable it to continue to
progress strongly through this year and beyond.
On a personal note, I have been Chairman of Adventis
for approximately four years. I informed my Board
colleagues some time ago that I would be seeking to
retire as a director during the next year, to enable me
to pursue new interests. A process to appoint a new
Chairman is under way. A further announcement will
be made in due course.
Peter Mitchell
Chairman
Peter Mitchell
Chairman
