 4
Commitment 
to profitable growth
Chairman’s statement
Directors’ Report – Business Review
on the global climate. In response, many
governments are now committed to the
reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
This will require a multi-stranded approach,
encompassing fuel choice and efﬁciency
of energy use, as well as alternatives to the
burning of fossil fuels and the deployment
of technology innovations such as carbon
capture and storage.
Natural gas offers plentiful supplies,
proven and cost-effective technology,
and, importantly – as the cleanest of
the hydrocarbon fuels – 40% lower carbon
content than coal. As a result, there is
an opportunity for gas to displace more
carbon-intensive energy sources. Gas is
also capable of greater generation efﬁciency
than other fossil fuels. Although natural
gas is not the answer to climate change,
it can make an important contribution
towards a solution. 
As a global integrated gas business,
BG Group is playing a part in helping to
meet this defining challenge of our age,
coupled with a commitment to reduce
carbon emissions from its own operations.
This subject is addressed later in this
Report and also in more detail in the
Group’s separate Corporate Responsibility
Report 2007.
Global energy needs grew throughout 2007,
reﬂected in high oil prices and a continued
increase in the demand for gas. This was
particularly evident in the international
LNG market, which is becoming a signiﬁcant
contributor to energy supply security and
in which BG Group beneﬁts strongly from
its role as a leading gas company.
I am pleased to report that BG Group has
achieved another good set of results, with
a 5% increase in total operating proﬁt to
£3 248 million and an 11% increase in
earnings per share to 52.7 pence. We are once
again raising the full year dividend payment,
with a 30% increase to 9.36 pence per share.
Financial results alone can never tell more
than part of the story in a business such as
that of BG Group. I am, therefore, very
pleased to report that there were highly
encouraging developments in the Group’s
exploration prospects, including one of the
major industry successes of recent years in the
Tupi discovery, offshore Brazil. Production
volumes were broadly in line with 2006, even
though output was affected by a number of
factors, notably the disruption to UK
production caused by third-party damage to
the North Sea Central Area Transmission
System (CATS) pipeline. There was further
excellent performance by the Liqueﬁed
Natural Gas (LNG) business, where profits
increased by 48%.
Business context
Natural gas has become one of the world’s
most important commodities, central
to global long-term energy needs. Access
to secure gas supplies – whether imported
or indigenous – is seen as essential in most
mature economies, and plays an increasingly
important part in the development of many
emerging nations.
For a growing number of countries, the
importance of gas within the broader energy
mix is magniﬁed further by concern about
climate change. There is clear evidence that
mankind’s activities have a direct impact
I am pleased to report that
BG Group has achieved another
good set of results.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
www.bg-group.com
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:04  Page 4 5
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
2007 highlights
Whilst prices are likely to ﬂuctuate, it looks
probable that they will remain at levels
signiﬁcantly higher than we saw in the earlier
part of this decade. However, for BG Group,
as for many international oil and gas
companies, gains from commodity prices
in 2007 were partly offset by the continued
weakness of the US Dollar, the currency
in which a signiﬁcant proportion of the
Group’s revenues are denominated, and by
an increase in costs, far in excess of the rate
of inﬂation, for most of the supplies and
services upon which our industry depends.
Strategic framework
Whilst BG Group has its roots in the old
British Gas monolith, its emergence as an
international business is much more recent
and is largely a product of the last ten years,
following the demerger of British Gas into
BG Group and Centrica (which owns the
British Gas marketing business in the UK).
BG Group’s evolution over the last ten years
can be viewed as having three broad,
overlapping phases.
In the early part of the decade, the focus was
on progressing the portfolio of opportunities
that had been put in place in the late 1990s.
Important new opportunities were also
identiﬁed, notably the core of the Global LNG
business, which is now a major contributor to
the Group.
In recent years, as the Group has expanded, 
it has focused on the timely completion of its
project portfolio and on the development of a
new, and much wider, portfolio of exploration
and production opportunities.
With this second phase largely completed,
the Group’s plans for future growth are
underpinned by the growing strength of the
reserves and resources base and the quality
of the opportunity set it has assembled
in recent years. The Group has now come
full circle, and its focus is returning to
implementation priorities. That is not
to say that additional opportunities will
be overlooked. Far from it. It does mean,
however, that the Group has already secured
within its portfolio the opportunities and
projects that will meet its ambition to deliver
another decade of strong growth. 
prone to political and social instability, and 
the process by which those reserves are
found, produced and delivered to markets
is one that presents constant technological
and operational challenges. As BG Group
grows – and as established hydrocarbon
provinces in developed nations approach
maturity – the Group’s portfolio will continue
to include territories presenting a higher
degree of risk than that faced within the
more stable economies of Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD) nations.
These risks – which include the range of
government actions associated with resource
nationalism and the threat of disruption from
the actions of non-state groups – are faced by
all large international oil and gas companies.
However, in highlighting the risk factors to be
taken into account when assessing the
Group’s growth prospects, I should also
be clear on two points.
First, the Group has an effective balance
between its OECD and non-OECD investments,
and indeed several of its non-OECD
investments are in countries that have long
offered an investment environment just as
stable as that in Western Europe or North
America. The strategy and future prospects
section on page 10 provides further detail
of BG Group’s global growth opportunities.
Second, whilst the Group’s portfolio has
broadened, it has intensified its efforts
to manage the consequent challenges.
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and Total Results, see note 2, page 82.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Progress in 2007
There were a number of notable highlights
in the Group’s Exploration and Production
(E&P) activities over the year. These are
discussed more fully in the Chief Executive’s
statement. The main focal point was the
outcome of drilling in the Santos Basin,
offshore Brazil, by the consortium in which
BG Group has a 25% interest. Results there
indicate the prospect of a new world-class
ﬁeld, offering the potential for a major new
source of value for the Group in the longer
term. The signing of a new agreement on the
sale of gas from the Karachaganak facility in
Kazakhstan was also an important milestone
for the Group, providing for signiﬁcantly
increased gas sales once the proposed
Phase III expansion comes onstream.
The growth of the LNG business has
exceeded even the most optimistic
of expectations just ﬁve years ago. Whilst
the global LNG market remains relatively
immature, accounting for the delivery
of around 7% of gas volumes worldwide,
it is expanding rapidly – and BG Group is one
of the leading companies in its development.
Already the largest LNG importer by volume
in the USA, the Group has sufﬁcient ﬂexibility
of supply to meet the needs of both contract
customers and spot purchasers in European
and Asian markets.
Governance and Corporate Responsibility
Some of the world’s most signiﬁcant
hydrocarbon reserves are located in regions
Revenue and other operating income*
£8 330m 
2006 £7 270m up 15%
Total operating proﬁt*
£3 248m
2006 £3 103m  up 5%
Earnings per share*
52.7p
2006 47.4p up 11%
Dividend per share
9.36p 
2006 7.20p up 30%
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:21  Page 5 6
www.bg-group.com 
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Chairman’s statement continued
BG Group combines the highest standards
of corporate governance with a robust
assessment of operational risk and a rigorous
focus on security, safety and asset integrity.
In all aspects, the Group is guided by its
Business Principles, which set out core
values and behaviours.
In the Board’s view, a commitment to putting
the Business Principles into practice is the
best foundation for the creation of enduring
shareholder value. BG Group’s long-term
prospects depend on positive and sustainable
relationships with governments, partners,
neighbouring communities and employees.
Those relationships are underpinned by a
commitment to work responsibly at all times,
as well as by strategies that seek to align the
Group’s long-term objectives with the
aspirations of its key stakeholders. More
details on our approach to Corporate
Responsibility can be found on page 38.
I am pleased by the many examples of
Business Principles put into practice that are
entered for the Group’s annual Chairman’s
Awards. The Group is also increasingly
focused on the contribution its businesses
can make to sustainable social, economic and
environmental development in the countries
in which they operate. This will be a theme
to which I expect to return in future years.
Annual Report and Accounts online 
In common with many companies, BG Group is
actively seeking ways to reduce its use of paper
in regular communications. Last year, I wrote
to shareholders explaining that the Group
intended to take advantage of the provisions 
of the Companies Act 2006, which permits
companies to communicate with shareholders
electronically via their websites. Therefore, this
year, printed copies of this Report have only
been sent to new shareholders and to those
shareholders who speciﬁcally requested a
paper copy.
In line with the new electronic
communications regime, our Annual Report
and Accounts and Notice of Annual General
Meeting can now be obtained online 
by accessing the BG Group website 
(www.bg-group.com/ara), and these will
remain there throughout the year. Shareholders
may request a printed copy of the Report at
any time – see page 129 for further details.
With the beneﬁts of online navigation – and
with access to broadband now widespread –
I hope these changes will enable a better
understanding of the Group’s activities
and ambitions whilst minimising the
environmental and cost impact associated
with a high number of printed publications.
The Board 
We welcome Dr John Hood, the 
Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford,
who joined our Board in April 2007. The
Group’s Deputy Chief Executive, William
Friedrich, announced his retirement from 
the Board in December. He joined the Group
12 years ago, and was one of the architects 
of the two highly successful demergers that
followed in 1997 and 2000. He leaves with 
our thanks and best wishes for the future.
Finally, I would like to thank the people
of BG Group. As the industry becomes ever 
more complex and the pace of change
accelerates, the Group’s continued success 
is testament to their professionalism,
dedication and passion.
Sir Robert Wilson
Chairman
BG061_p04-06_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:28  Page 6
