 7
* For a reconciliation between Business Performance and T otal Results, see note 2, page 82.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
A strategy that delivers 
Chief Executive’s statement
grow throughout 2007 in line with the Group’s
integrated approach to capturing value along
the gas value chain. T otal operating proﬁt
increased by 7% to £247 million. In
Power Generation, total operating proﬁt
increased by 23% to £130 million, principally
due to the consolidation of new subsidiaries.
Strategy for success
I am sure that shareholders will by now 
be familiar with our core strategy – a focus 
on speciﬁc, high value markets and on
securing competitively priced gas to 
connect to those markets.
It is a strategy that BG Group, as an integrated
global gas company, is particularly well-placed
to deliver; we combine a deep understanding
of global gas markets with an excellent track
record in ﬁnding, developing and marketing
reserves. More importantly, as these results
show, it is a strategy designed to deliver value
to our shareholders over the long term.
The need for secure supply to meet the
growing energy needs of both emerging 
and established economies, together with
growing public debate about climate change
and development priorities, presents a
complex business context. The associated
challenges yield opportunities for companies
able to move swiftly and which are sufﬁciently
ﬂexible and willing to align their objectives
with those of governments, businesses and
communities. BG Group’s successful global
portfolio has been founded on this approach.
The Group now has business interests in a
total of 27 countries across ﬁve continents.
We have an established presence in a range
I am pleased to report that in 2007 BG Group
delivered another year of good operating
performance, together with very positive
progress in the development of the Group’s
long-term growth opportunities. Our
distinctive strategy has enabled us to 
capture increased value from our existing
assets whilst strengthening further the
foundations for our next decade of delivery.
Operating performance*
As the Chairman notes in his statement, 
BG Group has continued to meet its
commitment to deliver value to our
shareholders, with earnings of £1 783 million
(2006 £1 640 million).
In Exploration and Production (E&P), volumes
were 220.3 mmboe (2006 219.2 mmboe).
Overall production levels were maintained,
despite the impact of disposals in Canada
and Mauritania and the shutdown of the UK
North Sea Central Area Transmission System
(CATS) pipeline as a result of third-party
anchor damage. Operating proﬁt was
£2 387 million (2006 £2 457 million).
Liqueﬁed Natural Gas (LNG) performance 
was particularly strong in 2007. Global LNG
markets continue to be supply-constrained
amid accelerating demand from consumer
nations. The Group’s focus on the
development of a ﬂexible, global LNG
portfolio means we are well-placed to supply
markets across the world, and this was
reﬂected in 2007 in a 48% increase in total
operating proﬁt in our LNG business.
Our Transmission and Distribution (T&D)
businesses in India and Brazil continued to
Very positive progress in the
development of the Group’s
long-term growth opportunities.
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:29  Page 7 8 Chief Executive’s statement continued
www.bg-group.com
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Paciﬁc Basin markets, deploying our ﬂexible
global portfolio to good effect to meet strong
demand in the Asia Paciﬁc region. We
continue to expand our global ﬂeet, taking
delivery of four new LNG ships during the
year. We also began to deliver the ﬁrst
cargoes under a new long-term supply
contract with Equatorial Guinea LNG.
The Group sanctioned the Quintero
regasiﬁcation terminal in Chile, with the
initial start-up phase planned for 2009, and
the Dragon LNG import terminal in south
Wales advanced towards completion. In the
USA – where the Group imported 55% of all
LNG supplied in 2007 – our gas marketing
activity was boosted further by the addition
of new capacity rights in the Cypress pipeline,
connecting the Elba Island import facility to
downstream markets in south Georgia and
Florida. In 2007, the US regulatory authorities
also approved terminal expansion and new
pipeline proposals for Elba Island, which are
intended to extend the Group’s capacity 
for downstream marketing in the USA in
future years.
BG Group continues to derive value from
downstream gas demand driven by rapid
economic growth in leading non-OECD
nations. Our Transmission and Distribution
(T&D) subsidiaries showed a strong
performance through the year. In Brazil,
Comgas sales volumes increased by 5%; the
business now serves more than 500 000
customers. India’s largest private gas
company, Gujarat Gas, demonstrated solid
growth, and growth continued at Mahanagar
Gas, which serves India’s economic hub,
Mumbai. In our Power Generation segment,
we acquired an additional gas-fuelled power
plant in north-eastern USA – a region with 
a flexible and accessible power generation
market – in a further expansion of the
Group’s integrated US gas marketing strategy .
BG Group’s role as a leading gas company 
is dependent on the safe, swift and 
cost-effective application of innovative
responses to the many operating challenges
inherent in our industry.
That spirit of innovation is acknowledged 
in the Chief Executive’s Awards, our annual
the Santos Basin, offshore Brazil, found
indications of significant volumes of
hydrocarbons in place – potentially the
largest new source of oil and gas that the
world has seen for some years. The Tupi
structure is at an early stage of appraisal but
is now estimated to contain hydrocarbons 
in place of between 12 and 30 or more billion
barrels of oil equivalent. BG Group has good
exposure to this evolving frontier play, with
all four wells in the Santos Basin so far
proving successful, and further exploration
drilling still to come.
We drilled 20 wells in 2007, with 12 successes,
including wells in Bolivia, Brazil, Norway,
Thailand and the UK. The year saw extensive
seismic acquisition activity, with surveys in
Algeria, Brazil, Canada, China, Libya, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Trinidad and Tobago and the
UK. We also acquired more than 4 600 square
kilometres of new exploration acreage, with
additional licences in Canada, India, Norway,
Trinidad and Tobago and the UK.
In 2007, BG Group made important
advances in a number of key producing
assets. UK Continental Shelf (UKCS)
contribution to Group production volumes
was enhanced during the year with the
start-up of the Buzzard and West Franklin
fields. We made further good progress 
in our Karachaganak operations in
Kazakhstan, working closely with partners
and stakeholders to agree a new Gas Sales
Agreement that will facilitate the sanction
of the proposed Phase III expansion project.
Investment by BG Group and partners in the
development of the mid-Tapti ﬁeld, offshore
India, was another notable highlight; gas
production from the Panna/Mukta and 
Tapti fields has almost doubled over the 
last five years. 
In Trinidad and Tobago, the Group secured
agreement for a further 15 years of domestic
gas sales, beginning 2009, from the East
Coast Marine Area (ECMA).
Our LNG business performed very strongly
through the year, with managed volumes up
31%. The Group has been the Atlantic Basin
leader for some time; we are now also the
main supplier of Atlantic Basin LNG into
of core territories – Brazil, Egypt, India,
Kazakhstan, Trinidad and T obago, Tunisia, the
UK and the USA – and in 2007 made good
headway in developing new sources of value
from within our existing portfolio. There was
also positive progress through the year in the
development of more recent additions to our
portfolio, such as Nigeria, Norway and Oman.
Additionally, shortly after the period under
review, the Group announced an alliance
with Queensland Gas Company Limited in
Australia. The two companies will co-operate
in the exploration and development of coal
seam gas from the Surat Basin, Australia,
and will also jointly pursue domestic market
opportunities and the construction of a new
LNG export facility.
Taken together, we believe that BG Group’s
robust current production base, combined
with our strong total reserves and resources
position and positive exploration prospects,
gives us the inherent potential to support
a compound annual growth rate in
production volumes of between 6% and 
8%, right out to 2020.
Energy prices have risen in response to
increasing global demand. This, in turn, has
stimulated cost inﬂation as operators seek
to acquire the raw commodities and plant
required to capture market opportunities.
The Group is well-positioned to face these
challenges; we have a long-life portfolio of
base assets, where incremental development
is at a lower cost, and we maintain a rigorous
capital discipline in our broad portfolio of
opportunities. We screen all projects against
a wide range of price, cost and production
scenarios to ensure that our investments
generate shareholder value. We will continue
to seek innovative ways to manage
procurement, construction and operating
costs in the current inﬂationary environment.
Our aim throughout is to maintain today’s
position as a high value, low cost operator.
Portfolio developments
2007 was an important year in the
development of our exploration portfolio,
with notable drilling successes and the
acquisition of new acreage. During the year,
appraisal drilling in the Tupi discovery in 
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  17/3/08  18:29  Page 8 ceremony highlighting the best of the
technological achievements sustaining
BG Group’s ongoing success, which in 
2007 saw some of the strongest entries 
in recent years.
Corporate Responsibility
As the Chairman explains in his statement,
we believe that Corporate Responsibility (CR)
is the bedrock of sustainable value creation.
Our activities are guided by our Business
Principles, which deﬁne our commitment 
to responsible conduct and which set out 
our responsibilities to our people, to the
societies within which we work and to the
environment. Our inclusion in the FTSE4Good
index and Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes
and our “Sustainable Investing Leader” 
rating in the Goldman Sachs GS Sustain focus
list are testament to that commitment.
There is more detail on our CR performance
on page 38.
Safe and responsible working practices are
integral to all we do at BG Group. We expect
all of our people, myself included, to take
personal accountability for ensuring not 
only their own safety but also the safety of
others. We all have a continuous obligation 
to intervene to identify unsafe practices and
promote safe behaviour. This obligation is
communicated clearly and regularly through
employee engagement and training across
the global business.
The Group completed its detailed
examination of the ﬁndings of the Baker
Panel established in the aftermath of
BP’s 2005 Texas City reﬁnery accident, and
has tested the key conclusions against our
own asset integrity systems. Those systems,
already well-developed over a number of
years, were reﬁned further in 2007.
The Group’s Lost Time Injury Frequency 
(LTIF) of 0.26 per million hours worked in 2007
was our lowest-ever ﬁgure, reﬂecting the
continuous focus on safety across the Group.
For comparison, in 1998 – the point when
BG Group ﬁrst embarked upon a refreshed
approach to safety management – the LTIF
was 6.7. None of us at BG Group forgets 
that behind the statistics lies the reality of
injured colleagues and bereaved families. 
It is therefore with great regret that I report
the deaths of two contractors during 2007:
one in a road accident in Kazakhstan and the
second working on the construction of one 
of the Group’s new LNG ships in South Korea.
In early 2008, shortly after the end of the
reporting period, a contractor working on
behalf of our Gujarat Gas subsidiary in India
died following an incident during street
works. All incidents have been examined 
in detail to assess lessons to be learned.
Group Executive Committee
In 2007, we announced changes to the
management structure of the global business
to expand our capacity for long-term strategic
activity at the most senior levels of the
organisation. This included the introduction 
of new Senior Vice President roles reporting
into the Group Executive Committee (GEC)
and plans to increase the number of senior
positions both in the professional functions 
at Group level and in our country businesses.
In parallel with these developments, we also
reorganised the Group’s activities within 
three geographic regions in place of ﬁve. 
T aken together, we believe these changes 
will enhance further the Group’s ability to
deliver on our growth ambitions. Page 14 of
the Directors’ Report sets out further details 
of the new regional Executive responsibilities. 
We also welcomed Graham Vinter to the 
GEC as our new General Counsel, and Keith
Hubber as our new Company Secretary. 
As the Chairman notes, our Deputy Chief
Executive William Friedrich announced 
his retirement. I would like to express my
personal thanks to Bill for his tremendous
contribution to the Group over the years. 
I would also like to thank Rick Waddell,
Executive Vice President and Managing
Director for South America, who stood 
down from the GEC shortly after the 
period under review.
Looking forward
In my view, 2007 demonstrated once again
that our strategy and approach are robust
and can be expected to provide the Group
with a source of competitive advantage in 
the future business environment. We beneﬁt
from an established and diversiﬁed long-life
asset base, combined with a broad spread of
future opportunities, offering the prospect of
value creation through the next decade. This
is underpinned by the skills, experience and
focus on delivery of all of my colleagues at
BG Group. I thank them for their passion,
energy and commitment to value creation;
they are central to the Group’s success. 
Frank Chapman
Chief Executive
9
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
BUSINESS REVIEW
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
BG061_p07-09_vAW.qxd:Layout 1  15/3/08  08:30  Page 9
