 I am pleased to report that the Group has delivered a
strong improvement in profitability and cash flow over
the last 12 months. These results build upon the
improvements reported at the interim and provide a
reassuring platform from which the Group will continue
to move forward.
Results
Adjusted profit before tax (before goodwill amortisation
and exceptional administrative costs) was £1.45m (2005:
£249,000). As anticipated at the interim, the result was
weighted in the second half year, with £948,000 being
generated in the second half year compared to £504,000
in the first half year.
Turnover grew by 2.8% to £38.0m (2005: £36.9m). As
anticipated, pricing actions taken on certain contracts and
a change in mix towards higher margin vehicle
replacement services led to an increase in gross margins
to 24.8% (2005: 21.0%) in the current year.
Our cash position improved considerably during the year
and particularly during the second half year. Cash
generated from operations of £4.8m was particularly
strong. Our debtor days average 75 days (2005: 88 days)
which compares favourably to the sector. This is a
testament to the relationship we have with the large
insurance companies and the strategic focus we have
placed on this activity during the year.
Our net debt reduced by £2.6m during the year, after
absorbing £1.2m of capital expenditure on IT and
infra-structure development. Our commitment to
maintaining and developing IT and infra-structure ensure
the Group has the capacity needed to maintain growth
moving into 2007.
Strategy
Our core insurance market is particularly active with a
significant increase in the number of companies exploring
new avenues to increase the service offered to their ‘not at
fault’ policyholders. The timing of when the market would
move in this direction has been difficult to predict, but
there now appears to be real momentum. We believe that
we are well positioned to work closely with the insurance
market in developing and delivering these solutions.
It is pleasing to report that two new relationships came on
stream during the year and we now act for 7 of the top
20 UK motor insurers. We will also shortly commence a
pilot with another top 5 insurer. Our business is now
de-risked such that we are not dependent on any single,
large client.
Chairman’s Statement
6
“I am pleased to
report that the Group
has delivered a
strong improvement
in profitability and
cash flow over the
last 12 months.
These results build
upon the
improvements
reported at the
interim and provide a
reassuring platform
from which the
Group will continue
to move forward.” I am pleased to report that we will once again be
partnered by Avis UK in the provision of vehicle
requirements. This arrangement secures our rental rates
for a two year period and provides further opportunity to
explore new business development areas including the
Group’s first steps into the ‘Fleet Repair Market’.
The broader control of our supply chain is critical to
managing service quality and costs. We have recently
taken repairs in house with our own repair network and
engineering function. We have also developed a dedicated
legal resource to be branded Ai Law, which will become
fully operational in October 2006.
Our business principle of delivering excellent service and
cost containment is now widely recognised in the
insurance sector and we will be broadening our range of
offerings in the coming year. The recent launch of our
broker market product was well received and we have
already secured a pilot with a leading broker intermediary
to service an element of their work.
Management and Board Changes
In our annual report last year I referred to the substantial
strengthening of the main Board through a number of
appointments. One year on I am happy to say these
appointments have proved successful and I have pleasure
in confirming that, with effect from July 2006, David
Sandhu has been confirmed as Chief Executive Officer
reflecting the energy and commitment he has brought us.
We have continued to build up the experience and depth
of the executive management of Ai, a matter upon which
David reports further in the Chief Executive Officer’s
Report. We are always looking for the best talent to take
Ai forward and, at top level, I am satisfied that we have a
first class team in place to take the Group forward.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to propose a final dividend of
0.25p per share for the year to 30 June 2006 to be paid
on 4 January 2007. Dividends paid in the year totalled
£276,000 (2005: £153,000).
It is the Board’s policy to have a progressive dividend and
broadly to increase dividends in line with profits and
future prospects and will be weighted towards the second
half year.
Future Prospects
The level of new business activity within the insurance
market is very encouraging. Ai is actively engaged with the
market in developing innovative solutions which assist the
insurance sector in providing excellent service to
customers whilst at the same time containing the level of
cost inflation in the market.
I am pleased with the progress made during the year and
am confident that we can consolidate on this and then
take advantage of the new opportunities as they
crystallise. It is a testament to our people and the
commitment shown by them across all levels of the
business that this progress has been achieved and I pass
on my sincere thanks on behalf of the Directors.
7
Charles A Good,
Chairman
6 October 2006
