 Introduction 
I am delighted to present my first report as Chief Executive
Officer, since taking over from Adrian Palmer in July 2005.
Ai has delivered a PBT of £913,000 for the year (2005:
loss of £468,000) and made significant advances in cash
management, increasing the strength and flexibility of the
balance sheet.
Ai now provides services to 7 of the top 20 insurers.
As our product offering develops, the actual number of
‘solutions’ Ai provides directly to the insurance market
during the year has grown, both in terms of the number of
insurers and total solutions being managed, to a total of
15. This progress significantly reduces the risk associated
with the lumpy nature of contract wins at Ai.
Our core solutions provide high levels of service to the
customer yet continue to respect the need to cooperate
with insurers to protect against claims inflation. Whilst my
team and I remain committed to the primary strategy of
working with insurers, the precise timing in terms of
contract wins remains challenging. As a result we have
broadened our distribution strategy moving forward and
have launched initiatives in the areas of brokers, repairers,
fleets and manufacturers/dealerships which I expect to be
earnings enhancing during the year. 
A Changing Market Place
Ai’s core strategy has focused on delivering end to end
claims management solutions for the motor insurance
market, principally to insurance companies, who ultimately
pay the cost of claims. Our services are available for all
parties to an accident – fault and not at fault customers. 
The motor insurance market is experiencing significant
challenges to profitability with claims cost increases,
primarily third party claims, causing rates to harden
significantly in both the primary and re-insurance markets.
Claims cost containment remains a high priority for
insurers and Ai’s strategy is to offer protection to insurers
to manage claims coming against them when their
policyholder is at fault and offer market leading services to
their not at fault customers. 
We are slowly seeing leading insurers move forward more
actively in both these areas and commence pilots with Ai.
We believe these trends are unlikely to reverse and that Ai
is well positioned as an advisor and partner of choice to
the insurance market, gained through a reputation for
customer service, technical excellence in claims
management and an ethos to control claims cost inflation.
We recognise that a ‘one size fits all service’ is not a
response to a complex and changing market and that our
solutions will evolve as our partners experiment with a
range of possibilities.
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
8
“We believe that our
responsible approach
to the containment of
claims costs mean
our claims are paid
more quickly.” Business and Commercial Development
Ai continues to provide two primary products to insurers.
Our ‘non fault’ product provides a gap fill in terms of the
service the policyholder receives from the insurer in that it
satisfies specifically their mobility need and our
intervention product ‘Pr£dicta,’ that approaches the
innocent third party to satisfy all their needs following the
road traffic accident.
I am pleased to report that we have seen a net growth of
2 in the number of insurers procuring services with Ai as
well as broadening the range of products delivered to our
partners. This is a continued trend and has resulted in Ai
not being dependent on any one account. 
Ai now serves 7 of the top 20 insurers in the UK. We
have recently been selected by a top 5 insurer to partner
them from October 2006 in a series of pilots across
our portfolio.
Ai has seen a strong growth (21%) in the number of cases
managed under our intervention service Pr£dicta. This
product saves on average 35% of the cost of a claim if it
had been presented in the market by an accident
management company and 10% against insurer’s own
managed cost. This product ensures that hire and repair
periods are minimised and third party personal injury
requirements are dealt with responsibly.
Whilst the volume of insurer non fault referrals reduced by
15%, due to the exit of the contract previously highlighted
at the interim, the number of insurers using our scheme
increased to 5 out of the top 20 insurers.
We will be developing our product range and distribution
footprint further during the coming year, utilising Ai’s
ethical brand, customer service, technical excellence and
efficient infra-structure. We have developed a new product
suite for the insurance broker market and are about to
commence a pilot with significant potential. We will build
on our brand strength - that a claim managed by Ai is
recognised in the insurance market as one embracing cost
containment and will be settled expeditiously, which
benefits both claimant and insurer.
The commencement of a new strategic partnership with
Avis UK will make them Ai’s main rental provider and they
will work closely with us in developing new propositions. By
utilising Avis’ scale we are able to compete in
procurement and service terms with any provider in the
market place, without the need to tie up capital to finance
a fleet of vehicles. 
Ai has also recently established an in house engineering
function with its own network of repairers. ‘Ai Repair
Solutions’ will enable more active management of repair
costs and down time – key cost drivers. I wish to thank
Fleet Accident Repair Group Limited (FARG) and their
shareholders for their loyal support over the past 5 years.
This change simply removes an administration link in the
chain allowing greater control of the customer experience.
Ai Repair Solutions continues to draw primarily upon the
same network of repairers that has serviced Ai and its
insurer’s clients over the last 5 years.
We have also established ‘Ai Law’ with a solicitor partner
to provide a full range of legal services, on an operational
and financial basis similar to owning our own law firm. Ai
Law will also assist us to guarantee ethical management
of personal injury cases, whilst actively attending to the
needs of claimants in need of some form of rehabilitation
following an accident.
With the broadening and growth in our offering, it is vital
to continue to invest in the development of our systems
competence and the platform upon which the operation
sits. It was reported previously that significant investment
has been made in developing our new Claims And
Recovery System (C.A.R.S) which has a go live date in
early 2007. Couple this with the investment made in
System Union’s Sun System for financial control and Ai is
ready to handle substantial volume growth in the future.
People
We strengthened our Group Board team during the year
with Peter Harrison joining us as Group Finance Director
in September 2005, having previously held a number of
senior financial roles at Aviva plc and RSA plc. Peter’s
knowledge of the sector and commercial financial
expertise has been a significant addition to the Group
Board. His leadership both in terms of the finance
function and in more robust budgeting and forecasting
procedures has been instrumental in our better
performance in this regard.
We have also strengthened the broader management
team during the year, with Chris Shaw joining as Head of
Claims in April 2006 and Jimmy Monteith joining as
T echnical Services Director in June 2006 with responsibility
for establishing Ai’s own repair network and managing the
operational team. Chris previously worked for Ai up to
December 2004 and rejoined from Accident Exchange
Group PLC. Jimmy joined Ai from FARG where he was
Managing Director.
Individual accident victims expect high levels of attentive
service following an accident. Recruitment, development and
retention of a skilled workforce is critical to the success of the
9 10
business. Ai invests in every employee when they join the
business through a comprehensive induction programme.
We have also established ‘academies’ to facilitate the
development of critical skills. The Claims Academy enables
operational handlers to be proficient in technical and
customer service skills; our training suite provides a
simulated environment for staff to be trained for 3 weeks
before becoming fully operational. The T alent Academy has
been established to identify and develop the high potential
managers and leaders of the future and provide them with
MBA type development in the real workplace, under the
mentoring of the Executive Directors. I believe this will
develop a highly skilled and motivated pool of talent to
support the Directors in driving the business forward.
Operational Performance
We have continued to deliver excellent and responsive
customer service to our partners and their customers. We
continually monitor our performance and agree KPI’s with
our partners. It is very pleasing to see the positive
comments from policyholders and partners and a minimal
level of complaints. As an FSA regulated business we fully
adopt the principle of ‘Treating Customers Fairly.’ We have
a 95% overall customer satisfaction rating from our own
customer satisfaction surveys.
Average Pr£dicta hire durations decreased by 12% as Ai
actively manage vehicle downtime, which provides an
obvious benefit both to our insurer and claimants. Our
Pr£dicta replacement vehicle solutions have increased by
48% over the year. The total number of repairs carried out
by Ai increased by 40% through our approved repair
network. The volume of PI cases referred to Ai’s panel of
solicitors increased by 43%.
We believe that our responsible approach to the
containment of claims costs means our claims are paid
more quickly. Our major quoted competitors have a level
of debtor days, which we calculate at 206 days based on
average debtor days for the year. Our debtor days average
75 days. We will continue to look for further improvements
in operational and financial efficiency in the coming year,
whilst at the same time investing in the development of
the business. We will continue to strengthen our team to
support our development and will benefit from the new
claims system coming on line in early 2007.
Outlook
Good progress has been made during the year in
delivering a strong development in financial and
operational performance. With the broadening of our
distribution strategy, continued investment in the very best
in the market in terms of people and a greater awareness
within the insurance market of the real factors causing
claims inflation I look forward with confidence to
delivering a successful 2007. I expect that profits will be
weighted towards the second half of the 2006/07 financial
year reflecting the development of commercial relations
and seasonality in the business.
I would like to personally thank my Co Directors for their
commitment and dedication, and the support and
challenge from all the management and staff of Ai. We
are a passionate team with real ambition and I very much
look forward to leading the business in this exciting time.
David B Sandhu,
Chief Executive Officer
6 October 2006
Chief Executive Officer’s Report (continued)
“With the broadening of our distribution strategy, continued
investment in the very best in the market in terms of people and
a greater awareness within the insurance market of the real
factors causing claims inflation I look forward with confidence
to delivering a successful 2007.” 11
“Ai now provides 
services to seven of the 
top 20 insurers.”
“The total number of 
repairs carried out by 
Ai increased by 40%...”
