 KEN HANNA
CHAIRMAN
This year the Board has focused on  
supporting our strategy and ensuring  
we have the right governance framework 
in place to successfully execute that strategy
Chairman’s introduction
OVERVIEW
2016 has been another challenging year for Aggreko. We have had 
to deal with continuing low oil prices, commodity weaknesses 
and re-pricing of several legacy contracts. All of these factors have 
caused downward pressure on the Group’s ﬁnancial performance. 
It takes time to adjust to these pressures, but the Board and I are 
in agreement that our strategic priorities of customer, technology, 
efﬁciency and people will position Aggreko for a strong ﬁnancial 
performance in the future.
HOW GOVERNANCE SUPPORTS OUR 
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Delivering on our strategic priorities is crucial to our success. 
The Board has focused on supporting our strategy by ensuring 
we have the right governance framework in place to monitor the 
execution of our strategic priorities. During the year, the Board 
received regular updates from the Programme Management 
Ofﬁcer on each strategic priority and took time out from the usual 
Board calendar to spend a day focusing on strategy, identifying 
key actions to ensure we deliver on those priorities. We also agreed 
on a new set of strategic KPIs, designed to measure success 
against each of our priorities of customer, technology, efﬁciency 
and people. You can read more about our new KPIs on page 34.
THE BOARD IS PLEASED WITH THE INITIATIVES 
LAUNCHED IN 2016 THAT ARE DELIVERING 
AGAINST OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES.
READ MORE ABOUT THESE INITIATIVES  
PAGES 27 TO 31
BOARD CHANGES
In March 2017, we were delighted to announce the appointments 
of Barbara Jeremiah and Miles Roberts as Non-executive Directors.
Barbara is currently a Non-executive Director of two North 
American based companies, Russel Metals and Allegheny 
Technologies, having recently retired as Chairwoman of Boart 
Longyear, a US based company in the minerals drilling sector. 
Barbara brings extensive international non-executive experience 
largely in the US and Australia together with an executive career 
in the mining, exploration and energy industries. Barbara will 
join the Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Miles brings substantial international business experience 
as a Chief Executive and Finance Director. Miles is currently 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international 
packaging group with operations in nearly 40 countries. 
Prior to this, Miles was Group Chief Executive of McBride plc, 
having served as the Group Finance Director before that. 
An engineer by background and also a chartered accountant, 
Miles will join the Audit and Nomination Committees.
In April 2016, after almost nine years of service, Robert MacLeod 
stepped down from the Board. During his time with Aggreko, 
Robert performed a vital role as Audit Committee Chairman, 
overseeing our external audit tender process and making a 
valuable contribution to the Board as Non-executive Director. 
I would like to thank Robert for his service and contribution 
to Aggreko and wish him well for the future.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code
Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards 
of corporate governance; it is the way we do business and 
it is at the core of everything we do. Summarised on the 
page opposite and explained in detail throughout this 
report, we have described the key elements which we believe 
are essential for good corporate governance. We follow the 
UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”), as published 
by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2014 and 
are pleased to report that Aggreko has complied in full with 
all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year. We are 
also in compliance with the 2016 version of the Code, which 
will apply to Aggreko’s ﬁnancial year ending December 2017.
70 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE FORMATION OF A GROUP RISK COMMITTEE
This year the Board agreed to establish a Group Risk Committee 
under the chairmanship of our Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and made 
up of the Executive Committee members. Although the Board 
retains overall responsibility for our risk framework, the Group Risk 
Committee performs an important role, focusing on embedding 
the risk framework within the management teams and ensuring 
key controls are in place for each of our principal risks. I am 
pleased with the work of the Group Risk Committee to date; 
you can read more about their role and interaction with the 
Board and Audit Committee during 2016 on page 82.
THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE PERFORMS 
AN IMPORTANT ROLE IN EMBEDDING OWNERSHIP 
OF THE RISKS WITH OUR MANAGERS.
BOARD EVALUATION
I personally conducted the Board evaluation this year, through 
individual meetings with each Board Member, the Rental 
Solutions President, Managing Director for Power Solutions and 
Company Secretary. We focused on the issues raised last year 
by the externally facilitated review in relation to competitors, 
market landscape, risk, succession and talent management. 
We also looked at Board meeting effectiveness. The review 
concluded that we have made good progress against the 
actions in relation to competitors, market landscape and risk, 
though further work was required around succession and talent 
management. We anticipate that the work to refresh our culture 
will make an impact following the launch of our refreshed culture 
in Q2 2017 and we agreed some further actions which we will 
report on next year. The review also found that Board meetings 
were effective and well run, with good relationships between 
members and open debate. We did identify some administrative 
areas for efﬁciency improvements and agreed actions for 2017. 
You can read more about the Board evaluation on page 81.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to recommend a ﬁnal dividend for the 
year ended 31 December 2016 of 17.74 pence (2015: 17.74 pence). 
When added to the interim dividend of 9.38 pence this results 
in a full year dividend of 27.12 pence (2015: 27.12 pence).
LOOKING AHEAD TO 2017
The Board will continue to closely monitor progress against our 
strategic priorities of customer, technology, efﬁciency and people, 
ensuring that they are supported by appropriate governance 
structures. These priorities are an investment in our future and will 
protect Aggreko’s position as the leading global provider of power, 
heating and cooling that is efﬁcient, modular and mobile. 
Finally, I would like to thank our employees for the unwavering 
commitment and hard work during a challenging year.
LEADERSHIP
Your Board rigorously challenges strategy, performance, 
responsibility and accountability to ensure that every 
decision we make is of the highest quality. 
 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR LEADERSHIP  
PAGE 75
ACCOUNTABILITY
All of our decisions are discussed within the context 
of the risks involved. Effective risk management 
is central to achieving our strategic objectives. 
 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR ACCOUNTABILITY  
PAGE 82
EFFECTIVENESS
Your Board continuously evaluates the balance of 
skills, experience, knowledge and independence of 
the Directors. We ensure that all new Directors receive 
a tailored induction programme and we scrutinise 
our performance in an annual effectiveness review. 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR EFFECTIVENESS 
PAGE 80
REMUNERATION
Having a formal and transparent procedure for 
developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors 
is crucial. Our remuneration policy aims to attract, 
retain and motivate by linking reward to performance. 
 
READ MORE ABOUT OUR REMUNERATION  
PAGE 94
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS
Maintaining strong relationships with our Shareholders, 
both private and institutional, is crucial to achieving 
our aims. We hold events throughout the year 
to maintain an open dialogue with our investors. 
 
READ MORE ABOUT SHAREHOLDERS’ RELATIONS 
PAGE 84
71 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Our Board
KEN HANNA
Chairman
Appointed:
Non-executive Director in October 2010 and 
Chairman in April 2012.
Experience
Ken has international experience, bringing 
ﬁnancial and leadership expertise to Aggreko. 
He possesses knowledge of many different 
business sectors and is an experienced senior 
executive and leader, promoting robust debate 
and a culture of openness in the Boardroom.
Ken is also currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc 
and Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE Charity. 
Until 2009, Ken spent ﬁve years as Chief Financial 
Ofﬁcer of Cadbury Plc. He has also held 
positions as Operating Partner for Compass 
Partners, Group Chief Executive at Dalgety Plc, 
Group Finance Director of United Distillers Plc 
and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe 
Plc. He is also a fellow of the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants.
CHRIS WESTON
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed:
January 2015.
Experience
Chris has experience at a senior level in the 
energy industry, proven leadership skills in a 
large international business and has consistently 
succeeded in driving performance and growth 
in his career. 
Prior to his appointment as Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer in January 2015, Chris was Managing 
Director, International Downstream at 
Centrica plc, where he was the Executive Director 
responsible for the Group’s largest division. 
In this role Chris was operationally responsible 
for both British Gas in the UK and Direct Energy 
in the USA. He joined Centrica in 2001 after 
a successful career in the telecoms industry, 
working for both Cable & Wireless and One.Tel. 
Before that, Chris served in the Royal Artillery. 
He has a BSc in Applied Science, as well as an 
MBA and PhD from Imperial College London. 
Chris was also appointed as a Non-executive 
Director of the Royal Navy in January 2017.
CAROLE CRAN
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointed:
June 2014.
Experience
Carole has corporate ﬁnance and accounting 
experience acquired over a number of years in 
senior ﬁnancial roles with considerable exposure 
to emerging markets. Carole was appointed to 
the Board as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer on 1 June 2014. 
Having joined Aggreko in 2004, her previous 
roles include Group Financial Controller and 
Director of Finance. A key member of the senior 
management team, Carole has worked to align 
ﬁnancial strategies with the strategic direction 
of the business. Carole was also appointed 
as a Non-executive Director of Halma plc on 
1 January 2016.
Prior to joining Aggreko, Carole spent seven years 
at BAE Systems, in a range of senior ﬁnancial 
positions, including four years in Australia. 
Carole is also a chartered accountant, having 
trained at KPMG whilst working in their audit 
divisions in the UK and Australia.
RUSSELL KING
Senior Independent Director
Appointed:
Non-executive Director in February 2009 and  
Senior Independent Director in April 2014.
Experience
Russell brings international experience, 
acquired across a number of sectors including 
mining and chemicals, together with strong 
experience in strategy. 
An experienced Non-executive Director, 
Russell currently sits on the boards of 
Spectris Plc as Senior Independent Director 
and Remuneration Committee Chairman and 
Interserve plc as Senior Independent Director. 
He is also Chairman of Hummingbird Resources 
plc. Prior to this, Russell spent eight years at 
Anglo American Plc, latterly as Chief Strategy 
Ofﬁcer and spent 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
UWE KRUEGER
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
February 2015. 
Experience
Uwe brings expertise of the engineering, services 
and renewable energy sectors. He is a physicist 
with a PhD and an honorary professorship 
from the University of Frankfurt and an honorary 
PhD from Heriot-Watt University. Most of his 
career has been spent leading engineering 
and consulting organisations. 
Uwe is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
WS Atkins plc. He also sits on the boards of 
SUSI Partners AG and Ontex S.A. and lectures 
at the University of Frankfurt on renewable 
energy. Before joining WS Atkins plc, Uwe was 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Oerlikon, Senior Advisor 
at Texas Paciﬁc Group, President of Cleantech 
Switzerland, and held various senior leadership 
positions at Hochtief AG.
DAME NICOLA BREWER
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
February 2016. 
Experience
Nicola Brewer brings extensive geo-political 
and diplomatic experience to Aggreko, 
having worked in many of the developing 
regions in which we operate.
Nicola is currently Vice Provost at University 
College London, responsible for international 
strategy. She is a trustee of Prince Harry’s 
southern African charity, Sentebale. In her 
previous diplomatic career, she worked in 
Mexico, India and France, was a member of 
the Foreign and Commonwealth Ofﬁce Board 
from 2004 to 2007, and was High Commissioner 
to South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland from 
2009 to 2013. As a member of the board of the 
Department for International Development, 
she supervised all UK bilateral aid programmes 
in Africa, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East 
and Latin America.
72 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE PETER KENNERLEY
Company Secretary
Appointed:
October 2008.
Peter is our Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary.
Further details appear on page 74.
Other Directors who served during 2016:
ROBERT MACLEOD
Non-executive Director and  
Chairman of the Audit Committee 
until 28 April 2016.
KEY TO COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP
Audit Remuneration Nomination Ethics
DIANA LAYFIELD
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
May 2012. 
Experience
Diana brings extensive international experience 
and detailed understanding of how to operate  
successfully across emerging markets, particularly 
in Africa and Asia. She also brings experience in 
sales, technology and strategy.
Diana is Vice President, Next Billion Users at 
Google Inc, developing products and services 
for users in emerging markets, and in Fintech. 
Before joining Google, she was Chief Executive, 
Africa Region for Standard Chartered Plc 
and held a number of senior leadership roles 
over 11 years at Standard Chartered. Prior to 
Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer of Finexia Ltd, a technology ﬁrm, and a 
consultant with McKinsey & Co, an international 
strategy consulting ﬁrm. Diana has a BA 
from the University of Oxford and a Master’s 
degree in International Economics and Public 
Administration from Harvard University.
IAN MARCHANT
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
November 2013. 
Experience
Ian brings knowledge of the domestic and 
international energy markets, along with 
a substantial understanding of associated 
strategic, ﬁnancial and regulatory issues. 
Until his retirement in June 2013, Ian 
spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most recently 
as Chief Executive, and prior to that as 
Finance Director.
Ian is an experienced Non-executive Director, 
currently serving as Chairman of John Wood 
Group Plc and former Chairman of Inﬁnis Energy 
Plc. He is also Chairman of Maggies Cancer 
Charity, a Member of the Prince’s Council of the 
Duchy of Cornwall, Honorary President of RZSS, 
Chairman of the advisory board of the Centre 
of Energy Policy at Strathclyde University 
and former Chairman of Scotland’s 2020 
Climate Group.
BOARD ATTENDANCE  
IN 2016
Name of Director
Board  
meetings
%  
attended 
AB
Ken Hanna 66 100%
Chris Weston 66 100%
Carole Cran 66 100%
Nicola Brewer 66 100%
Russell King 66 100%
Uwe Krueger 66 100%
Diana Layﬁeld 66 100%
Robert MacLeod
1
22 100%
Ian Marchant 66 100%
A –   maximum number of meetings Director 
could have attended.
B –   actual number of meetings Director attended.
1   Robert MacLeod retired from the Board on 
28 April 2016.
BARBARA JEREMIAH
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
March 2017. 
Experience
Barbara brings extensive international 
Non-executive experience largely in the USA 
and Australia together with an executive career 
in the mining, exploration and energy industries.
An experienced Non-executive Director, Barbara 
currently sits on the Board of Russel Metals and 
Allegheny Technologies having recently retired 
as Chairwoman of Boart Longyear, a US based 
company in the minerals drilling sector. Until her 
retirement in 2009, Barbara spent over 30 years 
in a number of roles in Alcoa Inc. (now demerged 
into Alcoa and Arconic Inc.), the world leader 
in the production of aluminium and related 
products. Her roles in Alcoa included Assistant 
General Counsel, VP Corporate Development 
and Executive VP in charge of strategy and 
M&A. Barbara is an American citizen with a 
BA in political science and is a qualiﬁed lawyer.
MILES ROBERTS
Non-executive Director
Appointed:
March 2017. 
Experience
Miles brings extensive international business 
experience both as a Chief Executive and 
Finance Director.
Miles is currently Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of 
DS Smith Plc, a FTSE international packaging 
group with operations in nearly 40 countries. 
Prior to joining DS Smith Plc in 2010, Miles was 
Group Chief Executive of McBride plc having 
previously been Group Finance Director. 
Prior to this, Miles worked for Costain Group 
plc and Vivendi UK. He also has non-executive 
experience, having served on the boards of 
Poundland Group plc as Senior Independent 
Director and Care UK plc as a Non-executive 
Director. Miles has a degree in Engineering 
and is also a chartered accountant.
73 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance The Executive Committee operates under the direction and authority 
of the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer; it is responsible for supporting him in all aspects 
of his role. Each member has been assigned individual responsibility for the 
principal risks and uncertainties outlined in the Strategic Report. They also 
sponsor and have overall accountability for delivering against the initiatives 
designed to underpin our strategic priorities of customer, technology, 
efﬁciency and people to enhance our existing competitive advantages.
Our Executive Committee
1 5
9
2
3
4
6
8
7
1
 CHRIS WESTON
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Appointed: January 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 2 years.
Full biography appears on 
page 72.
2
 CAROLE CRAN
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer
Appointed: June 2014. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 12 years.
Full biography appears on 
page 72.
3
 NICOLAS FOURNIER
Managing Director, 
Power Solutions
Appointed: November 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 1 year. 
Nicolas has responsibility 
for the leadership of the 
Power Solutions business and 
overseeing the delivery of our 
strategic priorities (Customer, 
Efﬁciency and Technology) 
within Power Solutions.
4
 TOM ARMSTRONG
Group Chief Information Ofﬁcer 
& Programme Director
Appointed: August 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 15 years. 
Tom has responsibility for 
the implementation of our 
strategic priorities (Customer, 
Technology, Efﬁciency and 
People) programme designed 
to enhance our competitive 
advantage and deliver sustainable 
growth. Tom is also responsible 
for the Programme Management 
Ofﬁce (PMO).
5
 DAN IBBETSON
Group Business 
Development Director
Appointed: October 2016.
Tenure with Aggreko: 8 years.
Dan has responsibility for 
global business development, 
M&A coordination and Group 
strategy. This new position on the 
Executive Committee will provide 
a critical focus on securing growth 
and maximising opportunities 
into the future.
6
 BRUCE POOL
President,  
Rental Solutions
Appointed: December 2015.
Tenure with Aggreko: 18 years. 
Bruce has responsibility for the 
leadership of the Rental Solutions 
business and Group Sales & 
Marketing. He is also responsible 
for overseeing the delivery of our 
strategic priorities in relation to 
Customer and Efﬁciency within 
Rental Solutions.
7
 ANNA FILIPOPOULOS
Group Human 
Resources Director
Appointed: April 2016.
Tenure with Aggreko: 
less than 1 year.
Anna has responsibility for 
human resources and internal 
communications, focusing 
on talent and leadership 
development, employee 
engagement and culture. 
She is responsible for overseeing 
the delivery of the strategic 
priority in relation to People.
8
 VOLKER SCHULTE
Group Manufacturing and 
Technology Director
Appointed: August 2015. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 2 years. 
Volker is responsible for building 
on our current engineering 
capability in Dumbarton and 
focusing on enhancing our 
product strategy, product 
development and product 
management with the objective 
of delivering market leading 
products to our customers.
9
 PETER KENNERLEY
Group Legal Director & 
Company Secretary
Appointed: October 2008. 
Tenure with Aggreko: 8 years. 
Peter has overall responsibility 
for the management of legal and  
ethical risk and for supporting 
the Board in setting and 
maintaining standards 
of corporate governance.
74 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Leadership
DIVERSITY METRICS AT 31 DECEMBER 2016
How we divide up our responsibilities
Chairman Responsible for leading the Board, its effectiveness and governance. Setting the agenda 
to take full account of the issues and concerns of the Directors and ensuring the links 
between the Shareholders, Board and management are strong. 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Responsible for the day-to-day leadership, management and control of the Group, 
for recommending the Group strategy to the Board and ensuring that the strategy 
and decisions of the Board are implemented via the Executive Committee. 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer Responsible for the day-to-day management of the ﬁnancial risk of the Group and 
providing general support to the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer including the operational 
performance of the business and chairing the Group Risk Committee.
Senior Independent Director Provides a sounding board for the Chairman, acts as an intermediary for the other 
Directors when necessary and is available to meet with Shareholders. 
Independent Non-executive Directors Constructively challenge the Executive Directors and monitor the delivery of 
the Group strategy within the risk and control environment set by the Board.
Company Secretary Supports the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and is available to all Directors 
for advice and support. Informs the Board and Committees on governance matters 
and responsible for development of corporate governance policies.
Nationality diversity of permanent employees*
%
European (inc. Russia) 28%
North American 20%
Latin American 19%
Asian 17%
African 10%
Australian 5%
Middle Eastern 1%
*   There are 106 nationalities across Aggreko’s 
permanent employees.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
Tenure of Non-executive Directors
No. %
0-3 years 2 40%
3-6 years 2 40%
6-9 years 1 20%
1
2
3
Gender of permanent employees
No. %
Male 5,207 84%
Female 974 16%
1
2
No. %
Male 5 62%
Female 3 38%
Gender of Board
1
2
Gender of senior management*
No. %
Male 56 81%
Female 13 19%
*   We have selected the composition of our 
Senior Leadership Team as we believe 
this to be a better reﬂection of our senior 
management structure than the composition 
of our subsidiary companies, which is made up 
of 96 males and 11 females. The Senior Leadership 
Team is made up of direct reports of the 
Executive Committee and other key roles.
1
2
Executive/Independent Non-executive composition of Board
No. %
Executive 2 29%
Non-executive* 5 71%
*   As required by Code provision B.1.2, this 
calculation excludes the Chairman when 
looking at the Independent Non-executive 
composition of the Board.
1
2
Sector experience of Board
Customer
88%
Energy Operational
75% 63%
Finance
50%
Geo-politics/diplomacy Technology
25% 13%
75 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Leadership continued 
ROLE OF THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the Group. 
It sets our strategy and oversees its implementation, ensuring 
decisions made reﬂect our risk appetite. It provides leadership and 
direction and has responsibility for corporate governance and the 
overall ﬁnancial performance of the Group. The Board is supported 
in this role by its principal committees, outlined in the table below. 
To retain control of key decisions, the Board has a schedule 
of matters reserved for the Board that only it can approve, 
with other matters, responsibilities and authorities delegated 
to its Committees.
AUDIT 
COMMITTEE
Monitors and reviews 
the integrity of Aggreko’s 
ﬁnancial statements, 
the relationship with the 
external auditor, internal 
auditor and oversight of our 
systems for internal control 
and risk management.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 86
REMUNERATION 
COMMITTEE
Determines the 
remuneration for the 
Chairman, Executive 
Directors and the Executive 
Committee members 
and oversees Aggreko’s 
overall remuneration 
policy, strategy 
and implementation.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 94
NOMINATION 
COMMITTEE
Monitors and reviews 
the composition and 
balance of the Board 
and its Committees to 
ensure Aggreko has the 
right structure, skills and 
experience in place for 
the effective management 
of the Group.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 92
ETHICS 
COMMITTEE
Monitors compliance and 
oversees the effectiveness 
of our ethical policies and 
procedures to ensure 
that Aggreko conducts 
its business with integrity 
and honesty and in 
accordance with the law.
COMMITTEE REPORT
PAGE 90
CEO
DISCLOSURE 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
compliance with 
Market Abuse 
Regulation and 
supports the Board 
in approving the 
ﬁnal form of any 
announcement or 
statement relating 
to the performance 
of the Group.
FINANCE 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
funding and 
treasury decisions.
ALLOTMENT 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for 
decisions regarding 
the allotment 
of shares.
GROUP RISK 
COMMITTEE
Responsible for the 
implementation of 
our risk framework, 
and processes for risk 
reporting, including 
reporting the Group’s 
register of principal 
risks to the Board.
EXECUTIVE 
COMMITTEE
Operates under 
the direction and 
authority of the CEO. 
It is responsible for 
supporting the CEO 
in all aspects of his 
role. The Executive 
Committee also 
sponsors and has 
overall accountability 
for delivering against 
the initiatives designed 
to underpin the new 
business priorities  
and enhance our 
existing competitive  
advantages.
KEY TO COMMITTEES
Non-Board Board
Board
READ OUR SCHEDULE OF MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD:
IR.AGGREKO.COM/INVESTORS
76 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE BOARD MEETINGS IN 2016
Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 Apr 16 May 16 Jun 16 Jul 16 Aug 16 Sep 16 Oct 16 Nov 16 Dec 16
BOARD MEETINGS
In 2016, the Board held six scheduled meetings and one 
ad hoc meeting. The ad hoc meeting was held by telephone 
in September to ensure the Board was kept up to speed 
on material developments. At each scheduled meeting 
the Board received reports from:
 • The CEO on strategic, operational and business developments 
and health and safety;
 • The CFO on the performance of the business, capital structure, 
ﬂeet, budget, treasury and investor relations; and
 • Each of the Board Committees on matters discussed 
at their meetings. 
The Board also received reports on our ethics compliance 
framework and new technology and product updates.
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: 
Topic Activity/Discussion Actions arising Progress
Strategy Monitor progress 
against our 
strategic priorities.
One day strategy 
review session.
Received regular 
updates from 
the Programme 
Management Ofﬁce 
on progress against 
the strategic priorities 
and initiatives 
underpinning them.
 
Review KPIs.
Identiﬁed and agreed areas of focus within Rental Solutions, 
Power Solutions, distributed energy and technology to assist in 
delivering against our priorities. Added people to our strategic priorities.
Customer: approved and launched a new CRM system and online 
web presence.
Technology: approved customer ﬁeld trials of next generation 
gas and HFO products. Developing prospects for our solar-diesel 
hybrid product.
Efﬁciency: approved and rolled out new site performance 
management tool, allowing us to move towards condition 
based maintenance in 2017. Generated procurement based 
savings of c£20 million.
New set of strategic KPIs approved to monitor progress against 
our strategic priorities.
Monitor 
opportunities 
for acquisitions.
Refreshed and agreed 
our M&A strategy.
Reviewed a number 
of opportunities 
in 2016.
Bolt-on acquisition of DRYCO, a specialist in moisture control, drying, 
heating and cooling applications within the shipping, manufacturing, 
food processing, construction and industrial painting industries.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BUSINESS PRIORITIES PAGE 27 AND OUR KPIS PAGE 34
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control
Review the Group 
risk register, risk 
appetite and 
effectiveness of the 
risk management 
process to ensure 
we have a robust 
risk management 
framework which 
delivers an effective 
and efﬁcient 
approach to risk 
management and 
positively contributes 
to effective decision 
making.
Following the 
detailed review 
in 2015, continue 
to monitor best 
practice and reﬁne 
the risk management 
framework 
as appropriate. 
Approved the establishment of a Group Risk Committee, chaired 
by our CFO and made up of the Executive Committee members 
to assist with oversight of our risk management process and to 
further embed risk management within our management teams.
Ensured that our principal risks are aligned to key controls and 
form part of the assurance and internal audit programme.
Reviewed our principal risk register in June and December.
77 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Leadership continued
In addition to the regular items, the key areas of focus were: 
Topic Activity/Discussion Actions arising Progress
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control  
continued
Monitoring legacy 
contracts.
Regular updates 
from Power Solutions 
Managing Director.
Detailed analysis undertaken on the macroeconomic background, 
power market and power strategy in countries such as Argentina, 
with signiﬁcant legacy contracts. Close monitoring of tenders 
and successes with modelling of different scenarios for our 
current contracts.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR RISKS
PAGE 52
Leadership  
and  
employees
Succession planning. Review succession 
plans in place for 
Executive Committee, 
Senior Leadership Team 
and direct reports.
Executive off-site meeting held with focus on team development. 
New succession plans approved.
Employee 
engagement 
and culture.
Review culture and 
agree plan to refresh. 
Review all 
employee share 
save arrangements.
Reviewed Executive Committee work on employee purpose, values 
and behaviours. Launch of culture refresh planned for early 2017.
 
Approved all employee share save offer.
Ongoing training 
and development 
for Board members.
Encourage interaction 
between Board 
members and 
employees across 
the Group.
Induction for  
Nicola Brewer.
Board visit to Houston head ofﬁce and Pearland in June 2016.
Board workshop at Manufacturing and Technology site in Dumbarton 
in April 2016 on the design and launch plan for the new medium 
speed HFO engine.
Induction complete.
READ MORE ABOUT 
NICOLA BREWER’S INDUCTION
PAGE 80
READ MORE ABOUT OUR  
VISIT TO NORTH AMERICA
PAGE 79
Governance Discussed format 
for Board evaluation 
in 2016.
Agreed format for 
Chairman’s review with 
one to one sessions with 
each Board member.
Completed implementation of the action points identiﬁed as part of 
the 2015 review.
Agreed 2017 action plan for the Board.
Impact of new 
Market Abuse 
Regulation.
Reviewed existing 
policies and processes 
to assess ability to 
comply with the 
new regulation.
Adopted new policies and procedures for monitoring and handling 
of inside information. Provided training to Directors and employees 
affected by the new regulation.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR BOARD EVALUATION
PAGE 81
Shareholders Strong engagement 
with stakeholders 
and investors.
Actively support 
engagement 
opportunities 
and understand 
investor views.
Reviewed the outcome of the investor audit, which gathered 
detailed feedback from our Shareholders. 
Technology “teach in” at Manufacturing and Technology facility in 
Dumbarton in September 2016. This gave investors and analysts an 
overview of our technology agenda and current progress against it.
Sought views from our main Shareholders on a new remuneration 
policy. The new policy will be put to Shareholders for approval at 
the AGM in 2017.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT PROGRAMME
PAGE 84
78 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE In June 2016, the Board met in Houston, the head ofﬁce location 
for our Rental Solutions business. During their visit, the Directors 
received presentations from the Rental Solutions President 
and management team in North America and a detailed update 
on progress against our strategic initiatives in the Rental Solutions 
business. There were also presentations from the management 
team for temperature control and Aggreko Process Services; 
an engineering team within temperature control whose purpose 
is to resolve process bottlenecks associated with temperature 
issues. The Board also hosted a dinner with the Rental Solutions 
management team to give the Board an opportunity to engage 
with the presenters informally.
The Board also visited our Pearland facility for a “management 
walk” to learn about safety at the site. They also met with some 
of the local employees based there, to hear their views about 
working for Aggreko and answer questions.
Aggreko’s Pearland facility is a 13 acre site, housing our largest 
service centre in the North American business, as well as 
national temperature control repair and support centre, Aggreko 
Process Services and a training facility. Pearland has the largest 
temperature control testing capacity in the Americas with four 
test stands totalling 2,500 tons of capacity and the service centre 
generates the largest revenue in the North America business. 
There are over 100 employees working at this site and it was one 
of Aggreko’s ﬁrst locations in North America. Pearland’s business 
sectors include Petrochemical Reﬁneries, Building Services 
and Construction and Events hosted in or around Houston.
As part of Nicola Brewer’s induction process, Nicola also visited 
our ofﬁces at New Iberia with Ken Hanna. During discussion 
groups with employees, Ken explained his role as Chairman and 
answered questions, whilst Nicola gave her thoughts on joining 
Aggreko. The visit included a tour of the major repair facility and 
an introduction to some of the new products being developed 
for the North American business, including the ﬁrst Tier 4 diesel 
oil-free air compressor. Ken and Nicola also visited the local service 
centre, discussed some of the challenges facing this business 
with employees and toured the Rental Centre, learning about the 
initiatives underway at the Rental Centre to improve administrative 
efﬁciencies. Finally they visited the Remote Operations Centre.
KEY PRIORITIES FOR 2017
 • Continue to closely monitor the work of the Programme 
Management Ofﬁce to ensure the initiatives underpinning 
the strategic priorities deliver the expected beneﬁts within 
the agreed timescales.
 • Monitor the roll out of the re-branded culture around the 
organisation to ensure all employees are aware of the launch 
and understand their role in embedding the culture into 
the organisation.
 • Receive regular updates from the Group Risk Committee 
to ensure this Committee provides the intended level of 
support on risk management and integrated assurance.
 • Plan a board visit to Southern Africa to provide key insights into 
the Power Solutions business in Africa for the Board, engage 
with local employees and visit a local site. 
 • Implement the actions identiﬁed in the 2016 board evaluation.
 • Ensure thorough induction programmes for Barbara Jeremiah 
and Miles Roberts.
Governance in action: 
Board meeting in North America, 
June 2016
Site visits give the Board key insights 
into the business; at least one meeting 
each year is held at a location outside 
London or Glasgow to give the Directors 
an opportunity to review operations 
and meet local employees.
Aggreko’s Pearland facility  
in Texas, North America
79 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Effectiveness
GOVERNANCE IN ACTION: 
NICOLA BREWER’S INDUCTION
Our induction programme aims to give new Non-executive 
Directors a thorough grounding in Aggreko’s business, 
on a Group and business unit basis, areas of signiﬁcant risk 
and a clear understanding of their role and responsibilities.
Key elements include meeting the Executive Directors, senior 
management in the Group and senior management within the 
business units and spending time with the Company Secretary 
to ensure an understanding of directors’ duties, conﬂicts of 
interest, corporate governance, Board procedures, Group 
policies and the use of our electronic Board packs.
Visiting our main sites for brieﬁngs on Group strategy and the 
business units forms an important part of the induction process. 
During Nicola Brewer’s induction to Aggreko, Nicola visited 
a number of locations around the Group.
Induction, development  
and support
We make sure that all new Directors 
receive a full, formal and tailored induction 
on joining the Board. We also plan our 
Board calendar to ensure that Directors 
are able to visit different business locations 
and are briefed on a wide range of topics 
throughout the year. These topics range 
from those with particular relevance 
for our business, such as world energy 
demand, to more general matters such 
as developments in corporate governance. 
We recognise that our Directors have 
a diverse range of experience, and 
so we encourage them to attend 
external seminars and brieﬁngs 
that will assist them individually.
DAME NICOLA BREWER
Non-executive Director
My induction programme was extremely 
comprehensive. It helped me to learn 
about the different aspects of the business 
and absorb its culture. This enabled me 
to start contributing to Board discussions 
more quickly and conﬁdently.
China – Shanghai  
Nicola met with the North 
Asia management team, 
receiving an overview of their 
business, visiting the Shanghai 
Depot and meeting with an 
equipment supplier. 
Scotland – Dumbarton 
As part of a Board visit to the 
Manufacturing and Technology 
site, Nicola attended a 
workshop on the design 
and launch plan for the new 
medium speed HFO engine.
UAE – Dubai 
Nicola met with the Middle 
East management team for 
an overview of the business 
and went on a site tour of the 
Jebel Ali ofﬁce and depot.
North America – Houston, 
Pearland and New Iberia 
See page 79 for information 
on the Board’s visit to Houston 
and Pearland and Nicola’s visit 
to New Iberia.
80 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Board evaluation framework
Step one
Brieﬁng and preparation • The Chairman presented a paper to the Board outlining 
the proposed evaluation process for 2016.
 • Key areas of focus for the 2016 
evaluation included:
 – Our response to the three 
main topics raised last year 
(strategic issues, risk and 
control, succession and 
talent management).
 – Board and meeting  
effectiveness.
Step two
One to one discussions  • The Chairman conducted one to one discussions with each 
member of the Board, the Company Secretary, Managing 
Director for Power Solutions and President for Rental Solutions. 
Both the Managing Director for Power Solutions and President 
for Rental Solutions regularly attend Board meetings.
Step three
Presentation  
of ﬁndings  
and discussion
 • The Chairman prepared a draft discussion document on the 
key areas discussed.
 • The Board discussed the ﬁndings 
as a group, noted progress made 
against the actions for 2016 and 
agreed actions for 2017.
Step four
Insights, conclusions 
and actions for 2017
Good progress has been made against the three main topics 
raised last year.
Strategic issues (including competitiveness and 
market landscape)
 • We have reviewed the market landscape, our competitors and 
implications for our strategy.
 • We received regular updates on technology in 2016, including 
updates on the progress of HFO and solar diesel, with further 
items scheduled for 2017.
 • New strategic KPIs were approved in 2016, further information 
can be found on page 34.
Risk and control
 • Group Risk Committee established.
 • Risk register reviewed in June and December.
Succession and talent management
 • Although some progress had been made and the 
appointment of a new Group HR Director had made a good 
impact, actions remained ongoing in relation to succession and 
talent management and further actions were agreed for 2017.
 • Successful Board visits to Dumbarton, Houston and 
Pearland in 2016.
 • The evaluation also examined the 
current workings of the Board to 
identify potential improvements. 
Board and Meeting Effectiveness
 • Well run meetings allowed 
time for discussion of the 
issues, debate was respectful 
and the Board was balanced. 
Good relationship between 
Board members and the 
attendance at meetings of the 
Power Solutions Managing 
Director and Rental Solutions 
President was valuable.
 • Some constructive points 
were raised in relation to 
Board meeting administration, 
actions were agreed to improve 
efﬁciency for 2017.
THIS YEAR’S BOARD EVALUATION EXERCISE
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, we undertake 
a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of our own performance 
and that of our Committees and individual Directors each year.
We operate a three-year cycle of Chairman’s review, 
Company Secretary’s review and externally facilitated review. 
Aggreko’s last externally facilitated evaluation took place in 2015, 
so this year the review was carried out by the Chairman.
81 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Accountability
Following an extensive update in 2015, the Board has focused 
on embedding the improved risk management process into 
the Group. This year the Board has spent some time challenging 
the alignment of key controls to our principal risks and ensuring 
the effectiveness of those controls by reviewing them as part of 
our assurance and internal audit programme. For example, the 
Internal Audit team has undertaken audit reviews around the 
change management relating to our strategic priorities, providing 
challenge over the effectiveness of controls and identifying 
opportunities for improvement.
The objective of our risk framework is to provide the Board, 
Audit Committee and Executive Committee with a useful 
management tool to capture, assess and proactively manage 
the risks we face. Our risk management process also ensures that 
we take account of our business model and strategy to ensure 
alignment with our risk appetite, framework and controls. In turn, 
this enables us to fully comply with the UK Corporate Governance 
Code requirement for a viability statement.
GROUP RISK COMMITTEE: 
To ensure sufﬁcient oversight of our risk management process and 
to further embed it within our management teams, we formed 
the Group Risk Committee in 2016. This Committee is chaired by 
our CFO, Carole Cran, and is attended by our Executive Committee 
members. The Group Risk Committee met twice in 2016.
The Group Risk Committee’s primary role is the implementation 
of our risk framework. This includes review of the Group Register 
of Principal Risks, with challenge given to the prioritisation and 
management of individual risks as appropriate. In future, the 
Group Risk Committee will also oversee efforts to align assurance 
activity across the Group. Following each meeting, reports are 
made to the Audit Committee and Board. The reports to the 
Audit Committee focus on the effectiveness of the control 
environment for our risks. The reports to the Board focus on 
agreeing the register of principal risks and any changes to the risk 
management framework, including proposals for amendments 
to the risk appetite.
RISK APPETITE:
Our approach to risk appetite has been developed in line with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. By articulating the type and 
level of risk we are willing to take in order to achieve our strategic 
objectives, we aim to support consistent, risk-informed decision 
making across the Group. We have deﬁned our risk appetite for 
each of the categories of risk as shown on page 53 of this report. 
Our risk appetite has been incorporated into our risk management 
framework and the Group Risk Committee and Board monitor 
whether we are operating within our appetite through review 
of a series of agreed metrics and a review of the register of 
principal risks.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK: 
A full review of the Group register of principal risks was completed 
during June and July 2016 for our interim reporting. This exercise 
was undertaken again at the year end. Details of the process the 
Board has in place to identify, evaluate and manage principal 
risks can be found in the risk section of the Strategic Report. 
This process has been in place for the period under review and 
up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts. 
In addition, we monitor the effectiveness of the risk management 
framework and internal control systems on an ongoing basis. 
No signiﬁcant failings or weaknesses have been identiﬁed. 
Further detail on the process for monitoring the effectiveness 
of our risk management framework and control environment 
can be found in the Audit Committee Report.
Risk management and 
internal control
The Board is responsible for the Group’s 
risk management framework and internal 
control systems. The Group operates 
deﬁned internal control systems across 
ﬁnance, operations and compliance, with 
key controls identiﬁed and assessed across 
the year. Group Risk, Group Internal Audit 
and internal control teams operate within 
the business to monitor and assess the 
effective operation of these controls. 
The Board, via the Audit Committee 
and our new Group Risk Committee, 
monitors the internal control systems on 
an ongoing basis. The process is designed 
to manage rather than eliminate risk, 
and can only provide reasonable and 
not absolute assurance against material 
misstatement or loss.
82 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK – ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Management & Monitoring
Group Risk Committee
(makes recommendations  
to the Audit Committee and Board)
Oversight
Audit Committee
(makes recommendations  
to the Board)
 
Ultimate  
Responsibility
Board
Ownership
Business Units, Senior Leadership Team  
and Group Functions
(supported by Group Risk)
 • Ultimate responsibility for risk management and internal control
 • Approves the risk management framework
 • Approves the risk appetite and monitors compliance
 • Approves the Group register of principal risks
 • Approves the viability statement
 • Responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Group’s 
systems for internal control and risk management
 • Reviews and challenges the risk management framework
 • Reviews the effectiveness of the control environment
 •  Reviews the effectiveness of and approves the approach 
for the viability statement
 • Responsible for implementing and embedding risk management  
and internal controls
 • Deﬁnes the risk management process to be followed by the  
business (including risk appetite) 
 • Reviews and challenges the Group register of principal risks ensuring 
controls identiﬁed are operating and tracks closure of items
 • Facilitates risk process, collating risk registers and consolidating 
the Group risk register 
 • Aligns assurance activity
 • Responsible for identiﬁcation, prioritisation, assessment 
and monitoring of risk which may arise in the business
 • Risks and associated controls are owned and operated  
by management
 • Risk registers are maintained and form the basis of the  
Group risk register
READ ABOUT OUR RISKS AND VIABILITY STATEMENT 
PAGE 52
GOVERNANCE IN ACTION:  
FAIR, BALANCED AND UNDERSTANDABLE REPORTING
The Board recognises its responsibility to present a fair, 
balanced and understandable assessment of Aggreko in 
all of our reporting obligations. This responsibility covers the 
Annual Report and extends to the interim report and other 
regulatory announcements.
The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, to 
be fair, balanced and understandable, providing the information 
necessary for Shareholders to assess the Company’s position 
and performance, business model and strategy. In arriving at 
this position, the Board asked the Audit Committee to review 
and conﬁrm the process we have in place to support this 
assessment. The Audit Committee conﬁrmed that we have 
a robust approach in place to support the fair, balanced and 
understandable assessment.
For the 2016 Annual Report, this process included:
 • Comprehensive management and statutory accounts 
processes, with written conﬁrmations provided by the 
regional senior management teams on the “health” 
of the ﬁnancial control environment;
 • Detailed reviews of the Annual Report and Accounts 
undertaken at different levels of the Group and by the senior 
management team that aim to ensure consistency and 
overall balance;
 • A veriﬁcation process, involving our internal audit team, 
dealing with the factual content of the Annual Report;
 • A key accounting judgements paper covering contract and 
tax provisions, along with a summary of any changes in our 
accounting policies for 2016; and
 • Both the Audit Committee and Board received an early draft 
of the Annual Report to enable time for review and comment.
“ The Directors consider this Annual Report, taken as a whole, 
to be fair, balanced and understandable.”
READ MORE IN OUR AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT  
PAGE 86
83 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance Relations with Shareholders
WHAT OUR SHAREHOLDERS HAVE ASKED US ABOUT THIS YEAR
Power Solutions Utility pipeline and prospects
Legacy contracts and key extensions in Power Solutions Utility
Exposure to Oil & Gas and emerging markets
Strategic priorities
Performance outlook
Organisational changes and morale
Cash ﬂow, capital expenditure, debt and dividend cover 
Shareholder returns
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016
MAY
Bank of America 
Merrill Lynch Business 
Services Conference
Conference calls and 
meetings with investors 
following the ﬁrst quarter 
trading update
JUNE
Technology 
Capital Markets Day 
in Dumbarton
APRIL
Roadshows on the 
east coast of the 
USA & Canada
AGM
MARCH
Roadshows in the UK 
following the preliminary 
results announcement
Citi Business 
Services Conference
84 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GOVERNANCE Understanding what analysts and investors think about us, 
and in turn, helping these audiences understand our business, 
is a key part of driving our business forward and we actively 
seek dialogue with the market. We do so via investor roadshows, 
attending investor conferences, hosting capital markets 
days and our regular reporting. The Board receives regular 
updates on the views of Shareholders through brieﬁngs and 
reports from Investor Relations, the Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, 
Chief Financial Ofﬁcer and the Company brokers. In addition, 
our Senior Independent Director, Russell King, is available to 
meet Shareholders if they wish to raise any issues separately. 
Results and other news releases such as contract wins and 
changes to our strategy are published via the London Stock 
Exchange’s Regulatory News Service (RNS). Any announcement 
published via RNS is also available on the Group’s Investor 
Relations website at ir.aggreko.com/investors; a subscription 
service is available for interested parties to receive these updates 
by email. We continually seek to enhance our communications 
and alongside the publication of this report we have refreshed 
our corporate and investor relations websites.
The Group has an ofﬁce in London, where the Investor 
Relations team is based, and maintains ongoing relations 
with analysts and investors through telephone calls and 
meetings. Throughout 2016, we have continued to maintain 
open and transparent communication with analysts and 
investors through meetings, presentations, conferences and 
site visits. In June 2016, we hosted a capital markets day on 
our technology strategic priority, at our Manufacturing and 
Technology facility in Dumbarton, Scotland.
During the year, the Investor Relations team and senior 
management conducted almost 460 meetings, met or spoke 
to over 400 institutions and participated in seven conferences. 
Meetings are conducted by at least one of the Chairman, 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer or a member 
of the Investor Relations team and these meetings occurred 
in a number of key locations around the world; during the 
year we met investors in the UK, USA, Canada and France. 
In future we aim to include broader management in investor 
meetings throughout the year, to allow investors to gain 
a broader perspective of management and the business.
During the year, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
held a number of consultations with Shareholders around 
the development of the new remuneration policy, Long Term 
Incentive Plans and general performance of the business. 
Read more about our new remuneration policy and Long-Term 
Incentive Plans on page 94.
We also enjoy meeting and engaging in discussion with our private 
Shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM). 
The 2017 AGM will be held in Glasgow on Thursday, 27 April 2017.
READ MORE ABOUT OUR STRATEGY PAGE 27
KEY TO COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES
Interim results Full year results Trading update Investor meetings AGM Site visit
SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT CALENDAR 2016
DECEMBER
Credit Suisse  
European  
Business Services  
and Transport  
Conference
AUGUST
Interim year 
ﬁnancial results
Conference calls 
and meetings with 
investors following 
the interim results
Roadshows on the 
east coast of the  
USA & Canada 
following the  
interim results
OCTOBER
Roadshow on the 
west coast  
of the USA
NOVEMBER
Conference calls 
and meetings with 
investors following 
the third quarter 
trading update
SEPTEMBER
Roadshows in the 
UK and France 
following the 
interim results
Rental Solutions 
investor visit 
with Barclays
85 AGGREKO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Business strategy Overview Performance review Accounts & other information Governance
