  5
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chairman’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 
 
A record period 
 
Today’s results are evidence of an excellent and transformative period for accesso. We have made great strides in implementing our 
growth strategy and it is gratifying to see our newly enlarged team working so cohesively together, delivering on the opportunities we 
see. 
 
The group has delivered a strong financial performance, with good organic growth in our queuing business supplemented by new 
growth made possible by the acquisition of accesso, LLC. in December 2012. Pleasingly, our performance continues to be driven by both 
new standalone mandates across each of our business areas as well as deeper penetration, cross selling and upselling of the full offering 
within new and existing sites. 
 
Over the operating season a number of parks across our estate experienced record-breaking days in respect of both queuing and 
ticketing solution uptake. Our participative revenue models ensured that this resulted in good revenue growth across our increased 
geographic footprint.   
 
We have also delivered on a number of important operational and strategic milestones, with joint wins for our ticketing and queuing 
products, as well as extending and deepening relationships with a number of the very largest operators in our space, such as Palace 
Entertainments. Such wins send a clear signal to other operators about the increasingly strategic nature and value of our solutions. 
 
Our team 
 
During the period, the accesso product development and operational teams have continued to work hard and increasingly closely 
together to generate today’s strong results.  Their work, and that of all our staff, has contributed to this excellent performance.  I thank 
all of our colleagues for their energy, enthusiasm and innovative spirit.  It is a real asset to our group which I and the entire Board are 
thankful for. 
 
Building for the future 
 
On 5 December 2012, we announced the transformational acquisition of accesso, LLC.: a leading US ticketing and eCommerce company. 
This was a significant milestone for the business, evidenced by contract momentum and subsequent joint wins for our queuing and 
ticketing products.  
 
On 5 December 2013, we announced the acquisition of Siriusware, Inc., which marked another important day for our team. The 
acquisition strengthens our existing product offering, takes us into new markets, new geographies and extends our reach to new 
verticals particularly the snow sports and cultural sector. Bringing the Siriusware and accesso teams together aligns two highly 
complementary product offerings, further establishing the opportunity to build a trusted, proven and supplier of scale across multiple 
Leisure markets. I look forward to reporting our progress in this endeavour in the coming months. 
 
We are already evidencing sales progress and, post-period-end, have announced that Holiday World & Splashin’ Safari will be installing 
accesso’s leading eCommerce platform making it the first attraction to integrate accesso technology with Siriusware Salespoint Solution, 
already providing comprehensive point of sale system for both the theme park and water park. 
  
Adding these two strong businesses to our world-class technology platform propels us even further ahead with our goal of being the 
leading and most innovative supplier of technology solutions to the leisure and attractions industry.  In total we serve eight of the 
world’s top theme park groups and, as we continue to grow our reputation, we believe this will help us to further deepen our 
relationships with more and more attraction owners and operators globally. 
 
Looking ahead 
 
With our expanded technology offering, new parks yet to install and operate, new markets from which to derive additional 
opportunities, our dedicated and expanded team will have much to focus on in 2014.  I am confident they will maintain that focus in a 
period which promises greater opportunity for the enlarged group.   I am also confident that we can continue to generate premium 
growth from our operations as the goal of improving guest experiences in order to increase revenue becomes ever more strategic to the 
major players in the industry we serve. 
 
 
John Weston  
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
