  6
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chief executive officer’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 
 
Financial Review 
 
As our Chairman has stated, this is an excellent set of results for accesso.   
 
The group delivered growth of 51.6% in adjusted operating profit for the 12 months unaudited pro-forma period ended 3 November 
2013 (‘2013 pro-forma period’) against our 12 months ended 4 November 2012 and performed comfortably ahead of market 
expectations for the year.  
 
The adjusted operating profit for the 14 months ended 31 December 2013 was £3.9m (2013 pro-forma period: £4.7m and 2012: £3.1m). 
The statutory operating profit for the 14 months ended 31 December 2013 was £2.4m; the reduction against the 12 months ended 4 
November 2012 reflects the costs of acquisition incurred during the year of £0.5m, the amortisation of the newly acquired intangible 
assets and the typical seasonality experienced within the Theme Parks for the additional months of November and December. Group 
revenues for the 2013 pro-forma period increased by 29.6% to £37.7m (2012: £29.1m) and finished at £39.6m for the audited 14 
months ended 31 December 2013.   
 
Today’s results highlight the continued resilience to our business, spread as it is across multiple geographies and increased verticals 
within the Leisure industry.  As we continue to extend our reach, particularly into our target expansion market of Asia, and as we begin 
to realise the full benefits of the Siriusware acquisition we firmly believe that this resilience will strengthen further still.   
 
Several of our key indicators have continued to show growth during the period.  Average revenue per guest increased by 8.9% 
supported by a 2% year-on-year increase in overall park attendance. This continued growth in the appeal and adoption of our products 
is driven by our improved sales and marketing efforts and the continued migration of customers to premium-priced solutions.  
 
Cash  
 
Cash from operating activities less capital expenditure, was £2.3m for the pro-forma 12 month period which was 91.6% higher than 
2012.  
 
Our closing net debt balance of £1.2m is better than our expectations, after accounting for the funds discharged in connection with the 
acquisitions and the board believes that the company is in a strong financial position at the period end.   
 
New Banking Facility 
 
As previously announced, in February 2013 we successfully negotiated a new dollar denominated, banking arrangement with Lloyds 
Bank. This facility was further extended in December 2013 to support the Siriusware acquisition and allows the group to draw down up 
to £8.5m. The terms of this facility offers agreed rates of 1.5% above LIBOR on drawings up to £5m (this tranche is due to expire in 
December 2017) and 2% above LIBOR on drawings above £5m (this tranche is due to expire in December 2015). The agreed rate on 
uncommitted funds is 0.6% and 0.8% on the respective elements. The total available for drawdown is subject to annual step downs of 
£2m on 3 December of 2014, 2015, 2016 and is fully repayable in February 2017. 
 
Reporting Currency 
 
The group is currently reviewing its functional currency in line with the respective accounting standard (IAS 21) and depending on the 
outcome of this review may report future consolidated results in United States Dollars. 
 
Tax 
 
The tax charge for the period of £0.2m benefitted substantially relating to deductions on the amortization of intangibles, non-reversing 
tax deductions in the UK and US relating to employee share option exercises and revised prior period research and development claims. 
 
Intellectual Property and Research & Development  
 
A key strength and foundation of our business is the wide-ranging portfolio of patents and IP innovations upon which our product set is 
established. The group remains committed both to the protection of this portfolio as well as the extension of it where appropriate.  
 
As in previous periods, we have acquired additional patents that allow us to continue to differentiate our offering, enhance the group’s 
capabilities and extend our technological leadership within the leisure and attractions industry.  As such, the group   7
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chief executive officer’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 (continued) 
 
is also committed to defending our investments in IP from infringement.  Finally, as demonstrated last period with the signing of the 
group first IP licensing agreement for one of our patent families, we continue to explore opportunities of licensing of our IP where 
appropriate and advantageous. 
 
Our commitment to invest in technology is unchanged and total research and development expenditure, excluding patents, within the 
enlarged group was £1.6m in the period (2012: £0.85m) of which 64% was capitalised (2012: 48%), with this % increase representing the 
resources specifically allocated to accelerate the development of our eCommerce platforms. 
 
Dividend 
 
The board maintains its view that the payment of a dividend is unlikely in the short to medium term with cash better invested in 
product development, complementary M&A as demonstrated by the accesso and Siriusware acquisitions and other growth focused 
investment opportunities.  
 
Operational Review 
 
At the heart of the accesso strategy is a plan to deliver sustainable growth through both organic and acquisitive means.  In this period 
we have delivered convincingly on this plan.  Operationally, this has been a very exciting time for our team and we have made good 
progress in each of our focus areas for growth.  We have secured new customers, certain of which are some of the largest operators in 
our space.  We have delivered combined wins for queuing and ticketing offerings: something we knew would be a strong growth 
opportunity when the two businesses came together. We have also deepened our relationships with existing customers, extending 
some of our longest-standing relationships further in to the future.  
 
A new chapter 
 
Effective from 12 November 2013, the group has been operating under our new name: accesso Technology Group plc and at the same 
time rebranded the technology portfolio to provide consistent marketing across our technology offerings. The name change reflects the 
company’s expanded capabilities and expertise gained when it acquired the privately-held ticketing technology and e-commerce firm 
accesso, LLC. in late 2012. The new name better encompasses the core capabilities of the enlarged group and better reflects the future 
growth ambitions of the business as a whole.  
 
accesso LoQueue 
 
The group’s patented virtual queuing solutions are now marketed under the accesso LoQueue umbrella. We have seen good growth in 
queuing revenues across the accesso LoQueue portfolio during 2013. 
  
We remain extremely excited by the potential for our smartphone-based solutions.  During the period we successfully rolled out 
Qsmart, our smartphone-based, hosted, queuing solution. Qsmart is now operational in three parks globally and there are a number of 
other operators, new and existing, who are very interested in the opportunity it presents. Walibi Holland, one of the Netherlands’ 
leading theme parks was the first European park to adopt Qsmart back in October 2012.  Installed in time for the important Halloween 
2012 weekend, the park saw a significant and encouraging improvement in sales for the equivalent weekend in 2013. 
 
As global smartphone adoption continues to accelerate we are well placed to ride this trend, keeping pace with the technological 
evolution as we continue to update and enhance our smartphone-based queuing solution. With guests visiting parks and now expecting 
to use their smartphone to add to and enhance their experience, we continue to be excited about the prospects for Qsmart within our 
traditional customers as well as the opportunity to deploy our smartphone technology to single line attractions. Importantly, all of our 
new customer enquiries are focusing on Qsmart rather than our proprietary Qbot device.    
 
Regular followers of our story will know that our greatest success in 2012 was the launch of Qband – our award-winning water park 
queuing solution.  The momentum of this product has continued into 2013, with five new parks signed up and live in this financial 
period.  Qband is not just an exciting standalone product, but it also continues to serve as a key means through which we can deepen 
our penetration into existing customer accounts.  For example, during the period Qband was installed at Raging Waters, San Dimas, 
extending our relationship with Palace Entertainment as well as securing a five year agreement with Camelbeach Mountain Waterpark: 
Pennsylvania’s largest water park.  
 
Qband has also enabled us to continue expanding some of our long-standing relationships. During 2013, we extended the relationship 
with Herschend Family Entertainment Group which owns, operates or manages 26 family-oriented theme parks and attractions across 
ten US states. Dollywood’s Splash Country water park will also utilise our Qband product for an initial three year period. In addition, the 
Group’s Dollywood theme park, Tennessee's most ticketed tourist attraction entertaining more than two million visitors per year, 
extended its existing installation of Qbot until 2015.   8
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chief executive officer’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 (continued) 
 
In 2012, we announced an exciting agreement with a major North American operator to install Qbot at two of its parks in the USA. 
Pleasingly we have been able to extend this relationship during 2013 expanding our agreement to include the installation of our Qband 
product at the operator’s US water park which is the third park we now serve within this group. 
 
In addition, we established a new relationship with Village Roadshow Theme Parks, which installed Qband at Wet'n'Wild Las Vegas for a 
five year period.  
 
Finally, we were also awarded a number of contract renewals further highlighting the strength of our technology offerings and 
confidence our customers have in our solutions. During 2013, we renewed contracts with Blackpool Pleasure Beach, and post-period 
end we were able to renew our agreement with Heide Park in Germany, part of Merlin Entertainments Group and finally with 
Dreamworld in Australia. Both Blackpool Pleasure Beach and Dreamworld operate Qsmart alongside Qbot and have had excellent early 
customer adoption to the smart phone product. 
 
accesso Passport 
 
The group’s ticketing, mobile and eCommerce solutions continue to be marketed under the accesso Passport umbrella and each has 
evidenced a strong performance in the period.  During 2013 we have proven the power of the entire product suite, deepened our 
relationships with customers, driven attraction attendance and increased visitor engagement. Pleasingly, ticketing volumes were up 
more than 15 per cent in the period, and, proving the power and increasing adoption of our mobile solutions, mobile ticketing volumes 
increased by more than 475 per cent.  
 
Earlier this year the group signed an important agreement with AAA – The Auto Club Group South in the US.  This agreement sees 
accesso Passport deployed as the club’s exclusive eCommerce ticketing solutions provider. One of the largest AAA club’s in North 
America, The Auto Club Group South has approximately 8.8 million members across eleven states. This represents a significant win for 
the group, running for a four year period and highlighting the strength and scale of accesso’s offering, particularly in North America.   
 
In addition to this platform win, we added seven new venues to the accesso Passport portfolio during the period including eCommerce 
for Gilroy Gardens, Ocean Breeze Water Park and Rapid Water Park and accesso Mobile apps for four additional International Speedway 
Corporation tracks.  
 
Further to this, we achieved another important milestone in January 2013 winning an agreement with Palace Entertainments, the 
largest operator of water parks in the United States and operating a total of 40 attractions in North America, to install products from 
both accesso LoQueue and accesso Passport ranges. As a result Qband was installed at Raging Waters, California’s largest water park 
and Noah’s Ark, the largest water park in the US, began utilising accesso Passport online ticketing. Excitingly, this win now means that 
Palace Entertainments has installed accesso Passport solutions at all 18 of its theme parks and water parks across North America.  
 
Post-period end 
 
Post-period end, new business momentum has continued as operators once again start to look at areas of investment in order to 
enhance visitor experience for the 2014 season.  
 
At the beginning of this current financial period, the group signed a new business agreement with Premier Parks, LLC to provide online 
ticketing and eCommerce support for two Wet ‘n’ Wild water parks in North America. In addition to nine other leisure venues operated 
by Premier, the accesso Passport ticketing suite’s eCommerce solution is now also being leveraged at its newest sites; Wet ‘n’ Wild 
Phoenix and Wet ‘n’ Wild Hawaii. In addition, last year the group signed a five year agreement with Wet ’n’ Wild Phoenix to install the 
accesso LoQueue Qband solution. This new contract also expands this existing relationship with the park as well as deepening the 
strong affiliation with Premier.   
 
Post-period end, we also announced a three year agreement with Delaware North Companies Parks & Resorts at KSC, Inc. to provide 
eCommerce and mobile ticketing support to the world-renowned Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex. 
 
During the first part of this financial period, we have also signed a three year Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) for our first 
Qsmart installation in Asia at The Movie Animation Park Studios in Ipoh, Malaysia. This is a very exciting agreement for us as we begin to 
forge deeper ties with attractions in the important Asian market and also evidences the value of our agreement with Sanderson Group 
in the region. 
 
 
   9
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chief executive officer’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 (continued) 
 
We are also delighted to have been able to announce our first ticketing win in Europe.  We have signed a three year agreement with 
Compagnies des Alpes (“CDA”) to provide the accesso Passport eCommerce solution for five CDA parks in Belgium and Holland. A key 
part of the strategic rationale underpinning the accesso acquisition was the opportunity to leverage existing European relationships to 
generate agreements across our product lines and this agreement is evidence that this is now coming to life: in 2012 the group signed a 
three year agreement with CDA to install Qsmart  at Walibi Holland, one of the Netherland’s top theme parks and this new agreement 
builds on that existing relationship to include accesso Passport. Not only will accesso’s eCommerce solution be installed at Walibi 
Holland alongside the Qsmart system, CDA will also deploy the technology at Walibi Belgium, Bellewaerde Park, Aqualibi Belgium, and 
Dolfinarium. 
 
Finally, as early evidence of the cross-selling opportunities Siriusware brings to the group, in February 2014 we announced a three year 
agreement with Holiday World & Splashin’ Safari to provide those attractions with the accesso Passport eCommerce platform. Holiday 
World represents the first installation now integrating both accesso and Siriusware solutions.  Elsewhere Siriusware have maintained 
good sales momentum with a number of new customers signed up post period end. 
 
Staying ahead 
 
Technology is at the heart of what we do and we have continued to invest in further refining and improving our offering.  
 
The clearest evidence of this is in the constant evolutions we make to our existing products which include enhancing capabilities, 
improving power management, and increasing flexibility.  Each of our products is a part of a broad portfolio and the linkages between 
them are becoming more important particularly as we widen the scope of our offering beyond theme parks and water parks.  For 
example, during the year we have updated our award-winning Qband system to incorporate an improved RFID chip to allow broader 
integration with other systems.  We have also improved the display and installed a new checkpoint scanner to reduce overall 
installation cost.   
 
For our original handheld queuing device, Qbot, we have developed additional functionality to allow parks to offer a wider variety of 
price packages and attraction bundles to their customers. In addition, we have added features which allow devices to be registered 
anywhere in the park, not just upon entry. This additional capability means that our in-park sales teams have more opportunities to sell 
Qbot solutions by seeking out guests anywhere in the park including those already standing in line.  
 
At the same time, work on our eCommerce solution has also been completed during 2013 and the early part of 2014 and we have 
recently launched the 5th version of our Shopland ecommerce store. The new system delivers a fully responsive, seamless buying 
experience across any device be it desktop, a tablet or a smartphone. These improvements to usability and accessibility across multiple 
devices are a development thread that binds all our solutions together. 
 
We have also been working on the natural evolution of our Qsmart platform – to create a platform to enable a queueless theme park – 
which is possible for the first time since the arrival of the smartphone.  The technology has been under development since the summer 
of 2013 and undergone a number of successful if limited tests in a live theme park environment.  We look forward to further developing 
the system over the rest of 2014.  
   
We have also looked hard at the pricing strategy of our traditional queuing product and over the 2013 season collected a great deal of 
data to allow us to more clearly evaluate strategies for 2014. As a result we are going into the coming season with a simplified pricing 
approach and which we hope will lead to deeper sales penetration and an improved in park experience for guests.  So far, we have seen 
an excellent response to this simplified approach.  
 
An enlarged, experienced team 
 
We have completed a number of organisational changes during the period. The senior team that joined at the time of the accesso, LLC. 
acquisition is now fully integrated into the wider business. In addition, we are benefiting from the skills and experience of the strong 
team that joined us from Siriusware. 
 
In order that we continue to provide opportunities for our people and in keeping with our intention to cultivate a one firm approach, I 
am extremely pleased that we have extended our staff stock option schemes across the group – now in excess of 160 full time 
employees. We have received very positive feedback about the scheme and remain committed to creating an environment where our 
people are proud to work. 
 
 
 
   10
accesso Technology Group plc (formerly Lo-Q plc) 
 
Chief executive officer’s report 
for financial period ended 31 December 2013 (continued) 
 
Extending our reach 
 
Expanding the group’s geographic reach remains an important part of the accesso strategy. During the period, we have continued to 
focus efforts on the Asian market place, the fastest-growing theme and water park market globally. 
 
In September 2012 we announced our partnership with Sanderson Group: an Australian multi-national corporation with over 23 years’ 
experience in delivering high quality, themed tourist attractions.  
 
Our efforts in Asia are beginning to bear fruit as we continue to forge strong relationships with attraction operators in the region.  
During the 2013 we signed our first ever agreement with Village Roadshow Theme Parks: Australia's largest theme park operator and 
another strategic partner of Sanderson Group, to install our Qband technology at Village Roadshow’s Wet’n’Wild properties in Las 
Vegas and Phoenix.  
 
We are also delighted to be announcing the signing of an MOU confirming the first Asian customer for Qsmart at The Movie Animation 
Park Studios in Ipoh, Malaysia, due to open in 2015.  The pipeline of new business has been developing well across the region and 
relocating a senior member of our team to Malaysia has certainly given this added momentum.    
 
Positioning our business for the future 
 
At the heart of its strategic ambition, the board’s vision is to build a trusted and proven technology supplier of increasing scale across 
multiple Leisure markets. It is this ambition that led the group to the immediately earnings accretive acquisitions of accesso, LLC. on 4 
December 2012 and, exactly one year later, Siriusware, Inc.. on 4 December 2013.  
 
The acquisition of accesso, LLC. brings together two highly complementary businesses with extremely synergistic technologies. The 
combination of our established queuing business, with the ticketing and eCommerce capabilities of accesso, LLC. presents an excellent 
opportunity for the enlarged group to further defend and deepen existing client relationships.  It also opens up an important strategic 
bridgehead into adjacent Leisure verticals, such as zoos and cultural attractions, and enhances our ability to develop new products, 
particularly in mobile.  
 
The addition of Siriusware adds another new dimension. Based in the US, Siriusware offers a fully integrated suite of software and 
hardware solutions and professional services to the leisure industry.  It adds value to our firm in a number of ways, taking us in to new 
markets, new geographies and further strengthens our already world-class technology platform. Importantly, not only does the 
acquisition strengthen accesso’s penetration in existing verticals, such as amusement parks and waterparks, it also provides the group 
with direct access into new verticals, in particular the ski and snow sports sector and cultural attractions.  
 
The Board firmly believes that both acquisitions will enable the group to deliver even more value to current and future customers by 
working together to further expand our innovative solutions. These acquisitions align likeminded teams and highly complementary 
product offerings.  We are still at a relatively early stage in the integration progress, but as recent announcements have highlighted, we 
have already begun to evidence sales synergies we outlined as part of the transaction.   
 
Summary and Outlook for 2014 
 
To summarise, 2013 was another successful year for accesso. We have delivered double-digit growth across our key financial metrics 
and evidenced an excellent operational performance across our expanded product set.  
 
As we move into 2014, I am particularly encouraged by the opportunities opening up to cross sell our enlarged technological offerings 
and by those opportunities in the Asian market as well as the strong uptake and development of our mobile solutions. Across the globe, 
people are becoming more and more technology literate and guests are now visiting attractions and expecting to use their smartphone 
to add to and enhance their experience. As global smartphone adoption continues to accelerate we are well placed to capture the next 
level of growth across our ticketing and queuing business.  
 
Looking ahead, I am once again excited by the prospects for 2014 for our enlarged group and have great confidence in the abilities of 
our expanded team. 
 
Tom Burnet 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
 
 
