 12 13
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Freight
Freight has been performing well since the second half of last 
year and in the period delivered a 21% increase in gross profit 
to £1.9m and an underlying operating profit of £0.8m, an 
increase of over 100% year-on-year.
We have continued our work with government aid agencies  
to assist in a number of geopolitical crises and, in addition, 
strong growth has been seen in our German and US 
businesses. We have benefited from our continued focus  
on developing stronger relationships and a good reputation 
with freight forwarders. In addition, our Red Track technology 
has contributed to the success of our AOG (aircraft on ground) 
business. Freight remains a key component of Air Partner’s 
aviation service proposition and it is encouraging to see 
our focus and investments delivering a continued and 
improved performance.
Baines Simmons
Baines Simmons was acquired in August 2015 and during 
the period of its ownership contributed a gross profit of £2.0m, 
equivalent to 39% of the total gross profit increase for the 
Group over the whole financial year. At an operating profit level, 
Baines Simmons incurred a small loss of £0.1m, as a result of 
the associated disruption caused by the sale process and the 
costs associated with the change in ownership.
Good integration progress has been made across central 
functions such as finance, HR, IT and travel management, 
and we expect further benefits and opportunities to arise 
through the new financial year.
 
Baines Simmons experienced significant change through 
2015. We appointed an Interim Managing Director of Baines 
Simmons to drive integration with the Group and the business 
has been restructured into three practice areas: Training, 
Consulting and Outsourcing. We have implemented a new 
leadership and executive team, launched SMARRT MAP 
(Safety Management and Risk Reduction Tool) to assist 
organisations to improve their safety management systems 
and performance, and we have begun the roll out of our 
Customer First programme. 
Baines Simmons successfully held its 4th European Aviation 
Safety Symposium ‘Through compliance to performance’ in 
November 2015. The event showcased the importance of safety 
management performance, demonstrated by people at the 
sharp end of major airlines, maintenance repair organisations, 
defence organisations and regulatory authorities. What was 
evident is that while aviation organisations are aware of 
the significant changes facing them under a performance-
based environment, many of them are not prepared for these 
changes. Baines Simmons can address these issues and 
support companies through the change process.
Since the end of our financial year, we have announced 
that Baines Simmons has been awarded a 10-year contract 
to provide aviation support services to the Isle of Man Aircraft 
Registry. This important win for the Outsourcing practice 
provides a strong foundation for growth over the next decade. 
Since launch on 1 May 2007, Baines Simmons’ airworthiness 
surveyors have completed 2,760 aircraft surveys, 
recommending Certificate of Airworthiness for issue, renewal 
or export. Today, a total of 854 aircraft have been registered 
and there are 467 aircraft active on the register, covering 
private and corporate jets as well as twin-turbine helicopters.
Baines Simmons highlights:
Joined the Air Partner family in August 2015
Transition from a private company to being part of a plc
New operational and financial reporting structures in place
Awarded a 10-year contract with the Isle of Man 
Aircraft Registry
Strategy
Our aim is to build a world-class aviation services group, 
renowned for differentiating ourselves, putting the customer 
first in all we do and delivering an elevated customer 
experience consistently and proactively.
Our strategy is based around three components: Optimise, 
Enhance and Extend.
•  Optimise: Central to our strategy is Customer First which has 
already changed the way we operate day-to-day and critically 
is changing the way that we think about our customers. 
Through improved customer insights and alongside 
increased people and process capabilities, the business has 
become more efficient and responsive and able to identify 
growth opportunities. Ultimately, we aspire to optimise 
our current assets and capital.
•  Enhance: We will also identify capabilities and services 
which can sit alongside the broking business and which will 
enhance our existing customer proposition. The acquisition 
of Cabot Aviation is a clear example of enhancing our service 
proposition, while at the same time leveraging our existing 
customer relationships. Cabot Aviation is gaining increasing 
leverage from Air Partner’s existing customer relationships 
and benefiting from being part of a fully-listed public limited 
company. The addition of private jet remarketing at the end 
of 2015 formed part of the original acquisition strategy and 
is a natural enhancement to Cabot Aviation’s proposition. 
Private jet remarketing should benefit from being adjacent 
to our Private Jets charter operations. 
•  Extend: In addition, we will strive to identify areas of strategic 
attractiveness within aviation which, as standalone entities, 
have strong growth characteristics but which also have 
product and service overlays on our existing operating 
model. The acquisition of Baines Simmons is a great 
example of how we have extended our product and service 
proposition while being able to drive synergies across our 
infrastructure as well as across our existing operating model.
Effective allocation of capital resources to the best investment 
opportunities will drive performance and raise expectations 
internally and externally, thereby enhancing not just 
shareholder but also, and crucially, wider stakeholder value. 
There is a degree of controlled disruption of the status quo 
which is required in order to fuel future growth aspirations 
but which is enabled by a clear set of levers to alter the 
business trajectory. In turn, we can increasingly optimise 
existing capital, all set against the backdrop of a dynamic 
and competitive marketplace.
People
We will continue to invest in our people, both in recruitment of 
the best and most professional in our industry, and in providing 
the training and IT support that enables them to deliver 
excellent customer service and the best possible solutions 
to customers.
Towards the end of the financial year, we introduced a 
streamlined Operating Board. Given our operational needs 
and the clear strategic direction of the Group, a flatter 
operating structure was required which would more closely 
align to the business structure with clear accountabilities 
and responsibilities.
Outlook
Trading remained strong through the first and second half 
of the financial year and while we are constantly mindful 
of the uncertainties inherent in our industry, this momentum, 
the energy, enthusiasm and dedication of our people, and our 
clear strategic direction, gives the Board a degree of optimism 
for the year ahead.
Across our Broking division, the Customer First programme 
should benefit from entering into Phase 2, while we have 
begun to implement a Customer First programme into Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons. Operational challenges remain 
however, particularly the performance in the US and the 
sluggishness of Private Jets in Europe, and we are cognisant 
of the need to deliver improvements in these areas.
During the period, we completed two acquisitions which 
have added capabilities and services and which will provide 
contributions and organic growth in the years ahead, 
while reducing the volatility and enhancing the quality 
of our earnings. We are constantly evaluating acquisition 
opportunities which will either increase the scale of our 
existing activities or add further new capabilities and services. 
I would like to express my sincere thanks to all of my Air 
Partner colleagues, including the new additions to our team 
from Cabot Aviation and Baines Simmons, for the hard work, 
dedication and commitment that they have shown throughout 
the year so far. I am proud of our people and the standards of 
excellent service that they deliver to our customers day in and 
day out across the globe.
Mark Briffa
Chief Executive Officer
27 April 2016
Freight highlights:
Investment in the freight division has positively impacted 
sales and profits
The division’s expertise has been invaluable in challenging 
and testing environments supporting aid work
Our proprietary, innovative Red Track product has continued 
to gain respect and traction with freight forwarders PRIVATE JETS 
A TYPICAL 
STOCK MARKET 
IPO – HOW 
WE GOT THE 
ROADSHOW 
IN THE AIR
JOB 
DONE
The background 
A global investment bank 
is assisting with the stock 
market flotation of a 
large financial services 
company on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 
Immediately prior to the 
stock pricing on the NYSE, 
they must excite interest 
from as many potential 
investors as possible. 
And that means going to 
talk with them, wherever 
they are.
The customer’ s 
challenge
Potential investors in 
this case include finance 
houses located in the 
major financial centres 
worldwide. But there are 
also important smaller 
investors in several 
locations beyond the 
major hubs. The solution 
involves multiple teams, 
working simultaneously, 
travelling globally and 
converging on the NYSE 
ahead of the opening bell 
in two weeks’ time.
The operational 
challenge 
The deadline is tight and 
fixed. Jets travel much 
faster than cars, so we use 
the nearest airports and / 
or incorporate helicopter 
transfers to all meetings, 
and minimise transit 
time at airports. Tailoring 
each charter solution 
to the requirements of 
the passengers and the 
demands of the team’s 
itinerary is paramount. 
Precise route planning 
and co-ordination in the air 
and on the ground ensure 
uninterrupted passage 
through the dedicated 
private jet facilities we use.
But even the 
best-laid plans…
All elements of the 
roadshow change: 
appointments shift, 
cancel and re-book. 
For the customer, our 
ability to adapt to these 
changes while maintaining 
safe aircraft operations 
throughout is key. 
Anticipating changes, their 
immediate and downstream 
impact and working with 
the customer to manage 
all that 24-hours-a-day, 
7-days-a-week – it’s what 
we do. Our UK-based 
operations office offers the 
highest levels of service, 
always and everywhere.
Precise planning 
We take the greatest 
care to select the best 
solutions. We assure 
ourselves of the safe 
operating standards of our 
airlines. We double-check 
the technical challenges 
of the route and schedule 
demanded by the brief. 
We carefully consider crew 
flight time limitations, and 
when required, provide 
additional or replacement 
crew so that extended 
flying programmes can 
be accommodated safely. 
We try to anticipate every 
conceivable problem and 
avoid it. But, because we 
are realists, we always 
have a plan B.
Plan B
Air Partner has access 
to the entire world’s 
inventory of properly 
licensed, fully insured and 
professionally-operated 
private aircraft available 
for charter. We spend 
over £200m every year 
to charter them. And we 
never sleep. If things 
go wrong, we find (and 
pay for) a replacement 
aircraft, fast, and we get 
your show back on the 
road. Air Partner will never 
use sub-standard charter 
solutions because we 
have a shared interest in 
the successful completion 
of your flight. This is our 
CharterPlus Guarantee.
We’re proud to say we’ve 
become rather good at 
this over the years. To 
date, the largest IPO that 
Air Partner has sustained 
exclusively with chartered 
jets and helicopters had a 
total market cap of $25bn 
on the first day trading on 
the NYSE. But this is only 
one kind of work we do 
for our broad spectrum 
of customers. From 
tourist trips to blue-ice 
runways in the Antarctic, 
to medivac helicopter 
deployments in Sierra 
Leone – and everything 
in-between – we stand 
ready, 24/7, to assist.
And there’ s more…
Account managers 
at Air Partner arrange 
high-end in-flight catering 
to match the preferences 
of the hard-pressed 
travelling teams. 
To maximise the value 
of every minute available, 
we set up conference 
calls in the privacy of 
their own aircraft, and 
presentations at the 
private terminals we use. 
On long-haul overnight 
flights, we can offer larger 
aircraft to accommodate 
fully flat double beds, and 
even showers, allowing 
the roadshow teams 
to meet the investors 
thoroughly refreshed.
14 15
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 16 17
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Financial review  
Revenue recognition
During the period the directors reviewed the Group’s revenue 
recognition methodology. Following this review, which was 
conducted with reference to the contractual terms between 
the Group and its customers, the directors determined that it 
was more appropriate to recognise the majority of the Group’s 
customer contracts on an agency basis, rather than that of 
principal. Accordingly, revenue for the year to 31 January 
2015 has been restated at £37.6m due to this change in 
methodology. The Group will continue to present the former 
revenue amount, now called ‘Gross transaction value’, on the 
face of the income statement. Further details of this change 
in methodology are provided in note 2.
There has been no impact on reported profit, net assets 
or cash flows as a result of this change in methodology.
Other items
We incurred £1.1m of other items in the period under review 
(2015: £nil). Acquisition-related costs accounted for £0.4m 
with a further £0.2m amortisation charge of acquisition-related 
intangible assets. A charge of £0.4m related to the changes 
to the previous Leadership Team while we also incurred 
a £0.1m share-based payment cost following the Cabot 
Aviation acquisition.
Financial position
The total cash balance of £19.8m has increased from the prior 
year comparative of £18.8m, driven by an increase in JetCard 
deposits over the period to £16.8m from £14.1m in the previous 
year. The reduction in non-JetCard cash of £1.7m to £3.0m was 
driven by a positive inflow from operating items, offset by the 
net £2.3m being utilised for the acquisition of Baines Simmons 
and Cabot Aviation, £2.3m relating to dividends and £0.3m 
negative working capital due to an increase in receivables 
from our larger credit customers. 
Our gross debt at the year end totalled £3.5m and increased 
through the period due to the £3.6m loan and related charges 
that we took out as part of the Baines Simmons acquisition. 
The Group’s net debt, excluding JetCard cash, stood at  
£0.5m at the year end, equivalent to just 0.1 times EBITDA, 
and demonstrates the strength of our balance sheet despite 
absorbing two acquisitions during the year.
Taxation
The prior year tax position benefited from two one-off 
initiatives resulting in the recognition of deferred tax assets, 
namely a research and development claim and the impact of 
changing the tax basis for JetCards in the US, which resulted 
in an overall tax credit. In the current period, the Group’s 
underlying tax rate is 30% (2015: -6%) and the effective 
tax rate, based on reported profit, excluding discontinued 
operations is 39% (2015: -6%). The underlying tax rate has 
been impacted by a timing difference on JetCards in the US 
and without this would have stood at 24%. The underlying 
tax rate is lower than the rate for the statutory profit due 
to the fact that the acquisition costs, goodwill amortisation 
and share-based payment charge included within other items 
were not deductible for tax purposes.
Foreign exchange
Where possible the Group uses natural hedging to minimise 
its foreign exchange exposure, for example matching JetCard 
deposits denominated in Euro with the respective deferred 
income or, when possible, using forward contracts to fix rates 
to pay its suppliers. The net foreign exchange gain for the year 
was £2k (2015: £24k).
The Group also uses derivative financial instruments to hedge 
certain transactions in accordance with its internal policy. 
The fair value of these instruments at the balance sheet date 
was an asset of £36k (2015: liability of £150k) and the gain 
recognised through the income statement as a result of the 
change in fair value was £186k (2015: loss of £104k).
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer
27 April 2016
Neil Morris
Chief Financial Officer
Market overview  
Global economy 
OECD forecasts for global economic growth in 2016 and 2017 
of 3.0% and 3.3% respectively are mostly in line with the 3.0% 
registered in 2015. Stronger global growth remains elusive 
and impacted among other things by low commodity prices 
and inflation. Lower oil prices may help consumers but have 
negatively impacted oil-related investments.
Aviation market
According to the International Air Transport Association (IATA), 
global air passenger traffic in 2015 grew by 6.5%, ahead of the 
10-year average growth rate of 5.5% and boosted by lower air 
fares. Growth in North America was solid at 4.3%, while Europe 
registered 5.1%. The Middle East was the strongest region 
with 10% growth, followed by Asia-Pacific at 8.6%. Total traffic 
growth outstripped the rise in capacity, with the global load 
factor reaching an all-time high of 80.3%.
IATA data also showed that cargo volumes expanded by 2.2% 
in 2015, down from the 5.0% growth recorded in 2014, with 
sluggish growth in Europe and North America of 1.2% and 
1.4% respectively.
In the US, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) gathers 
aircraft activity data for business jets which shows that flight 
numbers rose by 1.2% in 2015 versus a 4.0% increase in 2014.
From a European perspective and according to WingX Advance, 
business aviation flights in Europe declined by 0.6% in 2015, 
but within this France grew by 3.3%, Germany by 2.4% and 
the UK by 1.2%. The worst performing markets were Russia 
which declined by 23.0% and Turkey which experienced 
an 8.4% decline. 
Air Partner operates across a range of global 
aviation markets. The key drivers of these 
markets are the strength of the economies in 
which Air Partner operates, the aviation market, 
the geo-political situation, the frequency 
of natural disasters or failure events, the 
competitor landscape, regulation changes 
and the environment.
Geo-political risks, natural disasters and events
Geo-political events such as wars and terrorist attacks 
can have a considerable influence on the airline industry. 
The economic and political role of commercial aviation makes 
airports, aircraft and supply chains a highly desirable target for 
new, unconventional opponents, such as terrorists, insurgents 
and single-issue groups.
Our experience has demonstrated that Air Partner often assists 
its customers’ ability to respond to such challenges. Examples 
include troop and equipment movements for military conflict, 
evacuation of personnel from disaster zones, transport of aid 
to disaster zones and repatriation of citizens in response to 
politically driven immigration programmes. In addition, the 
expertise of Baines Simmons is often called upon when an 
airline experiences safety-related incidents. Given Air Partner’s 
experience of providing solutions to such challenges, the 
Group is well positioned to benefit from increasing global 
political instability.
Competitive landscape
The global air charter market is highly fragmented, with low 
barriers to entry and little regulation. Most of the major aircraft 
broking companies are based in the United Kingdom but, 
unlike Air Partner, they are private companies. Like Air Partner, 
the major aircraft brokers are susceptible not only to the 
cyclical nature of the macro-economic environment, but also 
geo-political situations. Our competitors employ a number 
of tactics to differentiate themselves from the competition, 
including focusing more on specific sectors that require more 
experience to replicate, niche markets or geographic markets.
OECD outlook
%
 2016 
 2017
Source: http://www.oecd.org/eco/outlook/united-kingdom-economic-forecast-
summary .htm
UK World USA France Germany Italy
2.1
3.0
2.0
3.3
2.0
2.2
1.2
1.3
1.0
1.5
1.7
1.4 18 19
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Technology could also change the landscape of the charter 
market, primarily in the private jet sector, through the 
development of technology platforms to enable customers 
to book their flight without the need to speak to a broker. 
There are a number of companies looking to deliver this 
technological breakthrough in the market but presently there 
is no clear market leader and no business has yet been able 
to deliver a profitable business model. Also, it should be noted 
that private jet itineraries are often complex, and passengers’ 
needs challenging. Often these needs cannot be serviced 
by technology and the experience and skills of a broker 
are required.
Air Partner also has to compete with operators who look to 
charter their aircraft directly to the customer, across all three 
business sectors.
Air Partner seeks to protect its market position by:
• attracting and retaining excellent broking talent;
•  seeking to maintain a class-leading customer experience, 
offering a stronger and more reliable service to emphasise 
the value of the Air Partner brand;
•  improving its technology to deliver a better service to 
its customers and make operational efficiencies; and
•  constantly reviewing its strategy and product offering 
to ensure it remains at the forefront of professional 
aviation services.
 
The global civil aviation industry has continued to consolidate 
and while profitability in the industry has benefited from falling 
oil prices, there is constant pressure to reduce costs and 
improve operational efficiency.
In today’s fast moving aviation world, the long term benefits 
of safety management performance are increasingly being 
recognised as strategic and operational factors for success. 
Busier skies, greater competition, higher demands for higher 
fleet utilisation and greater operational capability all place 
increasing pressure on safety and its management. The 
aviation safety world has moved in the last five years from 
seeking better understanding of how safety management 
systems (SMS) work to securing effective performance.
The Organisational Safety market within which Baines 
Simmons operates is relatively immature but the regulators’ 
move from compliance-based to performance-based oversight 
is changing the emphasis of how aviation organisations 
operate. The market is relatively fragmented, represented in 
many ways by small and private companies with a technical 
or engineering orientation. 
For many organisations, safety management performance 
is now regarded as a key tool for ensuring the right balance 
is struck between commercial or operational demands and 
protecting their people, assets and reputation from harm.
Driven by regulatory changes to operate an effective safety 
management system, safety management performance 
is becoming a growing industry priority as organisations 
start to create safety strategies, secure budgets and 
win board commitment to long term safety performance 
investment programmes.
Busier skies, more planes,  
more demand for our services
Source: Boeing current market outlook 
2015 to 2034
Airplanes in service 
2014 to 2034
Demand by size 
2015 to 2034
2014 2034 New planes Value ($BN)
Large widebody 740 670 540 230
Medium widebody 1,620 3,800 3,520 1,220
Small widebody 2,520 5,800 4,770 1,250
Single aisle 14,140 30,630 26,730 2,770
Regional jets 2,580 2,660 2,490 100
T otal 21,600 43,560 38,050 5,570
Baines Simmons differentiates itself from its competitors  
in a number of ways:
•  every one of its consultants is hand-picked for their 
specialist skills, expertise and knowledge in a particular 
field of aviation safety risk management and regulatory 
compliance; and
•  the Baines Simmons SMARRT MAP is an Organisational 
Safety Performance model that illustrates the relationship 
between the four core safety management systems 
(Regulatory Compliance, Compliance Monitoring, Human 
Factors & Error Management and Safety Risk Management) 
and the five key performance enablers (Active Leadership, 
Managed Competence, Supportive Capability, Robust 
Assurance and Proactive Culture).
Regulation
The aircraft charter market remains largely unregulated, 
particularly outside the United States. However, through 
working with industry groups, national regulatory bodies 
such as the Civil Aviation Authority, and voluntarily through 
achieving ISO accreditation, Air Partner is seeking to improve 
and standardise best practice in the aircraft charter market.
Both the civil and defence aviation markets are highly 
regulated and these regulations are constantly changing.
Behind the safety statistics are incidents, near misses and 
risk factors that could have developed into accidents. With the 
number of flights rising, more demand is being placed on an 
already busy system. By building a holistic picture of aviation 
safety performance the regulators can see the true extent of 
the risks to passengers and the general public. They can also 
make better decisions about how to ensure that the aviation 
industry is managing the risks effectively.
The transition to performance-based regulation (PBR) started 
in 2013 and is being adopted by regulators across the world, 
including the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) 
and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). It requires 
the accumulation and analysis of data on the organisations 
we regulate to build up an accurate picture of risk both by 
organisation and by sector. The regulators are attempting 
to embed a risk-based approach to safety regulation and 
continuing to work with industry to develop a common 
safety management system.
In the Defence market, 26 participating member states (PMS) 
of the European Defence Agency (EDA) have committed to the 
principles or harmonisation of airworthiness requirements. 
In October 2015, the Military Airworthiness Authorities 
(MAWA) Forum approved for publication the European 
Military Airworthiness Requirement (EMAR) on Continuing 
Airworthiness Management (CAM). With the full EMAR now 
approved, the PMS are able to implement these harmonised 
requirements into their national airworthiness regulations.
In February 2015, the UK Military Aviation Authority (MAA) 
stated that ‘In a time of extreme pressure on defence budgets, 
harmonising military airworthiness among allies can bring 
big benefits’. Through its long term relationship with various 
military authorities, Baines Simmons should be well positioned 
to benefit from the opportunities which are stemming from 
these regulation changes.
Environment
As a broker, Air Partner’s carbon footprint is immaterial; 
however we recognise that we are involved in an industry 
that makes a small but significant contribution to man-made 
carbon dioxide emissions. Accordingly, Air Partner has 
undertaken extensive work to understand the environmental 
performance of the aircraft types that we offer and share this 
data with our customers, right from the start, at the proposal 
stage. Uniquely therefore, Air Partner’s customers have access 
to all the solutions available to a particular mission and can 
make their value judgment based on more than just price, 
but also with specific reference to the emissions attributable 
to that aircraft on that proposed route. Unlike other providers 
who may, or often may not, offer just a standard carbon offset 
scheme based on their own limited fleet (which could be 
ill-suited to the mission in any case), Air Partner offers our 
customers a totally bespoke solution every time. Only then do 
we offer to neutralise the calculated impact of these emissions 
through our carbon-offset programme operated by renowned 
specialists, The CarbonNeutral Company.
Market overview continued  Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
FREIGHT
DELIVERING 
THE WORLD’S 
BIGGEST 
SPARE PART 
JOB 
DONE
Emergency  
request
Customer aircraft 
on ground (AOG) desk 
needed a replacement 
cowl for an A380 aircraft 
– urgently. Air Partner’s 24-
hour operations team took 
the night-time call and 
contacted the out-of-hours 
on-duty freight specialist. 
(Call: 20 Jan 02:00am)
Finding the  
right aircraft
The cowl was an oversized 
part that could neither 
be broken down nor 
turned. Extensive work 
on sourcing the correct 
aircraft and looking at 
loading options started 
immediately, and it was 
determined that the only 
suitable aircraft was the 
Antonov – AN124.
Booking  
the slot
Due to the urgency of 
the requirement and the 
logistics for movement 
of such a large piece, the 
part was stored at London 
Heathrow. But Heathrow 
is one of the busiest 
international airports 
in the world, with strict 
slot restrictions, making 
ad hoc charters near 
impossible to arrange. 
Along with AOG, Air 
Partner liaised directly 
with the airport authorities 
to obtain special 
dispensation and permits 
for a time-critical move.
Procuring  
the flight
The flight was negotiated 
and procured by 
Air Partner with the 
chartered carrier, on 
behalf of the customer. 
For such a bespoke 
and specialist move, 
we were able to review 
and amend the terms of 
the carrier’s contract so 
that they reflected the 
customer’s requirements.
Meticulous  
planning
With slots approved at 
both London Heathrow 
and Miami, intensive work 
ensured that planning 
and maintenance could 
be completed to get the 
unserviceable A380 aircraft 
back in the sky, and the 
damaged cowl returned 
to Heathrow, within the 
agreed 48-hour period. 
Our freight specialists 
were present at both the 
departures and arrivals 
of the aircraft to ensure 
a smooth and efficient 
operation. (Departure 
22 Jan 20:00pm. Return 
25 Jan 18:00pm)
Reporting  
all the way
From the positioning of 
the Antonov into London 
Heathrow, loading of 
the part, departure, 
offloading, re-loading and 
returning from Miami back 
to London Heathrow, the 
operation was monitored 
by Air Partner’s in-house 
24-hour ops team. And, 
throughout, they provided 
the customer’s AOG teams 
around the world with 
step-by-step live updates 
on the crucial move.
Preparing the 
paperwork
Air Partner advised 
and assisted on the 
preparation of the cargo 
for safe transportation, 
as well as on the extensive 
paperwork relating to 
the movement, including 
for temporary import 
into the US as the part 
was required in Miami. 
The chartered Antonov 
– AN124 was to lay over 
in Miami to allow the 
replacement cowl to be 
fitted on the grounded 
aircraft, before returning 
to London Heathrow with 
the damaged part.
21 20
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 22 23
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Business model  
Our strategy involves the effective allocation of capital 
resources to the best investment opportunities which should 
drive performance and raise expectations internally and 
externally, thereby enhancing not just shareholder but also, 
and crucially, wider stakeholder value. There is a degree of 
controlled disruption of the status quo which is required in 
order to fuel future growth aspirations but which is enabled 
by a clear set of levers to alter business trajectory. In turn, 
we can increasingly optimise existing capital and achieve 
full potential, all set against a backdrop of a dynamic and 
competitive marketplace.
We place our customers at the heart of every decision 
we make, supported and optimised by our people and our 
infrastructure. We strive to continuously enhance and extend 
our products and services to deliver a differentiated and 
exceptional customer experience.
Air Partner’s brand and status as a listed plc allows us to stand 
out among our peer group. Our greatest asset is our people 
and so investment to attract, retain and develop our people 
is critical to the ongoing success of Air Partner. Our policy on 
investment in new talent is closely aligned to our focus on key 
markets and where we are likely to achieve the greatest return.
Aircraft Charter is at the core of our business model, providing 
tailored services for many years, leveraging our relationships 
with the majority of aircraft operators and enabling us to select 
the aircraft appropriate for our customers’ needs. 
Profit is largely generated through commissions, although 
some fee income is generated through the provision of 
professional services or, in the case of our Emergency 
Planning Division, subscriptions.
Our charter customer base predominantly includes corporate 
customers (which also encompass sports teams and tour 
operators), governments, and high net worth individuals, 
who require our skills and expertise to solve often complex 
aviation requirements. The projects themselves can range from 
one-off charters, particularly for high net worth individuals 
requiring a private jet, to much longer or more complicated 
projects spanning many months or multiple rotations. Our 
ability to meet and exceed our customers’ expectations when 
delivering these solutions allows Air Partner to build long term 
relationships with these customers as they understand and 
appreciate what we can do for them. 
While each segment of Air Partner’s charter business specialises 
in a different area of aviation, the services are complementary 
and often service the same customer, allowing us to deliver 
the same level of service wherever they are in the world. 
Aircraft remarketing was added to our offer following the 
acquisition of Cabot Aviation in May 2015. Cabot Aviation 
provides comprehensive remarketing programmes for all 
types of commercial and corporate aircraft to a wide range 
of international customers drawn from the airline and financial 
services sectors, including banks, lessors and liquidators. 
Cabot Aviation has a global market presence.
Projects involve selling or leasing aircraft and selling aircraft with 
leases attached or arranging sale and leasebacks. In addition, 
Cabot Aviation undertakes aircraft acquisition mandates for 
lessors and airlines, wet leasing, consultancy and aircraft 
technical services.
Profit is largely generated through commissions attached 
to mandates as well as through retainers.
Baines Simmons was acquired by Air Partner in August 2015 
and is a world leader in aviation safety consulting, specialising 
in aviation regulation, compliance and safety management and 
partnering with both civil and defence aviation organisations 
to improve safety performance.
Baines Simmons is structured into three practices of Training, 
Consulting and Outsourced Services.
Through our bespoke consultancy programmes and 
practically-focused training services, we help to bridge gaps 
of knowledge, competence, skills and understanding between 
regulated organisations and their employees, and regulatory 
authorities and their inspectors. Our outsourcing operations 
are mostly covered by the service we provide to support the 
Isle of Man Aircraft Registry.
Every one of our consultants are hand-picked for their specialist 
skills, expertise and knowledge in a particular field of aviation 
safety risk management and regulatory compliance. Through 
them, we deliver customised solutions that are designed to 
reduce exposure to safety risk, enhance organisational safety 
and manage and improve regulatory compliance.
Key element Description
Creating value by putting 
our customers first
In such a competitive market place, repeat business is the most effective and efficient way to achieving 
sustainable growth.
Our aim is to become industry leaders, famous for differentiating ourselves from the competition, putting  
the customer first in all we do and delivering an elevated customer experience consistently and proactively.
Optimise our core Central to the strategy is Customer First which will change the way we operate and critically change the way 
that we think about our customers. Via improved customer insights alongside increased people and process 
capabilities, the Broking business should be able to identify clear growth opportunities as well as being able  
to operate from a significantly more efficient infrastructure.
Enhance our offer Identify products and services which can sit alongside the core and which will enhance the existing customer 
proposition. Our acquisition of Cabot Aviation in May 2015 is a clear example of enhancing our service 
proposition while at the same time leveraging our existing customer relationships.
Extend our offer Identify areas of strategic attractiveness within aviation which as standalone entities have strong growth 
characteristics but which also have product and service overlays on the existing operating model. 
Our acquisition of Baines Simmons in August 2015 is a great example of how we have extended our product  
and service proposition while being able to drive synergies across our infrastructure as well as across our 
existing operating model.
Developing and retaining  
our people
Our people are critical to delivering our objective of putting the customer first and ensuring we have the ability 
to deliver our product offering. To ensure we retain and develop our people, Air Partner:
•  has a commitment to training, especially through a long-standing partnership with Cranfield University,  
as well as professional training for finance and internal courses;
• gives employees experience of working in other parts of the Group, where appropriate;
•  offers performance-related remuneration, such as commission for brokers as well as bonuses for achieving 
local, Group and personal targets; and
• operates a structured and regular appraisal process.
Maintaining and enhancing  
brand identity
The global aviation services market is broad, fragmented and competitive and differentiating our brand identity 
from the competition remains critical to our current and future success. Key to maintaining and enhancing brand 
identity is delivery of a consistently elevated customer service. Our Customer First programme enables our 
people to be effective, supported with the right tools and to be able to provide our customers with an unrivalled 
level of service, enhanced by over 50 years of knowledge and skills within the business.
Strategic initiatives
Air Partner is a global aviation services group 
that applies its accumulated knowledge from 
over 50 years of trading to provide a range of 
comprehensive and bespoke worldwide solutions 
to its customer base which is often faced with 
complex problems.
Air Partner’ s strategy is to build a global aviation 
services company and to create long term 
shareholder value by leveraging our brand 
reputation and utilising the experience and 
expertise of our greatest asset, our people.
By putting our customers first, we aspire to 
deliver a differentiated and exceptional customer 
experience which in turn will increase the value of 
our brand, grow sales and profits, and deliver long 
term value to our people and our shareholders.
There are six key pillars underpinning our strategy: Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
CABOT AVIATION 
FLIGHT PATH OF 
A SUCCESSFUL 
AIRCRAFT SALE
JOB 
DONE
New business
• Target potential sellers
•  Respond to request 
for proposal (RFP) for 
remarketing agents
• Referrals
• Former customers
Remarketing 
agreements
Negotiate acceptable 
terms in the agreement 
which covers: 
• duration of agreement
• success fees
• exclusivity
Contact all  
potential buyers
Using a third party 
database we identify 
the operators we plan 
to contact using our own 
9,000+ contact database. 
We also target lessors, 
teardown companies 
and traders.
Negotiate price 
On behalf of the customer 
we engage in negotiations 
with interested parties. 
Our aim is to obtain the 
best price but to make 
sure that the buyer has 
the ability to perform. 
Once our customer is 
in agreement we move  
to the next stage.
LOI
A letter of intent (LOI) 
is issued and negotiated. 
Both parties need to agree 
on deposits, payment 
terms, delivery conditions, 
location and the date. 
Inspection
The buyer carries out an 
inspection to ensure the 
aircraft meets the delivery 
conditions. If it doesn’t 
then usually they will 
look to renegotiate the 
deal or possibly to pull 
out completely. If they are 
happy then they sign a 
technical acceptance.
Sale agreement
Once happy with the 
inspection the parties 
negotiate a Sale 
Agreement. Once signed 
then both parties move 
forward to undertake 
all their contractual 
obligations so that the 
delivery date can be met.
Payment
Payment is made by the 
buyer on the delivery date, 
any liens and mortgages 
are discharged and once 
funds have cleared a Bill 
of Sale is issued and the 
aircraft is de-registered.
Ferry flight
The buyer then ferries 
the aircraft to its chosen 
delivery location. 
Cabot Aviation invoices 
seller for its commission.
Aircraft marketing 
data
In order to create a useful 
specification for the aircraft 
we collect data from 
the seller. This includes 
airframe, auxillary power 
unit (APU) and engine 
status plus layout of 
passenger accommodation 
(LOPA) and photos. We 
also collect additional data 
such as life-limited part 
(LLP) and Airworthiness 
Directives (AD) summaries 
that buyers will request.
24 25
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 26 27
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Key performance indicators
The Group’ s Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) 
are shown here. The financial indicators are 
designed to help management and investors 
to assess performance and are capable of being 
measured over the longer term. All KPIs are based 
on total rather than underlying measures, except 
for underlying profit before tax and underlying 
basic earnings per share. 
A high percentage of the Group’ s business is 
driven by the short term needs of our customers. 
A long forward order book is therefore not 
available and not appropriate to use as a 
measure of the Group’ s longer term prospects. 
Detailed segmental reporting is set out in  
note 4 to the financial statements.
Gross transaction value
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
281.9
227.6
211.5
192.1
210.8
Key performance indicators for the last five financial periods, 
being the financial years ended 31 July 2011, 31 July 2012, the 
unaudited pro-forma financial year ended 31 January 2014 and 
the financial years ended 31 January 2015 and 31 January 2016, 
are set out below:
Gross profit
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
25.9
21.8
23.4
22.0
27.3
Underlying profit before tax
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
5.7
3.2
4.1
2.6
4.3
Return on equity
%
Return on equity is calculated as 
operating profit over net assets.
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
44.2
29.8 29.7
20.4
23.8
T otal shareholder return
%
T otal shareholder return is calculated 
using the following formula: (closing 
share price + dividends - opening share 
price)/opening share price.
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
40.9
-40.2
117.6
-37.6
31.8
T otal cash
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
7.2
15.7
18.4
18.8
19.8
Underlying basic  
earnings per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
36.0
21.3
28.6
27.7
29.7
Basic earnings per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
39.6
29.1
29.8
27.6
19.1
Dividends per share
Pence
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
16.5
18.2
28.0
22.1
24.3
Non-JetCard cash
£m
2011 2012 2014 2015 2016
1.6
8.1
9.7
4.7
3.0
