 4 5
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chairman’ s statement  
Strong full year results
The Board is pleased to report a strong performance for the year 
ended 31 January 2016. Gross profit rose by 24% to £27.3m 
while underlying operating profit and underlying profit before 
tax increased by 67% and 64% respectively, reflecting the 
Group’s strong trading performance. Reported pre-tax profit rose 
by 20% to £3.2m after a charge of £1.1m relating to acquisitions 
and restructuring costs. Basic continuing EPS, however, fell by 
31% due to the non-recurrence of the prior year tax credit.
The strong underlying performance resulted from improved 
trading across all our broking operations with outstanding 
performances in Private Jets, which increased its underlying 
operating profit by over 200% to £2.4m (2015: £0.8m), and 
Freight, which doubled its underlying operating profit to £0.8m 
(2015: £0.4m). Commercial Jets, our largest division, delivered 
a 10% increase in underlying operating profit to £3.0m (2015: 
£2.7m). Baines Simmons, for the period of ownership, incurred 
a small loss as a result of the disruption caused by the sale 
process and the costs associated with the change in ownership.
The Group’s underlying basic earnings per share has increased 
by 7% to 29.7p. This is lower than the increase in underlying 
pre-tax profits, reflecting the non-recurrence of last year’s tax 
credits coupled with a non-recurring US tax item. Excluding 
this, underlying basic earnings per share would have been 33.1p. 
The reduction in non-JetCard cash of £1.7m to £3.0m was 
driven by a positive inflow from operating items offset by 
£2.3m being utilised for the acquisition of Baines Simmons 
and Cabot Aviation, £2.3m relating to dividends and £0.3m 
negative working capital due to an increase in receivables from 
our larger credit customers. Taking into account the £3.6m 
bank loan associated with the acquisition of Baines Simmons, 
our year end net debt was £0.5m, excluding JetCard cash, 
equivalent to 0.1 times EBITDA. 
A clear strategy 
We have made good progress against our clear strategy 
to build a world-class aviation services group which delivers 
tailored and comprehensive aviation solutions to our global 
customers. We are achieving this organically through 
continuous operational improvement, optimisation of existing 
resources and enhancement of our capabilities and services. 
Where appropriate, we will acquire complementary capabilities 
and services that either add to or enhance our customer offer, 
enabling us to leverage our existing global office network and 
enhance the quality and visibility of our earnings.
Our Customer First programme is a clear commitment to 
continuous organic improvement and optimisation. Customer 
First unequivocally puts our customers at the heart of every 
decision that we make and, with improved services and 
efficiencies, it will enable us to differentiate our offer and build 
upon our already strong brand identity. Following successful 
trials which began in September 2015, the programme, which 
involves a new way of working, was rolled out across the entire 
broking business at the beginning of the new financial year. We 
plan to roll out Customer First across the entire Group in 2016.
Over the course of the financial year, we acquired two 
businesses with excellent reputations in their respective 
markets, which have enhanced and extended our capabilities 
and services. In May 2015, Air Partner acquired Cabot 
Aviation, a leading global aircraft remarketing broker, 
for a total net consideration of up to £0.8m. In August 2015, 
Baines Simmons, a world-leading aviation safety consultant, 
was acquired for an initial net cash consideration of up 
to £5.3m, and up to a further £0.6m based on operating 
performance in the year ending 31 January 2018. We are very 
pleased with customer responses and we are confident that 
both businesses will thrive as part of our Group in the years 
ahead as we integrate and invest for growth.
Dividend policy
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 16.9p, a year-on-
year increase of 10%, taking the full year dividend to 24.3p 
which is also a year-on-year increase of 10% and which is 
equivalent to a 1.4 times dividend cover on adjusted underlying 
EPS. Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 
29 June 2016, the final dividend is expected to be paid on 6 July 
2016 to those shareholders registered at close of business on 
10 June 2016. The ex-dividend date will be 9 June 2016.
Since moving to a main market listing in November 1995  
and following payment of the proposed final dividend, we 
will have returned over £44m of cash to shareholders in the 
form of ordinary and special dividends. Then, Air Partner had 
35 staff in three locations across two countries and a market 
capitalisation of £9m. Today we have 260 staff in 20 locations 
across eight countries, with a market capitalisation of £43m. 
We have adapted to serve a global economy and a very 
dynamic aviation market, engaging with a broader variety of 
customers in ways we could never have foreseen at the time 
of our IPO. We have maintained our leadership by expanding 
our capabilities and services, investing in our people, our 
global office network and IT infrastructure and along the way 
have introduced innovative new solutions and products such 
as JetCard. During this 20-year period, our operating profit 
has increased at a compound annual growth rate of 9%.
We have always taken a conservative approach to our 
financing. Organic business development, together with 
day-to-day working capital needs, has been primarily funded 
from free cash flow and we have consistently maintained a 
strong balance sheet. We will continue to adopt a prudent 
approach to our financial strategy, balancing the need to invest 
for future growth as well as delivering shareholder returns.
The Board believes that there are further opportunities to 
grow the business and we will continue to pursue appropriate 
businesses if there is a strong commercial and strategic logic 
and if such opportunities meet our strict financial criteria. 
Acquiring businesses of the quality and stature of Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons was the result of extensive 
groundwork and analysis by the management team, and these 
two businesses will make great contributions to the Group in 
the years ahead. We will maintain our conservative financing 
and, where appropriate, fund small and medium sized 
acquisitions with self-generated free cash flows. The Board 
has reviewed the Group’s dividend policy and determined that 
it should continue to pay a progressive dividend while at the 
same time aiming to build cover to between 1.5 and 2.0 times 
underlying EPS.
Board changes
On 20 April 2016, we announced that Amanda Wills CBE 
and Shaun Smith would be joining the Board as Independent 
Non-executive directors with effect from 20 April 2016 and 
1 May 2016 respectively.
Amanda started her career with Airtours plc in 1987 and 
was CEO of Virgin Holidays Travel Group from 2001 to 2014. 
She is currently Non-executive director of eDreams ODIGEO 
S.A., a global online travel agency listed on the Madrid Stock 
Exchange, and Chairman of Urbanologie.com, a digital start 
up business catering for the high net worth and luxury sector. 
Amanda was awarded a CBE in the Queen’s 2015 New Year 
Honours list for services to the British travel industry and 
to charity. 
Shaun Smith began his career in retail management and 
corporate treasury at Marks and Spencer plc before joining Aga 
Rangemaster Group plc (formerly Glynwed International plc) 
in 1989, becoming Group Treasurer in 1999 and Group Finance 
Director from 2001, until its recent takeover. He was appointed 
Group Finance Director of Norcros plc on 4 April 2016.
We also announced that Andrew Wood, Independent 
Non-executive director, Senior Independent director and 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee has decided to 
step down from the Board after five years and will retire as 
a director at the Company’s AGM on 29 June. On Andrew’s 
retirement, Peter Saunders will be appointed as Senior 
Independent director and Shaun Smith will be appointed 
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
I would like to take the opportunity to thank Andrew Wood 
for his valued service to the Company over the past five years 
and his significant contribution to the Board and the Audit and 
Risk and Remuneration Committees. Andrew’s experience and 
financial knowledge have greatly benefited the Company and 
on behalf of the Board I wish him well for the future.
Outlook
Trading so far in the new financial year is encouraging, 
and given the full year contribution that we expect from Cabot 
Aviation and Baines Simmons, we enter the new financial year 
with a degree of optimism. The Board remains confident that 
its strategy to optimise, enhance and extend our capabilities 
and services will continue to create shareholder value. 
Richard Everitt
Chairman
27 April 2016
Richard Everitt
Chairman
“ Our strategy is to build a world-class 
aviation services group, delivering 
tailored and comprehensive aviation 
solutions to our customers globally .” Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
6 7
COMMERCIAL JETS 
A CAR LAUNCH 
AND 5,000 
RETAILERS 
COMING FROM 
ALL OVER 
EUROPE
JOB 
DONE
Air Partner delivered 
5,000 people…
…on 90 flights, over 22 
days, from 23 countries 
and 33 European 
departure airports, to the 
Spanish event destination. 
(And their luggage arrived 
safely too.)
Charter and 
scheduled tickets
Although the event took 
place in peak holiday 
season, Air Partner was 
able to charter exclusive 
use of two aircraft for the 
whole project period. And 
provide the 5,000 visitors 
with scheduled tickets 
for the journey to their 
departure airports.
In-flight service
On all flights, Air Partner’s 
customer-focused 
ServicePLUS team had 
organised an automatic 
catering upgrade for 
the passengers. 
Air Partner took 
responsibility 
for 7,497 pieces 
of luggage
From the arrival airport 
in Spain to the event 
hotel, from 90 flights, 
over 22 days – and then 
back again – Air Partner 
arranged transfer for 
7,497 pieces of luggage. 
Customer 
information:  
always on track 
During the entire 
project, after each flight, 
Air Partner updated our 
customer on expected 
arrival times, number 
of passengers and pieces 
of luggage on board. 
This gave our customer 
constant visibility 
of information and 
reassurance that visitors 
were being delivered 
as expected. 
Logistical expertise
With a lead time of 
only six weeks, the Air 
Partner project team had 
successfully arranged 
the preparation and 
implementation of this 
logistically complex flight 
project. Air Partner’s 
project leaders, as well 
as dedicated supervisors 
at each airport, took care 
of the organisation of 
the flight and luggage 
logistics in Spain.
Pre-airport check-in
So that departing visitors 
could avoid long waits 
and check-in queues at 
the airport, Air Partner 
arranged for two check-in 
counters in the lobby of 
their hotel. Visitors could 
check-in comfortably 
after a leisurely breakfast. 
Air Partner also looked 
after registering their 
luggage and ensuring 
that everyone had their 
boarding passes.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 8 9
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’ s review  
The strong results in the year are encouraging and provide 
a solid platform for the year ahead. Within Broking, all 
divisions contributed to the success in the period with 
a standout performance in UK Private Jets, along with a 
robust performance in Freight and a strong performance in 
Commercial Jets. Cabot Aviation, which is included within our 
Commercial Jets reporting, completed a number of transactions 
while also signing up new mandates. Baines Simmons was 
in line with our expectations, taking into account the costs 
related to moving from a private business to being part of 
a fully-listed public limited company, as well as the business 
disruptions which were created through the sale process.
The Group’s underlying profit before tax has increased to 
£4.3m, which is a 64% increase year-on-year and reflects the 
tremendous effort made by all our staff. We made encouraging 
progress on the implementation of our Customer First 
programme. By putting our customers first, we can provide an 
unrivalled and differentiated service, together with a value for 
money proposition, a formula which is good for all of those 
who fly with us as well as for our shareholders.
I am delighted to welcome two new brands to the Air Partner 
Group: Cabot Aviation, a leading remarketer of commercial 
and private aircraft, and Baines Simmons, a world-leading 
consultancy and training business in the aircraft safety 
regulation sector. Both companies have outstanding 
reputations and exceptional expertise that bring new 
capabilities and services to Air Partner. We believe that many 
exciting opportunities lie ahead and that together we are 
in a stronger position than ever before to deliver a range 
of customer-focused aviation solutions. 
 
Customer First
During 2015, Air Partner embarked on our Customer First 
programme, to further grow and extend the differentiation of 
our customer service proposition. Customer First will enable 
Air Partner to provide an unrivalled customer experience 
which in turn will enhance our brand and differentiate 
our brand identity.
Following an extensive customer feedback exercise during 
2014, we identified certain components of our customers’ 
interaction with Air Partner that were inconsistent. The 
programme was put in place to enable us to understand 
these inconsistencies and then to put into place an integrated 
approach to all of the component parts and touch points of 
our customers’ interaction with us. 
By being proactive rather than reactive and by listening to 
our customers’ needs, we can provide an augmented customer 
approach which, alongside developments and improvements 
in our operating processes, should facilitate an improved 
efficiency in our customer service delivery. Customer First will 
be an enabler towards ensuring that our people, our processes 
and our systems work in a true partnership with our customers.
The understanding and building of our customer journeys 
formed much of the Customer First activity during the year, 
with extensive product and country trials implemented 
in September 2015. Phase 1 of the programme has been 
completed with the roll out across the entire broking business. 
We are now beginning to apply Customer First principles into 
Cabot Aviation and Baines Simmons. This involves the forensic 
understanding of customer touch points, through identification 
to retention and how the businesses can leverage the Group’s 
knowledge, infrastructure and learnings from the Customer 
First programme.
Mark Briffa
Chief Executive Officer
“ Putting our customers first is now  
at the heart of everything we do – 
and that’ s how we create value.”
CREATING 
VALUE  
BY PUTTING  
CUSTOMERS 
FIRST 
“ Great service and a good 
swift response given 
the short notice of the 
request. The fully flat bed 
option was exactly what 
our CEO needed so that 
too was a good bonus. 
Thanks very much.”
Customer First 
feedback…
“ My wife and I are huge 
Air Partner fans and 
look forward to our 
next flight.”
“ Can I thank you all for a 
brilliant service today? 
We couldn’t have asked 
for more and wish to 
thank you for your kind 
hospitality and service.”
“ A great team. Long-
suffering, never flinching 
however last-minute 
the passenger request, 
and always on hand 
to comment or help, 
regardless of the time.”
“ Great service, you and 
Ops team attention to 
detail, reaction times and 
going the extra mile is 
fantastic. Thank you.”
“ I always receive excellent 
service from Air Partner. 
The staff are always 
proactive in finding 
aircraft at short notice 
and solving any issues as 
they arise. If a problem 
occurs I am contacted 
and offered a solution, 
rather than just being 
told there is a problem. 
I book with confidence 
when using Air Partner 
and they have not let me 
down, so thank you for 
the great service.” 10 11
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016 Air Partner plc Annual Report 2016
customer gains, the performance in the US has been behind 
our expectations due to a lower number of one-off charters, 
as well as less activity than expected from a key customer.
Cabot Aviation results are included within the Commercial Jets 
division. Cabot Aviation’s main business is acting as agent and 
broker to airlines (flag carriers and regional) and other aircraft 
owners, such as banks, operating lessors, manufacturers and 
insolvency practitioners, to dispose of their surplus aircraft, 
by arranging either a sale or lease of the aircraft. Cabot Aviation 
also advises customers on the acquisition of aircraft and their 
fleet management process. 
The acquisition added significant aircraft sales and dry 
lease expertise which complemented Air Partner’s short 
term wet lease activity. The integration of Cabot Aviation 
has gone well and in November 2015 we announced the 
extension of our remarketing product range to include 
Private Jets. We have also placed our wet lease operations, 
ACMI (Aircraft, Crew, Maintenance and Insurance), within 
the remit of the Cabot Aviation management team.
Cabot Aviation has benefited from being part of the Air Partner 
Group operationally as well as from the financial stability 
which the Group provides. In the second half of the year, 
Cabot Aviation was appointed as exclusive marketing agent by 
China Airlines for two B747-400s and by Kenya Airways for four 
B777-200ERs, two of which have been delivered at the start of 
our new financial year. 
Sadly Malcolm Holt, co-founder of Cabot Aviation, passed 
away in November 2015 after a period of illness. Malcolm 
and his co-founder Tony Whitty started the business in 1998 
and grew it to become one of the leading specialist aircraft 
remarketing agents in the world. It is testament to their 
combined efforts that the business continues to thrive  
under Tony’s sole leadership within the Group.
Our customers are vital to Air Partner’s success and we 
are committed to fully understanding their needs and 
requirements. Our Customer First sales and marketing strategy 
will further enable us to identify and attract new customers 
who, once on board, will benefit from the experience and 
expertise of our most important assets, our people.
Commercial Jets
Gross profit in the period increased by 12% to £14.0m 
and underlying operating profit rose by 10% to £3.0m. 
The increase has largely been driven by strong trading in the 
UK and in Europe, which benefited from a larger tour operating 
programme compared to summer 2014. During the period, 
Air Partner was the beneficiary of a guarantee from one of 
its Tour Operator customers in Southern Europe, and in the 
latter part of the financial year following late payment from 
the customer, Air Partner claimed against the guarantee. 
The claim was disputed by the guarantor and is now subject 
to court action. As a result of the legal dispute, we took a 
£0.4m provision in the second half, pending the outcome. 
Adjusting for this provision, underlying operating profit 
rose by 23% over the year.
Within the UK Commercial Jets team, we increased our focus 
on developing a clearer sales strategy, invested in key talent 
and focused on improving the service levels we provide to our 
customer base. Success stories for the UK include a strong 
contribution in the Oil & Gas and Sports sectors, along with 
continued government work.
Trading in Commercial Jets in Europe has been pleasing, 
benefiting from a larger tour operating programme as well as 
a strong performance in Germany. Austria delivered a stable 
performance while results in Italy were down year-on-year, 
mostly due to government-related work in the previous year 
which has not been repeated this year. Despite some new 
Private Jets
Our Private Jets division comprises two distinct product 
offerings: JetCard, Air Partner’s private jet card programme 
with transparent pricing and no hidden charges, and Ad hoc 
broking, our on-demand charter service.
Through Customer First we have a clear competitive advantage 
and an unrivalled ability to offer a differentiated service 
proposition to our customers. Over time, this should create 
a virtuous circle where we will attract the right customers and 
improve customer loyalty. The principal of our ongoing success 
is both the understanding of the competitive landscape as well 
as our relationship approach to our customers. By listening 
to and understanding our customers’ needs, we are able to 
provide them with solutions tailored to their needs. 
Continued investment in our service quality together with 
our 24-hour, 7-day-a-week office, helps maintain and grow our 
portfolio of customers. Our account management and sales 
teams offer a length and breadth of experience that is the 
envy of the industry. They have always been and remain today 
at the core of everything we do and they are supported with 
products, services, guarantees and a global brand that stands 
out in a noisy and fragmented marketplace.
Furthermore, unlike buying, leasing or fractional ownership, 
all our products offer the opportunity to judge the cost of 
each charter flight as a stand-alone purchase, empowering 
purchasing departments and individuals alike to judge the 
return on investment in each case and utilise the charter 
market as cost-effectively as possible.
 
We are already reaping the benefits of getting closer to our 
customers, with gross profit in the period increasing by 17% 
to £9.4m and underlying operating profit rising threefold 
to £2.4m, an outstanding performance although prior year 
profits were negatively impacted by increased investments 
into JetCard and redundancy costs which we incurred in Europe. 
Nevertheless, the increased profitability was largely driven 
by a very strong performance in the UK, a solid performance 
in Europe but somewhat offset by a weaker performance 
in the US.
Our Ad hoc broking performance has been mixed. Total gross 
profit has increased well but while the performance in the 
UK has been strong, the US and European businesses have 
experienced a decline in gross profit when compared to last 
year, albeit a sharp focus on costs has minimised the impact 
at an operating profit level. We will be addressing this during 
the current year.
For JetCard, there are a number of measurements which 
highlight its strong performance. JetCard cash deposits at 
the year end stood at £16.8m, up on the prior year balance 
of £14.1m, and the number of JetCards stood at 209, an 
increase of 12 year-on-year. JetCard profit is not recognised 
until the customer has flown hours and our focus has been 
to increase the number of cards and to improve the frequency 
of use, which is reflected in the utilisation rate. Utilisation 
has increased by an impressive 33% in the year following 22% 
utilisation in the first half of the year. Overall, this performance 
is a great testament to our flexible card product which was 
verified by Conklin and de Decker, in an independent study 
in April 2015, to be the most flexible product in the market.
Chief Executive’ s review continued
Cabot Aviation highlights:
Joined the Air Partner family in May 2015
A seamless integration into the business
Enhanced proposition into private jets
Successfully secured exclusive mandates
Private Jets highlights:
An outstanding performance in the year, particularly in the UK
Both Ad hoc and JetCard contributing to the success
JetCard cash balances at £14.0m, utilisation increased 33%
Cognisant of the need to improve in Europe and the US
Commercial Jets highlights:
Our largest division delivered a good set of results over 
the year
The UK, our largest Commercial Jets country, had a very 
strong year
Strong contributions from Oil & Gas and Sports
A successful Tour Operating programme in Europe
“ Our unique and deep expertise 
around the world ensures that  
we provide our customers with  
what they want – a tailored, reliable 
and transparent service that takes 
care of every detail.”
