 45 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices
Corporate governance
Chairman’s introduction
Dear Shareholder
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 
to introduce our report on corporate 
governance. We have taken into account 
the main principles in the Code in relation 
to Board leadership and effectiveness, 
accountability, relations with shareholders 
and remuneration. In this report we 
describe our corporate governance 
arrangements in each of these areas 
along with the work which the Board 
and its Committees have undertaken. 
Whilst we are required to make various 
compliance statements we have tried 
to avoid describing these only in 
formal terms.
The Board believes that a robust 
governance framework is integral to the 
delivery of the Group’s strategic and 
financial objectives within its risk appetite. 
Strengthening our corporate governance 
arrangements was a key area of focus 
prior to listing. Our Committees have 
played a critical role in supporting the 
Board in implementing and embedding 
the policies and processes that are 
commensurate with operating in a listed 
and regulated banking environment, and 
I have set out some key highlights later in 
this letter. 
During 2014 the Board was enlarged 
ahead of the IPO and on 29 June 2015 we 
welcomed Robert Sharpe to the Board. 
Robert has significant retail banking 
experience, particularly in mortgages, 
and has further broadened the collective 
experience on the Board. As reported last 
year, John Callender stepped down from 
the Board on 27 February 2015, having 
served as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director since the Group was established. 
I would like to thank John for all his hard 
work and the invaluable contribution he 
made during his tenure. 
Following this period of change, I am 
delighted that we have established 
a strong and well-functioning Board. 
The Executive Directors manage the 
business day-to-day, within the strategic 
direction of the Group shaped by the 
challenge provided by the Non-Executive 
Directors. Discussions are open and 
constructive, and the Directors have a 
healthy respect for each other’s views. 
I meet regularly with the CEO which 
provides an opportunity for ongoing 
dialogue about the business and efficient 
running of the Board. Information about 
Board meeting processes and how we 
spent our time in 2015 is set out on pages 
52 and 53. 
The Board strongly supports the principle 
of boardroom diversity, of which gender 
is one important aspect. However, we do 
not recommend including a measurable 
target for gender representation on 
the Board. All Board appointments 
are subject to a formal, rigorous and 
transparent procedure and are made on 
merit against a defined job specification 
and criteria, and this was formalised into a 
Diversity Policy which we adopted in 2015. 
During the year we conducted an 
internal evaluation of the effectiveness 
of the Board and I am pleased to 
report that overall the results were very 
positive. Further information about the 
evaluation is set out on pages 56 and 57 , 
including agreed priorities which will be 
monitored over 2016 to further enhance 
effectiveness. An update on progress 
against these actions will be provided in 
the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts. 
The Board recognises that an effective 
risk management culture and framework 
is fundamental to the Group’s 
sustainability. Therefore, in 2014 we 
decided to split the combined Audit 
and Risk Committee into separate 
Board Committees. This has allowed the 
Risk Committee to increase the focus 
on enhancing our Risk Management 
Framework and ensuring that risk 
is managed effectively across the 
Group. The promotion of a culture of risk 
awareness is integral to ensuring that our 
strategic objectives are delivered in the 
right way. The Board is very conscious of 
its responsibility to set this “tone from the 
top” consistent with running a prudent 
banking business.
Ahead of our listing, the Remuneration 
Committee spent a significant amount 
of time on developing a Directors’ 
Remuneration Policy that both aligned 
remuneration with the long-term strategy 
of the Group and changing regulatory 
requirements, and that balanced our 
need to attract and retain the high-calibre 
individuals that can deliver our strategy 
with remuneration that is not excessive. 
The Board strongly endorses these 
principles, which reflect our approach 
to remuneration across the Group as 
a whole. 
The Board is committed to maintaining 
and developing further the high 
standards of governance that we have 
already established, and this will be an 
area of continued focus in 2016. We will 
hold our first AGM as a listed company 
on 17 May 2016. I will be joined by all 
my fellow Directors. We look forward to 
meeting you on the day and answering 
any questions you may have. 
Glyn Jones
Chairman
