 03 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices
Strategic report
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s review
2015 highlights
• Listed on the London 
Stock Exchange on 
13 March 2015
• Entered the FTSE 250 
in June 2015 
• Profit before tax up by 
88% to £94.7m
• Earnings per share 
increased 75% to 22.7p
• Return on equity 
increased by 6.2 points 
to 19.7%
• Net lending up by 
28% to £6.1bn
• Record annual loan 
origination of £2.6bn
• Customer deposits up by 
29% to £5.7bn; matching 
growth in lending
• Strong capital position; 
CET1 ratio of 1 1.8%
• 97% of customers 
providing online feedback 
would recommend us to 
friends and family
In our first Annual Report and Accounts 
as a listed company, we are pleased to 
report another year of strong lending 
growth and record levels of profitability. 
The past year has been one of 
tremendous achievement for Aldermore. 
This report provides considerable detail 
about this and about our governance, 
strategy, remuneration, risk and 
financial results.
Another year of 
strong performance
At IPO, we described our journey to 
generate both further scale and strong, 
sustainable returns for our shareholders. 
2015 marks another year of significant 
progress with lending to customers now 
at £6.1 billion and the Group already 
generating what we believe are attractive 
and sustainable returns. Our financial 
performance reflects the successful 
execution of our strategy and the strength 
of our business model. We remain 
confident that we are well positioned for 
further success.
Profit before tax on a reported basis 
increased by 88 per cent to £94.7 million. 
We generated earnings per share of 
22.7 pence, up by 75 per cent compared 
with 2014 and our return on equity 
increased by 6.2 per cent to 19.7 per cent.
Once again, we lent more than ever to 
UK SMEs, homeowners and landlords. 
Driven by record organic origination of 
£2.6 billion, net loans increased by 28 per 
cent to £6.1 billion. Although marginally 
below our target, this represents a strong 
performance supported by net loan 
growth in SME Commercial Mortgages 
of 50 per cent, Residential Mortgages of 
42 per cent, Asset Finance of 29 per cent 
and Buy-to-Let of 18 per cent. 
We also continue to benefit from 
a diversified funding base with our 
innovative, online savings franchise 
at its core. Matching the increase in 
our lending to customers, we have 
grown deposits by 29 per cent to reach 
£5.7 billion. Once again, within this, our 
SME deposits business has delivered 
excellent growth, with total balances of 
£1.4 billion up by 37 per cent in the year, 
and forms a key plank of our ongoing 
diversification strategy.
Across the business, we now support 
around 195,000 customers who we 
continue to impress, with 97 per cent of 
customers who posted feedback via our 
website saying they would recommend us 
to friends and family. Our Net Promoter 
Score, which measures customer loyalty, 
is 22, remains consistently strong and well 
above the UK banking industry average 
of 2.
Strong balance sheet 
Through our IPO, we built our capital 
position to ensure that we continue 
to remain well ahead of our minimum 
regulatory requirements as we fund the 
Group’s growth. Our fully loaded CRD IV 
CET1 ratio at 11.8 per cent remains ahead 
of both regulatory requirements and our 
target of around 11 per cent.
Our loan to deposit ratio remained 
broadly stable at 107 per cent as we 
continue to manage the balance between 
wholesale and deposit funding to drive 
an efficient cost of funds. Our funding is 
very well diversified by type and by size of 
individual depositor. Strategic report
04 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
Aldermore 2015 share price performance
*
160
170
150
140
130
120
110
100
Mar
* Indexed to 100
Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Rigorous focus on prudent 
risk management
Prudent risk management is central to 
our operations and 2015 saw further 
ongoing enhancements.
Our approach to credit is prudent. 
The vast majority of our loans are well 
secured with tangible collateral and 
affordability tests applied on origination 
where applicable, with the portfolio 
being regularly stress tested thereafter. 
Albeit in a relatively benign interest rate 
environment, we have experienced low 
levels of arrears and our cost of risk has 
fallen to 19 basis points in 2015. Within our 
chosen lending lines, we avoid any undue 
concentration risks including by size of 
borrower, geography and industry. 
We also overhauled our Risk Management 
Framework to respond to the increasing 
scale and sophistication of our business 
and to meet best practice industry and 
regulatory standards. We considerably 
expanded our risk management 
resources in 2015 following an earlier 
investment in 2014.
Financial crime and cyber security is a 
growing threat in today’s world. In 2015, 
we invested significantly to improve our 
defences and will continue to do so in the 
coming year.
Continued investment 
and innovation 
To remain competitive and to ensure 
sustainability, we are continuously 
investing in our core systems and 
our digital capabilities. In 2015, we 
further enhanced our core systems to 
expand capacity, improve functionality, 
efficiencies and control. We delivered 
a new asset and liability management 
system which enhances our dynamic 
modelling capability enabling us to more 
efficiently manage liquidity and interest 
rate risk. We initiated the upgrading of 
our Asset Finance back office and our 
Mortgages platforms, investments which 
continue into 2016. Across the Group, we 
outsourced our IT infrastructure support 
to enhance our round the clock support 
capability and allow our strengthened 
internal team to focus on delivering our 
technology strategy to enhance our 
enterprise architecture, security and 
digital capability.
We paved the way for further 
transparency in the industry when, three 
years ago, we became the first bank in 
the UK to allow customers to rate and 
review our services online. In 2015, we 
continued to set standards by launching 
our SME Rate Checker tool, which enables 
business owners to check the rates of over 
90 savings institutions to see the current 
rate of interest being earned on their 
current or business savings account. 
A successful IPO
As noted above, we listed Aldermore in 
March 2015. Just over three months later, 
we were delighted to be admitted to the 
FTSE 250. 
The listing allowed us to raise gross 
primary capital of £75 million to ensure 
that we continue to remain well ahead of 
our minimum regulatory requirements 
as we fund the Group’s growth. 
Going forward, as we build further scale, 
retained profits will fund our incremental 
CET1 requirements organically. As we said 
at the time of the IPO, we will consider 
paying an initial dividend from 2017 taking 
into account the growth opportunities 
available to the Company at the time 
and the associated capital requirements. 
This continues to be our intention.
The IPO also enabled our principal 
shareholders, collectively AnaCap 
Financial Partners LP , AnaCap Financial 
Partners II, LP , AnaCap Derby Co-
investment (No.1) LP and AnaCap Derby 
Co-investment (No.2) LP , to reduce their 
equity interest in Aldermore to 53 per 
cent. As is natural for private equity, 
our principal shareholders continued 
the transition of Aldermore to public 
ownership and this interest was further 
reduced to 40 per cent in September 
2015. The liquidity in our stock, therefore, 
has improved as a result.
An evolving 
regulatory landscape
The chart on the left shows the movement 
in the Aldermore share price, indexed to 
100, from our listing in March until the end 
of 2015. As can be seen, our share price 
performed strongly in the initial months 
after IPO but since then has experienced 
significant volatility. In the period from 
float to the end of the year, our share price 
rose from 192p at the pricing of our IPO to 
close at 231.5p on 31 December, having 
closed as high as 316p during July. 
As can be seen in the chart overleaf, the 
volatility in our share price and across 
the wider financial markets continued 
throughout the first two months of 2016. 
However, more recently, we seen some 
recovery with the share price closing at 
224.3p on 4 March 2016. 05 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report Corporate governance Remuneration Risk management Financial statements Appendices
The disconnect between the continued 
strong financial and operational 
performance of the business, which 
has delivered a 75 per cent increase in 
EPS during 2015, and the share price 
performance is clear. Your Board of 
Directors is disappointed by the impact 
on shareholder value of the share price 
movement and so it is appropriate 
to consider the main causes and our 
perspective on these.
Having discussed this at length with our 
major shareholders and advisers, we 
believe that this disconnect comes down 
to the market’s changing perception of 
the business risk to our future growth 
prospects. Broadly speaking, there are 
two major themes at play: the evolving 
regulatory landscape in which we operate 
and global financial markets’ volatility 
in 2016.
Firstly, the impact of the following 
regulatory announcements made in the 
second half of 2015:
• A new corporation tax surcharge of 
8 per cent on all UK banking profits 
above £25 million applicable from 
1 January 2016
• Measures by the UK Government 
to dampen the buy-to-let market by 
restricting relief on mortgage interest 
payments to the basic rate of income 
tax from 2017 and by adding an extra 
3 per cent stamp duty on buy-to-let 
and second home purchases from 
April 2016
• Possible additional powers to be 
granted to the Financial Policy 
Committee of the Bank of England to 
further dampen buy-to-let by placing 
limits on loan-to-value ratios and 
interest coverage ratios
• A Basel Committee consultation paper 
that proposes raising standardised risk 
weightings on buy-to-let mortgages 
which is expected to be effective from 
2019 if agreed upon
The bank surcharge will impact our 
returns and, as a result, we now believe 
our percentage return on equity will be in 
the high-teens going forward. However, 
buy-to-let remains a key element of UK 
housing stock with continuing demand 
expected to be driven by factors 
including net migration into the UK, the 
reduced availability of social housing and 
affordability pressures on potential owner 
occupiers. We represent a small part of 
the overall market and believe that this 
lending segment remains attractive from 
both a growth and return perspective. 
The Basel Committee proposals are 
still only at a consultation stage but we 
have already started work to understand 
the requirements to transition to an 
IRB approach and use our own internal 
credit models rather than standardised 
risk weightings. 
The second theme has arisen in the 
early part of 2016 and hit the entire 
European banking sector without 
discrimination. Bank share prices were 
subject to increased volatility as a result 
of heightened fears about slowing 
global growth and the limited policy 
responses available to address this, 
with a particular concern about the use 
of negative interest rates that would 
hurt bank margins. As the UK economy 
appears to be in better shape than most 
other developed economies, (albeit with 
Brexit raising uncertainties), Aldermore, 
as a robust UK-focused business, should 
be somewhat insulated from these 
concerns. Certainly, at present, we are 
not seeing any loss of confidence in our 
customer base.
In conclusion, we continue to focus on 
building Aldermore’s track record of 
delivery and remain confident of our 
ability to deliver continued nominal net 
loan growth in line with recent run rates 
and strong, sustainable returns. 
A differentiated and 
diversified strategy
Aldermore is a diversified specialist lender 
focused on segments of large, growing 
markets which are under- or poorly served 
by the wider market and which provide 
numerous opportunities to deliver strong 
profitable growth. Our business model 
gives us significant operational leverage 
as we distribute primarily via specialist 
broker intermediaries, rather than through 
a costly branch network, and we have 
modern, scaleable systems and digital 
capability. As we have grown in size, our 
income growth is exceeding our cost 
growth and we are making good progress 
towards our cost/income ratio target of 
less than 40 per cent by the end of 2017 .
Aldermore 2016 share price performance v FTSE 350 Banks Index*
100
75
Aldermore FTSE 350 Banks
Jan 2016 Feb 2016 Mar 2016
* Indexed to 100 06 Aldermore Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Strategic report
Chairman’s and Chief Executive Officer’s review
continued
1
 BDRC Continental, SME Finance Monitor Q3 2015.
We have a clear strategy for delivering 
further profitable growth based on the 
following high level drivers:
• We have a diversified lending 
portfolio which gives us multiple 
options for growth. As our 2015 results 
demonstrate, we are not reliant on any 
one business
• We have small shares of our 
addressable markets which provides 
ample opportunity for growth as 
we drive incremental increases in 
market share
• We continued to extend our 
distribution reach and mix, deepening 
relationships with existing brokers, 
establishing new relationships and, 
in tandem, developing our direct 
distribution capability 
• We continue to invest in technology to 
improve our customers’ experience of 
doing business with us and our ability to 
innovate, which helps us to both attract 
new customers and retain existing ones
• We have proven our ability to leverage 
our specialist underwriting capability 
into adjacent market segments, for 
example IT and telephony assets in 
Asset Finance and Bridging loans 
in Mortgages.
These factors taken together are hugely 
supportive of our future growth potential 
and we are confident therefore that this 
business will continue to deliver nominal 
net loan growth in line with recent 
run rates. 
Corporate governance
As a public company and regulated 
banking business, we strongly believe 
that effective corporate governance is 
fundamental to our business success. 
We have been fully compliant with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 
from the date of our listing. Your Board of 
Directors has ensured that best practice 
governance standards have been fully 
embedded. Towards the end of 2015, we 
undertook a Board effectiveness review, 
overseen by our Senior Independent 
Director and Company Secretary, to 
validate our effectiveness.
In June 2015, we further strengthened the 
Board with the appointment of Robert 
Sharpe as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director and member of the Risk and 
Audit Committees. Robert brings a 
wealth of experience in retail banking with 
a particular focus on mortgage lending 
and, as such, he complements the broad 
expertise we are able to draw upon as 
a Board.
We would particularly like to thank Mark 
Stephens, Deputy CEO and Group 
Commercial Director, who left during 
2015, for his enormous contribution to 
Aldermore. We had strong succession 
plans in place and Mark’s departure saw 
us welcome Carl D’Ammassa, as Group 
Managing Director of Business Finance, 
and Charles Haresnape, as Group 
Managing Director of Mortgages, to the 
Executive Committee. 
Customers and communities
Our customers and communities are key 
to our success and our strong relationship 
with these groups is discussed in detail on 
page 22.
We recognise that we have a 
responsibility to play our part in the UK’s 
financial services community, which 
includes taking part in Government 
schemes to support SMEs, homeowners 
and savers. We continue to be one of the 
most active lenders in the Funding for 
Lending Scheme (FLS) and were pleased 
to be the third largest net lender to SMEs 
under FLS in 2015. 
Our support for the Help to Buy scheme 
also goes back several years. We were 
one of the first lenders to take part in the 
Government’s Help to Buy scheme and 
the first to allow borrowers to remortgage 
onto Help to Buy products. In late 
2015, we were pleased to be one of the 
first organisations to offer the Help to 
Buy: ISA.
Outlook
As described earlier, the global 
economy has been full of gloomy news 
in the first two months of 2016. The UK 
economy, however, looks to be one of 
the more resilient developed economies 
notwithstanding that more recently, the 
Brexit in/out debate and referendum 
is introducing risk and uncertainty and 
we have seen sterling under pressure 
as a result. The UK also continues to 
experience a period of stable, low interest 
rates with current market expectations for 
the first interest rate rise now pushed out 
to 2018.
We are a purely UK-focused bank and 
our customer base remains positive. 
SME confidence continues to be resilient, 
with recent surveys showing that almost 
half of SMEs intend to grow in 2016
1
. 
As discussed, we believe underlying 
demand in buy-to-let will remain 
resilient to regulatory changes and in 
the residential mortgages market, the 
UK Government is supporting various 
initiatives to encourage first time buyers 
which should stimulate further growth in 
this segment.
Looking forward to 2016, there are risks 
and uncertainties that will challenge 
us, but we have a proven strategy and 
business model and a capacity to be fast 
and agile, so we are confident that we will 
continue to deliver further growth and 
increasing profitability.
We would like to thank our staff for 
their dedication and commitment, our 
customers for their valued business 
and our shareholders for their 
ongoing support.
Glyn Jones
Chairman
Phillip Monks
Chief Executive Officer
