 accesso Technology Group plc           
6 
 
Chief executive officer’s report  
 
Operational Review 
 
At the heart of the accesso strategy is a plan to deliver sustainable growth through both organic and acquisitive means.  In this 
period we have delivered convincingly on this plan.   
 
Operationally, it has been another exciting year for our team and we have made good progress in each of our focus areas for 
growth. As we always set out to do, we have delivered combined wins for queuing and ticketing offerings. This year, we acquired 
a business which propels us into the position of being one of the world’s largest ticketing vendors.  
 
The group continues to expand its capabilities and expertise. We are pushing technological boundaries, such as the pursuit of a 
100% queueless attraction; we are targeting ticketing, still clear in our belief that strength here at the very start of a guest’s 
journey opens up new routes to growth for our firm; and we are making good on the promise of our most recent acquisitions.  
What we have achieved this year is the consolidation of a powerful proposition.  
 
accesso LoQueue 
 
During the year we have seen pleasing growth in queuing revenues in general and per guest, largely reflecting migration to 
premium service levels. Attendance in Europe has been strong against a backdrop of flat or declining attendance in the US – 
largely as a result of very poor weather early in the season.  
 
Our innovative queuing technologies continue to both facilitate and help drive increasingly mobile-centric consumer activity in 
the leisure industry. This trend, together with the centrality of queuing to the quality of customer experience means our signature 
queuing products remain a vital aspect of the theme park experience for many of our clients and their guests. 
 
Last year we signaled our intentions to forge deeper ties with attractions in the important Asian market. This year we delivered. 
In the first half, we signed the MOU for first the Qsmart installation in Asia at The Movie Animation Park Studios in Ipoh, Malaysia, 
and in the second half we signed a three year partnership agreement with Vision Works Global to help facilitate accesso’s 
expansion in the fast–growing South Korean theme park market. These steps have not only been exciting for our accesso LoQueue 
technology, but also for the group as we expand our foothold in Asia. 
 
We have also increased our stickiness with a number of important clients during the year, successfully renewing and expanding 
existing agreements with Blackpool Pleasure Beach, Dreamworld in Australia and Heide Park in Germany. At LEGOLAND Windsor 
Resort, we not only extended our agreement for the installation of Qbot SM for a further three years, but also expanded it by 
deploying our Qsmart system in the park. 
 
During the year we also continued to invest in our queuing technology platforms.  We have recently launched a second generation 
of our Qband sm and Qband validator sm, which offer greater utility to guests and well as reducing installation costs and timescales.  
Elsewhere, the pervasive nature of smartphone ownership means that for the first time we are able to consider systems where 
100% of the population of a park (rather than a subset) is able to queue virtually. Working with a major operating group, we have 
been able to beta test this technology in a significant theme park during the period and expect these successful trials to continue 
in 2015.   
 
accesso Passport 
 
The group’s ticketing, mobile and eCommerce solutions have continued to prove their market-leading strength.  
 
We have been instrumental in helping our clients capitalise on the consumer shift towards mobile ticket purchasing, where 
volumes have increased by over 400% this year.  Around 50% of all the visits to our customers’ websites now start on a mobile 
device, either tablet or smartphone, so being able to engage effectively on these platforms has become increasingly important. 
During the year we were delighted to be able to launch the 5th version of our Shopland ecommerce store. The new system has 
been a significant development focus and delivers a fully responsive, seamless buying experience across any device be it desktop, 
a tablet or a smartphone. Importantly it means that anything that can be bought from your desktop machine can now be bought 
from your smartphone including entrance tickets, season passes, memberships, timed entry tickets or even meals and access to 
ancillary attractions. This ability to drive extra revenue for our clients remains key to our entire ethos and is the common thread 
that runs through all our operations.  
  accesso Technology Group plc           
7 
 
Chief executive officer’s report (continued) 
 
Moreover, the exciting thing about this process is that we know it works, and so do our customers. Our early data shows that 
25% of purchasers on our customers’ ticketing sites were not planning to buy tickets when they first visited the website. 
 
A key part of our strategy is to leverage customer relationships and footprint geographically and this year we were able to bring 
our accesso Passport platform to a European audience for the first time.  We achieved a significant milestone in the signing of a 
three year Master Service Agreement with Merlin Entertainments plc, also a LoQueue customer, beginning with a trial installation 
at the Thorpe Park Resort. This success was followed by accesso’s first major ticketing win in Europe with a three year agreement 
with Compagnie des Alpes (“CdA”) to provide the accesso Passport eCommerce solution at five CdA parks in Belgium and Holland.  
 
The group’s European expansion has helped to deliver a part of the 31.6% increase in accesso Passport volumes we have recorded 
in the year.  
 
We also continued to expand existing established relationships, adding two further Wet ‘n’ Wild sites to the nine already served 
following the agreement with Premier Parks, LLC in 2013. Further contract wins included an extension of the trial with Merlin 
Entertainments adding SEA LIFE Birmingham to the existing Thorpe Park Resort trial, a three year agreement with Ripley’s 
Entertainment for Ripley’s Aquarium of Canada, and a renewed agreement with Palace Entertainments for fourteen of its venues 
over a further three years.  
 
Siriusware 
 
During the period Siriusware continued to successfully diversify beyond its ski industry base, adding twenty-three new clients 
primarily in the cultural sector. We were also able to take significant strides toward the integration of Siriusware and accesso – 
both technically and operationally and it has been very pleasing to see the respective teams work and build momentum together.   
 
Early manifestations of this integration have been the cross-selling opportunities emerging with other accesso products, as 
Ripley’s Aquarium and Holiday World & Splashin’ Safari became the first two customers to utilise an integrated Siriusware / 
accesso Passport solution to very positive effect. These deals are another example of our belief that increased client stickiness 
can be driven by a complementary portfolio of solutions. 
 
Of the new clients secured in the period, many represent the cultural sector and this has continued post period-end.   Siriusware 
is proving itself an important vehicle for our strategic expansion into the wider leisure space, delivering new business wins and 
significantly expanding our target addressable markets.  Of the many wins, The De Young and Legion of Honor Museums in San 
Francisco, The National Aquarium in Baltimore, four new iFly indoor sky diving venues and the Whitney Museum of American Art 
represent a good cross section.  
 
The acquisition has also provided a further recurring revenue stream to the group as just under half of total Siriusware revenues 
were derived from recurring maintenance and support fees.  
 
Moving confidently along our growth path 
 
In November, we announced the acquisition of VisionOne Worldwide Ltd. Their ShoWare platform brings us another completely 
differentiated and compelling ticketing product to add to our portfolio. It not only further extends the Group’s sales reach into 
new adjacent verticals within the leisure sector, but provides access to operators of “assigned seat” venues like theatres and 
sports stadium as well as general admission attractions like theme parks and zoos. Moreover, the ShoWare platform gives our 
customers the online tools to be able to build and manage their own e-Commerce stores rather than the full service outsource 
model we use to take our accesso Passport platform to market.  
 
ShoWare, like accesso Passport, is a cloud based solution and utilises a SaaS business model where revenues come from a small 
fixed fee or percentage of every ticket we sell.  We also have a number of successful resellers, particularly in Latin America, who 
utilise ShoWare as a white label platform for their own ticketing businesses.  Finally, the ShoWare team offer considerable 
experience of running portals, selling aggregated content from across a number of venues direct to consumer.   
 
Research indicates that the addition of this technology platform and sector expertise has increased the size of the accesso 
addressable market opportunity from $750m of annual revenues to $2.5b per annum. 
 
  accesso Technology Group plc           
8 
 
Chief executive officer’s report (continued) 
 
Protecting our position and maintaining our lead 
 
With ticketing very firmly now at the core of everything we do, many new routes have opened for us to continue growing. Driven 
by our belief that the ticket sits at the heart of the digital guest journey, we remain focused on organic opportunities for 
expansion, both in existing and new customers and drive further benefits from the wider Group.  
 
As we continue to invest in our technology we simultaneously remain committed both to the protection of our existing technology 
portfolio as well as extending that where appropriate. During the period we both acquired additional patents and applied to 
protect new, novel ideas and continue to explore overall licensing opportunities. 
 
We have also continued to evolve and develop our in-park retail businesses, where theme park patrons engage with our teams 
to purchase queuing products to add to their day at the attraction. In 2014 we were able to invest in the refurbishment of a 
number of our larger retail locations, remodeling and refreshing the guest experience. Where we made these changes, both to 
the physical environment of the sales locations and to the pricing strategy, we saw excellent returns and as a result we go into 
the 2015 season with a number of further initiatives in place.   
 
Asia moves in to focus 
 
Expanding our reach into markets where we do not currently operate continues to be an important part of our strategy.  
During the year we secured a partnership with Vision Works Global. This agreement helps to build our presence in the South 
Korean theme park market. Vision Works Global provides consulting, deal structuring and brokering, and new business 
development for a range of location-based entertainment projects in South Korea and we hope that their extensive professional 
contacts will enable accesso to expand our LoQueue solution into the country’s rapidly evolving attractions industry.  
 
In addition we also signed up our first customer for Qsmart at the Movie Animation Park Studios which is under construction in 
Ipoh, Malaysia.  
 
Encouragingly our sales pipeline also includes a number of projects where existing European and North American customers are 
in discussions with us about deploying our systems to new projects they are planning in the region.  
 
Financial Review 
 
As our Chairman has stated, the last twelve months have seen accesso make excellent, profitable progress.  We have finished the 
year ahead of our expectations and for the seventh consecutive year we have posted record results. 
 
Change in presentation currency 
 
As we reported with our 2014 H1 results, we have made a change to our presentation currency, from Sterling to US Dollars, on 1 
January 2014, which the Board considered more closely aligned with the global operations of the group. Comparative information 
has been restated in USD in accordance with the guidance in IAS 21. Further details relating to the specifics of the retranslation 
are included in the notes to this statement. 
 
The geographic spread of our business has, yet again, proven its benefit during the year. Year-on-year changes in visitor numbers 
at our customers’ venues once again showed a contrasting picture, depending upon which side of the Atlantic those visits took 
place. Nevertheless, our ability to balance these contrasting pictures thanks to our increasingly diversified portfolio of technology 
services lends resilience to our business.  
 
In the first half, for example, poor weather in the United States impacted attendance in that market, with attendance rates falling 
significantly and the majority of operators, despite a strong summer, reported 2014 attendances that were down on 2013. 
Despite this backdrop average revenues per LoQueue guest in North America actually grew by 4.7%. This is a positive nod to our 
technologies, to the benefits they bring to our customers, and to the willingness of guests to trade money for a better experience.  
In contrast, attendance in Europe and the rest of the world was strong, with attendances growing by 4% alongside a very strong 
18% increase in average guest revenues. This was aided in part by good weather, but is also a reflection of a great deal of effort 
in improving our retail engagement with customers, together with a more sophisticated approach to pricing.  When these 
numbers are combined, our LoQueue business grew revenues per guest by 6.1% despite an overall drop in guest numbers. 
  accesso Technology Group plc           
9 
 
Chief executive officer’s report (continued) 
 
Adjusted operating profit, which the board considers a key underlying metric, for the 12 months ended 31 December 2014 was 
$8.7m and this equates to 42.6% growth when compared to the 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 and 20.8% ahead of 
the 12 month pro-forma period ended 31 December 2013 (the “2013 pro-forma period”). At the top line, group revenues for the 
period increased by 22.3% to $75.1m (2013 pro-forma: $60.3m).  
 
Profit before tax at $5.1m was 59.4% up on the 14 month period ended 31 December 2013 but 1.9% below the 2013 pro-forma 
period primarily due to expected increases from acquisition related expenses in the form of amortization of acquired intangibles 
and acquisition and refinancing costs. 
 
The positive picture these results show highlights the momentum now unfolding within our business.  As we continue to expand 
across multiple geographies, increase our product and service offering and make the most of our newest acquisition, VisionOne 
and its ShoWare platform, I feel confident that this momentum will continue to build.  The timing of this acquisition means that 
these results include no benefit from that business or the excellent customer base it brings.  Having won 22 new customer 
mandates since coming under our ownership, we are very pleased with the contribution it has already made.  
 
Cash Flow and debt  
 
As previously announced in November, to facilitate the VisionOne acquisition, the Group extended its banking facility with Lloyds 
Bank. The extended facility allows the Group to draw down up to $29m at a rate of 1.75% above LIBOR on drawn funds and at a 
rate of 0.7% on uncommitted funds.  The total available for drawdown is subject to reductions of $7.0m on 1 November 2015 
and $14.0m on 1 November 2016 and terminates on 31 December 2017.   
 
The Extended Facility, which is US dollar denominated, was secured on accesso’s assets and intellectual property in the US and 
UK: an indication of the value of the accesso technology in the market and the confidence the finance community has in the 
accesso business.  
 
Free cash flow was $5.8m and was up 16% on the 2013 pro-forma period. Our closing net debt balance of $14.3m accounts for 
the funds discharged in connection with the acquisition was ahead of our expectations and the board believes that the company 
is in a strong financial position at the period end, with significant headroom to our debt facility.  
 
Tax 
 
Our effective tax rate in 2013 (11.9%) was unusually low due to non-recurring, non-UK tax deductions for share options exercised 
in the period. The effective rate in 2014 of 26.2% benefitted by 4.9% due to prior year R&D tax credit claims. The higher underlying 
rate is representative of the fact that the majority of the Group’s profits are subject to tax regimes outside of the UK, the tax 
treatment of acquisition amortisation and share based payments where the majority of these expenses are not allowable for tax.   
The Group continues to review and implement opportunities for maintaining or lowering its effective rate.  
Advisors 
 
In May 2014, we were pleased to confirm the appointment of Numis Securities Limited as joint broker and financial adviser 
alongside Canaccord Genuity who continue to act as the Company’s NOMAD, joint broker and financial adviser. 
 
Dividend 
 
The Board maintains its view that the payment of a dividend is unlikely in the short to medium term with cash better invested in 
product development, complementary M&A as demonstrated by the most recent acquisitions and other growth focused 
investment opportunities.  
 
IP Protection 
 
During the period we received the first revenues from licensing one of our patent families and although immaterial at this stage, 
we have now selected a legal partner to lead us in exploring opportunities to extend such licensing opportunities. This is not 
expected to have any significant impact on our expenditure. 
  accesso Technology Group plc           
10 
 
Chief executive officer’s report (continued) 
 
Summary and Outlook for 2015 
 
Early in 2015, new business momentum has continued. Our sales pipeline continues to expand and convert and we have seen 
wins across our portfolio.  Operationally we continue to integrate our acquisitions under the leadership of my colleague Steve 
Brown who assumed the role of Group COO in January 2015.  
 
Looking ahead, I have great confidence in our prospects for 2015.  We have the right team; we have a unique and sector defining 
offering as well as the relationships and ambition to make us the leading and most innovative supplier of technology solutions to 
the leisure, attractions and cultural markets.   
 
We have started the year strongly, and the Board believes that accesso is well positioned to perform excellently over the coming 
months.   
 
 
Tom Burnet 
Chief Executive Officer 
  
