 accesso Technology Group plc           
5 
 
Chairman’s Report 
 
Profitable endeavours 
 
Today’s results show another profitable period of growth for accesso. Operational change – be that in the shape of the 
acquisitions we have made or the product updates we have released – is not only having a positive impact on our financial results, 
but also helping us to further cement our market position. We have made great strides on our journey to become the leading 
and most innovative supplier of revenue generating technology solutions to the leisure, entertainment and cultural markets. Our 
reputation, already strong, is yet stronger still.  As ever, progress of this kind would not be possible without the passion and 
commitment displayed by our teams around the world. 
 
The group has delivered a strong financial performance this year. We have seen good organic growth, delivered by capitalizing 
on further cross selling opportunities, deepening our relationships with existing clients, and by building a business that takes, as 
its starting point, the improvement of customer experience whether that be in a theme-park, ski resort, museum, sports stadium 
or other leisure venue. 
 
Growth has also come from green field areas.  We have won new standalone mandates across each area of our businesses, from 
queuing to ticketing. These wins have served to further strengthen our brand, enlarge our market opportunity and demonstrate 
that the strategy we are pursuing is the right one. 
 
We have also delivered on a number of important operational and strategic milestones, with joint wins for our ticketing and 
queuing products, as well as extending and deepening relationships with a number of the very largest operators in our space. 
Such wins send a clear signal to other potential customers about the increasingly strategic nature and value of our solutions. 
 
Perhaps the strongest signal of our strength, however, is the success our customers have achieved this year: success in which we 
have played a key role.  Many of our customers have been able to report record operating seasons and in many cases, our 
technology has played an important role in helping them to achieve this growth - proof of the value of our solutions and of the 
relevance of our largely transactional revenue models.   
 
Our team 
 
During the period, the accesso team has continued to work closely together as we continue to integrate our acquisitions.  Their 
dedication and professionalism has contributed to this year’s excellent performance.  I thank all of our colleagues for their hard 
work.  They are our greatest asset. 
 
Advancing our ticketing ambitions 
 
I have already referenced the important role that acquisitions have played in moving us closer to our strategic goals.  As in 
previous years, this year we have added to our capabilities – namely in our acquisition of VisionOne which we announced in 
November. VisionOne is an excellent company, and its ShoWare product is one of the world’s leaders in the cloud based Software-
as-a-Service (SaaS) ticket sales and distribution solution space for assigned seat operators. The combination of ShoWare, accesso 
Passport and Siriusware creates a powerful position in the ticketing market globally and ensures that for the first time we have 
the capability to address the ticketing needs of any type of venue.   
 
In summary, this progress has helped transform accesso into one of the world’s largest SaaS ticketing vendors alongside our 
market leading position in SaaS virtual queuing solutions. This is an important milestone that we believe will help us to further 
strengthen our market position and our relevance to the customers we serve.  
 
Looking ahead 
 
The work we have done in 2014 to strengthen our position, to invigorate our offering and to deepen our relationships with key 
operators sets us up excellently for further progress in 2015.  The significant majority of our revenue is now transactional, long-
term, recurring and growing. With that in mind, and on the basis of the pipeline of opportunity we see ahead, I look forward to 
2015 with a considerable degree of confidence.  
 
John Weston 
Non-Executive Chairman 
 
