 I am pleased to be able to report another
successful year for Alliance & Leicester plc.
In a year when we celebrated 150 years 
of serving customers, the Group made
excellent progress in developing our
business. That progress is reﬂected in our
ﬁnancial results, in the growth we have
seen in sales and revenues, and in the
increasing optimism amongst
commentators about our future.
Financial Results
Pre-tax proﬁt in 2002 was £468m, up 
18% on 2001. Basic earnings per share
were up 21% to 68.0p. The Board has
proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 26.9p, 
making a total dividend of 39.9p, a 10%
increase on the equivalent ﬁgure for 2001.
Board and Management
In June 2002, Richard Pym became Group 
Chief Executive. Richard has been with the
Group since 1992 and his leadership and
focus have made, and will continue to make,
a tremendous difference to the performance
of the Group. I very much enjoy working
with Richard and, on behalf of the Group
Board, I thank him for his efforts.
Also in June, Chris Rhodes was appointed
to the Group Board as Operations Director.
Chris has been at the forefront of a number
of business developments in the Group,
including our strategic partnerships with
MBNA and Legal & General, as well as
leading a variety of signiﬁcant systems 
and process improvements which are
fundamental to delivering our strategy.
2 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement
John Windeler, Chairman 3 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2002
In September, Richard Banks became
responsible, as Wholesale Banking Director,
for the Group’s Commercial Banking and
Treasury businesses. David Bennett remains
our Group Finance Director, and details of
all executive directors’ responsibilities can
be found on pages 26 and 27 of the
Report & Accounts.
Upon Richard Pym’s appointment, I reverted
to being non-executive Chairman of the
Group. I would like to thank the Board and
all the management of Alliance & Leicester
for the support given to me during my
period as executive chairman.
Business Performance
Each of the Group’s business sectors had a
successful 2002, as is highlighted elsewhere
in this Report. These results reﬂect the
excellent work of the executive team,
under Richard Pym’s leadership, as well 
as the dedication and ability of our staff. 
Outlook
Alliance & Leicester is widely regarded as
being a low-risk bank. We have worked
hard to gain and maintain that reputation,
consistently pursuing prudent lending
criteria in each of our markets, and we 
will continue to do so.
The outlook for the UK economy, and the
housing market in particular, is uncertain
for 2003. We are conﬁdent, however, 
that if the UK economy broadly follows 
the path suggested by consensus forecasts,
then we will be able to hit our targets 
and continue to deliver shareholder returns
that compare well with our peer group. 
We are also conﬁdent that, should
economic conditions prove to be
signiﬁcantly tougher than current forecasts
suggest, we are better positioned than
many of our competitors to ride out any
economic turbulence – again to the beneﬁt
of our shareholders. We are growing
revenues and controlling costs successfully,
is at the heart of Alliance & Leicester’s
business activities. We believe that we 
have an important role to play in our 
local communities, by being a responsible
employer and through charitable giving
and staff volunteering. We have recently
published our ﬁrst Corporate Social
Responsibility Report and we have
signiﬁcantly increased our contribution to
our local communities through donations,
gifts-in-kind and staff volunteering in 2002.
The Future
In July 2000 we set out a vision for Alliance
& Leicester, to become “the most customer
focused ﬁnancial services provider in the
UK – bar none”. The Group continues to
make very positive progress towards meeting
that vision, and the ﬁnancial beneﬁts are
shown in our 2002 results. The Board has
now approved further targets for the
Group, taking us through 2004, and
achievement of those targets will further
demonstrate the value of our strategy for
our shareholders.
By maintaining our focus on driving real
value, on simpliﬁcation and on excellent
customer service, I am conﬁdent that 
2003 will be another successful year 
for the Group.
John R. Windeler, Chairman
but that is not, and nor will it be, at the
expense of asset quality standards.
Corporate Social Responsibility
As well as achieving shareholder value from
our business performance, we also recognise
the wider impact we have on all our
stakeholders. Corporate social responsibility
“During 2002 the Group made
excellent progress in implementing
our customer focused strategy.”
John R. Windeler, Chairman
