 Chairman’s Statement
2 Alliance & Leicester
I am pleased to be able to report that
Alliance & Leicester plc again had a
successful year, achieving our strategic
targets in a challenging environment.
Financial Results
Pre-tax operating proﬁt was up 6% to
£556m in 2004. Pre-tax proﬁt was £608m,
including the £52m pre-tax proﬁt on the
sale of our merchant acquisition business,
up 16% on 2003. Basic underlying earnings
per share, which excludes the proﬁts from
the sale of our merchant acquisition business,
were up 12% to 88.2p. The Board has
proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 32.6p, making
a total dividend of 48.3p, a 10% increase
on the equivalent ﬁgure for 2003.
Alliance & Leicester is delivering sustainable
long term shareholder value. Since July
2000, when we launched our strategy,
Alliance & Leicester shareholders have
received a total shareholder return of over
120%, compared to minus 15% in the
FTSE 100 index and plus 44% for the
banking sector as a whole.
Strategy
Our strategy continues to deliver
shareholder value. 
The market is evolving in a way that gives
us competitive advantage. As the needs
and preferences of both personal and
commercial customers change, so we 
are changing with them. Our strategy 
of building a ‘direct bank with a high 
street presence’ and our proven skills in
direct channels enable us to evolve in 
a way that accommodates the changing
needs of customers.
Our brand values of offering better value
products, developing straightforward
processes, providing friendly and
approachable customer service, and
rewarding customers who buy more from 
us has enabled us to achieve franchise
growth in our Core 4 retail products. 
We have achieved increased market 
shares in current account openings, 
new personal loans and net mortgage
lending, and growth in personal 
customer deposit balances. 
Our Wholesale Banking strategy, of
focusing on the four key areas of cash,
lending, business banking and treasury, 
has also seen increasing success. There
were increases in both the value of cash
sales and new business accounts opened,
as well as strong growth in commercial
lending balances.
Group Board Directors
We were delighted to appoint Margaret
Salmon to our Group Board as a non-
executive director in July 2004. Margaret 
is a Fellow of the Institute of Personnel
Development, and brings extensive
experience of human resources and 
retail expertise to the Board.
Peter Stone resigned from the Board as 
a non-executive director in September
2004 for personal reasons, having made 
a valuable contribution to the Group 
in the period he spent with us.
On 31 December 2004, Frances Cairncross
stepped down from the Board as a non-
executive director, after a total of twelve
years’ service. I would like to thank Frances
for her invaluable contribution to the
Group, and we wish her every success 
in her new appointment as Rector 
of Exeter College, Oxford University.
Details of all directors can be found on
pages 22 and 23 of this Report & Accounts.
“Alliance & Leicester continues
to deliver shareholder value. 
In 2004 we achieved all 
our strategic targets in a
challenging environment.”
John Windeler
Chairman
12%
Increase in Underlying 
Basic Earnings Per Share
Underlying Basic Earnings 
Per Share (pence)
68.0 79.0 88.2
02 03 04
     Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3
Statements
Management and Staff
The continued success of the Group reﬂects
the excellent leadership of Richard Pym and
the executive directors. Their constructive,
open team working and mutual support 
are key strengths of this business and have
enabled us to build a strong and capable
senior management team. The Group
Board is conﬁdent that this team will take
us forward in a very competitive market. 
Alliance & Leicester’s staff are among the
best in the industry. Their dedication and
ability is a key to our success, and I thank
them for their professionalism and
commitment to serving our customers
throughout 2004.
Corporate Governance
Alliance & Leicester recognises and fully
supports the value of good corporate
governance, not only in the areas of
accountability and risk management, 
but also as a positive contribution to
business prosperity. The Board believes 
that good corporate governance involves
applying the principles and provisions 
of The Combined Code on Corporate
Governance in a sensible and pragmatic
fashion, and remains satisﬁed that it
complies with all those provisions which
apply to the Group.
Corporate Social Responsibility
We believe that we have an important 
role to play in our local communities, 
by being a responsible employer and
through charitable giving and staff
volunteering. We strive on a day to 
day basis to make a valuable contribution
to our local communities through
donations, gifts in kind and staff
volunteering. We update our Corporate
Social Responsibility report annually.
The Future
Alliance & Leicester is well placed to 
remain successful in 2005 and to continue
to deliver good returns for our shareholders
in the future. 
We remain committed to responsible
lending in each of our markets, and to 
the principle of treating customers fairly.
We will continue to improve our cost
efﬁciency, enabling us to offer our
customers better value products than 
our competitors, whilst also delivering
valuable franchise growth and a strong
return on equity for our shareholders. 
We will deliver these objectives whilst
maintaining above average asset quality.
Our credit rating upgrade to Aa3 by
Moody’s in November 2004 demonstrated
both our ﬁnancial strength and the quality
of our earnings. This was a powerful
independent endorsement of our progress,
as we are the smallest UK bank to have
such a high rating. We have worked 
hard to gain our reputation of being 
a low risk bank and we believe that by
maintaining this position we will be well
placed to continue to perform strongly
should there be more difﬁcult market
conditions in the future.
John Windeler
Chairman
10%
Increase in Dividend Per Share
Dividend Per
Share (pence)
39.943.9 48.3
02 03 04
