 The year has seen an outstanding result for the Company 
with operating and financial results reflecting strong market
conditions. BHP Billiton’s market capitalisation has continued 
to grow, reaching around US$95 billion compared with 
US$58 billion this time last year and US$35 billion the previous
year . 
Our earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
were US$1 1 .4 billion (excluding exceptional items); our net
operating cash flows increased to US$8.7 billion and our total
dividend payment for the year was 28 US cents a share, a further
increase on last year’s significant rise and reflecting the seventh
consecutive increase in our dividend.
The strength of commodity prices and the volumes produced
across our operations – record volumes in many of the businesses
– were integral to our financial performance and while input costs
have increased as a result of the tight supply and strong demand
environment, our profit margins continue to increase.
Despite the constant prediction that global economies are about
to head into cyclical declines, high energy prices and geopolitical
stresses, solid economic growth continues. North east Asia is
acquiring enormous economic power . Korea, T aiwan, China and
Japan are influencing business decisions, trade flows, costs and
pricing for most major companies around the world. India
continues to make economic progress, suggesting significant
growth opportunities over the next decades.
Part of the Board’s response has been to support and endorse
management in rolling out a programme of development
projects that will enable us to meet a continuing increase in
demand and maintain our share of a rapidly growing global
market. This year, as well as approving four new projects – two
in Petroleum, and one each in copper and iron ore – the Board
endorsed the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd, providing us a
further set of future development options as part of its world-
class suite of copper/uranium/gold and nickel assets.
While each of these projects will provide good returns at any
point in the commodity cycle, the Board is conscious that it must
ensure the Company is well-positioned to take advantage of
growing demand if, in fact, the economic trends we are
witnessing are a sign of sustained demand growth and, hence, 
a long-term shift in the global economy.
It is the Board’s responsibility to ensure the Company can
respond to meet the requirements of our global customers and
maintain our market share as the world’s markets change and
develop.
Corporate Governance
The concept of corporate governance has unquestionably
climbed the corporate agenda. Across the globe we have
witnessed a proliferation of regulations, codes, recommendations
and principles on the subject. These have been generated by
governments, shareholders and lobby groups. Barely a single
aspect of modern corporate life has been left untouched in 
this process of regulation.
When BHP and Billiton merged in 2001 the Board determined
that the appropriate approach to governance was to adopt a
common framework that drew on the governance requirements
and best practices from all of the jurisdictions in which we
operated, and are regulated. As we have developed the
framework applicable to BHP Billiton, we have been motivated
by a desire to ensure that corporate governance does not simply
become synonymous with a mandated system of rules, based 
on a ‘tick a box’ system of compliance where shareholders,
creditors and other corporate stakeholders might lower their
guard to their own detriment.
Chairman’s Review
2 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
‘The Board has supported 
and endorsed management in
rolling out a programme of
development projects that will
enable us to meet a continuing
increase in demand and
maintain our share of a rapidly
growing global market.’
Don Argus, Chairman T o ensure we go beyond this regimented approach the Board 
has adopted its own Board Governance Document. 
This Document outlines:
• the processes the Board has developed to govern its own
tasks and activities (including our expectations of Directors
and the characteristics we are looking for in those we appoint
to the Board)
• the matters specifically reserved for Board decision-making
• the authority delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the
accountability of the CEO for that authority
• the relationship between the Board and the CEO, and
• the boundaries the Board has placed on CEO actions.
We believe that compliance of itself will not lead to a high
performing board and that it is incumbent on boards to develop
their own practices and processes that not only accommodate
mandated rules, but implement systems to ensure that the 
board most effectively represents the shareholders and 
promotes and protects the interests of the company. The Board
Governance Document has moved the emphasis from mere
compliance to a practice of informed responsible corporate
governance in the modern business environment. The 
Document is published on the website and can be accessed 
at www.bhpbilliton.com/aboutus/governance.
Our Corporate Governance Statement starts on page 28 
of this Report and a summary of our compliance with our 
multi-jurisdictional obligations and our own internal control
mechanisms is published on our website.
Our programme of Board renewal continued throughout the year .
In February we were able to secure the services of Mr Carlos
Cordeiro and, more recently the Hon Gail de Planque. Both
appointments followed a worldwide search by international 
firms retained to recruit directors with the requisite skill sets,
capabilities and attributes to add value to the oversight of this
complex Company.
Michael Chaney and Lord Renwick will retire by rotation this 
year and have both indicated that they do not wish to seek 
re-election. There is never a right time for hard-working, quality
directors to leave a board and, on behalf of all shareholders, I
thank Michael and Robin for their contribution to the
development of this high performing Company.
I pay tribute to all my Board colleagues for their contribution
throughout the year and for their continued commitment to the
prudent oversight of the Group’s affairs.
Corporate Responsibility
Corporate responsibility is essentially concerned with how
organisations develop their business in order to produce an
overall net benefit to society.
Since 1 997 BHP Billiton has produced a report on non-financial
issues and this initially covered environmental performance, 
with safety, health and community data included in subsequent
reports. This year we have introduced the Sustainability Report
(previously the Health, Safety, Environment and Community
Report) and this Report highlights our commitment to socio-
economic and ethical issues as well as those matters previously
covered in the HSEC Report.
Our commitment to responsible business practice was
recognised with the Company of the Year Award 2005 at the
Business in the Community (BITC) National Awards for
Excellence. BHP Billiton is the first company in the extractive
industries to receive the award and is the first recipient
recognised for its global activities.
All of our people around the world have a strong commitment 
to our sustainability initiatives and they have gained their own
confidence and understanding as well as enjoying the chance 
to make a difference in a constructive way to the communities
where we operate.
Outlook
While global economic growth rates have slowed from the
exceptionally high levels of 2004, the emerging economies
remain buoyant, offsetting slowing industrial production growth
in the OECD nations. It is the emerging economies of Asia, 
South America, Africa and Russia that will continue to drive
global growth, thereby providing a sound underpinning for
commodity demand.
We expect China to remain a large and sustainable consumer 
of raw materials and resources over the coming decades, and 
the Chinese government’s measures to tackle excessive growth
rates in certain sectors of their economy are to be welcomed.
However, developing economies, like all economies, will be
subject to business cycles which will impact economic activity
from time to time.
Commodity prices will inevitably ease from their highs as
demand growth slows and new supply comes on stream,
although we continue to expect prices to remain high by recent
historical standards.
Once again, I commend Chip Goodyear, his management team
and all of BHP Billiton’s many thousands of employees and
contractors for their continued commitment which has enabled
the Company to turn in another outstanding performance for the
2005 financial year .
Don Argus
3
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
