 For the past few years, we at BHP Billiton have had the privilege
of sitting in the front row of a new and, possibly, multi-decade
phase of world economic and social development. While this 
is exciting, our role as the world’s largest diversified resources
company brings with it an enormous responsibility to ensure 
we are running the business in a sustainable way, from
environmental, health and safety, community, customer,
employee and shareholder value perspectives. It also means 
we must constantly look at how to maintain and build on our
position in a rapidly-changing world.
We achieved strong outcomes against our Health, Safety,
Environmental and Community (HSEC) targets, which measure
our progress on our journey towards sustainable development. 
A detailed analysis of our fatalities, incidents and accidents from
the previous financial year found that our systems and processes
are robust and, in many instances, leading practice. The key
opportunity for improvement identified relates to our operating
discipline – ensuring that the systems we have in place are
understood and followed by everyone and that we share across
the organisation what we learn from each incident. As a result
we have identified necessary HSEC leadership attributes and
integrated these into our leadership model for the organisation.
Strong performance in HSEC is now a prerequisite for promotion.
Despite our efforts, three of our colleagues lost their lives at
work during the reporting year and we have suffered further
fatalities since. All of us are impacted by these needless deaths;
our resolve is even stronger to provide a workplace that delivers
Zero Harm.
Operating performance
Across the businesses, our financial and operational
performance has been excellent with many records set during
the year . In a climate of strong prices, the record volumes made
possible through operational excellence and expanded capacity
laid the groundwork for record profits. 
In most of our businesses we have been operating at full
capacity or better, extracting efficiencies that have enabled 
us to sell record volumes of products into our markets. 
Our project pipeline
Across the resources industry, increasing numbers of projects 
are being developed to provide greater capacity to meet growing
demand. During the year we completed eight major projects, 
but our pipeline of projects continued to be refreshed and now
stands at US$1 1 .9 billion worth of projects in either feasibility
stage or development. Our continuing global programme of
project development means we have dedicated and highly-
experienced teams able to move between projects and bring 
to each their skills and expertise. However, there is no doubt 
an industry shortage of skilled labour and materials is impacting
costs and schedules. This places additional stress on our
business.
Despite these pressures, the response from our people has 
been excellent. Their commitment and alignment to our values
demonstrate the increasing maturity of the BHP Billiton culture.
This commitment has enabled us to progress projects and
exercise growth options that allow us to increase capacity from
low-cost, high-quality assets as we see demand for products
materialise. Our project pipeline and our development efforts
ensure that we have the growth options available to us. The
planning, preparation and robust assessment processes inherent
in this pipeline have paid dividends for the past four years.
T oday, we have a proven track record both in project delivery
and in capturing the opportunity presented by a strong demand
environment. We will continue to invest in value-adding growth
opportunities throughout the economic cycle as this is a key
driver of value for our shareholders. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
4 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
‘In most of our businesses we
have been operating at full
capacity or better , extracting
efficiencies that have enabled
us to sell record volumes of
products in our markets.’
Chip Goodyear , Chief Executive Officer Meeting customer demand
Meeting our customers’ requirements remains a critical
objective. While the 2005 financial year was characterised by
tight supply coupled with strong demand, our interests and
those of our customers will be best served in an environment of
greater stability and certainty. We must maintain our day-to-day
focus on operational performance and maximising production
and build solid relationships with customers. These relationships
with customers lead to mutually beneficial arrangements and a
shared understanding of future demand requirements.
The acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd this year adds to our
portfolio a set of high-quality, long-life existing operations that
fits well with our existing portfolio and aligns with our business
strategy. In addition, the future expansion and development
options inherent in the Olympic Dam copper/uranium/gold asset
and the Western Australian nickel business, assist us in being
able to capture our share of future demand. We are very
fortunate as well to have been able to welcome some excellent
people who joined us from WMC. 
Capital management
We have consistently said that our priorities for using our 
cash flow are to reinvest in value-adding growth opportunities,
manage the balance sheet appropriately and return capital to
shareholders. During the year, excess capital was returned to
shareholders through a US$2 billion capital management
programme that comprised an off-market share buy-back of 
US$1 .78 billion and a rebasing of the underlying level of our
dividend from 9.5 to 1 3.5 US cents. In the past four years, 
the Company has returned a total of US$8.3 billion to its
shareholders, including buy-backs, spin-offs and dividends. 
We believe that the revised dividend base is supported by 
the earnings and cash flow outlook for the Company.
Our people
It is important that we recognise the efforts of our 36 000
people who are the foundation of the Company. They have been
an integral element in delivering this year’s performance and
positioning the Company to meet our future objectives. Our
people are the face of our Company and our success would 
not be possible without their commitment and dedication. 
Chip Goodyear
5
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 6 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
REACH NEW
MARKETS
at a time when 
the economy is
experiencing
significant growth. 
We constantly 
> 7
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 8 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
>
SEEK OUT OPPORTUNITIES
and work closely with our customers to help
grow their businesses. Our integrated approach
allows us to organise our production to suit
customer requirements and assist them in
meeting the needs of our changing world. 
We aim to 
> 9
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 10 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
> 11
>
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005
LEAD THROUGH INNOVATION
in every facet of our operations. From the 
way we create value for shareholders, to our
commitment to the communities we operate
in, to the mutual respect we have with our
most important asset, our people.
