 Page 10 of 165
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CEO’s Report
 
In 2015, Allied Minds made significant progress across key areas 
of the Group . With support from third-party investors, we were 
able to make substantial investments in our portfolio businesses, 
fueling their ability to achieve key development milestones . 
The considerable number of corporate collaborations further 
demonstrated the commercial progress of our subsidiaries . 
During 2015 and post-period, our businesses established 
important relationships with leading companies such as Intel, 
AMD, Lockheed Martin, Google, Cisco, Ruckus Wireless, 
Qualcomm, Nokia and many others . Our partnership with Bristol-
Myers Squibb (BMS), Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, continued to 
generate new companies focused on developing future drug 
candidates addressing large underserved medical needs . All of 
these achievements are indicative of the commercial potential 
of our subsidiary businesses and Group’s ability to create value 
from potentially disruptive, early stage technologies .
We also benefited from strong additions to the leadership team, including the appointment of new members 
to our Board of Directors, as well as the recruitment of several high-calibre advisors and the successful 
appointment of seasoned executives, scientists and engineers for our subsidiaries . We increased our 
workforce by over 53% during the year, bringing our headcount of employees and consultants to 359 . This 
increase was almost entirely concentrated into the operating subsidiaries, with the new hires being 61% 
engineers and technical developers, 27% leadership and management executives and 12% sales, marketing 
and other business development professionals . We implemented a new annual bonus attainment process, 
which we believe best aligns shareholder value creation with employee performance . More information is 
available in the Remuneration Report of this Annual Report .
Our pipeline of new technologies expanded dramatically as we grew and strengthened our relationships 
with our US research university and US federal laboratory partners . Our network more than doubled to 160 
partners from 68 partners at the end of the prior year . The investment team reviewed a record number 
of over 5,000 new technologies from our network and, following extensive due diligence on more than 
20 of the most promising, formed four new businesses, bringing the total count to 23 subsidiaries at the 
end of the year . We also executed options to license three additional technologies . The Group currently 
has 21 technologies in early due diligence, two in final due diligence and a number of opportunities in 
active negotiations . We have clearly established an industry-leading pipeline of cutting-edge technologies 
from the US research community, which we believe will result in the sustainable generation of disruptive 
businesses for years to come .
Continued Significant Investment
During 2015, Allied Minds strategically deployed $102 .8 million into new and existing businesses, which 
followed the $125 .0 million deployed last year . We made new investments in key subsidiary businesses 
including Federated Wireless, SciFluor Life Sciences, Precision Biopsy and others, to accelerate important 
activities such as commencing clinical trials, launching new products, and entering into strategic 
collaborations with leading industry participants .
010_c112021_5.5.indd   10 21/04/2016   13:25 Page 11 of 165
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
CEO’s Report (continued)
 
Strategic Report
 
The Group continued to attract third-party investments directly into several subsidiaries, providing for the 
acceleration of their growth . These investments included a $33 .6 million financing for Precision Biopsy; a 
$30 .0 million financing for SciFluor Life Sciences; and post-period, a $22 .0 million financing for Federated 
Wireless .
We started four new subsidiary businesses based on ground-breaking government technologies, as well 
as innovative new drugs to treat diseases . These included the formation of two space-based subsidiaries, 
BridgeSat and HawkEye 360; and the licensing of life-science technologies from Harvard and Yale 
Universities, building upon our Allied-Bristol Life Sciences (ABLS) partnership with BMS .
As a result of continued significant investment and the subsidiary milestones achieved, the Group 
Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value increased by 9 .8% to $535 .8 million as of 31 December 2015, from 
$488 .0 million at 31 December 2014 .
Outlook
The outlook for Allied Minds remains very promising . Our focus is on validating events in 2016, which 
we expect to include significant achievements such as increased customer engagement, corporate 
partnerships with leading industry players, potential asset monetisations and the continued disciplined 
investment into our key subsidiaries . We have built a strong foundation in both our existing portfolio and 
our technology pipeline, which will support the creation of new subsidiaries and continued commercial 
progress, each enhancing shareholder value .
Chris Silva 
Chief Executive Officer
25 April 2016
010_c112021_5.5.indd   11 21/04/2016   13:25
