 Page 3 of 152
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
Chairman’s Report
 
It gives me great pleasure to present our first annual 
report as a public company and to welcome you as a 
shareholder in Allied Minds plc .
I am pleased to note that 2014 was a year of 
significant milestones for the Group, with strong 
performance and third-party equity investments 
driving a meaningful increase in the value of the 
Group . Both the Group and its subsidiary businesses 
had a very active year . The execution of a successful 
initial public offering (IPO) on the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange, raising gross proceeds 
of $155 .0 million, was the highlight of the first half 
of 2014, and provided the Group with the capital 
necessary to support its business strategy and long-
term growth .
Investment Model and Opportunity
The funding of basic research to generate new intellectual property (IP) is now largely driven by government 
sources, be it through higher education systems or directly funded research bodies . Once created, these 
ideas require an effective, efficient and sustainable channel to develop and mature into products or services 
which can benefit the wider economy . 
A strong economy requires innovation to drive new products, new markets and ultimately enhance 
productivity and promote employment . There are a number of paths to commercialising promising 
technology, the most obvious being the formation of a new company . The disruptive force of start-ups has 
been shown to be a significant driver of innovation and an important and necessary feature of productive, 
growing economies . 
In our experience there is no shortage of high-quality IP being generated by research institutions, particularly 
in the United States where Allied Minds operates . What is often lacking is an active and supportive eco-system 
to enable start-ups to mature and evolve into high-growth, impactful and valuable companies . Building a 
successful start-up is not easy and requires not only great ideas, but also high-quality management and 
consistent access to capital, ideally delivered within a model which can also ensure high-fidelity control and 
governance . Above all, start-ups often require considerable time to mature in order to truly deliver value .
Competition for investment funds amongst different asset classes is driving the need for shorter investment 
time frames . Few venture funds have the flexibility or the operational emphasis to focus on early-stage 
investment in IP-centric projects . This has meant that many venture investors, particularly in the US, have 
increasingly focused on internet and media deals with the inevitable escalation of asset valuations . True 
early-stage investment in IP-based start-ups still remains a relatively rare commodity .
I believe we are seeing the emergence of a new type of investment model to help address this problem, 
which is better suited for building the next generation of technology companies and seeks to deliver above 
average returns for investors . These public venture companies focus on developing portfolios of IP-based 
early-stage start-ups and seek to help build them into companies over a much longer time horizon, providing 
capital and management support along the way . 
c111026.indb   3 25/04/2015   02:07 Page 4 of 152
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
Chairman’s Report (continued)
 
I am proud to say that Allied Minds has been at the forefront of pioneering this model in the US and is 
its leading proponent . The United States is the most important market in the world for both generating 
valuable technology and in consuming the end product or services . The market opportunity facing our 
company is truly enormous; we are the market leader in the leading market . 
In utilising the strengths of our investment model and successfully executing to our strategic plan, I believe 
there is every opportunity to take Allied Minds to the next level as one of the most significant and valuable 
global technology driven businesses . 
People
During the year and in anticipation of our IPO, we reviewed the Board composition and welcomed two new 
independent Directors, Peter Dolan and Jeff Rohr . Peter has 30 years of operating experience, including 18 
years at Bristol-Myers Squibb, where he served as Chairman and CEO . He is currently the Chairman of the 
Board of Trustees of Tufts University in Massachusetts . Jeff has 30 years of senior management experience 
at Deloitte LLP, having last served in the role of Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer .
In order that we fully comply with UK corporate governance guidelines, the Group Chairman needs to 
be an independent director and accordingly I will be standing down at our forthcoming Annual General 
Meeting . I am delighted to report that Peter, who currently serves as the Senior Independent Director, has 
agreed to transition to the role of Non-Executive Chairman . I will remain on the Group Board in an executive 
capacity in the short term but intend to step down from the Board later in the year, although I expect to stay 
actively engaged with the Group . The Nomination Committee is actively considering adding an additional 
independent director in the near future .
We are fortunate at Allied Minds to have a dynamic and dedicated group of people both at the corporate 
level and at our subsidiary businesses who are all determined to build further on the success we have had 
to date . The Group would not be in the position it is today without the contributions of our employees and, 
as always, I am proud of and thankful for their efforts . On behalf of the Board I also want to express our 
particular thanks to those employees directly involved in the stock market listing for their tremendous hard 
work and dedication .
Finally, I would like to formally note my thanks to all the Group’s stakeholders, but particularly for the strong 
support from shareholders for the Group’s IPO and subsequent subsidiary financings .
Outlook 
It has been both a highly active and exciting year for the Group . I believe that the Group’s track record and 
expertise in its field, coupled with extensive US university and US federal research institution partnerships, 
and strong balance sheet, leaves Allied Minds well placed to continue to generate significant value for 
shareholders over the medium and long term . I look forward to the future with much confidence .
Mark Pritchard 
Executive Chairman
28 April 2015
c111026.indb   4 25/04/2015   02:07
