 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
2
I am pleased to present this Annual Report to shareholders for the financial year ended 31 December 2016 
which was an important period in Allied Minds’ development.  
During 2016 we successfully raised funds at both Group and subsidiary level, putting the Company in a stronger 
financial position to capitalise on the opportunities in front of us.  We made solid progress at a number of our 
subsidiaries, including, for example, Federated Wireless, which has advanced rapidly against its key regulatory 
and commercial objectives, and HawkEye 360, a younger Allied Minds subsidiary with exciting potential, as 
evidenced by the participation of Razor’s Edge and a defence market leader in the recent Series A funding 
round. We are also pleased with our developments with corporate partners across the Group, most notably our 
new strategic alliance with GE Ventures. 
In March 2017 the Board appointed Jill Smith as interim CEO, replacing Chris Silva. I would like to thank Chris 
Silva for his contribution as CEO and co-founder of the Company and to welcome Jill Smith in her new role as 
interim CEO. Chris played an important role in building Allied Minds into a key player in IP commercialisation 
in the US – the largest market in the world for R&D investment.
Jill’s appointment is aligned to the Board’s objective to bring about a material acceleration in the pace of 
commercialisation activities across our portfolio and pipeline. Jill brings to the role a successful track record over 
25 years of leading public and private businesses in the technology and information services sector, including 
16 years operating as a CEO. Most recently, Jill served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of 
DigitalGlobe Inc. (NYSE: DGI), a global provider of satellite imagery products and services, including through its 
successful IPO in 2009. Her skills and experience, in particular in driving revenue growth and leading successful 
monetisation events, are exactly what is required at this stage in the Company’s development.
Following Jill’s appointment the Board took the difficult decision to undertake a restructuring resulting in the 
discontinuation of funding at several subsidiary businesses: Biotectix; Cephalogics; CryoXtract; Novare 
Pharmaceuticals; Optio Labs; RF Biocidics; and SoundCure/Tinnitus Treatment Solutions (the Discontinued 
Subsidiaries). While many of the Discontinued Subsidiaries had demonstrated progress against technical 
milestones, the Board determined that the path to commercialisation was unlikely to yield appropriate financial 
returns and that capital earmarked to these subsidiaries should be diverted to more promising areas of the 
portfolio and to scaling our pipeline and partnerships. The restructuring has resulted in a mark down to Group 
Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value (GSOAV). However, it places Allied Minds in a stronger position to 
deliver returns to shareholders over the medium term to longer term through accelerated commercialisation and 
monetisations, and portfolio growth.    
Following the restructuring and Jill’s appointment, we are well placed to accelerate commercialisation across the 
portfolio and increase the pace of pipeline development. Together with the Board I look forward to the outcome 
of the internal review initiated by Jill and in particular to her proposals to unlock faster progress towards value 
crystallisation for our shareholders.  I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and our 
management team and staff for their hard work and commitment.
Peter Dolan 
Chairman 
27 April 2017 
 
CHAIRMAN’S REPORT
