 I am delighted to have been appointed interim CEO of Allied Minds and would like to thank my predecessor, 
Chris Silva, for his contribution in co-founding and building the Company, and our employees and partners for 
the warm welcome they have extended to me in my new role.
Following my appointment, the Board ratified a recommendation from myself and the senior management team 
at Allied Minds to undertake a restructuring resulting in the discontinuation of funding at several subsidiary 
businesses. This was a necessary step in ensuring Allied Minds is set up to direct capital and management 
resource to the most promising areas of the portfolio and pipeline, consistent with the imperative to accelerate 
commercialisation and crystallise returns to our shareholders. 
An internal review of all facets of Allied Minds’ model and strategy is underway, focusing on capital allocation 
and on priorities to strengthen our competitive advantages and accelerate the growth in shareholder value. We 
expect to report on conclusions from this review in the summer. I set out some preliminary observations below.
Firstly, a more disciplined, systematic, and dynamic approach to capital allocation will be implemented. There 
will be more intense interrogation and validation of assumptions underpinning our investment decisions, both in 
origination and in determining the ongoing business and capital plans for our existing subsidiaries. Out of this 
process we will allocate capital where we see the greatest opportunities for growth, and we will be quicker 
and more objective in terminating future investments where the path to commercialisation and external funding 
becomes unclear.
Secondly, we will seek to broaden our syndication model, bringing in more external investors potentially at an 
earlier stage in order to provide external validation, and in the case of strategic investors, to bind in commercial 
partners where this can help accelerate or de-risk progress to commercialisation. The recent HawkEye 360 
Series A fundraising, including Razor’s Edge and a defence market leader, is a good example of this.
Thirdly, we have an enviable origination platform, in particular via our AMFI network accessing relatively 
advanced or proven technologies from federally funded laboratories, and will examine options to bring about 
an acceleration in the velocity of new investments around more consistent and defined themes where we can 
leverage our competitive advantages.
I look forward to reporting on the conclusions of the internal review in the summer. In the meantime I would like 
to thank shareholders for their ongoing support.
 
Jill Smith  
Chief Executive Officer
27 April 2017
CEO’S REPORT 
9
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Strategic Report
