 Page 8 of 152
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
CEO’s Report
 
I am pleased to present my first report as Allied Minds plc’s CEO . 
Allied Minds has been at the forefront of developing a US-based 
public venture company that creates, invests in, and actively 
manages high-potential technology businesses . Prior to our 
London Stock Exchange listing on 25 June 2014, Allied Minds 
dedicated itself to building a strong foundation to this purpose . 
Before our listing, we created and managed 18 subsidiary 
businesses; employed more than 200 people, of which 125 held 
advanced degrees, including 65 PhDs; and developed a robust 
pipeline emanating from a network of 64 leading US universities 
and federal research centres of excellence . During the IPO 
roadshow, the Chairman and I outlined Allied Minds’ near-term 
objectives, which were: to invest in (with third party participation) 
the acceleration of key subsidiary businesses; to create the 
Group’s first corporate partnership with a major international 
conglomerate; to progress the commercial development across our portfolio of businesses; and to create 
new high-impact businesses . I am happy to report that Allied Minds accomplished all of these objectives . 
The Group’s significant expertise across a range of science and technology disciplines, its highly skilled 
workforce, as well as its capital resources, allowed it to expand upon its strong foundations . Since mid-2014, 
Allied Minds attracted third-party investment and grants and co-invested $123 million into Spin Transfer 
Technologies (STT), Optio Labs, SiEnergy, Allied-Bristol Life Sciences (ABLS) and SciFluor . In August 2014, 
we formed ABLS, a partnership with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS), to create 10 new businesses that aim 
to develop novel biopharmaceutical assets . Further, the Group established collaborations with additional 
university and federal labs that led to the formation of new businesses; and continued to progress ongoing 
scientific research and development for the commercialisation of products in its portfolio . 
Allied Minds is building a diversified portfolio of businesses in the life and high-technology sectors . I believe 
that the US continues to produce a wealth of potentially world-class intellectual property from its universities 
and federal government laboratories, and that the Group is well-positioned to continue to back IP-based 
early-stage projects and businesses given its strong track record, patient development timelines, strong 
management and cash position . The Group aims to achieve growth and value creation over the medium 
and long term as its subsidiary businesses’ products and services mature through the commercialisation 
cycle .
Milestones Achieved
Allied Minds has access to an extensive array of intellectual property and technology opportunities in the 
US through its network of universities and federal government laboratories . In 2014, our partner network 
grew to 68 partners, to include the addition of three new universities and seven new federal laboratories: 
University of Massachusetts, Lowell; Worcester Polytechnic Institute; University of Texas, San Antonio; 
Los Alamos National Laboratory; Oak Ridge National Laboratory; Pacific Northwest National Laboratory; 
Sandia National Laboratories; Georgia Tech Research Institute; MITRE National Cyber Security Centre of 
Excellence; and Charles Stark Draper Laboratory .
c111026.indb   8 25/04/2015   02:07 Page 9 of 152
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
CEO’s Report (continued)
 
Strategic Report
 
The partner network and technology pipeline led the Group to form three new businesses:
•	 Seamless Devices, with technology from Columbia University, to develop a novel signal processing 
technique for analog to digital converters;
•	 Percipient Networks, with technology from The MITRE Corporation, to develop next-generation security 
technologies for enterprise network defence; and
•	 Whitewood Encryption Systems, with technology from Los Alamos National Laboratory, to develop next-
generation systems of data encryption that leverage advanced quantum cryptography technologies .
2014 also marked the year that we completed our first corporate partnership . We teamed with BMS to 
form ABLS to identify and foster research and pre-clinical development of biopharmaceutical innovations . 
ABLS plans to create 10 subsidiary companies, each developing a novel biopharmaceutical asset with the 
intention of exiting the subsidiary business to BMS at the end of pre-clinical development . 
Our subsidiary businesses progressed well in 2014, achieving numerous technical milestones . Notably, 
STT completed its first phase of integration of magnetic and CMOS wafer technology, demonstrating the 
technology’s capability to integrate with existing fabrication processes that are standard in the industry . The 
Group also saw significant growth in its intellectual property estate, receiving grant of numerous patents, 
including two by the US Patent and Trade Office to SciFluor for claims covering the novel compounds for 
retinal and neurological diseases .
Allied Minds attracted third-party investment and grants directly into several subsidiaries, including a 
$70 .0 million equity financing in STT, a $10 .0 million investment in the formation of ABLS, a $10 .0 million 
equity financing in Optio Labs, and a $2 .65 million US government ARPA-E REBELS grant for SiEnergy . 
The Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value increased to $488 .0 million as of 31 December 2014 from 
$367 .3 million at 31 December 2013, an increase of $120 .7 million, or 32 .9% .
Continuing Momentum
Allied Minds has continued this progress into 2015 . The Group recently announced the formation and 
funding of BridgeSat, which is developing an optical connectivity system that aims to increase the speed, 
security and efficiency of data transmissions from Low Earth Orbit (LEO) satellites compared to traditional 
radio frequency solutions . BridgeSat was formed in collaboration with The Aerospace Corporation, Draper 
Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Assistant Professor Dr . Kerri L . Cahoy, and the graduate 
student team in the Space, Telecommunications, Astronomy, and Radiation (STAR) Laboratory . 
In addition, SciFluor recently raised a $30 .0 million equity financing, which included $25 .2 million of third-
party funds, to commence clinical trials of its patent-protected compounds in retinal and neurological 
diseases . 
The Group also has two additional transactions near completion . ABLS I, LLC was formed to execute on the 
first project approved for investment under our ABLS partnership with BMS . This project involves licensing 
intellectual property with respect to prostate oncology from an Ivy League institution, and proceeding to 
pre-clinical evaluation and development . In addition, ABLS II, LLC was formed to execute on a second 
project approved for investment . This project involves licensing intellectual property with respect to fibrotic 
diseases from a second Ivy League institution, and proceeding to pre-clinical evaluation and development . 
c111026.indb   9 25/04/2015   02:07 Page 10 of 152
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
CEO’s Report (continued)
 
The Group is currently assessing new technologies we believe can have a significant commercial impact . We 
have 13 technologies in final due diligence and 89 technologies in early due diligence . The Group expects 
that its significant technology pipeline is likely to lead to the creation of a number of new subsidiaries during 
the remainder of 2015, and aims to form and fund 5 to 10 new projects annually .
We continue to scale and add resources at the Group and its subsidiary businesses . Since the IPO, we 
have added an additional 98 employees and contractors across our businesses . Our total workforce has 
reached 298 employees and contractors, of which 180 hold advanced degrees, including 87 PhDs . We 
intend to strengthen our highly skilled workforce as business needs require .
Outlook
As we continue to build from our strong foundation, the momentum we achieved with a successful IPO, and 
the meeting of the near-term goals set out during the IPO process, I believe Allied Minds is well positioned 
for meaningful further growth . In 2015, we will continue to focus on the commercial advancement of our 
subsidiary businesses; intend to invest further in our businesses and together with third-party investment 
where appropriate; expand our portfolio of high-impact businesses; and add key industry managers and 
expertise to the Group . Importantly, as the Group and the subsidiary businesses mature, we aspire to attract 
new corporate alliances, which we believe will further validate our model and the commercial potential of 
the subsidiaries . Future corporate collaborations could include co-development agreements, licensing, joint 
ventures, and direct equity investment . The Company and its businesses are well positioned for continued 
execution excellence, commercial maturation and expansion, which should result in increased value for 
shareholders over the medium and long term . In closing, I believe the outlook for Allied Minds is strong . 
Chris Silva 
Chief Executive Officer
28 April 2015
c111026.indb   10 25/04/2015   02:07
