 Page 3 of 165
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Chairman’s Report
 
I am delighted to present this Annual Report to 
shareholders for the full year 2015, which was a 
highly productive period for Allied Minds . This is my 
first Annual Report as Chairman and I would start by 
extending my thanks to Mark Pritchard, the Group’s 
founder and Executive Chairman until September 
2015, for his vision in developing such a unique 
company . The culture of focusing on the successful 
commercialisation of innovation he fostered is alive 
and well in the senior leadership team .
The Board embraces its responsibility to set the 
Group’s strategic aims, ensure the senior leadership 
is in place to put them into effect, supervise 
the management of the business, and report to 
shareholders on this stewardship . We are focused 
on providing Board leadership, guidance and support to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent 
management that can deliver long-term and sustainable success for the Group and its shareholders .
The Company’s business model is to form, fund, manage and build start-up companies which undertake 
product development and commercialise innovations emerging from US universities and US federal 
government research laboratories in the life sciences and technology sectors . Our ultimate strategy is to 
build a significant and diversified group of businesses and achieve strong growth, which in turn rewards 
our shareholders . In 2015, the Board ensured that the Group was both bold in executing this strategy and 
prudent in the way it deployed capital and resources .
Board Changes
During 2015, the Board sought to ensure there was an appropriate and diverse mix of skills, knowledge 
and experience on the Board . In addition to my appointment as Non-Executive Chairman in June 2015, 
Rick Davis, who has served on our Board since 2011, became our Senior Independent Director in August 
2015 . The Board was further strengthened with the appointment of two new Independent Non-Executive 
Directors; Kevin Sharer in June 2015, and Jill Smith, post period end, in January 2016 .
Kevin spent more than 20 years leading Amgen, the world’s largest independent biotechnology firm, 
starting as President and Chief Operating Officer and then served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer . 
Having previously served on the Boards of Directors of Chevron Corp . and Northrop Grumman Corp ., 
Kevin is currently a faculty member at Harvard Business School, where he teaches General Management 
and other classes .
Jill has more than 25 years of experience as an international business leader, including 16 years as Chief 
Executive Officer of private and public companies in the technology and information services markets . 
Most recently, Jill served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of DigitalGlobe Inc ., a global 
provider of satellite imagery products and services . Currently, Jill serves as an independent director on the 
Boards of Directors of Endo International plc, Hexagon and JM Huber .
010_c112021_5.5.indd   3 21/04/2016   13:25 Page 4 of 165
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2015
Chairman’s Report (continued)
 
Incentive Alignment
The Remuneration Committee carried out a thorough review of all elements of remuneration for Executive 
Directors and senior management and considered feedback received from major shareholders and 
shareholder advisory services in 2015 . Notable revisions to the Remuneration Policy which will be put 
to a binding shareholder vote at the 2016 AGM include: annual cash incentive bonus awards shall be 
determined solely by the level of achievement against the financial, operational, technical and other 
performance targets (MBOs) set by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year; and 
100% of awards under our long term incentive plan (LTIP) shall be subject to performance conditions based 
on the Company’s relative total shareholder return (rTSR) performance as compared to broad indices 
and industry peer companies . The Board believes that the new Policy will serve to reward entrepreneurial 
milestone achievement, increased subsidiary valuation and the creation of shareholder value over time .
Our Model to Build Value
Allied Minds made significant progress in 2015, executing against its strategy to identify early-stage 
technologies and innovations from leading US research facilities, form and invest in companies with 
differentiated intellectual property rights and key scientific, engineering and management talent, and develop 
the resulting subsidiaries into potentially disruptive businesses which address large and growing markets . 
We currently have 23 subsidiary businesses at varying stages of maturity across the life sciences and 
technology sectors, the majority of which met or exceeded their key technical and operational milestones 
in 2015 .
We look to 2016 as a year of crystallising value as we attract further investments into the existing portfolio, 
welcome further partnerships with industry leaders, and continue to achieve other financial, operational and 
technical milestones . I would like to thank our shareholders for their continued support and our management 
team and staff for their hard work and commitment .
Peter Dolan 
Chairman
25 April 2016
010_c112021_5.5.indd   4 21/04/2016   13:25
