 Investment Highlights 
During 2016, an aggregate of $108.2 million was invested into new and existing portfolio companies, including: 
• $60.2 million from subsidiary fundraisings with $48.5 million coming from third-party investment and 
$11.7 million from Allied Minds, to support and accelerate the development of four of the Group’s 
existing companies: Federated Wireless; Precision Biopsy; HawkEye 360 and ABLS II.
 o Federated Wireless, a company developing cloud-based software enabling dynamic sharing of 
surplus spectrum owned by the US military, raised $22.0 million in early 2016. Allied Minds invested 
$5.0 million in this fundraising and third-party investment totaled $17.0 million.
 o Precision Biopsy, a company developing early intervention technology that detects in real time 
suspicious tissue during prostate biopsy examinations, raised $5.0 million during 2016, and received 
$6.0 million from a fundraising completed in 2015, both sums from external investors.
 o Hawkeye 360, a company developing a space-based radio frequency (RF) mapping and analytics 
system to be operated via a constellation of formation-flying small satellites in Low Earth Orbit (LEO), 
raised $11.0 million in a funding round led by Razor’s Edge Ventures, with additional participation 
by Allied Minds and a defence market leader. A further $2.75 million of new equity was issued 
by Hawkeye 360 post-period end, of which $1.5 million was issued in the form of warrants in 
association with a $3.0 million development programme. 
 o ABLS II raised $15.0 million as it moved from initial feasibility studies to fund the lead optimisation 
programme for its novel small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of fibrotic and autoimmune 
diseases. $12.0 million of this funding was provided by ABLS Capital (of which Allied Minds provided 
$2.7 million), with the remaining $3.0 million from Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS). 
 o The balance of the $60.2 million of capital invested via subsidiary fundraisings comprised $1.2 
million of initial seed capital raised from external sources at ABLS Capital (net of placing fees) to cover 
the initial operating expenses of this entity.
• In addition to these fundraisings, $48.0 million was invested by the Group into new and other existing 
portfolio companies, including investments in four new businesses: Signature Medical (Boston University), 
ABLS Capital and ABLS III (New York University (NYU)), and Vatic Materials (Penn State). Following 
further due diligence on Vatic Materials, a decision was taken post-period end not to exercise an option 
to license underlying IP and the business was terminated.
• Separately, ABLS secured binding equity commitments of up to $80.0 million into ABLS Capital 
(predominantly from external investors).  These commitments, together with up to $20.0 million from 
BMS, will fund development costs for lead optimisation programmes of promising drug compounds 
sourced by ABLS, the partnership formed between Allied Minds and BMS in 2014, following successful 
completion of the initial feasibility phase. Of these commitments, $12.0 million was drawn in 2016 to 
fund the lead optimisation programme for ABLS II, as described above. Included in the $80.0 million 
of commitments to ABLS Capital is the $1.2 million of net cash payments made to ABLS Capital by the 
external investors referred above.
• In December 2016 Allied Minds raised $80.3 million in gross proceeds via a placing of new ordinary 
shares, equivalent to 8.1% of the existing share capital prior to the placing. Proceeds from the placing 
will be applied to invest alongside third parties in the Group’s later stage subsidiaries and selected 
earlier stage subsidiaries and to invest in the pipeline of innovative new technologies.
 
 
HIGHLIGHTS
3
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
4
Corporate Operational Highlights
• During the year, Allied Minds engaged with nearly 50 new research institutions, bringing the total US 
universities and federal laboratories in the Allied Minds partner network to 207. 
• The investment team reviewed more than 2,700 new technologies developed by the partner network. 
Following extensive due diligence on over 20 of the most promising technologies, the Group formed 
and funded four new businesses, resulting in a total Group portfolio of 27 subsidiary businesses at 31 
December 2016 (17 following the closure of ABLS I, Vatic Materials and the Discontinued Subsidiaries 
post-period end). 
• Allied Minds launched a strategic alliance with GE Ventures to jointly identify and commercialise next-
generation technologies. Under the terms of the agreement, Allied Minds and GE Ventures agreed to 
invest in new and existing technologies sourced from both Allied Minds’ and GE Ventures’ innovation 
pipelines. 
• The Group entered into exciting new strategic partnerships and renewed valuable existing partnerships 
with leading technology sources, including the MITRE Corporation, the Aerospace Corporation, and 
Pacific Northwest National Labs.
• During 2016 and post-period, Allied Minds and its subsidiaries further developed existing collaborations 
with industry leaders including BMS, Intel, Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), Alphabet, Cisco, Ruckus 
Wireless (Brocade), Qualcomm, Nokia, Telrad Networks, Siemens and others, validating the quality of 
our platforms, people and technologies.  
• During 2016 the total workforce expanded from approximately 359 to 413 employees and consultants. 
The workforce increase was almost entirely concentrated in the operating subsidiaries. Our workforce 
comprises approximately 68% engineering and technical development professionals, 11% leadership 
and management professionals and 21% sales, marketing and other business development professionals. 
Financial Highlights
• Net cash and investments* of $226.1 million (2015: $194.8 million) of which $136.7 million (2015: 
$115.0 million) held at the parent level. 
 * includes funds in form of fixed income securities.
• Revenues of $2.7 million (2015: $3.3 million) reflecting the early stage nature of our portfolio businesses
• Net loss of $128.7 million, (2015: $97.9 million) primarily reflecting an increase in the overall growth 
of the Group’s investment in commercial and R&D activities, as well as the non-cash finance cost from 
fair value accounting of the subsidiary preferred shares liability.
• GSOAV of $416.2 million as of 24 April 2017 ($535.8 million as at 31 December 2015), reflecting 
the discontinuation of funding at the Discontinued Subsidiaries, partially offset by a net increase in 
valuation in the remainder of the portfolio (specifically, at Hawkeye 360 and ABLS II).
Corporate Partnership Highlights 
• ABLS, a drug development joint venture with BMS:
 o reviewed more than 245 technologies from partner research institutions;
 o called on $12.0 million of pre-committed funds, and received a further $3.0 million of funding from 
BMS, to finance  the lead optimisation phase for ABLS II’s novel treatment for fibrotic and autoimmune 
diseases;
 o formed ABLS III (d/b/a i βeCa Therapeutics), licensing technology sourced from NYU School of 
Medicine, using proprietary compounds targeting the Wnt signalling (see below); and
HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)  o after the period end, closed ABLS I following Board determination that the ABLS I feasibility programme 
was not successfully completed.
• Strategic Alliance with GE Ventures
 o formed in September 2016; and
 o perform ongoing work to identify candidate technologies for joint investment.
Selected Subsidiary Highlights
• BridgeSat, a developer of optical communications networks for the satellite industry:
 o initiated development for the three facets of the BridgeSat solution: space terminal, ground station, 
and management network for targeted completion in 2017; 
 o post-period end entered into a commercial agreement with Swedish Space Corporation (SSC) 
securing access for BSI equipment at SSC ground sites; and
 o secured initial customer agreements for hardware and data services.
• Federated Wireless, a developer of software providing spectrum allocation solutions: 
 o received Federal Communications Commission’ s (FCC) conditional approval for its Spectrum Allocation 
System (SAS), with full approval expected in 2017; 
 o demonstrated interoperability with Alphabet’s SAS system, a key step in the FCC approval process;
 o founded the CBRS (Citizen’s Broadband Radio Service) Alliance with Alphabet, Intel, Qualcomm, 
Ruckus Wireless (Brocade), Nokia and others, promoting the ecosystem development for shared 
spectrum; and
 o signed partnership agreements with Siemens and Telrad Networks and completed trials with these 
partners as well as Alphabet, Dell, Ruckus and Qualcomm in 2016 and Nokia, Ericsson, Sercomm 
and Juni post-period end. Trials with a further 9 ecosystem members are pending, including one with 
a national Mobile Network Operator (MNO).
• Hawkeye360, a company developing a space-based radio frequency (RF) mapping/analytics system:  
 o engaged contractors and commenced manufacturing of satellites and payloads; 
 o announced the formation of an Advisory Board, and the appointment of John Serafini as CEO; and
 o secured launch on a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket targeted for Q1 2018.
• Precision Biopsy, a company developing alternative prostate cancer diagnostics and focal therapy:
 o began clinical trials in the US in a Cohort A study for ClariCore™, to date completing more than 100 
patients at 6 US clinical sites.
• SciFluor, a drug discovery and development company making strategic use of fluorine:  
 o commenced Phase I/II FDA trials with SF0166, an eye drop formulation of a drug intended to treat 
age-related macular degeneration (Wet AMD) and diabetic macular edema (DME) populations, 
following delays due to FDA requests for additional data;
 o secured further patent protection covering methods of use of SF0166 in AMD, DME and retinal vein 
occlusion (RVO); and
 o completed pre-clinical testing, including toxicology, and prepared IND submission for SF0034 (a 
fluorinated derivative of retigabine).
HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
5
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
6
• Spin Transfer Technologies (STT), a next-generation computer memory company:
 o shipped samples of its DM1 Diagnostic Memory chip to target customers;
 o became only the second company to have shipped perpendicular ST-MRAM samples;
 o announced fabrication of key magnetic components (pMTJs) as small as 20nm – among the smallest 
MTJs every reported; and
 o completed prototypes of memory arrays at megabit level densities, another key step in the 
commercialisation process.
• In addition, Allied Minds formed four new businesses during the year:
 o ABLS entered into a licence agreement with NYU School of Medicine, via ABLS III d/b/a i βeCa 
Therapeutics, in relation to proprietary compounds targeting the Wnt signalling.  These compounds 
were developed by Dr. Ramanuj Dasgupta, Research Associate Professor at NYU School of Medicine, 
and NYU’s drug discovery accelerator, the Office of Therapeutics Alliances (OTA). The Wnt pathway 
plays a key role in the development and progression of a number of cancers affecting large numbers 
of patients;
 o ABLS Capital, a vehicle with binding funding commitments of  up to $80.0 million, mostly from 
external investors, to be drawn down together with up to $20.0 million of funding from BMS to 
fund lead optimisation studies for ABLS subsidiaries that have successfully completed initial feasibility 
programmes;
 o Signature Medical, which secured an exclusive option to license patent rights from Boston University 
relating to technology for application on a wearable device enabling diagnosis and monitoring of 
heart failure during hospital therapy and post discharge; and
 o Vatic Materials, which closed post-period end following a decision not to exercise an option to 
license underlying technology due to an unsatisfactory due diligence outcome. 
 
HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED) Outlook for Selected Subsidiaries 
Several of our subsidiaries are nearing important commercial milestones.  Highlighted below are some of the 
key events we expect in 2017. It is in the nature of early stage investing that business plans need to adapt dy-
namically in response to changing circumstances. Where this becomes necessary we will provide an update 
on revised plans and timings. 
Subsidiary Expected 2017 Event
ABLS • Advance ABLS entities through pre-clinical programmes
• Create 2 new subsidiaries
BridgeSat • Complete Series A fund-raise
• Acquire launch customers
• Demonstrate operation of first BridgeSat ground station
Federated Wireless • Complete Series B fund-raise
• Receive formal SAS and ESC FCC certification
• Launch spectrum access commercial product
HawkEye 360 • Prepare for 2018 Pathfinder launch
• Initiate contract for development of next commercial satellite clusters
Precision Biopsy • Complete Cohort A; Initiate Cohort B 
• Progress ClariCore™ CE Mark and FDA approval
SciFluor • SF0166: complete Phase I/II trials in DME (AMD in 2018)
• SF0034: file IND and complete enrollment
STT • Advance technology to demonstrate differentiators
• Secure strategic development / investing partner
• Complete Series B fund-raise
HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
7
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
8
Board and Management Highlights 
The Group continued to evolve and strengthen its Board with the appointment of Jill Smith as an Independent 
Non-executive Director in January 2016. 
In addition to Chris Silva’s resignation as Chief Executive Officer on 10 March 2017, the Company accepted 
the resignation of Marc Eichenberger as Chief Operating Officer on 26 April 2017.
HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
