 08
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Review  
“We believe all our businesses have 
significant growth opportunities 
because of their strategic 
positioning in growing  
market niches and  
international potential”
Paul Hooper
Chief Executive
Our Performance: 
Continuing operations: 
Underlying operating profit
£8.5m
Underlying operating margin 
9.2%
Underlying profit before tax
£8.3m
 
T otal group (including discontinuing operations): 
Profit before tax
£7.7m The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic Report 09
Strategy
Alumasc’s strategic focus is to supply premium 
building products, systems and solutions with 
the objectives of:
1. Building strong positions in specialist niche 
markets where specifiers and end customers 
recognise the value added by our products 
and services
2. Growing group revenues on average at a 
faster rate than the UK construction market
3. Generating consistently superior financial 
returns, underpinned by strong operating 
margins and returns on investment.
All Alumasc businesses operate in niche 
segments that benefit from growing demand 
for one or more of the following:
1. The management of energy in the built 
environment
2. The management of water in the built 
environment
3. Bespoke solutions involving significant  
design input and technical expertise
4. Solutions that improve the efficiency  
and quality of the construction and 
installation process.
Alumasc leverages this strong strategic 
positioning through:
• The recruitment and development  
of talented people
• Fostering an innovative and  
entrepreneurial culture
• Dedicated management and sales focus  
for each niche market segment
• Developing synergies within the group
• The promotion of recognised and  
trusted brands
• The development of innovative products
• Expanding our geographical reach including 
internationally
• Prioritised investment: both in human and 
capital resources to support further growth  
in the business.
The above is illustrated in more detail in our 
business model on pages 14 and 15, and in the 
data illustrating our performance over the last 
five years on page 16, which demonstrates our 
track record of outperformance relative to the  
UK construction sector.
Overview of performance
Alumasc achieved its strategic ambition to 
become a focused supplier of niche building 
products at the end of the 2015/16 financial 
year, when the group sold its last remaining 
engineering products business, Dyson 
Diecastings.
Continuing operations
I am pleased to report Alumasc’s fifth successive 
year of profit and earnings growth. The results 
for the year from continuing building products 
operations were the second best on record:
• Group revenues increased by 2%  
to £92.2 million
• Underlying operating profit increased  
by 2% to £8.5 million
• We invested an incremental £1.2 million 
during the year mainly in additional sales 
resources to support the continued future 
growth in the business, the costs of which 
were absorbed within our operating profit  
for the year
• Underlying profit before tax grew by 7% to 
£8.3 million, benefiting from the increase in 
operating profit and lower interest costs on 
borrowings due to lower average levels of 
net debt during the year
• Underlying earnings per share grew by  
9% to 18.4 pence.
18%
7%
2%
30%
9%
25%
9%
Revenue by business segment Building Products’ revenue analysis  
by end user market 2015/16
The Francis Crick building in London is 
shaded by a Levolux system incorporating 
photovoltaic panels.
£17.4m
£8.6m
£27.6m
£40.1m
 Private Housing
 Public Non-residential
 Private Industrial
 Infrastructure
 Private Commercial
 Public Housing Repair and Maintenance
 Other Repair and Maintenance
Roofing and Walling
Water Management
House Building and Ancillary
Solar Shading and Screening 10
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Levolux’s trading performance was ahead of 
expectations set at the beginning of the year, 
reporting higher revenues and profits than in 
the prior year. This was despite there being only 
one project of above £1 million revenue being 
completed in its entirety during the financial year. 
More importantly, Levolux had an excellent year 
in broadening the market reach of the business 
including exports to North America, and also 
new products in the UK. This was reflected in 
closing order books at 30 June 2016 of £18.9 
million, a substantial increase of 21% on the 
position at the beginning of the financial year. 
Chief Executive’s Review 
in new capacity for Alumasc Water Management 
Solutions and Timloc, described further below, to 
fully realise this potential.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 3.8 pence per share (2014/15: 3.5 pence), 
taking the total dividend for the year to 6.5 
pence (2014/15: 6.0 pence), an increase of 8%.
The dividend will be paid, subject to 
shareholder approval at the AGM to be held 
on 27 October 2016, on 1 November to 
shareholders on the register on 7 October. 
Operational review
Health & safety
Alumasc’s priority is to provide a safe place 
for our employees to work. The group further 
improved its safety performance in the year and 
recorded its second best safety performance 
rate on record. Details are given in the 
Corporate & Social Responsibility report  
on pages 24 and 25. 
The quality of the group’ s earnings in the 2015/16 
financial year was high for a number of reasons:
• The majority of our businesses improved  
their profit in the year, with profitability  
far more evenly balanced throughout the 
group than has been the case in prior years, 
see chart 1 opposite.
• The impact of large projects on group revenues 
and on group results was far less than it 
has been in recent years. We estimate that 
revenues from day to day business, excluding 
the impact of projects worth £1 million or 
more, increased by 9% in the year. This was 
a far stronger performance than the headline 
figures suggest, see chart 2 opposite.
• Conversion of profit into operating cash flow 
was strong, with operating cash flow of £11.2 
million in excess of earnings before interest,  
tax, depreciation and amortisation (‘EBITDA’)  
of £9.7 million, see chart 3 opposite. 
Discontinued operations
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 
was £0.9 million, mainly arising from the gain 
on sale of the Dyson Diecastings business, which 
had traded at just above break-even levels for 
the year prior to its sale.
Statutory profit and earnings per share
Statutory profit before tax grew by 59% to £7.7 
million, benefiting from the growth in underlying 
profit, the £0.9 million profit from the sale of 
Dyson Diecastings and non-repeat of operating 
losses from the engineering products business 
sold towards the end of the prior year.
Basic earnings per share of 18.2 pence were 
48% ahead of the prior year’s 12.3 pence  
per share.
Outlook
The group’s positive momentum and rising 
order books, together with signs of recovery in 
the scheduling of larger construction projects 
referred to in the Chairman’s Statement, are 
encouraging signs for this financial year. The 
timing of the larger projects in the current order 
book suggests there could be a second half bias 
to this financial year’s performance.
More broadly, we believe all our businesses 
have significant medium and longer term 
growth opportunities because of their strategic 
positioning in growing market niches and 
international potential. 
As Alumasc’s building products business 
approaches record ever levels of revenue and 
profit, it will require continued investment in 
human resources, together with investment  
Solar shading and screening
• Revenue: £17.4 million (2014/15:  
£16.0 million), up 8%
• Underlying operating profit: £1.0 million 
(2014/15: £0.9 million), up 3%
• Underlying operating margin: 5.5% 
(2014/15: 5.8%).
2014/15
EBITDA
100
80
12
60
40
6
20
0
0
‘Underlying’ business
£1m+ revenue projects
2015/16
Operating  
Cash Flow
9.7
11.2
10%
14%
40%
36%
1%
33%
53%
13%
Strong quality of earnings in 2015/16
2015/16
2008/09
Roofing and Walling
Water Management
House Building and Ancillary
Solar Shading and Screening
1. More even distribution of 
profit across business segments
2. Strong underlying revenue growth, with the 
impact of large projects less significant in 2015/16
9% ‘underlying’ 
revenue growth
3. Operating cash flow 115% of EBITDA in 2015/16 The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic Report 11
Around a third of Levolux’s 30 June 2016 
order book is for export sales to North America 
and we expect this to be reflected in the 
sales mix later in the 2016/17 financial year. 
This is testament to the significant business 
development effort of recent years where 
Levolux has now established strong positions 
for the provision of premium and unique 
shading and screening solutions in a number  
of key regions in North America. Levolux plans 
to build on this success by adding two further 
vice presidents of sales in North America in  
the current financial year. 
When Alumasc acquired Levolux in 2007 
it was principally a UK solar shading and 
internal blinds business with the potential 
to expand its product range both in the UK 
and internationally. Ten years later it has been 
transformed into a business with a strong 
presence in both the UK and North America 
and that now provides: 
• Bespoke architectural solutions for architects 
and building owners encompassing innovative 
external façade and internal features
• Innovative screening solutions for otherwise 
architecturally uninteresting buildings such  
as power plants and car parks
• Bespoke balcony solutions, including off-site 
construction options, to prestige residential 
developments
• Unique solar shading solutions that, where 
specified, can include electronic automation 
and photovoltaics, enabling architects and 
building owners to manage and reduce 
energy use in buildings
• Bespoke internal blind solutions to reduce 
glare and improve the comfort of building 
occupants. 
This business segment performed strongly  
and remained the most profitable in the group, 
albeit with a marginally lower outturn for the 
year due to:
The new BREEAM ‘excellent’ 
rated Manchester Cancer 
Research Centre (MCRC) 
building, harnesses the latest 
building technology, including 
a custom solar shading and 
screening solution from Levolux.
Supporting sustainable 
construction
BREEAM (BRE Environmental 
Assessment Method) and 
LEED (Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design), 
are established, internationally 
recognised green building 
certification systems. The 
certifications promote sustainable 
building and development 
practices that exceed minimum 
environmental regulations  
and standards.
Both systems provide an assessment platform 
for a broad range of building categories at 
particular stages in their lifecycle with values 
assigned to factors such as design impact, 
carbon emissions, durability, resilience, 
biodiversity protection and ecological value.
By focusing on these key areas, architects and 
developers are able to identify those products 
with true environmental credentials, enabling 
the realisation of innovative, next generation 
buildings that make effective use of all 
resources and enhance the wellbeing of  
those who live and work within them.
Levolux’s shading systems and Alumasc’s 
aluminium and cast iron rainwater goods, 
civil drainage, fascia and soffit systems are 
examples of products that, due to their 
recyclability, low-carbon manufacture and 
responsible sourcing, can make a strong 
contribution to achieving high BREEAM and 
LEED ratings. Promotion of these ecologically-
balanced solutions bring benefits to the 
specification process, helping achieve the 
desired effect of minimising the environmental 
impact of the construction process.
Find out more at:
 www.breeam.com
 www.usgbc.org/leed
• Lower revenues and profits from the large 
£12 million Kitimat smelter refurbishment 
project, which was already substantially 
complete in the 2014/15 year, with only  
the final account settled in the 2015/16 
financial year
• Lower activity levels in England and Wales for 
exterior wall insulation following government 
funding cuts to the Eco and Green Deal 
schemes for social housing refurbishment work.
Our roofing business started the year more 
slowly than expected with delays caused by 
market-wide shortages of installation labour. 
However it recovered to have a much stronger 
second half of the year, with the core business 
reporting its best performance on record for the 
year as a whole and strong trading momentum 
in both new build and refurbishment markets 
carrying through into the new financial year. 
Further significant investment was made in high 
quality technical sales resources during the year, 
and the larger sales team is broadening the 
geographic reach of the business within the UK 
and is attracting higher levels of specifications 
for our products and solutions.
Alumasc Roofing is benefiting from the  
much wider product range introduced over  
the last few years, including the integration 
of the Blackdown green roofing and Roof-
Pro roofing services businesses into the core 
waterproofing business. This has been combined 
with a comprehensive service offer including 
the Alumasc Promise. This enables us to offer 
specifiers, main contractors and building owners 
high quality solutions that provide longevity and 
lower the life cycle costs of the roof, assist in 
the management of energy and water and help 
provide a safe roof environment.
Roofing & walling
• Revenue: £40.1 million (2014/15:  
£40.6 million), 1% down
• Underlying operating profit: £4.0 million 
(2014/15: £4.5 million), 11% down
• Underlying operating margin: 9.9% 
(2014/15: 11.0%). 12
The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Investment has been made in additional sales 
and management resources during the year 
and a new business system was successfully 
launched in October. These provide the 
firm foundations needed to further grow 
the business and enhance its reputation for 
excellent customer service.
Timloc leveraged revenue growth with further 
purchasing, manufacturing and warehousing 
efficiencies in the year, supported by investment 
in new plant and equipment, allowing the 
business to earn improved operating margins.  
A lease on a new expanded facility was signed 
in July 2016 to support plans to further grow 
the business. The new facility is planned to  
be available for occupation in late 2017.
Paul Hooper
Chief Executive
AWMS further developed its strategy to provide 
a comprehensive water management within 
the built environment offer to the marketplace, 
including the ‘Rain to Drain’ concept illustrated 
opposite, and is actively working with specifiers 
and industry bodies to help evolve our business 
to meet growing demand in this area. 
It remains the intention to relocate the AWMS 
business to a new facility in the Kettering area 
at capital cost of circa £10 million in the next 
two to three years, as this business approaches 
physical capacity.
The Gatic engineered access covers business 
had a solid year, but unusually and for no other 
reason than timing, did not benefit from any 
large £1 million or more revenue projects in 
2015/16 and therefore was unable to match the 
prior year’s financial performance. Encouragingly, 
there are now a number of large projects both in 
the order book and in the pipeline beyond that, 
mainly for export markets. 
Timloc Building Products goes from strength 
to strength, reporting another record year and 
continuing to out-perform a buoyant UK house 
building products sector through the addition 
of new products to its range and expansion  
of it its geographic reach within the UK.  
This business has close to trebled its operating 
profit since acquisition by Alumasc in 2004.
The first products in the new ‘Above the 
Roofline’ range were successfully launched in 
the second half of the year and the remainder 
of the products in this range will be rolled out 
in the coming months.
Our walling business had a transitional year 
as we invested in new sales resources and 
new products to build our positions in new 
build markets to offset the cuts to funded 
refurbishment work in England and Wales. 
The new build business began to gain traction 
towards the end of the financial year, with 
encouraging initial sales of the recently 
introduced Alumasc Base Coat Render and the 
Alumasc Ventilated System. The latter offers 
off-site construction options. We have also had 
interest from new export markets in the Middle 
East and initial sales were made in summer 
2016. The exterior wall insulation refurbishment 
business in Scotland remains very strong, 
supported by ongoing funding under the 
Scottish government’s HEEPS and forthcoming 
SEEPS schemes. 
The Alumasc Water Management Solutions 
(‘AWMS’) brand launched a year ago, which 
brought together in a holistic way our approach 
to the market for the Alumasc Rainwater, Harmer 
building drainage and Gatic civil drainage product 
ranges, was well received by customers and 
helped to drive a strong performance throughout 
most of the financial year. The new Gatic Filcoten 
and Harmer SML drainage products introduced a 
year ago, together with the new generation Gatic 
Slotdrain range introduced during the year each 
bedded in well.
The business was impacted by slowing UK 
economic growth rates towards the end of 
the financial year, including uncertainty ahead 
of the UK’s Referendum on membership of 
the European Union, where some investment 
decisions in the UK relating to new infrastructure 
and industrial projects were delayed affecting 
order intake and sales for Gatic Slotdrain 
in particular. We also began to see upward 
pressure on galvanised steel costs towards the 
end of the financial year as part of an apparent 
over-correction to recent global over supply, 
and this is expected to impact Gatic Slotdrain 
margins in at least the first part of the new 
financial year.
Chief Executive’s Review 
Water management
• Revenue: £27.6 million (2014/15:  
£27.0 million), up 2%
• Operating profit: £3.5 million (2014/15:  
£3.3 million), up 7%
• Operating margin: 12.7% (2014/15: 
12.1%).
House building and ancillary products
• Revenue: £8.6 million (2014/15:  
£7.8 million), up 10%
• Operating profit: £1.4 million (2014/15: 
£1.1 million), up 25%
• Operating margin: 16.6% (2014/15: 
14.6%). The Alumasc Group plc
Report and Accounts 2016
Governance
Financial Statements
Strategic Report 13
From Rain to Drain, 
Alumasc is leading  
the way
The challenge
Planning constraints on a new, larger lecture 
theatre for the University of Bristol meant 
that a new and innovative approach was 
needed to provide a cost effective solution. 
Planning stipulations were that there should 
be no increase in the amount of excess water 
that was discharged into the existing drain 
infrastructure.
The solution
Alumasc’s pioneering BluRoof waterproofing 
system was used, making this the first 
ever BluRoof installation in the UK. 
Alumasc’s BluRoof is a new concept in 
water management, offering the combined 
400m
2
 
of the innovative BluRoof system 
was installed on this University of 
Bristol Lecture Theatre.
expertise of Alumasc Roofing Systems and 
Harmer Engineered Drainage Systems in order 
to manage the rate of water discharge from 
the roof. As part of the project, 400m
2
 of 
the innovative BluRoof system was installed, 
along with a Blackdown fully bio-diverse 
Green Roof system also from Alumasc.
The combination of Alumasc’s BluRoof and 
Blackdown Green Roof systems meant that 
the retention of storm water in the green 
roof’s build-up – i.e. the plants, substrate 
and drainage/reservoir layer – complemented 
the detention of storm water by the 
BluRoof, thus releasing valuable additional 
downstream drainage capacity and avoiding 
the need for additional attenuation tanks in 
Bristol City Centre.
From Rain to Drain
Alumasc businesses work together 
to provide a comprehensive water 
management solution within  
the built environment. 
Our ‘Rain to Drain’ concept  
illustrates how our systems manage 
water originating both outside and 
within a building, through to its 
discharge into water courses,  
sewers or the ground.
Find out more here:
 alumascwms.co.uk
