 Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
09
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
Adjusted diluted EPS
1
 for 2016
50.4p
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Amec Foster Wheeler has many strengths, including the quality 
of its people, its brand and reputation and the truly impressive 
core consulting and engineering it offers its customers. 
However, when I joined last June, it was immediately apparent 
to me that significant change was required. The Company 
needed to win more business, reduce its debt and cost base, 
and refresh its strategy. Most importantly of all, we needed  
to generate sustainable free cash flow again.
We have seen material declines in natural resources markets 
over recent years and conditions in these markets remain 
challenging. The oil and gas market is currently oversupplied 
and customers are curtailing their upstream capital investment, 
focusing on the most cost-effective resources. Industry 
forecasts show upstream capex only growing moderately in 
2017 , with a strong outlook for onshore unconventional plays in 
the US and a weaker outlook for the rest of the world. Estimates 
of 2017 capex in mining are equivalent to the spend in 2007 . 
In these conditions, doing nothing was not an option.  
We therefore approached our task with a real sense of urgency, 
launching our Company-wide transformation programme  
in August 2016.
Strengthening the balance sheet
The purpose of the transformation programme is to strengthen 
the balance sheet and put Amec Foster Wheeler on a 
sustainable growth trajectory.
As part of the programme, we are continuing to dispose of 
our non-core assets. The disposal of the major part of the GPG,  
the circulating fluidised bed boiler business, is now expected 
to close in June 2017 . We have completed the sale of a 
number of smaller assets and announced the disposal of 
our nuclear business. We also have agreements to sell three 
infrastructure assets. 
As the Chairman has outlined in his statement, we were close 
to launching a rights issue and had decided to suspend the 
dividend until we are generating sustainable free cash flow 
when the offer from John Wood Group was announced.
Offer from John Wood Group
The proposed combination with John Wood Group means 
that a rights issue is no longer necessary and we expect our 
shareholders to benefit from John Wood Group’s progressive 
dividend payments. 
The combination with John Wood Group adds to the standalone 
prospects of the Company and will allow our shareholders to 
benefit from significant cost synergies.
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190)
Amec F oster Wheeler 
has many strengths, 
including its brand 
and reputation.
Order book
£5.8bn
Jon Lewis
Chief Executive Officer  10
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Notwithstanding current 
market conditions, we see 
long-term growth potential 
in each of the four markets 
we serve.
The global business lines 
model holds the leadership 
of each line accountable 
for penetrating all their 
markets around the world.
Delivering 
excellence is 
a key theme 
of our work.
Adapting the business model and delivering excellence
While we have faced tough markets, it is also clear that 
many of our other challenges can be rectified through the 
improvement of our practices and procedures in order to 
increase performance. Delivering excellence is a key theme of 
our work. We need to be consistent around the world and share 
best practice across the business. We also need to ensure there 
is accountability, discipline and operational control. 
We must be more cost effective, so we never lose work on 
price alone. This includes making greater use of our Indian 
engineering operations and sharing work between offices 
more effectively. We also identified that we need to be more 
customer-centric, so that rather than going to customers with 
what we want to sell, we identify the value proposition and pitch 
for work based on what the customer is looking for. Innovation 
and technology also have an important part to play, both in 
enhancing our offering to customers and improving our own 
efficiency and effectiveness.
The new organisational structure is an important step towards 
achieving these goals. By focusing on our four markets, we 
are much more aligned to our customers’ needs and better 
positioned to ensure global consistency in delivering projects 
and solutions. Business Development, which has been 
underinvested in the past, is now embedded in our business 
lines, locating it as close as possible to the customer.
Simplifying our business and moving away from the previous 
semi-autonomous geographical model will help us to share 
innovation and best practice around the Company. For example, 
our highly effective More4Less value engineering approach 
(developed for the North Sea market) gives customers a 
real solution for reducing their capex and opex, sometimes 
by as much as 40%. However, we have not effectively 
internationalised it. The global business lines model holds the 
leadership of each line accountable for penetrating all of their 
markets around the world.
Our new organisation is also considerably leaner, removing 
multiple levels of management and duplication of functions, 
so we are more competitive and better able to bid and win work. 
We have removed around 650 overhead management roles 
which will leave us with no more than two layers between me 
and our projects. The introduction of our new operating model 
is bringing more operational rigour to the business, with a single 
set of policies, procedures and systems. The Company currently 
has numerous back office IT systems which add unnecessary 
complexity to our operations. We are continuing to invest in 
our Human Resources planning software where the business 
case for this investment is compelling, as it will streamline our 
operations and drive best practice. We have decided to put 
on hold our planned investment in new enterprise resource 
planning (ERP) software pending the completion of the offer 
from John Wood Group.
Investment in our functions is another key element of our 
new structure. We have created four new technical functions 
which are common across our business lines – Engineering 
& T echnical, Supply Chain & Procurement, Construction 
& Commissioning and Project Management & Controls. 
These functions are embedded in the business lines,   Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
11
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Additional information
People and culture
As a people-based business, attracting, developing and retaining 
key talent is at the heart of everything we do. We want Amec Foster 
Wheeler to be known as ‘the place to work’ , where we celebrate 
talent, innovation, success and diversity, and reward and provide 
career advancement based on contribution and performance.
I believe that businesses with engaged employees perform 
better, so it is vitally important that we understand the views 
of our people. In recent months, we have undertaken several 
surveys to ascertain their views, helping us to design our new 
organisational model.
Our plans for the Company can only succeed if we have the 
right culture. The People section on page 25 describes the 
culture we are instilling as a central part of our transformation 
programme, in conjunction with significant improvements 
to staff communications.
2016 performance
Given the conditions in natural resources end markets, our 
2016 trading performance was robust, as we benefited from 
the breadth of our diverse business – especially the record 
performance from solar, cost saving actions and the fall in 
sterling in the second half of the year. We delivered a trading 
profit
1
 of £318m (2015: £374m) on revenues of £5,440m 
(2015: £5,455m), resulting in a trading margin of 5.8%. This 
contributed to adjusted diluted earnings per share
1
 of 50.4p 
(2015: 67 .7p). Net debt increased from £946m to £1,021m 
at 31 December 2016. More information on our financial 
performance can be found in the Financial Review on  
pages 34 to 45.
We continued to win a wide range of work across our markets. 
Details of selected contract wins announced in the year and a 
breakdown of our year-end order book can be found on page 24.
Outlook
We made a solid start to our transformation programme  
in the second half of 2016.
2017 will be a year when we embed these changes within  
Amec Foster Wheeler. Standard policies, procedures and 
systems across the Company will help us to better serve our 
customers. In addition, we will continue with the non-core asset 
disposal programme.
We continue to expect another year of oil and gas decline in 2017 
and for solar activity to reduce significantly from the record 
levels seen in 2016. It is also expected that there will be a better 
performance from environment and infrastructure and a further 
significant contribution from standalone overhead cost savings. 
This year, we will continue to leverage the outstanding technical 
expertise of our people to best serve our customers and deliver 
projects safely across all the markets in which we operate. 
This and the improvements we have made to the business will 
ensure we continue to make significant progress in 2017 .
 
 
Jon Lewis
Chief Executive Officer 
25 April 2017
so they can provide the right support and oversight in each 
market while driving consistent and predictable outcomes. 
Business functions such as Finance and HR also now have 
a direct reporting line into the same functions at Company 
level. The goal is to drive standardisation and common 
policies and procedures, and ensure they are embraced 
across the organisation.
In creating our new structure, we have identified in excess 
of £100m of cost that we can sustainably remove from our 
overheads. After investing in more efficient tools, processes 
and systems, this will result in a benefit of £100m to our bottom 
line each year. We expect a good proportion of these savings to 
come through in 2017 , with the full run rate achieved by 2019. 
Maximising opportunities
Notwithstanding current market conditions, we see long-term 
growth potential in each of the four markets we serve. We have 
refreshed our business line strategies to focus on the areas with 
the greatest opportunity.
An important part of this will be expanding our role on projects, 
making it routine that we pull through more services than just 
the original contract scope. We aim to increase our exposure to 
opex and mature assets and have a globally balanced portfolio 
of contracts, with a mix of greenfield and opex. Our ability to 
differentiate ourselves through innovative solutions and sharing 
best practice, whilst remaining cost competitive, will be key.
Creating partnerships will also help us to share risk and enter 
new markets. For example, we are talking to manufacturers of 
specialist equipment with a view to providing a joint offering 
that combines their technology with our capabilities in 
installation, operations and maintenance.
The changes we are making to our short-term incentive plans 
will reward the behaviours we need to deliver our transformation 
dependent on delivery of financial and non-financial metrics 
as well as individual targets. 
Building Responsibly 
The diversity and complexity of our projects across our markets 
and value chain means that we can encounter degrees of risk 
relating to modern slavery. In December 2016, we published 
our first Slavery and Human T raffic statement, as we have a 
responsibility to ensure that our own employees, together 
with the workers in our value chain, are not victims of slavery; 
whether it is human trafficking or forced and bonded labour.  
The publishing of our statement sets out the baseline from which 
we can continue to drive awareness and implement a programme 
of continuous improvement to help tackle this issue.
Building upon our commitment to deliver projects and 
operations safely in the countries we operate in, I am proud that 
Amec Foster Wheeler was one of the six founding companies 
within the engineering and construction sector for the Building 
Responsibly initiative. The initiative seeks to develop and share 
best practice, as well as agree on common approaches and 
standards to respect rights and improve the welfare of workers 
within their operations. We have included a key performance 
indicator on page 23 which recognises the importance of this 
issue for the Company. 
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190) 12
Our success in servicing the solar energy market 
has grown steadily since we first entered the 
market in 2008. In less than 10 years, we have 
designed and built nearly 30 solar energy 
facilities and installed over 1.63 gigawatts direct 
current (GW dc) of solar energy projects across 
North America.
T oday, we are recognised as a leading solar 
power contractor in the US by Engineering News 
Record and one of the top tier solar engineering, 
procurement and construction companies in 
North America by Solar P ower W orld.
Our employees installing 
solar panels on the Arizona 
Public Service solar project 
in Yuma, Arizona, US. Financials Governance Strategic report: overview
13
Additional information
Connected
excellence
thr ough the 
skills and 
e xpertis e o f 
our people
