 53
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Financials Governance Strategic report Additional information
The Chairman and  
Chief Executive Officer
The Company does not combine the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer. There is a clear and well-defined division 
of accountability and responsibility between the roles of the 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and these are set out 
in writing and have been agreed by the board. The consequence 
of this clear division of responsibility at the head of the Company 
is such that no individual has unrestricted powers of decision. 
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are committed to 
ensuring the development and maintenance of an effective 
and trusting relationship with the appropriate balance 
between challenge and support.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and 
effectiveness of the board. He is accountable for promoting 
effective board relationships and the participation of all 
board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness 
and debate and enable the board to fulfil all aspects of its 
role. The Chairman has undertaken to ensure that the board 
discharges its duties to promote the success of the Company 
for the benefit of all stakeholders and to guide Amec Foster 
Wheeler’s business and conduct in accordance with the 
highest ethical standards. 
Each year the Chairman produces a board plan intended to 
summarise the board’s activities in executing its duties during 
the year. The plan highlights the priorities the board has 
identified for the year, and those of the Chief Executive Officer, 
and can be modified to take account of any unscheduled 
developments. In chairing and setting the agenda for board 
meetings, the Chairman ensures sufficient time is available for 
discussion and meaningful challenge in areas such as strategy, 
performance, value creation and accountability.
Subject to matters reserved for the board, the Chief Executive 
Officer is responsible for the leadership of Amec Foster Wheeler’s 
businesses with the primary objective of creating shareholder 
value. Consistent with this objective, overall operational 
management is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer who, 
together with the Executive Committee, is responsible for the 
proposal, development and implementation of the Group’s overall 
strategy, driving execution, growing markets and customers 
and developing our people. The building and maintenance of 
an effective executive management team, and the allocation 
of responsibility therein, are key components of and essential 
to the performance of the Chief Executive Officer’s role.
The Chief Executive Officer also takes the lead role in the 
promotion of Amec Foster Wheeler, setting the tone in the 
realisation of the Company’s vision and values and encouraging 
the highest standards of health, safety, security, environmental 
and ethical performance.
 
Colin Day has acted as the board’s Senior Independent Director 
since the retirement of Neil Carson on 31 December 2016. 
Colin was selected for the role on account of his significant 
knowledge of Amec Foster Wheeler and its operations and 
his experience as a director of international companies. 
Both the nominations committee and the board considered 
that Colin best met the criteria required for the role. 
The Senior Independent Director is responsible for:
 X providing additional support to and acting as a sounding 
board for the Chairman on board-related matters
 X acting as an additional channel of communication between 
the Chairman and the other directors where necessary
 X being available to shareholders for concerns they may have 
that have not been resolved through the normal channels 
of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or other executive 
directors, or which are not appropriate to raise through 
these channels
 X acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and 
concerns of Amec Foster Wheeler’s shareholders through 
attendance at a sufficient number of meetings with the 
company’s major shareholders and financial analysts
 X at least annually establishing the views of the non-executive 
directors as to the performance of the Chairman
 X following completion of the above evaluation exercise, 
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance
 X overseeing the search for a new Chairman, as required
Senior Independent Director
