 08
Amec F oster Wheeler 
Annual report and accounts 2016
Y our Company’s performance
The Company delivered a resilient trading performance  
in the face of tough market conditions, especially in oil and  
gas and mining. Our trading profit
1
 in 2016 was £318m,  
down 15% from the £374m we achieved in 2015, but in line  
with our expectations for the year. 
In August, the board declared an interim dividend of 7 .4p per 
share, which was paid in January 2017 . This was half the 14.8p 
per share paid for the same period in 2015, which is in line with 
the board’s guidance from the end of 2015. As indicated above, 
the board has not recommended a final dividend in respect  
of 2016.
Offer from John Wood Group
In March 2017 , the board recommended an all-share offer for 
the entire issued and to be issued share capital of the Company 
from John Wood Group. Whilst Amec Foster Wheeler, under the 
leadership of Jon Lewis, has developed a comprehensive 
strategy and transformation programme to deliver the 
appropriate balance sheet to support its standalone prospects, 
the board believes that a combination with John Wood Group 
will accelerate the delivery of the future value inherent in the 
Company and help to realise the full potential of both companies.
The offer will allow our shareholders to benefit from the 
significant synergies and other strategic benefits which are 
expected to be realised from the enlarged group. 
Y our board
Following Jon Lewis’ appointment as Chief Executive Officer, 
Ian McHoul ceased to be interim Chief Executive Officer and 
remained as Chief Financial Officer.
Neil Carson retired from the board on 31 December 2016, after 
six years as a non-executive director. In addition, Kent Masters, 
who was appointed as non-executive director on 13 February 
2015, will step down following the conclusion of the AGM. I want 
to thank both Neil and Kent for their considerable contribution 
during their time on the board. Colin Day replaced Neil as your 
Senior Independent Director. Roy Franklin was appointed as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and also joined the 
Audit Committee. Bob Card was appointed a non-executive 
director on 1 March 2017 for an initial term of three years,  
which will end at the 2020 AGM.
Conclusion
Jon Lewis and his senior team have made substantial progress 
towards the transformation of the business and I want to thank 
them and all of our employees for their hard work during a 
challenging year. The board believes that combining with John 
Wood Group will accelerate the delivery of the results from the 
transformation programme and allow shareholders to benefit 
from the synergies which are expected of the enlarged group.
 
John Connolly 
Chairman 
25 April 2017
Chairman’s statement
2016 was a year of considerable change for Amec Foster 
Wheeler and we made very good progress in developing our 
plans to position the Company for the future. We have also 
made an encouraging start to implementing these changes.
The year began with Samir Brikho’s departure as Chief Executive 
Officer on 17 January, as I described in my statement in the 
2015 annual report. Ian McHoul stepped in to be interim 
Chief Executive Officer and the board began the search for a 
permanent replacement. After a thorough selection process,  
we were delighted to appoint Dr Jonathan (Jon) Lewis, who joined 
us on 1 June. Jon has 30 years’ experience in the oil and gas 
industry, including 20 years as a senior executive at Halliburton. 
He has a track record of safe and ethical operations, market 
insight, strong leadership as well as commercial discipline. These 
qualities are already proving highly valuable to your Company.
Jon started with a review of the Company’s strategy, 
organisation and cost base, after which he launched a 
comprehensive transformation programme to fundamentally 
improve the performance and growth of the Company. More 
details on this programme can be found in his statement on 
the following pages. The board believed that a greater focus 
on operational performance, cost and delivering excellence for 
customers was a necessary first step to putting Amec Foster 
Wheeler back on the path to growth. 
A critical part of securing the Company’s future was to ensure  
it has the financial strength and flexibility it needs. At the time  
of acquiring Foster Wheeler in 2014, the Company believed  
it would generate sufficient cash to significantly reduce its net 
debt. The downturn in the oil price and the general decline in the 
sector however contributed to a combination of lower cash and 
profit generation that resulted in gearing (calculated as the ratio 
of net debt to EBITDA) of 3.3 at 31 December 2016. 
In order to provide the Company with financial and operational 
flexibility to implement its new strategy and to strengthen 
the balance sheet, the board was preparing to launch a rights 
issue of approximately £500m on 21 March 2017 , as well as 
continuing the programme of disposals and has decided to 
suspend dividend payments (including the final dividend for 
2016) until the Company is generating sustainable free cash 
flow. In light of the offer from John Wood Group referred to 
below, the preparations for the rights issue were suspended. 
The Company has increased its leverage ratio covenant within 
its debt facilities to provide additional headroom. Good progress 
has been made on the non-core asset disposal programme and 
the board launched a process to sell the Company’s nuclear 
operations in December 2016 which is expected to conclude 
in Q3, 2017 .
John Connolly
Chairman
1 Non-IFRS measure (see Performance measures on pages 188 to 190)
