 Return on equity
-8.6%
2010: 13.9%
Dividend
23.0p
2010: 23.0p
Total shareholder return (five year index)
124%
2010: 205%
“ In a difficult year, the strength of our balance sheet and the quality of 
our people enabled us to rise to the challenge of multiple catastrophe 
events and demonstrate our commitment to our clients. We are well 
positioned to benefit from improving markets.”
 Roger Taylor, Chairman
Chairman’s statement
Providing continuity to our clients
Results and dividend
2011 was an exceptional year for catastrophe 
losses, both in terms of scale and location. For 
the first time we encountered record natural 
catastrophe losses mainly from outside the US, 
including in what were viewed as non-peak 
zones for catastrophe exposures. In total, 
earthquakes in New Zealand and Japan and 
severe weather related events, including US 
tornadoes and floods in Australia, Denmark 
and Thailand, cost Amlin £500.8 million on  
a net basis. In addition to this wide ranging  
loss activity, we were also managing assets  
in a difficult and volatile environment with 
historically low interest rates, which adversely 
affected the investment return achieved. 
Overall, we were disappointed to report a 
pre-tax loss of £193.8 million and a negative 
return on equity of 8.6%. It is our business to 
pay claims and prompt settlement following 
catastrophes is the most practical way of 
helping our clients and the communities they 
serve to recover from such events. It is a 
testimony to the quality of our organisation 
that we have been delivering a high level of 
service to clients in this regard, so maintaining 
our strong market reputation.
In years when catastrophe activity is low or 
average, the margins available to us on the 
catastrophe account, combined with the 
profitability of the rest of the portfolio, are 
reflected in high returns. Despite the 
negative return on equity for 2011, our five 
year average return on equity of 14.7% is 
only slightly below our cross-cycle target of 
15% and over a ten year cycle since 2002, 
which includes previous severe catastrophe 
losses in 2005 and 2008, it remains well 
above target at 18.0%.
We remain focused on managing the 
business to produce excellent cross cycle 
returns for shareholders. The strength of our 
balance sheet has allowed us to meet  
our obligations to policyholders quickly and 
fairly and move forward with ample capital 
into an improving trading environment. Our 
confidence in the outlook for the business  
is reflected in the decision of the Board to 
propose a final dividend of 15.8 pence per 
share (2010:15.8p), thus maintaining the 
total dividend declared at the same level as 
2010, despite being uncovered by earnings. 
The final dividend will be paid on 24 May 
2012, subject to shareholder approval,  
to shareholders on the register on 10 April 
2012. In the longer term, our goal remains  
to steadily grow the dividend.
It has been part of our long term strategy  
to underwrite a balanced portfolio of US and 
international catastrophe reinsurance. As a 
result, in 2011 we incurred disproportionately 
greater losses than some of our more 
US-focused peers. However, this international 
catastrophe portfolio has generated a good 
return over the longer term and provided a 
valuable counterbalance to our US exposures. 
We are confident it will continue to do so in 
the future. 
Our major catastrophe claims in 2011 were 
mainly the result of earthquakes. A feature of 
earthquake claims is that it is very difficult to 
crystallise initial loss estimates and these were 
no exception, causing us to revise estimates 
during the year. We have taken the opportunity 
in our 2012 plans to modify risk appetite  
by purchasing more outwards reinsurance, 
particularly for Amlin Bermuda. 
While catastrophe claims loomed large,  
it was also not an easy year for large risk 
losses. ACI, in particular, experienced an 
unusual concentration of large losses in the 
first half of the year, which adversely affected 
its full year result. 
12 Governance and the Board
The Board believes that high standards of 
Corporate Governance are intrinsic to Amlin’s 
culture and values. We have further developed 
our strong culture of accountability through a 
review of our executive processes and the 
subsequent interaction throughout the 
organisation and with our subsidiary boards. 
Through the work of the Audit Committee 
chaired by Nigel Buchanan, our Senior 
Independent Director, and the Risk & Solvency 
Committee, led by Richard Davey, the Board 
has been updated on pertinent matters in 
what is an increasingly complex regulatory 
environment, allowing the Board to focus  
on challenging and encouraging executive 
management and on the strategy for the 
Group as a whole. 
During 2010, the Board, upon the 
recommendation of the Nomination 
Committee, identified the need to recruit  
an additional member, which culminated  
in the appointment of Sir Alan Collins as a 
non-executive director on 14 November 2011.  
Sir Alan, who has had a distinguished career  
in HM Diplomatic Service, brings a wide 
experience of promoting international business 
activity, which will broaden the diversity of  
skills on the Board. 
At the AGM in May all of the directors are 
standing for re-election (as we announced  
last year), other than Sir Alan Collins who is 
standing for election and myself. I am confident 
in recommending to shareholders, following 
individual as well as collective evaluation, that 
the Board possess the necessary skills and 
diversity of experience that a complex insurer 
like Amlin requires. 
I was elected as a director and appointed 
Chairman of Amlin on its formation from the 
merger of Angerstein and Murray Lawrence  
in 1998 and it is my intention to retire  
at the AGM in May. Succession planning,  
led by Nigel Buchanan in his capacity as  
Senior Independent Director, resulted in  
the Board inviting Richard Davey to serve  
as Chairman immediately following the AGM  
on 17 May 2012. Richard Davey is an 
outstanding financier and very capable 
director, who I have every confidence will  
be an excellent Chairman of Amlin. 
Strategic progress
Despite the challenges posed by catastrophe 
events and financial market upheaval during 
2011, management continued to focus on 
the development of the business and the 
delivery of our strategic vision for profitable 
long term growth.
Amlin Re Europe, which started underwriting in 
October 2010, got off to an excellent start and 
has the potential to develop into an important 
longer term earnings stream for the Group.  
We also continued to make targeted small 
acquisitions, with J R Clare and Lead Yacht 
further broadening the scope of business 
written by Amlin UK and Amlin London 
respectively. The underwriting ratios obtained 
by Amlin London in their principal lines of 
business, other than catastrophe reinsurance, 
were similar to the previous year, a particularly 
good performance in difficult market 
conditions. Amlin UK continued to grow its 
motor and property accounts as pricing 
improved, benefiting from previous investment 
in underwriting and distribution.
ACI remained a key focus during the year. Its 
disappointing result for 2011 does not reflect 
the sustained effort and substantial resource 
being applied both within ACI and the wider 
Group to integrate and improve this business. 
Step by step progress towards sustainable 
profitability is being made and we remain 
confident of ACI’s strategic value to Amlin over 
the longer term.
Elsewhere, excellent progress was made in a 
number of key areas, notably our preparations 
for Solvency II. The tangible benefits to the 
business realised so far from implementing our 
Target Operating Model already outweigh our 
investment in its development. Over the longer 
term, we anticipate significant further 
advantage, particularly in risk management 
and capital efficiency. This programme has 
required the co-operation of colleagues from a 
range of disciplines and locations across the 
Group and its success is an excellent example 
of the teamwork which is one of our core 
values. Actuaries, risk modellers, accountants, 
IT specialists and other professionals 
throughout the business play important roles in 
supporting our underwriters. We continue to 
invest in high calibre people across these 
disciplines to ensure that we are resourced to 
support a larger and more diverse business. 
Outlook
Many of the investments made in recent years 
in new teams, niche acquisitions and better 
operational capabilities have been against a 
backdrop of softening market conditions, with 
a view to positioning the business to grow as 
and when the trading environment improves. 
Now that we are seeing an upward trend in 
pricing in much of Amlin’s portfolio, albeit not 
a hardening market across all lines, we are well 
placed. The broader scope of the business, 
with three well capitalised underwriting 
platforms, gives us greater flexibility to manage 
exposures and the cycle, as well as creating 
more opportunities for profitable growth.
The Amlin team 
As Chairman of Amlin I have witnessed many 
aspects of the Group’s remarkable 
development. However, a key to our success 
has been our ability to retain, recruit and 
develop talented individuals in all aspects  
of our business, from front line underwriting  
to the key support services. I have personally 
taken great pleasure seeing people flourish  
in their careers at Amlin, but also welcomed 
many excellent new staff who have joined our 
various operations as they have developed, 
both in the UK and internationally. I can 
assure shareholders that Amlin has a stronger 
team today than ever before and I take pride 
in them all. 
2011 was a challenging year, with major losses 
following one after the other, yet the staff 
remained motivated, delivering on their plans 
for the year and ensuring that Amlin was 
positioned to seize opportunities as markets 
reacted to events. 
A great team needs good leadership and  
in an unexpectedly tough year, Charles Philipps 
and his colleagues have responded admirably. 
We are in good heart and I would like to thank 
Charles, his management colleagues and  
all our employees for their hard work  
and resourcefulness. 
It has been a privilege to serve the  
shareholders as Chairman of Amlin, but it has 
also been a pleasure to work with a first class 
team of insurance industry professionals. 
Roger Taylor
Chairman
Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements
13
Amlin plc Annual Report 2011
