 16
Amlin plc Annual Report 2009
Once again, the Group’s 
ﬁnancial performance 
in 2009 was excellent, 
reﬂecting the quality 
of our underwriting 
businesses and a 
recovery in investment 
markets. We also 
made signiﬁcant 
progress strategically, 
most notably with the 
acquisition of the Fortis 
Group’s commercial 
insurance operations in 
the Benelux countries, 
which now trade 
as Amlin Corporate 
Insurance.
A year of growth and delivery
Chief Executive’s review
Financial results
2009 profit before tax, at £509.1 million, was 
a record for the Group (2008: £121.6 million). 
Our return on equity of 37.0% brings our 
average return to 25.6% since we first set 
our cross-cycle target of at least 15% per 
annum back in 2001 (2008: 7.8% and 
22.4% respectively).
As anticipated, we achieved price increases 
across many lines of business, particularly in 
catastrophe reinsurance. This, combined with 
few large catastrophe losses during the year, 
helped us to record an excellent combined 
ratio of 72% (2008: 76%) and, with a stronger 
US dollar relative to sterling, our highest yet 
contribution from underwriting of £365.8 
million (2008: £222.2 million). 
Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda 
contributed £185.0 million and £161.8 million 
respectively to the underwriting return (2008: 
£174.4 million and £46.2 million respectively) 
with a smaller contribution from Amlin 
Corporate Insurance (ACI) of £11.2 million.
Having taken a cautious approach to our 
investments in 2008, given the economic 
environment which resulted from the credit 
crunch, we were in a good position in early 
2009 to increase our exposure to risk assets 
given the low returns offered by UK gilts and 
US treasuries. With the tightening of credit 
spreads seen in the second half, record 
investment returns of £207.5 million were 
achieved (2008: £18.0 million).
Outlook
The restoration of financial strength across 
much of the insurance industry during 2009 
is affecting our ability to raise rates in 2010 
and leading to downward pressure in some 
classes. That said, markets appear to be 
demonstrating good levels of discipline 
in many areas and rate reductions over 
1 January renewals, which represent an 
estimated 20% of the year’s premiums, 
averaged only 1.2%. US catastrophe 
reinsurance rates were down 4.4% on 
peak prices achieved following the 2008 
hurricanes. However, rate increases were 
achieved in some loss-affected areas, 
particularly in France and Australia, and this 
helped balance the reductions. We have 
witnessed improving conditions in our UK 
commercial business and expect this to 
continue during 2010. This, combined with 
the improving airline rates achieved in the 
last quarter of 2009, should help offset the 
modest weakening in other areas.
Premium income levels in 2010 will benefit 
from the consolidation of ACI for a full year 
and from the actions taken to enhance the 
growth potential of Amlin UK. We anticipate 
overall premium growth of some 42% in 
the year.
We remain cautious about the economic 
outlook, and having benefited from tighter 
credit spreads in 2009, it will be more difficult 
to achieve good investment returns in 2010. 
We nevertheless believe that we are well 
Charles Philipps
Chief Executive 17
www.amlin.com
1. Overview 03
2. Strategy 15
3. Performance 25
4. Governance 73
5. Financial statements 113
6. Shareholder information 201
Key highlights in 2009
•  Record proﬁ t before tax of £509.1 million.
• New organisational structure operating effectively.
•  Recruitment to increase strength and depth of Group operations.
•  Acquisition of Fortis Corporate Insurance. Integration progressing well.
•  Positioning of Amlin UK for further growth.
• Preparing to reap the beneﬁ ts of Solvency II.
• Ipsos MORI employee opinion survey shows excellent results.
placed to achieve an overall return on equity 
which is above our cross-cycle target of at 
least 15%.
Capital strength
Net tangible assets increased by 29.3% to 
£1.4 billion during 2009, after £58.5 million 
spent on goodwill and intangibles associated 
with acquisitions and dividends paid of 
£83.8 million. We remain in a robust fi nancial 
position with capital and available resources 
of £655.5 million in excess of our assessed 
capital requirements. This will support 
organic growth, gives us the ability to make 
further strategic acquisitions, and leaves 
us well placed to continue to steadily grow 
the dividend even if earnings are adversely 
affected by signifi cant catastrophe losses.
There is no doubt that our capital strength, 
which supports favourable insurance 
security ratings relative to many competitors, 
contributes to Amlin being a favoured market 
for brokers and insureds. This is evidenced 
by our ability to retain income in markets 
where capacity has increased materially 
in 2009.
Amlin Corporate Insurance
The acquisition of ACI, for consideration 
of €350 million, was completed in July, 
providing us with an excellent entry to the 
Benelux markets where it is the leading 
commercial lines insurer. Following the 
growth of our catastrophe income and 
exposures over recent years, resulting largely 
from the success of Amlin Bermuda which 
we started in 2005, ACI added £225.2 million 
of diversifi ed income to the Group in 2009, 
so bringing greater balance to overall risk 
exposures and scope to further grow our 
reinsurance business in the future. 
While the Benelux market has been 
competitive over the last two years and 
performance was affected by the company’s 
nationalisation by the Dutch state in October 
2008, ACI has a good longer-term track 
record and we are confi dent that it is 
capable of delivering a long-term return in 
line with Amlin’s cross-cycle return target 
of at least 15%.
The acquisition by Amlin resulted in an 
immediate improvement in ACI’s security 
ratings which refl ects the benefi t of 
becoming part of the Amlin Group.
Work on integrating the company has 
proceeded at pace with the intention, over 
the next two years, of replacing those 
services which have historically been 
provided by other parts of the Fortis Group 
and ensuring that Amlin’s standards of risk 
management are applied to this business. 
The management of ACI’s investment 
portfolio was integrated into the Group 
portfolio shortly after the year end. The 
merger of its French business with Anglo 
French Underwriters, which we acquired 
in 2008, is on track for completion in April. 
This will create a business with increased 
market penetration and effi ciencies as it 
grows from a combined premium income 
of €54.4 million.
A key component of integration will be 
the transition, by June 2011, to Amlin’s 
underwriting systems. This will improve 
controls and provide materially better and 
more timely management information on 
both performance and risk. We believe that 
this, and our considerable experience in ACI’s 
business classes, will result in increased 
performance potential and a better platform 
for further growth in continental Europe.
Post acquisition, approximately 64% of ACI’s 
business was marine insurance, bringing 
marine to approximately 14% of Amlin’s 
overall business in 2009. We anticipate this 
will grow further in 2010. This reinforces our 
relevance to brokers and insureds in this area 
and places us amongst the leading marine 
underwriters in the world. 
As recognised at the time of acquisition, the 
ocean hull and marine cargo parts of ACI’s 
account required corrective action which 
had commenced before acquisition. This is 
resulting in a contraction of income in these 
classes as ACI declines risks where it cannot 
achieve satisfactory pricing. The company 
has also reorganised the management 
structure of its marine underwriting in 
Rotterdam, bringing it more into line with 
Amlin’s focus on the accountability of line 
underwriters and underwriting profi tability. 18
Amlin plc Annual Report 2009
Amlin UK
Strategic investment for today and for the future
In response to changes in the UK market and in anticipation of an upturn in UK 
commercial markets, we have taken a number of steps in the past 18 months to 
strengthen our UK proposition.
• We have made signifi cant investment in our UK marketing capability.
• We have increased the recognition of Amlin’s brand in the UK, now supported 
by Amlin’s sponsorship of European rugby.
• We have continued to expand our property insurance business and successfully 
hired a new team of property underwriters.
• We have selectively increased our alignment with UK brokers such as Miles Smith 
and TL Dallas.
• In January 2010, we acquired Lockton’s insolvency scheme business.
It was a sign of confi dence in ACI following 
its acquisition by Amlin that Räets Marine, 
a signifi cant Dutch marine agency, renewed 
its association with ACI at the end of 2009 
having moved its business to a competitor 
following nationalisation in October 2008. 
Räets sources approximately €60 million 
of good and profi table marine hull and 
liability business.
ACI contributed £53.7 million to the 
Group’s profi t before tax and a return on 
the investment, since the acquisition on 
22 July 2009, of 12.8%. Having fi nanced 
the acquisition mostly with cash, it has 
enhanced earnings per share and return 
on equity in 2009.
I have been pleased with the hard work 
and enthusiasm demonstrated by the ACI 
management and employees to deliver 
change where it is required and to adopt 
Amlin’s practices. While much remains to 
be done in optimising its potential, I am 
confi dent that good progress will continue 
to be achieved in 2010 and that it will prove 
to be a value adding acquisition.
Generating returns 
from acquisitions
In addition to ACI, we have invested 
some £59 million in acquisitions since the 
beginning of 2008. In 2008 we acquired 
the renewal rights to HCC’s fl eet motor 
account, acquired minority investments in 
two UK brokers, and bought Anglo French 
Underwriters. We also set up Leadenhall 
Capital Partners in partnership with its 
management. In November 2009, we 
purchased Crowe Livestock Underwriting 
Ltd and in January 2010, we completed 
the transfer of Lockton’s UK insolvency 
practitioners’ insurance business.
These investments have enhanced the 
balance of the Group’s overall underwriting 
portfolio, have added experienced 
professionals to the Group who we believe 
fi t well with Amlin’s culture, and importantly 
are already delivering incremental return to 
shareholders.
2009 return on investment from recent 
acquisitions and investments
Acquisition of HCC fl eet 
motor account 
61%
Investments in Miles Smith 
and TL Dallas
14%
Acquisition of Anglo French 
Underwriters 
9%
Investment in Leadenhall Capital 
Partners and funds
9%
Acquisition of Amlin Corporate 
Insurance
13%
Where relevant, the above returns include the proﬁ t 
generated from additional premiums sourced as a result 
of the acquisitions and investments. The return shown for 
ACI is the ﬁ ve month proﬁ t after tax over acquisition cost.
Business improvement
The changes made to our organisational 
structure in 2008, involving the creation of 
Amlin London and Amlin UK, allowing Group 
management to focus more on strategy, 
have bedded down well. We have also 
increased resources capable of managing 
change across the Group with the aim of 
achieving consistently high standards of 
process and risk management, and in 
particular integrating ACI and ensuring 
that we are ready for Solvency II, the EU 
legislation which takes effect from 2012. 
Proper preparation for Solvency II is critical 
to maintaining the Group’s ability to deliver 
superior levels of return on equity, as a failure 
to meet the standards expected by regulators 
could result in the need to carry signifi cantly 
more regulatory capital. We consider it an 
excellent opportunity to take our risk 
management practices up a level and believe 
that this could create further competitive 
advantage, for example through the prospect 
of improving our fi nancial security ratings. 
Moreover, we believe that there are likely 
to be good opportunities to take advantage 
of situations where weaker companies fail 
to meet the required standards or need 
substantial additional capital and, for 
example, are forced to shed business.
Chief Executive’s review continued 19
www.amlin.com
1. Overview 03
2. Strategy 15
3. Performance 25
4. Governance 73
5. Financial statements 113
6. Shareholder information 201
Crowe Livestock Underwriting Ltd
Leading expertise in a new class for Amlin
Established in 1996, Crowe is a leading and internationally recognised coverholder 
which provides specialist insurance to the livestock industry. 
Based in Norfolk with 16 employees, Crowe operates through a network of brokers and 
managing general agents across 45 countries and underwrites a diverse book of livestock 
business including poultry, cattle and aquatics. For the 2010 fi nancial year Crowe expects 
to handle approximately £11 million of gross written premium.
The acquisition adds further diversifi cation to Amlin’s underwriting portfolio, providing 
the opportunity for Amlin to build on its well regarded bloodstock book by entering the 
livestock class. 
People
Y et again, our employee turnover has 
been low, with total and senior underwriter 
turnover during 2009 of only 4.9% and 
1.9% respectively. 
We conducted our third Ipsos MORI survey 
of employees, which again showed very 
positive results with a high alignment 
between Amlin and our employees on 
our strategic direction and goals. We also 
compared very favourably against Ipsos 
MORI’s norms for the fi nancial services 
sector and overall.
The considerable talents and experience 
of our people is a core strength of Amlin. 
In 2009, in addition to those who joined 
the Group through acquisitions, we have 
hired experienced professionals to increase 
our expertise and penetration in a number 
of business classes, such as marine hull, 
property and US casualty, and have 
reinforced our capabilities in risk and 
change management.
The consistent delivery of superior 
performance, ensuring that acquisitions 
deliver value to shareholders and the 
attainment of our Vision of becoming ‘the 
global reference point for quality in our 
markets’ require dedication and hard work. 
I am both proud of, and thankful for, the 
efforts and achievements of our employees 
during 2009.
Summary
2009 was clearly an exceptional year, 
both in terms of fi nancial performance 
and strategic development. It would be 
foolhardy to assume that such a benign 
claims environment is the norm. However, 
underwriting markets in most classes 
remain suffi ciently strong to offer good 
margin potential and we remain focused 
on continuing to deliver superior returns 
on equity. The capability and potential of 
the Group continues to go from strength 
to strength.
Charles Philipps
Chief Executive
