 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 16
Chairman’s statement
Positive performance
“ During 2010 we continued to expand the 
scope of our business, both organically 
and through acquisition. We also further 
strengthened our operational capability  
in order to position the Group for future 
growth when market conditions allow.”
Results and dividend
2010 was a year with both substantial catastrophe 
claims and a high incidence of large risk losses. 
Pre-tax	profits	of	£259.2	million,	with	a	return	 
on equity of 13.9%, were as a consequence  
lower than in 2009. Earthquakes in Chile and 
New	Zealand	accounted	for	just	over	£200	million	
of catastrophe claims, while storms in Europe and 
floods	in	Australia,	together	with	the	Deepwater	
Horizon oil spill added to the incremental level  
of claims. 
Protecting and serving our policyholders is our 
business. We also strive to manage the business 
in a manner that produces excellent cross cycle 
returns for shareholders. Two features stand 
out in the 2010 result. Firstly, the underlying 
performance of most of Amlin’s portfolios 
was satisfactory. Secondly, the diversity of our 
reinsurance portfolio meant that the reinsurance 
account	as	a	whole	was	profitable	in	2010,	
despite	the	international	earthquake claims.	
The	Board	is	proposing	a	final	dividend	of	15.8	
pence per share (2009 second interim dividend 
13.5p), making total dividends declared for the 
year of 23.0 pence per share, a 15.0% increase 
over	2009.	The	final	dividend	will	be	paid	on	 
19	May	2011,	subject	to	shareholder	approval,	to	
shareholders on the register on 25 March 2011.
Steadily growing the dividend, as illustrated again 
this year, remains our goal. However, we also 
remain committed to the active management  
of capital and the Board has authorised up to  
£75 million of share buy backs.
Strategic progress
During	2010	we	continued	to	focus	on	the	
delivery of our strategic vision through the 
expansion of the platforms from which Amlin 
operates,	which	we	believe	will	support	significant	
growth once trading conditions are favourable. 
Amlin	Corporate	Insurance	(ACI),	was	the	subject	
of concentrated attention in every aspect of its 
activities and, while the 2010 performance was 
disappointing,	we	remain	confident	that	it	is	on	
course to meet our performance targets. 
During	2010	we	established	a	reinsurance	
business in Switzerland by re-domiciling Amlin 
Bermuda to Zurich and recruiting a team of 
reinsurance specialists to create a new business 
division which trades as Amlin Re Europe. We 
were pleased to welcome our new colleagues 
in Amlin Re Europe and delighted that they 
exceeded their challenging budget for business 
attaching on 1 January 2011. Our team in 
Bermuda collaborated in this restructuring but 
remain based in Hamilton where they continue  
to run a very successful division for Amlin. 
In addition to these developments, our two  
UK-based operations, Amlin London and 
Amlin UK, maintained their focus on business 
development with real success, strengthening 
links with brokers, bringing in new teams and 
acquiring additional portfolios. Enhancing the 
performance of our established platforms is  
as important as developing new opportunities. 
In terms of supporting our strategy, we have 
remained focused on enhanced reporting of 
risk across the organisation, to enable us to 
make progress towards meeting Solvency II 
requirements.	This	is	a	major	project	for	the	
Group which continues to have the full  
support and engagement of the Board.
As we prepare for future growth, the value of  
the Amlin brand is becoming more apparent.  
It is a key asset to the business, founded on our 
core values, the quality of our people and our 
consistent performance. The strength of our 
brand	is	reflected	in	the	competitive	advantage	
Anglo French Underwriters (now Amlin France), 
ACI and other recent smaller acquisitions have 
derived from becoming part of the Amlin Group. 
Similarly, our brand was an important factor for 
the management team of Amlin Re Europe in  
the positive response received from brokers  
and prospective clients. 
Outlook
As anticipated, we experienced increased 
competition across most markets which were 
unaffected	by	major	losses	in	2010.	Amlin’s	
selective approach to underwriting enabled us to 
maintain satisfactory margins across much of the 
portfolio. In some market sectors, most notably 
the	UK	fleet	motor	market,	we	saw	an	improving	
trend. Following the severe winter weather and 
consequent	claims	impact	on	major	UK	insurers,	
a more widespread upturn in the UK commercial 
market may be drawing closer. Amlin UK is 
extremely well positioned to take advantage  
of this upturn when it arises. 
Amlin’s long term performance has been built on 
underwriting discipline when trading conditions 
offer limited returns, combined with opportunism 
when	there	is	scope	for	profitable	growth.	With	
established operations in the UK, Bermuda and 
Continental Europe, together with the newly 
created Swiss business, Amlin now has more 
platforms from which to grow than ever before. 
There is a real momentum throughout Amlin to 
develop and enhance our business and a strong 
capital base to support rapid expansion when 
market conditions are favourable. 
As always the level of catastrophe claims activity 
will	influence	financial	performance.	Tragically,	2011	 
has	started	with	another	major	New	Zealand	
earthquake,	which	this	time	has	led	to	significant	
loss of life. Following so quickly after the 
September 2010 event, it will take a period 
of	time	before	the	full	financial	effect	of	the	
Christchurch damage can be assessed.
Roger Taylor 
Chairman 17
Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements
Overview Chairman’s statement
Governance and the Board
Amlin continues to strive for excellence in 
corporate governance. We have a strong 
culture	of	accountability,	which	is	reflected	
throughout the organisation in the serious 
way that we operate executive processes and 
subsidiary boards. The Board has focused, not 
only on the increasingly complex regulatory 
environment and on challenging and encouraging 
executive management, but also on strategy 
development and the integration of recent 
acquisitions. Alongside the work on Solvency II, 
the Board’s consideration of risk and solvency 
has progressively deepened over the last 
couple of years, with a Board-level Risk and 
Solvency Committee, separating out some of 
the Audit Committee’s responsibilities, having 
been established with effect from 1 January of 
this	year.	I	am	pleased	that	Richard	Davey,	an	
independent non-executive, has agreed to chair 
the new committee. 
The Board was active in the debate leading 
up to the adoption of the new UK Corporate 
Governance Code, with which we intend fully to 
comply in 2011, including the annual re-election of 
Directors	from	the	AGM	this	May.	I	am	confident	
in recommending to shareholders, following 
individual as well as collective evaluation, that the 
Board possesses the necessary skills and diversity 
of experience that a complex insurer such as 
Amlin requires. Further governance details are set 
out in this Annual Report, particularly in the 
Board Corporate Governance Statement  
( pp.60), which I commend to you. 
All	of	the	Directors	are	standing	for	re-election	at	
the AGM other than Tony Holt, a non-executive 
since	his	retirement	as	Underwriting	Director	in	
2008.	I	pay	tribute	to	Tony’s	major	contribution	
to Amlin’s success since its formation in 1998. 
His continued Board involvement over the last 
two years, including at two key subsidiaries, has 
helped complete the transition of underwriting 
leadership to the next generation. For that 
reason	it	is	particularly	fitting	that	Simon	Beale,	
the	Underwriting	Director	of	Amlin	London,	is	
being	proposed	to	be	elected	as	a	Director	at	the	
forthcoming AGM in May. 
The Amlin team 
Amlin’s Vision is to be the global reference point for 
quality in each of our markets, and our people are 
crucial to attaining this goal. A pleasing recognition 
of Amlin’s long term investment in training and 
development and of the professionalism of our 
people was the granting to Amlin of Chartered 
Insurer status during	2010,	the	first	time	this	
recognition has been awarded to a London Market 
insurer . The range of skills and expertise required 
to	deliver	a	first	class	service	to	clients	is	wider	than	
ever before and we remain committed to ensuring 
that our people are well equipped to meet client 
needs wherever we operate. 
Rod	Dampier,	Head	of	Aviation	for	Amlin	London	
and a director of Amlin Underwriting Limited, 
who has been with Amlin since 1997, will be 
retiring in 2011 after more than 42 years in the 
London market. I would like to thank him for his 
contribution to establishing Amlin as one of the 
most respected aviation markets in the sector. 
Rod has been supported by a high quality and 
experienced	team	and	I	am	confident	that	his	
successor, Miles Taffs, and the team will maintain 
Amlin’s excellent underwriting record and 
considerable reputation in this class.
It has been a demanding year for Amlin, with 
challenging trading conditions, heightened 
claims activity and a rigorous focus on regulatory 
matters. We have continued to make real 
progress due to the positive leadership of Charles 
Philipps and his management colleagues, and the 
ready response of our employees. I would like to 
thank them all for their energy and commitment.
Committed to governance
The Board believes that high standards 
of corporate governance are intrinsic 
to Amlin’s culture and values. Our 
commitment to high standards 
of conduct is highlighted in the 
Corporate Governance section.
 More information: page 60
Return on equity
13.9%
2009: 37.0%
Dividend
23.0p
2009: 20.0 pence
Total shareholder return
205%
2009: 337%
Roger Taylor
Chairman
