 BIDCORP PLC
6
INTRODUCTION
Bidcorp plc has over the past eighteen months been recapitalised and
begun a process of stabilising the businesses. A strategic assessment of
all the areas of the business activities was conducted. Management was
tasked with reducing costs and addressing returns on the assets
employed. This task continues with some initial benefits being realised. 
We experienced a slow down in market activity, particularly in the
automotive services sector, as well as other setbacks. Whilst it is
disappointing not to be able to show markedly improved financial 
results, I remain optimistic about Bidcorp’s future. We have avoided
pursuing expansion opportunities until a stable foundation has been
achieved. 
STRATEGY
The strategic assessment resulted in the closure of a number of
businesses at significant cost. Our focus has been on restructuring the
continuing businesses and establishing the appropriate processes,
structures and philosophies to generate sustainable growth. Once
achieved we will turn our attention to exploring growth opportunities 
and new strategic initiatives, one of which is to ensure Bidcorp’s
participation in the trade between the United Kingdom, continental
Europe and southern Africa.
The reorganisation of the Group is progressing satisfactorily. Sustainable
business transformations require persistence and perseverance. Bidcorp’s
turnaround has taken place in incremental stages while carefully building
the critical mass required to create ‘breakthrough’ opportunities.
Unlocking value is a difficult and demanding task, but the implementation
of a decentralised and entrepreneurial culture has brought new energy to
the Group.
Management’s focus on cost savings and operational efficiencies is
ongoing and we believe the businesses are now appropriately structured
to benefit from opportunities, especially once the markets improve.
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
Whilst tough
economic conditions
have slowed the
turnaround,
Bidcorp is well
positioned to
benefit from
market
improvements
Brian Joffe
Chairman ECONOMIC CONDITIONS
First world countries recorded slower real growth rates in the reporting
period. Uncertainty in the world economy was exacerbated by the war in
Iraq and the disruption occurring during an economic slowdown. Leading
indicator industries, such as the automotive industry, were particularly 
hard hit. 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
Group turnover from continuing operations amounted to £189.8 million.
Operating profit, excluding exceptional items and discontinued
operations, amounted to £0.8 million. Finance costs were £1.6 million,
reflecting the reduction in the Group’s gearing to 28% (2001: 209%).
Turnover and operating losses, including closure costs in respect of
discontinued operations, amounted to £14.7 million and £2.9 million,
respectively.
PROSPECTS
Significant progress has been made in establishing a solid foundation to
support long term sustainable growth and profitability for Bidcorp.
Change is always difficult and it has been a demanding time for the
Group. My thanks go to the management and staff for their efforts in
trying circumstances.
Whilst tough economic conditions have slowed the turnaround, Bidcorp is
well positioned to benefit from market improvements. 
BRIAN JOFFE
August 14  2003
ANNUAL REPORT 2003
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
7
