 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
DECISIVE ACTIONS  
STRENGTHENED FOUNDATIONS
Mark Cutifani
OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE
I regularly state that creating a platform of operational 
excellence is fundamental to delivering the full potential 
from our asset base, independent of the market’s external 
influences. In fact, weaker or more volatile markets 
emphasise a greater need for operating discipline, to  
ensure that we are operating to deliver optimal cash  
flows while preserving the assets’ longer term integrity.
The actions we have taken to improve the quality of our 
asset portfolio as a whole, and to lift operating performance 
at the asset level through the implementation of our 
Operating Model, is driving materially stronger results.
Compared with 2012, we produced in aggregate in 2016, 
8% more physical product from one-third fewer assets  
and at a 31% lower unit cost, on a copper equivalent basis, 
together representing a 41% increase in productivity
  
over that four year period. This performance is the clearest 
illustration of the fundamental changes we have made to  
the way we run the business and the progress we have  
made to increase the quality of the portfolio. In dollar  
terms, we delivered $1.5 billion of cost and volume 
improvements, net of such headwinds as the snowfall  
and strikes at Los Bronces and the smelter run-out in our 
Platinum business.
In 2017, we are aiming to deliver an incremental $1 billion  
of net cost and volume improvements, 75% of which has 
already been identified.
REFINING THE PORTFOLIO
The transformation of our portfolio is well advanced,  
moving from 68 assets in 2013 to 42 at the end of 2016.
In 2016, we received $1.8 billion
(1)
 from disposal 
transactions, largely from the $1.5 billion sale of our niobium 
and phosphates business in Brazil to China Molybdenum  
Co. Ltd., which completed in September 2016.
During the year, we also completed the divestments of  
the Callide and Foxleigh coal mines in Australia, and our 
9.7% interest in Exxaro in South Africa; and in November, 
following the receipt of all regulatory approvals, we 
completed the sale of our Rustenburg platinum operations 
in South Africa to Sibanye.
We will continue to refine our asset portfolio on an  
ongoing basis in order to ensure that our capital is  
deployed effectively to generate enhanced returns  
for our shareholders.
THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN
Our business strategy is based on the quality of the assets in 
our portfolio and, in certain product areas, the aggregation 
of those assets to create leading market positions. The 
assets are further enhanced by the marketing, technical  
and other critical, value-adding core processes that are 
delivered by the Group.
The high quality assets across our De Beers, PGMs  
and Copper businesses underpin our positions in those 
respective markets and are the cornerstone of a  
The decisive and wide-ranging operational, cost, capital  
and portfolio actions we set out in 2016 – to sustainably 
improve cash flows and strengthen the balance sheet –  
have enabled us to reduce net debt by 34% to $8.5 billion, 
significantly below our $10 billion target. 
While the prices for many of our products recovered during 
the second half of 2016 – including a particularly sharp 
increase for metallurgical coal in the fourth quarter – the 
average price for our basket of products for the year as a 
whole remained marginally below that for the prior year, 
reminding us of the scale of the price decreases that the 
industry incurred during late 2015. 
Against that backdrop, and with our continued sharp  
focus on operational costs and productivity, we delivered  
a $3.5 billion increase in attributable free cash flow, a  
25% increase in underlying EBITDA to $6.1 billion and  
grew our underlying EBITDA margin by five percentage 
points to 26%. Profit for the financial year attributable to 
equity shareholders increased to $1.6 billion, compared 
with a $5.6 billion loss in 2015. Following a 20% increase 
in copper equivalent productivity between 2012 and 2015, 
we delivered an additional 18% productivity increase 
during 2016. 
The $1.5 billion sale of the niobium and phosphates 
business further supported our balance sheet recovery  
goal and, combined with the sale of a number of coal and 
platinum assets during the year, we received $1.8 billion
(1)
  
of disposal proceeds in 2016.
Keeping our people safe at work has always been an 
absolute priority. In 2016, we reported a 24% reduction  
in recordable case frequency rates, but an increase in fatal 
incidents. Tragically, we lost 1 1 colleagues during the year, 
largely due to failures around our critical safety risk areas. 
We can never accept even one serious injury and our efforts 
are concentrated around those major risk areas. We are 
determined that our goal of zero harm is achievable and  
we are working with every employee to get there.
In terms of environmental performance, there is no  
doubt that improved work planning and a greater focus  
on risk assessment has delivered a further reduction in  
the number of incidents, now 85% fewer than in 2013.
The actions we took across the business to  
drive free cash flow and further refine our 
portfolio, despite still weaker prices, delivered  
the significantly strengthened financial position 
required to create the foundations for the future.
(1) 
Proceeds from 
disposals of  
$1.8 billion were 
received in 2016.  
Total nominal cash 
inflows are expected 
to reach $2.0 billion 
over time, subject  
to prices.
12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 more resilient and competitive Anglo American, through  
the economic and commodity price cycle. In addition, we 
continue to benefit from the performance of a number of 
other world class assets across the bulk commodities of  
iron ore and coal, as well as nickel. We will continue to 
pursue opportunities to improve returns across each of  
our assets and product suites.
During 2016 and into 201 7 , we have continued to increase  
the overall quality of the portfolio through the completed or 
announced divestments of a number of assets, including the 
Rustenburg and Union platinum operations in South Africa and 
several of our smaller coal assets in Australia, amongst others.
In addition, and in response to the need to strengthen our 
financial position in light of the sharp falls in commodity 
prices in late 2015, we also decided to sell our niobium  
and phosphates business in Brazil. Through an extensive 
and competitive sale process, we agreed to sell those 
businesses to China Molybdenum, generating cash 
proceeds considerably higher than market expectations.
While we saw strong interest in a number of the major  
assets for which we also held sale processes during 2016  
to further strengthen our financial position, we adhered to 
our strict value thresholds and chose not to transact. We  
will continue to upgrade our portfolio as a matter of course, 
although asset disposals for the purposes of deleveraging  
are no longer required. We therefore retain the world class 
Moranbah and Grosvenor metallurgical coal assets in 
Australia and our much upgraded nickel assets in Brazil, 
ensuring that they continue to be optimised operationally  
to contribute cash and returns, while being allocated capital 
to both protect and enhance value.
In South Africa, we continue to work through all the potential 
options for our export thermal coal and iron ore interests, 
recognising the high quality and performance of these 
businesses and ensuring that value is optimised for all our 
shareholders. The retention of these assets remains a viable 
position given our recent improvements and our focus on 
continuing improvements as we go forward.
Despite our significant progress, it is critical that the lessons 
of recent years are applied and, although there is confidence 
in the long term outlook for our products, the balance sheet 
must be able to withstand expected price volatility in the 
short to medium term. Our priority in 2017 is to deliver 
further productivity improvements while maintaining capital 
and cost discipline in order to be in a position to resume 
dividend payments for the end of 2017, and to restore an 
investment grade credit rating. 
In 2017, capital expenditure
(2)
 will be maintained at 
$2.5 billion, with stay-in-business capital increased to 
$1.2 billion. Capital will be appropriately prioritised, with  
care taken to ensure that we protect the long term value  
of our assets. We retain a number of attractive organic 
options, particularly in our Copper business, which we  
will continue to progress appropriately and assess in  
light of our overall capital structure and the prevailing  
macro environment.
Our portfolio constitutes a highly attractive, competitive  
and well balanced business, with the leverage of scale, 
technical and marketing expertise and mineral  
endowment options, which offer considerable upside 
potential over the long term. 
PARTNERS IN THE FUTURE
Developing and maintaining positive relationships with  
host communities continues to be a priority. We made good 
progress in rolling out the updated Social Way, our rigorous 
management standard for community issues. During 2016, 
we eliminated serious non-compliances for the first time  
and almost halved moderate non-compliances. Overall 
compliance reached 84% (2015: 66%). 
An innovative and low cost SMS-based community survey 
mechanism was piloted in 2016 with positive results. The 
surveys highlighted the importance to host communities  
of high quality stakeholder engagement and a sense of 
fairness in our dealings with communities, in particular for 
the handling of complaints, managing negative impacts and 
generating widespread benefits from our operations. The 
surveys were also able to provide near real-time feedback 
on community sentiment and concerns, greatly aiding the 
ability of sites to respond to local priorities. Survey findings 
were also successfully combined with local social media 
activity to create new channels for stakeholder engagement. 
We will be rolling out the SMS surveys at priority sites as an 
ongoing programme through 2017. 
We continued to drive the implementation of our innovative 
economic development model at a number of our 
operations. The model focuses on leveraging the value 
chains and skills within the business, and prioritises actions 
such as local procurement, enterprise development and 
skills-based employee volunteering. It was particularly 
gratifying to see our approach supported by the Inter-
American Development Bank, which has contributed  
$2 million of co-funding to enhance our supplier and 
enterprise development programmes across Latin America. 
We have also piloted an innovative spatial development 
planning approach in Limpopo, South Africa. This has 
identified a wide range of near term economic development 
opportunities that we are now discussing with government 
and other stakeholders. 
Our approach at community level continues to be informed 
by broader stakeholder engagement at national and 
international level. We have continued to be a progressive 
voice in dialogues with governments, faith groups and  
NGOs on topics such as the Sustainable Development 
Goals, revenue transparency and ethical value chains in  
the mining sector.
In 2016, the engagement between leaders in the mining 
sector and faith groups grew and was formalised as the 
Mining and Faith Reflections Initiative. An independent 
secretariat was established to support the initiative and 
there were new dialogues established in Zambia and Peru. 
In South Africa, where discussions are most advanced,  
the focus for 2016 was on exploring how the faith group-
industry collaboration can bring meaningful benefits to 
communities in mining areas, with a particular emphasis on 
health and economic development. We are very hopeful of 
seeing the first results from these efforts in 2017. 
(2) 
Excludes capitalised 
operating cash flows.
 13
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
THANK YOU
In this, Anglo American’s centenary year, and on behalf  
of my colleagues on the Group Management Committee,  
I would like to thank all our people across the business for 
their hard work and commitment in what was a year of 
significant change and market volatility, and also thank  
our widespread and diverse stakeholders for their 
understanding and support.
As a result of our decisive actions in 2016, and the  
results delivered by our people across the company,  
Anglo American is now more robust, with a stronger  
balance sheet and more competitive cost structure  
around a world class and uniquely diversified asset base. 
Anglo American’s strategic direction is clear and we have  
a highly motivated team that understands how we create 
sustainable value through the way we run the business.
OUTLOOK
In 2016, we have seen how unpredictable the economic  
and political environment is, emphasising the importance  
of asset quality, balance sheet strength, operational 
excellence and overall resilience. And, as we look ahead,  
we do expect ongoing price volatility for many of our 
products. However, with supply generally more constrained 
following a number of years of low capital investment and  
a generally more cautious approach across the industry, 
coupled with still growing demand as China seeks to balance 
its economy via both stimulus and a managed slowdown,  
the fundamental picture is sound. The world’s consuming 
and aspirational middle class continues to grow in size at  
a considerable rate, further supporting demand for our 
products that are more skewed to the later stages of the 
development cycle.
OUR MISSION: 
Together, we create 
sustainable value 
that makes a real 
difference
OUR VISION:
To be partners  
in the future
DELIVERING CHANGE
FOCUS THE PORTFOLIO
Prioritising time and capital on the 
assets that offer the most attractive 
long term value creation potential. 
 • Transforming portfolio: 68 assets in 2013 to  
42 at end 2016.
 • $1 .8 billion
(1)
 of disposal proceeds received in the  
year; including: niobium and phosphates business 
($1.5 billion); Rustenburg platinum mines; and 9.7%  
interest in Exxaro.
 • A number of other disposal transactions  
completed including the Foxleigh and Callide  
coal mines in Australia.
 • Continue to refine and upgrade asset portfolio.
DRIVE CONSISTENT DELIVERY
Maintaining a highly competitive 
mindset with innovation and 
outstanding delivery at the forefront  
of how we drive change.
 • Volume and cost improvement delivered: $1.5 billion  
in year.
 • Net debt reduced below $10 billion target: $8.5 billion.
 • Two major projects completed ahead of schedule and 
within budget; Gahcho Kué (De Beers) and Grosvenor  
(Coal Australia).
DEVELOP CORE BUSINESS 
PROCESSES
Becoming industry leaders in critical 
areas, extracting maximum value 
from our assets and products.
 • Operating Model rolled out at nine operations.
 • Marketing business ensuring value optimisation  
across the value chain.
 • Avoided energy costs in 2016 estimated at $90 million, 
driven by business improvement projects.
DELIVER A HIGH PERFORMANCE 
CULTURE
Ensuring our organisation and  
people have the critical core skills  
to improve returns.
 • Productivity improved by 41% since 2012.
 • Headcount reduced by 40% since 2013.
 • 32% reduction in occupational diseases reported  
since 2015.
(1) 
Proceeds from disposals of $1.8 billion were received in 2016. Total nominal cash inflows are expected to reach $2.0 billion over time, subject to prices.
14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 As he prepares for his much deserved retirement after  
12 years of service, I am also grateful to our finance  
director, René Médori, for his steady hand and wise counsel. 
Stephen Pearce will be joining the Board as René’s 
successor after the AGM in April and we look forward to 
drawing on his broad-based financial and commercial 
leadership experience. 
I would also like to recognise our chairman, Sir John Parker, 
for his guidance and leadership across many fronts. On 
behalf of the entire management team, we thank him and 
wish him well as he steps down as chairman during 2017. 
Lastly, I thank all the members of the Board for their 
unwavering support for the changes we have made to 
deliver our much strengthened position as we continue  
to build the foundations for Anglo American’s future.
Mark Cutifani 
Chief Executive
BUILDING RESILIENCE
REMUNERATION
Anglo American’s directors’ remuneration policy, which will be 
put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM, is designed  
to encourage delivery of the Group’s strategy and creation of 
stakeholder value in a responsible and sustainable manner.  
The main elements of the remuneration package are basic 
salary, annual bonus and long term incentive plan (LTIP).
ANNUAL BONUS 
     
Annual bonus performance measures include:
 • 50% on underlying earnings per share (EPS). EPS is one of the 
Group’s key financial measures of performance and is set on 
an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding yet realistic
 • The remaining measures are non-financial and include project 
delivery, business improvement, stakeholder engagement and 
talent management
 • A modifier is applied depending on the extent to which  
safety targets are met. 
 • To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% of 
any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a minimum of 
three years and is subject to clawback.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 
   
The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic 
objectives over a three-year performance period. Vested  
LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held for  
an additional two years to encourage alignment of executive  
and shareholder interests.
The proposed LTIP performance measures and weightings are:
 • 70% subject to Group Total Shareholder Return (TSR), with 
two-thirds relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index  
and one-third relative to the constituent of the FTSE 100 index
 • 30% subject to a balanced scorecard of financial and  
strategic objectives
Full details are set out in the directors’  
remuneration report on pages 84-109.
For more information on how we measure our performance 
through our pillars of value see page 34.
THE NEW ANGLO AMERICAN
 • High quality assets across our De Beers,  
PGMs and Copper businesses underpin  
our competitive positions in those  
respective markets.
 • We also benefit from a number of other high 
quality, individual assets across iron ore, coal 
and nickel, which are optimised to continue to 
contribute cash and returns.
 • Capital is appropriately prioritised, with care 
taken to ensure that we protect the long term 
value of all our assets.
 • 201 7 priorities to restore an investment grade  
credit rating and resume dividend payments.
A highly attractive, competitive  
and well balanced business, with the  
leverage of scale, technical and marketing 
expertise and mineral endowment options  
to offer considerable upside potential  
over the long term.
Creating a resilient business that  
delivers robust profitability and  
sustainable, positive cash flows  
through the cycle.
 15
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
