 STRATEGIC REPORT CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
RESPONSIVE THROUGH THE DOWNTURN, 
AND IN SHAPE FOR THE FUTURE
Although we maintained a high level of liquidity, with cash 
and undrawn facilities of around $16 billion, the imperative  
to restore the balance sheet meant, regrettably, that 
dividends remained suspended. With the company now  
in a much healthier state than a year ago, however, and 
prospects for prices a little more positive, the Board is 
targeting reinstatement of the dividend for the end of 2017 
(payable in 2018). When the dividend resumes, we will move 
to a payout ratio-based policy, the details of which we will 
define at that time.
ASSET FOCUS AND OPTIONALITY
In February 2016, when, as it turned out, prices for mining 
products were around their lowest point in the current 
commodities downturn, we announced that we would be 
concentrating our capital on our portfolio of diamond, 
platinum group metals (PGMs) and copper interests, and 
that we intended to explore the sale of many of our coal  
and iron ore assets. 
As the benefits of our own cost and productivity improvements 
started to come through, and as we successfully divested a 
number of coal and platinum assets, in addition to the niobium 
and phosphates business, with prices also firming for a 
majority of our products during the second half – all of those 
factors served to accelerate the repair of our financial position. 
The pressures on us to divest further major assets have 
therefore diminished considerably. 
Although we still believe that the top-tier asset positions we 
hold in De Beers, PGMs and Copper form the bedrock of a 
financially stronger and more competitive Anglo American, 
we continue to benefit from the much improved operational 
performance of a number of other high quality iron ore, coal 
and nickel assets. As a result, we now have a much greater 
degree of optionality with regard to asset retentions, and to 
our geographic balance.
SAFETY AND HEALTH
Throughout Anglo American, safety is our paramount 
consideration. In 2016, we experienced a better total 
recordable injuries performance, with a 24% reduction 
in recordable injury rates compared with 2015. It is 
distressing, however, to record a steep rise in fatal injuries, 
with 1 1 lives lost at the Group’s operations, including  
seven in deep mines, of which four were in mines we have 
subsequently sold. This was clearly against the trend  
of recent years, and all the more surprising given the 
heightened focus on safety throughout the Group, including 
an increasing emphasis on critical controls and more 
thoroughgoing safety initiatives such as our Global Safety 
Day campaign. Any loss of life in the workplace is a tragic 
event – and is quite unacceptable – and a deeply  
saddening aspect is that several of the fatal incidents  
were eminently preventable, arising, as they did, from 
front-line operational practice not being aligned with  
our stringent safety policies. We must reverse this 
performance, and the Board, and particularly its 
Sustainability Committee under the chairmanship  
of Jack Thompson, an experienced miner, has been  
engaging closely with chief executive Mark Cutifani  
and his management team to address this challenge.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATING PERFORMANCE
Since the start of the mining commodities crisis some  
three years ago, Anglo American has reduced its number  
of operating assets by 26. Crucially though, we were 
determined not to sell assets below their inherent value –  
not even during the dark days of late 2015 and early 2016, 
after the slump in mining stocks had accelerated, abetted  
by the aggressive ‘shorting’ actions of certain hedge  
funds, which at one stage accounted for about 20%  
of our share register. 
Accordingly, in the first six months of the year, the only major 
asset we agreed to sell was our niobium and phosphates 
business in Brazil, for which we received $1.5 billion – well 
above market expectations. 
Later in the second half, however, market sentiment 
improved on the back of substantially strengthening prices 
for iron ore and both metallurgical and thermal coal. We also 
disposed of a number of minor assets as we continued to 
tidy up our portfolio so that total proceeds for disposals 
amounted to $1.8 billion
(1)
 for the year. 
We delivered a profit for the financial year attributable to 
equity shareholders of $1.6 billion and underlying EBITDA  
of $6.1 billion. At the same time, continued capital discipline 
resulted in capital expenditure
(2)
 declining from $4.0 billion 
to $2.5 billion, while no new major projects were approved. 
The performance was bolstered by an across-the-business 
improvement in productivity of 18% as we progressively 
rolled out our Operating Model and sold a number of less 
productive assets, with copper equivalent unit costs 
declining by 9% in dollar terms.
Net debt was reduced by $4.4 billion, from $12.9 billion  
to $8.5 billion, considerably below our year-end target  
of $10 billion, with net debt to EBITDA of 1.4 times. We 
continue to plan for somewhat lower debt levels, given  
the continued volatility in the mining industry.
Sir John Parker
During a year of continued slow global economic 
recovery and low commodity prices on average, 
Anglo American executed significant cost and 
productivity improvements, and in the second 
half benefited from sharply increasing prices  
for several of its products. This combination 
enabled a remarkable sector-leading recovery 
for Anglo American.
(1) 
Proceeds from 
disposals of  
$1.8 billion were 
received in 2016.  
Total nominal cash 
inflows are expected 
to reach $2.0 billion 
over time, subject  
to prices.
(2) 
Excluding capitalised 
operating cash flows.
04 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016 Our Sustainability Committee is heavily involved in 
searching inquiry into all major accidents and fatal incidents, 
and in assessing operational risks across the business. This 
includes significant attention to all our 90 tailings storage 
facilities. Although we have confidence in the integrity  
of the dams, and our tailings dam monitoring exceeds 
legal-compliance requirements, we have nonetheless 
increased our degree of surveillance, inspection monitoring 
and risk assurance.
I am pleased that a landmark step has been taken on 
resolving the silicosis issue in South Africa. In March 2016, 
Anglo American South Africa and AngloGold Ashanti 
concluded an agreement which resolves fully and finally 
4,400 stand-alone silicosis claims. We believe that the 
agreement to settle this litigation is in the best interests  
of the plaintiffs, their families, our company and its  
wider stakeholders. 
CLIMATE CHANGE
We continue to work in partnership and consultation with  
all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders, to help 
address the causes and impacts of climate change. As part 
of this outreach, we have been consulting with the ‘Aiming 
for A’ coalition, which was established in 2012 by a group  
of investors, including some of our largest shareholders, to 
enhance extractive companies’ reporting commitment to 
address climate change, including how they manage its 
impacts on their business. 
OUR CULTURE AND VALUES
At Anglo American, each one of us, in our daily lives, makes  
a contribution as we seek to earn the trust that gives us our 
licence to operate. 
Trust is integral to our deep-seated reputation for doing the 
right thing, including acting with integrity and displaying care 
and respect for the rights and livelihoods of our colleagues, 
communities and the natural environments in which we  
work. To assist us in this, we have recently revised, and are 
continuing to roll out to all employees in the Group, our Code 
of Conduct – an initiative in which the Board was directly 
involved. Intended to be a single point of reference, the Code 
makes very clear what standards of behaviour the company 
expects. It has at its core our shared values which describe 
what we should be doing to protect Anglo American’s good 
name, and to make a positive difference. 
GOVERNANCE 
The role of the board in leading an organisation, and in 
leading by example, is especially important in times of 
corporate stress and difficulty. As I mention in my Statement 
on page 65 of this Report, the non-executive directors 
worked closely with management through the deepening 
commodity crisis in the latter months of 2015 and early 2016 
to help steer the company through this period. 
Executive remuneration
As you know, at the AGM held in April 2016, we received a 
substantially lower percentage of support from shareholders 
than that achieved in previous years. Although there is no 
perfect remuneration system, the Board believes that at 
Anglo American there is a relatively good correlation 
between profitability and levels of variable remuneration,  
and that our remuneration system is fair, performance-based 
and peer-comparable. Following further consultation with 
shareholders, we will be presenting a revised remuneration 
policy at the forthcoming AGM, which we hope you will 
support, and which you can read on pages 84 to 109 in  
this Annual Report.
Board composition
During the year, sadly, we saw the departure of non-
executives Ray O’Rourke and Judy Dlamini. Ray joined the 
Board in 2009 and stepped down to concentrate on his 
business commitments as chairman and chief executive  
of Laing O’Rourke. His wise counsel and experience of 
complex projects, safety and innovation were of great value 
to us. Judy joined us in January 2014 and left to devote  
more time to her business commitments as chair of Mbekani 
Group in South Africa; her contributions to the Board and  
its Committees, drawing on her experiences across a range  
of geographies and sectors, including mining, were greatly 
appreciated by her colleagues. We are now nearing the  
end of the process to recruit replacement non-executive 
directors with similar skills and experience, and will 
announce one or more appointments in the near future.
After an exhaustive international search, we appointed 
Stephen Pearce as our new finance director following  
René Médori’s decision to retire. René has rendered great 
professional service to the Group for 12 years, for which  
we thank him, and we wish him all success in the future. 
Stephen, who comes to us from Fortescue Metals Group  
in Australia, joined us at the end of January and will succeed 
René at the conclusion of the AGM in April. René will remain 
with us until the end of the year to provide continuity in the 
transition and focus on specific projects. 
Chairman succession
In February 2017, I informed the Nomination Committee 
that I believed the time was right for the Board to seek a 
successor. I will have served some eight years and have 
seen Anglo American emerge in a strong position following 
the mining commodities crisis. I am honoured to have 
served as chairman of such a great company and I will leave 
behind not only a highly competent Board but a world class 
management team.
MY THANKS
I am grateful to my fellow directors for their wise counsel  
and support during a most challenging few years, and I 
particularly wish to acknowledge the substantial additional 
time and effort they spent on building the company’s 
resilience in the face of the crisis in the mining industry.  
On behalf of the Board, I also wish to thank Mark Cutifani 
and his executive team, who are delivering value in so  
many ways. I also would like to express my gratitude in  
this, our centenary year, to everyone who is working for 
Anglo American during this turbulent period, which has 
meant considerable restructuring in our business.
OUR STRATEGIC REPORT
Our 2016 strategic report, from pages 2 to 64, was reviewed 
and approved by the Board on 20 February 2017.
Sir John Parker 
Chairman
 05
Strategic report
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2016
