 24942.04   13/10/2016   Proof 6
Introduction
I am very pleased with the progress we 
have made this year. Our revenues have 
continued to grow, +8.6% to £14.7m (2015: 
£13.5m). Our export strategy is already 
making early gains from ‘low hanging 
fruit’ with more to follow once product 
registrations have been made in the 
various territories we serve.
We have been in an investment phase for 
almost three years now. As expected the 
products from that investment are now 
starting to flow from the development 
pipeline and, at the same time, our core 
business continues to perform well in a 
tough commercial environment. Projects 
further back in the development pipeline 
are also progressing well in accordance 
with plan.
Our shareholders can be assured that our 
plans are on track and we are confident 
they we will continue to deliver.
Momentum in the period has been 
supported by further work to ensure the 
business has a strong platform for growth.
Bu s in essR e vi e w
Growth has come from all areas of the 
business.
Licensed Veterinary Medicines
The Licensed Veterinary Medicines group 
continued to grow strongly in the financial 
year increasing by 7.7% to over £9.2m 
(2015: £8.6m). In general the new products 
we have launched over the last five years 
continue to gain market share and grow 
revenues, while the older products in the 
final phases of their product life cycles are 
being eroded by commercial pressures 
and by substitution. However, five new 
pharmaceutical products were launched 
on distribution late in the prior year. With 
no new products to launch in this period 
this allowed us to focus on consolidating 
our market position for these products; the 
combined revenues of these five products 
increased by 262% to £0.95m (2015: 
£0.26m).
C o mp a n i o nA n i m a lI d e n t i f i c at i o n
Compulsory microchipping of dogs became 
law in England, Scotland and Wales in April 
2016. Not only is it a legal requirement for 
all dogs over the age of eight weeks to be 
microchipped it is also mandatory for the 
dog’s keeper’s name and contact details 
to be registered on a DEFRA approved 
database. We did not experience any uplift 
in microchip sales or database registrations 
until April when we had an unprecedented 
surge in both. Through careful planning 
and the considerable efforts of our staff 
and suppliers we managed to supply all 
our veterinary customers and ensure all 
registrations were fulfilled in a timely 
manner, unlike several of our competitors. 
It is too soon after the disruption to the 
market caused by this legislative change 
to conclude the long-term impact, but we 
believe there will be a lasting reduction 
in realised prices and microchip volumes. 
This was predicted and so plans are in the 
advanced stage to evolve our business 
models and market offering. 
CH I E F  EX E C UTIVE ’ S  R EVI EW
“We have made 
great progress 
in the year with 
increased revenues, 
our development 
pipeline delivering, 
exports growing and 
exploring exciting 
opportunities to 
invest in innovation.”
IAIN MENNEER Chief Executive Officer
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock Code: ANCR
11
STRATEGIC REPORT 
Our Performance 24942.04   13/10/2016   Proof 6
Animal Welfare Products
The Animal Welfare Product group grew 
again in the period with an increase of 
5.1% to £2.8m (2015: £2.6m). Our Infusion 
Accessories range grew by almost 10% as 
a result of sales and marketing focus and 
withdrawal of a modest competitor during 
the year. The Hygiene Products range grew 
too as a result of renewed focus following 
the launch of a new range of hard surface 
cleaners in the period which increased by 
12% to £0.67m. 
E xp o r t
Martin Gore joined Animalcare on 1
st
 
July 2015 in the role of Head of Export 
Development to focus on growing our 
product distribution in existing and 
new territories in Europe as this had 
underperformed in the past due to lack of 
focus. A year on, this has proved to be a 
great success not only growing revenues of 
existing products in existing territories 
but also sales of existing over-the-counter 
veterinary medicines products in new 
territories. This has resulted in export sales 
growth of almost 23% on the prior period. 
Martin has signed distribution agreements 
for some of our veterinary licensed 
products in territories well beyond Europe. 
Being regulated products there will be a 
modest delay until first sales while local 
licences are secured.
P e o pl e
Animalcare, like any organisation, is only 
as good as its employees. Therefore we 
have worked hard over the last three 
years during our investment phase to 
make sure we have the right people in the 
right roles to deliver our plan. We are well 
through this process to ensure we have the 
necessary roles covered and have made 
further important progress during the 
period. Underpinning the changes we have 
made to our team was the introduction 
of a Talent Management Programme 
which is a framework to make sure we 
recruit, develop, reward and engage all our 
employees as best we can.
In addition to recruitment in export 
sales, we have further strengthened our 
product development and registration 
team with appointments in both areas. To 
reflect the evolution of the UK veterinary 
customers towards consolidated corporate 
customers and buying groups we have 
strengthened our sales team yet further 
with experienced key account specialists 
now on the team.
We have conducted a review of our supply 
chain and identified key areas to improve 
supplier performance and demand 
planning. Consequently we have started to 
build a specialist supply chain team late in 
the period.
CH I E F  EX E C UTIVE ’ S  R EVI EW CONTINUED
12 24942.04   13/10/2016   Proof 6
P r od u c tDe v e lo pm e n t
Three years ago we overhauled our 
product development activities and 
embarked on a large number of new 
projects. These projects were expected to 
take approximately three years to reach 
commercial launch. It is therefore very 
satisfying to see the successful registration 
of three products in the period, right on 
target. 
Two years ago Animalcare took the 
decision to move the contract manufacture 
of its largest product, Aqupharm I.V. Fluids, 
away from a global manufacturer to one 
better suited in terms of flexibility, cost, 
size and culture. This was the largest 
development and regulatory project 
tackled to date. I am pleased to report 
that the project went smoothly and was 
fully implemented in H2 FY16 with no 
product supply disruption or impact on our 
customers.
The impact of the contract manufacturing 
move detailed above meant the loss 
of UK distribution rights for a general 
anaesthetic, Isocare. We embarked on a 
project to register our own product. The 
product was successfully registered in 
H2 and has since been launched to the 
market, again with no disruption, in Q1 
FY17.
Both these products were solely UK 
licensed so we took the opportunity to 
extend the product authorisations to 
several European territories. 
Another product successfully registered 
in H2 was Acecare, a premedicant to 
complement our extensive anaesthetic 
and analgesic range. It is the first generic 
acepromazine on the UK veterinary market.
In all we submitted five licence applications 
during the period, a record number for 
Animalcare. Furthermore, during the 
period we prepared, entirely in-house, 
Animalcare’s first dossier submission to 
the veterinary regulatory authorities. Until 
now we have relied to a varying degree on 
external consultancies. This is a measure 
of the level of experience and quality of 
personnel that now work in the technical 
and regulatory team. 
The further strengthening of our product 
development and registration function 
gives us greater capacity to uncover novel 
and more complex product opportunities 
by expanding our network. We have 
a growing database of such ideas. We 
are also attracting more distribution 
opportunities from a wider pool of animal 
health companies, most from outside the 
UK.
Br e x it
The referendum result in June 2016 
will inevitably have an impact on our 
business, although the extent of this is, 
of course, still unclear. The timing of the 
result allowed us to put plans in place to 
incorporate the initial currency instability 
into our new financial year and we will 
continue to monitor the situation and take 
necessary and available action.
The encouraging early progress of our 
sales in territories outside Europe will go 
some way to diversifying our markets in 
the short-term. The launch of products will 
take one to two years to materialise due 
to the various pharmaceutical regulatory 
requirements in place.
Subsequent changes to the European 
pharmaceutical regulatory framework are 
of course currently unknown but we will 
monitor this closely and put plans in place 
to protect our business. 
Summary and Outlook
I am confident that we have built a strong 
and scalable platform in the business. 
We will continue to focus hard on our 
in-house development pipeline and our 
efforts to source novel products. The 
strong progress made on our distribution 
territory expansion will be cemented 
and we will make further progress with 
regulatory registrations through the year. 
We recognise that it is vital for the future 
of the business that we identify the right 
products and invest in novel products. 
Animalcare will continue to be active on 
this key strategic front. 
Whilst the animal health industry evolves 
with customer consolidations and supplier 
M&A we have shown that we can continue 
to grow organically through launching new 
products and providing a superior service 
to our customers.
With the first products successfully through 
our development pipeline we will start 
to see early revenue growth with more 
significant impact in subsequent periods. 
More product registrations are expected in 
the current period. 
In summary, Animalcare is in good health, 
generating strong cash flows to invest in 
the business and at such a rate that we 
are in a position to step up our investment 
in products and wider opportunities to 
provide the long-term success of the 
business.
IAIN MENNEER 
Chief Executive Officer
Animalcare Group plc Annual Report 2016
www.animalcaregroup.co.uk
Stock Code: ANCR
13
STRATEGIC REPORT 
Our Performance
