 24942.04   13/10/2016   Proof 6
C HA I R M AN ’ S  S T A TE M E NT
Animalcare has performed well during 
the financial year, particularly during 
the second half, with growth from 
all three product groups: Licensed 
Veterinary Medicines, Companion Animal 
Identification, and Animal Welfare 
Products. The core medicines group 
achieved increased sales of c8.0% during 
the year.
Financial Trading
Group revenue increased by 8.6% 
from £13.5m to £14.7m. This was 
achieved principally by increasing 
sales of Licensed Veterinary Medicines 
both in the UK and Export markets by 
over £650,000 combined. Incremental 
revenue of approximately £300,000 was 
also recognised from the introduction 
of compulsory microchipping in dogs 
during April which benefited the second 
half performance. Basic EPS increased 
from 12.1p to 12.5p. Cash generation 
has remained strong, with year end 
cash increasing from £5.8m to £7.1m. 
This has been achieved during a period 
of significant investment in product 
development to £1.6m together with 
recruiting more colleagues in all areas of 
the business to help drive future growth. 
P e o pl e
These good results are testament to the 
strength of our Senior Management Team 
which continues to flourish under the able 
leadership of our CEO Iain Menneer. We 
have further strengthened our product 
development, marketing, sales and 
distribution teams in order to continue to 
grow your business in the future.
P r od u c tDe v e lo pm e n t
Our European partners have more than 
filled the gap we had in our development 
pipeline during this financial year. This 
allowed your Company to increase sales 
of its generic drugs whilst we continued 
to progress our own development 
programme. The first products from our 
renewed development pipeline have been 
licensed and launched in the year and we 
expect further launches over the following 
two years.
Dividend
Given the strong cash generation during 
the financial year your Board proposes to 
increase the final dividend to 4.7 pence per 
share. With 1.8 pence paid as the interim 
dividend this takes the total for the year to 
6.5 pence per share representing growth of 
c7%. from 6.1 pence last year. This is well 
covered by both increased earnings and 
cash flow and still leaves sufficient cash to 
invest in our future.
P ros pec t s
Given the pipeline from both our in-house 
product development and that of our 
European partners, plus a much improved 
export business, your Board looks forward 
to continuing your Company’s record of 
consistent growth. This is being delivered 
by a stronger, more capable management 
team and committed and hard-working 
colleagues. I would like to personally thank 
them all for their dedication and hard work 
to the success of your business.
JAMES LAMBERT 
Non-Executive Chairman
“Our strategy is 
on track to build a 
strong business and 
invest in product 
development 
and geographic 
expansion.”
JAMES LAMBERT Chairman
02
