 Arden Partners plc Annual Report 2010
2
The year’s results are satisfactory and have been delivered 
against a background of challenging conditions and subdued 
equity markets.  Despite this, I am pleased to have seen the 
Group deliver an underlying profit and positive operating cash 
flows before changes in working capital.  These results should 
also be read in the context of the trading update which the 
Board released on 10 September 2010 then advising that the 
Group was unlikely to meet market expectations.  At that stage 
there was no clarity that certain transactions in the pipeline 
would be delivered by the year end so it was deemed prudent 
to issue the update.  Subsequently two large transactions 
occurred by the year end as announced on 2 November 2010.
Arden operates in a highly competitive market place and 
to succeed a broking business needs to have either scale 
or specialist products.  The Board has considered potential 
acquisitions and merger opportunities but none were 
considered suitable.  In the latter months of 2010 Arden has 
sought to reorganise and position itself to compete in what 
could be continued difficult markets.  To this end the Group 
has made changes at both Board and operating levels.
On 22 December 2010 we announced a number of Board 
changes with the appointment of two new independent Non 
Executive Directors with expertise in the Group’s two main 
revenue generating areas, Mark Ansell and Peter Moon.  At 
the same time the Group also announced the appointment 
of its Chief Operating Officer, Steve Wassell, as an Executive 
Director.  This appointment was designed to assist our Chief 
Executive Officer, Jonathan Keeling, to continue to focus on 
our growing Indian franchise.
At an operational level, the Board is overseeing changes 
designed to focus coverage and resource on core UK sectors 
and those with reach into India.  Following the departure of a 
number of staff earlier in the year, and with tight management 
of fixed overhead costs, the Board believes the Group is well 
placed to deliver profitability in the current financial year.  
Our closing balance sheet is strong with a healthy regulatory 
capital position.
On behalf of all of Arden’s stakeholders I would like to thank 
both Sir David Rowe-Ham and Tony Bartlett following their 
retirement from the Board at the end of December 2010.  Sir 
David has been Chairman since Arden’s admission to AIM in 
July 2006 and Tony has carried out various roles, including 
that of CEO, having been involved with Arden almost since its 
inception in 2002.
Finally, I would like to thank all staff and clients for their 
commitment to the business.
Lord Flight
Interim Chairman
18 January 2011
Chairman’s Statement
