 8  |  Chief executive officer’s review Arrow Global Group PLC |  Annual Report 2013
I am pleased to report that in addition to raising both debt 
and equity in the public markets in 2013, our business once 
again posted strong results within what remains a competitive 
market landscape. We acquired debt portfolios for an aggregate 
purchase price of £101.3 million, at an overall target net internal 
rate of return (“IRR”) of 22% for the 2013 vintage. Following these 
acquisitions, the face value of total assets under management 
increased to £9.6 billion, including purchased portfolios of £7.2 
billion, and the expected cumulative unlevered return on our 
portfolios stood at 26.3%. We maintained an adjusted EBITDA 
ratio of 70.1%, with underlying profits of £25.2 million. Within 
the new capital structure, post IPO underlying return on equity 
(“ROE”) was 26.5%.
Looking forward, our strategy remains to grow the business whilst maintaining a strong 
focus on underwriting discipline and portfolio returns. We will therefore focus principally 
on earnings per share (“EPS”) growth and ROE as the key financial measures by which we 
will manage the business.
The business’ strong performance was a reflection of our focus on executing against 
our vision, to be the leading data driven debt purchaser, and our strategy, to grow by 
leveraging our sophisticated data-driven business model and leading position in growing 
markets, via the following strategic objectives:
1.  Establish Arrow Global as the most respected debt purchaser, with a leading 
position in compliance, risk management and treating customers fairly. 
  During the year, we made significant progress in implementing a three lines of 
defence risk framework, and we expect to be in a strong position for entry to the FCA 
regulatory framework in 2014. Our Financial Ombudsman Service (“FOS”) complaints 
remain amongst the lowest in the industry, at 17 per one million accounts.
2. Grow the business while maintaining rigorous underwriting discipline. 
  In a competitive UK market, we were able to use the breadth of our origination 
channels and the flexibility of our business model to purchase the portfolios offering 
the best returns. This is reflected in the achievement of both our purchasing and 
returns targets.
3. Optimise cost to collect while maintaining a flexible cost base. 
  Despite purchasing across a broader range of asset classes, we managed to  
improve the cost to collect ratio, to 21.9% of collections (2012: 22.1%).
4.  Continue to utilise our data capability to invest in portfolios underpinned  
by paying accounts, with the opportunity to convert non-paying accounts. 
  Approximately 76% of our investment in 2013 was in paying accounts, with further 
enhancements to our data assets made during the year, including both the expansion 
of our Proprietary Collections Bureau (“PCB”) and the sourcing of raw data from a 
second credit bureau.
Chief executive officer’s review Chief executive officer’s review  |  9 Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
5. Maintain a prudent balance sheet. 
 Net debt to adjusted EBITDA stood at 2.0x at 31 December 2013, with significant  
 facility headroom.
6. Maintain a leading position in financial services in the UK and Portugal. 
  In October, we were ranked first in the 2013 OC&C Credit Management and Debt 
Collection Index of all European debt purchase and collections companies.
7.  Pursue a disciplined approach to expanding into new asset classes  
and geographies.
  During the year, we extended our presence in the UK student loans and second lien 
mortgage markets, following successful pilots in previous periods. In addition, we 
advanced our market research and pipeline development in new geographies.
 Underlying this strong performance is our commitment to working with customers to 
understand their circumstances and establish long term affordable repayment plans  
that allow them to restore their financial standing at a rate that meets their needs.  
This approach reflects the principles of the Lending Standards Board and the Office of 
Fair Trading Guidelines, and is further reinforced by our own research conducted during 
the year with Bristol University into barriers to engagement. This research highlighted the 
positive impact that a responsible creditor can play in securing customer engagement, 
and we are planning significant further enhancements to our customers’ experience in 
2014 as a result.
 As part of our continuing commitment to place the customer at the heart of the 
business, we launched our new branding in October. I believe our updated and refreshed 
brand better reflects who we are as a business, and is more approachable for customers. 
As part of the rebranding exercise, we developed enhanced values for the business, 
which I think speak volumes about who we are as a team, and what we aspire to:  
respect, integrity, transparency, energy and innovation. 
We turn our attention to 2014 with a solid platform for future growth. We see a 
strong pipeline of portfolio acquisition opportunities ahead, albeit against continued 
competition within the UK market. Critical to our continued success is our talented team, 
all of whom are key to the implementation of our business strategy; with their continued 
dedication and skills, the coming year promises to be a fruitful one for the business.
Tom Drury
Chief executive officer 
4 March 2014
 
“Looking forward, our 
strategy is to grow  
the business whilst 
maintaining a strong 
focus on underwriting 
discipline and portfolio 
returns.”  
