 Chairman’s statement  |  7
Arrow Global Group PLC had a transformational year in 2013, 
most clearly illustrated by the launch of our £220 million senior 
secured notes in January and successful initial public offering 
on the London Stock Exchange in October. This past year also 
marked the start of my service as chairman of the Group.  
I am pleased to be a part of this dynamic and innovative group 
of people, without whom the achievement of recent major 
milestones – and more – would not have been possible.
I’d like to thank Sir George Mathewson, who stepped down as chairman of the board in 
2013 after four years of guiding the business through its critical growth and development 
phase, which provided the platform for our future as a publicly traded company.  
Sir George remains in the service of the Group as a non-executive director and the  
senior independent director, and we are grateful to him for his continuing commitment 
and guidance.
We also welcomed a new board of directors in 2013. Each member brings a unique skillset 
which strengthens the business’ platform and base of expertise. Welcome to Iain Cornish, 
Ian Gascoigne, Gillian Key-Vice, Lindsey McMurray and Robin Phipps as non-executive 
directors, who join our executive directors Tom Drury, Zachary Lewy and Rob Memmott.
The team remains committed to consistently delivering against our vision and strategy, 
and to creating sustainable returns for shareholders while continuing to serve our 
customers, creditors and other stakeholders in a responsible, market leading manner.
The year ahead will see the regulation of the industry migrate to the Financial Conduct 
Authority (“FCA”). We welcome this shift and believe it provides the correct framework 
for the industry. Most importantly, it will result in greater consistency for customers, 
as buyers join creditors in the same regulatory regime. We are well progressed in 
our internal readiness programme, and look forward to continuing our fundamental 
commitment to high conduct standards within the governance of the FCA.
One of my first tasks as chairman has been to ensure we have an appropriate corporate 
governance structure, as outlined on pages 38-45 of this report, in place for life as a listed 
company to enable us to successfully deliver our objectives. As part of our initial duties 
within this framework, my fellow members of the board and I confirm that the annual 
report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides 
the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and 
business model of the Company.
With that, we look forward to welcoming our shareholders to our first annual general 
meeting on 28 May 2014 in Manchester.
Jonathan Bloomer
Chairman 
4 March 2014
Chairman’s statement
Arrow Global Group PLC  |  Annual Report 2013
