 Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
04
Chairman’s Statement
As Chairman, it is my pleasure to report full-year results which 
demonstrate a strong performance for the year ended 
31 December 2016.
The hallmark of this past year has been rapid, assured and 
continual progress against all of our priority goals. The IPO 
served as a catalyst for the seamless evolution of our focused 
portfolio of events and information services brands into a more 
integrated and customer-centric group.
Our larger, market-leading and scalable brands continued  
to lead the way with the development of new products  
and delivered strong organic growth. We augmented our 
capabilities with enhanced, data-driven forecasting  
and digital tools that enable more engagement with  
our customer communities. 
The acquisition of One Click Retail in August 2016 
strengthened our e-commerce analytics offering across the 
fashion and consumer product industries and our most recent 
announcement – the transaction with Cannes Lions’ long-time 
partner MediaLink announced in February 2017 – reinforces 
our digital advisory expertise to sectors not limited to the 
branded communication industry. Both of these high-growth 
acquisitions improve the diversification of Ascential’s footprint 
outside of the UK. 
The Company continues to refine its portfolio and, after year 
end, announced the planned disposal of 13 publishing-led 
Heritage Brands, the first of which, Health Service Journal,  
was sold in January 2017. 
2008-2012
• Acquired by funds 
advised by Apax 
Partners/Guardian  
Media Group
• Duncan Painter appointed 
as CEO 
• Transform programme 
– £37m invested
2013
• Mandy Gradden 
appointed CFO
• Acquired Educar, Mindset 
and Stylesight
• Disposal of Infrastructure 
Journal and AME Info 
Our History
Scott Forbes
Chairman Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
05
Credit for this year’s performance is squarely placed with our 
talented and energetic management team who have been open 
to advice from a newly formed plc Board. Our Board was fully 
code-compliant shortly after the IPO with a broad range of 
relevant capabilities and a gender diversity that was recognised 
to be the best amongst the 350 most valuable FTSE companies 
with 57% female representation – a profile that is reflective of 
our broader employee base. 
Our former principal shareholders participated in an orderly 
disposal of the majority of their shares, resulting in a diversified 
share register of quality institutional investors. We are grateful 
to have been the beneficiaries of sound guidance received 
from former Chairman Tom Hall of Apax, and Non-Executive 
Director David Pemsel of Guardian Media Group, both of 
whom stepped down from the Board in September 2016 with 
our thanks for their contributions.
Continual customer engagement and a commitment to improve 
our proposition by our 1,600+ talented employees have led to 
admirable accomplishments in 2016. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our employees 
and customers for what has been a very successful year.
Group performance
The 2016 financial year was another successful one. Reported 
revenues from continuing operations grew by 16.8%, including 
the beneficial impacts of both acquisitions and currency. 
Revenue from continuing operations grew 9.5% on an Organic 
basis, Adjusted EBITDA was up 11.5% to £95.9m, margins 
expanded from 29.9% to 32.0% and free cash flow conversion 
was 85%. As these results show, we place a premium on 
organic growth. We are also committed to enhancing our 
proposition and capabilities through selective acquisitions.
Dividend
Ascential plc was incorporated in January 2016 and, as 
indicated at the time of the IPO, the Board targets a dividend 
payout ratio of 30% of Adjusted profit after tax. Consequently, 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 3.2p per share 
to be paid on 15 June 2017 to shareholders on the register on 
19 May 2017 which, together with the Company’s maiden 
interim dividend of 1.5p paid in November 2016, makes a total 
dividend for the 2016 financial year of 4.7p. 
Outlook
While still early in 2017, we are encouraged by the current 
level of forward bookings and solid performances at events 
that have already taken place. The market is very dynamic and 
the Board is confident about our prospects for continued 
success in 2017.
Scott Forbes
Chairman
24 February 2017
2014
• Business welcomed  
Money 20/20
2015
• Business welcomed 
RetailNet Group
• Disposal of Media  
Business Insight
• Rebranded to Ascential
2016
• IPO on London  
Stock Exchange
• Business welcomed  
One Click Retail
• Disposal of Naidex
2017
• Heritage Brands  
held for sale
• Disposal of Health  
Service Journal
• Business announced 
acquisition of MediaLink
