 Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
10
Chief Executive’s Review
2016 was another year of strong organic growth as we grew 
both revenues and profits, driven by our focus on our top 
brands and customer retention as well as the innovative and 
creative nature of our organisation. The launch of new 
products such as WGSN Insight, Money20/20 Europe and 
Lions Entertainment made a significant contribution to our 
2016 success and we also made substantial progress in 
reshaping our portfolio of market-leading brands towards 
those with higher organic growth. 
Track record of growth, high margins and good cash 
generation
We delivered a strong operating performance in 2016 with  
a 9.5% Organic growth in revenue from continuing operations 
to £299.6m and an 11.5% Organic growth in Adjusted EBITDA 
from continuing operations to £95.9m with an expansion  
in margin from 29.9% in 2015 to 32.0% in 2016. 
We also continued to generate good cash flow with free  
cash flow of £90.9m (2015: £79.9m), representing free cash 
conversion of 85% (2015: 88%). This cash generation, in 
combination with the net proceeds of the IPO, has enabled  
us to invest in the business whilst also acquiring high quality 
growth companies, managing our balance sheet and returning 
capital to shareholders through dividends.
Clear organic growth strategy
We continue to deploy multiple initiatives for growth across 
our brands with the aim of firstly retaining existing customers, 
secondly increasing the number of new customers and thirdly 
growing the average revenue per customer. 
Our 2016 growth initiatives built on those deployed over 
recent years and included the launch of new digital products 
(such as WGSN Insight and a newly expanded and upgraded 
version of WGSN Instock), geographical expansion of our 
events (such as Bett Middle East and Money20/20 Europe)  
and show extensions (such as Lions Entertainment). 
Focused portfolio of market-leading brands underpinned by 
diversified and recurring revenue streams
Brand portfolio
Following our decision to separate and hold the Group’s  
13 Heritage Brands for sale and our acquisitions of One Click 
Retail and, after the year end, the acquisition of MediaLink,  
we will now operate a focused portfolio of 20 market-leading 
brands. 16 of these hold clear number one positions in their 
respective markets. We firmly believe that our focus of 
management time on a smaller group of market-leading brands 
is a key driver of our continued organic growth success. 
Our top five brands by Adjusted EBITDA are:
 
• in Information Services: WGSN and Groundsure; and
• in Exhibitions & Festivals: Cannes Lions, Spring and 
Autumn Fair and Money20/20 
Duncan Painter
Chief Executive Officer Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
11
These top brands remain our primary focus for capital 
allocation. Through this focus, together they grow faster than 
our other brands and their contribution is an increasing 
proportion of the Group’s revenues and profits. In 2016, our 
top five brands represented 69% of the Group’s revenue from 
continuing operations (2015: 66%) and 81% of our Adjusted 
EBITDA (2015: 75%). 
Revenue by type
The Group benefits from diverse revenue streams, the majority 
of which have recurring characteristics. Following the 
treatment of the Heritage Brands as discontinued, the most 
significant change over the last year has been a reduction in 
print advertising, which now represents less than 1% of Group 
revenue (2015: 4%). 
Revenue by geography
Ascential is growing strongly in international markets.  
The majority of our brands serve a global customer base. 
Accelerated by our acquisition of One Click Retail and the 
treatment of the Heritage Brands as discontinued, our share of 
revenue from overseas markets increased again and now just 
38% of revenues come from customers based in the UK (2015: 
48%). The recently announced acquisition of MediaLink will 
further reduce the dependence on UK markets. 
The proportion of revenues from the Americas grew to 29% 
despite recessionary headwinds in Brazil, driven by the 
performance of Money20/20, WGSN and Cannes Lions and 
the acquisition of One Click Retail. Asia Pacific, Middle East 
and Africa and other Europe contributed 11%, 4% and  
18% respectively.
Disciplined operational approach
The foundation of our growth is, and will continue to be, our 
focus on customer retention. There is no better way to judge 
the quality of our products than to measure how many 
customers choose to renew their contracts with us each year 
and we spend considerable time reviewing those customers 
who do churn. Retention rates have again performed well 
across our top brands. We have also seen our broader Net 
Promoter Scores and product usage statistics increasing. Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
12
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Portfolio management
We regularly adjust and optimise our portfolio of brands.  
We continue to assess both a range of bolt-on acquisition 
opportunities as well as the potential disposal of certain  
lower growth or sub-scale elements of our portfolio. 
Joint venture in China
We were pleased to see WGSN’s long-anticipated Chinese joint 
venture with CTIC start trading in April 2016 and have now 
further solidified our relationship and funded the joint venture 
with an investment of £4.5m to develop a specific product for 
the Chinese domestic and international markets.
One Click Retail
In August 2016 we acquired One Click Retail, a fast growing 
US-based provider of analytics that helps major brands 
optimise their e-commerce activities. Customers include 
consumer products companies such as Procter & Gamble,  
HP, Unilever, Hamilton Beach, Nestle and Panasonic. Revenue 
is generated predominantly through recurring annual 
subscriptions to the company’s Dashboard product, which 
provides insights to help customers drive sales through 
Amazon and other e-commerce retailers – an increasingly 
important channel for many of them. The insights focus on 
product market share, its drivers, and the actions that can be 
taken to increase sales. We introduced analysts and investors 
to the product in detail during our November Capital Markets 
Day. One Click Retail more than doubled its revenues in 2016.
Heritage Brands
As part of our growth strategy to focus our resources and 
investment on our largest brands and those with the highest 
growth potential, after the year end, in January 2017, we 
announced that we had separated 13 Heritage Brands into a 
separate operating entity that is held for sale. The Heritage 
Brands are Health Service Journal, MEED, Drapers, Nursing 
Times, Local Government Chronicle, Construction News, New 
Civil Engineer, Ground Engineering, H&V News and RAC, Retail 
Jeweller, Materials Recycling World and the architecture titles 
including Architects’ Journal, The Architectural Review and the 
associated World Architecture Festival. Each provides essential 
content to the loyal subscribers and industries they serve 
across three platforms – digital, events and print. The Heritage 
Brands generated revenue of £57.9m in 2016 (2015: £62.5m) 
and £11.6m of Adjusted EBITDA (2015: £14.3m), constant 
currency declines of 10.2% and 19.7% respectively.
Consistent with the evolution of our internal management 
reporting structure during 2016, we have reported the 
Heritage Brands as a separate segment. As a result of ongoing 
discussions, the Board now considers a sale of the segment to 
be highly probable and has therefore classified it as a 
discontinued operation.
In January 2017, we were pleased to announce the sale  
of the first of the Heritage Brands, Health Service Journal,  
to Wilmington plc. This was the first key milestone in finding 
the right future home for these brands and highlighted their 
attractiveness to new owners. Ascential plc  Annual Report 2016
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT
13
MediaLink
After the year end, in February 2017, we announced the 
acquisition of US-based MediaLink. MediaLink provides 
advisory and business services to media platforms and brands 
seeking to drive growth through better marketing. Serving the 
consumer goods and services segment, it has worked with 
Cannes Lions’ customers since 2011 where it hosts content 
and client-oriented meetings and events as part of the official 
Festival fringe. MediaLink fits Ascential’s strategy to own 
market-leading brands in selected complementary 
marketplaces that offer trusted information and valuable 
connections to businesses. 
Management
Effective 1 August 2016, the two operating companies in the 
Exhibitions & Festivals segment were combined under the 
leadership of Philip Thomas, formerly CEO of the Lions 
Festivals operating company. Mark Shashoua, formerly CEO  
of i2i Events, left the Company to pursue other opportunities 
with our sincere thanks for his achievements. We are delighted 
that Jose Papa, formerly CEO of WGSN, accepted the 
leadership of Cannes Lions and that Kevin Silk, formerly COO 
of WGSN, assumed the leadership of WGSN with Natasha 
Christie-Miller remaining as CEO of Plexus. 
Our former Strategy Director, Michael Lisowski, has taken on 
an expanded role as Chief Operating Officer for Ascential.  
His new position covers proposition development, customer 
insight and research and product management and is a critical 
investment in skills and capabilities to assist our brand teams  
to continue our growth and also to raise the bar on the quality 
and ambition of the products we create. 
We were also pleased to welcome Stephen Martincic to the 
Group as Chief Brand and Marketing Officer from FCB, the 
global, fully integrated marketing communications company, 
where he was responsible for building FCB’s brand across the 
globe. Stephen has taken on a critical new role for the Group  
to ensure we are truly focusing on the fast-changing needs of 
our customers and honing how we position and message our 
capabilities to maximise customer engagement and our organic 
growth objectives. 
These changes illustrate the strength and depth of our 
management team and we are delighted that our succession 
planning has allowed us to be able to promote from within the 
Company as well as attract exciting new talent.
Strategic priorities for 2017
Our strategy and priorities for 2017 are on track – we will 
continue to focus most of our efforts on organic growth 
opportunities underpinned by customer retention as well as 
leveraging the competencies of newly acquired companies. 
Throughout 2017 we expect to benefit from the increasing 
convergence of event products that connect our customers 
and information services that inform them. 
Outlook
The new financial year has started well. Since the year end, 
Spring Fair, Bett London and Pure Spring have taken place and 
performed overall in line with our expectations. While still 
early in 2017, we are encouraged by the current level of 
forward bookings and are confident of another good year  
of growth for the Group.
Our customers and our people
Our continued strong performance and results would simply 
not have been possible without the dedication and 
commitment of our teams across the business and their passion 
to serve our long, loyal and valued customers. 
I want to thank our customers and our teams for continuing  
to be at the heart of Ascential’s continued success.
Duncan Painter
Chief Executive Officer
24 February 2017
