 Hugh Ward Non-executive Chairman
2 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
¡e past year has been one of signi”cant and positive 
transformation for the Company and led by chief executive 
oœcer Jonathan Polin we have sought to build on the major 
progress that has been achieved and establish a ”rm strategy 
for growth over the coming year. 
Not only has this been a year of great change and challenge 
for us, but it has been one for the ”nancial services industry in 
general. ¡e New Year heralded the introduction of the 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) which, while providing 
great opportunity, also created a challenging environment 
with ever-increasing regulatory and market pressures. It is, 
however, extremely encouraging to see some return of 
investor con”dence developing in markets during the period 
and an increasing appetite to seek investment returns once 
more, albeit against an uncertain economic background. 
Financial results 
As you will read in the chief executive’s report, the  
Company has achieved ”nancial results which show a more 
positive outcome with underlying EBITDA of £2.8 million  
for the year. 
¡is outcome has been achieved whilst making signi”cant 
investment in our infrastructure, operating platform and sta¦, 
thereby clearly establishing the building blocks required for 
our future growth. Signi”cant cost savings have been made in 
line with the broad plan and the Company maintains a strong 
”nancial position with a balance sheet displaying net cash in 
excess of £8 million and total net assets, excluding assets held 
for sale, goodwill and intangibles, of £9.8 million against 
regulatory capital of £5.4 million.
Despite the signi”cant exceptional costs incurred in the 
transformation of the Company and the accelerated 
depreciation of legacy systems now redundant, the loss  
for the year attributable to equity holders has reduced to 
£(2.1) million from £(2.6) million in 2011/12.
Y ear of transformation
I have referred to the signi”cant change in the operating 
environment of the Company. Post the year end the sale  
of our pension administration business allows us to focus our 
full attention on our core asset management and ”nancial 
planning businesses. Two further events underpin our 
ambitions; most notably the outsourcing of our operating 
platform bringing all our asset management activities  
onto a single platform, and the development of a clearly  
articulated, centralised, investment research and asset 
management proposition. 
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report the results of 
your Company, Ashcourt Rowan plc, for 
the 12 months ended 31 March 2013. 
This is my first report as, having joined 
the Board in July last year, I assumed the 
role of chairman on 1st January 2013.  3 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
The year ahead
Our vision is clearly stated to be the premier, strong leader in 
the wealth management industry in the UK. We now have in 
place the tools required to move forward positively with 
enhanced revenues and growth in all aspects of our business. 
At the heart of our culture must lie the desire to provide the 
highest level of service to our valued clients and with recent 
developments we are now well-placed to achieve this aim. 
One of the most rewarding aspects of my early months as 
chairman has been the passion, ambition and commitment 
demonstrated by the executive team and all our valuable 
personnel. We are fortunate to have an outstanding team in 
place and the recent edition of some signi”cant appointments, 
most notably Harry Burnham as a key investment director 
and Gaius Jones as chief executive of our ”nancial planning 
business, have added to our pool of talent. 
¡is year is all about exploiting the opportunities for growth, 
both organic and inorganic, supported by a far stronger and 
more positive operating environment. ¡e tireless 
commitment of the team must not go unrecognised and I 
would like to thank Jonathan Polin, his executive team and 
each employee at Ashcourt Rowan for the commitment that 
has allowed us to achieve such a change in fortune. 
Lastly, and most importantly, I would like to thank our 
clients and shareholders who are at the heart of every decision 
we take; it is our desire to reward the faith they have shown  
in us with continued progress and by seeking to enhance 
shareholder value in the year ahead.  
 
 
 
 
Hugh Ward 
Non-executive Chairman
1 July 2013
Overview 
Chairman’s statement
Underlying EBITBA (£m) 
• Total including pension administration
• Continuing business (excluding pension administration)
Full year
 Mar-12 Mar-13
0.26
2.98
0.45
2.76
