 04    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Report of the Chairman
The year was one of significant 
transformation for the Group. 
 ost notably we have seen the roup complete 
a series of initiatives. e have strengthened our 
management team and re ned our strategy.
Kenneth West, Non-Executive Chairman
 un n er ana ement an in uence n un n er n uence re tate at  e tem er  re ucin un   mi ion
£4.08 billion
 arch 
 arch 
 month en e  e t 
 arch 



 05    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review in brief 
Revenue for the year was up from 
£35.1 million in 2011 to £36.4 million
Underlying EBITDA profit of 
£0.4 million for the year, reversing 
a trend of deteriorating profitability
An extensive, well-planned and 
executed Change Management 
Programme has been positively 
affecting the performance of 
the Group 
During the period under review, 
we continued to strengthen our 
management team, with a number 
of notable appointments
 am pleased to report the results of your 
 ompany for the twelve months ended 
 arch .
As you will read later in this report, the past 
year, and the last si months in particular, have 
been transformational for Ashcourt Rowan. 
 am delighted to report considerable progress 
in the key areas we set out as targets and 
as positive drivers to providing a rmer 
 nancial footing.
Although  am pleased to report that revenue 
for the year was up from . million in 
 to . million for this nancial year, 
what is most encouraging is the positive 
underlying B T A pro t of . million 
for the year, which reversed a trend of 
deteriorating pro tability during the rst 
half of the nancial year. This performance 
contributed to a reduced operating loss, 
which, after one-off costs and depreciation 
and amortisation, was . million compared 
with . million in .
The roup s loss before ta for continuing 
operations for the year to  arch  
was . million  . million and 
the roup s loss after ta including 
discontinued operations was . million 
 . million . The basic loss per 
share also narrowed, falling from . p 
per share to a . p per share loss in 
the year under review.
These results, whilst clearly short of what 
we are seeking to achieve in the longer term, 
are very encouraging as they arise as a result 
of a great deal of change within the roup. 
 ed by your new hief ecutive, onathan 
 olin, and a high uality management team, 
many of whom are also new to the roup, 
an e tensive, well-planned and e ecuted 
 hange anagement rogramme has been 
positively affecting the performance of the 
 roup and will,  believe, deliver long-term 
bene ts to shareholders, as well as to clients.
As part of this programme, we have also 
been reviewing every aspect of our business 
including our unds nder anagement  
and Advice. ollowing a review of our unds 
 nder n uence , we restated our reported 
assets at our nterim Results in eptember 
as being . billion in total with . billion 
in discretionary and managed assets.  am 
pleased to note that as at  arch , 
 unds nder anagement and in uence 
have increased during the second half of the 
year, from that restated gure, to . billion 
 . billion before restatement 
of which . billion is in discretionary and 
managed assets.  am also pleased to report 
that the roup delivered net in ows in  
of  million despite the pressures of 
implementing a signi cant hange 
 anagement rogramme.
Much of the transformation work 
conducted throughout the Group has 
been to ensure that our clients are at the 
heart of the business. Developments 
with our people, processes and 
propositions are to ensure that we can 
provide the very best service and attract 
the best quality of client in order to drive 
growth. We were delighted when, in 
November of this reporting year, we were 
presented with an “Outstanding” award 
from Investor in Customers (IIC) 
following an assessment of our customer 
service and customer relationships. For 
more information regarding the IIC and 
their assessment methods, please visit 
www.investorincustomers.com. 
Putting clients at the heart of the business
 Understand
 customer needs
Meet customer needs
Delight customers
Create loyalty
Understand  
customer needs
 now your customer
 nderstand needs
 Anticipate needs
 ommunication
Meet customer needs
 roduct uality
 roduct customer match
 ustomer feedback
 asy to do business with
Delight customers
 Treat customers fairly
 Right rst time
 ustomer always right
 ost sales follow through
Create loyalty
 Repeat purchases
 illing to recommend
 uality relationships
 ustomer e perience 06    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Report of the Chairman continued
As  stated in the nterim Report in eptember, 
the roup undertook an institutional fundraising 
in ecember  and  am pleased to report 
that we conducted a successful placing of new 
ordinary shares raising . million from e isting 
and new shareholders.  would like to thank 
all shareholders for their continuing support 
and this placing demonstrates their backing 
for the strategic direction of the roup. t also 
ensures that we are well capitalised and able 
to invest in the move to a single integrated 
operating platform and to drive future growth.
 our , onathan olin, has been 
instrumental in setting the strategy and 
driving the change necessary to meet our 
ob ectives. As you will read in his report, 
we set out ve target levers for success 
including focusing on reducing costs, moving 
remuneration from a revenue share to a 
pro t-based remuneration, and achieving 
run-rate pro tability by the year end.  am 
delighted that a signi cant percentage of 
the targets have been achieved  believe all 
will be achieved by the calendar year end.
 e set out to reduce our annualised cost base 
by some . million and, as at  arch , 
we have achieved a reduction in costs of 
 . million with further initiatives that will 
deliver an additional . million. The remainder 
of the costs savings will be dependent on the 
implementation of a single operating platform 
and the integration of the asset management 
companies, avoy and ARA , into a single 
operating unit, a pro ect that is also well on 
track to successful completion.
 uring the period under review, we continued 
to strengthen our management team and, 
following the appointment of onathan olin, 
we welcomed, as roup hief inancial f cer , 
Al o Tagliabue. Al o knows our business 
e tremely well as he advised the Board, as an 
e ternal consultant, on the development of the 
strategy prior to oining us in anuary . 
 n addition, we have been oined by Richard 
 inclair B , as our new hief perating 
 f cer. Richard s distinguished career in the 
army and then latterly as fcom s delivery 
director responsible for the electromagnetic 
spectrum re uired for the ondon  
 lympic ames means he is well suited 
to create, manage and deliver our critical 
 hange anagement rogramme.
As hief ecutive of Ashcourt Rowan inancial 
 lanning, hris illiams has oined us and, 
has instigated a new Board structure for this 
business, to be announced shortly.  am also 
delighted that im Roberts has accepted our 
offer to chair the inancial lanning business. 
 im s e perience as a founder of kandia  
and as head of all investment functions at 
 kandia, coupled with his deep knowledge 
of the advice sector, will be of great bene t 
to this business.
 am e i hte that a i ni cant 
 ercenta e o the tar et have 
 een achieve  e ieve a i 
 e achieve  the ca en ar 
 ear en
 e set out ve target levers for success including focusing 
on reducing costs, moving remuneration from a revenue 
share to a pro t-based remuneration, and achieving run-rate 
pro tability by the year end. 07    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
 hristopher effreys has been appointed 
 hief ecutive of the enlarged Ashcourt 
Rowan Asset anagement business and, 
again, we are putting in place a new Board 
to be announced shortly.  am e ually 
delighted that ugh ard, a newly appointed 
 on- ecutive irector of the roup, has 
accepted our offer to chair the business. 
 ugh s e perience as a former  of 
 nvesco , and the architect of the merger 
between nvesco and erpetual, will be a 
signi cant bene t to the business.
 would also like to welcome avid sfandi 
who has been appointed anaging irector 
of Asset anagement. e brings a wealth 
of e perience from eutsche Bank and 
 oldman achs in rede ning our investment 
proposition. e will be working closely with 
T oni eadows, who has oined the roup 
as hief nvestment f cer . T oni s 
e perience at lose Asset anagement and 
 lose ealth is already paying dividends 
as we roll out our new research product and 
investment proposition across the roup. 
These appointments, in key positions, 
demonstrate our commitment to transforming 
your ompany and the team brings a mi of 
energy, innovation, passion and e ceptional 
skills which will allow us to carry out our 
strategy and to provide a strong and 
growing return to our shareholders.
 e have much to do, but  believe we have 
the management team and nancial structure 
to achieve it. e must also, in the process 
of transforming our business and our culture, 
never forget that we are, as a business, 
de ned by our clients. At the root of all the 
changes, is, fundamentally, the desire to 
provide a better uality of service and to 
attract the best uality of client. The market 
for wealth management is changing and, 
for the client,  believe it is changing for the 
better. The advent of R R and the continuing 
economic uncertainty will inevitably mean 
that only the best wealth managers will 
prosper and  am convinced that Ashcourt 
Rowan will be a signi cant winner and 
consolidator in this e citing sector.
 nce again, however,  would like to 
recognise the levels of commitment, time 
and effort by many people across our 
 roup. t has not been an easy year and 
whenever a company does go through a 
cultural change, there are inevitably ad ustments 
to be made.  therefore thank all our staff for 
their efforts and loyalty and their continuing 
focus on ensuring we grow and prosper. 
 inally,  would like to thank all our new clients 
for asking us to help guide them and for all 
our longer-standing clients for continuing to 
believe in the uality of our advice and services.
Kenneth West
Chairman  
 u 
Revenue
£36.4 million 
+4%
 e mu t never or et that a a 
 u ine e are e ne  our 
c ient t the root o a the chan e 
i un amenta the e ire to rovi e 
a etter ua it o ervice an to 
attract the e t ua it o c ient
