 08    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Report of the Chief Executive Officer
Building a modern, 
leading, integrated wealth 
management business.
 n transforming our business, we are moving with 
pace, determination and passion.
Jonathan Polin, rou Chie Executive
 n er in E n £0.45 million
 arch 
6 mths ended 
 e t 
 arch 
 6


 oss e ore tax m £(2.32) million
 arch 
6 mths ended 
 e t 
 arch 


 09    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Review in brief 
Achieving a positive underlying 
EBITDA figure of £0.45 million 
for the year provides confidence 
that an increased positive underlying 
EBITDA is achievable in the financial 
year ending 31 March 2013
For a lasting positive impact, we are 
focusing on systems and processes 
but also ensuring a transition in 
our culture
The current environment represents 
a huge opportunity for our Group to 
acquire businesses and over the course 
of the next twelve months we will 
be reviewing options and seeking 
opportunities to make acquisitions 
Focus has been on developing and 
introducing a suitable RDR proposition
Our strategy: A planned approach
 am delighted to be writing this, my rst 
annual hief ecutive s Report for Ashcourt 
Rowan plc. hen  wrote my nterim Report 
in eptember   had been in the post 
for nine weeks. Then,  made a number of 
observations about what was needed to 
transform our business, to make it t for 
advising our clients effectively, t to face 
the changing business and regulatory 
environment and t to provide growing 
returns to shareholders.  am comfortable 
with my initial prognosis but  have also 
found other areas where change is needed. 
 n transforming our business, we have moved 
with pace, determination and passion to create 
a leading integrated wealth management 
business. very aspect of our business has 
either undergone change or is currently 
being changed. or a lasting positive impact, 
we are focusing on systems and processes 
but also ensuring a transition in our culture. 
 am delighted with our achievements, the 
 uality of decisions we have taken, and the 
team we have assembled to drive through 
what is effectively a re-birth of your ompany. 
 believe absolutely in the value of integrating 
investment management and nancial planning 
skills to offer our clients a straightforward but 
comprehensive wealth management solution. 
T o be effective, however , client solutions must 
be built around a central core of strong 
governance and compliance structures 
and supported by an institutionally robust 
methodology and systems. 
 remain focused on the continuing 
transformation of the business and it is 
my aim, therefore, to ensure that your 
 ompany is well-placed, well-resourced and 
has the intellectual capital to become one of 
the leading integrated wealth management 
businesses in the country. 
Achievements and progress 
 am pleased with our achievements driven 
by our hange anagement rogramme 
 . n eptember   outlined ve 
short-term levers for success that we would 
complete by ecember . 
After eight months,  am happy to report the 
following progress against each target lever 
1. Reduce cost base by £5.2 million
 n an annualised basis, we have achieved 
 . million of cost savings with a further 
 . million to feed through in the rst half 
of our  nancial year from initiatives 
being completed. e are ahead of schedule 
in our cost savings and moving to an 
outsourced asset management platform 
in ecember will ensure we will have 
achieved our target.
 eliver cost savings
 lear and sustainable incentive model
 lear pricing model
 ntegrate ARA and avoy
  reate coherent segmented offering with strong 
central research capability
  onversion of e isting  to most suitable platform 
to clients  advisory or discretionary
 ew client ac uisition
  ull ooperative ndependent inancial Advisers A 
client base coverage conversion
 roposition for recruitment of new inancial lanners 
 ntermediary proposition
  ndependent inancial Adviser 
 inancial lanners consolidation
 T eam lift-outs and book ac uisitions
 ergers
Well advanced on Stage 1 activities and progressing growth opportunities 
Integrate Ashcourt Rowan (AR) 
business model and platform 
and maximise value of existing  
book/client base
Focus on organic growth through 
Ashcourt Rowan Financial Planning 
(ARFP) and intermediary channels
Seek non-organic growth and further 
consolidation opportunities proactively
Stage 1
Stage 2 10    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Report of the Chief Executive Officer continued
Achievements and progress 
continued 
2.  Ensure our revenue generators’ 
remuneration moves from a revenue 
share to profit-based remuneration
 e converted our revenue generating 
employees to pro t-based remuneration 
across our Asset anagement and inancial 
 lanning businesses. 
This has been central to establishing pro tability 
and  would like to thank our staff for their 
understanding and acceptance of this 
re uirement and  am indebted to them 
for their loyalty and pragmatism. 
3.  Achieve run-rate profitability  
by 30 March 2012 
The ompany achieved month-on-month 
pro tability in the last uarter of the nancial 
year. Achieving a positive underlying B T A 
 gure of . million for the year under review 
provides con dence that an increased positive 
underlying B T A is achievable in the nancial 
year ending arch . Although for the year 
 there will be signi cant one-off 
costs from our investment in the operating 
platform, as previously outlined, this will 
deliver sustainable long-term pro tability for 
your ompany.  am pleased with the speed 
of this turnaround resulting from our rapid 
and effective actions but stringent cost 
controls will continue to be at the top of 
my management team s agenda. 
 reating the optimum si e of our operation 
resulted in staff redundancies with staff 
numbers reducing from  in eptember to 
 in une . This is always a dif cult and 
painful e ercise, but has been an imperative.
4.  Integration of our FUI on to a wider 
platform and re-pricing our existing 
book of business by March 2014
 ur Advisory perating latform, provided 
by ofunds, is due to go live at the end of 
August , giving our clients, who form 
part of our , choices in how we look after 
them. These cover our full advice service, 
 uiding ite, that allows clients to dip in and 
out of advice as they see as appropriate for 
their needs, and self-directed e ecution-only 
investment offerings. n addition, we have 
launched our R R pricing model and will 
be operating this model for all new business 
from  eptember . e will migrate our 
e isting business to the new pricing model 
over the ne t twelve months. This goes 
further than current R R re uirements but 
the transparency and clarity it demonstrates 
to clients will have its own reward. 
5. Operating platform
Richard will detail in his report our progress 
on the strategic imperative of outsourcing 
our asset management operating platform 
to one specialist provider. This will allow the 
business to concentrate on its core area 
of manufacturing and ensure that our fund 
managers have the modern portfolio tools 
and systems they re uire. n addition it will 
deliver scalability to meet our growth plans 
and the leverage to ensure when ac uisitions 
are made signi cant synergies can be created 
to deliver enhanced shareholder returns. 
Strategy
 ur strategy is simple we will provide a 
straightforward and comprehensive solution 
for all our clients wealth-related re uirements. 
 entral to our proposition is the combination 
of robust institutional uality research and 
investment skills and capabilities, demonstrably 
enhanced by the intellectual capital of the 
 roup. e provide solutions across the high 
net worth, mass af uent and direct-to-consumer 
sectors, but our core market will remain the 
mass af uent sector , the fastest growing sector . 
 e will fully integrate our asset management 
business, merging avoy and Ashcourt Rowan 
Asset anagement ARA under the ARA 
brand. e have been operating these two 
businesses as one since April  and will 
complete the transfer of clients and their assets 
by  ctober . ur  asset managers 
and nancial planners will use the same central 
advice platforms ensuring that the solutions 
and customer e periences are of the same 
high standards regardless of who is looking 
after them. 
By the end of August  we will have our 
advisory operating platform in place that will 
allow our clients the choice of service levels. 
 lients will be able to access our research, 
best advice lists and take advantage of our 
scale pricing. 
 e will introduce a central marketing and 
client ac uisition programme across the roup 
later in the year. n addition, we will review our 
brand and, e amining the manner in which 
our clients wish to interact with the ompany, 
seek improvements and enhancements. 
 have been heartened by the number and 
 uality of people who want to oin us which 
 believe is due to the growing perception of 
Ashcourt Rowan as a robust, well-managed, 
progressive business. here it ts our 
strategy we will add teams across our 
geographic network or indeed open of ces 
in strategic locations where the roup has 
no presence. 
The current environment represents a huge 
opportunity for our roup to ac uire businesses 
and over the course of the ne t twelve months 
we will be reviewing options and seeking 
opportunities to make ac uisitions.
 e provide solutions across the high net worth, mass af uent 
and direct-to-consumer sectors, but our core market will 
remain the mass af uent sector, the fastest growing sector. 11    Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
Key market opportunities
 believe wealth management to be the most 
e citing and interesting sub-sector within 
 nancial services. Regulatory demands can 
only be met by those with strong balance 
sheets and a real desire to change outmoded, 
unacceptable working practices. This 
undoubtedly will lead to continuing 
consolidation in the market. 
 nly by underpinning personal service with 
institutional levels of infrastructure and support 
will we ensure that clients are getting the 
most suitable advice backed up by strong 
governance and robust intellectual capital. 
 cale leads to more effective pricing and the 
ability to achieve signi cant cost reductions 
from providers which can be passed on to 
the client. or too long this sector has been 
full of sub-scale, life-style businesses but 
the market is changing.
 ey to securing a growing share of this market 
is to have multiple entry points for clients and 
to give different client types alternative ways 
of engaging.  do not believe that you can 
offer good holistic planning advice without 
also having the means to create robust 
investment solutions.  see the most successful 
scale players in this sector developing both 
disciplines to satisfy client needs. 
The opportunity for a business with the right 
model to create signi cant shareholder value 
is considerable and we are in one of the few 
areas in this sector, and across the wider 
economy, where there are real opportunities 
for signi cant double digit returns.
Asset management business update
 ur asset management business had a 
successful year in , consolidating 
on  overall revenues but with a 
greater proportion of management fees 
and recurring revenues. uring the year 
we had net in ows of  million, with 
stronger performance during the second 
half of the year with  increasing by 
 million from . billion at the end 
of eptember to . billion at the end 
of arch. Total gross ows during the 
year stood at  million.
At the end of this reporting period we started 
managing the avoy and ARA operations 
as a single business under the ARA banner. 
 nce the process of transferring clients and 
their assets to ARA is complete, avoy will 
cease to be actively operated and will be 
de-regulated.
 am delighted that hristopher effreys 
has accepted my offer to become the hief 
 ecutive of the enlarged ARA business. 
 e have put in place a new Board and 
 am e ually delighted that ugh ard, a 
 on- ecutive irector of the roup, has 
accepted my offer to chair the business. 
 n addition, in ebruary Toni eadows 
 oined as hief nvestment f cer  
for the roup. avid sfandi, whom  am 
pleased to welcome, will be hristopher 
 effreys deputy and is working closely 
with T oni on our investment proposition. 
 e are actively growing our asset management 
business and are in talks with a number of 
managers to oin us. The new vibrant, product 
offering we have to offer is gaining attention 
across the industry.
As outlined above we are currently in the 
process of selecting a third party retail 
operating platform for our asset management 
business, delivering modern tools for our 
managers, greater scalability and reliability 
of our investment management administration. 
 e aim to start our transition to the new 
platform in the autumn and to complete the 
process by the end of this nancial year.
 ur asset management business has a new 
purpose and direction and is challenging 
our competitors successfully both in our 
ac uisition of direct clients but also by being 
the outsourced investment solution of choice 
for a number of As.
Financial planning business
 ur nancial planning business has 
undergone fundamental change over the 
second half of the period. verall, it has 
been a successful year for this division and 
 am pleased by the improvements made to 
our client proposition and our readiness for 
R R. The roup will have over  of our 
advisers through the level  uali cation 
threshold by the end of August. e will 
be rolling out our R R proposition to clients 
and operating within an R R environment 
form  eptember this year. Revenues are 
up against  from . million to 
 . million, a growth of  year-on-year.
The focus has been on developing and 
introducing a suitable R R proposition, 
developing our platform, re-training our 
advisers and developing robust and 
sustainable processes to ensure suitability 
of our advice.
As part of my review of the roup governance 
structure,  am delighted that hris illiams 
has accepted my offer to become hief 
 ecutive of Ashcourt Rowan inancial 
 lanning, and we have instigated a new 
Board structure for this business.  am also 
delighted that im Roberts has accepted 
my offer to chair the business. 
The ne t few years will be challenging times 
for the advice sector in the  following the 
implementation of R R.  believe that we 
are e tremely well-placed to navigate these 
challenges. e have completed the intellectual 
challenge of developing a robust strategy, 
we have the uality of advisers able to adapt 
and have trained and prepared well. ur 
shareholders can be reassured that we are 
in the best possible position to succeed.
Jonathan Polin 
 rou Chie Executive 
6 u 
