 Reshaping your company
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Building the foundations
Ashcourt Rowan is an AIM-listed wealth management 
business that specialises in financial planning and investment 
management for individuals and organisations. With a team 
of over 100 professionally qualified financial advisers and 
investment managers working from 18 offices, the Group 
is one of the biggest and best resourced wealth management 
businesses in the UK.
But the last twelve months has been a time of transformation for the business. 
 n er the lea ershi of  onathan olin the rou has a e onsi erable 
stren th to its senior mana ement team. t has also refo use an re e ne 
its long-term structure and strategy to become a modern, fully integrated 
wealth management business with market leading investment management 
and nancial lanning ca abilities.
The Board believes Ashcourt Rowan is now stronger, more secure and 
better resourced than ever before with the right people and proposition 
in place to take advantage and prosper from the rapidly changing 
business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
Visit us online
www.ashcourtrowan.com Overview Business review Governance Financial statements
 trengthened Board and leadership team
 ull year underlying B T A . million and reverses the rst half loss
 ositive revenue growth year-on-year, up  to . million
 T otal assets under management and in uence . billion on a restated basis
 iscretionary assets under management . billion with positive net ows
 n track cost savings with run rate already reduced by . million per annum
 olid nancial position  no material debt and net tangible assets of . million 
of which . million cash
 igration from revenue to pro t-share-based remuneration completed
Contents
Overview
Company profile  IFC
Financial highlights  01
Our business  02
Report of the Chairman 04
 
Business review
Report of the Chief Executive Officer  08
Financial review 12
Operational review 16
Performance monitoring and review of key risks 20
Governance
Board of Directors 22
Directors’ report 24
Corporate governance  27
Remuneration Committee report  30
Statement of Directors’ responsibilities  32
 
Financial statements
Independent auditors’ report  33
Consolidated income statement  34
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income  35
Consolidated statement of financial position  36
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  37
Consolidated statement of cash flows  38
Notes to the financial statements  39
Company statement of financial position  63
Company statement of changes in equity  64
Company statement of cash flows  65
Notice of Annual General Meeting  70
Officers and professional advisers 73
Highlights – a year of significant change and considerable progress
Financial statistics – continuing operations
31 March
 2012
 i months 
ended 
 eptember 

 arch 

 unds under management and in uence restated from eptember £4.08bn . bn . bn
Revenue £36.40m . m . m
 nderlying B T A ro t before interest, ta , depreciation, amortisation,  
impairments and e ceptional share-based payment costs
†
£0.45m . m . m
 oss before interest, ta , depreciation, amortisation and impairments £(0.82)m . m . m
 oss before ta £(2.32)m . m . m
 continuing operations, post-consolidation (10.4)p . p . p
  ro t before interest, ta , depreciation, amortisation, impairments, share-based payments and e ceptional costs 
  unds nder n uence  restated at eptember  following a detailed review resulting in reducing total  by around  million
 †  ceptional costs include redundancy . million , hange anagement rogramme and other restructuring costs of a non-recurring  
nature . million net of release of accrued provisions and  e ception interim charges . million 
Turn to page 13
for a full review of our KPIs 
