 5 Ashcourt Rowan plc	 Annual report and accounts 2013
Overview 
The shape of our business
People
Wealth management is a people business. While we 
continue to invest in systems and processes, and to make use 
of the latest technologies – in online aggregation for example 
– clients simply want to work with an individual they trust 
will give them expert, unbiased advice based on a thorough 
understanding of their needs, backed by high-quality 
research and strong administrative capabilities. Hiring and 
motivating the best people is key to our future. 
 
Processes and platforms
From ICT – our IT and communication infrastructure – to 
the migration of client assets onto TD Wealth’s platform, we 
have invested in turning Ashcourt Rowan into an efficient, 
modern wealth manager with the ability to ensure that we 
can access the right investment options for our clients cost-
effectively, manage their portfolios actively, and provide our 
people with the right tools and resources.
 
Propositions
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR) brought a revolution 
to the financial services industry that is about more than 
removing commission bias, but also the way we offer advice 
to our clients. We firmly believe that we have built the right 
capabilities for this new world and that we will attract people 
to us as a result. We have central investment and financial 
planning processes that the firm believes in and is rightly 
proud of. The roles of the central research and paraplanning 
teams are important in helping our financial planners and 
investment managers deliver a great service to our clients.
Ashcourt Rowan was nominated for two Money Marketing 
awards in March 2013, winning one and coming third in the 
important Large IFA of the Year category. The firm’s win 
was for Ashcourt Rowan paraplanner Amanda Curd who 
was shortlisted for, and won, the “Best Paraplanner” award. 
In June 2013 we were named as one of Private Client 
Practitioner’s Top 25 Financial Planning Companies.
  6 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
¡is year’s ”nancial outturn, as reported, of an underlying 
EBITDA pro”tability of £2.8 million is above both our and 
the market’s expectations and, combined with the delivery  
of a 14% underlying operating margin in the second half of 
the year, endorses the progress the Company has made  
in a relatively short period of time. In my report last year,  
I outlined the key drivers of our Change Management 
Programme and I am pleased to report our progress against 
those metrics:  
Reduce cost base by £5.2 million
On an annualised basis we have reduced our cost base by over 
£7 million, compared to a target of £5.2 million, and continue 
to keep a tight control on all costs. ¡is ”nancial year will 
allow a small amount of further cost reductions as we reap  
the rewards of completing our transition to an outsourced 
operating platform for our investment management business. 
I am determined to advance the business to an operating 
pro”t margin of 25% or more over the medium term.
I am delighted to deliver this, my  
second annual report, against the 
backdrop of significant progress in your 
Company. The 20 months since my 
arrival have been focused on fixing the 
business from a financial, operations, 
integration, regulatory and proposition 
point of view. I am able to tell all our 
stakeholders that the re-organisation 
phase is complete and the Company  
is ready for growth.
 
Group chief executive’s report
Jonathan Polin Group Chief Executive
Half year
14
2
3
-2
Underlying EBITBA margin (%)
Note: H2 results including year end adjustments.
  Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 
Total headcount
• Revenue generators
• Support and others 
Note: Includes temporary project resources and consultants (FTEs respectively).
  Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 
79
108
103
114
201
233
219
259
373
341
322
280 Financial statements 
Highlights of the year
7 Ashcourt Rowan plc	 Annual report and accounts 2013
Business review
Group chief executive’s report
People 
 “  There is a lot of behind the scenes work in wealth 
management that clients don’t see but which is 
important in ensuring we deliver well-researched 
solutions and effective administration of our clients’ 
investments and financial affairs.”
Chay Fox Operations Director, Ashcourt Rowan Financial Planning 8 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Both the disposal of Ashcourt Rowan Administration 
Limited and the integration of Savoy have resulted in us 
being able to simplify our structure by reducing our regulated 
entities from four to two. ¡is has created a small reduction in 
our capital adequacy requirements. We are now focused on 
our core businesses and specialisms, and have created the 
right structure for success. 
We have continued to re-size the business to compete,  
but our eœciency programme has ensured that headcount  
has been kept under tight control. Today the Group has  
257 permanent full time employees against 373 in September 
2011. ¡is number includes the recruitment of some 
signi”cant hires who are already making a very positive 
impact across the Group. In December, Emily Morris joined 
as our group head of marketing, which will be a pivotal role  
as we aim to achieve organic growth across both our 
investment management and ”nancial planning businesses.  
In January, David Palmer joined us as business director of 
Ashcourt Rowan Asset Management, a key role for the 
Group. Steven Midgley joined us in June to hold the same 
role for the ”nancial planning business. We have also recently 
recruited Niral Parekh to head up group risk and Kevin 
Norman as head of investment management middle oœce.
In August, Gaius Jones arrives to assume the position of  
chief executive of Ashcourt Rowan Financial Planning from 
Towry where he was a main board director. In October, 
Harry Burnham will join us from Brewin Dolphin where  
he was an investment director. He will join the Board of 
Ashcourt Rowan Asset Management and help steer the 
business to growth in the high net worth market place.  
I am delighted we have been able to persuade individuals  
of their standing in the industry to join us.
¡ese hires are testament not only to the huge improvements 
we have achieved in your Company but also the perception 
and high regard the Group is now held in amongst our peer 
group. ¡ese key hires have a halo e¦ect upon the business 
and, as a result, there are a number of high-quality investment 
managers and ”nancial planners who wish to join the Group 
over this ”nancial year.
Key market opportunities
¡is industry is in a state of 	ux and the advent of RDR will 
shake out the winners and losers. I have believed for some 
time that wealth management will be the most exciting 
sub-sector of ”nancial services over the next three years and 
there will be huge opportunities to drive change and e¦ect 
consolidation in the industry. By meeting and exceeding the 
demands of regulation, not only will we deliver a sustainable 
and growing business, we will also assist in developing a 
proper professional services industry in the delivery of 
high-quality ”nancial planning and investment management.
Achieve increased run rate profitability 
on continuing operations
I am delighted that we have delivered a vast improvement  
in the underlying pro”tability outturn this year of £2.8 million 
compared to last year’s result of £0.45 million or £0.26 million 
on a continuing like-for-like basis. We have also made 
signi”cant investment into our Company over the last  
12 months, which has been funded by cash 	ows, in the 
main, demonstrating the sustainability of our ”nancial 
position. Al”o Tagliabue, chief ”nancial oœcer, has worked 
tirelessly to power the ”nancial re-engineering of your 
business, which could not have been achieved without his 
drive and expertise.
Operating platform
A strategic imperative for me on joining was to modernise  
our asset management operating platform and I am delighted 
to report that the transition is now substantially complete. 
¡is has been a huge task for the Group in transitioning and 
integrating three operating platforms across to TD Wealth’s 
system and I would like to thank Richard Sinclair, chief 
operating oœcer, under whose stewardship and focused 
leadership this project has been delivered. He has been 
supported by a fantastic project team and all members of  
the investment management business have worked hard to 
ensure its success, delivered on budget and on time.
Integration of funds under influence 
(FUI) on to our wider advisory platform
¡e integration of FUI on to our ”nancial planning  
advisory platform has been slower than I would have liked  
for a number of reasons. First, the ability of all our product 
providers to deliver the clean RDR-ready share classes was 
beset with technical issues, delaying our e¦orts. Secondly,  
the advised process for our clients under the new replacement 
business rules was also slower than I had anticipated. 
However, the project is now well underway and, although  
it will take a number of years to complete, the outcome will 
be worth the additional e¦ort as we will enable our clients  
to see all of their assets in one place.
Over the period we have also focused the business on  
its core competencies. We have merged the Savoy and 
Ashcourt Rowan Asset Management businesses to form  
one vibrant and streamlined asset management business.  
We took the decision to sell Ashcourt Rowan  
Administration Limited’s self-invested and small  
self-administered pension scheme business at the end  
of the ”nancial year. ¡is subscale business needed  
investment to deal with the modern market place and  
a total consideration of up to £1.3 million including  
deferred was an attractive price for the business. 
Group chief executive’s report continued 9 Ashcourt Rowan plc	 Annual report and accounts 2013
Process
 “ Our investment offering is powered by a central 
investment process which has a multi asset class 
approach and is risk-graded based on a client’s 
attitude to risk and time horizon. Importantly it is 
then delivered locally by our investment teams who 
understand their clients’ needs best.”
Toni Meadows Chief Investment Officer, Ashcourt Rowan Asset Management
Business review
Group chief executive’s report Investment management business update
During this reporting period we have made signi”cant 
progress in our investment management business. I am 
pleased with the progress the team has made in reorganising 
our central investment proposition. ¡ey have developed a 
robust research process and investment models, and provided 
the intellectual rigour required to address and deliver better 
outcomes for our clients. ¡is new research process has 
contributed to the excellent returns seen in our managed 
portfolio service.
We are, through the legacy issues we inherited in the old 
Savoy business and in Ashcourt Rowan Asset Management, 
close to completing the re-papering of 10,000 clients and 
re-assessing their risk requirements and investment objectives. 
¡is has been a huge, but necessary, project and will ensure 
that all our clients are well serviced by the Group.
We have also worked hard on re-de”ning our discretionary 
portfolio management services for IFAs. ¡is is a signi”cantly 
growing market and I am keen that we increase our  
market share. 
As with all businesses, there are still areas we need to improve 
over the coming months, but these enhancements in service 
and proposition are business as usual tasks that will enrich our 
proposition and augment our service o¦ering. 
Our investment management is a key driver of growth for 
your Company. I believe we have a sound and marketable 
proposition, and the key metrics for the year ahead will be 
delivering asset growth and revenue. 
Key market opportunities continued 
For too long this industry has been dominated by subscale 
cottage industry and lifestyle businesses, and now their time 
has run out. Consolidation opportunities are currently high 
and I believe will only accelerate over the next 36 months.  
It has been imperative for me to ensure that your Company 
has the systems, operating platform, regulatory robustness 
and culture to allow it to be capable of acquiring and driving 
change and scale. 
In addition to pursuing organic growth opportunities, the 
Company is now in a position to drive additional growth 
through acquisition. However, we will be focused in the 
targets we approach and robust in ensuring we create 
shareholder value. We are creating a ”nancial services 
company with a broad waterfront that delivers multiple entry 
points for clients whilst allowing di¦erent client types 
alternative ways of engaging with us. Our acquisition policy 
will not just be about gathering assets but a directed strategy 
based on delivering these aims and thus shareholder value. 
Group chief executive’s report continued
10 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Strategy overview: a planned approach
Stage 1 Integrate AR business model and
 platform to support growth 
 
 
 
 Optimise service proposition to 
 existing clients 
 
 
 
 
 
Stage 2 Focus on organic growth through 
 ARFP and intermediary channels 
 
 
 Seek non-organic growth  
 and consolidation opportunities
• Deliver cost savings
• Clear and sustainable  
incentive model
• Clear pricing model
• Integrate ARAM and Savoy on 
single operating platform
• Create coherent segmented 
offering with strong central 
research capability
• Conversion of existing FUI to  
most suitable platform to clients – 
Advisory or Discretionary
• RDR adviser charging on  
legacy book
• New client acquisition
• Proposition for/recruitment of new 
Financial Planners 
• Intermediary proposition
• Corporate proposition expansion
• Independent Financial Advisor/
Financial Planner consolidation
• Team lift-outs and book acquisitions
• Mergers and acquisitions
  • Completed
  • Key priorities Business review
Group chief executive’s report
11 Ashcourt Rowan plc	 Annual report and accounts 2013
Proposition
 “ We aim to make sure that individuals understand  
the advice they are being given, the risks as well as 
the potential rewards, so that they can make better 
sense of their wealth and have confidence in the 
decisions they make.”
Emily Morris Group Head of Marketing, Ashcourt Rowan plc 12 Ashcourt Rowan plc Annual report and accounts 2013
We will achieve this via the following:
1 ¡e delivery of our new discretionary investment 
management solutions for external IFAs.
2 Continuing to o¦er our existing ”nancial planning 
clients access to our new advisory platform, allowing 
them to see all their assets in one place with  
24/7 valuations.
3 Developing our corporate pensions business further and 
growing our share in a vibrant market.
4 Developing our joint venture businesses and delivering 
our proposition to more of their clients. 
5 Creating new relationships with professional introducers, 
controlled and managed centrally.
6 Providing a greater range of services to our clients 
through our relationships with complementary 
businesses that give us a greater product suite but, more 
importantly, add greater value for our clients.
7 Ensuring all of our ”nancial planning clients are 
transferred to our new adviser charging model as trail 
commission is removed from the business.
8 Recruitment of new investment managers and ”nancial 
planners that meet our exacting standards. 
9 Building on acquisitions, either small businesses or teams, 
in both asset management and ”nancial planning, that can 
be fully integrated into our model and operating platform.
10 Looking at appropriate larger M&A activity that can  
act as an accelerator of growth and deliver competencies 
that the Group is looking to build on – for example, 
corporate pensions.
In summary, this has been a hugely challenging year for your 
Company, yet it is one that has exceeded expectations and 
delivered on all its promises to shareholders. ¡is ”nancial 
year is about proving to our shareholders that your Company 
can also be successful in growing revenues.
I have been fortunate to lead a group of committed and 
determined individuals – a team that is dedicated to winning 
and delivering value. I would like to thank all of our sta¦ for 
their hard work, fortitude and belief, without which I would 
have been unable to deliver the achievements we have made.
I am con”dent in our ability to meet the challenge of growth 
and believe passionately in our ability to take advantage of  
the opportunities that our sector presents. I look with 
excitement to the year ahead and I am committed to leading 
the Company to deliver value to our shareholders through 
focused execution of our vision.
 
Jonathan Polin 
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
1 July 2013
Financial planning update
Our ”nancial planning business is the principal  
mechanism for attracting new clients into the Group. I 
believe passionately in the need for holistic ”nancial advice 
and see the growth in our core market of the mass a®uent  
as the key opportunity.
¡e regulatory changes of the Retail Distribution Review 
have enabled us to upscale our talent pool and deliver 
appropriate transparent charging and a more detailed 
proposition to our clients. I fundamentally believe that  
RDR has been good for our clients and for the industry.  
We have developed a compelling proposition that gives 
clients the choice of our full advice service and options to  
do some less complex tasks, such as choosing an ISA 
themselves, via our advisory platform. I believe that giving 
clients choice and 	exibility of o¦ering will be fundamental  
to developing trust, and attracting clients from all segments  
of the advice spectrum.
I was delighted that the Group was chosen from a wide  
range of our peers to be awarded the exclusive rights to advise 
the current and potential clients of Care UK. Care UK is one 
of the UK’s largest providers of long-term care. In addition 
we have formed an important and valuable relationship with 
PMI, a large corporate bene”ts business, to advise, where 
required, their clients on corporate pensions. We are 
investigating with PMI further areas where we can extend  
our relationship.
Focus for 2013/14
Over this ”nancial year I want to see further growth in our 
corporate pensions business. I believe corporate pensions and 
workplace savings will be a key driver of business both for our 
”nancial planning business and our investment management 
solutions.
As part of our mission to clean up the business, we reviewed 
revenue generators that were unable to meet the requirements 
of our model, cultural or otherwise. ¡is led, as reported in 
our interim results, to the removal of assets, clients and the 
revenue allocated to them. Having spent the majority of the 
year developing the platform, our key focus for 2013/14 is on 
building the revenue line.
Group chief executive’s report continued
