 Business review Governance Financial statements
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 11
Chairman’s statement
“ The increasing inflow of new 
assets and the continuing levels 
of good investment performance 
are impressive testaments to the 
team’s success.”
I am very pleased to be able to report upon another year of real 
progress at Ashmore. 
In financial terms, we have reached new highs, in terms of AuM 
levels and profits. This has been achieved primarily through organic 
growth and also by acquisition, with AuM reaching a closing level of 
US$65.8 billion, an increase of 86% for the year. This has provided 
the foundation for the management fee income growth which, 
when combined with another good year for performance fees,  
has produced record income and profit levels.
Operationally I am extremely pleased to have seen the completion, 
during the period, of the acquisition of Emerging Markets 
Management LLC, a business similar to Ashmore’s, focused entirely 
on the emerging markets. The combination of their equities 
investment history with ours, principally in debt, has created the 
largest independent dedicated emerging markets multi-asset class 
investment manager. On behalf of the whole Board I should like to 
extend a warm welcome to the team at AshmoreEMM and we look 
forward to working with them and seeing the results from our new 
equities business.
As the Company’s business grows and prospers, the Board continues 
to give significant priority to ensuring that the highest standards of 
corporate governance and codes of best practice are followed 
throughout its worldwide operations.
Recognising the financial performance achieved in the year, taken 
together with the Board’s confidence in the prospects for future 
growth, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 
10.34 pence per share for the year ended 30 June 2011 which, 
subject to shareholder approval, will be paid on 2 December 2011  
to shareholders on the register on 4 November 2011. This makes a 
total dividend for the year of 14.5 pence per share (FY2009/10: 13.0p).
Once again I would like to thank the whole Ashmore team for their 
tremendous efforts in achieving another successful year for the 
Company including the promotion into the FTSE-100 index effective 
next week. The increasing inflow of new assets and the continuing 
levels of good investment performance are impressive testaments to 
the team’s success and will allow the Company to build upon its 
existing strong and solid business. It is clear that the team’s complete 
focus on understanding and interpreting the events of the emerging 
markets is core to its success and this focus will continue with  
a clarity and certainty.
Global events in recent months and the continuing market volatility 
highlight the ongoing repositioning of emerging and developed 
world markets. I am confident that the Group, with its experience 
gained over many economic and market cycles, will continue to 
manage their investment strategies successfully as world events 
unfold. I also remain confident that the opportunity for the 
emerging markets is a significant one and that Ashmore is well 
positioned to capture it. 
Michael Benson
Chairman
