 06
Ashmore Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2010
I am pleased to be able to report that in the 
year ended 30 June 2010 Ashmore Group plc 
performed well in respect of its key targets 
of overall investment performance of assets 
managed, growth of assets under management 
and the financial performance of the company. 
The Group also made good progress in its plans 
to deepen and broaden its distribution capability, 
and in advancing its local asset management 
ventures in key emerging markets. Meanwhile, 
the investment world is steadily getting our 
messages that emerging markets must become 
a core part of an investment portfolio in the 
future and that few have enough of their 
investable assets committed to those regions.
The year has been marked by 
further enhancement of the 
relative positioning of emerging 
markets over developed markets
Chief Executive  
Officer’s statement
Assets under management and 
financial performance
AuM development
The Group’s AuM increased by 42% 
from an opening level of US$24.9 billion 
to reach US$35.3 billion at the year 
end. This was achieved through net 
subscriptions of US$7.6 billion and 
positive investment performance of 
US$2.8 billion. Gross subscriptions were 
significantly higher than the prior year at 
US$11.3 billion (FY2008/09: US$3.8 billion) 
with the majority of the inflows going 
to the Group’s most liquid investment 
themes of external debt and local currency, 
much as predicted at the time of last 
year’s annual report and in line with our 
previous experience at this stage of the 
cycle after crisis. The principal sources of 
funds were larger segregated account 
mandates, including significant new funds 
from governments/reserve managers and 
sovereign wealth funds from the emerging 
markets themselves. In line with the overall 
secular shift that we have been predicting, 
such accounts are no longer moving simply 
into dollar-denominated instruments, but 
into local currency assets in emerging 
markets, and which now include currency 
overlay and hedging products in addition 
to active mandates in both currencies and 
bonds. Levels of gross redemptions were 
reduced sharply from the prior period at 
US$3.7 billion (FY2008/09: US$11.3 billion). 
Financial performance
The Group achieved good growth in 
revenue in the year, with a 41% increase in 
net revenue to £286.2 million (FY2008/09: 
£203.5 million). Management fee income 
in sterling terms increased by 3% to 
£192.1 million (FY2008/09: £186.8 million) 
as a result of increased average AuM and 
improved foreign exchange conversion 
rates, offset by reduced average fee 
margins. This reduction in margins is as 
a result of the mix of subscriptions as 
the business and its asset classes grow 
and evolve, with larger segregated client 
inflows and the most liquid investment 
themes attracting lower pricing. 
Performance fee income grew strongly 
by 58% to £82.9 million (FY2008/09: 
£52.5 million), as a result of strong 
investment performance from funds 
across investment themes, principally 
this year from annual fees of funds with 
31 December and 30 April year end dates. 
This again demonstrates the benefits of 
our performance fee model where annual 
fees are staggered across the financial 
year. Profit before tax increased 36% 
For KPIs
please see page 14 > Overview  
01 – 11
Business review  
12 – 27
Governance 
28 – 48
Financial statements  
49 – 88
07
Ashmore Group plc  
Annual report and accounts 2010
overall with 97% by AuM of those 
accounts managed to benchmarks 
outperforming their benchmarks over 
one year, and 53% outperforming over 
three years. Hence the Group’s well-
established active investment processes, 
which have been tested during a number 
of cycles, continued to generate alpha. 
Importantly, this alpha also came from 
where we expected and had predicted to 
clients, in the roll-down of risk through 
our investment themes from sovereign 
investment grade through non-investment 
grade to local currency, corporate debt, 
equity and, just beginning in this year 
and expected to continue over the next 
1-2 years, special situations/private equity.
Recognising developments within 
emerging markets, availability of assets 
for investment and providing routes 
to invest in them is our core function. 
As more investors realise the opportunity 
of emerging market investing, and those 
markets grow and provide more diversified 
opportunities, our challenge is to provide 
suitable products to each potential client. 
This year saw us establish a variety of new 
products as we saw increasing opportunity 
to provide investors differing slices of 
emerging markets risk with different target 
returns and liquidity profiles. 
As a result, and as our existing 
investors will know, we now provide 
sub-themes within each of the major 
public markets investment themes of 
external debt, local currency and corporate 
debt, with different liquidity and risk 
characteristics. If an investor wants a 
highly liquid, plain vanilla, single theme, 
daily dealing product, with lower targeted 
returns than the strategies that accept less 
liquidity, or than the more blended and 
complex investment packages, then we 
can now provide it, both in UK and Europe 
(and to some extent Asia), through a full 
suite of SICAV products. We also expect 
to be able to do so in the USA in this 
financial year.
from £159.8 million to £217.2 million with 
earnings per share increasing to 23.9 pence 
(FY2008/09: 17.1 pence). In line with the 
increase in earnings per share, and in view 
of the positive outlook for the business, 
whilst maintaining a strong balance sheet 
to support seed capital for new products, 
we are delighted to be able to recommend 
an increase in the total dividend to 
13.0 pence (FY2008/09: 12.0 pence).
Emerging markets: 
Developments and opportunities
The year has been marked by the further 
enhancement of the relative positioning of 
emerging markets over developed markets 
in several ways. Firstly, the forecast for 
economic growth in emerging markets 
remains a credible 6-7% in both 2010 and 
2011, significantly outstripping the forecast 
growth levels for the developed world 
of just over 2% in each year. Developed 
markets will only recover slowly from the 
credit crisis as the effects of deleveraging 
will still be felt for some time and policy 
has to adjust to reflect the much less 
levered environment. Secondly, balance of 
payment fundamentals in many emerging 
markets remain strong and improving. 
A number of emerging economies already 
have the theoretical capacity to use 
reserves to pay off all of their debt and still 
be left with surpluses; an impossible dream 
for any major developed country. Thirdly, 
despite home country bias, the historic 
prejudices of investors towards the “safer” 
developed world over “riskier” emerging 
markets are steadily being dispelled by 
the recent events in the Eurozone, where 
downgrades have begun to contrast with 
the steady upgrades expected in emerging 
markets over coming years. Finally, the 
role of the emerging markets, and their 
importance within the G20 as it sets 
international policy, continues to expand, 
particularly in exploring the longer term 
reform of the international monetary 
system and the likely increased role of 
emerging markets’ currencies.
In summary, there is a new structure 
to the global economy and in particular the 
bargaining power of the emerging world. 
Ashmore has a long history of successful 
investment across emerging markets 
and regards this long-term structural 
opportunity, coupled with an inexorable 
shift of investors’ allocations to the 
emerging markets, as providing a platform 
for further development in shareholder 
value through the execution of our stated 
three-phase strategy. 
For our strategy
please see page 08 >
Operational achievements
The key to the long-term success of any 
asset manager is to consistently produce 
strong investment performance and 
establish and distribute products that 
capture the requirements of a diverse 
and growing client base. Investment 
performance during the year was good 
Sub-themes introduced within 
external debt, local currency and 
corporate debt with different 
liquidity and risk characteristics
Final dividend per share
8.34p (2009)
9.34p
