 2 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Chairman’s statement
In its first year of trading as a plc the 
Ashmore Group has delivered strong financial
results and has enhanced further the solid
foundations on which the Company has been
built since it was established in 1998.
It is pleasing to be able to report a good set of
results for the twelve months ended 
30 June 2007. Despite some periods of market
volatility which were encountered during the
year , the Group exceeded the financial targets
set at the beginning of the year and, during that
time, continued to develop its brand and
business model. The Group also continued to
invest in the necessary resources to support the
future growth of the business.
AuM increased from the level of US$20.1 billion
at the start of the financial year to stand at
US$31.6 billion as at 30 June 2007, an increase
of 57%. The Group’s net management fees rose
from £78.5 million to £126.4 million, an increase
of 61%. The profit before tax was £131.4 million 
against £103.9 million for the previous year ,
an increase of 26%.
These results demonstrate the underlying
strength of the Group founded on the twin
pillars of first-rate investment performance 
and professional client service. In his review,
on pages 3 to 7 of this report, Mark Coombs,
the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, sets out
the market dynamics and the vision and
business strategy of the Group going forward.
The directors are recommending a final dividend
of 6.7p for the year ended 30 June 2007 and,
subject to shareholder approval, this will be paid
on 7 December to all shareholders who are on
the register on 9 November . This makes a total
dividend of 9.0p for the year .
I would like to take this opportunity of thanking
Jim Pettigrew, the Group’s Chief Operating and
Financial Officer , who will be leaving Ashmore,
for all the support he has given the Group while
he has been with us. We wish him every
success in his new endeavours.
The ultimate success of any investment
company rests with the people who are in it 
and their ability to deliver the highest level of
investment performance and client service.
The results for the year demonstrate that the
team within Ashmore is of an exceptional
calibre and I would like to thank each member
of the team personally for their considerable
efforts and dedication. The global financial
markets are currently experiencing another
period of volatility: I am confident that the 
Group will meet robustly the challenges that 
the markets may produce.
Michael Benson
Chairman
