 05
Overview Per FOr MANCe review gOver NANCe FiNANCiAl st Ate MeNts
Ash MOre gr OuP Pl C / Ar 09 / Per FOr MANCe review / ChAir MAN’s st Ate MeNt
Chairman’s statement
The team at Ashmore is committed  
to implementing successfully its strategy 
of developing a global specialist 
emerging markets business, with assets 
of all classes managed both centrally 
and through developing a number  
of local asset management operations  
in the key emerging markets.
I would like to thank all the members  
of the Group for the efforts they continue 
to make towards achieving our goals. 
The opportunities and challenges that 
will be presented in the future will be 
significant as the global economic 
prospects become ever more influenced 
by the emerging markets, where the 
Group has a track record of success, 
built over many years. 
Michael Benson
Chairman
The year to 30 June 2009 was one  
of unprecedented turbulence in the 
global economy, which resulted in  
an extreme reduction in the levels of 
leverage deployed across the world 
and a significant reduction of liquidity 
and increased volatility throughout 
world markets. As the year ended, 
there were some signs of a recovery 
in markets with a more stable set  
of conditions prevailing. Against  
this background, Ashmore Group 
(“Ashmore” or the “Group”) has had a 
broadly satisfactory year, with a profit 
before tax of £159.8 million (year 
ended 30 June 2008: £196.2 million). 
see page 15 for further details
Over the last year the Group has 
concentrated on its core capabilities  
of product innovation, asset raising/
retention, good investment performance 
and excellent client service. At the same 
time, it has continued to strengthen the 
business through the recruitment of 
additional talented individuals within the 
central and local asset management 
businesses and through the introduction 
of enhanced core systems and operating 
processes. The Chief Executive Officer’s 
statement and the Business review 
provide further detail on these activities.
In recognition of the financial performance, 
and our confidence in the Group’s  
future prospects, the Directors are 
recommending a final dividend of  
8.34 pence for the year ended 30 June 
2009 which, subject to shareholder 
approval, will be paid on 4 December 
2009 to all shareholders who are on  
the register on 6 November 2009. This 
makes a total dividend of 12.0 pence  
for the year (2008: 12.0 pence).
During the year ended 30 June 2009, 
the following Board changes occurred. 
In September 2008, Jonathan Asquith 
joined the Group, having been Vice 
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer  
at Schroders plc. Initially he was an 
independent non-executive Director  
and member of the audit committee. 
Subsequently he has become Chairman 
of the remuneration committee. 
Jonathan’s extensive industry 
experience and knowledge have added 
additional strength to the Board and its 
committee structure. At the Group’s 
AGM in October, Jon Moulton retired, 
having been a non-executive Director 
since the Group was established in 
1999. I should like to thank Jon for the 
very considerable contributions he made 
over those 10 years. In June, the Group 
announced the appointment to the 
Board of Melda Donnelly, former  
Chief Executive Officer of Queensland 
Investment Corporation and current 
Deputy Chairperson of the Victoria 
Funds Management Corporation.  
Melda has extensive experience of the 
international pension industry and of 
institutional shareholder best practice.  
I would like to welcome Melda to the 
Board, and she has also become a 
member of the audit committee from 
which I have stepped down.
see page 25 for further details
 
 
t he team at Ashmore has a track record  
of success built over many years.
Ashmore_R&A09_front_n.indd   5 21/9/09   18:14:12
