 14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
The financial year ended 30 June 2011 was broadly a good one  
for the Group. Ashmore achieved strong growth in assets under 
management (“AuM”), from both outperformance and net 
subscriptions, and resultant good financial performance in the 
management company. At the same time we managed to make 
progress with regard to our future growth plans by achieving some 
initial success in two major strategic plans – the development of  
a broader and deeper distribution platform and the acquisition  
of an emerging markets equities manager, Emerging Markets 
Management LLC (“EMM”) (see section below).
AuM development and financial performance 
During the year AuM increased by 86% from US$35.3 billion to 
US$65.8 billion, comprising net subscriptions of US$15.5 billion, 
investment performance of US$5.1 billion and US$9.9 billion 
through the EMM acquisition. 
Overall gross subscriptions totalled US$23.0 billion with the 
highlights including a very successful take-up of an Asian retail 
multi-strategy fund in the first half, good levels of subscriptions  
into local currency and external debt from a very broad range of 
investors during the second half, and further currency overlay 
inflows throughout the year.
The absolute levels of gross redemptions increased to US$7.5 billion 
(FY2009/10 US$3.7 billion) reflecting of course our absolute growth 
in scale, but also in part the increase in retail originated AuM where 
turnover rates are typically higher than from institutionally sourced 
assets. Additionally, the natural maturity profile of special situations 
investments has contributed somewhat as asset realisations from 
sales of investments at this point in the cycle returned US$0.5 billion 
capital to investors over the year from a total of US$3.4 billion 
invested at the start of it. However, all in all our firm wide 
redemption rate of 16% per annum remains relatively low.
Financial performance
Net revenue in the year increased by 17% to £333.8 million driven 
by a 31% growth in management fee income and a second 
successive year of record performance fees. We increased our 
operating cost base as intended in line with our growth plans with 
modest net headcount increases, before adding a further 70 people 
through the EMM acquisition. Variable compensation for the year,  
as a percentage of earnings before variable compensation, interest 
and tax (“EBVCIT”), remained exactly in line with our planned level 
of 19% (FY2009/10: 18%). As a result, our operating margins have 
reduced slightly to 72%, and as our target remains consistent – to 
maintain an industry leading operating margin whilst growing the 
scale of the business – we were delighted to record a fifth successive 
year in the “70s”. However, given our growing scale and the 
acquisition, which has historically operated on lower margins, we 
would expect this to finally enter the “60s” in the year to come,  
as long anticipated.
For more information on our ﬁnancial performance see 
p24 to p28
 
 
Strategic progress
This has been a year of significant progress in both distribution and 
product development and through the acquisition of the dedicated 
emerging markets equities asset manager, EMM. 
Last year we outlined the process underway in building a broader 
distribution platform, and this is an initiative on which we have 
continued to focus. Firstly, we have deepened the distribution team, 
increasing the headcount further from 21 to 32. The team is being 
reorganised to provide expertise aligned to the specific needs of the 
institutional and retail client segments with hiring across all areas  
of business development, client/account management and service 
delivery. This structure is in place throughout our principal global 
distribution locations – London, New York, Tokyo, Singapore, Beijing 
and Melbourne – with further dedicated distribution staff within  
our local asset management businesses in Brazil and Turkey – all 
organised as a single centrally managed, but globally located team. 
Added to their increased scale in headcount terms, our New York, 
Tokyo and Beijing operations have become further licensed during 
the year by local regulators providing us with the platform to 
increase our distribution from these centres to a wider range of 
investors. The coming year is expected to see us complete the 
reorganisation of our distribution platform.
Assets under management  
(AuM) at period end
+86%
US$65.8bn
Net revenue
+17%
£333.8m Business review Governance Financial statements
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 15
In line with these developments, the period has seen the launch of 
many new funds and segregated accounts as conduits for asset 
raising and we expect this trend to continue this year. This included 
the launch in December 2010 of our first sponsored suite of US  
SEC registered 40 Act funds for US institutional and retail investors 
providing by the year end a full range of global emerging markets 
debt and equities funds. We aim to grow these by partnering with 
financial intermediaries including private banks, broker/dealers  
and other retail distributors and as we develop track records in  
these conduits, expect to see steady and significant assets from 
these channels. 
For more information on our strategic progress see p6 to p7
 
 
Acquisition
In line with our stated strategy of increasing the scale of our public 
equities theme we announced in February our intention to acquire a 
62.9 per cent stake in EMM, a long established dedicated emerging 
markets equities manager, and following a strong level of support 
from their investors and our shareholders the transaction was 
completed on 31 May 2011. 
(1) Strategic rationale
Simply expressed, our stated ambition is to be the pre-eminent, 
specialist, emerging markets investment manager covering all asset 
classes. We recognise that our most significant gap remains a lack of 
scale within the equities theme and the acquisition of EMM provides 
this scale and proven investment capability in a dedicated emerging 
markets equities business. The transaction, with a proportion of  
the consideration in the form of an earnout over three years post 
completion, and the deepening of equity ownership across a 
broader number of their staff, was structured to align our interests 
with the team at EMM.
(2) Activities to date
The business was rebranded AshmoreEMM immediately  
on completion.
Clients have all received confirmation that this reflects our strategic 
objectives and the scale benefits of a larger house providing all 
investment management products to customers, whilst providing 
confidence in the continuity in investment philosophy and process at 
AshmoreEMM which will not change. Furthermore, AshmoreEMM  
has now become responsible for the investment management of all 
centrally managed equity products within the Group through a unified 
management structure and Investment Committee, incorporating all 
global equities investment professionals in the Group. 
The global Ashmore distribution team has now incorporated the 
existing AshmoreEMM product range on to our distribution platform 
and has ensured that the appropriate local account management 
engagement occurs for all clients and we have begun to develop 
products to take advantage of the Group’s wide range of existing 
clients. The physical integration of the AshmoreEMM business  
on to the core portfolio management and fund accounting systems 
used across the Group has also begun with the client relationship 
management and general ledger systems being the first to become 
fully integrated. We would expect to have completed the necessary 
level of systems integration with AshmoreEMM within the financial 
year to 30 June 2012. 
(3) Going forward.
Now we have to make it work. The investment managers have to 
outperform, distribution have to raise assets and technology and 
operations areas have to deliver the systems and process improvements 
needed. Understandably, the efforts involved in the migration over to 
new technology systems and processes will be significant, but we are 
very confident in the combined talents of the operations, technology 
and other support teams to deliver these projects between now and the 
end of the financial year to 30 June 2012. 
In line with the reorganisation undertaken we will report progress 
going forward within the equities theme of our global asset 
management business. 
“ A year of significant progress in 
both distribution and product 
development and through the 
acquisition of a dedicated 
emerging markets equity  
asset manager.” 16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
Theme reclassification
In line with the Group’s steady evolution, the investment themes 
into which all funds and accounts are organised have been 
reclassified going forward. This process is driven by our desire to 
align the reporting of our business in a manner with which the 
investment community is familiar and looks to allocate assets, as 
well as being satisfied that a particular theme attains critical mass 
and is not correlated in performance terms exactly with another 
existing theme. 
The first reclassification is the separate identification of a dedicated 
investment theme of emerging markets blended debt, where such 
mandates specifically combine external, local currency and corporate 
debt. This reflects the significant demand we see from institutional 
investors seeking returns benchmarked against blended indices 
comprised typically of external debt and local currency, with in  
some cases a corporate debt component. In such mandates, clients 
expect to see a blend of debt themes at all times, although of 
varying weighting, and we are measured against tailor-made 
blended indices reflecting a client’s strategic commitment to the 
three themes and their neutral view of the appropriate weighting  
of the three themes. The decisions we make are tactical variations 
around this. In contrast, going forward, the existing external debt 
theme contains funds and accounts benchmarked against a single 
sovereign emerging markets external debt index, although some 
mandates may include an ability to off index/cross-over invest into 
other themes such as local currency, corporate and special situations 
assets, with the firm’s flagship EMLIP fund having invested in this 
manner since its inception in 1992. Irrespective of the ability to 
invest across the debt themes, such accounts are usually majority 
external debt as allocations to other debt themes are always seen  
as tactical rather than strategic.
Secondly, we have reclassified the real estate and infrastructure 
funds organised currently within the “other” theme in combination 
with our special situations assets to create an overall alternatives 
theme. This recognises the similarity in nature of these strategies’ 
investments, in particular their long term and less liquid nature, and 
hence of fund structure and investment process across them,  
as well as reflecting how they are viewed by distributors and  
other intermediaries. 
Thirdly, given the scale of AuM within currency overlay/hedging,  
we have created a dedicated currency overlay/liquidity theme 
recognising the different nature and risk profile of these products 
which results in a different revenue margin profile. 
People and culture
In a period when dramatic economic events in the developed 
world were arising so frequently, given our exclusive focus on 
the emerging markets, our cultural sense of identity is, I believe, 
stronger than ever. 
The year has seen the recognition of our investment professionals’ 
performance with an award from European Pensions as Emerging 
Markets Manager of the Year, an Investment Excellence award from 
Global Investor for Emerging Markets Fixed Income and the Asian 
Investor Investment Performance Award for Best Emerging Markets 
Debt Manager. Given the significant increase in competition across 
emerging markets fund management as others progressively share 
our vision, it is particularly satisfying to be recognised for our 
ongoing outperformance in this way. I should like to thank everyone 
at Ashmore for the huge efforts that went into achieving the year’s 
investment, financial and operational results. Whilst the distribution 
and acquisition developments described in detail above were two 
key strategic targets undertaken in the year, there is much more 
hard work ahead of us all in order to allow us to take maximum 
advantage of the opportunity presented through these and other 
initiatives. In the year to come, and reflecting the investments we 
have made in both, we have to become a leading performer in 
equities, as well as maintain that in external, local currency and 
corporate debt, foreign exchange and alternatives, and our 
distribution team has to deliver upon raising assets across a broader 
range of products. I am confident that we will rise to these 
challenges and achieve further success across the Ashmore business.
For more information on our people and culture see p36
 
 
“ I should like to thank everyone  
at Ashmore for the huge efforts 
that went into achieving the 
year’s investment, financial  
and operational results.” Business review Governance Financial statements
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 17
Outlook
In the new financial year, unaudited annual performance fees for  
the funds with performance years ended 31 August 2011 were 
£18.8 million (August 2010: £43.5 million). 
The major recent economic events in the developed markets,  
Greek debt restructuring and the raising of the US debt ceiling,  
were predictable given the deleveraging still required to occur across 
the highly indebted developed world. What was not so obvious  
was the degree of political chaos and irresponsibility that ultimately 
led to the US rating downgrade. It is now no longer the emerging 
economies that should be described as the homes of default and 
fiscal irresponsibility, although some home country bias will of 
course persist amongst developed world politicians and investors. 
The global sell off resulting from these events has further reinforced 
the fundamental attractiveness across the emerging markets asset 
classes. Emerging markets external sovereign debt is now relatively 
safer than it was compared to US treasuries and as a result we 
anticipate spreads over those treasuries will tighten significantly in 
the coming year. Local currencies are set to rise against the US dollar 
in the next six months as we expect central banks to steadily use 
currency appreciation to control domestic inflation. The opportunity 
for generating alpha through active management continues in this 
area given the variations of monetary and exchange rate policy 
being undertaken by different countries reflecting their different 
cycles. Corporate debt in emerging markets is continuing to grow 
strongly as companies want tenor not available from bank lending 
and will increasingly turn to the bond markets. Our long developed 
expertise in this asset class should continue to provide strong 
investment outperformance.
Emerging markets equities valuations suggest the upcoming quarter 
may represent a good entry point with earnings forecast to grow 
strongly over the medium term. Our alternatives theme is one of 
much activity at present as we continue to realise investments, find 
some very interesting new opportunities as a result of tightening 
balance sheets worldwide, within our special situations funds, as 
well as making new investments in our real estate joint venture 
funds in China and Russia. At the same time we are looking to 
replicate our real estate and infrastructure initiatives in other emerging 
economies where demand for such assets is of course significant.
The key attributes for success in asset management are of course  
to consistently outperform and to raise and keep assets whilst 
running an effective and scaleable operational platform. Our strong 
investment performance has continued so far, but must be 
maintained, and we will also need to utilise our increased product 
breadth and global distribution capacity on an ever more robust 
technology and operations platform to succeed.
The opportunity for raising AuM from both developed country and 
emerging markets sources as they increasingly come to realise the 
attractiveness of the emerging markets asset classes over developed 
market alternatives, remains a compelling one. We want to be a 
major participant in both. To that end in the coming year, we would 
like to further develop our strategic plans in local asset management 
operations within the emerging markets themselves. 
There remains much to do to build our Company, but we are up for 
the challenge.
Mark Coombs
Chief Executive Officer
Profit before tax
+13%
£245.9m
T otal dividend for the year
+12%
14.5p
