 3 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
During the year we continued to make significant
advances towards our strategic goal to be the
leading emerging markets investment manager
by maintaining a market-leading investment track
record, growing and diversifying earnings,
efficiently supporting AuM and revenue growth,
and developing further the Ashmore brand and
business model.
Strategy
The Group’s strategy – to be the leading emerging
markets investment manager – has remained
consistent for many years. There are four major
areas of focus as part of the drive to deliver on 
this strategy .
•the maintenance of a market leading investment
track record
The Group’s investment process, which has remained
unchanged since 1992, is centred on an internally
developed top-down macro investment approach,
coupled with a bottom-up approach for corporate 
and special situations/distressed opportunities,
both executed through a broad variety of financial
products such as debt, equity and foreign exchange
products and instruments, with a particular emphasis
placed on liquidity . Our aim is to achieve consistently
upper quartile investment performance.
• the delivery of growth and diversification of the
Group’s earnings
At Ashmore we aim to continue to grow AuM across
multiple investment themes and product structures.
We believe this will be achieved by the further
development of our marketing and distribution
capabilities through a number of sources including
external consultants, third-party agreements and
strategic alliances and by growing Ashmore’s product
range. An important aspect of the drive to diversify 
the Group’s earnings is the promotion of existing and
new investment themes under existing and future
product structures to new investors, and the promotion
of multiple themes to the existing investor base.
• the need to support the growth of the business in
a controlled manner
At all times Ashmore seeks to develop its infrastructure
so that it can effectively support current and future
business activity levels, thus enabling the business to
grow with appropriate operational controls within a
high quality infrastructure.
• the further development of the Ashmore brand
and business model
The Group will continue to identify and develop a
variety of investment themes and, by offering a full
range of emerging market investment products,
we will be able to cater for a wide range of investors
with a variety of risk return appetites. Looking 
further ahead we aim to play a significant part 
in the mobilisation of capital within emerging
markets, including managing the growing domestic
capital pools within the economies of the emerging
markets.
Progress in the year against our objectives
During the year we made significant progress against
our strategic objectives. It has been another year of
good investment performance across the Group’s
investment themes. The generation of ‘alpha’ within the
Group’s funds continues to come from a number of
sources including management of country risk,
exchange rates, volatility , credit, instrument maturity
and interest rates. We have increased the number of
investment professionals within the Group from 17 to 25
as part of the ongoing process of building the next
generation of Ashmore investment professionals.
It was a very busy year for new fund launches, including,
in April 2007, a retail multi-strategy fund for the
Japanese market (US$1.0 billion), in February 2007 
a new segregated fund in the Group’s global US$ 
theme (US$0.4 billion) and a private equity fund
investing in Turkey (US$0.1 billion). During the first half
of the financial year GSSF 3, a special situations fund
(US$1.4 billion), was launched, a new local currency
debt fund within the Ashmore SICAV initially funded at 4 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
US$0.1 billion, a new structured alpha product in the
global US$ theme initially funded at US$0.2 billion,
and two new segregated equity funds (raising a total of
US$0.8 billion) were launched. Additionally , there were
a number of new mandate successes in the year
including the HSBC UK pension fund (US$670 million)
multi-strategy mandate which was secured in
November 2006. The Group’s multi-strategy funds,
which invest across the Group’s investment themes,
also had a successful year with AuM, which benefited
from the new fund targeting Japanese retail investors
and the HSBC mandate win mentioned earlier ,
increasing by 333% in the year to US$2.6 billion at 
30 June 2007. All of the above clearly demonstrate 
the vibrancy and innovation within our business and
highlight the continuing growth and diversification of
the Group’s AuM. The Group now manages 41 funds/
segregated accounts across its four investment themes.
We have continued to develop the Group’s
infrastructure capabilities. The Group’s present
technology arrangements more than adequately
support current business activity levels. However ,
following an extensive review, we have started a 
two-year programme to upgrade the Group’s IT
infrastructure. This project will cost some £2 million
and, in the main, the project costs will be amortised 
to the income statement over a five-year period.
Once completed, the Group will have systems
architecture in place which is scaleable to support
the anticipated growth in business activity levels 
and which will improve further the efficiency of its
middle and back office operations.
During the year , the number of employees within 
the Group increased from 49 at 30 June 2006 to 
69 at 30 June 2007 reflecting our commitment to grow
the business in a controlled manner and to bring
together a team of like-minded people who believe
passionately in the long-term strategic objectives 
of the Group. The continuing development of the
Group’s marketing, distribution and client relationship
capabilities remains an area of key focus. We have
increased our resources in this area and we continue
to develop and broaden the Group’s various
distribution channels. In particular , we continue to seek
strategic alliances with market leading financial
services providers in their home markets to access
new pools of capital for our products through new
distribution channels efficiently leveraging other’s
infrastructure. For this reason, we are delighted to have
launched our multi-strategy fund for the Japanese
retail market with Nikko.
Turning to the future, there remains much to achieve
and we continue to research new opportunities to
diversify further and to continue to grow the Group’s
investment themes and earnings streams, and to
access the growing domestic capital pools within
selected emerging markets. This may result in the
Group utilising a proportion of its capital resources
as seed capital for new fund launches/initiatives.
Emerging market dynamics
The case for emerging markets remains well supported
by strong macro-economic, demographic and political
factors. GDP growth rates in emerging market
economies are generally forecast to be higher than
developed countries and debt to GDP ratios continue 
to reduce. However , many of these developing countries
suffer from low production efficiencies due to a lack 
of access to capital. The size and the potential of
the emerging market universe, over 60 countries,
is probably best illustrated by the fact that it represents
approximately 85% of the world’s population.
Global liquidity levels remain relatively high and, by
historic standards, there is a greater recognition that
investors are increasingly seeking to access enhanced
returns and to potentially benefit from diversification
and lower overall volatility through investments in
emerging markets. Perhaps more important, an
increasing amount of that liquidity is being generated
within emerging market economies themselves,
gradually decreasing their reliance on offshore capital.
This is a trend we expect to continue. 5 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Innovation and diversification
The emerging market universe of over 60 countries represents approximately
85% of the world’s population.
The Group now manages 41 funds and segregated accounts across its four
investment themes.
Number of funds (30 June)
2005
3
8
12
3
2006
2
12
13
9
2007
3
14
16
8
26
36
41
Ashmore sponsored
Structured
Segregated
White label/dual branded
Breakdown of AuM
2007 (2006)
Global US$ 
67% (76%)
Special 
situations 
11% (6%)
Local 
currency 
16% (15%)
Equity 
6% (3%)
AuM by fund account classification
2007 (2006)
Ashmore 
sponsored 
funds
52% (50%)
Structured
products 
6% (6%)
Segregated
accounts 
32% (34%)
White label/
dual branded 
10% (10%) 6 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
As an asset class, emerging market debt is rapidly
maturing with a more developed institutional 
investor base which is investing strategically for 
the medium to long term. Against this backdrop,
with over 60 emerging market countries, this 
provides diversification based on different economic
and political dynamics, with reduced risk of
contagion that financial problems in one country
could affect others. Tradeable emerging market 
debt increased in 2006 by 28% to US$5.5 trillion,
with particularly strong growth in corporate and local
currency debt.
At Ashmore, we believe that the favourable economic
growth dynamics of emerging market economies,
the structural inefficiencies within them and the
tendency , in many cases, for their shares to trade at 
a discount to developing markets, all point to strong
growth potential.
The Group’s special situations/distressed investment
theme continues to provide opportunities to 
exploit the natural diversification resulting from
different unrelated dynamics to provide low
correlation to other asset classes. New opportunities
for investment in special situations/distressed
investments are emerging in eastern Europe and
Latin America in addition to the existing depth of
opportunities in Asia.
Outlook
The Group remains focused on delivering long-term
investment out-performance, generating net
management fee income through the attraction of net
subscriptions across its investment themes and
developing the Ashmore brand and business model.
Despite recent market volatility, trading conditions
across the Group’s investment themes during the 
last quarter of the 2007 financial year and into the
start of the 2008 financial year remain satisfactory.
The Group continues to believe that strong macro-
economic, demographic and political factors,
together with enhanced liquidity, index weighting 
and credit worthiness in the Group’s markets will
continue to underpin long-term growth across
emerging market classes.
These factors, together with Ashmore’s experience
and expertise in emerging markets investment
management, position the Group well to benefit from
further demand for emerging market investment
management products and to continue its growth
momentum into the 2008 financial year .
Mark Coombs
Chief Executive Officer 7 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
August        2006 –GSSF 3, a US$1.4 billion special situations fund, launched
– a new local currency fund launched in the Group’s      
SICAV, initially funded at US$0.1 billion.
October      2006   –Group lists on London Stock Exchange
December   2006 – a new structured alpha product in the Group’s global 
US$ theme, initially funded at US$0.2 billion              
–AuM at 31 December 2006 reaches US$26.8 billion,
a 33% increase since 30 June 2006
January    2007 – an 18% increase in AuM in the Group’s multi-strategy 
fund reported in the six months to 31 December 2006
February    2007 –launch of a new private equity fund investing in Turkey ,
initially funded at US$0.1 billion
March       2007 –AuM in the quarter to 31 March 2007 increased by 
9% to US$29.2 billion
April          2007 –launch of a new multi-strategy fund for the Japanese 
retail market raising US$1.0 billion
June          2007 –AuM rose to US$31.6 billion at 30 June 2007,
an 8% increase in the quarter and a 57% increase 
during the financial year
Key events in the year
