 “
“
Chairman’s Statement 
 
Demonstrable progress in raising and 
retaining assets, utilising specialist 
knowledge and skills to invest. 
As shareholders will be aware, global economies are currently facing 
many challenges, not least of which centre round the European debt 
crisis and the contraction of trade around the world. Such conditions 
create great uncertainty, which in turn lead to considerable market 
volatility. Against this background Ashmore has had a year of 
consolidation, one in which it has been able to use its specialist 
knowledge and skills to enhance its scalable operating platform. This  
is a key component for achieving success in any asset management 
business and the Chief Executive Officer’s report and Business Review 
which follow provide details of what has been achieved. 
In financial terms, the Group has produced a solid performance.  
The closing level of AUM was US$ 63.7 billion, marginally down from 
last year, which reflects the impact of difficult and volatile market 
conditions. Despite this, a number of the asset classes have grown 
through net inflows. As against last year the Group’s revenues have 
fallen very marginally, largely due to the anticipated reduction in 
performance fees. This fall was mitigated to some extent by increased 
management fees. 
A little over a year ago the Group completed the acquisition of 
AshmoreEMM and after a considerable amount of planning the 
business has been successfully integrated into the Group and the  
new equity team is operating well. Looking forward, the Group is 
determined to grow its equity footprint and the experience which 
AshmoreEMM has developed over many years will provide a sturdy 
platform to help achieve this. 
The Board continues to place great emphasis on all issues surrounding 
corporate governance and it welcomes the appointment of Simon 
Fraser, who joined the Group as a Non-executive Director in February  
this year. He has had a long and extensive career in the field of 
investment management and his experience will be very helpful to  
the Board. We are looking to appoint a further Non-executive Director  
in due course. Jonathan Asquith, who has been on the Board since 
September 2008, will retire and not seek re-election at the AGM.  
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank him for the service and 
contribution that he has given to the Group during this period. 
Although the Group saw a modest fall in earnings per share, as against 
last year, the Board remains confident about the future and the growth 
of the operations and the Directors are recommending a final dividend 
of 10.75p a share for the year to 30 June 2012, which, subject to 
shareholders’ approval, will be paid on 7 December, to those 
shareholders on the register on 9 November. This makes a total dividend 
for the year of 15.00p a share (FY2010/11: 14.50p a share). 
While the challenges facing the global markets look likely to continue, 
Ashmore’s investment team will continue to strive to produce top class 
investment performance, through its exclusive focus on the Emerging 
Markets. The distribution and support teams will also seek to win, serve 
and retain the assets of the Group’s diverse and growing client base. 
Looking back over the year there is much that has been accomplished, 
but there are always areas where improvements can be made and the 
Group remains totally committed to achieving the highest standards and 
levels of excellence in everything it does. 
The Board is grateful to everyone across the Group’s global offices for 
their hard work and commitment over the past year.  
Michael Benson 
Chairman 
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
