 “
“
Chief Executive Officer’s Report 
 
In facing all of our challenges together
I continue to be impressed by our 
team, and by the significant levels of 
emotional capital they invest in what 
we do. 
The results for the year ended 30 June 2012 provided a  
demonstration of the continuing resilient nature of Ashmore  
Group in a difficult year for investing. The business is now a more 
diversified one with the full range of Emerging Markets investment 
themes in place. This provides for an unrivalled depth of Emerging 
Markets fund products for which the distribution architecture is 
significantly developed. The expected increased levels of management 
fee income largely offset the anticipated reduction in performance 
fees. The Group was successful in completing the integration  
of the Emerging Markets equities business AshmoreEMM, with  
the consideration structure providing a reduction in the expected  
level of contingent payments, as global equity indices declined and 
hence levels of equities AuM reduced. Overall therefore the profit 
before tax for the Group was £243.2 million, a reduction of 1%  
on the previous year.  
AuM Development 
During the year, although average AuM increased by US$17.5 billion 
(38%), AuM decreased by 3% from US$65.8 billion to US$63.7 billion 
as overall negative investment performance of US$3.4 billion 
exceeded the level of net subscriptions achieved of US$1.3 billion. 
Gross subscriptions totalled US$13.0 billion (FY2010/11:  
US$23.0 billion) principally into all the debt themes with further  
large segregated mandates from both new and existing clients  
being a substantial component.  
Gross redemptions increased in absolute terms to US$11.7 billion 
(FY2010/11: US$7.5 billion) which at an overall level of 18%  
of average AuM remain on the low side by industry standards,  
although slightly up on the prior year. The absolute increase over 
levels experienced in prior periods was due to a combination  
of equities outflows in the first year after acquisition, and from  
retail multi-strategy assets raised in Japan in the prior period, 
undoubtedly amplified by the extreme market volatility  
experienced during the year. 
Investment performance 
Overall negative investment performance was primarily driven by  
the negative performance in equities and local currency exceeding 
positive investment performance in the external, corporate and 
blended debt themes. 
The sharp declines in equities indices, particularly in the first and 
fourth quarters, impacted AuM levels significantly in both the 
dedicated equities and multi-strategy themes. The predominantly 
dollar denominated external, corporate and blended debt mandates 
maintained positive performance given their relative attractions  
over developed world debt. In contrast, the declines in a number  
of Emerging Markets currencies due to the climate of risk  
aversion ensured that local currency debt indices were negative, 
notwithstanding the same underlying relative attractiveness. This  
led to negative investment performance in the local currency debt 
theme and of course impacted currency overlay AuM. At an overall 
Group level the percentage of funds outperforming benchmarks  
at 30 June 2012 was 23% over one year reflecting our consistent 
approach of adding risk in the risk off environment at the end of  
the first quarter and 86% over three years. This strong long-term 
investment performance profile, particularly in the debt themes, 
continues to underpin the Group’s position as one of the leading 
specialist Emerging Markets fund managers, which has again this  
year been recognised with a number of awards.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For more information on  
our financial performance see p. 20–27 
 
  
8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012  
 
Financial performance 
Revenue 
Net revenue for the year of £333.3 million was in line with the prior 
year. This resulted from a 21% increase in management fee income to 
£302.6 million, driven by an increase in average AuM levels offset by 
the reduction of average revenue margins which were largely in line 
with the levels reported at the interim stage (FY 2011/12: 74bps,  
H1 2011/12: 76 bps, FY 2010/11: 86bps). As reported at the interim 
this fall resulted from theme and mix effects including the respective 
weighting of the Group’s higher and lower margin themes as they 
were differently impacted by flows and performance, the inclusion  
of the equities theme for the full period with lower margins than the 
Group’s previous average, and further segregated account gains. The 
fall in performance fees to £25.4 million (FY 2010/11: £85.4 million) 
was expected as it is determined by levels of absolute investment 
performance, which reduce as is normal at this point in the cycle after 
peaking immediately following the credit crisis, and they were further 
reduced through the significant market sell offs at the end of the first 
quarter which largely eliminated performance fees for funds with year 
ends thereafter.  
Cost structure 
The Group has maintained its cost structure, and continues to focus 
on ensuring this remains a key strength, with the year on year changes 
largely reflecting the increment arising from the increase in staff and 
other costs resulting from the inclusion of the AshmoreEMM business 
for a first full year, together with the amortisation and share-based 
accounting charges arising from the transaction.  
The structure of staff costs has been maintained, whereby fixed 
salaries and benefits are set at a capped and low basic level, with the 
majority of staff costs arising from variable compensation, including  
a significant component of equity based long-term incentive share 
awards. This remains a core characteristic of Ashmore‘s business 
model. In the year to 30 June 2012 variable compensation as a 
percentage of earnings before variable compensation (VC/EBVCIT)  
was 18% (FY 2010/11: 19%). The VC/EBVCIT fell by 1% from the 
level of the prior period reflecting the less good overall performance 
metrics of the business – in particular short-term investment 
performance and shareholder return.  
Other expenses increased by 50% to £34.4 million (FY2010/11:  
£22.9 million). The increase reflected largely the costs of the acquired 
business and the amortisation of intangible assets (£6.2 million) arising 
within it.  
As a result operating profit for the year is £225.1 million (FY 2010/11: 
£239.4 million). In line with the statement made in the report last 
year, the Group‘s margins have reduced, although by slightly less than 
expected due to the lower variable compensation charge to an EBITDA 
margin of 71% for the year (FY 2010/11: 73%).  
 
Finance income during the period increased as a result of adjustments 
to the contingent consideration for the acquisition of AshmoreEMM. 
As in the first half, the further reduction during the second half in 
levels of AuM within the business, including outflows and negative 
investment performance, resulted in a downward revision of the level 
of the contingent payment at 31 May 2012, as well as reductions to 
the expected levels of the two further contingent payments scheduled 
for 31 May 2013 and 2014. This underlines the benefit of a significant 
component of the overall consideration being in the form of 
contingent payments. Incorporating finance charges arising from the 
unwind of the discount of contingent payments and gains upon the 
Group‘s seed capital, the overall finance income was £18.1 million  
(FY 2010/11: £6.5 million).  
Profit after tax for the year was £185.7 million (FY 2010/11:  
£190.2 million). Earnings per share for the year was 26.82p 
(FY2010/11: 28.08p). 
Strategic progress 
Equities acquisition update 
The acquisition of AshmoreEMM was completed at the end of the 
prior financial year and integrating the business successfully was  
the focus for the current year. Immediately following change of 
control the distribution responsibilities for the equities theme were 
undertaken within Ashmore’s global distribution team and during the 
year this included the establishment of business development, 
institutional account management and product specialist functions 
through firstly familiarisation, then ongoing focus and training  
and targeted recruitment. The seeding and launch of daily dealing 
SICAV and US mutual funds on the Ashmore platforms for both the  
broad global active and global small cap strategies were completed 
providing efficient access to these two key conduits. Full investment 
responsibility for the Group’s equities theme was transferred to the 
AshmoreEMM team during the year and thereafter there has been  
a focus on further developing the equities investment process.  
The integration of AshmoreEMM onto the Group’s core portfolio 
management and fund accounting systems was completed on 
schedule. This implementation gives consistent systems across the 
Group and provides greater transparency and enables more effective 
and efficient group-wide support for the AshmoreEMM business. 
AshmoreEMM is now fully integrated into the Group with the local 
governance structure reflecting Ashmore‘s global operating model 
and with local functional units reporting into the respective global 
function head. Finally, in July 2012, immediately after the year end, 
the physical infrastructure was enhanced with the move to a new 
purpose designed office, open plan in nature in line with the Group’s 
global standard, providing for the adoption of the optimised group-
wide technology infrastructure. 
  
 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Chief Executive Officer’s Report continued 
 
 
Investment theme developments 
We continue to seek investment themes and sub-themes for investors 
to allocate capital across the Emerging Markets where we can provide 
both diversification of risk/return profiles and depth and growth of 
investable asset pools. The period has seen a widening adoption of 
Emerging Markets investment grade products, the initial establishment 
of dedicated local currency corporate debt funds, and the set up of 
conduits to allow wider access to our equity product suite, including  
in particular our small and mid cap and frontier markets expertise 
where we have outstanding track records across the Middle East, Asia 
and Africa. As expected with the inversion of credit quality between 
developed markets and Emerging Markets sovereigns, we have seen 
increasing momentum within Emerging Markets investment grade 
products as investors find the universe of developed world investment 
grade debt reduces, whilst it increases in Emerging Markets. We have 
also now launched investment grade bond products denominated in 
local currency. This enables investors to take advantage of attractive 
local currency exposure whilst diversifying away from Dollar, Euro,  
Yen and Sterling denominated bond assets which have traditionally 
dominated the investment grade space. Not all fixed income managers 
have the appropriate combination of interest rate, credit and foreign 
exchange skills to manage such a product successfully over the cycle, 
and we have been pleased with our immediate outperformance here. 
One of the most significant product initiatives in the year was not in 
the form of new product, but in new conduits for our existing global 
equities themes. We now have both SICAV and US 40 Act mutual 
funds in place for our broad global active, global small cap and 
frontier Emerging Markets equities products. These conduits open  
up the chance of investing with us to a far larger audience of both 
institutional and retail clients and we expect great things from both 
our investing and distribution teams in these sub themes. 
Distribution platform update 
In line with the progress reported over the previous two years, this 
year saw the final elements of the organisational structure added  
to the distribution platform, coupled with a deepening of resources 
within all the key functions. The addition of product specialists 
completes the architecture providing clients with access to individuals 
who are focused entirely upon the efficient communication of the 
investment management strategies and results. This function enables 
the investment management team to maximise their time managing 
assets yet ensuring the client or prospective client has full access to 
individuals participating in the respective investment committees and 
who are fully aware of every nuance of the resultant performance.  
Further progress was achieved in both the institutional and retail areas 
of the business. In terms of institutional clients, the global reach of  
the business development team delivered a broadening of the client 
base both in terms of client type and geographic location. Meanwhile 
further progress was made in the buildout of the Group’s retail 
activities with the Group securing access to a number of intermediary 
platforms in the US and Europe which are beginning to show 
encouraging early signs.  
The distribution headcount at the end of the year was 41 (30 June 
2011: 32) substantially completing the rapid growth phase of the 
team and ensuring the Group is positioned to raise assets and service 
clients globally from developed world and Emerging Markets with a 
highly experienced team of professionals focused on the Emerging 
Markets for all asset classes. 
Local asset management developments 
The Group believes strongly that, in addition to the AuM sourced from 
developed world investors who are increasing their allocations to the 
Emerging Markets in line with the trend of growth of these markets, 
its own long-term growth will be enhanced by successfully mobilising 
Emerging Markets capital in line with the third phase of the Group’s 
strategy. This recognises the absence of a history of the high leverage 
that is prevalent in the developed world, the economic growth 
prospects, demographics and enviable savings rate dynamics of these 
countries as well as the relatively early stage of development of asset 
management industries within many of these Emerging Markets.  
The Group has previously reported the establishment of local asset 
management subsidiaries in Brazil, Turkey and Colombia and real 
estate joint ventures in China and Russia which during the year have 
continued investing successfully and made progress in raising AuM, 
although much needs to be done. At the same time the Group has 
been looking throughout the period at further opportunities which 
aim to extend the geographic and asset class breadth.  
This has resulted in July 2012 in the establishment of a further new 
local asset management venture for Ashmore in Indonesia. We look 
forward to reporting on the developments within this new venture 
alongside the existing ones in the coming years.  
Overall the key now is to start seeing significant performance and 
asset growth from our local asset management operations. 
People and culture 
At the end of the year the Group’s headcount has increased to 257 
(30 June 2011: 246) reflecting the increase in both distribution and 
some of the key support functions which was offset by a small 
reduction arising from synergies achieved within the integration of 
AshmoreEMM. Whilst AuM levels overall have reduced by 3%, gross 
inflows of US$13 billion have resulted from the significant efforts 
across the Group in winning mandates and bringing them on board 
efficiently by strong cross functional collaboration. Our investment 
professionals have continued to ensure that their exclusive focus  
on the Emerging Markets and our long standing and rigorous 
investment process provide for the maximum potential for investment 
outperformance, in a year where global markets have provided many 
further challenges. In summary, last year judged through our KPIs, 
investment performance and shareholder return would probably  
be assessed as satisfactory. We, of course, like to do much better  
than this.  
10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
