 Chief Executive Officer’s report
concerns over a reduction in quantitative easing (QE) 
in the United States. Local currency assets were 
particularly affected in the sell-off, as technical 
factors, such as the presence of leveraged and 
speculative positions that were particularly sensitive 
to the Federal Reserve’s tapering message in  
May, outweighed the largely benign fundamental 
backdrop. This served as a reminder that Emerging 
Markets still comprise a broad spread of relatively 
inefficient asset classes, where misconceptions 
abound. However, historically such a divergence 
between market movements and underlying 
fundamentals has provided good opportunities  
for Ashmore’s value-based investment approach.
For the Group overall, the percentage of AuM 
outperforming benchmarks at 30 June 2013 was very 
good, at 92% over three years (30 June 2012: 86%) 
and 96% over one year (30 June 2012: 23%). It is 
particularly pleasing to note the improvement in the 
equities theme, with 39% of AuM outperforming 
over three years (30 June 2012: 21%) and 87%  
over one year (30 June 2012: 22%) as the specialist 
funds have continued to perform and the actions 
implemented to refine the Broad Global Active 
investment process have delivered.
The recent volatile market environment highlights 
once again the benefits of being a specialist active 
manager in Emerging Markets, and the investment 
returns described above demonstrate the benefits  
of bringing to bear over two decades of investment 
experience for the Group’s clients.
Financial performance
Revenue
Net revenue for the year of £355.5 million was  
7% higher than in the prior year. This resulted from  
a 4% increase in management fee income net  
of distribution costs to £311 .2 million, driven by  
an increase in average AuM levels offset by a 
reduction of average net management fee margins  
by 6bps to 68bps. 
The margin reduction was primarily the result  
of theme and client mix effects, together with 
notable success in winning relatively large mandates, 
particularly in the local currency theme, which 
The results for the year ended 30 June 2013 
illustrate the substantial progress made in building a 
more diversified business, with strong performance 
across the Group, record subscriptions following  
a period of investment in distribution, and an 
operational platform that is capable of processing 
and managing far higher levels of AuM. The 
experience of over two decades of investing solely  
in Emerging Markets, across equities, fixed income 
and alternatives, is invaluable in assessing the risks 
and opportunities inevitably presented by a period  
of market turbulence such as we witnessed towards 
the end of the financial year. During this period, 
Ashmore continued to outperform and to achieve 
strong client flows. 
AuM development
Assets under management increased 22% from 
US$63.7 billion to US$77 .4 billion during the year,  
with average AuM rising 13%, principally the result of 
strong net inflows of US$13.4 billion. Good investment 
performance over most of the year was offset by 
pronounced market weakness in late May and June.
Record gross subscriptions of US$27 .2 billion 
(FY2011/12: US$13.0 billion) were primarily into  
the debt themes, and particularly local currency  
and corporate debt where the investment universe 
and potential investment returns are both attractive. 
Demand for blended debt is also strong, as it 
represents a natural first step for an Emerging 
Markets allocation as well as satisfying the 
increasing trend for clients to specify bespoke 
benchmarks against which to measure investment 
performance. Pleasingly, the Group’s equities  
theme achieved gross subscriptions in each  
of the four quarters during the year. 
Gross redemptions increased in absolute terms  
to US$13.8 billion (FY2011/12: US$11 .7 billion) but  
at 19% of average AuM (FY2011/12: 18%) remained  
at a reasonable level and low by industry standards. 
Investment performance
Investment performance contributed US$0.3 billion; 
however, this masks good performance for the 
majority of the year negated by the sharp market 
declines in the fourth quarter, catalysed primarily by 
OVER TWO DECADES OF EMERGING 
MARKETS INVESTMENT EXPERIENCE
Emerging Markets GDP will be the driving force of global 
economic growth over the next 30 years. Ashmore is 
positioned at the heart of this growth
6 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 naturally attract a lower revenue margin. Specifically, 
among the local currency mandate wins during  
the period was a number of segregated accounts 
over US$500 million in size. These funds earn  
an appropriate management fee margin and are 
efficient to manage. Some competition is also 
evident, although its nature and intensity varies  
by theme, and in the context of an asset class  
that is growing rapidly and where many investors, 
particularly those in the developed world, are 
profoundly underweight, the presence of other 
Emerging Markets advocates is welcome.
Performance fees increased to £33.4 million 
(FY2011/12: £25.4 million), with the second half 
contribution slightly stronger than expected due  
to continued market strength in the third quarter. 
Performance fees represented 9% of net revenues 
for the period, broadly in line with the prior year 
(FY2011/12: 8%).
Cost structure
Ashmore keeps a firm control over its cost base, 
while continuing to invest appropriately, including  
in the expansion of the international office network.
The structure of staff costs is a defining characteristic 
of the Group’s business model, with a relatively low 
cap on basic salaries across the Group and a strong 
bias to performance-related variable compensation. 
The latter element places an emphasis on long-term 
equity ownership. In the year to 30 June 2013, 
variable compensation as a percentage of earnings 
before variable compensation, interest and tax  
(VC/EBVCIT) was 20% (FY201 1/12: 18%). 
Profitability
Operating profit for the year was £232.0 million 
(FY2011/12: £225.1 million). 
EBITDA, defined as operating profit excluding 
depreciation and amortisation, for the year was 
£252.2 million (FY2011/12: £236.2 million). The 
EBITDA margin of 71% for the year was unchanged 
(FY2011/12: 71%) and, consistent with the view 
expressed in previous years, our expectation is  
that the Group’s margin will move into the ‘60s’ 
over time.
Net finance income increased from £18.1 million  
to £25.7 million. As in the prior year, it includes 
several items relating to acquisition of AshmoreEMM, 
now operating under the Ashmore brand, and seed 
capital, on which more detail is provided in the 
Business review. 
Profit before tax for the year increased 6%  
to £257 .6 million (FY2011/12: £243.2 million). 
Earnings per share for the year were 29.98p 
(FY2011/12: 26.82p).
Capital Markets Day
In April, the Group held a capital markets 
event to enhance understanding of our 
strategy, the business, and the drivers of 
its future growth, as well as to introduce 
members of the investment, research and 
distribution teams to investors and 
analysts. The presentations were positively 
received and we will continue to pursue 
similar opportunities to further the 
understanding among stakeholders of 
Emerging Markets and our business.
View the 
presentation of our 
Capital Markets day 
on our website  
ashmoregroup.com
3 Months
0%
3%
6%
10%
Yield
5 Y ears 10 Y ears
US T reasury curve
Duration
EM Local  
Currency Government 
Bond Y ields
USD-denominated assets EM Local Currency assets 
Local Currency 
Bonds
Corporate  
Debt
Emerging 
Markets  
FX
External Debt 
(Sovereign)
Strategic progress
Distribution
In previous periods we have invested to expand the 
Group’s product range and to support rapid growth  
in distribution headcount. This year we demonstrated 
success from this investment through stronger 
gross and net subscriptions. 
Gross subscriptions of US$27 .2 billion represent  
a record for the Group and were sourced from a 
diversified range of clients, both existing and new, 
and were invested efficiently in a range of fixed 
income and equity products. The nature of our largely 
institutional business is that the pattern of client flows 
can be irregular, but the flows generated during the 
period are testament to the relationships established 
and developed by an enhanced distribution team, 
some of which can take many months, if not years,  
to come to fruition. Many of our clients are making 
Mapping the Main Fixed Income Investment Themes
7
Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 long-term allocations to the Emerging Markets asset 
class, providing us with high-quality resilient assets  
to manage, and therefore we experienced relatively 
limited impact from the market weakness at the end 
of the year. Understandably in our view, some clients 
saw this re-pricing of assets as an investment 
opportunity and increased allocations accordingly. 
T o target particularly the third-party intermediary 
business, the Group established and expanded  
a range of open-ended fund conduits in late 2010  
and through 201 1, in the US and Europe, which over 
the course of the next financial year will establish 
three-year investment performance track records. 
This is of particular relevance to the US 40-Act 
mutual funds, which rely heavily on this factor to 
stimulate demand. Nonetheless, with a relatively 
small and focused distribution team, we are pleased 
to have raised AuM of nearly US$1 billion in the US 
intermediary market to date. We plan to modestly 
and steadily increase the headcount in our 
intermediary distribution teams to support growth  
in the 40-Act and SICAV funds as they reach their 
three-year milestones.
The distribution team’s headcount at the end of  
the period was 45 (30 June 2012: 41) and while we 
will invest further in distribution on a selective basis, 
headcount increases in the foreseeable future are 
unlikely to be as marked as in previous periods. The 
Group’s distribution priority is to continue to deliver 
diversified, profitable AuM growth onto its scalable 
operating platform. 
Local asset management
The third phase of the Group’s strategy seeks  
to benefit from the rapidly growing pools of 
investment capital within Emerging Markets, which 
are growing at rates far in excess of the equivalent, 
though today larger, pools of capital in the developed 
world. The traditional investor preference for 
deposit-based products, typically manufactured  
and distributed by banks, is being challenged as real 
interest rates have declined and regulators scrutinise 
the services provided by the incumbents. There  
is a clear opportunity for independent managers  
such as Ashmore to offer credible and attractive 
investment opportunities to domestic Emerging 
Markets investors. 
During the year we established businesses in 
Indonesia and China. The subsidiary operation in 
Jakarta, Indonesia was established in July 2012 and 
launched three funds in the second half of the financial 
year: two equity funds (all-cap and small-cap) and a 
fixed income fund. The Group’s strategy is to combine 
local talent with Ashmore’ s global asset management 
expertise; this approach will enable us to grow a 
leading business in the Indonesian asset management 
market, and in support of this ambition the Group  
has committed seed capital to the three funds.
In China, we acquired the maximum permitted 49% 
stake in a Shanghai-based fund management joint 
venture with Central China Securities Co. (CCSC), 
and we launched two equity-related funds towards 
the year end.
T oday we manage approximately US$1 billion  
in our local Emerging Markets businesses and we 
aim to grow this substantially in the coming years,  
as previously high barriers to entry are broken down 
and the merits of allocating to an independent 
manager with a strong investment pedigree become 
increasingly apparent. The Group has an ongoing 
focus to develop the scale of existing domestic 
businesses and also envisages supplementing  
this growth with opportunities in further markets 
over time.
Seed capital
The ability to seed funds is an important competitive 
advantage for Ashmore, as it supports both entry into 
new markets and the development of new product 
structures and distribution channels, such as the  
US 40-Act funds, and can be considered to underpin 
future AuM growth. During the second half of the 
year the Group committed seed capital to support 
the launch of three funds in Indonesia. Other seed 
capital investments made during the period enabled 
the launch of investment grade blended debt funds 
as well as providing greater scale to enhance the 
distribution potential of several equity funds on the 
SICAV platform. 
The seed capital programme is actively managed, 
has inherent value with funds recycled back into 
cash when appropriate, and is subject to strict 
monitoring by the Board within a framework of set 
limits. Its scale has grown materially, nearly tripling 
from £61 .0 million invested three years ago to  
£170.6 million at 30 June 2013; during the financial 
year, £149.0 million was invested in 15 different 
funds and £129.9 million was recycled from 
investments previously made in a similar number  
of funds. While not its primary purpose, the active 
management of seed capital has generated profits 
for shareholders. The accounting treatment for seed 
capital is explained fully in the notes to the accounts, 
but for clarity the aggregate income statement 
contribution from seed capital-related activity was 
£17 .2 million (FY2011/12: £1 .7 million).
People and culture
The Group’s headcount has increased to 291 at the 
end of the year (30 June 2012: 257) reflecting further 
investment in support functions and the Group’s local 
fund management businesses.
Chief Executive Officer’s report continued
8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The commitment, expertise and motivation of 
colleagues across the Group were manifest in  
the ability to source, invest and control the strong 
asset flows that Ashmore generated during the year. 
I should like to thank everyone for their tremendous 
effort over the past year, and I am confident that  
as a team we will continue to deliver for our clients 
and shareholders during the current financial year 
and beyond.
Outlook
The fundamental Emerging Markets story  
remains strong and resilient, and is represented  
by the established and powerful GDP per capita 
convergence trend. While Emerging Markets GDP 
per capita has grown rapidly, in absolute terms it  
is still only comparable to Developed Markets in  
1980, with many economies at a far earlier stage of 
development. Across Emerging Markets, political and 
fiscal accountability is leading to improved economic 
stability, and capital markets and domestic pools of 
capital continue to deepen. As a consequence, the 
balance of world economic power is shifting in favour 
of Emerging Markets, such that it is increasingly 
difficult for investors to justify ignoring the asset class 
or to persist with a profoundly underweight position.
The factors behind this positive long-term view 
should not be confused with the noise that arises 
from the inevitable, but shorter-lived, volatility 
associated with the business cycle. In recent 
months, the cyclical slowdown in certain Emerging 
Markets has been extrapolated by the market  
into something abysmal; and at the same time, 
expectations of a sustained and inflation-less  
US economic recovery have increased, influenced  
by the Federal Reserve’s signal in May of imminent  
QE tapering. Our expectation is that both of these 
projections will be wrong. 
Developed markets remain structurally challenged. 
Their immense indebtedness will dampen economic 
recovery and will have to be addressed in due course 
through inflation and currency devaluation, with the 
US furthest down this path, albeit still with total 
public and private sector debt in excess of 400% 
of GDP .
In contrast, the ability of Emerging Markets  
to withstand cyclical and external stresses has 
improved dramatically over the past two decades. 
They have on average one-tenth the leverage of the 
US economy; the debt they have is overwhelmingly 
in local currency and owned by domestic institutions; 
they operate with increasingly orthodox and effective 
inflation policies; they control 80% of the world’s 
foreign exchange reserves; and where it occurs, 
currency depreciation restores competitiveness.
Y et inefficiencies, misconceptions and prejudices  
still abound. Developments in one country or region 
are often extrapolated across the Emerging Markets 
asset class. The price volatility induced by these 
myopic swings in sentiment should not be mistaken 
for higher risk; economic fundamentals ultimately 
reassert themselves. Emerging Markets are not 
homogeneous, and the presence of idiosyncratic 
risks and rewards across more than 65 countries 
provides tremendous opportunities for a specialist, 
active investment manager.
Dedicated long-term investors recognise these 
characteristics of the Emerging Markets asset class, 
and can take advantage of the asset re-pricing that 
results from technical factors rather than a change  
in fundamentals. Demand for Emerging Markets 
themes with relatively low correlation to the  
US treasury market will continue: equities, local 
currency assets, blended debt and shorter duration, 
higher yielding corporate debt offer attractive 
prospective returns. 
The market volatility of recent months should  
not mask the fact that the Emerging Markets 
opportunity is undiminished, and one that Ashmore 
purposefully seeks to capture on behalf of clients. 
The Group’s investment experience over more  
than two decades is a powerful tool in this regard, 
and our long-term investment experience is strong. 
However, we are not complacent; we will continue  
to strive to generate outperformance for our clients, 
and to deliver profitable growth for our shareholders.
Mark Coombs
Chief Executive Officer
9
Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
