 Chairman’s statement
A YEAR OF SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS
Market conditions were buoyant for most of  
the year, though in the last months there was  
a sharp and largely indiscriminate sell-off in risk 
assets across most of the Emerging Markets,  
largely caused by concerns over the timing of the 
withdrawal of quantitative easing by the US Federal 
Reserve. Ashmore’s specialist knowledge and active 
investment management style come to the fore  
in such difficult periods. 
Overall the Group has had a successful year  
with strong growth in assets under management,  
up by 22% to stand at US$77 .4 billion, coming from 
both new and existing clients, and is a direct result  
of the investment we have made in our distribution 
activities. We have also continued to build our 
domestic asset management presence within 
Emerging Markets, establishing offices in Indonesia 
and in China.
The Group’s financial performance was solid. 
Profitability was maintained at an industry-leading 
level, with an EBITDA margin of 71%. Profit before 
tax increased 6% to £257 .6 million and diluted 
earnings per share rose 1 1% to 28.69p.
Recognising the financial performance achieved 
during the year, and the Board’s confidence in future 
growth, the Directors are recommending a final 
dividend of 11 .75p per share for the year ended  
30 June 2013, which, subject to shareholders’ 
approval, will be paid on 6 December, to those 
shareholders on the register on 8 November.  
The Board intends to pay a progressive dividend  
over time, taking into consideration factors such  
as prospects for the Group’s earnings, demands  
on the Group’s financial resources, and the markets  
in which the Group operates.
Corporate governance
The Board considers corporate governance  
matters and adherence to codes of best practice  
to be of upmost importance. As Chairman of the 
Board, I believe that it has operated effectively 
through the year and that its role and its 
composition are well defined, appropriate and 
support the long-term development of the Group. 
As a unitary Board, one of our principal tasks  
is to ensure that our membership has the right  
skills and knowledge base relevant to our business, 
and to plan for succession, as existing directors 
come to the end of their tenures. These issues  
are a regular topic of discussion during the Board 
evaluation process, and where we have a specific 
vacancy to fill or where we have decided to add 
further to the Board, the Nominations Committee 
will engage an independent search consultant,  
with no connection to the Group, to assist us  
in this process.
Jonathan Asquith retired at the Group’s AGM  
in October and I should like to thank him for the 
contribution he made to the Board over four years.  
In February the Group announced the appointment 
to the Board of two Non-executive Directors:  
Dame Anne Pringle DCMG, and Charles Outhwaite. 
Dame Anne has considerable and valuable 
experience as a diplomat with the Foreign and 
Commonwealth Office, focusing in particular  
on the EU, Russia and Eastern Europe, including  
serving as Ambassador to the Russian Federation 
from 2008 to 201 1 . Charles has over 25 years of 
experience in corporate finance, with a particular 
focus on financial services. He is currently a senior 
advisor to Evercore Partners. 
Solid performance and resilience in the face of tougher 
market conditions towards the end of the year
3
Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Both the new Directors have undertaken a full 
induction programme, with the support of the  
Board and senior management, to familiarise them 
with their duties and responsibilities and all relevant 
aspects of the Group’s business. In due course they 
will be appointed to Board committees to suit their 
particular experience and expertise.
Good business momentum as a result of prior investment, 
and an enhanced Board to support future growth.
The Board now comprises eight members  
of whom six are non-executive and two are female;  
I am therefore pleased to report that the Board 
complies with the best practice recommendations  
of the Davies Report in respect of its composition.  
The Nominations Committee considers diversity, 
including the balance of skills, experience, gender 
and nationality amongst many other factors when 
reviewing the appointment of new Directors, but 
does not consider it appropriate to establish quotas 
or targets in this regard. Furthermore, and consistent 
with the emphasis the Board places on maintaining 
high standards of corporate governance, I am 
delighted that in May this year the Group became  
a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible 
Investment. A more detailed report on corporate 
governance is provided on pages 40 to 46.
Ashmore’s investment processes, distribution 
platform and operational infrastructure are well 
placed to cope with the prevailing uncertain market 
conditions. Notwithstanding the accomplishments  
of the year, there remains much to do, to build  
out the Group’s access to capital and investment 
opportunities around the world, and the Group  
faces this task with confidence.
The Board recognises and is grateful for the  
hard work and commitment of everyone across  
the Group’s operations over the past year.
Michael Benson
Chairman
Chairman’s statement continued
4 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
