 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that group 
revenue increased by 5% to £13.4bn 
and adjusted operating profit of 
£1,118m was 3% higher than last year.
AB Sugar made a number of fundamental 
structural changes this year which will 
lead to a higher and more sustainable 
profit. Specifically, all of its operations 
delivered substantial cost reductions 
through performance improvement and 
capital investment; the sale of its cane 
sugar operations in south China will 
improve margins; and the move to  
full ownership will accelerate Illovo’s 
commercial development and profit 
growth. There has also been an 
emphasis this year on working closely 
with growers, key members of our 
supply chain, to maximise efficiency 
and underpin our growth aspirations.
As a responsible business, AB Sugar 
contributes actively to the debate 
concerning the role that sugar can play  
as part of a healthy balanced diet with 
its Making Sense of Sugar campaign. 
We believe it is important to recognise 
that there is no single response to 
tackling obesity. We are committed 
to playing our part in finding solutions 
that heighten people’s awareness 
of the calories they are consuming, 
whether in sugars or other food 
ingredients, through a combination of 
educational and regulatory measures.
Ingredients achieved a strong profit 
and margin increase driven by a further 
recovery in AB Mauri, our yeast and 
bakery ingredients business. AB Agri 
delivered a resilient performance with 
its strategy of expanding the value 
adding elements of its business, 
particularly internationally. Grocery 
achieved revenue growth against a 
background of food commodity price 
deflation and margin increased again 
with an improvement in George Weston 
Foods in Australia, particularly at the 
Don KRC meat business which 
generated a profit.
The strong expansion of Primark’s 
selling space continued this year and 
a further 1.3 million sq ft is scheduled 
for next year. We were encouraged 
by the trading at our first store in  
Italy and by our five stores in the US.  
We now have a better understanding 
of what appeals to our American 
customers and are gaining valuable 
insights into store location. This was 
This has been a year of progress 
for all of our businesses.”
GEORGE WESTON, CHIEF EXECUTIVE
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
6 OUR BROAD GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT
Please note, the above map correctly reflects the group’s countries of operation and has been amended from that 
shown in the printed version of the Annual Report that was distributed to shareholders, which included a printing error.
With the diversity of 
our operations, our 
broad geographical 
footprint and a strong 
balance sheet, we 
are well placed to 
take advantage 
of the opportunity 
presented by 
the weakness 
of sterling.”
The referendum on the UK’s continued 
membership of the EU has created  
some short-term uncertainties including  
a decline in the value of sterling. 
However, changes in legislation and 
trade agreements, particularly in the 
areas of trade tariffs and UK agricultural 
policy have the potential to benefit the 
group, and the current level of sterling 
offers UK food producers significant 
opportunities to replace imported  
food and build export markets. We are 
therefore engaging with a number of  
UK Government departments to ensure 
that the full range of opportunities and 
risks, as they affect ABF, are recognised.
George Weston
Chief Executive
a challenging year for clothing retailers 
with market value declines seen in 
most countries in Europe. It is therefore 
a testament to the strength of Primark’s 
customer offering that it increased its 
share in all of its major markets. The 
devaluation of the euro against the US 
dollar in 2015 put pressure on margins 
in this financial year and sterling’s recent 
devaluation against the US dollar will 
have an impact in the coming year. 
Primark’s commitment to maintaining 
its leadership position in the value 
sector of the clothing market has 
been our priority and I am pleased 
with the efforts of our buyers to 
significantly limit the profit impact of  
euro weakness in the financial year.
Implications of the EU referendum
ABF is an international business with 
diverse interests across 50 countries 
and has a business model that,  
wherever possible, aligns food 
production with the end markets for  
its products. Primark operates discrete 
supply chains for its stores in each 
of the UK, US and eurozone and 
as a group we undertake relatively 
little cross-border trading between 
the UK and the rest of the EU.
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
7
