 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
This has been a year of progress for 
the group with revenues 5% higher 
than last year, adjusted operating 
profit ahead by 3% and earnings 
per share up by 5% to 106.2p. Gross 
investment was significant this year 
at just over £1bn which included 
capital expenditure increases both 
for Primark and the food businesses 
and the £247m consideration to 
acquire the minority shareholdings 
in Illovo Sugar Limited. This was 
funded by another strong cash flow 
and was the fifth consecutive year of 
operating cash generated in excess 
of £1bn. Although net debt at the 
year end was higher than last year, 
this was after the buyout of the 
Illovo minorities and a £53m 
increase attributable to the effect 
of translating foreign currency 
denominated net debt at weaker 
sterling exchange rates.
One of our group’s great virtues is 
the way that it embraces change so 
positively and this year has provided 
plenty of opportunity for our businesses 
to demonstrate this. Whether responding 
to challenging financial markets; 
integrating acquired businesses; disposing 
of businesses; dealing with the effects 
of unusual weather on our supply chains 
or retail demand; advancing technology 
or changing legislation, our people 
have responded with enthusiasm.
The sugar industry has seen much 
change, not least in Europe as it has 
prepared for regime reform in 2017. 
However, 2016 will be seen as 
something of a turning point for 
AB Sugar. The profit decline of recent 
years has been arrested as EU and world 
sugar prices turned upwards and our 
performance improvement programme, 
which had already yielded substantial 
benefits, delivered further cost 
reduction and efficiency gains which 
have underpinned our credentials as 
a low-cost producer. Moving to full 
ownership of Illovo, at a time when 
increasing populations and rising 
incomes are driving growth in the African 
sugar market, is expected to accelerate 
its performance improvement and 
commercial development. We have also 
announced the sale of our south China 
cane sugar operations with completion 
expected later in this calendar year. We 
first entered the Chinese sugar market 
in 1995 and since then have substantially 
improved agricultural productivity, factory 
extraction and sugar yields. However, 
further improvements are likely to be 
driven by industry consolidation and 
we believe that other parties are better 
placed to take the business forward. 
Our beet sugar business in north 
east China is at an earlier stage in its 
development and we believe we are  
well positioned to take advantage of 
the opportunities this presents.
Cost reduction was a driver of the 
continued recovery of the yeast and 
bakery ingredients business which 
was the major contributor to the 22% 
growth in adjusted operating profit 
from Ingredients this year. Grocery 
and Agriculture both achieved further 
margin improvement despite the 
challenges for revenue growth 
presented by commodity price deflation. 
Since the year end we have announced 
the sale of ACH’s herbs and spices 
business in North America with 
completion expected shortly. Whilst 
this has been a good investment over 
the years, it is a complex operation which 
occupies a niche position in its market 
and we believe its further development 
will best be achieved through consolidation 
with another party.
Primark’s development continued 
apace with a further 1.2 million sq ft 
of selling space opened during the year. 
Ten years ago Primark opened its first 
store in Spain – the first time that it 
had ventured outside the UK and 
Ireland. Since then it has expanded 
into a further eight countries and has 
achieved a fivefold increase in retail 
selling space. This pace of development 
is set to continue with an extensive 
schedule of new store openings planned 
for 2016/17. That new store openings 
are still greeted with enthusiasm by our 
customers says much for the capability 
of our buyers and merchandisers who 
ensure that Primark remains at the 
CHARLES SINCLAIR, CHAIRMAN
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
4 forefront of fashion, but is also the result 
of our store designers making Primark 
an attractive and fun place to shop.
Corporate responsibility
Having provided an update on corporate 
responsibility in each of the last two 
years we have, today, published a full 
report for this year. The priorities of our 
businesses remain largely unchanged 
with a continued challenge to reduce the 
environmental footprint of our operations 
and improve the safety of our sites. 
We remain committed to being a 
good neighbour and supporting the 
communities where we operate. For 
the first time, we have sought to quantify 
our social impact in order to show the 
benefits of our collective endeavour 
on the lives of our people, suppliers, 
neighbours and customers. A copy of 
the report is available for download at 
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility.
The fifth consecutive 
year of operating 
cash generated in 
excess of £1bn.”
Remuneration
As noted in the Remuneration report 
last year, we have undertaken a 
complete review of the group’s incentive 
arrangements during the course of this 
year and a number of changes are 
proposed to improve alignment with 
shareholder interests.
The board
Tim Clarke and Javier Ferrán have 
each completed more than nine years’ 
service as directors of the Company and, 
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, the rest of the board 
must now confirm their independence 
annually. This having been done, we 
are delighted that both Tim and Javier 
have agreed to continue as members 
of the board and Tim will continue as 
the Senior Independent Director.
Peter Smith retired as a non-executive 
director of the Company in April having 
served nine years as a member of the 
board. I would like to thank Peter for the 
significant contribution he made during 
his tenure as a director and chairman 
of the Audit committee.
In April we welcomed Richard Reid to 
the board as a non-executive director 
and chairman of the Audit committee. 
Richard was formerly a partner at 
KPMG LLP, having joined the firm in 
1980. From 2008 he served as London 
Chairman until he retired from the firm 
in September 2015.
Employees
Whenever I visit our operations around 
the world I am regularly reminded of the 
enthusiasm with which our employees 
undertake their responsibilities, their 
commitment to improving performance 
and their willingness to embrace 
change. I would like to thank them for 
their achievements this year which 
contributed greatly to the group’s 
continuing success.
Dividends
I am pleased to report that a final 
dividend of 26.45p is proposed, to be 
paid on 13 January 2017 to shareholders 
on the register on 16 December 2016. 
Together with the interim dividend 
of 10.3p paid on 1 July 2016, this will 
make a total of 36.75p for the year, 
an increase of 5%.
Outlook
We expect the expansion of Primark’s 
selling space to continue in all of its 
major markets. AB Sugar will benefit 
substantially from this year’s increase 
in sugar prices and from reductions 
in its cost base. Grocery, Ingredients 
and Agriculture are expected to make 
further progress.
Assuming a continuation of current 
exchange rates, and following the 
significant devaluation of sterling, 
we expect group earnings to benefit 
from the translation of overseas profits. 
However, as Primark buys much of its 
merchandise in US dollars and sells 
in the UK in sterling, there will be an 
adverse effect, in the year, on its 
UK margins.
Taking all of these factors into account, 
at this early stage, we expect progress 
in adjusted operating profit and adjusted 
earnings for the group for the coming year.
Charles Sinclair
Chairman
www.abf.co.uk/responsibility
Associated British Foods plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic report
5
