 ATRIUM UNDERWRITING PLC
Chairman’s Statement
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
2 
I am very pleased to announce record profits for 2006 reflecting the 
quality of Atrium’s underwriting, the strong market conditions of 
2005 and 2006, the absence of catastrophe losses and generally 
benign claims experience last year. Profit before tax is £44.7m 
(2005 – £10.0m) with profit after tax of £32.2m (2005 – £7.0m) 
representing 63.7p earnings per share (2005 – 14.0p). I am also 
delighted to report that these strong earnings have enabled us  
to strengthen our dividend policy. Atrium remains committed  
to providing attractive returns to its shareholders and hence the 
Board has decided to increase the full year dividend to 15p across 
the cycle.  
Strong performance in 2006 
Our financial performance in 2006 was strong across all business 
segments. Our two managed syndicates have both made significant 
contributions to these profits generating combined ratios that are 
among the best in the sector. Our participation in non-managed 
syndicates has also produced some excellent returns and a number 
of syndicates have benefited from earlier year reserve releases. Our 
investment returns have picked up on the back of higher interest 
rates for both Sterling and US dollars and larger investment funds. 
The results have, however, been adversely affected by the 
weakening of the US dollar during the year. 
Increased Dividend 
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 13p to be paid on  
4 July 2007 to shareholders on the register at close of business on  
1 June 2007, giving a total dividend in respect of the year ended  
31 December 2006 of 15p (2005: 10p). This represents 24% of 
2006 earnings and is a 50% increase over 2005. 
Atrium continues to focus on return on equity as a measure of 
success and a key element of this is a clear focus on the level  
of capital retained in the business. The excellent 2006 result has 
strengthened our balance sheet, and raises the prospect of surplus 
capital within the business. Steve Cook covers our strategy in 
relation to capital management in more detail in his report. 
Changes to the Board 
During 2006 Raymond Dumas and Philip Swatman joined the  
Board of Atrium as on- xecutive irectors. I am delighted that  
we attracted such high calibre individuals to our Board. Raymond, 
well known in the Lloyd’s market, has over 25 years of experience 
in the insurance industry and currently serves on the Board of 
Managing Agency Partners, the managing agent of Syndicate  
2791 in which the Group participates. Philip, who is a Vice 
Chairman at Rothschild, brings with him significant investment 
banking and corporate finance experience, and now chairs our 
George Rivaz, who had been with the Group since July 2003 
stepped down at last year’s AGM to pursue his role as co-president 
of Ariel Holdings. I would like to thank George on behalf of the 
Group for his sterling efforts in his time with us.  
It is with some sadness that we announce that our Group Finance 
Director, Simon Curtis, intends to step down from his position, and 
the Board, in order to take a career break. Simon has been a very 
capable Finance Director and a valuable member of the Board. 
During his seven years at Atrium, he has led us through some 
challenging times, including the shift to annual accounting as well 
as the more recent transition to IFRS reporting standards. We will 
report progress in the search for his successor at our AGM at the 
end of June. 
Conclusion 
2006 has not only been a year of record profits it has also  
been a year of progress at Atrium. We remain committed to the 
development of our business with a strong focus on profitability 
and long term returns to shareholders across the insurance cycle. 
We believe that we are currently on a down slope in the insurance 
cycle but we see the weakening conditions as a challenge and  
an opportunity for Atrium to demonstrate once more its ability  
to outperform the Lloyd’s market and the non-life insurance 
industry generally. 
 
James Joll 
Chairman 
19 April 2007
“2006 has not only been  
a year of record profits  
it has also been a year  
of progress at Atrium” 
Remuneration Committee. 
N E D
