  ATTRAQT Group PLC 
14 
 
CEO’s Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 
 
 
Introduction 
  
ATTRAQT continues to deliver strong operational and financial progress. We have grown our client base in both 
the UK and North America, reaching out to larger multi-national retailers as evidenced by our increasing average 
new client deal value and gross margin. 
 
Business model 
 
The Group’s business model is based on a recurring monthly service fee plus a one-off set-up fee and additional 
follow-on project fees. Clients contract up for a minimum of 12 months, with some larger clients signing up for a 
longer period of two years. 
 
The current sales model is based on direct sales via a dedicated sales team. Due to the importance of the 
functionality provided by the Platform to our clients, client retention is strong with most clients automatically 
renewing at the end of the contractual term.  
 
Growth strategy 
 
The Group’s objective is to become the global leader in online visual merchandising. 
 
Throughout the year ATTRAQT has continued to build on its business plan, founded on four key elements: 
 
1) Invest in sales and marketing to grow client base and recurring revenue; 
2) Expand the Group’s production capacity to keep pace with accelerating sales; 
3) Develop strategic partnerships – both sales and technology – to accelerate sales growth and extend our 
product offering; and 
4) Extend the capabilities of the platform through continued investment in research and development, 
adding new features and creating new products to initiate new revenue streams. 
 
Review of Sales & Operations 
 
ATTRAQT continues to deliver strong operational results, with 42 deals during the year, of which 31 were new 
clients, bringing the total to 121 (FY15: 110). The Company also delivered 37 new customer implementations, 
bringing the total number of live client sites to 185 (FY15: 154). 
 
The Group experienced an outage at its data centre during H1, which was quickly addressed and subsequently 
transitioned to a new data centre provider. There was an increase in customer attrition of nine clients directly as a 
result of the outage. 
 
A key focus for ATTRAQT remains the development of the North American business. Progress has been 
encouraging as demonstrated by client wins in the region, including Eddie Bauer and Volcom. Given the size of the 
market we believe there are still a significant number of opportunities available to expand ATTRAQT’s footprint in 
the region. 
 
The Group maintained investment in upgrading the Platform, with seven new core code releases in the period 
including by example: 
 Hypercaching: Hypercaching gives ATTRAQT the option to deploy its platform with an extra layer where 
product details are cached at the rules engine level. This means that the merchandising database and search 
engine do less work and only have to deliver product ID results to the hypercache layer once. The product 
cache layer adds all the product information to the response that goes to the client rather than it having to be 
retrieved from the search and merchandising database. The product ordering (balance factors) and guided 
navigation also come from the product cache layer. This provides the platform with significant scale and 
performance advantage. 
 Built-in AB Testing: Allows the client to have ATTRAQT automatically split traffic between multiple 
merchandising rules and report on comparative conversion rates of each test. 
   ATTRAQT Group PLC 
15 
 
CEO’s Statement 
for the year ended 31 December 2016 (continued) 
 
 Rule Synchronisation: Functionality to copy merchandising rules so clients with multiple instances/regions 
save time setting up rules that they want to be the same across regions.  
Financial Review 
 
Total revenue increased by 22.6 percent to £3.6m (FY15: £2.9m), as new customers were added and existing 
customers commissioned additional sites. The recurring monthly revenue from live clients rose 21.7 percent from 
£2.7m to £3.2m, now representing 90 percent (FY15: 91 percent) of total Group revenue. The Exit Rate (year-end 
contracted annualised billing) for 2016 was up 15% percent to £3.9m.  
 
The Group showed good management of costs to deliver recorded losses before tax and at EBITDA level in line 
with management expectations. Losses before tax increased to £1.9m (FY15: £0.7m) and adjusted EBITDA losses 
for the year increased to £1.6m (FY15: £0.2m). The planned investment of the proceeds of the 2015 fundraising in 
expanding sales, marketing and production lead to the EBITDA losses increasing in the short-term, reflecting 
investment in the Group’s operational expansion; however, the rate of growth is expected to accelerate as a result, 
with a return to EBITDA profitability in the mid-term. 
 
ATTRAQT continues to invest in technical enhancements to the existing product offerings and in new products. 
Some of this cost is capitalised and some is absorbed as part of the operating costs of the business. 
 
Outlook 
 
ATTRAQT has seen another year of sustained growth of revenues and client base in the UK and North America, 
whilst at the same time increasing gross margin. We have signed 42 new deals in the period, including several 
marquee retailers and have delivered a 22 percent increase in revenue for the year. 
  
Our objective is to deliver strong profitable growth and become the technology partner of choice for leading online 
retailers. With an exit rate of £3.9m, good growth in recurring revenue and a strong sales pipeline for H1 2017, we 
are confident in the continued success of ATTRAQT for 2017 and the foreseeable future. 
 
André Brown 
Chief Executive Officer 
3 March 2017 
 
 
 
  
