 ATRIUM UNDERWRITING PLC
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement 
 
 
3
Results 
These record results are a testament to our people and business 
model. Helped by the absence of natural catastrophes during 2006, 
our clear focus on generating the best possible underwriting profits 
from the prevailing market conditions, using the most efficient 
capital structure, has generated our 38% return on equity, giving  
a five year average return of 27%. Our underwriting portfolio for 
2006 was diverse and well balanced but focused on maximising 
the opportunities that arose following the 2005 hurricane season. 
Strategy 
Atrium remains focused on bottom line profitability and return on 
equity. We have a clear and successful organic growth strategy, 
focused on expanding our areas of expertise, building on our 
strengths, attracting the best people in the industry and developing 
new opportunities. We believe in growth but only at the right time. 
Our size enables us to be fast and nimble in responding to rapidly 
changing market conditions. Our managed syndicates grew 
threefold post September 11 into a rapidly hardening market. They 
have reduced written premium over the last two years consistent 
with our view that terms and conditions are no longer as strong as 
in 2003 and 2004. Our underwriting portfolio has also reflected this 
with our 2007 capacity reduced from its 2004 peak.  
Atrium has a strong track record of cycle management and has 
every intention of continuing this philosophy. As the market 
softens, our experienced teams scale back where necessary and 
appropriate. Our emphasis has shifted to those classes we believe 
exhibit the best rates, terms and conditions and to other ways of 
developing our insurance business. We continue to recruit high 
quality underwriters who share our underwriting values.  
In 2007 we launched the Atrium Space Insurance Consortium, 
managed by a newly authorised UK coverholder company wholly 
owned by the Atrium Group. The consortium is underwritten by 
David Wade, a leading satellite specialist, supported by 
underwriters and engineers with many years experience. It has 
$22m of capacity on any one launch or in-orbit satellite and is 
targeting $50m of premium income in 2007. The consortium 
protects and strengthens our managed syndicates’ access to the 
growing space market and, via our UK coverholder company, 
provides the potential for an attractive contribution to Group 
earnings for 2007 onwards.  
Capital management 
We keep our capital requirements under constant review since  
the cyclical nature of our business is such that our capital needs  
will vary over time. There are many factors that come into this 
assessment but with return on equity as a key performance 
indicator for the Group we always aim to ensure that we do not 
carry surplus capital. Recent strong results have strengthened our 
balance sheet and available capital.  
It is the Board’s intention to make a significant distribution  
of capital to shareholders later this year. This is subject to the 
expected release of our cash currently held as Funds at Lloyd’s  
and will follow the finalisation of our underwriting plans and  
capital requirements for 2008, in November of this year. 
Trading conditions and outlook 
Trading conditions remain good in most classes of business written 
by Atrium but some are seeing increasing signs of competitive 
pressure. Atrium continues to underwrite a diverse book of 
insurance business. However, the performance of many of the 
classes in which we operate is tied in with the frequency and 
severity of catastrophe events. We have benefited from the 
absence of such events in 2006 but cannot rely on a repeat of this 
for 2007. Nevertheless, based upon our underwriting experience 
and knowledge of the market we have increased our risk appetite 
for 2006 and 2007. Our portfolio structure is focused on business 
classes that are well rated and we continue to believe that the 
potential rewards from catastrophe exposed business compensate 
for the related risks. 
We began 2007 with net unearned premium of £58.2m, premium 
which was written in attractive underwriting conditions and which 
has the potential to generate further strong underwriting profits. 
With our managed syndicates continuing their excellent track 
records and the three remaining non-managed syndicate 
participations providing access to quality underwriting of 
predominantly reinsurance risks, we are well positioned for  
the future. Finally, thanks once more to all our people whose 
dedication and hard work has produced these excellent results. 
 
Steve Cook 
Chief Executive Officer 
19 April 2007
“Atrium has a strong track 
record of cycle management 
and has every intention of 
continuing this philosophy“ 
