 Strategic Report
Avacta is a UK biotechnology company that 
is developing biotherapeutics and reagents 
based on its proprietary Affimer technology – 
an engineered alternative to antibodies. 
Since inception in 2006 Avacta’s mission has been to 
develop products and services for the life sciences 
and healthcare markets. Following the acquisition of 
the Affimer technology intellectual property from the 
University of Leeds and others in 2012 the Company 
has focused on developing and commercialising this 
technology.
The Company is committed to providing high-quality 
Affimer reagents for licensing into third-party research 
and diagnostic products, and to creating new Affimer 
medicines for partnering with large pharma.
The Company comprises around 90 employees based 
at two sites in Wetherby and Cambridge that have 
recently been fitted out to create state-of-the-art 
laboratory facilities. 
Affimer technology
An Affimer molecule is a small protein that is capable 
of binding to a target molecule (such as another 
protein, a peptide or a small molecule) in the same 
way that an antibody does. This ability to capture or 
bind a target molecule can then be used to detect 
or quantify it in a diagnostic test or research assay, 
or to enrich or purify it from a complex mixture, 
for example. Additionally, if the target is involved in 
a disease pathway and the binding by the Affimer 
molecule activates, alters or blocks its function, then 
there is potential for the Affimer molecule to provide 
therapeutic benefit as a drug. 
Antibodies are proteins that have evolved to bind to 
a target in order to stimulate an immune response in 
vivo. Over several decades this property of antibodies 
has been harnessed to develop thousands of 
reagents for laboratory assays and diagnostic  
tests, and one third of all drugs in development  
are now antibodies. 
This enormous success of antibodies is despite 
some significant limitations: 
• antibodies are often not specific to the target and 
cross-react with other targets causing uncertainty 
in the results that are obtained, for example, in a 
diagnostic test; 
• antibodies are large proteins with complex 
structures, including special internal bonds and 
external chemical modifications that are required for 
correct function, making many of them challenging 
and costly to manufacture and resulting in batch-to- 
batch variability; 
• antibodies are often generated by immunising 
an animal and purifying the antibodies that are 
produced by the immune response of the animal 
from its blood, which means that the time required 
to develop a new, high quality antibody can be 
many months and that the type of target to which 
an antibody can be raised is limited to those that 
are not toxic and cause an immune response; many 
important and commercially valuable targets do not 
fit these criteria;
• the large size of antibodies is a disadvantage in 
some applications in which, for example, tissue 
penetration is important, or a high density of 
antibodies on a sensor surface is required; and
• many applications require the antibody to be 
modified to carry a payload or signaling tag and 
their large size and complex structure makes  
these modifications more challenging.
In contrast, the small size and simple structure 
of Affimer molecules means that they are easy to 
manufacture with simple, low-cost processes that  
are reliable in their batch-to-batch consistency.  
Their simplicity also means that modifying an Affimer 
molecule for a particular application is easily carried 
out with simple biochemistry. New Affimer molecules 
Avacta’s mission is to develop 
products and services for the life 
sciences and healthcare markets
12 “We have seen solid performance in all areas  
of Affimer technology development, continuing 
the transformational progress made in 2015.  
We have made good technical progress and are 
in a strong position having laid the technical and 
commercial foundations and we are well funded 
to deliver on our strategies.”
Alastair Smith, Chief Executive Officer
13
Avacta Annual Report and Accounts          2016 Strategic Report
are generated by screening through a pre-existing 
large library of approximately ten billion Affimer 
molecules to identify those that bind to the target 
of interest. This utilises an industry standard in vitro 
process which does not use animals and therefore 
it is quick, taking a matter of weeks, and circumvents 
some limitations arising from the nature of the target. 
This screening process can also be finely controlled to 
maximise the specificity and optimise other properties 
of the Affimer molecules that are pulled out of the 
library for a particular application. Affimer molecules 
are ten times smaller than antibodies and very stable, 
being resistant to extremes of pH and temperature. 
This makes them better suited to some applications 
where harsh conditions are experienced or where 
the small size leads to better sample penetration or 
a higher density of binding sites on a surface. Their 
small size and ease with which they can be modified 
means that the amount of time a therapeutic Affimer 
molecule stays in the blood stream can be tailored to 
suit different therapeutics regimes.
Despite the limitations outlined above, antibodies 
have become the dominant technology in markets 
worth in excess of $100 billion annually. The 
opportunity therefore, for an alternative such as 
Affimer technology, is very large with the potential to 
generate near-term revenue from minimally regulated, 
low-risk life sciences research tools and diagnostics 
applications, as well as potentially generating much 
higher rewards from therapeutics but with associated 
greater development risk. 
Business model and strategy
Avacta is addressing both therapeutic and non-
therapeutic opportunities for Affimer technology. The 
Company is focused on building a profitable business 
through licensing of Affimer reagents to research tools 
and diagnostics developers to power their products, 
whilst developing a pipeline of Affimer therapeutic 
candidates for in-house development and partnering.
Ten times smaller than 
antibodies, Affimer molecules 
are very stable. Their size 
and the ease with which they 
can be modified means the 
amount of time they stay 
in the blood stream can 
be tailored to suit different 
therapeutics regimes.
14
