 Strategic Report
Providing powerful reagents  
for research and diagnostics
16 Non-therapeutic Affimer technology is being 
delivered through licensing to third-party research 
tools and diagnostic test developers.
17
Avacta Annual Report and Accounts          2016 Strategic Report
Bespoke solutions for research  
and diagnostics customers
Avacta is addressing the non-therapeutic 
opportunity for Affimer technology through 
licensing to third-party research tools and 
diagnostic test developers.
In this way the Company can focus on its strengths –  
generating high quality Affimer reagents for the 
customers’ applications – and maximise the reach 
of the technology in every application area without 
the need to build multiple routes to market. Near-
term revenues are being derived from fee-for-service 
generation of new Affimers for evaluation and product 
development by third parties, and longer-term royalties 
will be generated based on the third party sales of 
‘Affimer-powered’ products.
Market focus and competitive strengths
Affimer reagents can be developed for a very wide 
range of applications in many markets therefore 
market focus is critical in order to maximise the 
benefits of research and development (R&D) 
investment and business development effort. The 
Company has chosen areas of focus that combine 
the competitive strengths of Affimer technology with 
attractive market opportunities. 
In the near term the Company is concentrating in 
three areas: affinity separation, immunoassays and 
lateral flow diagnostics.
The Company is now working with a number of 
potential commercial partners in these markets to 
provide custom Affimer reagents which will undergo 
evaluation in their applications. Successful evaluations 
will lead to commercial licensing agreements and 
product development programmes which would be 
expected to take 12-24 months for the third party  
to complete. 
Affinity Separation 
The capturing of a target from a complex mixture 
in order to purify that target. For example, the 
purification of a clotting factor from whole blood, or  
a therapeutic protein from the output of a bioreactor. 
Market overview
• Estimated market size $500 million growing at 10% 
compound annual growth rate (CAGR).
• Concentrated market with a few major players for 
standard purification products: e.g. GE Healthcare 
(>50% market share), Pall Corp, ThermoFisher,  
EMD Millipore.
• Customised product opportunities beginning to 
emerge as bioprocessing becomes more bespoke.
• Small scale sample preparation for clinical 
diagnostics procedures.
Affimer technology competitive strengths 
• Good specificity allows for discrimination between 
protein complexes, different conformations and 
folding variants.
• Small Affimer molecule size has potential to 
increase column capacity due to higher packing 
density on surfaces.
• Affimer reagents can be tailored to withstand 
desired operating conditions.
• Short development time of Affimer reagents 
benefits custom product developments.
• Excellent stability (thermal and pH) of Affimer 
molecules leads to good product lifetimes.
• Batch-to-batch consistency and low cost of 
production of Affimer reagents.
• Reduction of use of animals meets growing 
regulatory pressures. 
18 19
Avacta Annual Report and Accounts          2016 Strategic Report
Immunoassays 
Very widely used biochemical tests that detect  
the presence of, or quantify, a target in a sample  
for research purposes or diagnostics.
Market overview
• Enzyme linked immunoassay (ELISA) is the 
prevailing assay format for protein quantitation.
• Estimated market size is over $500 million for 
research ELISAs (with R&D Systems the market 
leader) and over $3 billion for diagnostic ELISA  
tests (with a large number of both large and small  
‘in vitro immunodiagnostics’ providers).
• Most emerging protein quantification platforms 
use ‘sandwich assay formats’ (e.g. Luminex, MSD, 
Singulex) which requires pairs of antibodies that  
will both bind to the target simultaneously.
Affimer technology competitive strengths 
• Ability to identify Affimer pairs and/or 
complementary Affimer reagents to make a pair 
with an established antibody. 
• Small size of the Affimer reagents means higher 
density of capture Affimer which improves sensitivity.
• Better specificity means reduction in cross-reactivity 
and less interference in multiplex analysis.
• Short Affimer reagents development time means 
quicker assay development time and lower 
development cost.
• Batch-to-batch consistency and low cost of 
production of Affimer reagents.
• Reduction of use of animals meets growing 
regulatory pressures. 
Lateral Flow Diagnostics
A simple diagnostic test technology that uses an 
absorbent strip to draw the sample and reagents over 
lines of capture reagent to create a visual read-out 
(e.g. pregnancy test strips) in which a positive result is 
indicated by the appearance of two blue lines when a 
urine sample is applied at one end.
Market overview
• Estimated market size in the region of $5 billion 
growing at 7% CAGR.
• Broad market applications but largest market 
is clinical (>80%) including infectious disease, 
cardiovascular and toxicology.
• Alere (now part of Abbott) is the largest player 
(~30% market share).
• Opportunities for niche players to develop  
novel tests and/or improve existing tests.
• Outsourcing and contract manufacturing  
is prevalent.
Affimer technology competitive strengths 
• Ability to identify Affimer pairs and/or 
complementary Affimer reagents to make a pair 
with an established antibody. 
• High stability of Affimer reagents beneficial for  
field applications.
• Batch-to-batch consistency and low cost of 
production of Affimer reagents.
• Short Affimer reagents development time means 
quicker assay development time and lower 
development cost.
• Reduction of use of animals meets growing 
regulatory pressures. 
• Beneficial properties of Affimer molecules to 
improve manufacturing efficiency and shorten 
analysis time.
20
