 Chief Executive’s statement
Even in a culture  
that welcomes change  
like Auto Trader’s,  
this has been a truly  
landmark year.
Trevor Mather 
Chief Executive
7.5%
Growth in advert views
£1,384
ARPR up 10.5%
(2015: £1,252) Even in a culture that welcomes change 
like Auto Trader’s, this has been a truly 
landmark year. In our first year as a listed 
company, we have significantly increased 
both the consumer audience that visits 
our marketplace and their engagement 
on our sites. We have substantially 
increased the value we deliver to vehicle 
retailers and continued the transformation 
of the way in which we manage our 
customer relationships. Whilst doing 
this, we have delivered an outstanding 
performance, improving our revenue 
and Underlying operating profit to levels 
that exceeded initial expectations. 
Summary of operating performance
Our operating results reflect an excellent  
year for the business. Revenue growth of 
10% was achieved through the positive 
contribution of all three of our revenue 
streams: trade, consumer services and 
display advertising. 
Trade
In trade, we increased the value delivered  
to our customers through a greater number 
of cross platform visits, and higher levels  
of consumer engagement, resulting in 7 .5% 
growth in advert views – the equivalent of  
an extra six vehicles being viewed every 
second on the marketplace. 
Consumers spent over 676 million minutes  
a month on our site (March 2016) compared 
to 458 million a year previously. Our share  
of minutes spent on automotive digital 
classifieds rose to 85% (2015: 76%)
1
. 
Beyond the increased levels of response,  
we have further embedded the use of data 
driven products which aim to improve the 
day-to-day operational efficiency within our 
retailers’ businesses. Market conditions were 
buoyant, resulting in an increased number  
of transactions. This helped to increase the 
number of cars listed on our site as did a 
modest growth in average retailer forecourts 
to 13,514. Those contributing factors helped 
drive Average Revenue per Retailer (‘ARPR’) 
10.5% higher to £1,384 per month. 
Consumer services 
Growth in consumer services of 4% was 
pleasing in light of the increasingly competitive 
nature of this sector, aided by our motoring 
services products (offered to consumers at 
the point of purchase) which saw growth 
similar to the previous year. 
Display advertising
A strong display advertising performance 
continued the momentum from the  
previous year, with revenue up 23%. 
Improved relationships with agencies, 
combined with new, improved advertising 
formats, in particular homepage takeovers, 
were the main drivers of this growth.
Operating efficiencies
We seek to be as lean as possible and to 
enable our teams to be as productive as  
they can be, which generally requires fewer, 
but better paid people. This year we reduced 
our headcount (including contractors) from 
915 to 859. 
Our marketing spend grew to £15.7m – an 
increase of 2% above last year, well below 
our revenue growth of 10%. This moderate 
increase enabled us to drive all of our  
brand and audience initiatives, including the 
continuance of our 2015 brand-led campaign 
on TV, video on demand and online, and the 
introduction of a new marketing campaign 
focused on our online valuation tool, new 
part-exchange product and discovery search 
functionality (see overleaf for more details). 
Other costs and capital expenditure were  
in line with expectations.
Revenue growth, coupled with lower costs, 
delivered a 5 percentage points improvement 
in Underlying operating profit margin to 61%.
Our strategy
Our strategy is to provide the UK and Ireland’s 
leading digital automotive marketplace and 
help improve the process of buying and 
selling vehicles for consumers and retailers 
alike. Critical to this are a smooth online 
experience for consumers and the provision 
of data driven intelligence for vehicle retailers.
1 comScore MMX MP March 2016 data.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
15 Chief Executive’s statement continued
Investing in innovation
Over the past year we have continued to 
innovate, in particular through exposing the 
key insights from our massive data sources.
There are over 80,000 variations of make  
and model of cars available to buy in the  
UK. Even for confident buyers, this is a 
bewildering choice. To help consumers 
decide which car they want to buy, this year 
we introduced a new way of searching for 
vehicles – ‘discovery search’ – which allows  
a buyer to search for cars if they don’t know 
the make or model they want, e.g. by the 
number of seats, fuel type or on price alone. 
Additionally we now have over 700 expert 
reviews of vehicles (an increase of 20%), 
which have received over eight million page 
views this year, and over 45,000 owner 
reviews on site, helping consumers compare 
and choose. These innovations have 
improved the value we provide to consumers. 
Part-exchange is the most efficient way  
for retailers to acquire stock. Our research 
shows that 81% of consumers
2
 said they 
would be more likely to consider part-
exchange if they could get a trusted price 
online for their car before turning up at the 
dealership. In order for us to help our retailers 
win in the marketplace and ultimately make 
the industry more transparent and more 
efficient, we launched a new part-exchange 
tool last year. Over 60% of all classified 
retailer adverts now feature the part-
exchange tool.
Consumers conducted 13.7 million valuations 
on Auto Trader during the year, an increase of 
38% from the previous year, receiving a real 
time retail value for their car. There were also 
30.1 million trade valuations conducted (2015: 
23.8 million) as we focus on embedding the 
insight we have into valuations across the 
marketplace, so they become the benchmark 
for both consumers and retailers. 
Putting data at the core
We have continued to develop our data  
driven products to help retailers manage  
their forecourts effectively in order to optimise 
their margin and stock turn, with over 1,900 
forecourts now using them. We continue to 
develop these tools and believe more retailers 
will take advantage of these products. 
Findings from Auto Trader’s Annual Car  
Buying Report found that of those consumers 
looking at classified sites in the new car buying 
process, 85% used Auto T rader and 48%  
said Auto Trader was the most influential 
source – twice as much as the nearest 
website
3
. To capitalise on this opportunity,  
we launched new bespoke branded content 
solutions so that manufacturers could use 
new formats and editorial partnerships  
to reach these car buyers. We have also 
innovated the format of the advertising we 
offer, including native adverts on mobile 
platforms, and have combined these with a 
data driven targeting solution powered by a 
new data management platform, allowing 
vehicle manufacturers to put their brand in 
front of the most relevant consumers at every 
stage in the car buying journey. This, coupled 
with our new branded content solutions and 
advertising formats, provides a compelling 
proposition for manufacturers. 
We focus on assisting media agencies to drive 
better return on investment for their clients 
from their marketing and on helping to improve 
the effectiveness of their retailer relationships.
Enhancing our organisational structure 
With the transition from print to digital 
complete, the last year has been one of 
greater organisational continuity than in 
previous years. However, we continue to 
make significant changes to improve our 
relevance to our market. 
Firstly, we brought together our audience 
acquisition and brand marketing functions to 
ensure that those who were responsible for 
growing our audience were also responsible 
for ensuring that that audience was engaged. 
Secondly, we have merged our retailer and 
consumer product teams, who now follow an 
end-to-end, test and learn product development 
approach. Across the business, we release 
over 50 software updates every week. 
Thirdly, we transformed our sales and  
service functions, integrating them together, 
and implemented a new ‘Challenger’ sales 
model across the organisation, which we 
believe will help us deliver the strategic 
consultancy relationship we strive for with  
our retailer customers.
The commitment and enthusiasm of our people 
are vital to our continued success, and 97% 
of employees have said that they would 
recommend Auto Trader as an employer
4
.
Outlook
The new financial year has started well. 
Based upon having the largest consumer 
audience, healthy relationships with our 
retailers, a robust car buying market, and  
a modest cost base decrease, the Board is 
confident of further growth in the coming year. 
Trevor Mather
Chief Executive
9 June 2016
2 Auto Trader’s Market Report research surveyed 5,000 consumers in December 2015.
3 Auto Trader’s Annual Buyer Behaviour Report 2016 in conjunction with GfK.
4 According to Glassdoor, the UK’s fastest growing jobs and recruiting site.
Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
16
