 Strategic Report
2016 has been a year of  
significant progress for Avacta  
and its Affimer technology
Following the successful fund raising of £21 
million in August 2015, the Group is well on 
track to deliver the plans we set out at that 
time: to progress our therapeutic programmes 
and begin to commercialise Affimer reagents. 
Our knowledge of and experience with Affimers 
is expanding rapidly, enabling us to identify clear 
competitive strengths in therapeutic, diagnostic and 
research applications. On this basis, the Company is 
now targeting attractive, high value segments in each 
of these three areas.
We have made excellent progress in the Affimer 
therapeutic programmes, achieving a significant 
objective by initiating the first animal studies involving 
Affimer molecules. The dosing was well tolerated 
with no adverse effects observed and the results of a 
pharmacokinetic study of two PD-L1 Affimer inhibitors 
has read-out positively, showing that the Affimer 
constructs have good serum half lives. A parallel 
efficacy study in a mouse syngeneic tumour model 
has also produced positive results, demonstrating the 
efficacy of the PD-L1 blockade in reducing tumour 
growth rate. 
Our therapeutic partnership with Moderna 
Therapeutics continues to progress positively.
We have delivered on some important commercial 
objectives including demonstrating the performance 
of Affimer technology in our three initial areas of 
strategic focus: affinity separation, immunoassays 
and lateral flow diagnostics. We have also established 
collaborations with Mologic and Glythera to help 
validate Affimer reagents in key applications and 
continue to explore other collaboration opportunities 
to broaden the application base. 
There are a significant number of Affimer technology 
evaluations now ongoing and we continue to grow  
the pipeline of such partnerships that will ultimately 
deliver a stream of ‘Affimer-powered’ third party 
products to underpin long-term revenue growth 
through licensing royalties. 
The success of our programme to develop specific 
Affimer binders to the Zika NS-1 protein is a good 
example of the speed with which high quality Affimer 
reagents can be developed to answer an urgent  
need where there is a gap in the antibody offering. 
We also opened new laboratories and offices in 
both Cambridge and Wetherby which provide 
first-class facilities to accommodate the increased 
commercial demands and the expanding research 
and development programmes.
Our Animal Health business has also had another 
successful year, with growth in both revenues and 
margins. Development of new diagnostic solutions 
and tests via assays and algorithms has continued 
with the end customer being companion animal  
vets and laboratories. 
Our Team
During the year, Tim Sykes chose to step down as 
Chief Financial Officer, a role he had held since 2006, 
to become the full-time Chief Financial Officer of 
Proactis Holdings plc.
In January 2016, Tony Gardiner joined the Board 
as Chief Financial Officer and Philippe Cotrel was 
appointed to the role of Chief Commercial Officer, 
both bringing invaluable experience and insight to the 
business as we continue to strengthen our scientific 
and management team.
In April we established a Scientific Advisory Board, with 
Dr Mike Owen, ex-Senior Vice President and global Head 
of Research of Biopharmaceuticals at GSK, chairing this 
new board in addition to his role as a Non-executive 
Director on the Board. The Scientific Advisory Board 
has appointed Professor Terence Rabbitts, Professor 
Paul Moss and Professor Adrian Hayday to provide 
immuno-oncology target selection advice and to 
critically review the therapeutic programme progress.
10 “As a Board, we are extremely optimistic about 
2017 and beyond as we look to progress 
our Affimer therapeutic programmes and 
commercialise the Affimer research and diagnostic 
reagents with clinical and commercial partners. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank our 
shareholders for their continued support and we 
look forward to reporting on further progress in 
the coming months.”
Trevor Nicholls, Non-executive Chairman, 14 October 2016
11
Avacta Annual Report and Accounts          2016
