 STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 
 
Avanti Communications Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
3
 
Avanti made good progress in winning new key 
accounts in its Carrier and Government business, and 
the reduction in competition in both Europe and Africa 
has helped the broadband business. 
As announced in July 2016, the economic backdrop for the year 
was challenging and both currency depreciation and credit terms 
impacted on the Group’s working capital position. Post period end, 
Avanti’s financial position es suffered disruption when the additional 
debt facilities sought were not forthcoming on suitable terms the 
provider of launch finance for HYLAS 4 effectively withdrew its 
offer of essential finance at the last minute in the aftermath of the 
EU referendum vote.  
However, after a period of very hard work, our existing bondholders 
long term investors have supported the Company with commitments 
for the proposed refinancing transaction as announced on 
20 December 2016 (the “Refinancing Transaction”) which, subject 
to completion of a the proposed Refinancing Transaction process 
expected to complete in January, Avanti will have the runway it 
needs to launch HYLAS 4 and realise its ambition to fill its fleet.  
Notwithstanding this unwelcome distraction, Avanti’s business 
made some good progress in 2016 in developing its markets. 
The network continues to perform at a very high level, meaning 
that customers are pleased with quality of service, and the 
Company is able to solve customer issues and requirements 
to a standard that competitors are not able to meet. 
The best example of this was the landmark contract win with 
Everything Everywhere (EE). As part of the Home Office’s Emergency 
Services Network programme, Avanti is providing to EE satellite 
connectivity at almost 1,000 base stations in the UK in a seven-
year contract to help deliver a ubiquitous nationwide 4G service. 
We believe this is the largest satellite 4G backhaul project of its 
kind in the world. It clearly demonstrates Avanti’s pioneering 
service in changing the role that satellite technology plays in 
the telecoms market.  
We have now invested over $1.2bn in developing a business that 
can meet the huge latent demand for affordable connectivity in 
high growth markets across EMEA. Africa is expected to be the 
fastest growing data market in the world and with the majority of 
its capacity dedicated to Africa, Avanti is playing an important 
role and has developed strong partnerships with the largest telcos 
in our core markets. A successful conclusion to the proposed 
Refinancing Transaction will provide the capital for Avanti to meet 
its business plan and I look forward to putting a turbulent year 
behind us and resuming our focus on growth. 
During the year John Brackenbury and Matthew O’Connor left the 
board and I would like to thank them for their long years of service.  
I would also like to thank our employees, customers, suppliers and 
investors for their ongoing support. 
 
Paul Walsh 
Chairman 
 
