 STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
4 
Avanti Communications Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
 
Our satellites provide high performance, affordable 
connectivity to governments, businesses and 
individuals across EMEA either directly through 
satellite dishes installed at the user location, or by 
providing backhaul connectivity to mobile networks.  
Avanti reaches end users through national and international Service 
Providers and we count many of the biggest and best telecoms 
network operators as core customers. 
We made encouraging progress in each of our target market 
sectors this year.  
In Broadband, we won significant new business in Europe, in deals 
to migrate over 15,000 end user customers away from competitor 
networks as well as winning new subscribers. Spain and Italy are 
markets that showed strong improvement in the year. The sale by a 
competitor of its Ka-band satellite for use in other markets resulted 
in new broadband customers joining our network. Prospective 
competition also decreased in Africa when one of two competing 
Ka-band satellites for West Africa failed. The launch of a new 30Mb 
service is also now making a positive impact on growth in the UK 
and Germany. In Africa, we are deploying a broadband product 
called ECO (“Every Child Online”) which provides a very low cost 
broadband service, whilst also providing connectivity to schools. 
ECO is a wi-fi hot spot hosted by the school. Community users can 
use a proprietary Avanti app which works on low cost smart phones 
to buy, or trade, peer to peer credits which enable them to buy very 
small units of broadband access. We have won contracts to deploy 
this in over 2,500 schools and expect growth in 2017. 
In Government, we had an encouraging year. Our defence business 
grew significantly, with several country-contract customers now 
signed up for sizeable secure services applications. In civil, we 
are providing large scale connectivity to government offices in all 
of our core markets in Africa. The market for connectivity in schools 
is expected to grow strongly and we won several national schools 
projects (for simple connectivity, not just ECO). 
In Enterprise, our network providing digital transmission to  
cinemas is now in over 300 venues. We won new business in  
Africa to support remote mining and energy sites, and machine to 
machine communications – the “internet of things” – is becoming  
a significant market.  
In Carrier Services, our contract with EE is a landmark transaction. 
As part of the British Government’s Emergency Services Network, 
Avanti is providing 4G backhaul services to almost 1,000 mobile 
towers. Connecting a 4G network to a satellite network is highly 
sophisticated engineering and Avanti was the only company in 
Europe capable of delivering the services. It is a valuable multi year 
contract but also provides Avanti with a major marketing advantage 
around the EMEA region. 
During the year our distribution strategy evolved, mainly in 
Broadband and Enterprise. We are seeing welcome consolidation 
in our distribution channels, as large service providers buy the 
customer bases of smaller ones. In some regions we are actively 
encouraging this as it generates an economy of scale benefit for 
Avanti in servicing fewer service providers who make larger 
commitments. In some cases we have, and will continue to offer 
Master Distribution or quasi exclusive status to Service Providers 
who can buy substantially all of the capacity in a beam or territory 
and several such deals are under negotiation. 
An example of this in 2016 was the purchase by Eurona Wireless 
Telecom (“Eurona”), a Spanish based ISP, of the exclusive rights  
in perpetuity to sell capacity on any Avanti platform in Iberia 
specifically for use in the consumer broadband market. Eurona 
have a very large and well established customer base in the 
region and this arrangement provided them with an opportunity 
to strengthen their position in their local market and segment. 
Following this deal, Eurona have acquired one of their main regional 
competitors and a number of smaller players. This arrangement 
was the first step for Avanti in securing Eurona as a significant new 
partner and lays strong foundations to making significant headway 
in the Iberian market.  
To win volume in certain markets where end-customers are highly 
price sensitive – such as broadband in Europe - we adjusted our 
prices during the year. Our products are sold as Mb or managed 
accounts or as fully integrated projects but we calculate the Price, 
or Yield, per MHz per month. Yield was in the $1,600-$1,800 band 
during 2016 (2015: $1,800-$2,000).  
Demand is growing from an increasingly high quality customer 
base and a demand and supply balance is emerging.  
Net working capital increased during the year with receivables 
increasing to $79.5m (2015: $35.5m) and payables increasing to 
$82.8m (2015: $31.9m). The receivables balance increased mainly 
as a result of contracts reaching milestones at the end of the final 
quarter which resulted in invoicing or revenue accruals. Of the 
receivables balance, $27.7m was accounted for by accrued 
income (2015: $10.6m), $16.4 m of which was due from investment 
grade counter parties, either Government customers or large 
corporate customers where the underlying customer is a 
Government.  
As announced in July 2016, the economic backdrop for the year 
was challenging and both currency depreciation and credit terms 
impacted on the Group’s working capital position. Post period end, 
Avanti’s financial position suffered disruption when the additional 
debt facilities sought were not forthcoming on suitable termsin the 
aftermath of the EU referendum vote.  
   STRATEGIC REPORT 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 
 
 
Avanti Communications Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 
5
 
However, after a period of very hard work, our existing bondholders 
have supported the Company with commitments for the proposed 
refinancing transaction as announced on 20 December 2016 (the 
“Refinancing Transaction”). Subject to completion of the proposed 
Refinancing Transaction process expected to complete in January, 
Avanti will have the runway it needs to launch HYLAS 4 and realise 
its ambition to fill its fleet.  
The financial uncertainty of 2016 has impacted Avanti’s short term 
growth rate but with strong support from long term investors, on 
completion of the financial restructuring, we will have what we need 
to realise our ambitions.  
Finally, our founder Director Alan Foster, who retired in 2015, 
passed away this year. He is greatly missed. 
David Williams  
Chief Executive 
