 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
04
Chairman’s statement
THE FULL YEAR RESULTS REFLECT THE RESILIENCE 
OF THE BUSINESS MODEL, OUR LONG-STANDING 
CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS AND THE QUALITY OF 
THE BUSINESS-CRITICAL SOLUTIONS WE PROVIDE
Overview 
I am pleased to report that AVEVA 
continued to deliver a solid performance 
throughout the course of 2015/16.
The full year results reflect the resilience 
of the business model, our long-standing 
customer relationships and the quality of 
the business-critical solutions we provide.
Group revenue was £201.5 million (2015 
– £208.7 million) which was broadly 
in line with our expectations against 
a challenging market backdrop.
Revenue was impacted by foreign 
currency headwinds during the year 
with sterling strengthening against 
most major currencies. After adjusting 
for currency effects, organic constant 
currency revenue declined by 2% 
compared to 2014/15, a respectable 
performance given the market conditions.
Adjusted profit before tax was £51.2 
million (2015 – £62.1 million) representing 
a margin of 25.4% (2015 – 29.8%). 
Reported profit before tax was £29.4 
million (2015 – £54.9 million) which reflects 
lower revenue and one-off exceptional 
costs of £15.2 million, principally arising 
from restructuring initiatives and from 
professional services fees relating to the 
aborted Schneider Electric transaction.
Acquisitions
In July 2015, we announced that headline 
terms had been agreed to acquire 
Schneider Electric’s software business. 
A very intense period of due diligence 
continued from that point to December 
2015 when discussions were terminated. 
I am pleased to report that, despite 
the obvious potential distractions 
of this transaction, the employees 
and management remained focused 
on ensuring that AVEVA delivered a 
solid operating result in the year.
During the year, the Group completed the 
acquisition of FabTrol Systems Inc., a North 
American business providing fabrication 
management software, for £3.6 million.
Strategy update
The Board has recently reaffirmed 
the Group’s strategy, which has at its 
foundation a commitment to generating 
strong cash flows that can be reinvested 
in the business in order to drive long-
term profitable growth and deliver 
consistent returns for our shareholders. 
The Board has approved a three year 
strategic plan, comprising a number of 
key priorities which are covered in more 
detail in the CEO’s strategic review. We 
are very excited by the opportunities 
that lie ahead. Innovation remains at the 
heart of our success as a Company and 
the investment that we have made in 
recent years is now bringing measurable 
benefits, clearly seen in the strong 
momentum behind AVEVA E3D and our 
newest solution, AVEVA Engage. ™
“The Board is confident 
that our strategy is both 
focused and achievable.”
Philip Aiken
Chairman STRATEGIC REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
05
The Board
The composition of the Board has 
remained very stable for several years 
but there will be some change during 
the year ahead with two of our non-
executives due to retire from the Board, 
each having reached the nine year limit 
under the Corporate Governance code.
Jonathan Brooks’ nine year tenure as 
a Non-Executive Director ends in July 
2016 and I would like to thank him on 
behalf of the Board for his contribution to 
AVEVA. Jonathan joined us in 2007 and 
has overseen a period of strong growth 
and success for AVEVA. The process to 
find his replacement as Audit Committee 
chair is underway and we expect to 
appoint a successor shortly. Jonathan 
has agreed to stay on until November 
2016 to ensure an orderly handover.
Philip Dayer will also reach his ninth 
anniversary with AVEVA in January 2017 
and a replacement will be sought in 
due course.
Capital allocation
AVEVA has remained cash generative 
during the year and at 30 April 2016 our 
cash balance was £123.5 million, with no 
debt. The Board believes it is important 
to maintain a strong balance sheet in 
order to provide additional confidence 
in the strength of our business to our 
customers and also to have at hand 
sufficient resources to invest in the future 
growth of the business. Our strong 
cash flows also continue to support our 
ability to grow via acquisition and our 
progressive dividend policy. At the same 
time the Board recognises the need 
to strike the correct balance between 
investing in the business and providing 
returns to shareholders over the long 
term. Following an in-depth review of 
our capital allocation and discussions 
with our shareholders and our advisers, 
the Board has concluded to maintain its 
sustainable progressive dividend policy, 
balanced against an active focus on 
M&A, with excess capital being returned 
to shareholders from time to time. 
Hence, with this in mind, we are pleased 
to announce the increase of the ordinary 
dividend alongside these results, which 
illustrates our confidence in the long 
term prospects for the business and its 
underlying strength. The final dividend 
will be increased to 30.0 pence per share 
(2015 – 25.0 pence) which represents 
an increase of 20% over the prior 
year and takes the full year dividend 
to 36.0 pence (2015 – 30.5 pence), 
an increase of 18% over last year.
Summary
Despite 2015/16 having been a challenging 
year for the Group on a number of fronts, 
the business has shown great resilience 
and delivered a highly respectable 
performance, demonstrating the strength 
of our business model as well as the 
benefits that our technology delivers to 
customers. This performance would not 
have been possible without the hard work 
and dedication of all of our employees and 
the Board would like to express its sincere 
thanks for their considerable efforts.
I believe that AVEVA is well-positioned 
to capitalise on a number of exciting 
opportunities over the long-term, and 
as a Board we are confident that our 
strategy is both focused and achievable.
Philip Aiken
Chairman
24 May 2016
£201.5m
Group revenue
30 pence
Final dividend up 20%
SUMMARY OF  
GOVERNANCE
THE GROUP HAS A  
ROBUST GOVERNANCE 
STRUCTURE, WITH AN 
AGREED DIVISION OF 
RESPONSIBILITIES BETWEEN 
THE CHAIRMAN AND THE 
BOARD. THE KEY FEATURES 
ARE SHOWN BELOW.
Shareholders
Risk
Strategy
Effectiveness
Leadership
Leadership
The Board provides strong leadership, 
broad sector knowledge and extensive 
experience and tenure at AVEVA. 
The process is underway to identify 
successors for two of our NEDs 
who will step-down in this coming 
year after nine years on the Board.
Effectiveness
The Group’s performance reflects 
the quality of its leadership and 
governance. An internal Board 
evaluation confirmed that the Board 
is strong and functions effectively, 
building on the Board’s first external 
evaluation in 2014.
Strategy
The Board reviewed and approved 
our new strategic objectives, which 
we believe will drive substantial growth 
and create value for shareholders over 
the period to 2019.
Risk
We look to continuously improve our 
risk management. During the year, 
we formed a new Risk Committee, 
chaired by our Executive Vice 
President of Regional Operations.
Shareholders
AVEVA has a strong shareholder 
register. We maintain strong 
communication with key 
shareholders.
