 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
06
Chief Executive’s Q&A
RICHARD LONGDON DISCUSSES THE CHALLENGES AND 
OPPORTUNITIES THAT LIE AHEAD, THE KEY ROLE THAT 
INNOVATION PLAYS IN THE BUSINESS AND HOW 
CUSTOMERS CAN EXPECT TO BENEFIT FROM AVEVA’S 
INVESTMENT IN THE CLOUD
Could you discuss some of the 
key challenges facing AVEVA’s 
customers today and how 
technology can help?
The only real constant in the 
industries we serve is change, 
and this presents a major 
challenge for our Engineering, 
Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
and Owner Operator (OO) customers. 
In the design phase of a project where 
our 3D tools are used extensively, for 
example AVEVA E3D, customers are 
having to adapt all the time to deliver 
assets faster and at a lower cost. Later on, 
with the commissioning and operation 
of the project, ensuring the optimum 
performance of the asset through 
maintaining accurate data is a highly 
complex task, and this is where AVEVA’s 
information management and laser 
modelling software can be very beneficial.
We are on a journey with all of our 
customers to help them to realise the 
value of their Digital Assets – our vision 
is that for every physical asset there 
ought to be a digital representation. For 
these customers, the execution of major 
engineering projects requires hundreds 
of decisions – large and small – every 
day. Thousands more are required in 
the subsequent decades of operation, 
maintenance, modification and end of 
life. Throughout all of this, accurate and 
timely decisions depend on the quality, 
completeness and accessibility of the 
information that forms the Digital Asset. 
This, in essence, is the ultimate challenge 
that AVEVA is helping customers to meet 
every day. Consistent data is the key, 
and it is very much in AVEVA’s DNA. STRATEGIC REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
Can you talk about the 
role of innovation at AVEVA 
and why it is so important?
In my view innovation is 
the lifeblood of AVEVA. As 
an organisation we have 
invested over £170 million 
in R&D over the past five years and it is 
central to our strategy to continue this 
pace of investment in the future. As a 
key partner to our customers, we are 
constantly devising new capabilities and 
functionality that will enable ever-greater 
efficiency and competitive advantage. 
It is no accident that AVEVA has a 
considerable lead over the competition 
from a technology standpoint; this has 
been achieved through a consistent 
focus over the lifetime of our Company.
One of the major themes 
across the software industry 
at the moment is cloud 
computing and the Software 
as a Service (SaaS) delivery 
model. How do you see 
AVEVA’s customers 
approaching these new 
paradigms and what do you 
think the benefits might be?
AVEVA is extremely well 
placed, from a technical 
standpoint, to offer all of its 
products via the cloud over the 
course of the next few years and, indeed, 
AVEVA E3D is already cloud-enabled. 
I believe that customers currently have 
valid concerns over data security, but 
that these will ultimately be resolved 
sufficiently for broad industry adoption 
to the new model. The efficiencies for 
customers will be dramatic, with on-
demand access to software, low setup and 
running costs and unparalleled flexibility.
Could you give us an idea of 
the strategic areas of focus for 
AVEVA at the moment and 
where we should be expecting 
to see the Company invest 
over the next few years?
We have a very clearly defined 
set of strategic goals and 
so our investment plans are 
entirely focused on enabling 
the business to deliver against these 
targets. Specifically, we plan to invest 
more in transitioning our business to 
becoming the leading provider of the 
Digital Asset via the cloud. We are focused 
on developing our business into new 
markets where we are currently under-
represented and we shall continue to 
expand our presence beyond engineering 
design and into operations. We shall also 
continue to broaden the range of solutions 
we offer to customers, expanding our 
reach within their organisations to create 
even greater efficiencies through tight 
data integration between applications.
AVEVA is a diverse 
international business; 
what are the challenges 
you currently face as an 
organisation?
After a period of substantial 
growth, driven in a large part 
by the strength of the various 
end-markets in which our 
customers operate, we are now very 
focused on ensuring that we operate 
as efficiently as possible as a business. 
This means that we continually have 
to question whether we are allocating 
our resources in the most effective 
manner in order to capitalise on the huge 
opportunities that lie ahead, as we grow 
into new markets, deliver new innovations 
to our customers and adapt to new ways 
of selling and delivering our products. 
Sometimes this means that we need to 
take difficult decisions as we manage 
the costs across our global operations.
Looking at the 2015/16 year 
under review, what do you 
consider to have been the 
real highlights for the 
business and were there 
any disappointments?
One of the most important 
tests for our business has 
been to demonstrate the 
mission-critical role that our 
engineering software tools play within our 
customers’ day-to-day activities, and that, 
even during some of the toughest end-
market conditions many will remember, 
we can deliver a resilient financial result. 
I believe that this is something we have 
been able to demonstrate, which is very 
encouraging and is a particular highlight 
when I consider these results. There 
are always aspects of the business that 
we wish had performed better, and 
we have been disappointed with the 
sharp slowdown we have seen in Latin 
America, mainly due to external factors 
relating particularly to Brazil. Having 
said that, we remain committed to the 
region which we expect will prove to 
present very exciting opportunities 
for AVEVA over the longer term.
