 AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Recurring revenue (76%)
18
Chief Executive’s strategic review
OUR BUSINESS REMAINS STRONGLY POSITIONED IN 
ITS MARKETS, WITH FUNDAMENTAL DRIVERS THAT ARE 
EXPECTED TO SUPPORT SUSTAINED GROWTH OVER 
THE LONG TERM
Summary
For the financial year 2015/16 AVEVA 
achieved reported revenue of £201.5 
million (2015 – £208.7 million) and 
adjusted profit before tax of £51.2 
million (2015 – £62.1 million). Excluding 
the contribution from acquisitions and 
negative currency effects, revenue was 
£204.4 million (2015 – £207.6 million), 
in line with the Board’s expectations. 
Regionally, we saw an improved 
performance in the Asia Pacific region, 
with growth in China offset somewhat 
by the pressures on our South Korean 
shipyard customers that resulted in a 
flat performance in North East Asia. 
The Americas region as a whole was 
affected by ongoing weakness in Latin 
America, principally Brazil, and flat 
underlying revenues in North America. 
We saw a steady performance in the 
EMEA region, despite the mixed market 
conditions facing our customers.
The business environment
Our software is used by customers as they 
design, build and operate large capital-
intensive assets, mainly in the process, 
power and marine industries. We sell 
our solutions principally to Engineering 
Procurement and Construction (EPC) 
companies, shipyards and Owner 
Operator (OO) customers worldwide. 
Our vision of a constantly evolving 
Digital Asset is enabling our customers 
to manage this process of continual 
change as they design, build and operate 
some of the world’s most complicated 
assets. Increasingly, our customers 
are looking to deploy a combination 
of our products and this, reinforced by 
our strategically focused ‘One AVEVA’ 
sales effort, is driving wider adoption of 
the entire AVEVA product portfolio.
Among the principal long-term drivers 
of historical revenue growth for AVEVA 
has been the growing complexity of 
the engineering challenges that our 
customers are required to undertake 
within ever-shrinking time schedules, 
£154m
“AVEVA has made good 
progress on a number of 
important fronts during 
the year.”
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive Officer
Recurring  
revenue STRATEGIC REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
19
which necessitates an increasing 
investment in upfront engineering 
design and hence drives demand for 
our software applications. This has 
been a feature in all of our markets, but 
in particular in Oil & Gas, representing 
around 40% of revenue, where AVEVA 
has a competitive edge in the most 
complex of all design environments: 
upstream, offshore and deep water.
In recent times, global shifts in the supply 
and demand balance for Oil & Gas have 
led to a well-documented reduction in 
capital expenditure on new projects. 
This has particularly affected our ability 
to grow the revenue we derive from 
customers who have a high exposure 
to offshore and deep-water Oil & Gas 
projects. Among those most noticeably 
affected have been our shipyard 
customers in North East Asia, who had 
previously been major beneficiaries of 
the significant investment in offshore Oil 
& Gas, and our EPC customers who are 
heavily involved in the design phase of 
such projects. Consequently, we have 
seen some customers reducing their 
usage of our software over the past 
year and this has been evident in the 
reduction in total Group revenue and the 
related negative impact on profits that 
we have reported for this financial year.
We have responded to these changes in 
our markets by rapidly shifting our focus to 
expanding our presence in areas where we 
have historically been under-represented 
as well as pushing into adjacent markets. 
This has included a push into the 
downstream and onshore areas of Oil & 
Gas and an increased focus on building 
on our presence in Petrochemicals & 
Chemicals, Food & Beverage and Mining & 
Metals. In addition, we have increased our 
sales focus on higher growth regions such 
as India and China, where the market for 
power-related infrastructure is expected to 
show strong growth over the long term.
We have continued to invest in innovation 
over the past several years, and as a 
consequence of this we are seeing strong 
growth in sales of additional products 
into our installed base. For example, 
schematics applications, which currently 
represent less than 10% but could 
represent up to a third of total revenue in 
time, with AVEVA Engineering™ acting as 
a key driver of this adoption. Our flagship 
new design platform, AVEVA E3D, almost 
doubled its revenue in the first half of the 
financial year, and we saw this growth rate 
accelerate in the second half as various 
market trends increasingly play to the 
strengths of key areas of functionality 
such as laser modelling for brownfield 
engineering, which meets the demands 
of our EPC customers as they seek out 
more revamp, retrofit and life extension 
projects. AVEVA E3D contributed just 
under 10% of total revenue in the year 
to March 2016 (2015 − less than 5%).
The proven quality of AVEVA’s technology 
continues to provide customers with 
business-critical capabilities, enabling 
them to enhance their competitive 
advantage. This continues to underpin 
the strong customer relationships we 
enjoy as well as our recurring revenue 
base, both of which have been pivotal in 
helping to offset challenging markets.
When we look to understand the general 
direction of our markets our global 
accounts business is an important 
bellwether, representing many of our 
largest customers and contributing 
approximately 20% to annual Group 
revenue. We have been encouraged by the 
trends we saw during the year amongst 
these customers, where we witnessed 
increased usage of our new software 
solutions in onshore and downstream, 
as well as in the adjacent market of 
Building Information Modelling (BIM) 
and fabrication markets. This helped 
partially offset reduced usage of our 3D 
products in specific accounts. In particular, 
we were encouraged to see increased 
adoption of AVEVA’s engineering data 
management solutions, helping us to 
displace competitor products with AVEVA 
Engineering, AVEVA NET™ and AVEVA 
Information Standards Manager. ™
The AVEVA engineering data management 
solution spans all industry sectors and 
is currently being deployed on all major 
continents within our EPC global account 
customer base. Indeed, engineering data 
management is a clear driving force in our 
More than 3D (MT3D) campaign, which 
£63.4m
5% growth in Annual fees in organic, 
constant currency terms
c. 10%
of revenue in the year from  
AVEVA E3D
is key to driving customer adoption of a 
broader set of AVEVA solutions over time. 
In areas such as UK infrastructure projects, 
where our unique approach to information 
management has been proven over many 
years in the process industries, AVEVA has 
established a foothold in the BIM space.
Market fundamentals and our positioning
Our business remains strongly positioned 
in its markets, with fundamental drivers 
that are expected to support sustained 
growth over the long term. Despite the 
near-term effects of a weaker oil price, 
the projected increase in energy usage 
from a growing global population, in 
addition to the requirement to upgrade, 
replace and extend the lifetime of 
ageing existing assets, indicates that 
significant infrastructure investment 
will be necessary in order to meet 
demand. The International Energy 
Authority (IEA) estimates that by 2040 
world energy demand will increase by 
one-third, with the net growth driven 
entirely by developing countries. Over 
the same period, China’s net oil imports 
are forecast to be nearly five times 
that of the United States, and India’s 
will easily exceed that of the European 
Union with an estimated 600 million new 
electricity consumers (Source: World 
Energy Outlook, IEA November 2015).
Power therefore offers very attractive 
growth opportunities over the 
long-term as the world’s emerging 
economies invest in their power 
generation requirements and the ageing 
infrastructure of the developed world 
is maintained and replaced. Our global 
presence leaves us well positioned to 
capitalise on these opportunities. 
Within our Marine segment, the 
shipbuilding market remains depressed 
given subdued demand and overcapacity 
in the world fleet. The market is affected 
by trends in global GDP and a general 
slowdown in global trade combined with 
an economic slowdown in emerging 
markets, particularly the leading global 
importer, China. There are some areas 
where we see growth, for example in 
naval shipbuilding in China and India, but 
the overall macro picture is expected to 
remain challenging. Whilst a number of  AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
20
our major shipyard customers have been 
successful in diversifying their businesses 
into offshore projects over the past five 
years, their pipelines for this activity 
have seen a sharp slowdown since 2014, 
affected in particular by the boom in 
North America’s shale Oil & Gas market.
In times of uncertainty, we are keenly 
focused on supporting our customers as 
they seek to become more efficient and 
adapt to the fast changing environment. 
This was clearly evident at our annual 
customer event, the AVEVA World 
Summit, held in Dubai in October 
2015. With over 330 delegates from 45 
countries, we heard from customers from 
across the world’s Process, Plant, Power 
and Marine industries as they shared 
their project and operational experiences, 
explaining how AVEVA technology 
is helping them to address technical 
and strategic business challenges. 
Among the key themes of the Summit this 
year was engineering decision-support and 
we unveiled our new asset visualisation 
product, AVEVA Engage, and showcased 
the powerful Design in Context capabilities 
of the latest release of AVEVA E3D. As part 
of the continuing evolution of the AVEVA 
Digital Asset offering, customers were 
also able to familiarise themselves with 
our latest laser-modelling technologies, 
introducing the unique capabilities of 
the AVEVA Trusted Living Pointcloud. ™
Progress towards our key strategic goals
AVEVA has a clear strategy to grow its 
business over the long term, supported 
by achievable medium-term goals. As 
part of that objective, we have made 
good progress on a number of important 
fronts during the year, in particular in 
the following key strategic areas: 
(1) increasing our revenue from OOs
(2) increasing solution sales through our 
MT3D initiative
(3) broadening our market exposure
(4) further developing our Software as 
a Service (SaaS) solutions
Increasing our revenue from OOs
The OO market represents a significant 
opportunity for AVEVA to grow. With 
many plants today operating far beyond 
their intended lifetime, the pressure 
is on owners to keep these ageing 
assets running which presents OOs 
with important challenges as they seek 
to comply with ever more stringent 
environmental and safety legislation, 
whilst maximising profits through 
minimising downtime and unplanned 
outages. For this reason, OOs often 
exert influence over an EPC’s choice 
of engineering software tools, as they 
recognise the value of this design data 
in operations. As a result, OOs are 
particularly interested in areas such as 
our laser modelling capabilities contained 
in AVEVA E3D, as well as our Integrated 
Engineering & Design solutions.
Operators do not always have the skills or 
resources to maintain their Digital Assets 
and AVEVA is increasingly working with 
partners, providing a managed service 
offering to keep data current and accurate 
for the asset in question. We saw a good 
illustration of how AVEVA can solve this 
problem for customers during the year 
with a new customer, DowAksa, a leading 
global OO in the provision of industrial 
carbon fibre for the transportation, 
energy and infrastructure markets, who 
has chosen to standardise on AVEVA 
Integrated Engineering & Design™ in 
order to increase its overall control 
and management of all of its assets. 
Many of our OO customers are witnessing 
a growing risk to asset reliability and 
compliance that can result from the 
difficulties inherent in maintaining 
the accuracy of the information they 
hold about the assets they own and 
operate. Simply attempting to stay 
abreast of the constant change in this 
information can lead to significant 
inefficiencies and increase the risk of 
costly errors in the field. During the 
period we were able to demonstrate the 
value that AVEVA technology can offer 
in solving this problem for a leading
North American OO based in North 
Dakota, in this case through the roll 
out of AVEVA Diagrams™ to support 
its mechanical integrity operations.
Increasing solution sales through our 
MT3D initiative
We see a major market opportunity 
in leveraging our 3D installed base by 
selling additional engineering software 
tools, outside of AVEVA’s core 3D design 
platforms, AVEVA E3D and PDMS. One 
of the strongest areas of revenue growth 
within our business over the past year has 
been in MT3D, which include schematics, 
laser modelling and AVEVA Bocad™ 
amongst other applications. In particular, 
we believe the cross-selling opportunity 
for schematics and laser modelling is 
substantial. Our MT3D focus, backed 
by strong sales incentives, is already 
delivering results as we expand our 
product footprint within our key accounts.
Broadening our market exposure
Our technology delivers efficiency gains 
resulting from tight data integration 
and is a principal driver leading to an 
increasing number of EPC and OO 
customers choosing to standardise on 
AVEVA technology. AVEVA’s solutions 
are designed to help customers eliminate 
errors in construction and thus reduce 
expensive rework later in the project 
phase. Another key determinant of the 
customer’s decision to invest in AVEVA 
technology is their need to cope with 
increasing scale and complexity. 
Furthermore, our solutions enable the 
maintenance of accurate and reliable 
information, which is increasingly a 
key regulatory requirement in all the 
industries our customers serve. Thus, 
through the deployment of AVEVA 
technology our customers are able 
to maintain a competitive edge in the 
markets in which they are operating.
Chief Executive’s strategic review 
CONTINUED STRATEGIC REPORT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21
These factors, and the extensive 
capabilities of our solutions themselves, 
are clearly relevant to a broader set of 
end-markets than Oil & Gas, Power and 
Marine, where we are well represented. 
Hence, one of our key strategic initiatives 
is to expand into areas of the process 
industries in which we have little or 
no penetration, as well as adjacent 
markets where appropriate. Some 
of the following customer examples 
serve to illustrate the progress we 
made during the year on this front.
In the Paper & Pulp industry, we saw a 
strategically important customer in Latin 
America begin its migration from PDMS 
to AVEVA E3D, as a means of eliminating 
the problem of data inconsistency 
in the revision of complex drawings, 
which had previously been done using 
third-party tools unconnected to the 
3D model and, hence, prone to error.
In the Power market, a leading global 
EPC chose to deploy AVEVA’s Integrated 
Engineering & Design solutions, including 
AVEVA E3D, replacing a legacy system 
in order to benefit from increased 
efficiency within its engineering 
disciplines and in order to streamline 
purchasing and production workloads 
and replacing an inefficient legacy 
system. Key to this decision was the 
ability for AVEVA’s solutions to reduce 
rework in construction and improve the 
efficiency of the approvals process.
Eliminating errors in construction, and 
thus reducing costly rework in both 
greenfield and brownfield projects, led 
one of the leading EPCs operating in 
the Russian Petrochemical market to 
become a customer for the first time, 
replacing a legacy competitor solution. 
Again, in Russia, we saw one of the 
country’s largest petrochemical and gas 
processing EPCs extend its deployment 
of AVEVA technology to include a number 
of new products including AVEVA E3D, 
in order to cope efficiently with projects 
of greater scale and complexity.
Brodosplit Shipyard in Croatia 
implemented an AVEVA Integrated 
Shipbuilding solution, optimising the 
design of both vessels and offshore assets 
as well as materials management and 
production across the entire shipyard. 
One of the largest power EPCs in the 
Middle East selected AVEVA Integrated 
Engineering & Design package, replacing 
a competitor’s solution. We closed an 
important standardisation deal with a 
large Russian EPC and a major water 
services customer commenced full 
migration to AVEVA E3D, having been a 
PDMS customer for a number of years. 
We saw an encouraging number of new 
customers adopt AVEVA NET to meet their 
information management requirements, 
where regulatory compliance is a key 
consideration and driver behind the 
investment decision. These included a 
global chemical company, a major nuclear 
fusion research facility in France and 
two major South Korean EPCs. AVEVA 
NET has also gone into production at a 
Norwegian integrated oil major, which 
includes the first deployment of the 
AVEVA Activity Visualisation Platform™ 
(AVEVA AVP™). This is an example of a 
customer choosing to use the 3D model 
as the portal for navigation as they access 
data held in AVEVA NET, a trend which 
we expect to drive further convergence 
of these technologies. Encouragingly, 
progress in our AVEVA NET business 
has now reached a level of maturity 
where we can look to build additional 
scale through a partner approach rather 
than through further investment in 
our internal service organisation.
Our Fabricators business also delivered 
strong growth during the period. This 
business incorporates AVEVA Bocad and 
the recently acquired FabTrol, ™ offering an 
end-to-end solution for steel detailing and 
steel fabrication management, production 
control and shipping. The FabTrol 
acquisition, completed in June 2015, has 
already begun to raise awareness of AVEVA 
Bocad in the North American market, 
recently underpinned by significantly 
upgraded functionality that we expect to 
support future development in the region. 
Finally, providing further evidence of 
our determination to move into new 
industry segments, we were pleased to 
deliver an integrated design and workflow 
management solution, as the first stage 
of an eventual standardisation strategy, 
to one of the largest global suppliers 
of technology into the food processing 
industry, where AVEVA software tools 
are now being deployed to develop and 
design production plants for the dairy, 
beverage, brewery, food, pharmaceutical 
and chemical processing markets. 
‘MORE THAN 3D’ – WE SEE A MAJOR OPPORTUNITY 
IN LEVERAGING OUR 3D INSTALLED BASE BY SELLING 
ADDITIONAL ENGINEERING SOFTWARE TOOLS AVEVA GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
22
Further developing our Software as a 
Service (SaaS) solutions
We expect that over time the SaaS 
delivery model will become more 
valuable to our customers, particularly 
as it enables them to leverage the many 
efficiencies and benefits offered by cloud 
computing. AVEVA has a strong technical 
proposition and is well positioned, 
through partnerships with the industry-
leading cloud infrastructure platform 
providers, for the eventual SaaS delivery 
of our solutions. Indeed, AVEVA has 
led the industry with AVEVA Global™ 
which has allowed customers to move 
projects around the globe to enable 24 
hour collaborative working on projects. 
We were very encouraged during the year 
by the uptake for our on-demand AVEVA 
E3D environment AVEVA Experience, ™ 
with over 1,000 customers already 
trialling the cloud version of AVEVA E3D, 
where existing and prospective users 
of our design software can gain hands-
on experience with the fully-functional 
AVEVA E3D platform, via the cloud, 
and we have some well-established 
hosted deployments of AVEVA NET. 
We believe that over the long term 
these solutions will gain strong traction, 
but there are a number of challenges 
for the industry to overcome before 
wider adoption becomes the norm.
Some years ago we saw the majority 
of the market move from initial 
licences to rental licences and to 
a SaaS hybrid of token licensing. 
The next transition will be towards 
greater use of SaaS and off premise 
services and software; as we make this 
technology shift there will be additional 
opportunities for AVEVA enabling us 
to offer a broader set of solutions.
Outlook
The result for the year has highlighted 
the strength of the AVEVA business 
model, the value that our technology 
delivers to our customers and our ability 
to adapt to changing market conditions 
through a disciplined approach to 
innovation and organisational efficiency. 
AVEVA’s Digital Asset approach is proving 
to be transformational for our EPC and 
OO customers as we help them to 
focus on profitability, lean engineering 
disciplines, operational efficiencies and 
regulatory compliance in information 
management. We have continued to 
invest in our technology vision and 
are particularly encouraged to see the 
concept resonating strongly with our 
customers, many of whom have placed 
the Digital Asset at the heart of their 
technology vision. The Digital Asset offers 
our customers a means of building a 
substantial business opportunity around 
the entire lifecycle of the asset, which 
we expect to increase in importance for 
both EPCs and OOs over the long term.
As we manage our business through the 
cycle we are focused on ensuring the 
most efficient allocation of resources, 
optimising our investment in future 
opportunities. As a consequence, in the 
second half of the year we undertook 
some additional cost saving initiatives, 
achieved at a one-off exceptional cost 
of approximately £4.5 million, part of 
which has been recognised in the year. 
We believe that our organisation is 
now well positioned to deliver further 
progress against our key strategic 
initiatives, despite the difficult end-market 
backdrop we are currently experiencing.
It is a testament to the dedication of 
all of our employees around the world 
that we have been able to deliver a solid 
result in difficult markets alongside 
the implementation of significant 
cost savings during 2015/16. As a 
result, AVEVA is in a stronger position 
today, both from a technology and an 
organisational perspective, than ever 
before. Our business remains well 
capitalised and we intend to continue to 
bolster our organic growth with selective 
acquisitions over time, adding new 
product capabilities and accelerating 
access to new markets as a result.
Whilst we recognise the challenges in 
our markets, we are focused on the 
opportunities that lie ahead of us both 
strategically and operationally and, with 
these in mind, the Board is confident that 
we can achieve our targets in the current 
financial year and over the medium term.
Richard Longdon
Chief Executive Officer
24 May 2016
Chief Executive’s strategic review 
CONTINUED
