  
 
 
   
 
 
 
68 
Aviva plc 
Corporate responsibility Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
At Aviva we believe that corporate responsibility (CR) means 
taking positive action, treating our colleagues, customers and 
suppliers with respect, applying consistently high standards in 
everything we do and having a constructive role in the 
communities in which we operate. As well as running our 
business responsibly we also work to influence sustainable 
behaviour among our customers, suppliers and the companies 
in which we invest. Last but not least, CR is about taking a 
proactive approach towards the shared global challenge of 
climate change. 
The report that follows contains a summary of the progress 
and performance of our CR programme in 2009. A detailed 
review is available online at www.aviva.com/corporate­
responsibility/reports 
Highlights from 2009 include: 
— Executive directors’ remuneration based on financial 
outcomes and targets related to customer advocacy and 
employee leadership and engagement 
— Extended our reporting of key performance indicators 
using Accounting for Sustainability’s connected 
reporting framework 
— Established long-term carbon reduction target 
— Launched ‘Street to School’ global community programme 
— Included in some of the world’s leading indices and 
benchmarks 
Strategy and governance 
’By acting responsibly for the long term in how we do business 
we will meet our ambition to provide prosperity and peace of 
mind to our customers.’ 
This is our core purpose applied irrespective of whether 
economic conditions are favourable or challenging. Our global 
business strategy has stood Aviva in good stead to manage the 
risks and uncertainties experienced through the downturn in the 
world’s economy while preparing for recovery and long-term 
growth. Our people strategy and our CR strategy play an 
important part in this, in maintaining our reputation as a 
preferred employer and responsible corporate citizen, in 
managing our resources and in reducing costs. 
Directing our approach is our Board CR Committee. 
Established in 2006, the Committee is chaired by Carole Piwnica 
and comprises our Chairman, our CEO and three non-executive 
directors. It meets four times a year to review Group CR strategy 
and policy and assess regional performance against consistently 
applied Group key performance indicators (KPIs). It also reviews 
Group functions within Aviva that contribute to our global CR 
programme. In 2009 our global procurement activities were 
presented to the Committee and in 2010 it will receive an 
update on our customer programme. Executive directors 
remuneration is based on a combination of financial outcomes 
along with targets related to customers, employees and 
personal objectives. The Committee’s report can be found on 
page 98. 
Our CR Advisory Group supports and advises on the 
management and implementation of the global CR programme. 
Reporting to the Executive Committee through the Group HR 
Director, it includes Group CR specialists, regional CR directors 
and HR directors who work together to adopt and refine CR 
strategies, assess progress, identify actions that need to be 
taken and embed our programmes in different parts of the 
business. In addition, the Aviva plc Board receives an annual 
update on CR strategy, activities and progress. Our CR 
programme is also featured regularly on the agenda at executive 
management committees and regional performance against 
Group KPIs is reviewed quarterly. 
We also report our performance using the HRH Prince of Wales’ 
Accounting for Sustainability (A4S) connected reporting 
framework (see page 74), a methodology that integrates 
financial and non-financial data to provide a comprehensive 
picture of our performance. 
We were one of the first companies to help develop the 
framework and have incorporated it in our Annual Report and 
Accounts since 2007. By reporting the links between 
sustainability, financial performance and strategic direction 
more explicitly the framework increases our understanding and 
the visibility of sustainability issues. We have found that it has 
helped our finance and sustainability teams to work together 
more effectively, identifying cost savings as well as providing 
clear disclosure to investors. This year we have extended the use 
of the framework further by adding customer and community 
investment indicators. 
Bringing CR into the Boardroom 
Aviva Investors has taken a leading position in encouraging 
global companies to enhance their governance and 
transparency in CR reporting. In 2008, Alain Dromer, Chief 
Executive of Aviva Investors, called on all stock market listing 
authorities to make it a requirement that companies: 
— consider how responsible and sustainable their business 
model is, and 
— put a forward looking sustainability strategy to the vote 
at their AGM 
In November 2009 Aviva announced plans to put our CR Report 
to a separate shareholder vote at the 2010 AGM. We are the 
first company in the UK and the first financial institution in the 
world to take this proactive step. We hope that this will 
encourage other companies to bring CR issues to the heart 
of the boardroom and engage openly and transparently with 
stakeholders on sustainability issues. 
Business ethics 
We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our 
principles in our business ethics code. This stipulates fairness, 
honesty and transparency in all we do. Everyone at Aviva has a 
part to play in upholding our standards and we raise awareness 
of these responsibilities through our induction programmes and 
acceptance and sign-off of the code by all staff. 
Financial crime 
Our financial crime policy reinforces our zero tolerance 
approach and ensures that risks relating to fraud, money 
laundering, market abuse and bribery and corruption are 
adequately controlled. We provide mandatory computer-based 
training as part of our procedures for combating market abuse 
and insider trading, money laundering and fraud. In 2009 we 
enhanced our bribery and corruption controls and rolled out 
a worldwide training programme for employees. 
We encourage our employees to raise any concerns they 
might have through ‘Right Call’ – an Aviva-wide malpractice 
reporting service. This enables all employees to report any 
suspicions or concerns in a confidential manner for independent 
investigation. In 2009, 67 incidents were recorded across the 
group. All cases were referred for independent investigation 
with 51 reaching conclusion and 16 cases currently remaining 
under investigation. 
Our people 
Delivering on our strategic plans and commitments requires 
strong leadership and the energy, dedication and belief of all 
our employees. Over the past three years we have built a strong 
global human resources function to lead our cultural   
 
 
 
  
     
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
69 
Performance review
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued 
Corporate responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
transformation. We have a clear purpose – to drive a talent 
leadership and culture-led transformation to deliver exceptional 
business performance. We have approached this by 
implementing strategies designed to: 
— Encourage talented people to join Aviva and stay 
— Match the right people to the right roles and take action 
where there are gaps 
— Empower people to be the best they can be 
— Build pride in Aviva 
We will do this by focusing globally on: 
— Developing leaders capable of winning for Aviva in our 
chosen markets 
— Embedding the ‘One Aviva, Twice the Value’ culture 
— Building engagement and commitment by living the 
employee promise 
— Strengthening our CR performance by engaging employees 
and influencing our communities and stakeholders 
— Making it easier to work by simplifying and de-cluttering 
HR tools and processes 
— Building strong global HR and CR functions. 
Locally, the use of global tools and ‘One Aviva’ processes 
supports the delivery of our business strategies. 
Our employee promise 
We want every employee to be able to say ‘At Aviva I am 
recognised for who I am and my contribution matters’. This is 
the cornerstone of our employee promise, developed after 
extensive research and consultation with our people on what 
matters most to them at work. 
By implementing ‘One Aviva’ we are well on the way to 
becoming a global brand recognised wherever we operate. For 
example, in 2009 we reached a key milestone in the UK when 
Norwich Union completed the name change to Aviva. It is vital 
that we take our employees with us by inviting them to 
question, discuss and co-create the future. To support our line 
managers in leading their people on the brand journey, we 
organised a series of ‘This Is Our Story’ cinema events, featuring 
the experiences of employees in different parts of Aviva’s 
business. Managers were equipped with practical tools to help 
them to be effective in bringing to life the behaviours asked of 
all of us. 
We want to create an employment brand that attracts and 
retains the best talent and differentiates Aviva as an employer 
of choice. Over the last 18 months we have introduced new 
management and leadership programmes to nurture talent and 
create proactive dialogue with leaders and their teams. New this 
year is the ‘Learn Your Strengths’ interactive tool, taken up by 
more than 7,000 employees. We also enhanced our induction 
programme and created recognition schemes, including 
Spotlight and Aviva Achievers, which give employees credit for 
exceptional performance. 
We are changing the way in which services are delivered to 
employees and a wide range of supporting tools and materials 
are now available to all on our global intranet, Aviva World, 
which is fast becoming our first port of call for information. 
Aviva World includes news features and forum sites, it gives 
employees worldwide the opportunity to learn more about 
different businesses, discuss issues and get to know each other. 
Listening to our employees 
We rebranded our annual employee survey in 2009 and 
included new questions to reflect the areas our people said 
were important. An extensive communication programme was 
implemented in the lead-up to the launch of the Employee 
Promise survey and our overall participation rate increased to 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
76% (2008: 74%) with eight business units achieving 100% 
participation. Senior management pay continues to be linked 
to the survey results through clear benchmarked targets on 
leadership and engagement. 
Visibility of our survey results has increased with most team 
managers receiving their own localised team results. Senior 
leaders are also engaged, taking the time to speak to employees 
about the survey results, sharing their personal reflections and 
taking direct questions on the survey outcomes. For every survey 
completed we gave a donation to our new ‘Street to School’ 
charity programme raising £37,000 for Save the Children 
in India. 
We invested in an online planning tool to help teams record 
and monitor action plans arising from the survey results. We will 
share progress on these plans at several stages before the next 
survey. In 2010 we will produce a global results booklet 
providing our employees with a clear picture of what we have 
done well, where we can improve and the steps we will be 
taking to address their concerns. 
Strengthening our leadership capability 
During 2009 we continued our twin-track approach to 
developing leadership capability. We ran collective, regionally 
based summits for our top 500 leaders focused on our ‘One 
Aviva, Twice the Value’ vision. A continuation of the culture 
change started in 2008, these events have helped to increase 
the resilience of our senior leaders, improve understanding of 
the internal and external brand and create a global identity. We 
have designed a new approach to individual development that 
seeks to strengthen leadership capability by focusing specifically 
on career transition points. Associations with global partners 
including The Centre for Creative Leadership, INSEAD and 
FranklinCovey are providing innovative methods that enhance 
the quality and variety of development opportunities available. 
For 2010 we have already committed to bring the senior leaders 
together under the banner of Vision into Performance to 
strengthen the day-to-day actions being taken to achieve 
our vision. 
Talent management 
Our Talking Talent programme has been running for two 
years and Aviva now has a consistent method for assessing 
individuals' performance and long-term potential. The process is 
used at all levels and is providing excellent visibility of the talent 
within our business. 
Recruiting and retaining the best people in an increasingly 
competitive market is a strategic priority for Aviva and we have 
launched a new website (www.aviva.com/careers) to showcase 
career options across our worldwide markets. The site describes 
what it is like to work at Aviva, with video profiles of employees, 
information on our culture and values, career management 
insights and an overview of our hands-on approach to CR. 
Diversity, equality and human rights 
Aviva’s diversity programme promotes a fair and respectful 
culture in which differences are valued. Our policy and practices 
are aligned with United Nations Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights and International Labour Organisation’s core labour 
standards. Gaining a detailed understanding of diversity issues is 
crucial in bringing our employee promise to life. To this end we 
have refreshed our training, beginning with a virtual conference 
in which external speakers and our HR specialists and CR team 
gave their insights. We will continue to focus on key diversity 
challenges in 2010. 
Within our senior management group, representation of 
female colleagues was maintained at 22% in 2009. We were 
recognised in The Times/Aurora Where Women Want to Work 
Corporate responsibility   
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
    
 
70 
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Top 50 list in 2009 and featured in Cranfield University’s study 
of women in the boardroom. Our chief marketing officer, 
Amanda Mackenzie, was named in The Female FTSE Report as 
one of 100 Women to Watch in 2009. Our employee groups, 
including the Aviva Women’s Network and Pride Aviva, are 
firmly established. They have evolved from small beginnings 
to become thriving networks, hosting events and contributing 
support for local community projects. This year, we significantly 
improved our position in Stonewall’s Workplace Equality Index, 
achieving 54th position, compared to 78th in 2008. We are 
the only insurer to be included by Stonewall in the top 100 
employers in the UK, and Pride Aviva also received special 
recognition as a ‘star performing employee network group’. 
Community investment 
As a responsible business, we are committed to helping address 
challenges facing people and society. Globally, we invested 
over £8.0 million in 2009 (2008: £9.6 million), in line with our 
strategic focus to support community and charitable initiatives 
in education, life trauma and financial literacy. We encourage 
employee volunteering in support of these areas as part of 
personal development and our people can apply for up to three 
paid volunteering days per year. Nearly 9,000 staff took up the 
opportunity in 2009, resulting in a total of 79,900 volunteering 
hours, an increase of 18% on 2008 (67,700 hours). We report 
the impacts of our activities against the London Benchmarking 
Group model and have developed tools to help our businesses 
around the world capture information on the impact of their 
investments in the communities they serve as well as employee 
time and cash donations. 
We continue to support humanitarian aid through our 
Oxfam 365 partnership, which helps to equip Oxfam with the 
resources and materials to respond to emergencies as soon as 
they happen. Our employee groups also link up with Oxfam 
to raise awareness of key issues and in March our Women’s 
Network match-funded donations made by employees to 
Oxfam’s ‘Yes We Can’ campaign. This was in support of 
Oxfam’s work to change attitudes towards women in Nepal 
and South Asia and create a fairer society. 
In 2009 we launched ‘Street to School’, our five-year global 
charitable initiative, which aims to get children and young 
people off the street and into education. Working with leading 
charities and experts, and supported by our employees and 
customers, together we will champion the needs of street 
children in the communities in which we live and work. ‘Street 
to School’ has already been launched in the UK, Turkey and 
India, and will gradually be adopted in every country in 
which we operate, eventually accounting for 50% of our 
charitable donations. 
Here are just a few of the community activities we 
supported this year: 
‘Street to School’ in India 
Aviva India has partnered with CRY (Child Rights and You) and 
Save the Children in India to help over 50,000 street children 
get access to education and training by 2012. To date, 70% of 
staff have volunteered to donate a day’s salary to CRY, and in 
November, 30 staff members took part in the Airtel Delhi Half 
Marathon to raise funds for the charity. In partnership with the 
Hindustan Times, Aviva India also held a five-day book donation 
drive which resulted in 125,000 books donated by employees, 
schools and members of the public. Save the Children will use 
the books to help give 38,000 under- privileged children access 
to education. 
Economic citizenship education for teenagers 
‘Paying for It’ (www.payingforit.org.uk) launched by Aviva in 
2007, continued to take economic citizenship teaching into 
schools up and down the country with the help of over 100 
specially trained Aviva volunteers. Using specially tailored 
resources available online for all schools to access, classes 
address issues of financial and social importance, such as 
housing, the environment and health. 
The ‘Chance to be Chancellor’ competition was run 
in conjunction with The Times as part of the ‘Paying for It’ 
programme. It offers engaging activities to help young people 
find out more about the current economic challenges facing the 
country and act out the role of the Chancellor in delivering their 
vision for the economy. 
Aviva Canada’s Community Fund 
The Aviva Community Fund gives members of the public the 
opportunity to turn great ideas into action to benefit their 
local communities. Launched in October, a unique website, 
www.avivacommunityfund.org enables Canadians to register 
their ideas with accompanying photos or video. Special outreach 
efforts were made to raise awareness of the new fund to 
charities and not-for-profit organisations and approximately 
8,000 schools, colleges and universities were contacted across 
the country. Through various forms of communication including 
social media sites, the people who submitted the ideas 
encouraged as many people as possible to vote for their idea. 
More than 2,000 ideas were registered and an impartial panel 
of judges awarded a total of $500,000 to eight winning entries, 
announced in January 2010. From coast to coast, ideas ranged 
from building playgrounds for children, driving awareness 
of environmental programmes and providing services for 
at-risk youth. 
Taiwan typhoon 
Typhoon Morakot, which hit Taiwan in August, resulted in over 
400 deaths in the country. Aviva in Taiwan raised funds through 
employee donations to World Vision and employees were given 
up to two days leave to help those affected by the typhoon. 
A dedicated helpline was established to speed up claims and 
affected customers were offered a three-month deferral on 
their premiums. 
Podari Zhizn 
Our people in Russia volunteered their time and money to 
support Podari Zhizn, a charity that helps children suffering from 
terminal illnesses. By funding the charity, instead of subscribing 
to the tradition of buying gifts for clients during holiday periods, 
the funds raised to date have provided a new ventilating system 
of benefit to the children. Aviva Russia has also donated 
computers to the foundation. 
Environment 
Today’s actions will affect future generations, and nowhere is 
this more evident than in our approach to climate change and 
the environment. Our established and proven strategy focuses 
on controlling our own impacts and resources, including gas, 
water, electricity and waste – and by pursuing this long-term 
policy we have reduced our carbon emissions by a further 5.2% 
this year. As an investor, we use our influence to encourage 
others to make responsible choices and we promote good 
environmental practice among our colleagues, customers 
and suppliers. 
On a like-for-like basis, in 2009, our total carbon emissions 
fell by 5.2% across our global business, compared to a 6.6% 
reduction in 2008. Overall, we achieved a group-wide reduction 
in carbon emissions of 15% (2008: 3.3%). This figure includes 
energy consumption data from our business in Australia before   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
71 
Performance review
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued 
Corporate responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
its sale in October 2009. The data excludes Auto Windscreens 
and Aviva Global Services (AGS) which were sold at the end 
of 2008. 
We also set global annual targets in other key areas, 
summarised below: 
Performance 
– accounting 
for 
2009 Targets divestments 
Reduce CO2 emissions by 5%* (5.2)% 
Reduce water use by 4% (8.8)% 
Reduce waste by 4% +9.6 % 
Increase percentage of recycled waste by 2% (until 80% recycled rate 
is achieved). (15.0)% 
* We also offset 105% of our remaining emissions by investing in sustainable projects such 
as renewable energy generation and small-scale run-of-river hydro electricity systems. 
All performance data is calculated on a like-for like basis taking into account new acquisitions 
and divestments in 2009. 
We continue to pursue our goal to incrementally reduce our 
carbon footprint on an annual basis. We have also set out a 
long-term carbon reduction target to help focus our businesses’ 
environmental strategies. By 2020 we aim to reduce our carbon 
emissions by 30% from our 2006 baseline. 
The role of insurers in climate change 
The insurance industry has a fundamental part to play in 
society’s responses to climate change. As a major insurer Aviva 
has first-hand understanding of the impact of extreme weather 
events on our customers. On their behalf, we are committed 
to help mitigate the threat of climate change and support 
everyone in society to adapt to changes caused by man-made 
emissions already in the atmosphere. Our industry can also draw 
on its knowledge of historical weather data to identify patterns 
of change, applying our understanding of risk to map future 
temperature scenarios and determine likely impacts. Finally, 
we can offer the financial tools to help manage the burden 
of climate change, for example the pooling and transfer of risk. 
We believe that climate change must be tackled now. 
As extreme weather events become more frequent and more 
severe, they become more challenging to insure. It is in 
everyone’s interest that insurance remains affordable and 
available so that people affected from severe weather events 
can recover quickly from unavoidable impacts. 
Our actions and commitments 
Proactive participation in leading global forums and associations 
is a key part of our climate change strategy. This year we were 
involved in the lead-up to the Copenhagen Summit in 
December 2009 through our membership of working groups of 
the UNEP Finance Initiative and as signatories to the following: 
— The Geneva Association Kyoto Statement 
— The UNEP FI Investor Statement on a Global Agreement on 
Climate Change 
— The ClimateWise Statement for Copenhagen 
— The Corporate Leaders Group Copenhagen Communiqué 
Our senior executives also take the opportunity to engage 
personally and as widely as possible on climate change and 
other environmental issues. In September, a senior delegation 
including Carole Piwnica, chair of our Board CR Committee, 
Euleen Goh (Aviva Group Board member) and Simon Machell 
(CEO Aviva Asia Pacific) led a roundtable discussion in Hong 
Kong with NGOs, corporates, academics and students from 
Hong Kong University. The event included strong debate on the 
climate change agenda and Aviva’s role in making a difference, 
providing valuable perspectives that are being shared within the 
organisation. The group also visited the Aviva Junk, a ‘green’ 
Chinese sailing vessel, developed in collaboration with Hong 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
Kong University. Launched in March 2009, the Aviva Junk 
incorporates a number of renewable energy efficient 
technologies and is being used to host educational tours as part 
of our environmental awareness programme in Asia Pacific. 
Raising our employees’ levels of engagement and 
participation in environmental projects is an important part of 
our efforts to encourage good practices, both at work and at 
home. Many of the employee volunteering activities that took 
place around the world in June as part of our celebrations to 
become ‘One Aviva’ focused on the environment, including a 
recyclathon and a series of tree planting events. We publish 
regular articles and updates on environmental matters on our 
global intranet site and, in November, teamed up with our 
environmental partner ClimateWise with an interactive, web-
based project to give employees the chance to have their say 
on risks and opportunities associated with climate change and 
the insurance industry. 
As part of controlling and reducing impacts within Aviva, 
telepresence video conferencing has proved to be a significant 
asset. By implementing this technology and reducing domestic 
and international air travel we have made cost savings, 
promoted work-life balance and reduced our carbon footprint 
from air travel by 5% in 2009. In 2010 we plan to increase the 
number of facilities available to make telepresence a regular 
part of business and extend our capacity by using some of our 
suppliers’ conference facilities. In the UK our proactive work 
on climate change was recognised when we gained 
accreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard. The standard is a 
key milestone for Aviva as it is an early action metric that will 
count towards the UK government’s new Carbon Reduction 
Commitment regulation. 
We are both a signatory and responding company to the 
Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and this year were ranked 
eighth in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for the 
FTSE350, third in the financial services sector and 38th overall 
in the FSTEGlobal 500. Our Chairman, Lord Sharman, spoke at 
the CDP London launch event and called on industry to provide 
more consistency and transparency in reporting and move from 
disclosure to mitigation. 
Our environmental planning is now being extended to our 
partners, and, in a first move for Aviva, we signed a ‘green’ 
service level agreement with Hewlett Packard (HP) for the 
provision and running of two data centres. As a key part of the 
contract, HP is charged with using ‘eco friendly’ or renewable 
power sources to run the centres, develop an environmental 
management system, conduct audits and hold an annual review 
with Aviva to assess progress, set targets and investigate new 
technologies and processes. 
Customers 
With customers’ confidence in financial institutions shaken 
by the global economic downturn, it was as important as ever 
before to remain true to our purpose of providing prosperity 
and peace of mind. We continued to work to understand 
perceptions and needs in our markets and once again 
conducted our wide-ranging annual survey on worldwide 
consumer attitudes to savings, using the results to inform 
ongoing product and service developments across the Group. 
The Net Promoter Score ®
1
 (NPS) is our leading, Group-
wide measure of customer advocacy, comprising a globally 
consistent relationship and benchmarking survey which is 
regularly conducted. We continued to extend this across our 
global operations and next year will develop the metric further 
1 Net Promoter, NPS, and Net Promoter Score are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems, Inc., 
Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld. 
Corporate responsibility   
 
 
 
 
 
 
72 
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
to learn more about how customers interact with Aviva 
and gain a better understanding of their preferences. NPS 
performance targets form part of our executive directors’ 
annual remuneration. 
Products and services 
Through our product portfolio customers can make informed 
choices about their insurance and financial needs that can at 
the same time provide wider socioeconomic and environmental 
benefits: 
— Our affordable microfinance and insurance products for low-
income earners have reached around 1.4 million rural lives in 
India to date, in many cases offering financial protection for 
as little as two dollars a year. 
— Car insurance customers in some of our general insurance 
markets can opt for lower premiums if they drive vehicles 
with low CO2 emissions. 
— With research showing that half of new parents do not have 
adequate insurance, we launched Parent Life Cover in the UK 
which includes free protection until the child’s first birthday. 
— Recognising low levels of confidence among consumers, 
Lisseo was launched in France to offer customers the 
opportunity to invest gradually in the equity markets without 
the need to commit a lump sum on one day. 
Extreme weather events are an increasingly common occurrence 
and 2009 was no exception. Aviva in Ireland launched an 
advance payment mechanism in response to the extensive 
flooding in November to help householders and businesses 
who were most seriously affected. In a co-ordinated campaign, 
the team also worked with local and national media and local 
councillors to keep customers informed about the steps to 
take if they were affected. 
In the UK, by activating our major incident plan in a timely 
manner ahead of predicted floods and storms at the year end, 
we were well prepared to respond. In Cockermouth, Cumbria, 
particularly hard hit by severe flooding, Aviva claims staff were 
immediately stationed at the evacuation centre and stayed until 
the last evacuee had left, providing advice and support to 
anyone who needed it, irrespective of who their insurer was. 
Our drive to increase customer satisfaction and loyalty 
gained extra momentum this year with the launch of the first 
Aviva Customer Cup. This is our new global tournament 
designed to help our employees identify and remove barriers to 
customer loyalty, stimulate innovative ideas and enable teams 
around the world to be recognised for delivering the ‘One 
Aviva’ brand promise. Projects from more than 340 teams were 
evaluated by judges in three tournament stages with 10 teams 
making it through to the grand final in October. The winning 
group was the ‘Ears of RAC’ with a web-based project to 
capture comments and opinions from customers, spot trends 
and respond to them quickly. The focus is now on sharing the 
best practices of the top 10 projects in other parts of Aviva’s 
business and embedding these before launching the next 
tournament in 2010. 
Supply chain 
Our challenge is to support our suppliers in meeting the highest 
social, environmental and ethical standards in the delivery of 
goods and services. For 2009 we agreed a global approach and 
targets for our regional procurement teams focusing on our 
approach to: 
— Sourcing ethical suppliers in the context of Aviva’s annual 
third-party spend of around £6 billion 
— Ensuring an ethical relationship between our suppliers and 
Aviva employees 
— Encouraging our suppliers to further develop CR within their 
own businesses and supply chains. 
We made progress in sourcing with the development of a set of 
industry-leading questions in collaboration with the UK-based 
Financial Services CR forum. These take account of CR issues for 
different categories of spend, helping Aviva to make informed 
choices about potential new suppliers. A CR weighting is 
included in our sourcing decisions. 
To support and maintain ethical relationships with suppliers 
we are implementing processes and tools that identify 
hospitality offered by suppliers to ensure that this does not 
conflict with our internal rules and is not offered during 
commercial negotiations. Similarly, we have implemented a 
register of interests to ensure complete transparency of any 
interest that our employees might have in an existing supplier. 
Finally, in relation to encouraging our suppliers to adopt 
sustainable practices, we are reviewing Aviva's suppliers to 
assess them against a ‘CR maturity curve’ and develop relevant 
improvement plans. Aviva's suppliers are asked to sign our code 
of conduct, which provides an obligation to comply with 
relevant standards relating to the environment, ethical business 
conduct and respect for human rights. All regions are making 
good progress in embedding these activities into business 
processes, but we acknowledge that this needs to remain 
a focus area in 2010. 
External benchmarking and recognition 
Our achievements in 2009 were recognised by our inclusion 
in some of the world’s leading external benchmarks: 
— Dow Jones Sustainability World and STOXX Indices 
— SAM sustainability year book 
— FTSE4GOOD Index Series 
— FTSE KLD Europe, Asia Pacific and Global Sustainability 
indices (excluding the US Index) 
— ECPI Ethical Index Euro and Ethical Index Global indices 
— Building Public Trust award for clear and transparent 
reporting of our executive remuneration policy 
— Gold status in Business in the Community’s (BITC) Corporate 
Responsibility Index (2008) and Most Improved Company in 
our sector 
— Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index – score of 80 out 
of 100 
— Carbon Trust Standard – first insurer to receive the standard 
for our year-on-year efforts to reduce our carbon footprint 
— Stonewall Workplace Equality Index – ranked 54th in the top 
100 employers in the UK 
— Ranked in The Times/Aurora top 50 companies – Where 
Women Want to Work. 
Affiliations and engagements 
We work closely with leading organisations to share good 
practice, identify emerging issues and improve our performance. 
Here are just a few of the organisations we collaborated with 
in 2009: 
— CBI Climate Change Board 
— HRH Prince of Wales Accounting for Sustainability 
— ClimateWise 
— UNEP Finance Initiative 
— UN Global Compact (UNGC) and represented on UN 
Principles for Responsible Investment and Caring for Climate 
working groups 
— Business in the Community  73 
Performance review
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued 
Corporate responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
Key indicators Met/exceeded 2009 target  Missed 2009 target 
CR Indicator 2007 2008 2009 2009 target Change over year 2010 target 
Business ethics 
% of employees signing of receipt, — — 90% 100% of employees n/a  100% of employees 
understanding and acceptance of our 
Business Ethics Code annually 
Customers 
% of businesses that met/exceeded — 67% 67% Continue to embed 0%  Develop and test 
performance against local market average customer metrics across Transactional NPS 
Aviva. UK life and guidelines. Pilot Distributor 
general insurance and NPS metric 
Canadian business to 
adopt NPS metrics in 
2009 
% of employees who rate us favourably on — — 67% Meet/exceed GFS New KPI  Increase the percentage 
customer index benchmark of favourable ratings 
(2009: 69%) from employees in 
customer index 
Environment 
% of remaining CO2 emissions offset 100% 100% 100% Offset remaining 0%  Offset remaining CO2 
annually emissions CO2 at emissions at group level 
group level 
CO2 emissions (tonnes) – actual 127,002 122,791 104,351 (15)% 
CO2 emissions (tonnes) – based on 2009 n/a 110,051 104,351 Reduce CO2 emissions (5)% 
Reduce CO2 emissions 
ownership by 5% 
by 5% 
Water consumption (m³) – absolute 851,070* 843,750* 751,750 Reduce water use (11)%  Reduce water use by 4% 
by 4% 
Waste generated (tonnes) – absolute 18,877 19,311 14,592 Reduce waste (24)%  Reduce waste generated 
generated by 4% by 4% 
Proportion of recycled waste 88% 84% 69% 80% or above (15)%  80% or above 
People 
% of women in senior management 22% 22% 22% Increase percentage 0%  Increase percentage of 
of women in senior women in senior 
management group management group 
Suppliers 
Number of business unit suppliers, with — 233 adjusted 438 1,750 adjusted from +205  1,000 
material spend, signing Aviva’s Supplier Code from 983 2,500 
of Conduct 
Number of detailed CR assessments of — 30 in the UK 138 globally 100 globally +108  200 globally 
Aviva’s major suppliers 
Number of business units that have — 5 11 10 +6  18 
implemented and embedded use of ‘Supplier 
Hospitality register’ and ‘Register of Interests’ 
Community 
Amount of community investment £6.8m £9.6m £8.0m Establish and report (17)%  Total community investment 
in line with group at/above previous year 
community strategy 
% of employees participating in volunteering — — 16% New KPI n/a Increase the % of employee 
participation in volunteering 
Number of employee hours spent — 67,700 79,900 Increase the % of +18%  Increase the % of employee 
volunteering employee participation participation in volunteering 
in volunteering 
% of investment in Aviva ‘Street to School’ — — — New KPI 50% 
Notes on KPIs 
— Business ethics: This KPI covers 98% of our employees. 
— Customers: Using our NPS methodology, 67% of businesses met or exceed performance last year against a local market average (2008: 67%). However, within that percentage, 24 markets 
are participating in NPS compared to 12 in 2008 and 58% are exceeding the benchmark, compared to 33% in 2008. 
— Last year we reported the percentage of businesses that met/exceeded performance against local market average where no local benchmark was available (2009: 75%). Businesses that were 
covered by this metric are now all rated against a local market average. This metric has therefore been removed. Also in 2009, we replaced an employee survey question relating to the 
percentage of employees who consider that their business is customer focused with a new customer index KPI. This gives an average favourable employee response against five customer 
indicators. 
— Environment: We want to show clearly that we have reduced our emissions as a result of energy management and behavioural change and not merely due to divestments. The KPI for ‘Actual 
emissions’ are absolute emissions for total Aviva operations in each year stated while the KPI with ‘emissions based on 2009 ownership’ show our emissions over the last two years based on 
operations that we have in 2009 allowing for a like-for-like comparison. Water has been restated following an independent review of Aviva Canada's water consumption between 2006 and 
2008. This has increased the overall Group consumption figures. 
— People: Current and historical data for women in senior management excludes Delta Lloyd group. We also report KPIs relating to employee engagement. These can be found in our online 
CR report: www.aviva.com/corporate-responsibility/reports 
— Suppliers: We adjusted our 2009 target and 2008 return for the number of business unit suppliers signing Aviva’s Supplier Code of Conduct due to a statement of compliance from our business 
in North America which could not be validated by Group Procurement. 
— Community: These KPIs cover all Aviva employees and Aviva joint venture employees. 
Corporate responsibility   
 
 
(128,930) 
 
 
 
 
 
74 
140 
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Accounting for Sustainability 
We also report our performance using Accounting for 
Sustainability’s connected reporting framework, which 
integrates financial and non-financial data to provide a 
comprehensive picture of our impacts. We were one of the first 
companies to help develop the framework and have used this 
approach for environmental reporting in our Annual Report 
and Accounts since 2007. This year we have extended the use 
of the framework further by adding customer and community 
investment indicators. 
We have reported the following indicators: 
(i) Greenhouse gas emissions 
(ii) Waste 
(iii)Resource usage 
(iv)Customer advocacy 
(v) Investing in communities 
i) Greenhouse gas emissions 
Direct company impacts 
Cashflow performance 
CO2 emissions: Total cost of offsetting 105% of our global CO2 
emissions – 104,351 tonnes in 2009 – was in the region of 
£620,000. These CO2 emissions offset on a retrospective basis 
compensate for the carbon output of our consumption of non­
renewable sourced electricity, fugitive emissions from air-
conditioning system gases, gas and oil from buildings and 
business travel. 
We incur up to a 2% premium when purchasing renewable 
electricity in countries where the benefit of the related zero or 
reduced emissions are granted to the purchasing company. At 
the end of our current main UK electricity contract in July 2010 
we will no longer pay a premium for zero emission electricity in 
the UK. Currently 64% (2008: 65%) of our electricity worldwide 
is purchased from zero emission sources. 
Other significant emissions: Our operations do not generate 
material quantities of any other significant greenhouse gases; 
however we are beginning to measure and report on our 
fugitive emissions in line with the Defra Voluntary Reporting 
Guidelines on GHG for Companies. 
Aviva’s CO 2 emissions 000 tonnes 
CO 2 tonnes CO 2 offset CO 2 tonnes per employee 
2.8 
120 2.4 
60 
80 
100 
1.2 
1.6 
2.0 
40 0.8 
20 
,048
5,400
5,400
7,002
0.4
7,002
2,791
2,791
4,351
4,351 
0 64
12
12
12
12
12
12
10
10
0 
05 06 07 08 09 
Aviva plc – operational carbon footprint covering 100% 
of employees 
GHG Emissions data from 1 Jan 2009 to 31 Dec 2009 
Baseline 
Tonnes CO 2e 2009 2008 year 2006 
Scope 1 42,224 61,886 52,847 
Scope 2* 81,994 88,712 90,591 
Scope 3 30,508 26,409 21,952 
Gross CO2 emissions* 154,726 177,077 165,390 
absolute CO2 footprint 104,351 122,791 125,400 
Carbon offsetting (109,568) (132,000) 
Total net emissions (5,217) (6,139) (6,600) 
* Data according to Defra guidelines ie UK electricity rated as grid average but renewable 
recognised in other countries 
Scope 1 – operational emissions from owned sources eg gas, vehicle fleet as part of 
product/service. 
Scope 2 – operational emission from non-owned sources eg electricity. 
Scope 3 – business activity emissions from non-owned sources – eg business travel 
Performance, strategy and targets 
In 2009, our total CO2 emissions decreased with 26 of our 
28 businesses reporting consistently on their footprint and 
applying practices to reduce their emissions. These have been 
achieved by using technologies to dematerialise the carbon in 
the way we work, changing behaviours, and by purchasing zero 
emission and renewable electricity. Through our divestment in 
AutoWindscreens, AGS and Aviva Australia, our footprint 
reduced by 12,740 tonnes. 
Our telepresence facilities were used for 1,030 meetings 
in 2009, a total of 4,927 meeting hours. Over the same period 
our air kilometres (km) reduced by 20% from 105 million km 
to 84 million km. Our telepresence sites are reaching optimal 
utilisation so we have begun to investigate other desktop video 
communication technologies to meet the everyday demands 
of the business. For the first time we ran a virtual HR and CR 
conference using webex facilities, replacing the traditional 
‘venue’ format and reducing costs and emissions associated 
with air travel. Held over five weeks, a total of 1,650 attendees 
joined sessions during the 50-hour conference, using 2,475 
webex hours. The conference enabled us to reach the entire 
global HR and CR community at a significant reduction in cost 
on previous events and this format is now being considered 
by other functions in Aviva.
 The energy-related consumption of our UK data centres 
was included in the outsourcing contract. We put what we 
think is the first green service level agreement into place with 
an onus on our outsourcing partners to report performance in 
terms of energy efficiency, target setting, and standards of 
equipment used must sign up to the EU Code of Conduct for 
Data Centres. Our focus on IT, being an enabler to carbon 
reduction, and the more efficient use of energy in the ICT area 
will continue this year as well as use of new technologies with 
a longer return on investment to help us continue to meet our 
annual and long-term carbon reduction targets. 
In August 2009, we became the first insurance company 
to gain accreditation to the Carbon Trust Standard. This 
provides further independent assurance that we have reduced 
our emissions and, along with installation of Automated Meter 
Readers, it means that our operations have met the early action 
metrics in respect of the UK government’s Carbon Reduction 
Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme. 
The fuel consumption of the RAC fleet has reduced from 
10.3 million litres to 9.1 million litres, a reduction of 11.6%. 
This is due in part to the economic downturn, the use of more 
accurate satellite navigation systems in the vehicles and more 
technical staff in the call centres to talk customers through 
simple repairs. This means they can continue their journey   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
75 
Performance review
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued 
Corporate responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
sooner and breakdown assistance mileage is reduced. We are 
also making use of our local knowledge of reliable garages to 
reduce towing mileage and achieve a comprehensive repair 
quickly. These changes in our processes, together with speed 
limiters and minimising our carrying load, have all reduced the 
carbon intensity of our roadside breakdown service whilst still 
providing the highest level of customer satisfaction. 
Indirect impacts 
We are conscious of the potential impacts that climate change 
has on our business. We constantly update our understanding 
of the effect of these impacts through catastrophe modelling 
tools – using computer-assisted calculations to estimate the 
losses that could be sustained as a result of an extreme weather 
event such as a windstorm or storm surge. In 2009 Aviva was 
represented on the latest ABI Climate Change Research steering 
group which sought to combine catastrophe models with 
climate change models to explore the variation in risk based on 
different temperature scenarios. We consider the financial risk 
climate change poses for Aviva and accordingly build this into 
our levels of capital reserves and risk management processes. 
Further detail on this can be found on page 56. 
We have completed a carbon footprinting exercise for 
the properties we own through our Property Fund managed 
by Aviva Investors for 2008. Under the new UK Government 
Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme, electricity, gas and 
oil used in the properties will be subject to an additional cost 
of £12 per tonne. Aviva Investors’ European Renewable Energy 
and Infrastructure Fund, launched in November 2008, is 
open for investment. The target initial gross assets are set 
at €500 million. 
Industry benchmark information 
— Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index 
Score 80 out of 100 in FTSE Global 500 and FTSE350 
— BREEAM
2
 minimum ranking ’Good‘ for new build and 
refurbishment 
ii) Waste 
Direct company impacts 
Hazardous and non-hazardous waste 
Total disposal cost for hazardous and non-hazardous waste in 
the UK was £748,000 (2008: £629,000), which includes UK 
landfill tax. 
Conservation investment 
Total capital expenditure for storage and recycling in the 
UK was zero (2008: £minimal). 
Aviva’s waste 000 tonnes 
Total waste (tonnes) Recycled (tonnes) 
25 
Total waste per employee (kgs) 
450 
20 360 
15 270 
10 180 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
Performance, strategy and targets 
In 2009, the headline figure for the total volume of waste 
generated globally by Aviva shows a reduction of 24%. 
However, this includes a figure of some 6,000 tonnes, the result 
of divestment of businesses such as Aviva in Australia, AGS and 
AutoWindscreens. When we take divestments into account, 
the actual waste shows a net increase of 9.6%, and this has 
also affected our recycling waste figure which at 69% is short 
of our target of 80%. Our global rebranding to Aviva generated 
rebranding waste; however, we monitored it in the run up to 
the day to ensure it was kept as low as possible. The UK 
business recycled 161 tonnes of obsolete media and 26 tonnes 
of other branded products. Aviva in the USA took the 
opportunity to remove office clutter with a two-day recyclathon, 
which generated 18.5 tonnes of recyclable material – the 
equivalent of 101 m
3
 of landfill space. In 2007 the UK business 
set a zero to landfill target for 2012. This has been delayed due 
to the situation in the Chinese recyclate market and the UK’s 
economic position. We now have this target set for 2015. To 
achieve this we have made some significant changes to our 
waste management model. Where local facilities exist, our 
remaining waste, following segregation in the office, is 
processed via material recycling facilities which provides a 
further 85% recycling rate on our waste in these locations. 
This process will continue to be rolled out in 2010 but it has 
already lifted our recycling rate in the UK from 61% to 74%. 
Indirect impacts 
Products/suppliers/investors 
We are rolling out a ‘repair over replacement’ process in our UK 
accident repair centre network to reduce the proportion of new 
parts used in repairs to customers’ vehicles. 
In Canada, Aviva’s Premiere Auto Network became the first 
National Insurance Direct Repair programme to have all of their 
network repairers waterborne compliant. The new waterborne 
products will reduce volatile organic compounds (VOCs) by 40% 
by 2034. VOCs release fine particulates and ozone into the 
atmosphere. By working with water rather than solvent-based 
products, the reduction will lower the health risk for the paint 
sprayers and other repair shop technicians from contracting 
lung cancer and heart disease. Other procurement initiatives 
include providing alternative recycled-part solutions and paying 
for the disposal of hazardous waste. 
Industry benchmark information 
— 200kg of waste per employee per year 
— Recycling rate of 60–70% (BRE Office toolkit) 
iii) Resource usage 
Direct company impacts 
Water 
The operating cost of water usage was £1.3 million in 2009 
(2008: £944,000). 
Energy Intensity 
Total cost of buildings-related energy in 2009 was £17.7 million 
(2008: £18.2 million). 
Corporate responsibility 
Paper usage
5 
05 
4,911
8,271
12,622
19,719
16,672
18,877
16,222
19,311
10,064
14,592
kg/employee
90 
We currently do not track the cost of paper on a global basis. 
0 
06 07 08 09 
2 Building research establishment environmental assessment methodology 
0   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
76 
860 
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Environmental Incidents 
During 2009 there were no environmental incidents as a result 
of our operations (2008: none). 
Aviva’s water consumption 000 m
3 
Water consumption m
3 
Water consumption m
3
 per employee 
20 
660 
700 
820 16 
780 12 
740 8 
736,455
851,070
843,750
751,750
m 
3 
/employee
4 
0 
06 07 08 09 
Performance, strategy and targets 
Water consumption reduced by 8.8% in 2009, exceeding our 
target of 4%. Whilst the businesses in the UK continued to see 
savings from the water saving devices installed towards the end 
of 2008, Aviva France installed water filters on the bathroom 
taps of Montaigne Head Office in 2009. The filters reduce the 
flow of water by approximately 50% and achieve a reduction 
of around 5% in the total water consumption. This will now 
be rolled out to the regional offices in France. 
Following the very successful use of double sided printing 
in the Group head office, the introduction of duplex printing 
as standard across the UK has resulted in a 20% reduction in 
paper purchased and a 5% volume reduction in the amount 
of office printing. 
Aviva France is currently studying the possibility of using 
paper with a reduced weight at the Montaigne head office in 
order to reduce paper consumption. If this study is successful, 
Aviva will implement this solution throughout its entire network 
in France and will encourage its other subsidiaries to follow. 
When buildings have reached their end of lease or are 
being refurbished, the environmental implications are 
considered. Some businesses like Aviva UK are turning to 
‘space hopping’ (hot desk) solutions. Other Aviva businesses 
are consolidating their property space and as a result are able 
to manage their environmental impact more comprehensively. 
Aviva USA’s purpose-built head office, to be opened in June 
2010, has been rated ‘excellent’ by LEED (Leadership in Energy 
and Environmental Design) and combines four existing offices 
into one. 
Indirect impacts 
Products/suppliers/investors 
The economic situation has meant that companies are 
considering the added value of relationships. Recently we 
engaged with some of our IT providers to see how we can make 
further energy savings and, through conversations with our IT 
supplier Cisco, we learned that we are able to power down our 
desktop phones and other networked IT equipment remotely. 
Continuing with our work around the impact of marketing 
materials, and building on our initiatives to make information 
available electronically and using degradable polywrap for 
literature sent through the post, we will be looking at our 
mailings and working with our distribution partners to 
ensure that our environmental impact in this area is kept 
to a minimum. 
Aviva Canada’s ‘Save Waste, Eliminate Paper’ programme is 
supporting our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint. It focuses 
on eliminating printed policy documents for brokers, saving 
paper, ink, energy and time costs. So far 246 out of 1,855 
brokers have signed up to this programme. 
In France, Aviva’s agents and advisers are able to use 
laptops when with clients to carry out transactions online. 
This has increased the use of the online intranet portal and 
client email database, lowered levels of correspondence by 
paper mail and fax, and has resulted in a reduction in waste 
and increased efficiency for client-company exchanges. 
In Italy, our distributors can use Web-Bancassurance and 
WebAgenti IT support tools which provide online access to our 
legacy system containing the lifecycle of policies from issuance 
to liquidation. These tools have been extended to all 
intermediaries connected with the main banks and also 
to agents. 
Industry benchmark information 
— Water: 7.7m
3
 per employee per year (National Water 
Demand Management Centre) 
— Office Paper: good practice 4,000-5,000 sheets per employee 
per annum (Gartner Research) 
iv) Customer advocacy 
Direct company impacts 
At Aviva, the Net Promoter Score
®
 is our key customer metric. 
This measure is widely regarded as a predictor of future growth, 
with strong correlations to persistency and retention, repeat 
purchase and willingness to recommend. Results to date show 
that advocates are more likely to stay with us and to be more 
profitable over time, suggesting that using this metric to build 
advocacy will have a positive impact on business performance. 
Non financial indicator 
Businesses’ performance vs local benchmark 
Performance v market average 
– Net Promoter Score
© 
% below market average % at or above market average % in upper quartile 
100 
80 
60 
40 
20 
0 
08 09 
Our performance, strategy and targets 
In 2009, we successfully moved to a single global provider of 
our annual relationship and benchmark NPS survey which has 
helped ensure a globally consistent approach to NPS across 
Aviva. Through the Group Remuneration Committee, each 
market is now set improvement targets relative to their local 
benchmark and 10% of our executive directors’ compensation 
is linked to these targets. 
Compared to 2008, we have seen a modest improvement 
in the overall scores, which, given the tough economic climate, 
may be considered a success.   
 
 
  
 
 
 
77 
Performance review
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued 
Corporate responsibility
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
However, the Net Promoter discipline is about much more than 
simply measuring performance; what counts is how we use the 
data to improve the experience for all our customers and this is 
where we are encouraging businesses to place their attention. 
Through 2010 there will be a number of projects across 
Aviva to further embed the NPS discipline into the way we 
do business. These include using the NPS discipline to capture 
the voice of our distributors as well as Transactional NPS, 
which surveys our customers after they ’touch‘ the business 
to understand and fix immediate operational issues. 
Many of our businesses have already integrated Net 
Promoter into the rhythm of how they do business day-to-day. 
By conducting ’closed loop‘ follow-up calls with ‘detractor’ 
customers, our UK health business was able to better 
understand why their customers were unhappy and take action, 
for example, one follow-up call prevented a formal complaint 
and another, by reducing the customer’s premium, retained 
someone who may otherwise have lapsed. 
In 2009 our Aviva India business began working with their 
‘promoter’ customers to generate sales leads. The sales teams 
followed up with these potential customers to discern their 
needs and offer an appropriate product. 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
Employee advocacy 
During 2010 we will be conducting work to understand and 
improve employee advocacy (ie the willingness of our own 
employees to recommend our products) as this will be a key 
driver of customer advocacy. We will report on our findings 
next year in the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts. 
v) Investing in communities 
Direct company impacts 
Our global investment in charitable and community projects in 
2009 was over £8.0 million (2008: £9.6 million). This includes 
cash, time and in-kind donations as well as management costs 
calculated using the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) model
4
. 
Community investment £m 
Community investment Employee volunteering hours 
12 81 
10 78 
8 75 
6 72 
4 69 
000 hours 
Corporate responsibility 
Indirect impacts 2 66 
Our measures to understand the key facets of customer 
0
advocacy feed into a broader need in society to establish a more 
63 
customer focused approach to insurance. This is a key part of 
the recommendations from the Insurance Industry Working 
Group (IIWG) which was co-chaired by Aviva’s CEO, Andrew 
Moss, and Alistair Darling, Chancellor of the Exchequer. The 
IIWG’s report – ‘Vision for 2020’
3 
– was published in July 2009 
and set out recommendations for its members to increase 
consumer confidence and trust in UK insurance and create 
more awareness of consumers’ personal financial responsibility. 
In turn this would encourage the flow of capital into the UK 
insurance industry and ensure its competitive position in the 
global marketplace. 
Consumer attitudes to saving 
Aviva’s global survey of consumer attitudes to savings has run 
for six years, building up a powerful and valuable body of data 
on a range of topic areas such as attitudes to risk, debt, trust, 
financial services providers and pensions. It has been used in 
product development, PR, strategy and lobbying: 
— Malaysia: won significant media attention with the release 
of selected data revealing that a significant majority of 
Malaysians worry about being under-prepared for their 
financial future. 
— France: taking the insight that French customers are 
increasingly risk averse, we developed a product that would 
allow them to invest gradually in equity markets to smooth 
the risk. 
— Singapore: held successful meetings with the Prime Minister’s 
Office and received acknowledgement for their plans to 
organise a workshop aimed at encouraging and educating 
on wellness and shrinking the gap on long-term care. 
07 08 09 
Our performance, strategy and targets 
Our global community investment (CI) strategy, focusing 
on financial literacy, education and life trauma, aligns to 
our corporate vision and channels financial support and the 
expertise of our employees into projects where we can see 
positive societal impacts. Our total community investment 
was £1.6 million lower than in 2008. A number of factors 
contributed, including budget constraints across our businesses 
and the sale of Aviva Australia. We also made exceptional cases 
of higher levels of investment in 2008, including our support 
for the victims of the earthquake in Sichaun province in China. 
Despite challenging conditions, employee volunteering is on 
the increase. 16% of employees participated in volunteering 
programmes in 2009, resulting in 79,900 hours of paid 
employee volunteering. Our target for 2010 is to further 
increase the numbers of employees taking up this opportunity. 
Employee attitudes are measured and benchmarked through 
our annual survey, which this year showed that 62% of 
employees believe that we do a good job of supporting 
the communities where we live and work. 
3 A copy of the IIWG report can be found at: 

http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/fin_insurance_index.htm 4 See www.lbg-online.net for more information 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
78 
Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Last year we launched ‘Street to School’, our five-year initiative 
to get young people off the streets and into education and 
training. The programme is in operation in the UK, Turkey 
and India and has so far involved various employee fundraising 
activities – including over 70% of employees in both India 
and Turkey participating in a salary donation drive. In India, 
Aviva invited all citizens of Delhi on National Education Day 
in November to join them in building a giant wall made entirely 
of books. The books from the wall will be used to educate 
thousands of underprivileged children supported by Save the 
Children India. Over 125,000 books were donated in five days. 
We aim to roll out ‘Street to School’ in all of our markets from 
2010; a challenge for our businesses is to find viable third sector 
partnerships in both developed and developing markets that we 
operate in. By the end of 2010, our target is to invest 50% of 
our global community investment spend on these projects and 
we are now developing a set of impact targets, addressing the 
numbers of young people that have been positively affected 
by the ‘Street to School’ programme. We will publish these in 
our 2010 report. Also in development are linked cause-related 
marketing (CRM) initiatives which will enable our customers 
to engage in the programme in a number of ways, eg donate 
a percentage of their premiums towards the programme. 
Indirect impacts 
‘Street to School’ is still in its infancy but is already generating 
interest and support from stakeholders including prospective 
charitable partners, media, governments and customers. It has 
also generated unprecedented support from employees who are 
motivating their friends and families to get involved with local 
projects. In 2010, we will continue to raise awareness of the 
issue, and provide more education, funding and practical help 
for children living on the margins of society.   
 
79 
Aviva plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Governance 

Performance review 
Corporate responsibility 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
In this section 

80 Board of directors 
82 Executive management 
83 Directors’ report 
87 Corporate governance report 
93 Nomination committee report 
94 Audit committee report 
96 Risk and regulatory committee report 
98 Corporate responsibility committee report 
99 Directors’ remuneration report 
Governance 
