  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 
 
04 
Aviva plc 
Group chief executive’s review Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Andrew Moss 
Group chief executive 
Read more about 
our strategy 
l 06 – 07 
Read more about 
how our regions 
are performing 
l 12 – 18 
Listen to Andrew discuss 
our year in our new 
online review 
Visit Aviva at 
www.aviva.com 
A year of significant 
progress 
I’m pleased with our progress this year. It has been a year of 
strong financial performance and delivery against our strategic 
plans. I’m proud of the way my team has performed and I’m 
confident that by remaining focused on our strategy we will 
make further progress in 2010. 
Aviva has delivered a strong return to profit with IFRS total profit after tax at 
£1,315 million. On an MCEV basis, which takes into account the long-term nature 
of life insurance business, the total profit after tax was £2,935 million compared to 
a loss of £7,707 million in 2008. This rebound in total profits reflects the combined 
effects of a recovery in equity markets, together with our disciplined business 
management and cost control. Operating profit is 12% lower at £2,022 million 
on an IFRS basis and up 3% on an MCEV basis to £3,483 million. 
We have strengthened Aviva’s capital position substantially over the past year 
and IGD solvency surplus, the buffer we hold above our liabilities, has more than 
doubled to £4.5 billion reflecting some bold capital management initiatives and 
a recovery in investment markets. 
We have made excellent progress in the delivery of our strategy, including our 
move to a single brand, the IPO of our Dutch business, the reattribution of the 
inherited estate in the UK and the restructuring of our cost base. 
In driving Aviva forward, we will retain our disciplined approach. We expect the 
external environment to remain unpredictable for some time but are encouraged 
that we saw the first signs of an improved appetite to save among our customers 
in the final quarter of last year. 
We will continue to deliver against the strategy that has helped us to navigate 
the global economic crisis so successfully. We will maximise the value of being a 
single, global group, as we aim to deliver a consistently positive experience for our 
53 million customers around the world. 
Progress 
Creating a global brand has been the most visible sign of ‘One Aviva’ so far. 
We're working hard to ensure it's much more than a name change. 
We're making progress towards delivering ‘twice the value’ – improving the 
way we serve our customers, increasing our efficiency, focusing on profitability, 
removing cost from the business and delivering strong results. 
Regions 
— Successful rebrand to Aviva in the UK 
— Integrating 12 of our businesses in Europe 
— Life assurance portfolio outperforms market in North America 
— Expanded customer reach in Asia Pacific through new bancassurance deals 
— Improved investment and earnings performance for Aviva Investors 
Highlights 
— Improved financial strength with IGD solvency more than doubled in 2009 
— Successful partial sale of Delta Lloyd in the Netherlands for £1 billion 
— Sale of Australian life business 
— £471 million paid to policyholders from reattribution of inherited estate   
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
05 
Aviva plc Group chief executive’s review continued
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 
Q 

How has Aviva performed throughout   

a difficult 2009? 
Like all financial services companies, we have 
been affected adversely, both by market 
volatility and understandable customer caution. 
However, the business has stood up well. This 
is due, in part, to our global diversity, having 
both life and general insurance operations and 
also because of the decisive action we have 
taken through the strategy put in place two 
years ago. 
Several months into 2010, we have made 
great progress in transforming our UK business 
under one team. We are also starting to see 
positive results from the creation of our ‘one 
Europe’ operating model. In North America, the 
life market has been really challenged and it’s 
good to see that coming back. In Asia Pacific, 
despite customers being cautious, we have 
continued to grow our business, particularly 
in China and South Korea. Aviva Investors’ 
investment performance has radically improved 
along with solid earnings. 
Q 
How financially strong 
is Aviva? 
We’ve seen a marked improvement in our 
capital position. Focusing on costs in order to 
improve margins has meant that, whilst we have 
seen volumes drop, we still reported a resilient 
operating profit and a strong balance sheet. 
We have worldwide sales of £45 billion and 
£379 billion of funds under management. 
We are managing our financial risks prudently 
and skilfully. 
Q 
Why did you cut your dividend 
mid-year? 
In light of Aviva’s lower IFRS operating 
earnings, the continuing economic uncertainty 
and our desire to retain flexibility, we felt it was 
the right decision to make. So in spite of it 
being a tough decision, we believe it was the 
right one. 
Q 
Do you remain committed to your 
‘One Aviva, Twice the Value’ strategy? 
We have made good progress towards our 
target this year. If you compare earnings per 
share of 37.8 pence in 2009 with those of 
2008 (a loss of 36.8 pence), it's a great 
improvement. 
In the past 12 months we’ve increased the 
pace of transformation and restructured our 
portfolio, giving us new opportunities to 
redeploy capital to support profitable growth. 
Our senior management team is committed to 
this target and it remains our focus in 2010. 
Performance review 
Corporate responsibility 
Governance 
Shareholder information 
Financial statements IFRS 
Financial statements MCEV 
Other information 
Q 
How is your business 
changing? 
In 2008 we initiated a programme to create 
a simplified and more modern way of doing 
business to improve efficiency and reflect 
customers’ preference to do business online; 
we’ve invested in new technology and 
streamlined our processes. 
This fundamental change in the way we 
operate means our business is now fit for 
the future, with improved capacity and 
productivity. We have reduced our costs by 
£500 million and Aviva has 19% fewer 
employees than two years ago. 
What's really pleasing is that during this 
period our customer satisfaction has improved, 
with nearly 70% of our businesses at or above 
the local market benchmark and 50% are in 
the upper quartile. 
Q 
What are you most proud of 
in 2009? 
I'm most proud of our people: their dedication 
and resilience over the past year has been 
incredible. They've remained focused on what 
we're here for – delivering prosperity and peace 
of mind to our customers – and have done a 
great job. 
I’ve already talked about our financial 
strength and the strategically significant 
achievements in our business. However, none 
of this could have been done without the hard 
work of all of our people around the world. 
Looking forward – how would you
Q 
sum up your priorities for 2010? 
There’s no question that the economic climate 
remains uncertain: 2010 is still challenging but 
I’m confident we have the right team, strategy 
and commitment to make it another successful 
year. We will continue to deliver our strategy, 
maintain our capital strength and focus on the 
profitable growth of our company. 
53 million customers place their business 
with us. That’s a great responsibility and we 
will be working harder than ever in 2010 to 
continue to earn their trust and attract new 
customers to Aviva. 
Andrew Moss 
Group chief executive 
