 Chairman’s 
letter
Dividend (pence)
 21.3p
 +2%
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
21.3
20.9
20.5
20.1
19.5
2016 proved to be a turbulent 
year across the globe with 
unexpected changes occurring 
politically, economically and 
socially, and growing evidence 
of regional instability, terrorism 
and military aggression.
Against this background, governments in 
our major markets – primarily the UK, US, 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Australia 
– continue to prioritise national security 
and remain resolute in their commitment 
to defence expenditure. 
In a period of uncertainty, the Company’s 
consistently strong operational performance 
and success in growing our order backlog to 
£42.0bn were both reassuring and welcome. 
In the UK, we secured our long-term 
position on a number of major programmes 
during 2016. Manufacturing of the Royal 
Navy’s Dreadnought submarines at our 
Barrow-in-Furness facilities commenced in 
September. We secured a contract for two 
further Offshore Patrol Vessels and agreed 
heads of terms reflecting the government’s 
intention to build eight Type 26 complex 
warships at our shipyards on the Clyde 
in Scotland from the summer of 2017. 
These important commitments will provide 
the Royal Navy with state-of-the-art capabilities 
and reinforce our reputation as a world leader 
in engineering and technology. Over the next 
three decades, the programmes will secure 
high-quality employment, not only in Barrow 
and on the Clyde, but in the supply chain 
throughout the UK.
The strength of our maritime business was 
complemented in military air by long-term 
support contracts for the UK Typhoon and 
Hawk fleets, growth in production volumes for 
the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and the selection 
of our UK and Australian businesses to provide 
avionics and components maintenance and 
support for the growing F-35 global fleet. 
Our US land business continues to perform 
well in the export market and rolled out 
the first prototype vehicles for two major 
land programmes – Armored Multi-Purpose 
Vehicles for the US Army and Amphibious 
Combat Vehicles for the US Marines. 
Our investment in a major new dry dock 
facility at our San Diego shipyard, delivered 
in December, will underpin our continued 
position as a major supplier of ship repair 
and support services for the US Navy.
The market for electronic warfare and 
products from our Electronic Systems 
sector remained buoyant. Our cyber, 
intelligence and security capabilities remain 
in high demand in a very competitive market. 
Our US-based Intelligence & Security business 
secured a number of multi-year contracts and, 
in Applied Intelligence, whilst investment in 
future growth inhibited current profitability, 
another year of double-digit sales growth 
across government and commercial divisions 
was encouraging.
 “Another year of 
solid performance.”
Sir Roger Carr Chairman
10
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016 Strategic report
Directors’ report
Financial statements
The management team is aware that, as 
the order book grows, flawless execution 
remains the priority of the day. In meeting this 
objective and delivering customer satisfaction, 
we will continue to respect the growing need 
for high-quality local employment and 
support for national industry, together with 
a keen focus on providing leading capabilities 
at a competitive cost. Our experience in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and India in particular 
has provided the Company with strong and 
proven credentials in this area which we 
believe will be increasingly important in 
securing further orders in the coming years.
Building local capability will require the 
commitment of many of our people in 
supporting the workforce in the region and 
the evidence of our skill in training others is 
visible wherever I visit our teaching centres.
In order to ensure a consistent flow of skilled 
people to meet the demand, we have continued 
to invest in the training of both apprentices 
and graduates. This year, we are training over 
2,000 apprentices in the UK – more than 
ever before.
In December, we celebrated the opening of 
a new £16m Academy for Skills & Knowledge 
adjacent to our military aircraft manufacturing 
facility at Samlesbury as further evidence of 
our commitment to building and sustaining 
the skills pipeline.
In addition, together with other leading 
engineering companies in the UK, we 
contributed to developing a National 
Productivity Improvement Plan with the 
creation of a formal educational productivity 
training programme at Lancaster University 
and sharing best practice with supply 
chain partners.
We believe that, as an international leader in 
engineering, advanced manufacturing and 
technology, we have a responsibility to ensure 
our Company and the nations we serve are 
equipped with the skills and competitive 
strength to succeed in global export markets.
Ensuring we have a continued supply of talent 
is an essential element of long-term business 
planning – as is the need to manage organised 
succession at all levels of the business. In this 
respect, since becoming Chairman, it has been 
necessary to plan for the retirement of Ian 
King who became Chief Executive over eight 
years ago.
In February 2017, we announced that Ian will 
retire from the Company on 30 June 2017, 
after a long and distinguished career of some 
40 years in the defence industry. Ian will retire 
leaving a legacy of disciplined operational 
and financial performance, ethical behaviour, 
a burgeoning order book, a track record of 
delivering shareholder value and a strong 
leadership team. When the time comes later 
this year, he will leave with our thanks and 
best wishes for the future.
The Board also announced that Charles 
Woodburn, Chief Operating Officer, will 
succeed Ian as Chief Executive with effect 
from 1 July 2017. Since joining the Company 
in May 2016, Charles has made an important 
contribution, bringing impeccable engineering 
credentials, broad international experience 
and fresh perspectives to build on our existing 
strengths. In his new role, he will build on 
an enviable inheritance to create an exciting 
future for the Group.
During the course of the year, we aimed 
to build ever stronger relationships with our 
customers, recognising that, in the defence 
sector, we are partners working together 
to protect national interests and security. 
In the US, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
and Australia, engagement with political 
and military leaders has been consistently 
constructive and positive. We continue 
to work closely with the UK government 
and have benefited from their unstinting 
support in our export activities. We have had 
considerable success in our export activities 
and in securing future opportunities – as seen 
most recently in India and Turkey. 
The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia remains 
an important market for the Group, where 
we work as prime contractor to the UK 
government to fulfil its obligations under 
government-to-government agreements on 
defence and security co-operation. Judicial 
Review proceedings into the process followed 
by the UK government in granting defence 
export licences to the Kingdom of Saudi 
Arabia are under way, with a judgment 
expected in the near future.
We are aware of the privileged position we 
enjoy in all our markets and recognise our 
responsibility in driving down costs whilst 
maintaining the highest quality standards. 
In parallel with our determination to build 
competitive strength, we have continued 
to focus our people on the importance of 
safety in what we do and the ethics of 
how we do it.
In both areas we have been pleased that our 
record in the year has demonstrated how deeply 
these principles are embedded in the corporate 
culture as the hallmarks of good business 
practice. Performance-driven, but values-led 
remains at the heart of our business model.
In keeping with many organisations, the 
changing dynamics of financial markets 
have impacted our pension fund deficit 
during the year. The mathematical impact 
of reduced bond yields and low interest rates, 
partially offset by strong asset performance, 
has increased the reported total deficit by 
approximately £1.6bn during the year. Whilst 
the position will fluctuate in keeping with 
international financial markets, our large order 
book, long-term programmes and strong 
franchise positions give confidence in our 
long-term ability to fund our pension schemes, 
capital requirements and shareholder returns.
In view of the Group’s good performance and 
future prospects, the Board has recommended 
a final dividend of 12.7p per share for a total 
of 21.3p per share for the full year, an increase 
of 2% compared to 2015. Subject to 
shareholder approval at the May 2017 Annual 
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid on 
1 June 2017 to holders of ordinary shares 
registered on 21 April 2017.
We were pleased to welcome Elizabeth Corley 
as a non-executive director on 1 February 
2016. Her appointment has further 
strengthened and deepened the expertise 
and experience of our board of directors.
In summary, we have been pleased to 
deliver another year of solid performance 
with sales
1
 of £19.0bn, underlying earnings 
per share
1
 of 40.3p underpinned by an order 
backlog
1
 of £42.0bn. Our cash generation 
has continued to facilitate growth in our 
dividend to 21.3p whilst supporting our 
commitment to our pension fund and 
capital investment programme.
Looking forward, our efforts will be focused 
on the successful execution of the orders 
we have achieved whilst seeking to harvest 
the international export opportunities which 
lie ahead.
It is against this background that we look 
forward to delivering continued strong 
performance in 2017 and beyond.
Sir Roger Carr Chairman
 P06–07
  Alternative performance measure definitions 1. We monitor the underlying financial performance of the Group using alternative performance measures.
11
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016
