 Chief Executive’s 
review
2016 was a good year for 
BAE Systems. The Company 
has performed well despite 
economic and political 
uncertainties, delivering sales 
and order backlog growth. 
Governments in our major 
markets continue to prioritise 
defence and security with 
strong demand for our 
capabilities.
2016 performance
US
Following the two-year Bipartisan Budget 
Act signed in 2015, the defence market 
outlook in the US is improving with 
encouraging signs of a return to growth 
in defence budgets. We are also seeing 
the ramp up of production on a number 
of the Group’s long-term programmes.
Our US electronics business continued 
to perform well, with strong programme 
execution and good order intake enhancing 
positions in the high-technology areas 
of electronic warfare, electro-optics and 
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance. 
As a major supplier on the F-35 Lightning II 
combat aircraft programme, including the 
electronic warfare system, we are well 
positioned on the progressive increases in 
production output planned over the coming 
years to meet the requirements of US and 
international customers.
The Eagle Passive Active Warning Survivability 
System electronic warfare upgrade for US 
Air Force F-15 aircraft is progressing to its 
engineering and manufacturing development 
phase. The Advanced Precision Kill Weapon 
System (APKWS
™
) laser-guided rocket is 
experiencing growing demand and, in 
October, the US Navy awarded a three-year 
Indefinite Delivery, Indefinite Quantity contract 
for Full-Rate Production.
Performance in the commercial electronics 
business continued to be good and our 
all-electric and hybrid power and propulsion 
business delivered growth.
The Group’s US-based combat vehicles business 
is underpinned by the Armored Multi-Purpose 
Vehicle and M109A7 self-propelled howitzer 
contracts. The business is also experiencing 
US and international demand on amphibious 
programmes.
 “A good year for 
BAE Systems.”
Ian King Chief Executive
12
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016 Strategic report
Directors’ report
Financial statements
The US land business delivered good export 
order intake in the period on the back of 
contract awards on Assault Amphibious 
Vehicles to Japan, BvS10 military vehicles to 
Austria, CV90 combat vehicle upgrades for 
Sweden, and M109 and M113 upgrades to 
Brazil, and our weapon systems business was 
awarded contracts for gun systems for the 
Royal Navy Type 26 frigate. The contract for 
M777 howitzers to India under a US Foreign 
Military Sale was signed in January 2017.
FNSS, the Turkish land systems business in 
which BAE Systems holds a 49% interest, 
secured further domestic and international 
orders in the year, and the business holds 
an order book of $1.1bn (£0.9bn).
These long-term contracts, which offer 
opportunities in international markets, 
and our strong franchise in tracked vehicles 
make the land business well placed for a 
return to growth in the medium term.
BAE Systems is a leading supplier of ship 
repair services to the US Navy and continues 
to adjust its workforce and facilities to meet 
evolving demand. Our San Diego operations 
are expected to benefit from enhanced 
Asia-Pacific deployment over the mid-term, 
mitigating the anticipated reduction in activity 
in the East Coast facilities. Additional dry 
dock capacity for the San Diego operations 
became operational in February 2017.
Our US business’s commercial shipbuilding 
contracts have been challenging in the year, 
with further charges taken. Six ships have 
now been accepted and production of the 
remaining two is maturing well with delivery 
and customer acceptance expected in 2017. 
The US business has not contracted for any 
more commercial ship-build.
Whilst market conditions remain highly 
competitive and continue to evolve, our 
US-based Intelligence & Security business 
has performed well, securing good 2016 
order intake including a number of new 
multi-year service contracts.
UK
Our UK-based business continued to perform 
well, benefiting from good programme 
execution and stability in customer 
requirements following the UK Strategic 
Defence and Security Review in 2015.
Whilst the result of the 2016 EU referendum 
in the UK continues to create economic 
uncertainty, good progress has been achieved 
in implementing the Strategic Defence and 
Security Review through long-term contract 
awards and commitments.
In the air domain, Typhoon aircraft deliveries 
for the Royal Air Force and Royal Saudi Air 
Force continued alongside airframe 
sub-assembly deliveries to European partner 
nations. The Oman Typhoon programme is 
on track to commence deliveries in 2017. The 
contract to supply 28 Typhoon aircraft sets for 
the Kuwaiti Air Force is consistent with the 
medium-term production planning assumptions 
announced last year. We have received £1bn 
of order intake on this programme.
Export activity continues to be well supported 
by the UK government and, although there 
can be no certainty as to the timing of orders, 
discussions with current and prospective 
operators of the Typhoon aircraft continue 
to support the Group’s expectations for 
additional Typhoon contract awards.
Typhoon’s capabilities continue to expand, 
with the ongoing integration of the Captor 
E-Scan radar, Storm Shadow, Meteor and 
Brimstone 2 missiles, and development 
towards the Royal Air Force Centurion 
standard. A Typhoon support partnership 
arrangement, expected to be worth at least 
£2.1bn over a ten-year period, was signed 
in July.
UK-based production of rear fuselage 
assemblies for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft 
is increasing at the Group’s advanced 
manufacturing facilities with much of the 
production investment already in place to 
achieve the higher production volumes.
In November, the F-35 Joint Programme 
Office announced that it had chosen the 
UK and Australia as significant repair hubs 
for the maintenance, repair, overhaul and 
upgrade of F-35 Lightning II avionics and 
components. These repair hub assignments 
will support the growing global fleet until 
2025 after which the UK and Australia will 
undertake repairs for the European and 
Pacific fleets, respectively. BAE Systems plays 
a leading role in both the UK and Australia as 
we bring our strong track record of working 
alongside our international customers and 
industry partners to deliver innovative and 
cost-effective sustainment solutions.
 
Our strategy in action
Drive value and growth from our  
defence platforms and services
F-35 Lightning II 
gl oba l s u s tainmen t
 More online
 baesystems.com
We are a key partner in the development, 
manufacture, integration and sustainment 
of F-35 Lightning II, the world’s largest 
defence programme. In 2016, we cemented 
our position as part of the emerging global 
sustainment network to support the aircraft.
In the US, we are the Electronic Warfare, 
Vehicle Management Computer and Active 
Inceptor System provider. In addition, we 
are part of the Integrated Test Force team, 
providing support activities, including fleet 
management, maintenance, repair and 
overhaul, spares, software development 
and support, and training.
In the UK, we will carry out maintenance 
and upgrade services for avionics and 
aircraft components, alongside our partners, 
as a European repair hub. We are also 
delivering engineering, management and 
training facilities in preparation for the 
arrival of the aircraft in the UK.
In Australia, we will be responsible for 
airframe maintenance, repair, overhaul 
and upgrade in the South Pacific for 
F-35 Lightning II aircraft operating in the 
region from 2018. We will also provide 
maintenance, repair, overhaul and upgrade 
services for F-35 avionics and aircraft 
components working alongside our 
industry partners.
13
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016 Chief Executive’s review 
continued
A long-term Hawk support contract in the 
UK was announced in the year and support 
was maintained to the Indian Hawk 
programme with the supply of materiel 
and engineering services.
The unmanned air systems activity benefited 
from the announcement by the UK and French 
governments of a new €2bn (£1.7bn) project 
to build unmanned combat air system 
demonstrators following a successful joint 
feasibility study.
In Turkey, following a pre-contract study phase 
between BAE Systems and Turkish Aerospace 
Industries, we have signed a heads of 
agreement to collaborate on the first design 
and development phase of an indigenous 
fifth-generation fighter jet for the Turkish Air 
Force. When on contract, this will have a value 
in excess of £100m.
In the maritime domain, submarine activity is 
increasing with the Astute and Dreadnought 
Class submarines now both in production. 
The first three Astute Class submarines are in 
operational service with the Royal Navy and 
the remaining four boats in build. 
The UK government’s commitment to the 
Dreadnought programme was endorsed 
by Parliament during the year. Funding was 
received for the continued design, initial 
manufacture of the first boat, material 
commitment and facilities investment for 
the major redevelopment of the Barrow site. 
The Ministry of Defence, BAE Systems and 
Rolls-Royce have signed a heads of terms to set 
up a Dreadnought Build Alliance documenting 
the UK government and industry’s commitment 
to the delivery of the Dreadnought Class 
submarine programme, the replacement for 
the Royal Navy’s Vanguard Class submarine 
fleet, and setting out an organisational and 
managerial structure and series of commercial 
principles necessary to deliver it.
The Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier 
programme progresses with assembly of the 
second ship well under way. Preparations for 
sea trials on the first of class vessel in 2017 
are maturing and activity to support entry 
into service is expanding.
In preparation for the manufacturing 
phase, an extension to the Type 26 frigate 
demonstration phase contract was secured 
in March and, under a heads of terms signed 
in November, BAE Systems and the Ministry 
of Defence reached agreement on the 
intention to build eight Type 26 ships on the 
Clyde, with a cut-steel date in summer 2017. 
Two additional River Class Offshore Patrol 
Vessels were also contracted for in December. 
Build of the first three Offshore Patrol Vessels 
is progressing well, with sea trials for the first 
ship planned in the second quarter of 2017.
International
In the 50th year of its presence in Saudi 
Arabia, BAE Systems continues to address 
current and potential new requirements as 
part of the long-standing agreements between 
the UK government and the Kingdom. Our 
In-Kingdom Industrial Participation programme 
also continues apace.
An agreement has been reached with the 
Saudi Arabian government for BAE Systems 
to continue to provide support services to 
the Royal Saudi Air Force and Royal Saudi 
Naval Forces under the Saudi British Defence 
Co-operation Programme for a further 
five years.
On the Salam Typhoon programme, the 
remaining four of the contracted 72 aircraft 
will be delivered in 2017. Deliveries have 
commenced under the Hawk aircraft 
contract signed in 2012. The Royal Saudi 
Air Force has achieved high utilisation and 
aircraft availability across its Typhoon, 
Tornado and training aircraft fleets.
In Australia, the business is stable. The 
rationalisation of the Williamstown shipbuilding 
facility and cost-reduction actions taken across 
the wider business in 2015 are complete. 
Long-term sustainment and upgrade contracts 
were received for the Anzac Class frigates and 
F-35 Lightning II aircraft. 
 
Our strategy in action
Continuously improve efficiency  
and competitiveness
Dreadnought 
Class submarine 
production
© Crown copyright
 More online
 baesystems.com
BAE Systems has entered into a heads 
of terms with the UK Ministry of Defence 
and Rolls-Royce to develop an alliance 
to deliver the UK’s four new ballistic 
missile-carrying submarines. Such an 
alliance structure would draw on best 
practice between government and 
industry, with the aim of driving 
continuous improvement, efficiencies 
and programme performance.
Following £1.3bn of funding from the 
UK government, we started production 
on the first Dreadnought Class submarine, 
Dreadnought, in September. The 
programme already employs more than 
2,600 people across the Ministry of 
Defence and industry, including 1,800 
at BAE Systems, and to date we have 
worked with more than 100 suppliers, 
with 85% based in the UK.
In India, BAE Systems has a long-standing 
relationship with Hindustan Aeronautics 
Limited (HAL). Delivery of the second batch 
of HAL-built Hawk aircraft was completed in 
the year and an order for a further batch from 
the Indian Air Force is being negotiated.
In November, the US and Indian governments 
signed a Letter of Agreement for the Foreign 
Military Sale of 145 M777 lightweight 
howitzers and, in January 2017, we received 
the $542m (£439m) contract from the US 
government to supply these howitzers to 
the Indian Army. As previously announced, 
Mahindra & Mahindra will be our supplier 
to establish an assembly, integration and 
test facility in India as further support for 
the ‘Make in India’ initiative.
The MBDA joint venture won significant 
order intake on air, maritime and land 
platforms in the year, including a number 
of contracts supporting the UK’s complex 
weapons requirements and significant 
export awards. Building on its already 
large order book, good growth in MBDA 
is expected over the medium term.
14
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016 Strategic report
Directors’ report
Financial statements
Cyber security
Applied Intelligence achieved double-digit 
order intake and sales growth. Ongoing 
investment in engineering capabilities, 
product development and marketing costs, 
all expensed, continues to support the future 
growth profile for the business.
Cyber security is becoming an important part 
of government security and a core element of 
stewardship for commercial enterprises.
Balance sheet and capital allocation
The Group’s balance sheet is managed 
conservatively in line with its policy to retain its 
investment grade credit rating and to ensure 
operating flexibility. Consistent with this 
approach, the Group expects to continue to 
meet its pension obligations, invest in research 
and technology and other organic investment 
opportunities, and plans to pay dividends in 
line with its policy of long-term sustainable 
cover of around two times underlying earnings 
and to make accelerated returns of capital to 
shareholders when the balance sheet allows. 
Investment in value-enhancing acquisitions 
will be considered where market conditions 
are right and where they deliver on the 
Group’s strategy.
Pension schemes
The Group’s share of the pre-tax accounting 
net pension deficit has increased by £1.6bn 
from 31 December 2015 to £6.1bn mainly 
reflecting an increase in liabilities due to a 
1.2 percentage point reduction in the real 
discount rate to −0.5% in the UK, partly 
offset by returns on scheme assets.
The next UK triennial funding reviews will 
commence in April 2017 and, in conjunction 
with the trustees of the schemes and other 
stakeholders, the Group will be looking 
at various options with a focus on the 
longer-term view.
Responsible business 
We continue to build a culture where 
our senior leaders and employees are 
empowered to make the right decisions 
and to know where to go for help. During 
2016, we rolled out further ethics training 
across the Group to support employees.
The safety of our employees, and anybody 
who works on, or visits, our sites, remains 
a key priority. We provide training and tools 
to employees to help them understand the 
importance of a safe workplace. There was 
a 21% reduction in the Recordable Accident 
Rate in 2016, representing an improvement 
against target. In addition, there was a 26% 
reduction in the total number of major injuries 
recorded in the year as we continued to focus 
on reducing risk and embedding safety culture 
to drive improvement.
Attracting and retaining talented employees 
helps us to sustain our competitive edge. 
We encourage our employees to reach their 
full potential within a diverse and inclusive 
work environment. We have programmes in 
place across the business to support strategic 
workforce planning, career development 
and retention, as well as to improve diversity 
and inclusion.
Summary
Our business benefits from a large order 
backlog, with established positions on 
long-term programmes in the US, UK, 
Saudi Arabia and Australia. Our clear and 
well-defined strategy has guided us through 
a period of difficult market conditions. 
As the overall business environment in 
our major markets improves and through 
execution of our strategy, we are well 
placed to maximise opportunities, deal with 
the challenges and continue to generate 
attractive shareholder returns.
Ian King Chief Executive
 P16
 Group strategic framework
15
BAE Systems 
|
 Annual Report 2016
