 Our products and services 
Building a strong brand 
 across our services
The structure of our business
Bank of Georgia Holdings is a UK-Incorporated holding 
company of JSC Bank of Georgia, representing the Bank’s 
ultimate parent company and together with the Bank’s 
subsidiaries making up a group of companies. BGH was 
incorporated under the laws of England and Wales in 
October 2011 and became the parent holding company 
of the Group on 28 February 2012 upon the successful 
completion of the tender offer by BGH whereby it acquired 
98.35% of the issued share capital of Bank of Georgia 
(“Tender Offer”). On the same day, the shares of BGH  
were admitted to the premium listing segment of the 
 Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading  
on the London Stock Exchange plc’s Main Market for  
listed securities (“LSE”). 
Bank of Georgia
Bank of Georgia is a commercial bank established in 
December 1994 under the laws of Georgia. The Bank is 
the Group’s main operating unit and accounts for most  
of the Bank’s activities. 
Bank of Georgia is the leading bank in Georgia based 
on total assets (with 36.7% market share), total gross  
loans (with 35.4% market share), total client deposits  
(with 33.1% market share) and equity (with 39.7% market 
share) as of 31 December 2012. As the country’s largest 
lender, Bank of Georgia provides a broad range of banking 
products and services to more than one million clients  
in its distribution network of 194 branches, 478 ATMs,  
221 Express Pay terminals, a full-service remote banking 
platform and a modern call centre. The Group also provides 
leasing, asset and wealth management, insurance and 
brokerage services to its clients in Georgia. 
The Group’s activities are organised into three main 
businesses that are strategic, synergistic and non-core. 
Strategic businesses comprise Retail Banking, Corporate 
Banking provided by Bank of Georgia as well as Asset  
and Wealth Management (“AWM”). Synergistic businesses 
comprise Insurance and Healthcare and Affordable Housing. 
Non-core businesses are banking operations in Belarus 
through Belarusky Narodny Bank (“BNB”), and Joint Stock 
Company Liberty Consumer (“Liberty Consumer”), a 
Georgia-focused investment company. 
Retail Banking
Bank of Georgia operates the largest retail bank in Georgia, 
with market share of 32.4%, based on loans to individuals 
and a 30.6% based on deposits from individuals as of  
31 December 2012. Retail Banking, the largest provider  
of personal loans in the country, provides services to more 
than one million clients in Georgia and more than 2,000 
sales forces assist clients with their checking, savings 
accounts, money-transfers, mortgage loans, consumer 
loans, micro and SME business loans, Point of Sale (“POS”) 
loans, automobile loans, pawn loans and other banking  
services through 194 branches across the country. 
Corporate Banking
Corporate Banking is the country’s largest corporate lender 
and delivers extensive sector knowledge, local expertise and 
dedicated service to more than 7,600 corporate clients in 
Georgia. Corporate Banking extends loans and other credit 
facilities to its corporate clients representing various sectors 
of the economy, which, among others, include retail and 
wholesale trade, industry and state, pharmaceuticals and 
healthcare. Corporate Banking provides leasing services 
through the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary Georgian 
Leasing Company (“GLC”) and encompasses the country’s 
leading trade finance business and most recently launched 
Research Department.
Asset and Wealth Management
Bank of Georgia’s Asset and Wealth Management business 
attracts deposits from wealthy local and international clients. 
AWM clients include institutions and high net-worth individuals 
from more than 60 countries. In line with the Group’s strategy 
of expanding the sale of wealth management products and 
services internationally, the Bank has set up representative 
offices in Tel Aviv, London and Budapest which provide 
information services to Asset and Wealth Management clients. 
Overview: At a glance
6 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012  37%
*
Bank of Georgia  
market share as of  
31 December 2012
 34%
*
Aldagi BCI market  
share as of 
30 September 2012
Aldagi BCI (Insurance and Healthcare)
The Group provides insurance and healthcare products and 
services through its wholly-owned subsidiary Aldagi BCI. 
Aldagi BCI’s healthcare business consists of ‘My Family 
Clinic’, Georgia’s leading healthcare provider, operating a 
chain of healthcare centres in Georgia in line with the 
Group’s strategy of vertically integrating its insurance and 
healthcare businesses. Aldagi BCI is Georgia’s leading 
provider of life and non-life insurance products, based on a 
market share of 33.1% of the life and 33.5% of the non-life 
insurance markets as of 30 September 2012 (based on 
gross insurance premium revenue). Its healthcare operation 
owns and operates 6 outpatient clinics and 26 hospitals in 
Georgia, predominantly in Western Georgia. 
Affordable Housing
The Affordable Housing business consists of the Group’s 
wholly owned subsidiary m2 Real Estate (formerly SBRE), 
which develops and sells affordable residential apartments 
and also holds investment properties repossessed by  
the Bank from defaulted borrowers and manages those 
properties. m2 Real Estate business is in place to support 
the Group’s strategic retail mortgage lending business and  
to capitalise on the current unsatisfied demand for affordable 
housing stock in Tbilisi. The Group outsources the construction 
and architecture works and focuses on project management 
and sales, which is supported by the Bank’s well-established 
brand name and superior distribution channels assisting it  
in marketing its properties and mortgage products.
Non-core
The Group’s non-core businesses comprise Belarusky BNB 
the Group’s subsidiary in Belarus and Liberty Consumer. 
Through BNB the Group provides retail banking and 
corporate banking services in Belarus. Most of the Group’s 
other investments are held through Liberty Consumer, a 
Georgia-focused investment company in which the Bank 
holds a 67% stake. In order for the Group to focus on its 
strategic businesses, the Group intends to exit from its 
other non-core operations, including Liberty Consumer  
and, in due course, its interest in BNB.
For the full list of JSC Bank of Georgia subsidiaries please 
see Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
* Market share data throughout the Annual Report is based on the 
information provided by the National Bank of Georgia (“NBG”). For Bank 
of Georgia, market share represents market share based on total assets  
on a standalone basis, as of 31 December 2012, unless noted otherwise. 
For Aldagi BCI, market share is provided based on the gross insurance 
premium revenue as of 30 September 2012.
Share in the Group’s consolidated assets
 Affordable Housing 2% 
 BNB 3%
 Retail Banking, Corporate Banking 
 and Asset and Wealth Management 
 (Bank of Georgia) 87% 
 Insurance and Healthcare 
 (Aldagi BCI) 6%
 Other 2%
 1,063,207 
Total number of customers 
across our Georgian banking 
businesses in 2012
Retail Banking 
Building customer-driven franchise 
through segment approach, while 
shifting customers to electronic 
channels to capture an unbanked 
portion of the population and 
improve efficiency 
Asset and Wealth  
Management 
Aims to build regional  
asset management business  
on the existing wealth  
management platform
Insurance and Healthcare 
Aldagi BCI, the leading vertically 
integrated healthcare and 
insurance service provider to 
capitalise on the rapidly growing 
insurance and healthcare 
markets in Georgia through the 
Group’s superior network and 
cross selling capabilities
Corporate Banking 
Having achieved leadership  
in corporate banking sector,  
the Corporate Banking business 
is focused on fee generating 
business including advisory  
services 
Affordable Housing 
Supporting the Group’s strategic 
mortgage lending business while 
capitalising on high demand 
for housing
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 7
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Prod
Loans/GDP
40
30
20
10
0
31.8% 33.4%
30.2%
28.8%
31.4%
27.0%
14.9%
9.8%
9.2%
03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
19.4%
Offering a new type  
of banking through  
constant product  
innovation
Bank of Georgia customers can use 194 bank branches, 
478 ATMs and 221 Express Pay terminals across the 
country as well as online and mobile services.
In a short time, we have made dramatic progress  
in providing customers with a great banking  
experience through innovative technology and  
client-oriented services.
For more information about  
Express Banking see
Pg 39
Source: NBG
8 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 ducts
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 9
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
