 BANK OF GEORGIA ENJOYED ANOTHER 
YEAR OF RECORD RESULTS AND THIS 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS  
WILL PROVIDE THE DETAILS ABOUT  
OUR STRATEGY, EXECUTION AND 
OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL 
PERFORMANCE. IN THIS YEAR’S LETTER 
I WOULD LIKE TO FOCUS ON GEORGIA 
AND SUMMARISE DEVELOPMENTS IN 
THE YEAR 2013, WHICH CAPS THE MOST 
FORMATIVE DECADE IN THE COUNTRY’S 
RECENT HISTORY. 
Ten years ago, Georgia embarked upon  
a path of transforming its Soviet-legacy 
political and economic system into a 
market-oriented democracy. As the Group’s 
Board Chairman for nearly four years, I have 
had a remarkable opportunity to observe 
and appreciate how Georgia succeeded in 
tackling the main challenge for a post-Soviet 
country – corruption, virtually eliminating  
the country’s Soviet-era bureaucracy and 
replacing it with efficient and functioning 
administrative bodies. Among the most 
noteworthy free-market-oriented reforms 
behind Georgia’s economic success were 
simplification of the tax regime, cutting red 
tape, creating business and an investor 
friendly environment. We became witnesses 
to how effectively these measures translated 
into the turnaround of the country’s economy 
and the evolution of the private sector into a 
dynamic business environment. Georgia’s 
liberal economic regime and ample growth 
CHAIRMAN’S
LETTER
For more information about our 
governance, see page 66
4
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 
Annual Report 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
OVERVIEW:  
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Source: Geostat
11.1
5.9
9.6
9.4
12.3
2.3
-3.8
6.3
7.2
6.2
3.2
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
Real GDP growth rate, % 
opportunities have been attracting foreign 
direct investment and pleasantly surprising 
foreign visitors, the number of which grew 
from a mere 300,000 in 2003 to an 
estimated 5.4 million in 2013, exceeding  
the 4.5 million population of Georgia.  
Quite impressively, Georgia enjoyed an 
average annual growth of 5.9% of its real 
GDP from 2004 to 2013. 
Excluding the Eastern European states, 
Georgia started 2013 as the first post-Soviet 
country to change power through peaceful 
and democratic parliamentary elections. 
These elections were held in October 2012. 
The change of power through elections was 
a new experience for Georgia’s young 
democracy. 2013 was also a transitional 
year from a presidential to a parliamentary 
system of government, which came into 
force with the Presidential elections at the 
end of October 2013. Georgia’s Presidential 
elections were the most free and uneventful 
elections for the country during its two 
decades of independence. Although the 
composition of the new Parliament, with  
an effective opposition, stalled decision-
making processes and therefore, economic 
growth for the most part of the year, it has, 
more importantly, resulted in greater political 
pluralism, debate in the Parliament and 
overall involvement of the non-governmental 
sector, which are essential components of  
a functioning democratic state.
It pleases me to note that despite the 
challenges associated with the transitional 
period and the change of power, last year 
has demonstrated the sustainability of  
the earlier reforms, institutional strength  
and the maturity of the Georgian society. 
Democratic values and practices have 
become a norm for businesses and society 
in general. Government’s effectiveness 
during the transition year is evidenced  
by the continued tight grip on corruption, 
further improvements in the business 
environment and stepping up the overdue 
reform of the judicial system. With the 
elections and the uncertainties associated 
with them left behind, the return of 
Government investment into the economy 
and increase in business and consumer 
confidence has led to recovery of economic 
growth with 7.1% real GDP growth in the 
fourth quarter of 2013 and 6.7% average 
growth rate in the first two months of 2014. 
Georgia has come a very long way since 
2003, and 2013, with its remarkable 
breakthrough in the political sphere has set 
the stage for Georgia’s further development, 
building upon the achievements and 
strengths of the previous years to ensure  
its economic progress and the continuing 
modernisation of the country. To this end, 
one of the key encouraging signs that  
I would like to point out is the enactment of 
the Economic Liberty Act as of 1 January 
2014, which will ensure the continuation of 
the country’s credible fiscal and monetary 
policy framework. In addition, Georgia is 
expected to strongly benefit from the 
signing of the Association Agreement  
with the European Union, expected in  
June 2014. This agreement is expected  
to include a deep and comprehensive  
free trade agreement that should support 
Georgia’s economic development and bring 
the country closer to the West. This may  
be the most interesting time for Georgia,  
the Georgians and for those who are  
investing in Georgia’s future. 
Bank of Georgia, the country’s market- 
leading franchise, is in the right place at  
the right time to play an important role in 
Georgia’s unfolding progress and benefit 
from the economic development of the 
country. We believe in the effectiveness of 
our business model and the ability of the 
management team to execute our strategy 
and continue delivering high-quality 
diversified growth. 
In conclusion, as a Chairman of the Board 
of Directors, I would like to note the 
changes we made on our Board in line  
with our commitment to the continuous 
improvement of our corporate governance 
practices. In 2013, the Board of Directors  
of BGH resolved to ensure that our  
Non-Executive Board members would all  
be fully independent under UK standards. 
As a result, two Non-Independent Directors, 
Ian Hague and Hanna Loikkanen resigned, 
as did Allan Hirst, an Independent Director 
also left the Board after a nine-year tenure. 
We are deeply grateful for the devoted 
services of all three. They have been 
replaced with three new Independent 
Non-Executive Directors – Bozidar Djelic, 
Tamaz Georgadze and Kim Bradley.  
Please refer to the Governance section  
of this Annual Report or our website to read 
about the array of experience and skills 
these three individuals bring to our team.
I would like to thank my fellow Board 
members for their support and commitment 
and congratulate the management team for 
the strong performance in 2013 and I look 
forward to new achievements in 2014.
Neil Janin
Chairman
10 April 2014 
New Board Members
Left to right:
Bozidar Djelic 
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tamaz Georgadze
Independent Non-Executive Director
Kim Bradley
Independent Non-Executive Director
Overview 1-9 Strategic Review 10-27 Performance 28-63 Governance 64-103 Financial Statements 104-182 Additional Information 183-188
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 
Annual Report 2013 5
