 Chairman’s introduction
Restoring Balfour Beatty to strength
The 2016 results demonstrate that the Build to 
Last transformation programme is delivering 
positive change and we now have a solid 
foundation for future profitable growth. 
By focusing on our selected markets, we have 
been winning new business on improved 
terms, the legacy issues which have held back 
the Group are being steadily worked through 
and we have maintained one of the strongest 
balance sheets in the sector. Importantly, for 
many shareholders, we reinstated payment of 
a dividend.
The UK and US Governments have both stated 
their commitment to significant additional 
improvements to core infrastructure; our 
clients are supportive of our transformation 
and we have a talented and dedicated 
workforce. We also have the confidence that 
our strengths are now underpinned by the 
improved governance and controls which  
have been put in place during the first phase  
of Build to Last.
Performance
Balfour Beatty has maintained its disciplined 
approach to bidding for, and winning, new 
business. This involves ensuring that work 
we take on is of the type we want to do, 
in the geographies that we have chosen to 
concentrate. In short, this is about bidding for 
long-term profitable work rather than chasing 
revenue growth.
As a result – underlying revenue for 2016 
is up 4% in absolute terms, at constant 
exchange rates (CER) there is a 3% reduction. 
Nevertheless, the year-end order book stands 
at £12.7 billion – a rise of 15% (4% at CER) over 
the course of the year. 
The year also saw the business return 
to profit after two years of heavy losses. 
Underlying profit from operations was 
£67 million (statutory profit from operations 
£15 million). Whilst the UK construction 
business made a loss for the full year, the 
division made a modest profit in the second 
half, demonstrating the positive trend required 
as we enter 2017.
Once again, our Investments portfolio 
continued to perform strongly, delivering both 
cash and profit to the Group, whilst maintaining 
the value of the asset portfolio.
The benefits of the Build to Last transformation 
programme are visible in the financial 
performance of the Group. As the benefits 
of the simplified structure, upgraded 
management and improved systems and 
controls continue to work through, I am 
confident that the performance of the Group 
will continue on this trajectory.
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016
02 “
By focusing on our selected 
markets, we have been winning 
new business on improved  
terms, the legacy issues which 
have held back the Group are 
being steadily worked through 
and we have maintained one  
of the strongest balance sheets 
in the sector. 
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
Markets
The strengthening of Balfour Beatty’s 
operational processes coincides with the 
governments in our core markets, the UK and 
US, laying out plans for wide-scale investment 
in improved infrastructure.
The UK Government has reaffirmed its 
commitment to HS2 and new nuclear power 
stations in addition to a general increase in 
infrastructure spending announced in the 
Autumn Statement. The Group is working 
constructively with industry bodies and the 
UK Government to identify and manage any 
direct challenges caused by the UK’s exit from 
the European Union. At this stage we have 
not seen an impact on the building market; 
however we remain vigilant to respond to any 
changes in market conditions.
In the US, the new administration has highlighted 
infrastructure repairs and improvements as one 
of its priorities, building on the US$305bn of 
spending authorised by the Fixing America’s 
Surface Transportation (FAST) Act.
In both the UK and the US, we continue to 
see growing opportunities for our Investments 
business to finance and deliver projects both in 
the private and public sectors.
The Board
It is with great sadness that I report, Graham 
Roberts, who had served on the Board since 
2009, passed away in July. Graham was a 
highly valued colleague and I would like to 
place on record my thanks to him and our 
condolences to his family.
Maureen Kempston Darkes will be retiring 
from the Board at the AGM. Maureen has 
served since July 2012 and chairs our Safety 
and Sustainability Committee and I thank her 
for her service.
We are in the middle of our Board renewal 
phase and are looking in the coming months 
to the appointment of up to three new non-
executive Directors. I consider the balance of 
the disciplines and diversity on the Board to be 
most important and believe a well-structured 
Board is essential in setting the agenda for the 
Group’s future.
Our people
As we have seen from the progress that has 
been made by Balfour Beatty during 2016, 
this is a period of immense change within the 
business. This can only be achieved due to the 
hard work and dedication of so many of our 
colleagues. As I visit sites in the UK and US, I 
am continually delighted to see the enthusiasm 
and dedication of our team as they strive 
to deliver amazing projects for our clients. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank all 
of our employees for the commitment they 
have again shown this year.
Much of the work that Balfour Beatty 
undertakes is inherently dangerous. So it 
is crucial that at every level in our business 
we look to understand and mitigate the 
risks. Our objective is to reduce accidents 
to zero. Where incidents occur they are 
fully investigated and steps are taken to 
avoid repetition. We understand our safety 
responsibilities to everyone that Balfour 
Beatty comes into contact with – workers, 
subcontractors, suppliers, clients and 
members of the public. We do all we can to 
ensure that everyone is kept safe.
During the year, five people were killed whilst 
working on Balfour Beatty’s projects: one 
in each of the UK and US and three in the 
Far East. I use this letter to formally send 
condolences to their families on behalf of the 
Board. However, I recognise that words are 
inadequate to express our regret that five 
families are living with the consequences 
of bereavements. Each of these deaths is a 
reminder as to why we must never cease to 
make our industry safer.
Dividend
This year has demonstrated continued 
progress in restoring Balfour Beatty to financial 
strength. The Build to Last Phase One targets 
of £200 million cash in and £100 million 
cost out have been comfortably exceeded. 
In addition we have a growing order book. 
As a result the Board were able to reinstate 
a dividend at the half year and commit to 
a progressive dividend policy. We have 
recommended a final dividend of 1.8p, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 2.7p. 
Conclusion
As you read this Annual Report, you will be 
able to see evidence of the positive change 
which is happening across the Group. 
Whilst there remains much to be done in order 
to get Balfour Beatty to its full potential and to 
finally put all the legacy challenges behind us, 
your company enters 2017 better positioned 
than has been the case for many years.
Philip Aiken AM
Chairman
balfourbeatty.com/AR2016
Governance Financial Statements Other Information 03 Strategic Report
