 Our response to this changing and challenging environment in 
2015 is to stay disciplined, until we get some clarity in terms of Lari 
stability and economic growth picking up.
1.   Credit and liquidity risk management: On the credit risk 
side, we are applying stricter underwriting standards and will be 
slightly increasing interest rates on loans. At the same time, we 
are proactively re-profiling US Dollar loans to clients with non-US 
Dollar income. Re-profiling implies effectively increasing the 
tenor of the loan so that monthly payment in Lari stays at the 
same level as it was prior to the recent devaluation of the Lari. 
When re-profiling, we do not change the interest rate of the loan. 
In Retail Banking, our mortgage loan clients are most likely to 
apply for re-profiling, as in total we have 7,500 mortgage loans 
worth of GEL 400 million which are US Dollar loans to Retail 
Banking clients with non-US Dollar income. We consider 
re-profiling applications from our corporate, SME and micro 
borrowers on a case-by-case basis. So far 413 loans totalling 
GEL 35 million have been re-profiled. 
  Even though Bank of Georgia enjoys high liquidity and its positive 
liquidity gap up to six months is GEL 1 billion, we are now working 
with a number of Development Financial Institutions (DFI) to arrange 
further long-term loans to improve our Net Loan to Deposits + DFI 
funding ratio. Because the Euro influence on Lari is increasing and 
the Lari is effectively becoming a Euro proxy, we will be targeting  
to raise Euro funding and try to shift US Dollar loans into Euros.
2 .  Cos t s : Being extra cost conscious in a volatile environment is  
the right thing to do. At the same time we are accelerating the 
integration of the merger with Privatbank in order to start 
extracting cost synergies sooner than originally planned. 
3 .  I n v es t m e nt s : Even though we believe that the Lari has found 
its new equilibrium, we will further observe the Lari’s stability over  
a period of time, before we step up investment activities. During 
this period, we will remain vigilant and will continue to actively 
analyse and consider different opportunities. 
4.  C a pi t a l e x pe ndi t u r e : For our banking operations we are 
targeting capital expenditure at a lower level than our depreciation 
charge. Our key projects for 2015 are Privatbank integration 
(which is not taking much capital expenditure), our Solo roll out  
(a key driver for our capex budget) and further investment in our  
IT infrastructure, to increase the reliability of our system. In the 
Healthcare Business, we will be pursuing a quite aggressive 
capex programme, and will concentrate most of it on new 
equipment purchases and developing high-margin businesses.
We upgraded our strategy from “3x20” to “4x20”
In December 2014 we upgraded our strategy from “3x20” to “4x20” 
– the 4th 20% being the minimum level of IRR we target from 
investments in Georgian corporates. The goal with this upgraded 
strategy is to create sustainable high returns and high growth 
generating a strong platform for our shareholders. With this model 
we are targeting to generate ordinary dividends from the Banking 
Business and continuous special dividends from the Investment 
Business. Both businesses are Georgia focused, where average real 
GDP growth rate was 6.3% from 2003–2014. Most importantly the 
current management team knows Georgia extremely well as a result 
of running the largest bank in the country for the past 10 years and 
the team has demonstrated a track record of successful growth in 
non-banking businesses such as healthcare and real estate. 
 
Why we upgraded our strategy to “4x20”, when at  
first glance all looked good with a “3x20” strategy?
Our key goal is to continue producing high returns in the long  
run for our shareholders. Currently, we see that Retail Banking is 
Dear shareholders,
We have posted yet another record year in terms of profit and 
Earnings Per Share in 2014. You can read about our strong financial 
performance in this Annual Report. In this letter, rather than focusing 
on the past, in view of our upgraded strategy and recent regional 
currency tensions, I would like to focus on three key issues:
1. Regional macro tensions and our response to it.
2. Our upgraded strategy.
3. The way we want to conduct our investment business.
We stay disciplined in the light of a weaker 2015 
macro outlook
With the oil price decrease and the strength of the US Dollar,  
we are witnessing significant changes in the region. In particular, 
capital flows from remittances to Georgia and revenue from exports 
to regional countries are decreasing. Even though the Georgian 
economy is well diversified and resilient to external shocks, we 
believe growth in 2015 will be affected by the weak regional 
economies. Therefore, we have revised our GDP growth targets  
for 2015 to be within the 1.5%–3% range. In our view there are  
three key takeaways from the current environment in the region:
1.  Subdued capital flows in the region have had a short-term 
negative impact on both the Lari and the Georgian economy. 
The Georgian economy is getting rebased in order to stay 
competitive in the new reality. However, in the medium to longer 
term we see lower oil prices as a big positive for Georgia as the 
country will be saving c.US$450 million from oil imports and on 
the back of lower oil prices we will witness efficiency pick-ups  
in a number of different sectors within the economy – making 
Georgia more competitive. 
2.  Our view is that this rebasing will not be significant – in the short 
term, Georgia will weather reduced capital flows better than oil 
producing countries in the region as due to lower oil prices we 
are experiencing much lower inflation than our neighbours. 
Lower inflation is also an outcome of the country’s disciplined 
fiscal and monetary policies. 
3.  As dollar capital has been reduced in the region, it seems that 
Georgia and the Lari are getting more dependent on Eurozone 
economies and the Euro respectively. Two points can be 
highlighted in this regard: firstly, the European Union (EU) is our 
largest trading partner representing more than 26% of trade; 
and secondly, Georgia recently signed a free trade agreement 
with the EU. 
8 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Record performance and updated strategy to capture growth opportunities
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive producing over 30% ROAE while Corporate Banking is producing 
c.10% ROAE. We do not think that in the long run it is possible for 
Retail Banking to keep producing 30% ROAE. Therefore, we see 
the risk of high returns for the Group decreasing over the longer 
term. At the same time we do not want to be forced to lend to 
Corporates in order to show you growth of 20% in the total loan 
book, while growing a business line with an unattractive risk return 
profile. This is why we announced the 20% growth target for the 
retail loan book only. It is noteworthy that penetration of retail loans 
is half of that of corporate loans (when counting in DFI funding  
and outstanding Eurobonds) at 21% of GDP. Due to the superior 
returns in Retail Banking, we expect our Retail Business to continue 
to drive the banking business ROAE. The recent acquisition of 
Privatbank is in line with our updated strategy to further strengthen 
our retail franchise by adding c.400,000 clients, stepping up our 
payments business as well as capturing synergies by merging 
Privatbank with our existing Express Banking franchise. Our other 
two pillars of banking business strategy remain unchanged:  
ROAE at c.20% and Tier I Capital c.20%.
Due to the limited access to capital and management in a small 
frontier economy such as Georgia, we see a much better risk return 
profile when investing in Georgian companies than when lending  
to those same corporates. We also believe that the Group will be 
adding value for our shareholders by investing in opportunities, 
which currently are not accessible to our shareholders, changing 
management and governance, institutionalising and scaling up the 
companies, and most importantly, unlocking value by exiting from 
these companies over time. Our Plan A in exit is to take the company 
public. This way, as far as possible it is our firm intention to create  
an opportunity for our shareholders to participate in such offerings. 
Strategy going forward for the Banking Business
Banking is the crown jewel in our Group and the key driver  
of profitability. We have three segments in the banking business,  
of which Retail Banking will drive most of our banking business 
growth, Corporate Banking and Investment Management will 
improve our ROAE, with the latter also contributing an increasing 
share of our fee and commission income.
1 .  R e t a i l B a n k i n g
In our retail business we are covering 1.6 million individual clients and 
90,000 SME and Micro clients. In order to capture different segments 
of our retail client base we are pursuing a multi-brand strategy for 
mass affluent, mass retail and the emerging bankable population.
a.  Under the Solo brand, we are targeting the mass affluent 
segment. Currently, we have only 8,000 individual clients under 
the Solo brand. In April, we launched a new strategy, where we 
will be providing clients with a superior customer experience  
by giving them access to newly designed Solo lounges and 
providing them with new lifestyle opportunities. Solo personal 
bankers will be offering tailor-made solutions for our Solo clients 
and introducing new financial products such as bonds and  
other capital market products developed by our investment 
management team. We estimate that our current market share  
in this segment is less than 15% and our goal with the new 
strategy is to significantly increase this market share in the  
next three to four years. 
b.  Under the Bank of Georgia brand we target the mass retail 
segment. This is our flagship brand and most significant profit 
contributor, with 1.1 million individual clients and 90,000 SME 
and Micro clients. This segment is very much product driven 
and our biggest challenge is to change the business model  
to become more client centric and therefore increase the 1.7 
current product to client ratio over time.
c.  Under the Express Banking brand we target the emerging 
bankable population. We are currently estimating the market of  
a 1.5 million emerging bankable population, which either do not 
have interaction with a bank or use a limited number of banking 
products. Privatbank clients are part of the latter and we would 
like to integrate the majority of 400,000 Privatbank clients within 
the Express Banking franchise. After the integration we expect 
the number of Express Banking clients to increase to c.500,000. 
Under the Express Banking franchise we are scaling up our 
payments business, which currently is in its nascent stage,  
by increasing our lower-end merchant footprint and thus giving 
more people access to card payments. Through Privatbank we 
will be increasing our footprint from 6,300 merchants to more 
than 7,500 merchants, increasing our coverage ratio to nearly 
85% of the total number of merchants. Also, we are scaling up 
self-service terminals under the Express Banking franchise.  
This way, we plan to introduce a more efficient way to access 
the mass retail segment and allow easy transactional banking to 
the country’s under-banked population. Currently, country-wide 
we operate more than 2,200 self-service terminals.
2. Corporate Banking
 One critical goal in the Corporate Banking business is to increase 
ROAE and we plan to do this by de-concentrating our loan book 
and decreasing the cost of risk. Our experience shows that if, in 
any given year, one of our top 20 clients has some problems, the 
Corporate Banking business ROAE gets depressed. Therefore our 
key goal is to de-concentrate the loan book by:
a. Syndicating loans out.
b. Selling risk.
c.  Helping our large corporate clients to access capital by issuing 
debt securities on the local capital market.
We will focus on further building our fee business through the trade 
finance franchise, which we believe is the strongest in the region. 
3. Investment Management
 We expect to grow our fee income by building our local debt 
capital markets and M&A advisory franchise. As we would like  
to de-concentrate the corporate loan book in corporate banking, 
local debt issuance is one way to go in combination with our 
advisory business enhancing ROAE by generating more off-
balance sheet business. On the M&A side we see the need for 
some sectors to consolidate and Galt & Taggart plans to take  
a leading role in this consolidation process. 
 As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension system, we believe that our 
international wealth management franchise can benefit by focusing 
on the distribution of local debt. So far we see that c.70% of the 
demand in local paper issuances comes from our international 
wealth management clients. Further enlargement of the footprint  
of our international wealth management franchise will be critical for 
the success of our strategy to build local capital markets. Therefore, 
we will be investing more in this area. 
 To summarise our Investment Management strategy, we need to 
do the following:
a.  Enhance ROAE through our investment in the issuance of more 
debt paper in the local market.
b.  Enlarge our wealth management footprint internationally to 
further strengthen our distribution channels.
The way we invest and manage
As our Investment Strategy is new for our shareholders, I would  
like to spend more of your time and provide you with more insight 
into how we plan to conduct investments and manage companies. 
Let me outline our key principles, which are derived from our 
experience in running Bank of Georgia:
1. Be opportunistic and disciplined.
2. In scale we trust.
3. Getting our hands dirty.
4. Good governance makes good returns.
5. Liquidity is the king.
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 9
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information Let me expand on each of these points to give you more flavour  
on how we see our job in investing and managing the companies.
1. Be opportunistic and disciplined
 We want to be opportunistic and disciplined when investing,  
by buying cheaply and in small ticket sizes. 
 For us buying assets cheaply is the first and most important 
postulate in our investment strategy. It is difficult to go wrong  
when you buy assets cheaply. The key questions are:
a. How do we define cheap in a small illiquid market?
b. How do we manage to buy cheaply?
 When considering an acquisition, whether it’s pre-IPO or otherwise, 
we look at multiples of listed peers in the same sector and apply at 
least a 40% discount. This is our definition of cheap.
 Georgia is a small frontier economy and access to capital is limited. 
It is difficult to find liquidity for any single asset worth more than 
US$10 million. At the same time, owners of assets are often asset 
rich but cash poor. Georgia’s GDP has grown on average 12% in 
nominal terms over the past 10 years and local businesses have 
been reinvesting over that time to stay competitive. 
We like paying dividends to our shareholders as it creates natural 
self-discipline in buying assets cheaply. Therefore, before investing we 
will always ask ourselves the question: is it worth investing this money  
in this company or opportunity or better to pay/increase dividends?
Another reason for us being disciplined is that we are under no 
pressure to make any new investment as Bank of Georgia is 
producing good returns. If we do not find a good opportunity  
we may not invest for two to three years. We are always following 
different sectors of the economy and if a good opportunity arises we 
would want to capture it. To this end, we would like to sit on at least  
US$30 million of cash (under the current market cap) at the holding 
company level to make sure that cash is available as opportunities 
arise in our existing business lines or new ones. Also cash is very 
handy in slower business cycles and can help to buy assets cheaply. 
We plan to be disciplined not only in terms of finding new 
opportunities through investment appraisals and understanding the 
risk return profile, cyclicality of the business and quality of revenue, but 
also in terms of the size of the initial investment in any new sector. We 
believe that our initial investment in any new sector should not exceed 
c.US$25 million. When and if we get comfortable with the sector, 
only after that would we allow ourselves to increase the ticket size of 
the investment. The small size of the investment is important as we  
are human beings and we may make a mistake. By investing in small 
ticket sizes we will be far away from betting the house. Making a  
small mistake is OK, just learn from it – do not bet the house.
To summarise, Georgia was born 10 years ago and different 
sectors and businesses are in the process of formation, 
access to capital and management is limited, owners of 
businesses are cash poor and therefore good opportunities 
can be captured cheaply. At the same time, we are under no 
pressure to make new investments and we will be extremely 
selective and opportunistic and will not commit more than 
US$25 million in a single investment in a sector where we  
are not already present. Our dividend policy is the natural 
self-discipline mechanism for our investment business. 
2. In scale we trust
We strongly believe that any investee company and/or sector in  
which we invest in should be large and scalable. In case of pre-IPO 
opportunities, EBITDA of the existing business should be at least 
US$25-50 million – depending on the sector. In the case of greenfield 
investment, we need to see an opportunity to scale up and achieve 
US$25-50 million in EBITDA over the next five to six years. 
We like to hold and/or target large market shares in any given sector. 
Our sweet spot is 30% market share in any given sector. This way  
we will have the scale to be efficient and competitive and at the same 
time not be overly dominant to attract the attention of regulators. We 
should be mindful not to abuse the power of a large market share and 
we should be open to share the benefits of scale with our customers. 
In a nutshell, we do not mind sharing success with our clients. 
We like large, but fragmented, sectors to have an opportunity  
to consolidate it – like we are doing in the healthcare sector. We 
also like natural monopolies like GGU. We would consider sectors 
where you have one dominant player with 50%+ market share.  
We like simple business models. 
We had a bad experience of acquiring small companies in 
2005-2007. In a small period of time we acquired 10+ companies  
in total. The good thing was that capital commitment was limited, 
but it took too much senior management time and because of the 
limited size of company we were unable to hire good management 
teams. The strategy proved to be wrong due to the limited size of 
the investee companies.
To summarise, achieving superior economies of scale in a 
small frontier economy is an essential part of the success.  
It actually significantly diminishes the risk of failure. 
3. Getting our hands dirty
Before we undertake an investment we like to take time and get  
our hands dirty to understand inside out the sector and business 
we are targeting. Diligence and modelling in excel is the key before 
entering any business. 
Getting things done is the single most important task for  
our executives.
No matter how great our strategy is, we strongly believe that execution 
is the key. No matter how good the investment opportunity is, we will 
not pursue it if we do not think that we have a first-class management 
team to put in place.
At Bank of Georgia we have spent a lot of time building a top-class 
management team and we have a deep bench of people who have 
grown and are ready to take bigger responsibilities. One of the 
reasons we are confident in our strategy is that we have human 
capital available both on the top and mid-management levels.  
We spend a lot of time coaching and mentoring our talent and  
our Board’s role in this process is invaluable.
Along with selling the companies, we will be selling the management 
team and saying goodbye to our management team, therefore  
we fully understand that our machine of producing new executives 
should not stop. Furthermore, for our top talent we have introduced 
a self-development programme by hiring coaches to help them to 
better understand their strengths and weaknesses. According to our 
policy, no matter how good the performance of our top executive  
is they may get limited bonuses if we do not see progress in 
executive’s self-development and growing their successor(s). 
You have observed rotations in our top management every two to 
three years. In December 2014, we announced another round of 
rotation. We would like our top talent to receive experience in different 
roles and learn and grow. Rotations will continue in the future. 
In some of the sectors where we have limited operational 
experience we would put together a complementary team of talent 
from our Group and sector specialists from outside the Group.  
We are confident that talent from within our Group can learn the 
sector in a short period of time. In the early stage of the investment 
cycle, the management from the holding company level will spend 
more time on coaching and guiding the management team. That  
is exactly what we are doing at Georgian Global Utilities now. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 10
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued The question we need to ask before entering the new sector is  
not whether we are the best, but whether our management team  
is better than that of the next player. This is a relative play game.
At this stage, we do not want to hold more than four investments  
at any given time, as we are limited in terms of oversight as well as 
management resources to put in place in more than four companies. 
To summarise, similarly to limited access to capital in this 
country, the availability of management is limited and by 
being a machine of producing top talent in the country we 
can add value for our shareholders. We understand that 
great management teams make great companies, and 
investing time in growing people continues to be critical  
for the success of our strategy. 
4. Good governance makes good returns 
We have already learned that great institutions are not built without 
robust governance and ultimately without it one cannot deliver 
sustainable value creation for its shareholders. 
We like to institutionalise companies by putting good governance  
in place. We do not like to bet on one person’s judgement and do 
not believe that one person can perform magic. Therefore, we believe 
that first of all the CEO should be surrounded with an outstanding 
management team from below and a first-class Board from above. 
Meritocracy, loyalty to institution rather than to individuals is our 
approach. To this end, our approach is to separate the roles of 
Chairman and CEO. We operate like this at Bank of Georgia and 
we truly believe in healthy checks and balances between the Board 
of Directors and executives. Having separate individuals for the  
top job on both levels is the key signal we are sending to our 
shareholders on governance. 
We think that a high-quality, diversified independent Board is  
extremely important for the success of the Company. We see the 
Board not only as an institution, which is doing its duty of oversight of 
the management and setting strategy, but also the Board is providing 
guidance and coaching of our top and mid-level management team.
In our case, the Board’s role of oversight is made relatively  
straightforward by creating a natural alignment of interest between 
shareholders and management. For that we award long-term vesting 
shares (up to five years) to management and make compensation  
in shares a large proportion of total annual compensation  
(e.g. 85-90%). This way we create long-term alignment of interest 
between management and shareholders. If shareholders make 
money, management makes money and if shareholders lose money, 
management also loses money. With this simple approach, on top  
of being executives, the management team feels and acts more like 
shareholders – because they are.
Even though this compensation structure has a lot of positives  
as outlined above, it has one main drawback: when share prices 
rise too rapidly the risk of management becoming arrogant and 
complacent is high. This is another reason why we think a strong 
Board is essential to bring management back to reality. 
The Nomination Committee is always searching for professionals 
around the world to make sure that we have all the skill-set available 
on the Board. For example, currently we are searching for an 
experienced potential Board member with background in Energy 
and Utilities to give us more guidance for our GGU investment. 
To summarise, we are big believers that robust governance 
is the source of value creation for our shareholders.  
The natural and simple alignment of interest between 
shareholders and management by awarding long-term 
stock works well for value creation and, finally, we want  
to have good balance by having separate people as the 
Chairman and CEO of the Company. 
5. Liquidity is the king 
According to our investment policy, we target to exit from our 
investment through a trade sale (full or partial) or IPO in up to six 
years from the initial investment. Because we are a publicly held 
company our preferred option is to take the Company public to  
give the market the opportunity to participate in the future upside. 
No matter how well our companies do in terms of operating results, 
we want to see their exit to unlock the value and with the generated 
profit pay special dividends and pursue new opportunities – in the 
event that we see one. According to our strategy we will be targeting 
three special dividends in the next five years. Our aim for the size of 
aggregate special dividends is to be at least 50% of ordinary 
dividends paid by the banking business during these five years. 
Because we aim for high returns and not for control, we do not 
mind selling below the 50% shareholding level at the IPO. We fully 
understand that liquidity for both incoming investors and our Group 
is the key. We have learned that increased liquidity of shares itself 
creates value as shares become accessible to a wider investor 
universe. This was indeed the case when we converted from our 
GDR listing to the London Stock Exchange Premium listing in 2012. 
As shares of Bank of Georgia became more accessible, their value 
increased while fundamentals did not change. 
Unlocking the value through IPO is more critical for us than any money we 
leave on the table at the IPO. At the end of the day and as far as possible 
it is our firm intention to create an opportunity for our shareholders  
to participate in the newly IPO’d company by buying its shares. 
As many of you know we are in the process of preparation to IPO our 
healthcare subsidiary Georgia Healthcare Group. The Board and I have 
complete confidence that the management will deliver on our stated 
strategy of doubling 2015 revenue by 2018. Some would argue that  
we might be better off to take the Company public in two to three years’ 
time, as more profits are expected to be generated by then. But we 
want to be disciplined in terms of unlocking value for our shareholders, 
as set out in our 4x20 strategy, and are targeting an IPO in 2015.  
I personally am extremely excited about the prospects of the Company. 
As far as possible, it is our firm intention to allow our shareholders to 
participate in the IPO and I, for one, will definitely be placing an order.
To summarise, in order for our strategy to work we need  
to be disciplined in unlocking the value of companies in 
which we invest and manage. Taking companies public is 
our preferred option for exit, as it is our intention to give  
our shareholders an opportunity to participate. 
In the end, I would encourage you to visit Georgia and meet our 
management team. You can meet and get to know our Board 
members at our annual investor day. We have a saying in Georgia: 
“It is better to see the place once than hear about it 100 times”. 
What I promise you is dinner at a restaurant overlooking beautiful 
old Tbilisi – the place where East meets West at the old Silk Road, 
from where you will be able to feel the future. 
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive
7 April 2015
The Strategic Report, as set out on pages 2 to 63, has been 
reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on 7 April 2015.
On behalf of the Board of Directors
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive
7 April 2015
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 11
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
