 Group Chief Executive’s review
Transforming the business
“
The Group’s results for 
2016 demonstrate that the 
fundamental changes made 
under Build to Last are driving 
positive and sustainable 
improvements. 
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2016
04 The Group’s results for 2016 demonstrate 
that the fundamental changes made 
under Build to Last are driving positive and 
sustainable improvements. Balfour Beatty 
has returned to profit, while increasing both 
the value and the quality of its order book 
through disciplined bidding. The £200 million 
cash in and £100 million cost out targets 
have been delivered – enabling the Board 
to reinstate the dividend as promised – and 
were significantly exceeded by the end of 
Phase One.
The Build to Last transformation programme 
launched at the start of 2015 addresses 
Balfour Beatty’s performance with all 
stakeholders – customers and suppliers, 
employees and subcontractors, investors and 
communities. Targets were set against four 
objectives: building a business which is Lean, 
Expert, Trusted and Safe. The first phase – a 
24-month self-help plan – has just delivered 
its goals, tackling the root causes of previous 
poor performance in order to provide a strong 
platform for future profitable growth.
In UK construction, the Group met its year-
end target, with 90% of the legacy projects 
having reached practical completion and over 
70% having reached financial completion. 
Importantly, the UK construction business 
reported an underlying profit from operations 
in the second half of the year. 
By 2014 Balfour Beatty had become overly 
complex following more than a decade of 
acquisition-led forced growth. There was 
an overall lack of leadership and strategic 
direction. Operationally, project bidding and 
delivery lacked standard processes and 
internal systems and controls were weak with 
little focus on cash management. A federated 
culture had resulted in layers of unnecessary 
cost and a tendency for elements of the 
business to compete with one another. 
Inevitably, performance had deteriorated not 
only financially but in terms of customer and 
employee satisfaction.
The decisions and actions taken under Build 
to Last were often, in themselves, simple and 
straightforward. However, taken early and 
in combination, they are now transforming 
Balfour Beatty. The introduction of new 
standardised disciplines has strengthened 
governance and transparency. The upgrade 
in leadership and the Group’s simplified 
structure, with shared back office functions, 
have enabled the business units to focus on 
their core markets while benefiting from a 
more competitive cost base. Stronger finance 
and IT systems have helped drive leaner 
management of cash and spending, and 
better project visibility. Overall, the ability to 
forecast, manage and control performance 
has been greatly enhanced and customer 
satisfaction has risen significantly. A more 
unified culture is beginning to develop, with 
increased collaboration starting to leverage 
the Group’s strengths.
Strategically, this provides the framework 
for the Group to enter its second two-year 
phase of Build to Last with confidence. 
In each business we will build carefully on 
the positive trajectory to date. The Group 
will apply appropriate criteria to invest in 
people and capabilities of our Construction 
Services and Support Services businesses 
to grow earnings, and in the assets of our 
Investments portfolio to grow overall returns. 
In this way the Group intends to drive value, 
achieving industry-standard margins by the 
end of 2018 and thereafter market-leading 
performance in its third phase of Build to Last. 
Leo Quinn
Group Chief Executive
balfourbeatty.com/AR2016
Governance Financial Statements Other Information 05 Strategic Report
