 Leveraging our offer  
for the long term
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Georgia Holdings
In 2012 your Company reported another record profit of  
GEL 179.6 million, an increase of 32.3% from the profit 
delivered by Bank of Georgia in 2011. This strong progress 
continues to reflect the strength of the Bank’s earnings 
power and resulted in a ROAE of 19.1%, up from 18.3%, 
and EPS growth of 17.6% to GEL 5.22, reflecting a strong 
business performance, significantly reduced cost of funds 
and improved efficiency across the business.
On 28 February 2012, Bank of Georgia Holdings started 
trading on the LSE Main Market and in June 2012 became a 
FTSE 250 constituent company. This has markedly improved 
the liquidity of your stock, positively affecting the price of 
BGEO LN, which grew 86.0% since the premium listing 
almost one year ago on the back of an average trading 
volume of approximately 103,000 shares per day  
(GBP 1.5 million). We have a well-diversified shareholder  
base which includes our long-time investors across various 
geographies and the addition of many new non-emerging 
markets focused institutional investors, who now make up 
approximately 15% of our investor base. As the Chairman 
mentions in his statement, we were particularly pleased  
with the recent successful placing of the East Capital  
private equity stake, with a diverse range of high quality 
institutional investors.
Performance: Chief Executive Officer’s statement
2012 was a momentous year for Georgia as well. Following  
the parliamentary elections in October 2012, we witnessed a 
democratic passing of power for the first time in the country’s 
history. The new government has asserted its commitment  
to improve further Georgia’s investor and business friendly 
policies and in December 2012 the newly-elected Parliament 
approved a well-balanced budget for 2013 that forecasts 6% 
real GDP growth, further improvements in general government 
debt ratios and a continuous focus on infrastructure sector 
development. In Q4 2012, the uncertainty in respect of the 
change of political leadership resulted in a relative slow-down 
of corporate business lending growth throughout the Georgian 
banking sector. While we may continue to see this trend of 
slower growth over the next few months, we have been 
encouraged by higher levels of business activity in the first  
few months of 2013.
Our revenue in 2012 totalled GEL 498.3 million, up 21.9% 
(revenue adjusted for a one-off currency hedge gain in 2011) 
compared to 2011. The significant increase in revenue was 
due to the robust performance of our businesses and the 
effects of our diversified sources of growth. Strong interest 
income was driven by growth in both the retail and corporate 
loan books, especially in the first nine months of the year. 
Fee income increased 14.8% to GEL 86.5 million, reflecting  
our leadership in money transmission payments and the 
superior fee generating capabilities of our Corporate Banking 
business. We enjoy an estimated 50% market share in card 
acquiring business in Georgia, have unmatched client reach 
through the largest network of ATMs and Express Pay 
terminals and American Express card exclusivity in Georgia. 
During 2012, Bank of Georgia launched contactless Express 
cards for the first time in Georgia, and further developed our 
Express cards and associated loyalty programmes that are 
unique in Georgia and increasingly serve as the metro, bus 
and mini-bus transportation payment systems. The Bank 
has also significantly enhanced its already market leading 
branch network, adding 30 Express branches to bring the 
total Express and Metro branches to 63, and also more than 
doubled the number of Express Pay terminals, which are 
increasingly being used for bank transactions such as  
credit card and consumer loan repayments, cash deposits, 
utility bill payments and mobile telephone top up payments. 
Our Insurance and Healthcare businesses, which had an 
eventful year in terms of M&A activity, contributed 11.0%  
to the consolidated revenue and 8.7% to the consolidated 
profit and is becoming an increasingly meaningful source  
of the Bank’s income. 
22 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Our affordable housing business successfully completed  
its pilot project, contributing GEL 15.5 million to the 
mortgage loan book and m2 Real Estate, our real estate 
subsidiary, realised a profit of GEL 1.7 million. Non-interest 
income amounted to 43.0% of revenue, an achievement that 
is particularly striking compared to four years ago, when  
this ratio stood at 34.3%. 
We have become more efficient. For the past five quarters 
we have consistently delivered strong positive operating 
leverage, as our operating costs have regularly increased  
at only half the rate of our revenue growth. Several factors 
behind this achievement are described below. 
We successfully strengthened and expanded further  
our retail franchise through our Express Banking strategy, 
which entails the rollout out of cost-efficient small-sized 
express branches, avoiding the need to build costly flagship 
branches, to continue to serve our ever-increasing client base. 
With Express Banking in place, we have pushed further  
the ongoing shift to transactional banking by means of a 
wide-range of electronic channels, away from regular or 
flagship branches, which are now focusing on selling more 
value-added products and services. We have continued to 
invest in IT to minimise and, in certain cases, eliminate 
document flow, and stepped-up optimisation of the centralised 
retail banking back office. These developments coupled with 
the ongoing cost control measures that we already have in 
place, have resulted in a substantial improvement in the Retail 
Banking cost to income ratio to 44% from 51% last year while 
the Corporate Banking cost to income ratio improved to 33%  
from 43% in 2011. The increasing benefits we are delivering 
from these improved efficiencies are expected to underpin 
further improvements in our cost to income ratio over the  
next few years. It has been a rewarding and exciting 
experience to observe the effects of economies of scale. 
Credit quality has continued to be robust, albeit the cost  
of credit risk was at the top end of our expected range, 
increasing by GEL 22.5 million to GEL 44.7 million, or  
1.3% of the loan book. This largely reflected the absence  
of last year’s releases and recoveries, and an increase in 
the Retail Banking impairment charge as a result of the job 
reductions made by a large payroll client during the first half 
of the year. We did however see an increase in corporate 
provisions in the fourth quarter, reflecting the impact of a 
provision of GEL 14.2 million relating to one single corporate 
credit. This was offset however by the impact of the 2008 
and 2009 stress years dropping out of our Retail Banking 
provision methodology. 
Buttressing the Chairman’s comments in his letter, I would 
also like to highlight the excellent progress we have made 
against our liability management objectives. Throughout the 
year we have consistently sought to optimise our funding 
structure and cost base. Our strong branding and pre-
eminence in the retail segment has enabled aggressive 
deposit pricing on the back of the Bank’s growing retail 
deposit base, while the more competitive corporate 
environment led to the outflow of expensive Lari corporate 
deposits, allowing us to replace them with less-costly long-term 
international borrowing. The funding profile of Corporate 
Banking has improved markedly as the Corporate Banking  
cost of deposits declined to a historic low of 6.2% in the fourth 
quarter of 2012, also benefiting from superior access to trade 
finance lines, which provides substantially cheaper long-term 
funding. Overall, the Bank’s cost of funds decreased to 7.3% 
from 8.0% last year, and was as low as 6.6% in the fourth 
quarter of 2012. 
In 2013, we do not expect any changes to the fundamentals of 
our business strategy. We intend to continue to focus on the 
Georgian market, with Retail Banking and Corporate Banking 
driving profitability. The full effects of our recent scaling up of  
the business are still to be realised, as more customers shift to 
electronic channels. The introduction of a sophisticated CRM 
system will enhance product penetration and boost revenues 
per client, thus further improving our efficiency. 
In Corporate Banking we intend to expand our export  
and trade finance businesses and to build on our strong  
fee generating capabilities, supported by research  
and advisory services. We are set to build our regional 
asset management business on the currently of assets 
under management US$365.3 million-strong wealth 
management platform. 
The potential health insurance reform in Georgia, the 
structure of which is still under consideration, envisages  
the provision of basic healthcare coverage for the entire 
Georgian population in addition to existing state-subsidised 
socially vulnerable groups. We expect these reforms to be  
a positive factor for the healthcare revenues of Aldagi BCI, 
the country’s leading healthcare provider. 
While we are pleased with our progress in cost optimisation 
in 2012, we see lots of opportunities to further improve 
efficiency and to ensure that our costs continue to increase 
at a lower rate than our revenue growth. In 2013, we will be 
vigilant of our asset quality and continue to enhance our 
risk management practices.
At the end of December 2012, the Bank’s Total Capital ratio,  
on a Basel I basis, was 27 .0% and the Tier I Capital ratio  
was 22.0%. This reflects a very strong capital position with 
capital ratios significantly exceeding the Bank’s minimum  
capital requirements. The Group is well positioned to improve its 
performance in 2013 and this, combined with continued strong 
profitability and capital ratios, has led the Board to review  
the Group’s dividend policy. The Board has decided to 
recommend an annual dividend of GEL 1.5 per share 
payable in British Sterling at the prevailing rate subject to 
approval by shareholders at the AGM. This represents a 
significant increase of 1 14.3%, compared to the annual dividend 
of GEL 0.70 per share last year, a payout ratio of 28.7% and a 
dividend yield for shareholders of 5.5%, calculated based on the 
Group’s 2012 results and using the 31 December 2012 share 
price of GBP 10.30. Going forward, the Board will aim to 
maintain a dividend payout ratio in the 25%-40% range.
The success of the Group continues to be built on the strong 
contributions of thousands within the management and 
employee teams, and I am grateful for all their efforts and 
achievements during 2012. Their consistently superior work 
over the last few years has, I am confident, positioned Bank  
of Georgia to continue to perform strongly in the future, as  
the leading bank in Georgia.
 
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Georgia Holdings
10 April 2013
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 23
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
