 For more information about the 
market overview see
Pg 18
 We l c o m e t o  
Bank of Georgia Holdings 
In 2012, Bank of Georgia Holdings has made strong 
progress in a number of areas that underpin future  
growth in its revenues, earnings and delivering value to  
its shareholders. The Board is delighted with the Group’s 
progress in a year in which it delivered record earnings  
of GEL 179.6 million.
Our executive management team, led by Irakli Gilauri, has 
developed and implemented a growth-focused strategy 
that is generating high levels of business and earnings 
growth, with strong profitability and returns whilst 
maintaining a conservative balance sheet with high levels  
of capital and liquidity – levels that are substantially in 
excess of minimum regulatory requirements. This strategy 
clearly works and, as a result, the Group continues to  
get stronger and stronger.
On behalf of the entire Board, I thank Irakli and the 
management team for plotting and maintaining the sound 
strategic course – with challenging goals – for Bank of 
Georgia. Irakli’s personal integrity and commitment to the 
values of the Group are clearly recognised, highly regarded 
and reflected throughout the organisation. 
In my letter to shareholders last year I talked about 
Georgia’s recent progress in the eradication of corruption 
and in delivering market-oriented reforms that have 
underpinned Georgia’s macroeconomic development  
over the last decade. This economic progress has 
continued to be delivered throughout 2012 and into 2013, 
notwithstanding a period of uncertainty around the time  
of the country’s parliamentary elections in October 2012. 
In 2012, Georgia remained firmly on the path of economic 
growth, recording an estimated 6.1% real GDP growth 
during the year. This economic growth reflects three main 
pillars: Georgia’s economic liberalisation and strong fiscal 
and monetary framework, ongoing macro-economic 
stability and Georgia’s welcoming business environment 
resulting from recent growth oriented reforms.
Neil Janin
Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings
Four reasons why we are the 
leading bank in Georgia 
1.  Our values drive our business
2.  Our products and services are 
right for the market we are in
3.  We have a strong and robust  
governance structure
4.  Our Executive Management 
team is focused on  
delivering results
Overview: Chairman’s statement
2 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 For more information on our 
Group performance see
Pg 28
Growth in tourism continues to be an important driver  
of Georgia’s economic progress, with the number of  
foreign visitors growing by 56% to a total of an estimated  
4.4 million visitors in 2012 compared to 2011. Net remittances 
and foreign direct investment remained robust and are 
expected to continue to be so into 2013 and beyond. In 
January and February 2013, the number of foreign visitors 
continued to increase significantly with 37% year-on-year 
growth compared to January and February 2012.
Georgia benefits significantly from its liberal economic 
policies and its positioning as the logistics and tourism  
hub for the Caucasus region. The country’s Liberty Act 
ensures the continuation of the country’s credible fiscal  
and monetary policy framework. With effect from 2014, 
Georgia’s government expenditure as a percentage of 
GDP will be capped at 30%, the budget deficit as a 
percentage of GDP will be capped at 3%, and overall 
Government debt to GDP will be capped at 60%.  
In addition, recent growth oriented economic reforms,  
such as eradication of regulation and red tape and 
eradication of administrative corruption, among others, 
will continue to benefit the economy for years to come. 
2012 was also a breakthrough period in the Deep and 
Comprehensive Free Trade Area negotiations with the 
European Commission, which is now expected to lead 
to the successful conclusion of negotiations during 2013, 
and to the initiation of free trade with the European Union 
within two years.
In December 2012, the Parliament of Georgia approved 
Georgia’s state budget for 2013. The budget revenues 
are projected at GEL 7.4 billion, while the total state 
expenditure budget (including acquisition of non-financial 
assets) is expected to be GEL 7.9 billion. The forecast 
budget deficit, as a percentage of GDP, is 2.9%, and 
Government debt to GDP is targeted to be 33.1%. Real 
GDP growth is budgeted to be c.6%, and average inflation 
is expected to be c.3%.
Whilst 2012 was another year of economic progress in Georgia, 
it is in the political sphere that a truly remarkable breakthrough 
was achieved. Following the victory of the Georgian Dream 
coalition in the October 2012 parliamentary elections, there  
was a relatively smooth transition to a Government run by the 
Georgian Dream coalition – a rare democratic achievement 
among former members of the post-Soviet CIS. The new 
Government is now clearly ‘up and running’, progress is being 
demonstrated in many areas and it is encouraging to see good 
levels of inward investment continue, high and growing levels of 
tourists visiting Georgia and, perhaps most notably, significant 
signs of a substantial improvement in both diplomatic and 
economic relations with Russia – over time I believe this will be 
extremely beneficial to the people and economy of Georgia. 
Whilst the last October elections plainly represented a significant 
source of uncertainty for businesses and consumers in Georgia, 
having seen these more recent developments in the country, it 
feels like this period of uncertainly is now behind us.
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 3
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Throughout 2012, Bank of Georgia has remained firm 
and true to its core values and principles. Among the  
many reasons why Bank of Georgia continues to be,  
by any measure, the leading bank in Georgia, I would 
highlight these:
 – Our key values drive our business
 – Our products and services are appropriate for the 
markets in which we operate
 – We have a strong and robust governance structure, and
 – Our executive management remains clearly focused on 
delivering high quality, sustainable, results.
The Group recognises that we live in a time when the 
external environment constantly challenges us to develop 
innovative solutions that drive both value for our customers 
and sustainable profits for our shareholders. Many of the 
ways in which the Group is responding to this challenge are 
explored in greater detail in the Chief Executive’s statement 
and elsewhere in this Annual Report. I will mention only a few 
of the key areas of progress made by the Group. In Retail 
Banking, our Express Banking strategy is revolutionising 
Georgian financial services markets and is increasingly been 
used to bring more, previously unbanked, customers into  
the banking sector. 
Passion
To be pro-active, 
result driven and 
constantly the best
Courage
To explore new areas, take 
reasonable risks and make 
opportunities come true
Respect
To build long-term  
client relationships  
based on consideration, 
professionalism and trust
Innovation
To think outside  
the box, constantly 
challenge the status  
quo and to come up 
with fresh ideas
Team Spirit
To achieve outstanding results 
together, as one, united and 
uncompromising team
Our values keeps us  
one step ahead
Overview: Chairman’s statement continued
Values
4 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Management’s focus on cost efficiency and delivering 
positive operational leverage is also an important strategic 
priority. By constantly looking to improve efficiency, and 
focusing on leveraging new technologies and efficiencies 
such as Straight-Through Processing, the Bank again 
delivered revenue growth that is more than double the  
rate of expense growth. 
In a maturing financial services market, which we expect 
to be characterised over the next decade by falling interest 
rates, management has made reducing the Group’s cost 
of funds a priority. Over the last 12 months this has been 
highlighted by a strong focus on reducing deposit rates 
across all business sectors, as well as the issuance of a 
five-year Eurobond in July 2012 which, when combined, 
supported both a significantly reduced cost of funds and, 
consequently, an increase in the Bank’s net interest margin. 
This emphasis on strong balance sheet management will, 
I believe, continue to support strong margins over the  
next few years.
Our strong earnings performance and level of profitability 
has produced high rates of internal capital generation.  
Our capital ratios substantially exceed our current capital 
requirements and proposed future needs. This has enabled 
the Board to recommend a more than doubled dividend of 
GEL 1.50 per share, and announce an expected dividend 
payout ratio going forward of 25%-40% of earnings.
Finally, our listing on the premium segment of the London 
Stock Exchange in February 2012 has achieved its key 
objectives. The average daily liquidity of Bank of Georgia 
Holdings shares has increased substantially, the Group has 
improved access to global capital markets and we have 
experienced a significant diversification of our institutional 
shareholder base, with particularly noticeable increases 
in our UK and US shareholder bases. The value of these 
improvements was both demonstrated and further enhanced 
in March 2013 by the successful placement of a 10% equity 
holding by East Capital Financials Fund, which is in the 
process of closing.
The Board believes that both Georgia and Bank of 
Georgia remain well positioned to build on the successes  
of 2012, in 2013 and beyond. The Bank of Georgia business 
model has a demonstrated flexibility and ability to generate 
high quality organic growth in a number of different economic 
environments. Georgia’s economy is in good shape and I 
cannot think of a bank better placed to take advantage  
of the opportunities that will arise in our core businesses 
over the next few years. 
Neil Janin
Chairman of Bank of Georgia Holdings 
10 April 2013
For more information on  
our Governance see
Pg 68
For more information on  
our Social Responsibility see
Pg 66
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 5
Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
