 The bank has continued to deliver a strong earnings performance 
this year. You should also note that we have formalised an inflection 
of our strategy to capture further growth opportunities within 
Georgia over the medium term. At the same time, Georgia’s 
regional trading partners have faced significant geopolitical and 
economic challenges.
In this letter, I will address the change in the Company’s strategy 
and the geopolitical issues, before concluding on dividend and 
governance matters. 
Strategy issues
Over the last decade, Bank of Georgia has evolved to become the 
market leader in what is a well regulated and competitive banking 
sector. In what was a year of substantial challenge, Bank of Georgia 
has delivered over 11% revenue growth, 15% earnings growth and  
a 19% return on shareholders’ equity. You will find all details on our 
performance in these assets in this report. 
In 2014, we decided to modify the strategy, structure and governance 
of the institution to profit from attractive investment opportunities in 
healthcare and beyond. Why did we choose to follow this strategy 
when we risked being called by one of the worst epithets possible, 
that of being a conglomerate? 
One way to think about Bank of Georgia is in terms of capabilities. It 
has three macro skills: it knows how to execute well; it knows Georgia 
well; and it is disciplined in thinking in terms of capital allocation and 
return on capital, as opposed to market share and growth. Moreover, 
the institution attracts talent and capital beyond its needs. 
Georgia has sectors of the economy which could be developed 
profitably with an infusion of capital and talent. The first one that we 
developed, and the closest one to our business of banking, was real 
estate. We noticed that as the economy picked up after the 2008 crisis, 
our mortgage portfolio did not keep up with this growth. The reason 
was that there was no supply of houses as builders/promoters had 
gone bust, and nobody was building housing any more. The builders 
had invested their capital in land purchases in a speculative drive, and 
were totally illiquid when the crisis of 2008 hit. We decided to enter  
this market as builders and promoters, and supplied the market with 
apartments. The result was the success of our subsidiary, m
2
 Real 
Estate, which provides affordable housing to a growing middle class. 
You can read all about its excellent performance in this report.
Healthcare was another such sector where we were present through 
Aldagi, our insurance subsidiary. Universal healthcare was being 
introduced in the country, and the offering by providers was uneven, 
inefficient and fragmented. An injection of capital, talent, and best 
practice could change the industry structure in Georgia, and provide 
patients with a much higher quality of care. Good assets could be 
bought relatively cheaply. This made us invest in hospitals and create 
our wholly-owned subsidiary, GHG, Georgia Healthcare Group. It now 
has a 22% market share of hospital beds in the country and is currently 
planning its international stockmarket listing in the second half of 2015.
In my Chairman’s letter to shareholders 
last year, I focused on the many aspects 
of progress made by Georgia over the 
last decade. I am pleased that this 
progress has continued throughout 
2014, namely with the Government 
commitment to the continued effective 
implementation of the Association 
Agreement with the EU. 
A clear strategic direction for the future
Neil Janin
Chairman
6 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014
For more information about our 
governance, see page 64
2014 Chairman’s statement Our strategy is one of buying potentially very high-quality, but 
currently underperforming assets, at a cheap price, bringing best 
practices to them, professionalising their management, and then 
selling them to the market at a higher price. Having access to 
top-quality management, corporate governance and capital in a 
fast-developing country like Georgia creates opportunities to achieve 
substantial value creation for shareholders. Our CEO Irakli Gilauri, 
describes in his letter why we can buy cheaply, what sectors look 
attractive to us today, and the discipline we bring to investment.
Let me reiterate that the banking businesses – retail, corporate and 
investment management – will remain our priority and a minimum  
of 80% of the Group’s earnings. Our goal this year is to prove to the 
market that this strategy delivers by selling to the market a major 
share of our healthcare subsidiary. Our shareholders will be free  
to own this business directly and we will attract new investors who 
specialise in healthcare.
The Bank’s structure has been modified to adapt to this strategy.  
In 2014, we established an investment arm to manage our non-
banking businesses, which include our Healthcare operations, our 
Real Estate subsidiary and our recent pre-IPO purchase of a 25% 
minority interest in the leading Georgian water utility business. Irakli 
Gilauri goes into much more detail with regard to the implementation 
of this strategy later in this Annual Report. The Board is clear that our 
ability to continue leveraging our market-leading banking franchise, 
with an emphasis on the higher return retail business, together with  
a strategy to benefit from other carefully selected investments in the 
development of the Georgian corporate landscape, will provide  
clear and sustainable value creation for shareholders.
There is significant information in the body of this Annual Report 
highlighting the Group’s strategic priorities for 2015 and beyond.  
This stems from a Board review of the Group’s strategy at the end  
of 2014 that aims to ensure that capital continues to be allocated 
effectively, to ensure the sustainability of the Group’s strong returns 
over the long term. Now let us turn to the context in which we operate. 
Geopolitical issues 
Georgia remains a steadfast Euro-Atlantic partner – a stance 
supported by most political parties and a significant majority of the 
population. In June 2014, Georgia signed an Association Agreement 
with the European Union, which included provision for a deep and 
comprehensive free trade agreement that will underpin increased 
future trade growth for Georgia. Additionally, in March 2015, China 
and Georgia signed an agreement on co-operation for the 
development of the “New Silk Road Economic Belt”, which further 
highlights Georgia’s future economic potential. Georgia aims to 
protect itself from Russian regional dominance. This strategy has 
been costly in terms of territory lost (about 20%), but successful in 
terms of economic and standard of living growth (GDP per capita 
based on PPP more than doubled to $7,700 from 2003–2014).
The current Government has succeeded in having a more open and 
pragmatic approach towards Russia, while moving the country towards 
greater integration with the West – a balancing act to say the least. This  
is not to say that all is done inside the country: the EU expects and civil 
society would be better served when the currently ongoing judiciary 
reform will be completed. Nevertheless, we should remember that only 
4% of respondents admitted to having paid bribes in Georgia according 
to the Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2013 Global Corruption 
Barometer, well ahead of many European countries. In addition, the 
World Bank’s latest ranking shows Georgia as 15th in the list of countries 
where it is easiest to do business, between Germany and Canada.
From a macroeconomic perspective, Georgia delivered strong GDP 
growth in 2014, at an estimated 4.8%. The Georgian Lari depreciated 
7 .3% against the US Dollar, but appreciated by 5.3% against the Euro, 
the single largest trading partner currency of Georgia. In early 2015 
there has been some further currency weakness, but this now seems 
to have stabilised. This performance was to be expected and was 
managed skillfully by the Central Bank, which proved once again its 
independence. Overall, 2014 saw a particularly robust performance 
against the backdrop of ongoing geopolitical concerns and 
macroeconomic and currency devaluation pressures in many of 
Georgia’s trading partners, and demonstrates the resilience of the 
Georgian economy. The section on macroeconomics covers our 
prediction on GDP growth next year, in the face of the situation of 
Georgia’s trading partners and the country’s attractiveness to foreign 
investment and tourism. I hope that you will conclude, as we do, that 
this country, which has transformed itself into an economically liberal, 
market-oriented democracy, remains very promising.
In conclusion, I want to highlight and acknowledge the significant 
efforts of the senior management team and the excellent leadership  
of our Chief Executive – Irakli Gilauri. In addition to their clear delivery 
against the existing strategy, having nearly tripled earnings and 
generated substantial returns for shareholders over the last five years, in 
December 2014 they worked with the Board to update the strategy for 
the Group and have established a clear strategic direction for the future. 
Shareholders should take note of 2 key governance features of  
the institution: the alignment of interest between management and 
shareholders, and the division of roles between the Board and 
management. I will summarise our philosophy below. 
Our incentive package to top management features a high percentage 
of stock vested over a long period of time. This scheme creates a 
sharply upward sloping wealth curve – the more a company’s stock 
price improves, the higher the percentage increase to the CEO and  
his top team’s total wealth. It encourages intelligent risk taking, as it 
heavily rewards the CEO and his top team to create long-term value, 
and punishes them if they do not deliver returns to shareholders. In 
summary, it discourages short-term thinking and risky behaviour, and 
encourages thinking like an owner manager. 
My role as a Chair is to run the Board, and the role of the CEO is to 
run the Company. One of the Board’s main roles is to be involved in 
setting the strategy and to monitor the operations of the Company  
to ensure that it is being run to the benefit of all stakeholders and as 
mandated. The second important role of the Board is to determine 
the pay of the CEO and the main executives. 
Finally, the Audit Committee, although composed of independent 
members, reports to the Chair – a further guarantee of independence. 
It should be clear that having the CEO be also the Chairman of the 
Board, opens the door for potential abuse in all three cases above.  
All depends on the quality of the Board.
The Group now has a first-class Board of Directors. Their  
combined experience and support is invaluable to the organisation. 
The Governance section of this Annual Report highlights, amongst 
other things, our Board Diversity Policy. Within this policy the Board 
has stated its aim to increase the number of women on the Board  
to two within the next two years. To end, I would like to thank the 
members for their ongoing support and the provision of guidance 
and mentoring to executive management, at a time of significant 
economic and geopolitical uncertainty.
At the 2015 Annual General Meeting, the Board intends to 
recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 per share payable in 
British Sterling at the prevailing rate. This represents an increase  
of 5%, compared to an annual dividend of GEL 2.0 last year. 
2014 was clearly a year of demonstrable delivery and progress.  
The Board is pleased with this progress and is confident about  
the Group’s prospects for 2015 and beyond.
Neil Janin
Chairman
7 April 2015
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 7
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
