 Banking Business
We are a banking group with an 
investment arm. We are uniquely 
positioned to capture growth 
opportunities in the underpenetrated 
banking sector and wider corporate 
landscape in Georgia. 
Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC  |  Annual Report 2014 4
The structure  
of our business
At a glance
 Retail Banking
We operate the largest retail bank in Georgia, serving c. 1.5 million 
customers through 219 branches, 523 ATMs and 2,239 Express Pay 
(self-service) terminals and have a sales force of more than 2,000. In 
order to better serve the varied needs of our customers, in addition  
to traditional banking services, Retail Banking offers differentiated 
products and services. These include the well-recognised brands  
such as Solo Banking, a premier banking service for the mass affluent 
segment and Express Banking service, which is aimed at attracting 
mass market customers with minimal incremental operation costs 
through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay 
terminals, internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive 
Express branches. We added c.400,000 retail customers and 4.9% 
market share in retail loans to our Retail Banking operations, as a  
result of the acquisition of Privatbank completed in January 2015. 
 Investment Management
Our Investment Management business consists of Wealth Management 
and our newly rebranded brokerage arm, Galt & Taggart. Galt & Taggart 
brings under one brand corporate advisory, private equity and brokerage 
services. Through our Wealth Management business we provide private 
banking services to our high-net-worth individual clients and offer 
investment management products internationally through representative 
offices in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv. Our Investment 
Management business serves international clients from more than  
70 countries. These businesses leverage our superior knowledge and 
capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms  
of reach and our expertise. Our Research department, which is part  
of Galt & Taggart, currently covers the Georgian and Azeri economies  
and publishes Georgian sector research. 
 Corporate Banking
Bank of Georgia is the country’s largest corporate lender with 
unmatched sector knowledge and local expertise. Our dedicated 
bankers serve more than 6,000 businesses in the country, extending 
loans and other credit facilities to businesses in various sectors  
of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and tourism,  
among others. Our Corporate Banking business offers the most 
comprehensive range of products and services in the country to 
provide flexibility and choice to our corporate clients. Corporate 
Banking serves as the country’s leading trade finance business  
and provides leasing services through the Group’s wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Georgian Leasing Company (GLC).  Share in Group’s revenue 2014 (%) Share in Group’s prot 2014 (%) Share in Group’s assets 2014 (%)
48.5
2.3
10.7
4.0
26.8
55.2
40.4
41.7
0.5
9.3
5.2
2.9
25.5
4.7
5.3
6.1
3.2
7.7
Retail Banking
Corporate Banking
Investment Management
Georgia Healthcare Group
m
2
 Real Estate
Other
Excludes inter-segment eliminations. Other includes P&C Insurance (Aldagi), Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB), Liberty Consumer and Corporate Centre.
Investment Business
Annual Report 2014  |  Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 5
Strategic report 
Overview
Strategic report 
Strategy
Strategic report 
Performance
Governance Financial 
statements
Additional 
information
 Georgia Healthcare Group (GHG)
We are the largest private healthcare services provider in the fast-growing 
Georgian market. We operate a synergistic business model that comprises 
healthcare services and health insurance. Our business was established in  
1990 and we have over 25 years’ experience in the insurance market and have 
provided healthcare services since 2006. We primarily focus on the mass market 
segment through our network of 33 hospitals and six ambulatory clinics. Our 
healthcare services business had a 22.0% market share as of 31 December 
2014, with 2, 140 hospital beds and we have the widest geographic coverage 
among our peers with facilities located in six regions that contain two-thirds of  
the population of Georgia. We are also the largest healthcare insurer in Georgia 
with a 36.7% market share as of 30 September 2014, based on revenue and  
with approximately 200,000 people holding our health insurance policies as  
of 31 December 2014. We plan to do an initial public offering of our healthcare 
business in 2015.
 m
2
 Real Estate (m
2
)
Our real estate business, the Bank’s wholly-owned subsidiary 
m
2
 Real Estate, develops residential property in Georgia. For 
the past couple of years it has established itself as one of the 
most recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands 
in the country. m
2
 Real Estate outsources the construction and 
architecture works while focusing on project management 
and sales. The Bank’s real estate business is in place to meet 
the unsatisfied demand for housing through our well-
established branch network and sales force, while stimulating 
our mortgage lending business. m
2
 Real Estate completed 
sales of 1 ,327 apartments worth US$1 1 1 .2 million since 201 1 
with 99% of apartments sold in two successfully completed 
projects and 66% pre-sales in four ongoing projects. m
2
 Real 
Estate also sold a total of GEL 58.3 million mortgages. 
 Georgian Global Utilities (GGU)
A major player on the market, GGU is a privately owned Tbilisi water utility 
company with 143MW hydropower facilities. In December 2014, we have 
acquired a minority interest in GGU, initially a 25% stake with an option to 
step up to 49.9% within a 10-month period. GGU, through its wholly owned 
subsidiaries, is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides 
wastewater service to 1.4 million people (approximately 1/3 of Georgia’s  
total population) in Tbilisi, Mtskheta and Rustavi. In addition, GGU owns  
and operates three hydropower generation facilities with a total capacity  
of 143MW. We believe that GGU fits into our strategy to acquire attractive 
businesses which can be monetised within a maximum of six years, via an 
IPO or an M&A trade. GGU posted EBITDA of GEL 51.4 million in 2014.
