 06 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chairman’ s statement
Marcus Agius
Barclays recognises the 
vital economic and social
purpose that banks play ,
and we are committed to
meeting our responsibilities
to stak eholders and society
in general.” www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 07
Key points
– Regulation needs to be strengthened but it must not
result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs 
of the global economy
2
009 has been another difficult year for a number of the major
economies in the world and this has continued to impact not just
the banking industry , but also our customers and our clients.
Despite the exceptional efforts of governments, central bankers
and regulators to stabilise matters in the second half of 2008 –
particularly in the UK – confidence generally continued to decline to
dangerously low levels in early 2009. And while conditions improved as the
year progressed – such that essential stability in the financial system has
now been restored – the resulting impact in terms of higher global economic
growth has still to be felt. Good progress has been made within the G20
forum as to the nature and extent of future regulations for the banking
industry and there is a reasonable measure of international consensus as to
the future measures which will need to be implemented. Regulation remains
the focus of intense international debate, however, and much work remains
to be done in order to deliver an effective solution on a co-ordinated basis.
At Barclays we believe it is important that the banking industry itself
learns the lessons from the crisis given the economic and financial costs that
have arisen. I said in my report to shareholders last year – and I repeat it now
– that we very much regret the problems that banks have caused. We also
acknowledge and are grateful for the help and assistance given to the
banking sector by governments across the world. We are determined that
there must be no repeat of the turmoil that has affected the industry and
wider economy , and fully recognise that changes have to be made. Banks
must earn once more the confidence and trust of key stakeholders such as
customers and clients, employees, shareholders, regulators, politicians and
society in general. While much remains to be done in this respect, we should
not lose sight of what has already been achieved, particularly in the UK, in
terms of strengthening capital ratios and improving liquidity across the
sector, whilst also reducing leverage.
The regulatory reform agenda is a vital component of rebuilding
confidence and trust and providing a healthy , stable and sound financial
system, but it is essential that this agenda produces a level playing field
internationally . Both financial and human capital are mobile and in the
absence of internationally agreed standards, such capital will migrate to take
advantage of differences in regulation. We therefore welcome the efforts by
bodies such as the Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee to
produce internationally agreed standards and we will continue to co-operate
with these international agencies as they work towards determining these
standards.
It is also important that we do not seek to regulate too hastily or, 
in the understandable desire to avoid a repetition of recent events, go too 
far in terms of the reform agenda. Regulation needs to be strengthened 
but it must not result in a financial system that cannot serve the needs of 
the global economy . As recent events have shown, the financial sector has
become increasingly interconnected in recent years in support of the trends
in globalisation which have occurred. It follows that new solutions must 
be carefully balanced and fully thought through and agreed before
implementation. We must take the time properly to understand the
consequences and in particular the cumulative impact of the regulatory
reforms being contemplated. We must ensure that the end result achieves
three objectives:
– First, a safer and more secure financial system;
– Second, a banking industry that is well equipped to support the needs 
of the global economy; and
– Third, the ability of the suppliers of capital to earn an economic return 
on their capital.
All parties need to have confidence that any new regulation will be effective,
but it must not be so heavy-handed as to restrict the banking industry’ s
ability to support economic growth or to limit its ability to attract new capital
in the future.
Barclays own focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic momentum
despite the difficult environment. In particular, we have:
– Significantly strengthened our capital and liquidity positions and reduced
our leverage;
– Focused on our customers and clients;
– Managed the business through the economic downturn, by a
combination of income growth, strong cost control and careful risk
management; and
– Contributed to the evolving debate on the future of the industry . 08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chairman’ s statement
continued
Compensation has been the subject of considerable comment over the
last 12 months. We understand public concerns over bank bonuses and are
fully committed to implementing the Financial Stability Board Implementation
Standards endorsed by the G20 and the FSA Remuneration Code. We will
ensure that our remuneration systems do not reward failure but only reward
long-term success and only on a risk adjusted basis. The Board HR and
Remuneration Committee has exercised careful governance over the
process for determining overall levels of compensation with the objective
of maximising long-term shareholder value by restricting compensation
to the minimum level consistent with retaining high quality employees in
an intensely competitive international marketplace for talent. A full report
is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 170 to 186.
Looking forward, the competitive and regulatory environment will be
very different from the recent past. Barclays strategy will evolve in response
to these changes but we remain committed to the universal banking model
since we believe that the diversification benefits of this model have
protected shareholders from the worst effects of the crisis over the last two
years. And as the global economy becomes more interlinked, it will continue
to require integrated and international banks that are able to serve the needs
of the increasing number of large multinational companies (and other major
clients, such as sovereign governments themselves) that require a broad
range of services from their banks, including credit provision, payments
capability , access to the capital markets and the ability to manage the
financial risks they face, such as interest rate, foreign exchange rate and
commodity price risk. 
This requirement to serve the needs of our customers and clients
highlights the economic and social roles played by banks. The banking
industry , through its core activities of payments, delivering safe storage for
deposits, lending, asset management and investment banking, plays a key
role in the smooth functioning and well being of economies. We exist to
enable our customers to achieve and progress their financial objectives. And
it will be critical to the future growth of the global economy that integrated
banks such as Barclays are able to continue to finance the increase in global
trade that has led to such an increase in living standards in both developed
and developing economies.
At Barclays, we are committed to meeting our responsibilities to
stakeholders. These include customers and clients, shareholders,
employees, government and regulators and society in general. We recognise
in particular that we have a responsibility to:
– Support appropriate risk-taking by customers;
– Treat our customers fairly;
– Invest for the future;
– Act as a responsible global citizen;
– Pay responsibly;
– Manage our affairs prudently and in a way that creates confidence;
– Produce good returns for our shareholders; and 
– Pay our fair share of taxes to the revenue authorities.
These have been and will be our guiding lights as we seek to regain the trust
and confidence of stakeholders. And we are under no illusion that this will
take time and that we will be judged by our actions. www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 09
– Banks must recognise that we must earn once more 
the confidence and trust of k ey stak eholders such as
customers and clients, employees, shareholders,
regulators, politicians and society in general
– Barclays focus in 2009 was to maintain strategic
momentum despite the difficult environment
Board changes
There have been a number of Board changes during the year with five
Directors leaving the Board and two new non-executive Directors being
appointed. I stated in last year’ s report that Sir Nigel Rudd and Professor
Dame Sandra Dawson would retire at the 2009 Annual General Meeting.
Stephen Russell retired in October after nine years’ dedicated service,
including six years’ sterling work as Chairman of the Board Audit Committee.
Patience Wheatcroft retired from the Board in order to take up a position as
Editor in Chief, Wall Street Journal Europe. All made a valuable contribution,
particularly during the recent crisis, and we wish them well. Amongst the
executive Directors, we were sad to see Frits Seegers leave the Group in
November following changes to the structure of the Group. On behalf of the
Board, I would like to thank Frits for his significant efforts on Barclays behalf
and wish him success for the future.
We appointed two new non-executive Directors during the year, Simon
Fraser and Reuben Jeffery . Simon brings valuable experience from his time as
Chief Investment Officer for Fidelity International and Reuben has extensive
experience in investment banking, regulation and government services.
Marcus Agius
Group Chairman
9th March 2010
£35bn of new lending to UK
households and businesses
of all sizes
Barclays continues to support businesses throughout
the downturn
Local businesses and start-ups supported through the
Enterprise Finance Guarantee (EFG)
A
t the beginning of 2009, we committed to making an
additional £1 1 bn new credit available to the UK economy .
At the end of 2009, the actual figure was over £35bn
with around half to businesses, including support for
more business start-ups in 2009 than for many years.
A particular focus has been on viable local businesses that,
because they cannot offer sufficient security to meet normal
commercial lending, would not otherwise be able to obtain finance
for their business to survive and grow.
We announced a further £88m in early 2010 to lend through
the EFG, to help more businesses obtain finance. Under the
scheme the Government guarantees a proportion of the lending if
the customer is unable to repay the debt and loans are available to
businesses with sales turnover of up to £25m operating in the UK.
We have worked closely with the Government on the scheme
and have already made available over £150m in EFG loans in the
last year. 
We have been a leading supporter of support schemes 
for local businesses since the downturn began. In addition to
providing nearly one in every four EFG loans across the UK last 
year, we continued to provide loans receiving European Investment
Bank (EIB) support in 2009 with over £330m of finance approved
as eligible for EIB cash back.
For more information on Barclays lending
go to www.barclays.com/annualreport09
