 Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2006 8
Earn, invest and grow
Delivering on our strategy
John Varley Group Chief Executive Barclays PLC
start this review by thanking the 123,000 employees of the Barclays
Group, whose dedication and creativity helped us achieve record
results. Our strategy of ‘earn, invest and grow’ continued to deliver
very strong growth in profits in 2006. Our ambition is to become one
of the handful of universal banks leading the global financial services
industry. I believe that the universal banking model is helping us 
drive the higher growth for shareholders that I set out to achieve three
years ago, by providing us with new options in products, services 
and markets.
In our business, strategy simply stated is anticipation followed by
service: we anticipate the needs of customers and clients. We then serve
them, by helping them achieve their goals. The needs of customers and
clients are changing. The drivers of change include: the privatisation 
of welfare; wealth generation and wealth transfer; explosive growth in
demand for banking products in emerging markets; the securitisation 
of assets and cash flows; the use of derivatives in risk management; the
significant growth in the use of credit cards for payment and borrowing;
and the opportunity for capital markets and private equity to fund
infrastructure development around the world. 
To capitalise on these sources of growth, I have put a new structure in
place by creating Global Retail and Commercial Banking (GRCB) under
the leadership of Frits Seegers, who joined Barclays in July 2006. GRCB
brings together: UK Banking, International Retail and Commercial
Banking and Barclaycard. GRCB gives Barclays a single point of strategic
direction and control to these businesses, thereby increasing our
capability to drive growth and synergies globally and to enter new
markets. We believe this will enable us to replicate success from one
part of the world in another. This GRCB structure mirrors the
organisation of Investment Banking and Investment Management
under Bob Diamond, which also gives a single point of strategic
direction and control to a group of global businesses which enjoy
substantial synergies.
My obligation as Group Chief Executive is to assemble the best team 
I can. We have added significantly to our management bench strength
in 2006, particularly in GRCB, and have concentrated on supplementing
our existing talent with deep specialist retail and commercial banking
and card experience across a range of international markets. 
Performance versus goals
For the three years from 31st December 2003 to 31st December 2006,
Barclays delivered a total shareholder return (TSR) of 66% and was
positioned 6th within its peer group, which is second quartile. 
The TSR of the FTSE 100 Index for this period was 54%. For the year to
31st December 2006, we delivered a TSR of 25% and were positioned
5th in our peer group. The TSR for the FTSE 100 for the year was 14%.
Economic profit for 2006 was £2.7bn, which, added to the £3.3bn
generated in 2004 and 2005, delivered a cumulative total of £6.0bn for
the goal period to date. This equates to compound annual growth in
economic profit of 28% per annum over the period, which is well ahead
of our target range.
Group Chief Executive’ s review
I
Our strategy of ‘earn, invest and
grow’ continued to deliver strong
growth in proﬁts. Barclays PLC
Annual Report 2006 9
Operating review
1
Group performance
We made substantial progress on our strategic priorities and delivered
record financial results. Profit before tax increased 35% to £7,136m.
Earnings per share rose 32% to 71.9p, and economic profit was up 54%
to £2,704m. Profit excluding business disposals of £323m increased
29% to £6,813m, and earnings per share increased 23% to 66.8p. 
We increased the total dividend payout to 31p, a rise of 17%. 
Income grew 25% to £21,595m, well ahead of expense growth of 20%.
The growth was broadly based by business and geography, reflecting
momentum in each business. All businesses made significant
contributions, with especially strong performances from Barclays
Capital, UK Banking and Barclays Global Investors, and a substantial
contribution to income from Absa in its first full year of ownership.
Excluding Absa, Group income grew 18%, compared with expense
growth of 13%. The mix of income and profit continued to evolve.
Approximately half our profits came from outside the UK, up from 
about 30% in 2003.
Operating expenses increased 20% to £12,674m. The Group
cost:income ratio improved two percentage points to 59%. 
We continue to target top quartile productivity for all businesses, 
and in 2006 the ratio improved or remained flat in all businesses.
Operating expenses include gains on the sale of properties of £432m
partly offset by accelerated incremental investment expenditure of
approximately £280m.
Impairment charges rose 37% to £2,154m. Excluding Absa, impairment
charges on loans and advances increased 26%. The increase was
mostly attributable to the challenging credit environment in UK
unsecured retail lending, which was partly due to the continued rise in
the level of personal insolvencies. In the second half of 2006, as a result
of a number of management actions, flows into delinquency decreased
and arrears balances declined across the UK cards and unsecured loans
portfolios. We therefore believe that we passed the worst in Barclaycard
UK impairment in the second half of 2006. UK mortgage impairment
charges remained negligible, and the wholesale and larger corporate
sectors continued to be stable with a low level of defaults.
When I look at these results, I am pleased to see increased productivity
in our use of capital, risk and costs. Return on average shareholders’
funds improved four percentage points to 25%; profits grew much
faster than Daily Value at Risk and risk weighted assets and the
associated consumption of capital; and income growth exceeded cost
growth by five percentage points.
Capital management
Our strong credit rating and disciplined approach to capital
management remain sources of competitive advantage. Our capital
management policies are designed to optimise the returns to
shareholders whilst maintaining our credit rating. 
At the end of 2006, our Tier 1 capital ratio was 7.7% (2005: 7.0%). 
The improved capital ratio was driven by the strong capital generation 
of our business portfolio, the impact of disposals, including our stake in
FirstCaribbean International Bank, and the efficient management of the
balance sheet through the use of the capital markets. We have invested
almost £2bn to support the capital required for our organic growth
throughout the portfolio at a very attractive rate of return and we also
increased the dividend to shareholders by 17%. 
We commenced parallel running for Basel II at the end of 2006. Whilst
there are still areas in which the regulators have not yet defined the
requirements for detailed implementation, we continue to anticipate 
a modest benefit to our capital ratios from Basel II. For 2007 we will
continue to report our capital ratios under Basel I.
Executive management 
I want to acknowledge the significant contributions of two executive
directors who are leaving Barclays. David Roberts, previously Chief
Executive of International Retail and Commercial Banking, left Barclays
at the end of 2006 after 23 years of outstanding service. Naguib Kheraj
has been a generator of very significant value for the Group over the last
ten years in a number of different roles at Barclays, most recently as
Group Finance Director. He will be leaving us in 2007. I thank David and
Naguib warmly for their dedication to the success of Barclays and I wish
them well for the future. Our new Group Finance Director, Chris Lucas
joins us in April and brings a wealth of experience in financial services.
Outlook
We enter 2007 with strong income momentum in Barclays, driven 
by high levels of customer activity and good risk control. The global
economic outlook continues to be positive and we are well positioned 
to capture further growth in the years ahead.
John Varley
Group Chief Executive
