 14 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
John Varley
Our key output goal is to
produce top quartile total
shareholder returns over
time. W e achieved that 
goal for 2009.” www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 15
Summary
Our primary objective is generating returns for shareholders. But we
recognise that we can, and should, in ways consistent with that objective,
contribute to the well-being of society by conducting our business
responsibly and by performing well, on behalf of our customers, our core
functions of payments and money transmission, safe storage of deposits,
maturity transformation and lending, and the provision of advice and
execution in underwriting and trading. These activities lie at the heart 
of economic activity in a modern economy , and if economies are to grow 
– and reap all the beneficial consequences that flow from that growth – 
then banks must help those they serve take appropriate risks. Getting this
balance between our obligation to create returns for our owners and our
need to do that in a responsible way has never been more important.
Economic slowdown last year impacted most parts of the world in
which we operate. But despite that, I am pleased with the way we have
performed both in 2009 and in the two tumultuous years which preceded 
it. That performance allows us to enter 2010 with confidence.
During 2009, we increased our income substantially . Barclays Capital had
a very strong year across all global franchises, in particular as its businesses in
North America started to reap the benefits of the acquisition of the Lehman
Brothers North American business and integration. We have invested during
2009 in building out our equities and advisory platforms in Europe and Asia,
which will be sources of income growth in Barclays Capital in the years ahead.
Barclaycard also produced good income growth. The steadiness of our profit
performance over the past three years, even after absorbing the impact of
higher impairments and the continued legacy of credit market writedowns, 
is attributable to the diversification of income that we have built during 
recent years.
It was clear as we came into 2009 that the regulatory balance sheet
should be an area of considerable focus during the year. So we have
strengthened our capital position, reduced leverage and added to our
liquidity buffer. We are, by consequence, both well prepared for any future
economic weakness and also able to continue to execute on our strategy 
as opportunities arise. 
In March, we decided not to participate in the UK Government’ s Asset
Protection Scheme, following the application of a detailed stress test by 
the UK Financial Services Authority to determine our resilience to stressed 
credit risk, market risk and economic conditions. This test confirmed our
expectation that we would continue to be able to meet our regulatory 
capital obligations. 
In April, we announced our intention to sell the iShares business of
Barclays Global Investors (BGI). Following unsolicited interest for the whole 
of BGI, and strategic analysis of the optimal ownership structure within the
future asset management industry given the direction of regulation, we
agreed in June to sell the whole of BGI to BlackRock, Inc. (BlackRock). We
completed this transaction in December for an aggregate consideration of
$15.2bn (£9.5bn), realising a profit on disposal of £6.3bn. Our shareholders
will be able to participate in the institutional asset management sector
through our continuing holding of 37.567 million new BlackRock shares. This
gives us an economic interest of 19.9% in the enlarged BlackRock group, and
also provides a strong basis for a new commercial relationship between
Barclays and BlackRock, which will be particularly relevant to Barclays Capital
as a provider, and Barclays Wealth as a consumer. Bob Diamond and I look
forward to contributing to the progress of this new global leader in asset
management as members of the BlackRock Board of Directors.
Across our retail and commercial banking activities we continued 
to consolidate our position in our core markets through organic revenue,
cost and risk management measures. We took advantage of inorganic
opportunities as they arose. In September, we established a long-term life
insurance joint venture with CNP Assurances (CNP) in Spain, Italy and
Portugal. In the same month, we agreed to acquire the Portuguese credit
card business of Citibank International plc, adding some 400,000 new credit
card customers to our Portuguese business as we continued to invest in the
expansion of our GRCB – Western European retail operations. And in October
we agreed to acquire Standard Life Bank Plc from Standard Life Plc, adding
an attractive mortgage and savings book to our UK Retail business. This
acquisition completed in early January 2010.
2009 priorities
In my review a year ago, I said that we had three priorities for 2009: staying
close to customers and clients; managing our risks and maintaining
strategic momentum. How did we fare in these areas? 
Staying Close to Customers and Clients: In the dense fog that was
brought down on the industry by the credit crunch, it was clear that we
needed a powerful magnetic north – customers. The rapid economic
slowdown of 2008 and 2009 has complicated the lives of many of those 
that we serve. Our job in 2009 was to stay close to them as they sought to
navigate the risks and the opportunities thrown up by the crisis. The income
line is a good proxy for customer activity levels and customer relationships.
And our income generation in 2009 achieved record levels.
I am pleased with the number of new mortgage, savings, Premier
accounts and Local Business customers we have added in UK Retail Banking
and with the increase in customer account balances. 
In Barclays Commercial Bank, we were able to increase average asset
and deposit balances in a difficult business environment. 
In Barclaycard, we rolled out a number of initiatives to offer support to
customers in financial difficulties whilst limiting our exposure to the most at
risk segments of the market.  16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
continued
There is a lot of focus from stakeholders on the willingness of banks to
lend, and of course availability of credit is a critical component of economic
stabilisation and regeneration. In April 2009, we said that we would make 
an additional £11bn of lending available to UK households and businesses.
In fact, our gross new lending to UK households and businesses in 2009
totalled some £35bn, indicating both that we were open for business, and
that we were able to extend credit on terms which we regard as prudent. 
Our retail and commercial banking businesses in GRCB – Western
Europe, where we now serve almost three million customers, have
continued to grow. In addition to the CNP joint venture and cards acquisition
in Portugal, we added nearly 100 new branches in Italy and 50 in Portugal
and attracted almost £8bn of new customer deposits as we increased our
focus on the asset:liability mix of our business flows in these markets. Our
task looking forward is to ensure this business produces sustainable profits,
which will require it to be less reliant on one-offs than it has been in the past
two years.
In the developing countries of the world in which we operate, our
performance in the ten mature markets of Africa and the Indian Ocean
where we are present has been strong. GRCB – Emerging Markets as a
whole made a loss. We now serve almost four million customers across
these markets, but we have been too aggressive in our approach to business
expansion here over the past two years. This business must now convert
investments made in the last three years (in terms of people, customer
recruitment and sales outlets) into sustainable profits.
GRCB – Absa performed resiliently in a very difficult economic
environment. Notable during the year was its ability to continue to grow
customer deposit balances, particularly for the South African consumer. 
Our success in Barclays Capital is reflected both in the exceptional
revenue progress across 2009 and also in some of the client and market-
nominated awards which it has won over the year. These included Primary
Debt House of the Y ear from Euromoney , IFR Bond House of the Y ear,
Derivative House of the Y ear from Risk magazine and the Number 1 Ranking
for US Equity Research and US Fixed Income Research in the Annual
Institutional Investor All-America T eam surveys. 
In Barclays Wealth we continued to attract client assets at a time of great
uncertainty . Our intention for 2010 and beyond is to accelerate growth in the
High Net Worth businesses.
Managing Our Risks: As we expected, 2009 was another year of vicious
testing of our risk management. In February , we shared with the market our
planning assumption for loan loss rates for 2009, indicating that we
expected them to be in the range of 130 to 150 basis points, predicated on
certain macroeconomic assumptions. The economies of the world in 
which we do business performed worse in 2009 than our central planning
case had projected at the beginning of the year. Despite that, our loan loss
rate was 135bps on a consistent basis
a
, towards the bottom end of the 
130-150bps range we planned for. This is evidence of the robust risk
management and planning procedures we have in place. And although
impairment rose significantly in 2009 versus 2008 (and in certain areas 
of our business could rise further in 2010), a combination of strong income
and good cost control enabled us, though substantial profit generation, 
to enter 2010 with our Core Tier 1 capital ratio at 10.0%. At the same time, 
we reduced our leverage to 20x, from 28x, and our total assets by 33%, 
and we increased the surplus of liquid assets in the balance sheet by £84bn. 
Governments, regulators and banks are currently focused on many 
of these metrics of financial and risk management health as they seek to
ensure that the excesses of the previous economic cycle, and the costs 
of financial failure that have resulted from it, are not repeated. We support
these moves and are committed to adapting our business to the changes
that result.
Those reforms need to balance three things: the need for a safer
financial system, the importance of economic growth and the ability of 
the suppliers of bank capital to earn appropriate returns. The achievement 
of those twin objectives, which is so important to the world over the course
of the next decade, will be facilitated by a strong and supportive banking
system providing credit, managing risk and supporting innovation. 
An important dimension of the reform agenda is that decisions about
investment banking are based on science and experience, not on rhetoric.
There has been much talk about ‘gambling by investment banks’. Barclays
Capital no more gambles in the work it does on behalf of its clients than 
the clients do themselves. Its work is the work of risk management and
financing. Its job is to help governments, companies and investors around
the world raise money , stimulate economic growth, create employment, 
and manage pensions and other savings. This is a real economy role. 
Investment banking plays an important part in the universal banking
model that we have built in Barclays because many of those that we serve
need to have access to the capital markets, and because we cannot meet 
their financing and risk management needs without having a strong advisory ,
execution and trading capability within the Group. History and the current
crisis demonstrate that the performance of the capital markets businesses and
retail and commercial businesses is naturally asymmetrical. The asymmetry 
of their respective income and impairment cycles provides a strong source of
resilience. The effects and benefits of that are very clear in the performance of
I
n 2009, Global Retail Banking (GRB) businesses
were resilient in unsettling and challenging
times. We have shown that we are strongly
positioned to build and grow in a tough
environment. For example, the acquisitions of
Standard Life Bank and Citigroup’ s credit card
business in Portugal show our appetite and
capabilities to maximise on market opportunities,
whether through organic or inorganic growth.
Looking forward, I am very excited about the
potential for GRB in 2010 and beyond. We want to
be the best retail bank in our chosen markets and
to be seen as a leader in our industry . We want to
grow our non-UK business and increase, over
time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business. The
emphasis is on creating critical mass in markets
where we have a greater presence. Our ambition
is depth, not breadth.
T o help us achieve this, our key priorities for
this year are:
– Profit growth and profit diversification;
– Improving our liquidity – the ratio between loans
and deposits;
– Deeper penetration of our existing markets and
international diversification; and
– Generation of net equity .
Delivering on these priorities and ensuring that
we maintain control over every aspect of our
operations are key to achieving our ambitions 
and strategy . The external environment has been
extremely difficult, but when the cycle turns, the
profits of GRB and its contribution to Barclays
Group will shift significantly .
Antony Jenkins
Chief Executive,
Global Retail Banking
November 2009: 
Regrouping of activities Global Retail Banking www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 17
Barclays during this cycle. That is one of the principal benefits of the universal
banking model; the others include: capital and funding efficiencies; and
business and risk diversification. Forcing banks to adopt ‘narrow’ business
models, as some have suggested as part of the ongoing reform dialogue, will
not make the system safer. There has been no correlation so far in this crisis
between ‘failure’ and the popular dichotomies drawn of bank business models:
big or small; narrow or broad; domestic or international.
Maintaining Strategic Momentum: Despite the regulatory uncertainty
that will continue to confront the industry this year, our strategic path remains
clear – to increase the growth potential of Barclays by continuing to diversify
our business by customer, product and geography . That strategy lay behind
the broadening of our executive Committee
b
and changes to senior
management responsibilities that I announced in November 2009. 
The executive Directors of the Group, Bob Diamond, Group President, 
Chris Lucas, Group Finance Director, and myself, have been joined on 
the Executive Committee by the leaders of a number of Barclays business
units and control and governance functions. We have also regrouped our
activities to form:
– Global Retail Banking (GRB), comprising UK Retail Banking, Barclaycard
and the former Western Europe and Emerging Markets businesses, led by
Antony Jenkins.
– Corporate and Investment Banking (CIB), comprising Barclays Capital 
and Barclays Commercial Bank (now called Barclays Corporate); 
Jerry del Missier and Rich Ricci are Co-Chief Executives of Corporate and
Investment Banking.
GRB focuses on mass consumers, mass affluent consumers and small
business customers. We have significantly changed the footprint here 
over the past three years, and we intend to push that forward, increasing,
through time, the ratio of non-UK to UK business whilst strengthening our
UK franchises. We will place particular emphasis on creating appropriate
scale in the markets in which we have a presence. As we do that, our
objectives will be four-fold: profit growth; an improved loan-to-deposit ratio;
further international diversification through deepening existing presences;
and the generation of net equity .
Barclays Corporate, as part of CIB, focuses on the high end of what we
used to call Barclays Commercial, particularly financial institutions, public
sector entities and corporate clients. We brought this business alongside
Barclays Capital within CIB because we see significant synergy in sharing
relationship management and sector expertise across the two. Realisation 
of that synergy is enabled by the increasing fungibility of client requirements
between traditional corporate banking and investment banking product
needs within our client base. This is a global opportunity with significant
income growth potential for CIB in the years ahead. Our early work has only
reinforced that strongly held belief.
In the area of wealth management, the competitive landscape in the
global industry has gone through a sea change over the course of the last
three years. That creates opportunity , and we intend to seize that by
investing to change the scale of this business over the next five years.
Remuneration
Recognising the political and regulatory focus on remuneration practices,
and the interest of both our shareholders and our staff in the topic, it is
important for me to say that we see compensation as a means of supporting
the implementation of strategy in a way that best serves the interests of our
shareholders. So our objective in this area is to ensure that we use
remuneration well, making it the servant of the interests of our owners. 
We aim to achieve an appropriate balance between paying dividends to
shareholders, investing in the business, strengthening our capital ratios and
paying staff appropriate compensation. I don’t pretend that achieving that
balance is always easy , or that the judgements involved are straightforward.
The market for the best people is both global and intensely competitive.
Banking is a service industry and, if we are to remain successful, we must
attract and retain the best people. We have to pay for performance but, 
I emphasise, we seek to pay no more than the amount consistent with
competitiveness.
Our compensation framework is determined by the Board HR and
Remuneration Committee, a sub-committee of the Group Board 
which is chaired by our Deputy Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent. My
recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and its decisions are
only made after appropriate input from the Board Group Risk Committee
and the Group Chief Risk Officer to ensure that the level of risk within the
business and the quality of underlying profits generated are taken properly
into account. The Remuneration Committee has also considered the impact
on profits of our usage of Government and Central Bank schemes, higher
liquidity requirements and the shape of the yield curve.
Our discretionary pay awards for 2009 are fully compliant with the 
FSA Remuneration Code and the Financial Stability Board Implementation
Standards, endorsed by the G20. This has resulted in an increase in the
deferred awards by approximately 70% and greater use of equity in deferral
structures, particularly to senior staff. 100% of the discretionary pay awards
for 2009 to our Executive Committee will be deferred.
Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth Management
I
n November 2009 we announced changes 
to the management structure and leadership
team of the Barclays Group. The formation of
Corporate and Investment Banking and Wealth
Management was designed to accelerate 
the execution of our strategy , continue to adjust
dynamically to the changing environment, and
respond rapidly to client and customer needs.
Now is the time for execution, for capitalising
on the progress we have made and for seizing
the opportunity before us. 
By moving Commercial Banking, now
Barclays Corporate, into the new Corporate and
Investment Banking and Wealth Management
grouping, we signalled our desire to extend the
already attractive synergies and working
practices among our three global businesses,
Barclays Corporate, Barclays Capital and Barclays
Wealth. Barclays Corporate is a great business,
with superb relationships, a client-focused
culture, and outstanding prospects around 
the globe. 
Barclays is now one of a handful of leading
global universal banks able to offer the full array
of products and services to clients, and we are
gathering momentum as we increase market
share in all our franchises. This new structure
allows us to serve our clients even better. 
We have a unique opportunity , and we are
determined to take advantage. We have the right
model, the right culture and the right people to
succeed as long as we continue to manage our
risks and our costs, deliver flawless execution of
our plans, and maintain our momentum. Most
important of all, however, we must as always,
stay close to our clients who need us more 
than ever.
Robert E Diamond Jr
Chief Executive,
Corporate and Investment Banking 
and Wealth Management 18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 www.barclays.com/annualreport09
Group Chief Executive’ s review
continued
The overall quantum of compensation we pay is designed to ensure
that we exceed the FSA ’ s minimum capital requirements at all times. We
understand how important it is to our shareholders that we maintain Core
Tier 1 ratio well in excess of regulatory minima. A direct and intended
consequence of our decisions on pay has been the further strengthening 
of this ratio. Meanwhile, we have been able to meet the commitment that
we announced in April 2009 to resume dividend payments and we seek to
ensure that we manage the business in such a way (including in relation to
compensation) as facilitates the adoption of a conservative but progressive
dividend policy .
Our approach to the UK Bank Payroll T ax since the tax was announced
in December last year has been to manage the compensation pool in such 
a way that the cost of the tax to the Group broadly equates to a reduction in
the size of the pool, with the reduction being borne by senior executives. 
The cost to the Group of the UK Bank Payroll T ax in respect of 2009 cash
compensation is £190m, and £35m in respect of certain prior year awards
which may fall within the proposed legislation. Where a liability arises in
subsequent years, we will follow the same approach.
2010 strategic framework
The economic outlook remains uncertain. The worst of the financial crisis is
behind us, but the environment remains unpredictable, and for that reason,
we have to be very clear about the strategic framework in which we will be
doing business in 2010 and beyond. The principal components are as
follows:
1. We will continue to act as responsible corporate citizens. We will ensure
that our wider responsibilities to society are reflected in how we act. T o
the extent consistent with what is required of us by our regulators and
with our obligations to shareholders, we will continue to play our part as 
a source, via service to customers and clients, of economic growth and
job creation in the geographies in which we operate. We must behave
constructively to help our customers and clients as they cope with the
economic downturn and to support governments and supervisors as
they deal with the effects of the financial crisis.
2. We will ensure that we maintain a sound financial and organisational
footing that anticipates and adapts to the regulatory changes that will 
be required from us. The Basel authorities announced a package of
proposed reforms in December on which they are consulting. We are
working hard to advocate regulatory consistency; to ensure that the
cumulative impact of intended reforms on the economy is well
understood, and to ensure the reforms are implemented over sufficiently
extended transitional periods to enable the banking industry to support
economic growth and job creation. We will be obliged to accommodate
such changes as are finally enacted over the coming years and we will
have the ability over the period to take mitigating actions. Meanwhile, 
we are seeking to anticipate many of the changes that may be required 
of us in the areas of capital, leverage and liquidity . It is within our power 
to be net generators, rather than consumers, of capital, which our
performance in 2009 demonstrates. We will maintain high levels of
liquidity , and we will be very attentive to the size and composition of our
balance sheet. In particular, we will manage leverage tightly , and we will
seek to bring down, over time, our loan to deposit ratio. Stress testing has
been institutionalised across Barclays in recent years. This is also now
part of the FSA supervision cycle. We will ensure that we continue to
monitor regularly our responsiveness to changing economic, market and
operational environments and align our views with those of our regulator.
3. We have recommenced dividend payments in accordance with our 
prior commitments. We will make three quarterly fixed payments in 
2010 and a final variable payment relating to the calendar year 2010 
in March 2011. Given uncertainty about the full consequences of
regulatory reform, prudence dictates that our dividend policy should 
be conservative. But, subject to that caveat, we intend our dividend 
policy to be progressive relative to a 2009 annualised dividend of 
4.5 pence per share.
4. Our allocation of capital across the Group will continue to be made on 
both an economic and strategic basis, reflecting our goal of increasing 
the international diversification of our income sources in the pursuit of
medium-term growth. So we will nurture Barclays Wealth, Barclays
Corporate, Absa and GRB, whilst ensuring that Barclays Capital takes
advantage of the structural changes in the investment banking sector.
2010 will be another year, however, in which we put returns before growth,
and where prudence will determine our approach to balance sheet size.
5. Notwithstanding the regulatory uncertainty which colours the goals I have
described so far, we must deliver another year of significant profitability .
The balance of earnings is also important to us, and we continue over
time to target two-thirds of our profits coming from GRB, Absa, Barclays
Wealth and Barclays Corporate and one-third from Barclays Capital.
S
ince its establishment in 1991, Absa has
grown into a well-diversified financial
services group and although 2009 has
been a test of our resilience as an
organisation, I am satisfied that we have
delivered solid underlying performance, improved
our risk management and continued to
strengthen our balance sheet. Absa maintains a
strong capital base and is well positioned for
future growth. During the year we launched our
‘One Absa’ strategy which aims to drive an
integrated approach across all of our businesses
so that our customers are serviced in a seamless
manner. Our strategic objectives are supported by
four key pillars:
– Achieving sustainable growth in targeted
markets;
– Embedding balance sheet optimisation and
proactive risk management;
– Ensuring a simple streamlined Group for
customer delivery; and
– Instilling a customer and people centred ethos
in our organisation.
Implementation of the strategy is a key priority
and in this regard we have reorganised the top
management team to drive a disciplined focus
on delivery . With the economic prospects in
2010 expected to remain uncertain, we are
confident that our strategy is robust and
positions us well to capitalise on the growth
opportunities that emerge.
Maria Ramos
Group Chief Executive
Absa Group Ltd
Absa www.barclays.com/annualreport09 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2009 19
Goals
As I stated at the time of our Interim Results last August, our key output 
goal is to produce top quartile total shareholder returns (TSR) over time. 
We achieved that goal for 2009, generating a TSR of 80% for 2009, at the
upper end of our peer group
c
. But I recognise that for many shareholders the
starting point from which this return was generated was unacceptably low.
We will continue to measure our performance against this output goal.
We will carefully manage multiple input goals. These include economic
profit; overall balance sheet size and leverage; risk weighted assets (RWAs)
and the returns they generate; the level of our Core Tier 1 capital; our return
on equity; our overall funding and liquidity positions, and our loan to deposit
ratio as part of this; our comparative income and cost performance (the
‘jaws’); and dividend payments. 
Our medium-term goal is to generate an average return on equity that
exceeds our cost of equity over the cycle. In 2009 and again in 2010, the
combination of very high levels of capital and the relatively high cost of
capital make this a very stretching target. But we are well aware of the
direction in which our shareholders expect us to be moving in this context,
and we have constructed our medium-term plans accordingly .
Conclusion
We have over 144,000 employees worldwide who have helped us weather
the economic storm of the last two and a half years. They have not allowed
the events in the market place to distract them from attending to the needs
of those they serve; on behalf of the Board, I thank them warmly . They are as
determined as I am that we shall meet the expectations of our owners in the
year ahead, by putting the resources of the Group to work on behalf of our
customers and clients.
John Varley
Group Chief Executive
Notes
a On consistent year end loans and advances balances and impairment at average 2008
foreign exchange rates.
b The following have been promoted to the Group Executive Committee: Antony Jenkins,
Chief Executive of Global Retail Banking; T om Kalaris, Chief Executive of Barclays Wealth;
Rich Ricci, Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking; Jerry del Missier, 
Co-Chief Executive of Corporate and Investment Banking; Maria Ramos, Chief Executive 
of Absa; Mark Harding, Group General Counsel; Robert Le Blanc, Chief Risk Officer; 
Cathy Turner, Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Affairs.
c TSR (T otal Shareholder Return) is defined as the value created for shareholders through
share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments and is compared against a peer
group containing Banco Santander, BBV A, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, HSBC,
JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Unicredit and UBS.
Maintaining strategic momentum
Premier, full-service, global
investment bank delivering
through the cycle
Providing holistic solutions for customers
Strong client franchise reflected by
top-line income of £1 7.9bn; up 81%
T
he past year has seen us deliver on our vision to be a premier,
full-service, global investment bank. This means we have the
scope and the scale to compete against the very best firms in
all the different businesses in all of the different regions. Our
Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities businesses (FICC)
are top three globally , and our new Equities and M&A advisory franchises
are building real momentum and delivering excellent results. Our vision
means achieving leading positions for our clients in every region and in
every business in which we compete. 
Our clients continue to come to us with their business challenges,
and we are using the breadth and depth of our expertise to help address
their needs comprehensively . We are expertly placed to service the needs
of our clients, whether it’ s a government looking to raise syndicated debt,
an institutional investor wanting to increase its equities exposure or a
large corporate undertaking a rights issue. We provide holistic solutions
for our clients. 
This is what we mean when we say that our client focus is driving
our business. We are helping our clients to meet their challenges, and the
scope of how we can help them is wider than ever. And this is what makes
Barclays Capital such an exciting place to be right now. We are now one of
a handful of leading global, full-service investment banks. Our businesses
are growing with speed, discipline and focus, resulting in a full-service
offering much greater than the sum of those businesses. 
We’re having new conversations with existing clients. We’re
delivering for clients we’ve never worked with before. And we’re using 
the strength of our full-service franchise to make a real difference to 
their success.
Further information on Barclays Capital is available at
www.barclays.com/annualreport09
