 3
Strategic Report 
Chairman’s Statement
Chairman’ s 
Statement
BBA Aviation delivered a strong overall 
performance in 2016 and has made 
excellent strategic progress. With the 
completion of the acquisition of Landmark 
Aviation, the sale at the beginning of 2017  
of ASIG and continued investment in Ontic’s 
portfolio, the Group has transformed and is 
positioned strongly for the future.
Results
In Flight Support we saw excellent organic underlying operating profit 
progression of 7% despite modest market growth. The integration  
of the new Landmark FBOs has been successfully completed. During 
the year we also further extended the Signature network around the 
world through acquisition and our Signature Select
TM
 licensing model 
and completed the transaction to form Gama Aviation Signature 
Aircraft Management.
In Aftermarket Services, Ontic delivered another solid operating 
performance with incremental contributions from new licences and 
we completed the acquisition of a portfolio of legacy avionics products 
from GE Aviation. We saw a weak overall performance in Engine  
Repair & Overhaul as trading conditions remained challenging,  
but continued progress on our footprint reduction programme,  
which supported an improved second half performance.
Net cash flow from operating activities was strong at $374.9 million  
with ROIC at 10.1%.
Dividend
At the time of the interim results the Board declared an increased 
interim dividend of 3.63c per share (2015: 3.47c per share when 
adjusted for the new capital base). The Board is now proposing a final 
dividend of 9.12c per share (2015 adjusted: 8.68c per share),  up 5% on 
an underlying basis, reflecting the Board’s progressive dividend policy 
and its continued confidence in the Group’s future growth prospects.
 
Corporate Governance and the Board 
In this Annual Report we have created a new Corporate Governance 
section (pages 42- 78) which sets out our approach to governance, how 
we comply with our governance obligations and how governance works 
in practice at BBA Aviation.
Sir Nigel Rudd, 
Chairman
We announced at the end of 2015 that Nick Land would be leaving  
the Board at the 2016 AGM and that, from January 2016, Peter Edwards 
and Peter Ventress would join the Board as non-executive directors.  
I would like to again thank Nick for his contribution to BBA Aviation  
and thank each of our non-executive directors for their counsel  
during the year.
On 1 March 2017 we announced that Mike Powell was standing  
down from the Board on 31 May 2017. I would like to thank Mike  
for his significant contribution to BBA Aviation and I am very pleased  
with the appointment of David Crook as his successor as Group  
Finance Director.
Safety 
The Board values the skills, commitment and enthusiasm of all of 
our employees in what has been an exceptionally busy year for BBA 
Aviation. Our dedicated teams around the world are at the heart of  
our success. This year we have been especially pleased with progress  
in the vital area of safety where we have delivered a significantly 
improved performance versus last year. 
Outlook 
The integration of Landmark Aviation has delivered more cost 
synergies than anticipated, with annualised cost savings now expected 
to be $39 million. Signature now comprises the majority of the Group 
and has a global network of over 200 FBOs that can meet more of the 
needs of our customers at most of the locations they want to fly to, 
enhancing our opportunity for continued market outperformance. 
Ontic continues to see significant growth opportunities and has a 
strong pipeline and a good order book. Although ERO will continue to  
be impacted by reduced legacy mid-cabin fixed wing flying, our 
footprint reduction programme remains on track and should lead to 
further improved financial performance at lower levels of activity.  
The Group is now focused on higher value-added, better IP-protected, 
high ROIC and strongly cash generative businesses and the Board is 
confident of good growth in 2017.
