 4 5
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
“We have been effective over  
a number of years in executing  
our strategy of building 
leadership positions in aviation 
service and aftermarket 
businesses that show good 
underlying growth, where we 
can create or enhance barriers  
to entry, that generate  
cash and deliver sustainable  
returns well in excess of our  
cost of capital”
Simon Pryce 
Group Chief Executive
Q.  Has BBA Aviation’s business model/strategy changed post  
Landmark and the ASIG disposal?
A.  Not really. We have been effective over a number of years in 
executing our strategy of building leadership positions in aviation 
service and aftermarket businesses that show good underlying 
growth, where we can create or enhance barriers to entry, that 
generate cash and deliver sustainable returns well in excess  
of our cost of capital. This was particularly true in 2016. 
  The acquisition of Landmark Aviation materially extended and 
enhanced our network of high-quality and global FBO locations, 
through which we can deliver Signature’s industry-leading  
service offering and operational excellence to a broader range  
of customers at significantly more of the places in the world that 
they want to fly to. We also have a greater focus on B&GA and  
on higher value-added, better IP-protected, strong ROIC and 
cash-generative businesses. From here, the impact of having 
an FBO network that is so much larger and in customer-relevant 
locations, gives us ample opportunity for further expansion, not 
just by continuing to add new locations, but also through the 
provision of a broader range of B&GA services to our extensive 
customer base. And, by using our unique knowledge of, and 
relationship with, our customers we can optimise the nature of  
the services they receive and the way we deliver them to reduce 
their total cost of flying.
  The decision to sell ASIG was triggered by interest we received 
towards the end of 2015 and highlights our focus on value creation; 
others saw more long-term value in ASIG than we felt we could 
generate in the foreseeable future. The combination of ASIG 
and Menzies creates an enhanced global leader in the provision 
of commercial aviation services offering greater benefits to 
customers and to the ASIG team that has left BBA Aviation.
  Going forward, our strategy and business model remain the  
same – focusing on the customer, driving innovation in quality  
and type of service, leveraging knowledge and skills across the 
Group, increasing our value-added activities and continued  
financial discipline.
Q&A with Group 
Chief Executive  6 6
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
Q.  Tell us about the Landmark integration – any surprises,  
good or bad? 
A.  Acquiring and integrating 62 FBOs at once was no small feat and 
took the focused efforts of a significant number of our dedicated 
and highly capable team; but there really were no surprises. We 
knew most of the FBOs well and had been monitoring them for  
a number of years. We also had the opportunity to do extensive  
due diligence prior to completion. The Carlyle Group were also  
good stewards of Landmark and had enhanced the underlying 
quality of the FBO estate through investing in lease extensions  
and development projects. 
  Nevertheless, combining the two businesses has allowed us 
to reduce the combined cost base by $39 million of annualised 
synergies from 2017 and we are very excited about the 
opportunity to enhance our relationship with all our customers 
and bring them the full range of our much broader service offering 
across a significantly larger global network of high-quality FBOs.
Q.  Can you see opportunities for further transformational deals?
A.  The cash-generative nature of BBA Aviation, as our track record 
demonstrates, means we have plenty of capacity to continue 
investing where we see opportunities for business expansion, 
improvement and value creation. 
  Specifically, while it is unlikely that we will find something of a 
similar scale to Landmark, at least in the near future, we’ll  
continue to review and pursue opportunities to expand the 
Signature network as and when they arise, whether in the  
USA or elsewhere. We’ll also continue to look for incremental 
investments and acquisitions to enhance Ontic’s licence  
portfolio and, more broadly, will continue to deploy capital  
across the Group where we see the opportunity to generate  
good risk-adjusted returns.  
Q. Why are BBA Aviation’s Values so important?
A.  We are a values-led organisation. Our Vision, Mission and Values 
provide focus and direction for the organisation, and guide each of 
us every day in our personal and business interactions. They were 
introduced in 2007 and they haven’t materially changed in that 
time. They have been effective in driving strategy and the very 
strong performance we have delivered, despite the challenging 
environments we have sometimes faced, and they remain very 
relevant going forward.
Q.  As CEO you have a lot of responsibilities. What keeps you  
awake at night?
A.   I worry about safety. Airports, particularly ramp-side, can be 
dangerous places used by people and vehicles that may have  
a different attitude to safety than we do. This is why we place  
such emphasis on good safety practices and everyone taking  
responsibility for themselves and for others around them. But  
we have the right processes in place and a great team working  
at all levels of the organisation, so I am confident that we are  
doing the right things to mitigate that risk and that we can 
 meet the high standards we have set.
  I worry about our people, who continue to work hard and achieve 
extraordinary things despite the sometimes challenging and 
uncertain environment. In recent years, we have placed even 
greater focus on development programmes and training for 
everyone in the organisation to expand individual capabilities  
and give people the tools needed to reach their potential.
  I also worry about a lot of other little things. However, the nature 
of our business model is such that it can cope with any shocks, 
economic or otherwise. We are in a strong financial position, 
 we are very cash generative with low operational gearing; we  
are not reliant on any one customer, supplier or technology and 
the business is in great shape and has an exciting future.
Q. Of what are you most proud this year?
A.  I am exceptionally proud of the performance of our people.  
It is amazing looking back and seeing what our organisation  
and individuals within it have achieved since we announced  
the Landmark transaction in September 2015. 
  The Landmark deal has significantly expanded the size of 
Signature and we completed the integration within 12 months, 
realising synergies in excess of those identified at the outset of 
the transaction. We successfully sold the six Landmark FBOs  
required by the U.S. Department of Justice and have added 
further Signature locations across the world. ASIG was our largest 
business in terms of employees and we worked extremely hard 
to ensure for them a smooth transition to John Menzies plc. 
Ontic has significantly grown its portfolio, most recently with 
the GE Avionics acquisition, and ERO is in the final stages of this 
phase of its footprint optimisation programme, as it moves repair 
activities out of Forest Park and into its new state-of-the-art 
facility at Dallas Fort Worth. We also reached a further milestone 
at the beginning of 2017 with the formation of Gama Aviation 
Signature Aircraft Management which is one of the largest aircraft 
management and charter businesses in the world.
  I’d like to thank everyone at BBA Aviation for their hard work in 
2016, a year that has been truly transformational for the Group 
and of which our whole organisation can be proud. 7
Strategic Report  
Q&A with Group Chief Executive
 “The cash-generative nature  
of BBA Aviation, as our track 
record demonstrates, means 
we have plenty of capacity to 
continue investing where we 
see opportunities for business 
expansion, improvement and 
value creation”
Signature’s new  
7,500sq ft hangar at  
London  Luton Airport
