 6   BGEO Group PLC  Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Overview
Chairman’s statement
Through this letter, I would like to 
cover four important points: 
1. the current economic and political 
situation in Georgia is solid and its 
outlook promising; 
2. the strategy announced last year is 
more relevant than ever; 
3. the role of corporate governance is a 
keystone of our way of doing business; 
and
4. talent management and incentives drive 
our performance.
I will elaborate on each of these messages 
below.
Politics and the economy 
Last year we witnessed a democratic, 
peaceful change of government. The 
political situation in Georgia is still 
complicated, but a helpful way to look 
at it is across two levels: firstly, on a 
domestic basis, and secondly, on an 
international one, with a particular 
emphasis on its relationship with Russia. 
Let me start by going over a few facts 
about the situation within the country. 
The recent appointment of a strong 
prime minister has brought about a 
number of initiatives, including a four-
point plan to speed up economic 
growth. Highlights include a reform of the 
education system, which aims to create 
professional higher education systems 
in line with the demands of the labour 
market, tax code amendments aimed 
at further liberalizing tax and customs 
procedures, policies to speed up the 
implementation of infrastructure projects, 
and governance reform to allow legal 
entities to receive services based on a 
single window principle, similarly to how 
individuals currently receive services 
at public service halls in Georgia. 
In addition, governance of the country has 
progressed. Firstly, the judiciary system 
has been reformed, and the courts in 
Georgia are now independent. Secondly, 
the President has created an institutionally 
distinct office for the Presidency, which 
reinforces checks and balances. Thirdly, 
the Central Bank now has a respected new 
governor with an IMF background and an 
independent board has been named to 
check its power. Finally, the country enjoys 
independent TV stations and newspapers, 
representing many points of views. 
We will have the next Parliamentary 
elections in October 2016, which could 
either lead to a more pluralistic political 
situation or a reelection of the current 
government. It is difficult to predict the 
outcome, but on the whole the country 
has been moving in the right direction 
with a peaceful and democratic change 
of government. The new government 
favours competence over loyalty, and a 
reaffirmation of its pro-Western position 
with the signing and implementation of 
an EU association agreement. Finally, the 
assets of the country are being developed, 
principally tourism and water. This points 
to a promising path ahead, although 
not necessarily a predictable one. 
On the international front, relations 
with Russia have improved and Russia 
has been focusing on other fronts. 
The majority of the population, 70% to 
be precise, would not trade today for 
yesterday. Georgia will continue its quest 
for NATO membership, ensuring close 
cooperation but probably not accession. 
Most promising for Georgia is the entry 
of Iran into the community of nations. On 
the Iranian New Year in 2016, numerous 
tourists could be seen in Tbilisi. One 
can hope that investments might follow 
and that Georgia could become an 
important trade partner to this nation. 
In fact, Georgia could do extremely well. 
The country’s success will be built on 
tourism, rich ecology and casinos. It will 
require a service infrastructure of hotels, 
banks and eventually hospitals. It will 
also bring investment in transportation, 
pipelines, railroads, and ports to connect 
to its neighbours. The industrial strategy 
of this country is right. It is pragmatic 
and, if anything, it is too prudent. Most 
importantly, BGEO plays a crucial role 
in it. One could say that what is good 
for Georgia is good for BGEO. 
Our new strategy is promising
Last year we adopted a two-pronged 
strategy. Firstly, we would continue to 
make the Bank of Georgia a cost and 
Neil Janin
Chairman
“I am proud to announce  
that BGEO performed very 
well, reporting GEL 310.9 
million in profit, which 
demonstrates year over year 
growth of 29. 1 %. This is 
particularly impressive 
considering the challenges 
we have faced in 2015, 
including weak oil  
prices, foreign exchange 
fluctuations, and a  
complex political context. 
The Group’s results are 
presented in our CEO’s  
letter and in various  
sections of this report.” Annual Report 2015  BGEO Group PLC   7
Strategic report
Overview Governance
Financial 
statements
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Additional 
information
innovation leader. The Bank is our most 
precious asset and it continues to perform 
well and deliver as you will read later in this 
report. Secondly, we aim to buy assets in 
Georgia cheaply, grow them, and sell them 
to investors at a higher price. This way 
we will make money for our shareholders, 
bring money in the local economy, 
and provide foreign investors with an 
opportunity to own high-yielding assets. 
Let me start with the Bank. We appointed 
a new CEO for Bank of Georgia, Murtaz 
Kikoria, and promoted Irakli Gilauri to 
Chairman of the Bank. We wanted to have 
one person concentrate on minding the 
day to day affairs of the Bank, allowing 
Irakli Gilauri to focus on our new ventures. 
Murtaz is the orchestra conductor we 
need to lead and support the very strong 
cast of top executives of the Bank. With 
the support of Irakli Gilauri, his mission is 
to make sure that the Bank continues to 
perform and transform itself. The Bank’s 
agenda is full. In the retail bank, we are 
preparing to change the approach of our 
main branches from a product to a client 
one. This means that we will focus on 
client needs in order to propose suitable 
products, rather than push products to 
all clients in an indiscriminate manner. 
It involves a major cultural change and 
a transformation of our processes, the 
configuration of our branches and most 
importantly the mindset of our employees. 
We have also decided to merge the 
areas of corporate banking, investment 
banking, and wealth management. We 
are well regarded in this domain, and have 
accumulated a wealth of knowledge and 
capital markets capabilities in the Georgian 
and neighbouring markets during the 
past several years through our corporate 
advisory, research and brokerage 
practices united under Galt & Taggart. Galt 
& Taggart research aims to help decision 
makers – policymakers, International 
financial institutions, businesses and 
foreign investors – appreciate the 
opportunities of investing in Georgia and 
the South Caucasus. In this context, our 
wealth management/investment banking 
business has plenty of room to grow.
Our 2015 highlight was the successful 
IPO of Georgia Healthcare Group 
PLC on the London Stock Exchange. 
We were able to float c.35% of GHG 
and raise US$ 100 million that we 
will invest to grow GHG further. 
What we are doing in health care is a 
good illustration of the uniqueness of our 
strategy, which has three components. 
Firstly, we can buy assets cheaper than 
others. Why? Assets in Georgia are small 
and owned by individuals who need a lot of 
hand-holding in Georgian - something that 
foreign buyers have neither the ability nor 
the time to do. We may have bought more 
than 40 hospitals, but they were bought 
one by one, often from local doctors who 
made their own decisions, and would 
not just sell to anyone with money.
Secondly, we provided our health care 
subsidiary with very capable managers, 
starting with its CEO Nikoloz Gamkrelidze. 
Nick is a good example of a manager 
who developed his skills over the course 
of his career at the Bank of Georgia. We 
grow this talent within the Bank, as it is 
difficult to find local managers capable 
of executing sophisticated strategies. 
Otherwise, we sometimes attract Georgian 
talent from Europe or the US. These 
people will only return if they are offered a 
sizeable challenge, a promise of personal 
development, attractive incentives, and an 
overall feeling that they are contributing to 
the well-being of the country. Small, family 
owned companies cannot do that, nor can 
foreign investors. We are putting a special 
emphasis on talent in this annual report. 
Thirdly, we have implemented world class 
governance systems including a robust 
Board. If you look at the Board of GHG, 
you will see a mixture of members who 
have experience in Georgia, as well as new 
independent members chosen for their 
competence and judgment. In this specific 
case: insurance, medicine, medical 
supply, and hospital management. We 
intend to replicate this set up in all areas 
that we are committed to developing.
GHG is not our only investment. Irakli 
Gilauri will give you a short description of 
our portfolio investments, which include 
real estate, utilities, power generation, and 
consumer goods. We look at our portfolio 
of investments as trees in a forest: some 
are mature and solid, others are promising 
saplings. When we see an opportunity to 
create value, we will not hesitate to bet on 
it. Similarly, if we cannot see potential, we 
will hold back. Unlike a private equity firm, 
we are under no pressure or obligation to 
invest any of our reserves, and if we cannot 
find interesting opportunities, we will 
return the money to shareholders, either 
through dividends or stock buybacks. 
Corporate governance and talent 
development
The Board plays an important role in 
our companies. The BGEO board is 
composed of an array of highly competent 
individuals with complementary skill sets 
needed to run our businesses. The board 
works collectively with management to 
set the strategy and review operations. 
In fact, we set aside days every year to 
review asset allocation and investments. 
We encourage dialogue and discussion 
before taking any decision. 
Additionally, each member is encouraged 
to interact with management members as 
advisors. The nature of contribution varies, 
from providing expertise and judgement to 
coaching and development. Allow me to 
introduce them to you: Hanna Loikkanen 
is very experienced investor in Russia 
and the CJS. She brings her wisdom 
and judgment as an investment manager 
to evaluating our investments. David 
Morrison, the Board’s vice chairman, is 
our guardian. He is aware of our fiduciary 
responsibilities and regulatory obligations, 
making sure we do the right things the 
right way. His long tenure at Sullivan and 
Cromwell in New York, Paris and Frankfurt 
serves him well in this regard. Al Breach is 
an outstanding macro-economic investor. 
His point of view is invaluable in making 
funding decisions and advising the Bank 
on its asset and liability management. 
Kaha Kiknavelidze is also a macro investor 
who, as a Georgian, gives us an insight 
into the local economy which we would 
not otherwise have. Tamaz Georgadze is 
the second Georgian on our Board with a 
specialty in digital and retail banking. He 
heads his own very successful FinTech 
company based in Berlin, and was one 
of the foremost retail banking experts 
at McKinsey. Kim Bradley is our real 
estate guru, with 25 years’ experience 
behind him in multiple markets. One of 
the contributions he made to m
2
, our  8   BGEO Group PLC  Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Overview
real estate subsidiary, was helping them 
build their risk management system and 
manage their liquidity risk. Last but not 
least, Bozidar Djelic, with an extensive 
experience in government, as a banker, 
and as advisor to a number of countries, 
helps us with government relations, capital 
markets, and provides the group with a rich 
perspective and judgment in this region. 
My job is to manage the Board, ensure 
that we have the right people on the 
board and in leadership positions in 
the key areas of the Bank, and facilitate 
and frame discussions on all areas, but 
especially on strategy and execution. 
It is worth mentioning that the board 
meets without the CEO at every board 
meeting and that we run regular third 
party evaluations of our effectiveness and 
continue to rank very highly. We still lack 
the diversity that we would like to see, but 
we are working on it. We had promised to 
onboard two women, but have only invited 
one so far. We are actively searching. 
Finally, the Board of course fulfils its 
fiduciary duties. We have meaningful 
discussions in the committees, as 
you will see in the reports of the 
Chairmen of each committee below.
Succession planning and Talent 
management
This is a young company and the top 
managers of the organization are the 
ones who built it. The Board is aware and 
concerned by the necessity of preparing 
a new generation of leaders for the long 
term. It is our highest priority today. We 
have encouraged the bank to change the 
scope of its human resources strategy 
and to develop a pipeline of leaders at 
an early stage. Promising employees 
should be tracked and developed by 
giving them appropriate opportunities and 
timely leadership and technical training. 
For those already at the top, the incentive 
system is as follows: our partners, 15 in 
total, take home the minimum they need 
 to live well, with the rest being stock 
vesting in five years. If they make the 
shareholders rich in the long term, 
they too will be rich. There are no ways 
for executives to finesse the system 
and play the short term. Above all, no 
cash, just stock vesting in five years. 
It is not an appropriate incentive 
system for every company. For ours, 
a young growing company, it works 
and keeps everyone’s mind focused 
on making money for shareholders.
Beyond top management, we are 
committed to building a culture where 
personal growth and development are 
encouraged. We are making a point to 
show you our top 100 executives in this 
report. We have made changes to our 
human resources management and 
we intend to reinforce our capacity to 
attract, develop and promote talent in 
all areas of the group. We have named 
one of our most creative executives as 
head of HR, with a precise mandate.
Regarding succession, the Board has a 
definite plan of what we would do in the 
case that our current CEO is no longer 
able to continue. He has been key to our 
success. However, we are building the 
bench behind Irakli Gilauri by promoting 
more people to positions that cover duties 
he was doing directly. We cannot replace 
Irakli Gilauri, but we can build talent around 
him and introduce a way of doing business 
that will become BGEO’s trademark and 
culture. Irakli is keen to see that happen 
and is showing the way to all his team. 
I hope this letter has helped inform our 
shareholders of the current situation of 
BGEO and its promising outlook. While the 
strategy and future of group is solid and 
the political context promising, investing 
in operations in countries such as Georgia 
can still feel daunting. Therefore as a final 
point, I wanted to highlight our liquidity 
situation which will allow us to weather 
whatever storm may come in our path and 
enable us to achieve long term success. 
Irakli Gilauri elaborates on this below. 
At the 2016 Annual General Meeting, the 
Board intends to recommend an annual 
dividend of GEL 2.4 per share payable 
in British Pound Sterling at the prevailing 
rate. This is in the range of our payout 
ratio target of 25-40% and represents a 
14% increase over the 2014 dividend.
Chairman’s statement continued
I feel very fortunate and proud to be part 
of the remarkable journey of this institution 
and this country. I am proud of the work 
accomplished by CEO Irakli Gilauri and his 
entire management team. I am touched 
by their desire to not only build a great 
company, but also do well for the country. 
Finally, I am grateful for the investors 
who trust them with their money. I think 
they too can be proud and take comfort 
in the returns on their investment.
 
Neil Janin
Chairman
7 March 2016
