 Annual Report 2015  BGEO Group PLC   9
Strategic report
Overview Governance
Financial 
statements
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Additional 
information
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Dear Shareholders,
A key challenge for any company is how it 
performs in a difficult macro-economic 
environment. This challenge has been 
successfully met by BGEO Group as your 
Company managed to deliver a record 
high profit in US Dollar terms despite the 
backdrop of the Lari weakening by more 
than 35% versus US dollar compared to 
pre-depreciation levels and the uncertain 
macro-economic environment in the region 
throughout 2015. This success was mainly 
driven by two major factors:
• People working for the Group; and
• Strategic decisions made by the 
Board in the past 5-7 years.
These two factors – the people 
working for your company and the 
long term vision we have for each  
of our business lines – will be a 
leitmotif to this letter, in which I 
focus on: strategy – for our Banking 
and Investment Businesses as well 
as for the Group in terms of capital 
returns and allocations; and talent 
development.
Banking Business:
Two key metrics we measure our  
Banking Business performance against  
are Return on Average Equity (ROAE) and 
retail loan book growth, each targeted at 
the 20% level. As outlined in detail later in 
this report, both targets were achieved by 
a considerable margin; we grew the retail 
loan book by 35% and delivered c. 22% 
ROAE. To further improve profitability we 
set a 3-year target to increase the share  
of Retail Banking lending in the overall loan 
book, from the current 56% to a targeted 
65% level. Bank of Georgia is also well 
positioned in terms of both capital and 
liquidity to deliver on its growth strategy. 
Let me outline the background as well as 
the strategy going forward for each of the 
banking segments:
Retail Banking:
Retail Banking delivered a stellar 
performance by reaching c. 2 million 
clients, delivering loan book growth and 
ROAE targets. The acquisition and 
successful integration of PrivatBank 
Georgia played a major role. 
To further improve profitability  
we set a 3-year target to increase 
the share of Retail Banking lending 
in the overall loan book, from the 
current 56% to a targeted 65% 
level. Bank of Georgia is also  
well positioned in terms of both 
capital and liquidity to deliver on  
its growth strategy.
In order to better connect with the various 
segments of the retail client base, we 
operate a multi-brand strategy:
• Our Express Bank brand is aimed  
at the emerging bankable population. 
Express serves as a platform for 
bringing the currently under-banked 
population into banking and its main 
focus is to enable its client base to 
transact in a fast and easy way. We also 
sell only a limited number of banking 
products to our Express banking 
clients. Currently, 77 out of a total of 
114 Express branches are located in 
Tbilisi and going forward we would 
like to roll out Express branches in 
regions to reach a wider population. 
The all-in cost of opening a new 
Express branch is just US$ 50,000. 
• Under the Bank of Georgia brand,  
we are serving mass retail clients. 
We have historically been very much 
a product-driven organisation, which 
helped us in acquiring new clients. 
However, we now have a relationship 
with c. 2 million clients and our 
challenge for the next three years is 
to increase the product to client ratio 
from a current low of 1.7 to 3.0. To this 
end, we intend to shift our business 
model from product to client centric. 
In 2016, we would like to move to a 
focused service model in 10 branches, 
where clients have a single touch-
point to acquire products and receive 
consultation. In the medium-term, 
we intend to convert the Bank of 
Georgia brand into a single touch-
point front office organisation. 
Irakli Gilauri,  
Chief Executive Officer
“As a leitmotif to this letter I 
would like to draw your 
attention to people working 
for your company and long 
term vision we have for each 
of our business lines.” 10   BGEO Group PLC  Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Overview
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
• Our new Solo model was introduced 
in 2015 and the major part of our 
planned lounge roll-out has now been 
completed. The Solo brand is used for 
servicing the emerging mass affluent 
segment. To qualify for Solo services 
one needs to have an income of GEL 
3,000 per month. At Solo lounges, 
clients are served by personal bankers 
and, in addition to banking products, 
are offered luxury goods at cost and 
other lifestyle offers including a travel 
magazine and entertainment. Recently, 
Solo presented a Sting concert to its 
clients at a concert that was limited 
to Solo clients only, which created 
further interest in the Solo franchise. 
We intend to grow the number of 
Solo clients to 40,000 by the end of 
2018, from the current 12,000 level. 
Net profit per Solo client stood at GEL 
1,350 in 2015, over 20 times of what 
we have in the mass retail segment 
under the Bank of Georgia brand.
Another big project targeted for 2016 in 
retail banking will be to plan and begin to 
implement a new strategy for the 
digitalization of banking services. 
Digitalization will play a major part in 
making our services more competitive and 
at the same time more efficient.
Retail Banking is headed by Mikheil 
Gomarteli, who joined the Bank 19 years 
ago and his first job was to sell debit cards 
door-to-door. Before heading Retail 
Banking, Mikheil worked in almost every 
position in the bank: teller, credit analyst, 
and headed our reporting and budgeting, 
marketing, and branch management 
departments. Mikheil is leading a group of 
excellent Retail Bankers and their inside-
out knowledge of Retail Banking and 
detailed understanding of business are 
invaluable for the further success of the 
business line. 
Corporate and Investment Banking:
Our Corporate Bank has increased its 
ROAE from 12% in 2014 to 16% in 2015. 
We believe the current risk return profile of 
corporate business is not as attractive as 
the Bank runs a relatively concentrated 
loan book, with the top 10 exposures 
accounting for 12.4% of total loan book. 
Therefore, our major strategic goal is to de-
concentrate the corporate loan book, while 
stepping up our investment Banking 
Business by issuing corporate bonds in the 
local market. We have already made 
progress in this regard in 2015; we have 
decreased concentration from 15.7% in 
2014 to 12.4% in 2015, and at the same 
time issued bonds worth US$ 63 million in 
the local market. Going forward, we are 
also targeting to syndicate out our large 
exposures to local and international 
players. 
Georgia is becoming the service 
hub of the region and we expect to 
grow our business on the back of it. 
Further growing our wealth 
management platform is essential in 
order for us to issue local corporate 
bonds. This strategy should result 
in further de-concentrating the loan 
book, enhancing the fee-based 
business, increasing ROAE and 
improving the overall risk return 
profile of the segment.
In order to further capture synergies 
between the corporate banking and 
investment management (investment 
banking and wealth management 
franchises) and expedite the process of 
developing the local capital market,  
we have decided to merge these two 
business lines. 
We have appointed Archil Gachechiladze 
to head the merged entity. Archil joined the 
Bank in 2009, and he has headed both the 
corporate banking and the investment 
management businesses. Archil has 
delivered great results in both corporate 
banking and investment management and 
his obviously successful track record was 
the key reason for the Board’s decision to 
appoint Archil as head of Corporate and 
Investment Banking. Archil is a Cornell 
MBA and worked at Lehman Brothers’ 
Private Equity arm prior to returning to 
Georgia. He has built an excellent team 
around him. Archil’s superb strategic 
vision, insights on both corporate banking 
and the investment management 
businesses, as well as his great execution 
skills will be the key to deliver on the 
merged CIB strategy.
The Bank’s cost discipline:
Identifying and eliminating unnecessary 
costs is part of our DNA. We have been 
running positive operating leverage for 
quite some time. We also have a strong 
history of successfully acquiring and 
integrating other financial institutions and 
delivering substantial cost synergies. The 
most recent opportunity was the 
successful integration of PrivatBank 
Georgia in 2015, where we fully integrated 
a bank with 400,000 active clients within 4 
months while eliminating unnecessary 
costs and delivering on annualised pre-tax 
synergies of GEL 30 million, GEL 5 million 
more than initially announced. 
Our three-year target is to maintain 
a 35% cost to income ratio. 
Effective implementation of the 
client-centric model in Retail 
Banking as well as digitalisation  
will have a positive contribution  
to the low Cost to Income ratio 
going forward. 
Tornike Gogichaishvili heads our 
operations overseeing operating and 
capital expenditures and his contribution  
to the 36% cost to income ratio is 
tremendous. Tornike joined the Group in 
2006 and soon became CEO of our 
insurance business. Tornike also played a 
crucial role in capturing efficiencies in our 
Ukrainian banking subsidiary. Tornike has 
been heading the Bank’s operations 
business since 2010. His deep 
understanding of business and processes 
is the key to successfully capturing further 
cost efficiencies going forward.
The Bank’s risk management:
In the year of a major depreciation against 
the US Dollar, I would like to focus on 
credit risk as it is by far the largest risk 
category that any bank is exposed to. 
Our risk department is best in class. 
They have passed the test of 
prudence and control both in 2008 
during the global financial crisis, 
when cost of risk stayed within the 
Bank’s net interest margin, as well 
as in 2015, when the currency lost 
more than 35% of its value against 
US dollar compared to pre-
depreciation levels. 
Investors often ask me how we retained 
such a low cost of risk (2.7%), in a year of 
sharp depreciation in consideration that 
72% of our loan book is denominated in 
foreign currency, mostly US Dollars. The 
simple answer to this question is that 
Georgian bank balance sheets have been 
mainly in US Dollars for the past 20 years  Annual Report 2015  BGEO Group PLC   11
Strategic report
Overview Governance
Financial 
statements
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Additional 
information
or so and we manage currency risk, just  
as banks with local currency balance 
sheets manage the interest rate risk.  
(We have limited interest rate risk in our 
balance sheet.) 
How do we manage the foreign exchange 
risk? Currency-wise, our balance sheet is 
matched on both sides. Our clients who 
have local currency income and loan in US 
Dollars are exposed to currency risk, which 
makes us consider carefully how to 
manage their risk. We manage our clients’ 
risk in two ways: first, we issue these 
clients 20% less loan compared to issuing 
a Georgian Lari loan, in doing so we are 
creating a depreciation buffer. Secondly, 
we issue shorter-term loans than we would 
have issued in the first place and at the 
same time we keep a positive liquidity gap 
in our balance sheet, so if there is a need 
to prolong a loan to our client we have the 
capability to do so. Under the above credit 
conditions not many qualify for US Dollar 
borrowing. One of the reasons for the low 
penetration of loans compared to GDP is 
due to this conservative underwriting policy 
used by Georgian banks. 
90% of our corporate loan book is 
denominated in foreign currency, mainly 
US Dollars - of which 50% have US Dollar 
income and the rest do not. Because the 
Georgian economy is dollarised and a US 
Dollar proxy economy, when the Georgian 
Lari weakens all corporate players behave 
in a similar way: they adjust prices, capture 
efficiencies and adjust to the new reality. 
As Georgia is an oil-importing country, 
Georgian corporates had a big saving from 
lower oil prices, but the adjustment of 
prices on their final goods was not as 
dramatic as it could have been. Hence 
inflation in the country was recorded below 
5% in 2015. Weak corporates, whose 
businesses were struggling even before 
depreciation, go out of the business, 
healthier companies will need some sort of 
prolongation, but their business continues 
to generate the cash and service the debt 
on a monthly basis as they used to do,  
and strong companies do not even need 
prolongation. This is exactly what 
happened during the recent depreciation. 
On the retail side of the balance sheet we 
have 54% of loans in foreign currency, 
mostly US Dollar and the remaining in 
Georgian Lari. Georgian Lari-denominated 
loans are mainly issued as consumer loans 
and credit cards to 400,000 customers. So 
the mass population are not exposed to 
currency risk. c. 21% of the retail loan book 
is in foreign currency, mainly US Dollar 
loans to SMEs and Micros and the 
situation with these customers is very 
similar to corporate clients, as described 
above. C. 26% of the loan book is in 
mortgages and the remaining c. 7% is 
consumer loan and credit cards. When 
underwriting the mortgages we use a 20% 
buffer and issue shorter-term. So, the 
maximum term of the mortgage in Georgia 
is generally 10 years. With this pre-
condition not many qualify, and actually 
only the best quality borrowers we have 
are our mortgage borrowers. In total there 
are only c. 38,000 mortgages outstanding 
in the whole country. We announced the 
automatic re-profiling of the mortgage 
loans. Basically, we offered automatic 
prolongation of the mortgage loans in  
such a way that Georgian Lari monthly 
payment stayed at a similar level as it was 
before the depreciation. As we have top 
quality mortgage borrowers, out of our 
13,000 mortgage borrowers only 1,100 
took the offer.
Giorgi Chiladze is Chief Risk Officer of the 
Bank. Giorgi earned his PhD in physics 
from Johns Hopkins University. He has 
excellent judgement and a strong 
understanding of the big picture that 
serves all of our shareholders well. In 
Giorgi’s hands we are much safer. 
 
Leadership transition in Banking 
Business:
One of our major challenges for 2015 was 
to make sure that banking continued to 
perform well as I was handing over the 
leadership of Banking Business to  
Murtaz Kikoria. 
Murtaz is a seasoned banker  
with more than 25 years’  
experience in this sector. Murtaz 
served as a banking regulator, who 
institutionalised banking regulation 
from the early 2000s and made the 
Georgian banking sector extremely 
resilient. He has occupied top 
positions in leading Georgian banks 
as well as a Senior Banker position 
at EBRD. 
Murtaz joined the Bank in 2008, his major 
achievement was the successful 
turnaround of our Ukrainian banking 
subsidiary and its subsequent divestment. 
Murtaz also served as CEO of our 
healthcare business where he acquired a 
number of different hospitals, contributing 
in a major way to the successful GHG IPO. 
Murtaz’s deep knowledge of banking, as 
well as his great people skills, will be key  
to the success of our Banking Business 
going forward.
Investment Business:
In last year’s letter to shareholders, I 
outlined in detail the way we invest in and 
manage companies. In brief, I would say 
that the strategy of our Investment 
Business is very simple: we buy companies 
or assets cheaply, institutionalising them by 
allocating and developing top talent in 
Georgia, eliminating unnecessary costs, 
growing the companies as market leaders 
in order to achieve scale-driven cost 
advantage, and crystalising the value of the 
them within six years. We invest in small 
ticket sizes; usually we would not invest 
more than US$ 25 million in any new 
opportunity. We also like to stage 
investments to limit the risks. Once we 
make sure that an appropriate level of 
institutionalisation has been achieved in the 
portfolio company, we may invest in bigger 
ticket sizes. To this end, we like bolt-on 
acquisitions to expedite the market 
leadership and scale-driven cost 
advantage. Bolt-on acquisitions also 
enable us to capture cost synergies and 
eliminate unnecessary costs. The GHG 
case study in this Annual Report outlines 
our strategy of doing investments. 
In pursuing this strategy, we aim to achieve 
at least a 20% IRR. The limited access to 
capital in this small frontier economy is one 
of the reasons we are able buy cheaply. 
So, the availability of cash at all times at 
the Group level is critical to seize 
opportunities quickly.
Overall, the performance of the 
Investment Business was 
exceptional in 2015. We have 
delivered consolidated profit growth 
of 81%. The growth was mainly 
driven by GHG’s superb 
performance and m
2
 Real Estate 
completing its projects ahead of 
deadline and within budget. The 
IPO of GHG was the key milestone 
in the Investment Business as we 
managed to crystalise the value of 
our investment and achieve a 
triple-digit IRR. 12   BGEO Group PLC  Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Overview
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued
Let me speak to our portfolio companies 
one by one:
Georgia Healthcare Group: 
GHG’s main goal is to double its 
2015 healthcare revenue in 2018 
while producing c. 30% EBITDA 
margin. 
The Company targets to achieve this 
revenue growth by growing its market 
share by number of beds in the hospital 
business from the current 27% level to 
c.30% by the end of 2018. The Company is 
also in the process of rolling out a national 
chain of ambulatory clinics where its 
market share by revenue is currently just 
1% and GHG is targeting to grow this to 
5% by the end of 2018. 
At the beginning of 2016, GHG  
made a strategic move to expand into 
pharmaceuticals. Subject to regulatory 
approvals, GHG has agreed to acquire 
GPC, the third-largest retail and  
wholesale pharmacy chain in Georgia.  
This acquisition will enable GHG to 
become the largest drug purchaser in  
the country and be present in the entire 
healthcare eco-system which amounts to 
GEL 3.4 billion. The pharmacy business is 
expected to be highly synergistic both to 
reduce the cost of drugs for our hospitals 
as well as to cross-sell through GPC’s 
loyalty programme to ambulatories. GPC 
has c. 12 million customer interactions 
per annum. It is expected GHG will  
open pharmacies on the premises of 
approximately 40 hospitals and large 
ambulatory clinics owned by GHG to boost 
the revenue of GPC. The acquisition price 
of GPC implies 5.7 times EV/EBITDA 
before eliminating unnecessary costs  
and capturing further cost and revenue 
synergies. The post-synergy multiple is 3.3.
GHG is led by Nick Gamkrelidze, who 
joined the Group’s insurance subsidiary 
business in 2006, soon becoming its CEO, 
and embarked on the healthcare strategy 
in 2011. As part of our talent management 
policy we have rotated Nick as CFO of the 
Group in order to get him familiarised with 
the working of a public company. Nick had 
demonstrated outstanding performance 
both running the healthcare business and 
being CFO of the Group. Nick is a good 
example of how one can become public 
company CEO in our Group by constantly 
learning and developing. Nick’s cost 
discipline and strategic vision is the key to 
the success of GHG and its IPO. Nick is 
leading a highly capable team and I 
strongly believe that under Nick’s 
leadership, the GHG team will deliver  
on its strategy.
You can find out more about GHG by 
visiting its IR website at www.ghg.com.ge
m
2
 Real Estate:
After launching the Real Estate Business  
in 2011, m
2
 has developed, or is in the 
process of developing 2,500 units, of 
which over 1,600 have already been sold. 
In a very short period of time m
2
 has 
become the largest residential developer in 
the country, enjoying scale advantage to 
be a lowest cost producer. To this end, in 
the past four-year period, m
2
 has managed 
to make housing more affordable in 
Georgia, bring the price of a one-bedroom 
apartment from US$ 40,000 to US$ 
29,000 in Tbilisi, while producing an 
average 65% IRR on its housing projects. 
The m
2
 housing business also 
complements our Retail Banking and  
helps to generate mortgages.
If you want to buy an apartment starting at 
US$ 29,000 in Tbilisi and have it rented out 
by m
2
, please email us: 29000@m2.ge. 
m
2
 has a strong franchise, excellent  
track record and solid balance sheet to 
accelerate its growth. Currently, m
2
 has a 
land bank with an estimated value of US$ 
34 million, where we can develop more 
than 5,200 apartments. Demand for 
apartments is expected to grow further  
as the country is becoming service hub of 
the region and urbanisation is expected to 
continue. At the same time due to a 
shortage of housing during Soviet-times 
and the Georgian tradition of multi-
generations living in one apartment 
resulted in 3.7 people living in one 
apartment in Tbilisi. On top of this, c. 70% 
of apartments are amortised in Tbilisi, as 
they were built in the Soviet times. 
The good news is that, alongside the 
housing development, we can develop 
commercial real estate, such as hotels and 
retail real estate. Our intention is to develop 
these projects over the next 4-5 years and 
retain yielding assets on m
2
 books. The 
number of visitors in Georgia grew from 
560,000 in 2007 to nearly 6 million in 2015, 
while branded hotel rooms had a marginal 
growth to only 1,200 rooms in Tbilisi. Hotel 
room growth was mainly attributed to 
four-star hotels, while family-run small 
hotels are servicing the rest of the visitors. 
For the budget hotel segment, we observe 
increasing prices and high utilisation levels. 
We think with our m
2
 franchise we can add 
value in this sector and, therefore, we have 
signed a 7-year exclusivity with Wyndham 
for the Ramada Encore brand to develop 
three-star hotels. Due to the limited supply 
of three star hotels, we see a significant 
opportunity in this segment, especially 
against the background of expected 
further growth in the number of foreign 
visitors. Georgia is truly becoming the 
major destination in the region. 
At the same time, we are starting the 
development of third party land to earn 
fees. Our customer-driven franchise,  
sales channels and being a low-cost 
producer puts us in a unique position  
to generate fees, while not taking balance 
sheet risk from re-investing m
2
 profit into 
the development of the land bank. To  
this end, on the back of performance 
between now and 2019, m
2
 is targeting to 
pay US$ 20-25 million in dividends to 
BGEO Group.
Over the next 4-5 years, our 
intention is to grow m
2
 into a Real 
Estate Investment Trust with an 
asset manager attached to it – in 
addition to generating rental 
income, m
2
 will be targeting to 
generate fees from third party  
land development. 
Irakli Burdiladze heads our Real Estate 
Business. Irakli joined Bank of Georgia as 
CFO in 2006. In 2010, when we decided  
to develop land which the Bank had 
repossessed after the 2008/09 crises,  
Irakli was assigned to spearhead our Real 
Estate Business. I have met no one more 
passionate about the Real Estate Business  Annual Report 2015  BGEO Group PLC   13
Strategic report
Overview Governance
Financial 
statements
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Additional 
information
in Georgia than Irakli. Irakli’s strategic 
thinking, and his excellent people, sales 
and execution skills enabled him to build  
a strong cash flow generating institution 
and I am confident in his ability, with the 
help of his excellent team, to deliver on  
our strategy.
Georgia Renewable Power Company 
(the hydro business – GRPC):
Our investment so far in our hydropower 
station business has been very small, but 
its prospects are tremendous. We decided 
to develop hydros in Georgia due to the 
simple fact that the cost of developing one 
MW of hydro is at least two times cheaper 
than in neighbouring countries. At the 
same time, domestic electricity 
consumption in Georgia has grown by 
3.6% CAGR from 2007 through 2015. As 
we did not know how to develop hydros 
ourselves, we have entered into a joint 
venture with RP Global, an experienced 
Austrian hydro development company. 
BGEO Group owns 65% in the joint  
venture and RP Global owns the  
remaining equity interest. 
Our intention is to build 4 hydro 
stations by the end of 2019 with total 
capacity of 105 MW. In addition, we 
plan to do detailed feasibility studies 
(ready to build) of additional hydros 
with a total capacity of 150 MW. We 
have earmarked US$ 25 million in 
equity investment over the next 3 
years to build the first four 105 MW 
hydros. After launching the hydros in 
2019, we expect to produce a ROAE 
of 20%+. 
One can build hydros cheaply in Georgia 
for two main reasons: 1. Georgia has a lot 
of hydro resources due to the Caucasus 
mountains and climate; and 2. these 
resources have not been tapped as access 
to capital has been limited.
On the demand side, domestic energy 
consumption will increase to match the 
requirements of Georgia’s growing 
economy, as well as increased external 
demand from our neighbours such as 
Turkey, Russia and Iran. Now that Iran is 
opening-up, it needs energy to develop its 
economy. The way our hydro licence is 
structured is that we are obliged to sell 
electricity during four months in autumn 
and winter in Georgia, when hydro 
generation (78% of energy produced in 
Georgia is hydro) is at a low level in 
Georgia, while we are free to sell energy 
during 8 months in spring, summer and 
autumn, when energy consumption is high 
in Turkey and Iran, due to the heavy usage 
of air conditioning. This way, throughout 
the year, we should be able to capture the 
most optimal sales price.
GRPC is led by Avto Namicheishvili,  
who is also Group General Legal Counsel. 
Avto joined the Group in 2007 and 
executed all major M&A and IPO 
transactions for our Group. While Avto 
acted as the Group’s legal counsel, he  
has accumulated tremendous business 
experience and we would like to leverage 
his knowledge in developing our hydro 
business. Avto’s execution skills, excellent 
people skills and out-of-the-box thinking 
will be critical in institutionalising our hydro 
development capabilities, which I believe 
will create a lot of value for our 
shareholders going forward. Through 
ongoing Board participation, Avto also 
helps me to manage our other Investment 
Businesses. He is one of the key players  
in executing our Investment Business 
strategy. 
Georgian Global Utilities (water utility 
and hydro business – GGU):
After the acquisition of our 25% stake in 
GGU in December 2014, we initiated senior 
management changes, which triggered 
substantial improvements in the operating 
business. 
As GGU is an infrastructure company we 
closely follow cash flow generation 
capabilities and want to make sure that by 
eliminating water losses, which currently 
stand at c. 50%, GGU delivers sustainable 
cash flow growth. As GGU consumes its 
own energy, generated by 135 MW hydro 
stations, efficiency improvements will have 
a double effect as freed-up energy can be 
sold to third parties. 
We are also developing hydro resources 
using the existing infrastructure of the 
Company. In 2015 we identified two 
stations with a total capacity of 16 MW. 
Building run-on hydros using the GGU 
infrastructure decreases the cost of 
development by 20-30%.
We aim to deliver GEL 80 million 
EBITDA in 2018 by reducing water 
losses and building new hydros. 
GGU is expected to pay dividends 
on the back of its 2016 performance 
and step up the dividends to at 
least GEL 20 million per annum  
from 2018. 
GGU is headed by Giorgi Tskhadadze, 
formerly CFO of Borjomi, a leading 
beverage company in Georgia. Giorgi has 
demonstrated an excellent track record in 
capturing efficiencies and streamlining 
operations. Giorgi Vakhtangishvili is CFO of 
GGU. He joined the Company in April 2015, 
previously serving as the #2 person in m
2
 
Real Estate. His contribution to the success 
of the GGU turnaround is equally important. 
Teliani Valley (beverage business):
Teliani Valley is one of the largest wine 
producers in the country, selling c. 3 million 
bottles a year. Its 2015 EBITDA was GEL 
3.9 million, a decrease compared to 2014 
as currencies lost values sharply, leading 
to decreased demand in Teliani’s major 
export markets, such as Ukraine and 
Kazakhstan. Teliani also operates a leading 
distribution company, distributing its own 
as well as third party goods. Teliani is also 
the distributor of imported Heineken beer. 
In 2016, Teliani is launching a beer 
and soft drinks production line, 
which will be a major source for its 
growth. Because of Teliani’s 
distribution capabilities, Heineken 
granted Teliani with a 10-year 
licence to bottle beer for Georgia, 
Azerbaijan and Armenia. 
BGEO Group owns 71% of Teliani and 
intends to invest US$ 10 million in equity to 
build the Heineken brewery in Georgia. The 
brewery will also produce other Heineken 
brands, mainstream beer and local 
lemonades. Teliani is targeting to launch 
beer production by the end of 2016. The  14   BGEO Group PLC  Annual Report 2015
Strategic report Overview
brewery will have a capacity of c. 300,000 
hectolitres and will be scalable to 500,000 
hectolitres. The total project cost is US$ 37 
million. The beer market in Georgia is 
highly concentrated; Efes Group owns 
57% of the market share and 35% is 
owned by a local producer. Going forward, 
Teliani may become a diversified beverage 
producer in Georgia.
Shota Kobelia heads Teliani Valley. Shota 
joined Teliani in 2009. Prior to joining 
Teliani, Shota was an executive in the 
Pernod Ricard Group. Shota managed to 
capture more than 30% market share in 
bottled wine in Georgia, where competition 
is much greater than in the beer market. 
Shota’s leadership and sales skills will be 
the key for the success of our new 
investment. The Teliani team is very excited 
and engaged with the project, together 
with the Heineken team, to make it 
successful. 
Group strategy: capital returns and 
allocations
The simple way to look at our strategy is 
how much capital return we deliver to our 
shareholders in relation to the cash 
investment our shareholders make in the 
Group. Therefore, our aim going forward is 
not to issue new shares, rather deliver 
capital returns in order to generate a high 
return for already invested cash capital by 
our shareholders. 
Obviously sustainability of capital 
returns over long period of time is 
essential for the success of our 
strategy. As you all know, we run 
two forms of capital return: Ordinary 
Dividends paid by the Banking 
Business and Special Capital 
Returns (SCR), generated by our 
Investment Business. Let me 
discuss each form of capital  
return separately.
Ordinary Dividends:
Our Banking Business can be viewed as 
the provider of Ordinary Dividends. On the 
back of its 2015 financial performance we 
will be paying GEL 2.4 per share, which 
represents growth of 14% over 2014 
dividends and a payout ratio of 34% 
compared to 34% in 2014. Bank of  
Georgia is by far the largest and most 
valuable asset in our Group, which 
provides a high quality, stable dividend 
flow to our shareholders. Implementing the 
strategy outlined earlier in this letter should 
improve the quality of ordinary dividend 
generation capabilities of Bank of Georgia 
and make it more sustainable over a long 
period of time.
Special Capital Returns:
We updated our strategy in December 2014 
and introduced the Investment Business 
and the concept of Special Capital Returns. 
The Investment Business aims to deliver 
CSRs from divestments of our portfolio of 
companies. Our aim over a five-year period 
is to deliver CSRs of at least 50% in 
aggregate of the ordinary dividends 
delivered by the Banking Business over 
2015-2019 period. We view CSRs in three 
different forms: cash dividends, BGEO 
share buy-backs and the potential 
distribution of shares in our listed portfolio 
company. We are also aiming to buy-back 
shares for our management trust, rather 
than issue new ones – as we historically 
used to do. The aim is not to increase the 
Group’s outstanding number of shares from 
the current 39.5 million level. 
As a result of the successful IPO  
of GHG and the high cash flow 
generation of our Real Estate 
Business, we have clear visibility of 
SCR flow through 2019. The good 
news is that our existing 
investments can generate SCRs 
beyond 2019. 
However, we will need to improve the 
quality of SCR flow over the longer period 
of time. Therefore, holding a supply of  
cash to invest in opportunities and wisely 
re-allocating capital are important to 
increase the quality and certainty of SCRs 
over the longer run. That is why our plans 
regarding our cash buffer and our capital 
allocation strategy going forward are 
important. 
Cash buffer and capital allocations: 
Currently we hold c. US$ 52 million cash at 
the BGEO Group level, of which US$ 35 
million is allocated to our hydro and 
beverage businesses. Over the medium-
term, we aim to increase the unallocated 
cash buffer from the current US$ 17 million 
level to a higher one of US$ 50 million, or 
3.5% of market capitalisation of the Group. 
We believe this large cash buffer will 
be an important component to the 
successful implementation of our 
strategy and de-risking the Group in 
case of unexpected crisis. The 
unallocated cash buffer will be used 
to seek opportunities either for new 
ones or opportunities that capitalise 
on our existing companies for new 
projects or bolt-on acquisitions. The 
buffer will also enable us to buy 
back BGEO shares cheaply during 
any global capital markets or 
emerging market turmoil. As we use 
cash from the buffer, we will be 
disciplined to replenish it in a short 
period of time. 
As we will be increasing cash levels at the 
Group level, we will be running a Group-
wide treasury management. Therefore, we 
are in the process of setting up risk 
management guidelines at the Group level. 
The basic idea is to run an extremely 
conservative liquidity management policy. 
Allocated cash will be invested in Georgian 
government treasuries and short-term local 
bonds, while unallocated cash (e.g. US$ 
50 million) will be used to invest in 
short-term US treasuries or EU 
government bonds. 
Growing the intrinsic value of our  
portfolio companies will be one of my key 
performance indicators going forward.  
To this end, internally we are running 
valuation models for each of the portfolio 
companies. Valuation of the portfolio 
companies will also be used when 
deciding on BGEO share buybacks  
as well. 
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement continued Annual Report 2015  BGEO Group PLC   15
Strategic report
Overview Governance
Financial 
statements
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Additional 
information
The way we manage the Group:
We run a lean management structure at 
the Group level. We have five senior people 
working at the Group level, including me, 
and all of us have multiple functions. I split 
my time between helping the Bank 
executives in strategic projects and 
overlooking portfolio companies in 
Investment Business by helping top 
executives with strategic decisions. Levan 
Kulijanishvili, a long-time veteran at the 
Bank of Georgia, is a CFO of the Group 
and Bank of Georgia. Levan’s ability to 
constantly learn and develop, as well as 
understand detail has no boundaries. Avto 
Namicheishvili and Eka Shavgulidze help 
me to overlook our portfolio companies by 
active Board participations, monitoring 
performance of the Group companies and 
assessing new opportunities. As 
mentioned above, Avto is also heading our 
hydro business and helps the Group 
company lawyers in case they need 
advice. In addition to her Group role, Eka 
handles production of all our investor 
relation communication materials. Eka also 
handles the Group’s debt capital funding 
needs. Eka’s exceptional analytical and 
strategic thinking skills are invaluable for 
the Group. Michael Oliver is helping me 
with investor relations. Mike has 25+ years 
of experience in UK banking and served as 
Director of IR of Lloyds Banking Group. 
Mike attends the Group’s strategic 
meetings and has a deep understanding of 
Georgia and the BGEO Group, which helps 
us to communicate the story effectively. 
Mike’s understanding of our investors’ way 
of thinking is very important for us in 
setting up the strategy. He is very 
passionate with great people skills. 
Talent development:
Attracting the very best talent to our Group 
has always been a top priority. This is how 
the success of our Group has been built. 
Good judgement, flawless execution and 
excellent team spirit is part of our culture. 
Bank of Georgia serves as a great platform 
for developing talent within the Group and 
the Board’s role in this development is 
tremendous. In addition to their fiduciary 
duties, Board members act as advisors/
coaches for all of our top executives.  
We have a diverse Board with sector 
specialists and we would like to further 
enlarge it by bringing more sector 
specialists to help our heads of  
businesses to grow further. 
As our businesses grow and the market 
evolves, we are in constant need for  
top talent to deliver on our strategy. We 
have much more talent available in-house 
than 11 years ago, when I joined the  
Bank of Georgia. To this end, we would  
like to further institutionalise the talent 
development and formalise our 
organisation culture. We would like to  
use the Bank of Georgia University,  
internal and external talent pools as 
platforms to develop future leaders by 
providing leadership, training and 
coaching, and mentoring by senior 
executives and the Board members.  
We also want to attract young talent 
through our Leadership Programs to 
develop future leaders for this organisation. 
“Helping each other to succeed by 
learning and providing feedback” is 
our leadership culture articulated in 
one sentence. Indeed, we see 
constant learning and development 
of management and employees  
as key to the success of your 
organisation and we will be 
investing time and money in it.
Sasha Katsman heads the HR and 
Branding of the Bank. He has a Group-
wide responsibility to institutionalise our 
talent development programme as well as 
roll out our leadership culture throughout 
the organisation. Sasha joined the Bank in 
2010 to head the Bank’s marketing 
department. His exceptional creativity, 
execution skills and ability to develop has 
already created substantial value for our 
organisation. Sasha built our brand and 
campaign machine. We decided to 
promote Sasha to deputy CEO of Bank of 
Georgia to head the Bank’s HR efforts in 
addition to his branding responsibilities. 
Summary: 
To summarise – at the Group level we want 
to increase the unallocated cash buffer to 
US$ 50 million to seize the opportunities in 
our Investment Businesses as they arise, 
potentially buy-back BGEO stock if it is 
cheap, and de-risk the Group in case of 
unexpected crisis. To improve efficiency in 
Retail Banking, we will be focusing on 
rolling out the client-centric model and 
further digitalising our banking services. To 
improve the risk-return profile of the 
Corporate and Investment Banking we 
want to de-concentrate the loan by issuing 
local bonds and simultaneously stepping 
up the wealth management business to 
leverage Georgia becoming the service 
hub of the region. In Investment Business, 
our key goal is to institutionalise our 
businesses by developing our talented 
management teams, cutting unnecessary 
costs, and scaling up the businesses 
through bolt-on acquisitions to expedite 
scale-driven cost advantage. 
In order to succeed in the outlined strategy, 
we need three things: 
1. your continuous support, for which we 
all at BGEO Group are very grateful
2. our continuous effort to develop and 
grow talent 
3. Georgia to continue on its successful 
growth path, about which I am more 
optimistic than ever
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2016
This Strategic Report as set out on 
pages 2 to 85 was approved by the 
Board of Directors on 7 April 2016 and 
signed on its behalf by 
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
7 April 2016
See page 16 for the overview of our 
management platform.
