 06 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
The business and political mood is upbeat in 
Georgia, and my coverage of the four topics  
of this letter reflects these positive conditions.  
I will start with the economic and political 
overview, followed by a discussion on our 
Group strategy, talent development, and then 
board development. The CEO letter that follows 
will go into more specific details on each of  
our businesses. 
Economics and Politics: A few months ago, 
Georgia once again demonstrated its 
commitment to European standards and norms 
by ensuring the successful delivery of 2016’s 
democratic parliamentary elections. As 
expected, the Georgian people overwhelmingly 
supported the incumbent government. The 
elections turned out to be open, clean, and 
transparent with a very clear mandate for the 
incoming government. Most of the population 
believe that economic development is the way 
to prosperity and progress and this national 
consensus is the key to political stability.
After the elections, Georgia’s ruling Georgian 
Dream party introduced a package of legislative 
changes to support the implementation of  
the Government’s four-pillar reform programme 
(introduced in February 2016) to boost growth 
and enhance the economy’s resilience to 
external shocks. The programme includes  
new tax benefits, infrastructure schemes, 
governance reforms and the modernisation  
of the education system. Corporate tax reform 
was enacted and effective as of January 2017, 
undistributed profits are tax free, ensuring  
a significant potential boost to Georgia’s 
investments and economic growth.
The country continues to be very business 
friendly. The World Bank ranks Georgia 16th 
out 189 economies in terms of ease of doing 
business, up from 23rd position a year ago. 
With its business-friendly environment,  
stable Government, developed infrastructure, 
stable energy supply, flexible labour legislation, 
stable and profitable banking sector, strategic 
geography and a Government committed to 
addressing structural improvements in the 
economy through its four-pillar reform 
programme, Georgia is well positioned to 
become a significant regional hub economy.
In fact, we expect GDP to grow 4.3% in 2017 
compared to 2.7% in 2016. The number of 
visitors to Georgia increased at a 22.1% CAGR 
over 2007-2016 and tourism inflows stood at 
US$ 2.2 billion (15.1% of GDP) in 2016. The 
Government plans to enhance Georgia’s 
positioning as a four season tourism location 
through improving the connectivity of different 
regions with an aim to enhance their untapped 
potential. Despite the fact that many countries 
faced reduced capital inflows during the recent 
economic turbulence, FDI into Georgia has 
remained relatively secure thanks to the 
business-friendly environment as well as 
strategic infrastructure projects. In 2016 FDI 
inflow to Georgia was up 5.2% y-o-y and 
totalled US$1.6 billion (11.5% of GDP).
International relations are on the right track. 
Georgia’s accession to the visa free programme 
with the EU was a concrete benefit for all to 
see. Moreover, the Government continues to 
constructively manage its relation with Russia. 
Tourists from, and exports to, Russia have 
increased 12.0% to 1.0 million persons and 
26.6% to US$ 206.2 million last year, 
respectively, while the share in Georgia’s total 
still remains low at 16.3% for tourists and 9.8% 
for exports. On the regional front, Turkey’s 
situation has had some effect on Georgian 
economy. In contrast, recovery in other regional 
economies, particularly in Russia through its 
positive spillovers on Georgia’s major trading 
partners, is strengthening Georgia’s growth 
outlook. To summarise the situation: Georgia  
is boringly tranquil, in a neighborhood in turmoil. 
This bodes well for Georgia’s strategy to become 
a regional business hub. 
Group strategy: Last year, we informed you  
of our new two-pronged strategy. Firstly, we 
would continue to make Bank of Georgia an 
excellent institution, and secondly, we would 
buy assets in Georgia cheaply, grow them, and 
then sell them to investors at a higher price. 
We continue to view BGEO as a vehicle whose 
goal is to maximise the value of its assets for its 
shareholders. This means that we will continue 
to pursue our “buy low, sell high” asset strategy. 
GHG is a very good example of how we want 
to execute this strategy. Importantly, we don’t 
consider any of our activities “core” anymore 
– including the Bank. This is why we call 
ourselves: a Georgia Focused Investment 
Platform.
Let me give you a review of our main strategic 
priorities, while Irakli, our CEO, will talk in more 
detail about the strategic goals for each of our 
businesses in his letter. 
• The Bank has become an excellent 
institution both in terms of innovation and 
cost management. We aim to become the 
best in class when the transformation of  
our retail bank is completed. In addition,  
we believe that regional wealth management 
holds a potential that we have not yet 
exploited. We believe Galt and Taggart and 
the corporate bank have the best 
investment banking capabilities in the 
country. These capabilities should translate 
into a more dynamic and profitable 
corporate banking segment. Today, the 
banking market is a two-player market –  
a market we share with a good competitor. 
• GHG has three main strategic priorities: 
launch new services at hospitals to grow 
revenue from planned treatments, grow 
market share in outpatient clinics – a market 
which is highly fragmented, and digitalise 
healthcare system to accomplish further 
efficiency and more importantly, better 
quality of care. We are leading the 
improvement of healthcare in the country,  
by establishing new standards and 
developing new operating models and 
procedures which don’t exist in Georgia yet. 
Additionally, we have an open dialogue with 
the regulatory authorities to establish rules 
and regulations to reach significantly 
improved health care practice for the 
population of Georgia. Finally, we believe 
that our presence in hospitals, policlinics, 
pharmacies, and insurance holds enormous 
NEIL JANIN
CHAIRMAN 07 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
synergetic potential to serve our clients 
profitably, especially using digital technologies. 
GHG does not have the same market value 
as our Bank yet, but it holds much promise. 
• In the utility and energy arena, we bought,  
at a good price, a water utility with many 
improvement opportunities. This year and 
next, we will be on the lookout for more 
acquisition opportunities in the areas of 
energy and utilities. Additionally, we aim  
to develop hydro, solar and wind energy 
production. Georgia could become a clean 
energy producer, and should become an 
electricity trading hub. We intend to be a 
major player in this emergent market. Again, 
we will follow our usual investment strategy, 
and seek to realise the value created 
through an IPO in a few years’ time. 
It should be clear that we are continuing to 
pursue and expand a strategy announced  
in the past. We believe Georgia is too small  
to attract private equity investment. This is 
where we can play a significant role, providing 
capital and management talent, our two 
traditional strengths. At BGEO, our new  
slogan, Georgia Focused Investment Platform, 
reflects this mindset. 
Talent development: For many years, we have 
defined our key assets as access to capital and 
to Georgian talent. We have built the credibility 
to tap capital markets, having raised over US$ 
1.4 billion up until now. Now we must make an 
even more concerted effort to develop talent. 
We need that talent to develop the “cheap” 
assets that we are acquiring. Our CEOs at 
GHG, m
2
 and GGU, as well as many other top 
executives at the Group, came out of the 
Bank’s management pool, but we need to 
accelerate the growth of this talent pool if we 
want to continue to grow and develop staff 
properly. We need to continue to align our 
talent strategy with our business objectives.
One of the key components of our talent or 
human resource development strategy has 
been our incentive system. Its intent is to 
incentivise management to create value on  
a long term basis: c.85% of management’s 
compensation is in shares that vest over  
3-5 year period – discouraging quick earnings 
temptations. The unvested shares are normally 
“clawed-back” if a manager is fired for cause 
which includes a broad range of misconduct 
and this fully aligns shareholders’ and 
managements’ interests in the long-term.  
This system also encourages teamwork. 
Shareholders’ interests are perfectly aligned 
with those of top management. 
Incentive systems are important but don’t 
create talent. Until now, we have brought back 
talent who had trained abroad and developed 
others on the job. Today, we want our talent 
strategy to provide a supply of leader/managers 
to newly created positions. In effect, we need  
to build a pipeline of talent. We have named  
a new Chief Talent Officer, whose background 
is not personnel management, and given him 
this mission. He will ensure that BGEO further 
strengthens its culture of meritocracy, 
teamwork, and that it continues to develop  
a strong pipeline of capable managers ready  
to take the available positions. 
The essence of a meritocracy is having 
employees feeling free to share their ideas  
and being evaluated and rewarded for their 
performance. This requires dialogue which  
we will promote by the spreading of the habit  
of coaching – up and down the hierarchy.  
We would like to see constructive feedback  
and frequent developmental discussions 
between managers and their direct reports. 
This is not an idle talk. Most of our top 
managers have chosen to be coached by 
external coaches in the past years. We believe 
that a coaching culture starts at the top. Our 
top managers are urged to coach their direct 
reports, and to encourage such behaviour to 
cascade down through the organisation. 
This effort is reinforced by the development  
of a teamwork culture. This is a culture that is 
characterised within and across functions for 
the greater good of the institution. Our incentive 
system encourages that and we have started  
to implement a leadership development 
programme whose aim is to foster trust across 
horizontal managers. 
We already see the results of these efforts in  
a few of our business units, namely, Bank of 
Georgia, m
2
, GHG, and elsewhere. Our next 
step is to align our HR systems and integrate 
such habits throughout the organisation. We 
would like our leadership programmes to initially 
cover 60 of our top managers, followed by the 
next 400. We believe that no other private 
institution is as large or as professional in 
Georgia as BGEO. We must become the talent 
development engine of the country. Georgian 
institutions and corporates need managerial 
talent. If we don’t lead, then who will?
The Board. Our board is constituted of capable 
individuals who are T shaped. They all were 
chosen for the quality of their analysis and their 
judgment, the horizontal T, and for their deep 
specialty, the vertical of the T. I described their 
talent in my letter to shareholders last year. As 
our businesses diversify across the industries  
in the Georgian economy, the talent pool to 
supervise them must adapt. In the case of 
GHG, we have built a separate board with the 
requisite talent and continue to enrich it.  
We will also be adding two new board and/or 
committee members with IFRS experience 
– one to each of the BGEO and GHG boards. 
As we continue to refresh our Board, increasing 
female Board representation remains a priority. 
We were not successful in advancing that 
priority in 2016, but aim to make good on  
our promise this year and next.
Attracting talent to our boards remains key.  
We must build the capacity of the board to 
guide and supervise all our business entities.  
It is not economical at this stage to build 
full-fledged boards for the smaller ones, but  
in the fullness of time, we will need to do so.  
As Chairman, I am keenly aware that the 
Board’s responsibilities and capabilities must 
evolve to adapt and support our strategy. 
I would like to thank investors who have given 
us their confidence and money from early on.  
I speak on the boards’ and managements’ 
behalf when I assure you that we are committed 
aiming to offer you a good return on your 
investment. I would like to also underline that 
your investment continues to develop BGEO 
Group, the country of Georgia and its population 
through better healthcare, housing, utilities, 
banking services, and economic development 
in general. It is also providing strong support  
to the people employed by all our companies. 
Neil Janin
Chairman
13 April 2017
