 04 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
AT A GLANCE
RETAIL BANKING
CLIENT-CENTRIC, MULTI-BRAND STRATEGY FOR OUR C.2.1 MILLION CLIENTS.
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
WE ARE AN ESTABLISHED LEADER OF 
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SERVICES  
IN GEORGIA.
P&C INSURANCE
THE LEADING PROPERTY AND CASUALTY 
INSURANCE BUSINESS.
BNB
WELL CAPITALISED SME BANK IN BELARUS.
CORPORATE INVESTMENT BANKING
INTEGRATED SOLUTIONS FOR OUR CIB CLIENTS.
Our Bank is the leading corporate lender in the country with deep sector knowledge and local 
expertise. Our Corporate Banking business is characterised by outstanding flexibility in meeting 
our corporate clients’ needs and offers the most comprehensive range of products and services  
in the country. We are proud to accommodate more than 3,000 businesses in Georgia and play 
our part in developing various sectors of the economy such as trade, energy, industry and 
tourism, among others. Corporate Banking additionally serves as the country’s leading trade 
finance business and provides leasing services through the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Georgian Leasing Company (GLC).
We are at the forefront of capital markets development in Georgia. We aim to leverage our superior 
knowledge and capital markets capabilities in the Georgian and neighbouring markets both in terms  
of reach and the expertise that we have accumulated during the past several years through our 
corporate advisory, research and brokerage practices united under Galt & Taggart – a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group. Our brokerage 
business, serves regional and international markets, including hard-to-reach frontier economies. Our Macro and Sectoral Research currently covers 
the Georgian and Azeri economies and publishes Georgian sector research (subscription to the research on www.galtandtaggart.com). 
We are the leading retail banking player in Georgia, serving c.2.1 million customers through the 
widest network of 273 retail branches, 801 ATMs and 2,729 Express Pay (self-service) terminals,  
a sales force of more than 3,000 people, along with our diverse products and services. Our Retail 
Banking business, the prominent ingredient of our business, runs a client-centric, multi-brand 
strategy which reaches the entire spectrum of retail customers through three well-established and 
recognised brands:
1. Express – designed to magnetise emerging retail customers with minimal incremental 
operational costs through cost-efficient distance channels such as our Express Pay terminals, 
internet and mobile banking and technology-intensive Express branches;
2. Bank of Georgia – providing the long-established traditional banking services to our mass retail 
clients; and
3. Solo – targeting mass affluent customers and providing a unique blend of banking and lifestyle 
products and services.
Accommodating international clients from  
68 countries, our Wealth Management  
business provides private banking services  
to our high-net worth individual clients and 
offers investment management products 
internationally through representative offices  
in London, Budapest, Istanbul and Tel Aviv.  
As Georgia has a pay-as-you-go pension 
system, the Bank believes that its wealth 
management franchise can benefit by  
focusing on the distribution of local debt.
Our Property & Casualty business (P&C or 
Aldagi) is a leading player in the Georgian P&C 
insurance market, with a market share of 
34.9% in 2016. Covering more than 700,000 
insured customers, the P&C insurance business 
is synergistic to the to the Bank’s operations. 
Aldagi will be stepping-up cross-selling  
of its insurance products with the Bank’s  
Retail Banking and Corporate Investment 
Banking products.
JSC Belarusky Narodny Bank (BNB) offers 
individual and business banking services 
principally to SMEs and middle-income retail 
banking customers in Belarus. BNB was one  
of the first privately-owned commercial banks  
in Belarus, established in 1992. The Group has 
recently increased its ownership of BNB from 
80% to 95% while IFC now holds the remaining 
5%. BNB is a non-core business and the Group 
aims to exit from it eventually. 05 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
GEORGIA HEALTHCARE GROUP (GHG)
THE LEADING INTEGRATED PLAYER IN THE GEORGIAN HEALTHCARE ECOSYSTEM OF GEL 3.4 BILLION VALUE.
GEORGIA GLOBAL UTILITIES (GGU)
MAJOR UTILITY AND ENERGY COMPANY, WITH CLEAR GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES AND ROOM TO IMPROVE EFFICIENCY.
m
2
 REAL ESTATE (m
2
)
A FAST-GROWING, LEADING REAL ESTATE DEVELOPER AND ASSET MANAGER IN GEORGIA.
Our real estate business, the Group’s wholly-owned subsidiary, m
2
 Real Estate, develops and sells 
residential and commercial properties in Georgia. m
2
 also manages yielding real estate asset portfolio, 
which it accumulated through its own developments as well as opportunistic investments in high 
street real estate. For the past couple of years m
2
 has established itself as one of the most 
recognisable and trustworthy residential housing brands in the country. m
2
 Real Estate outsources the 
construction and architecture works while focusing on project management and sales. m
2
 Real Estate 
completed sales of 2,047 apartments worth US$ 172.9 million since 2011 with 97.2% of apartments 
sold in six successfully completed projects and 35.1% pre-sales in four ongoing projects. The number 
of apartments financed with BOG’s mortgages in all m
2
 Real Estate projects as of 31 December 2016 
totalled 946, with an aggregate amount of GEL 110.7 million. 
m
2
 Real Estate has the exclusive right to develop Wyndham Ramada Anchor hotels in Georgia. 
Construction of one hotel has begun and work on two more is expected to start during 2017.
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC is the UK incorporated holding company of the largest healthcare 
services provider in the fast-growing, predominantly privately-owned, Georgian health market. 
GHG offers by far the most comprehensive range of inpatient and outpatient services in Georgia. 
GHG targets the mass market segment through its vertically integrated network of 35 hospitals 
and ten ambulatory clusters, including 13 district ambulatory clinics and 28 express ambulatory 
clinics as at 31 December 2016. GHG is the single largest market participant, accounting for 
23.4% of total hospital bed capacity in the country as at 31 December 2016.
GHG is the largest pharmaceuticals retailer and wholesaler in Georgia, with approximately 29%* 
market share by revenue in 2016. GHG has approximately two million client interactions per 
month, with 0.5 million loyalty card members.
GHG is also the largest provider of medical insurance in Georgia, with a 35.1% market share 
based on net insurance premiums earned and has approximately 211,000 insurance customers 
as at 31 December 2016.
GGU has two main business lines – water utility and electric power generation. In its water utility 
business, GGU is a natural monopoly that supplies water and provides a wastewater service to 
1.4 million people (approximately one-third of Georgia’s population) in three cities: Tbilisi, Mtskheta 
and Rustavi. In the electric power business, GGU owns and operates four hydropower generation 
facilities with a total capacity of 149MW. Generated power is primarily used by GGU’s water 
business, with the excess amount of generated capacity sold to third parties. GGU has a pipeline 
of developments in hydro power plants and wind and solar energy production. When BGEO 
acquired its initial stake in GGU in 2014, the Group put in place a strong management team.  
The team has been further strengthened since the acquisition of full control in 2016. 
TELIANI VALLEY
CREATING A LEADING BEVERAGES PRODUCER AND DISTRIBUTOR IN CAUCASUS.
Teliani is a leading Georgian wine producer and beverage distributor with a wide distribution 
platform of a variety of imported beverages as well as own produced wine. Teliani sells over three 
million bottles of wine annually, with about 60% of sales coming from exports. Building on its 
existing franchise of distribution, Teliani is currently expanding into a new business line of beer  
and soft beverage production, with a ten-year exclusivity from Heineken to sell in three countries: 
Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan – a total population of 17 million people. The construction of  
the beer production facility has been completed during 2016 and Teliani aims to start brewing  
in the first half of 2017. With a strong management team and a proven track record, Teliani aims  
to become a leading beverages producer and distributor in the South Caucasus.
* Including ABC’s market share acquired by GHG in January 2017.
