 08 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
Georgia continued to achieve consistent 
improvements in its macroeconomic 
performance and improved levels of business 
confidence, and the Group delivered another 
year of strong business performance with over 
30% basic earnings per share growth, and 
improved returns in both the banking business 
and the investment businesses. With the 
economy seemingly on the rebound in 2017  
as measured by levels of business confidence, 
a number of recent strategic initiatives and 
acquisitions are expected to continue to deliver 
excellent performance in 2017 and beyond.  
In this annual letter, I will therefore update you 
on our medium-term strategic goals. 
The Group will continue to focus on 
capturing growth opportunities in the rapidly 
growing Georgian economy. Our ‘4x20’ 
strategy will continue to be targeted over the 
medium-term to deliver:
• A return on average equity in the Banking 
Business of at least 20%
• Retail Banking customer lending growth  
of at least 20% per annum 
• A minimum targeted Internal Rate of Return 
of 20% on investments in the Group’s 
investment businesses, and 
• A maximum 20% profit contribution,  
of the Group’s profits, from our investment 
businesses
The Group will continue to aim to maintain  
a regular dividend payout ratio from the 
Banking Business profits in the 25%-40% 
range. Since the introduction of dividends in 
2010, the Group has managed to grow its 
annual dividend per share by 51.6% CAGR.  
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting the Board 
intends to recommend an annual regular 
dividend for 2016 of GEL 2.6 per share payable 
in British Pounds Sterling at the prevailing rate. 
This is within the range of our regular dividend 
payout ratio target of 25-40% paid from the 
Banking Business profits, and represents an 
8.3% increase over the 2015 dividend. 
2016 marked the first ever issuance of 
Eurobonds at the holding company level, 
through which we raised US$ 350 million, with 
a coupon of 6.00%, due 2023. Overall, the 
Group’s capital and funding position continues 
to be very strong, with capital being held both 
in the regulated banking business and at the 
holding company level. Within the bank, the 
NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier 1 Capital Adequacy ratio 
was 10.1%
1
, comfortably ahead of the Bank’s 
minimum capital requirement. In addition, as of 
31 March 2017, GEL 335.2 million liquid assets 
were held at the Group level. 
As a result of the Group’s strong capital 
position, excess levels of liquidity and high level 
of internal capital generation, in November 
2016 the Board approved a $50 million share 
buyback and cancellation programme, to be 
completed over a two year period, in addition 
to the regular annual dividend to be paid to 
shareholders. Over the last few months, the 
Group Employee Benefits Trust has also 
purchased shares in the market totalling 
approximately US$ 20 million.
A recent development in the Georgian 
Government’s tax policy is now effective, and 
applies the profit tax (currently set at 15%) only 
to distributed profits. Undistributed profits will 
no longer be subject to the profits tax. As a 
result, approximately GEL 500-600 million 
equity will be left to profit-generating corporates 
that are expected to profitably reinvest this 
capital. This tax policy amendment took effect 
for most companies on 1 January 2017, and for 
certain financial companies (including banks 
and insurance companies) it is expected to take 
effect from 1 January 2019. This will reduce the 
effective tax rate of the Group’s non-banking 
businesses in 2017, and the entire Group in 
2019. In addition, the Bank expects to benefit 
from the general improved creditworthiness of 
its entire corporate portfolio. The impact of 
these changes has led to a number of deferred 
tax adjustments that increased profits in 2016 
by GEL 63.8 million.
Despite some regional headwinds, the 
Georgian economy remained resilient during 
2016, with estimated GDP growth of 2.7%  
for the year. Foreign Direct Investments were 
solid at 11.5% of GDP and tourist numbers –  
a significant driver of US Dollar inflows for the 
country – continued to rise throughout the year. 
Inflation remained well controlled at 1.8% at the 
end of 2016. 
Turning to the business, let me talk about our 
two business lines – the Banking Business and 
the Investment Businesses – separately:
BANKING BUSINESS 
The Bank delivered another very strong year 
in 2016, characterised by the expected strong 
growth in the retail bank, and a repositioning  
of the corporate bank to further reduce 
concentration risk. Customer lending increased 
by 24.5% during the year, with 39.5% growth  
in the retail bank and 8.3% growth in the 
corporate investment bank. The Return on 
Average Equity in the banking business 
increased from 21.7% in 2015, to 22.1%  
in 2016.
Over the next few years, Bank of Georgia 
aims to shift the mix of its customer lending 
to become 65% retail and 35% corporate 
(currently 61% retail; 39% corporate) with 
the product per client ratio in the mass  
retail banking targeted to increase to  
3.0 products, from a current 1.7 products.
We are now running a client-centric, 
multi-brand strategy in our Retail Bank. Over 
the past decade, Retail Banking has delivered  
a stellar performance by reaching c.2.1 million 
clients, delivering exceptional loan book growth 
and achieving its ROAE targets. While we were 
targeting these milestones, the Bank was 
product-centric with an active client acquisition 
1 Capital adequacy ratios include GEL 99.5mln distributed as dividend from the Bank to the holding level on 29 December 2016. These funds are earmarked for regular dividends  
to be paid from BGEO Group in respect of the 2016 financial year and will be payable in 2017, subject to shareholder approval. Including this payment, NBG (Basel 2/3) Tier I  
and Total CAR is 9.1% and 14.4%, respectively.
IRAKLI GILAURI
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 09 Annual Report 2016 BGEO Group PLC
Strategic report
Overview
Strategic report
Strategy
Strategic report
Performance
Governance Financial
statements
Additional
information
approach. Having over two million clients now, 
this phase is less prevalent and we target 
stronger growth through increasing the product 
to client ratio by introducing our client centric 
model while running a multi-brand strategy for 
different segments of population. 
Our Express brand caters to the emerging retail 
segment and offers predominantly transactional 
banking services to clients through small-format, 
Express branches, ATMs and Express Pay 
Terminals. In this segment, the Bank will aim  
to double the number of transactions over the 
next 2-3 years. 
Our Solo brand caters to the mass affluent 
segment and offers exclusive products and the 
finest lounge-style environment at our newly 
designed Solo lounges, together with new 
lifestyle opportunities, such as exclusive events 
and handpicked lifestyle products. Solo already 
has very encouraging early signs: we have 
invested only US$ 11.5 million in this new 
concept since its launch in April 2015 and we 
have almost doubled the annual net profit to 
GEL 25.3 million. In this segment, the Bank will 
aim to increase the number of Solo clients to 
40,000 (19,267 as at 31 December 2016).
Our Bank of Georgia brand caters to the 
mass retail segment. This is our flagship brand 
and our most significant profit contributor. We 
are currently transforming our service delivery  
to mass retail clients from a product-centric  
to a customer-centric one. The client centric 
approach has also had very encouraging early 
signs and in 24 pilot branches, sales have 
increased threefold. Going forward, expanding 
express branches will be very important to 
move out transaction focused clients from 
flagship branches and allow our universal 
bankers to cross-sell and increase the product 
to client ratio. We will be launching the first fully 
transformed branch in April 2017.
The Bank will continue to reduce concentration 
risk in the corporate lending portfolio, with the 
support of the Investment Management 
business. The target is for the top ten 
borrowers to represent less than 10% of the 
total loan portfolio (currently 11.8%). Georgia  
is becoming the service hub of the region and 
Bank of Georgia is in a great position to capture 
wealth management clients from throughout 
the region. In 2016, we have attracted more 
than 150 clients from 68 countries and we plan 
to step up these efforts. The Bank’s aim is to 
develop a significant regional private banking 
franchise to reach AUM of GEL 2.5 billion 
(currently GEL 1.6 billion). In this regard, we 
leverage superior knowledge and capital 
markets capabilities in the Georgian and 
neighbouring markets both in terms of reach  
and the expertise that we have accumulated 
during the past several years through our 
corporate advisory, research and brokerage 
practices united under Galt & Taggart – a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, which is 
at the forefront of capital markets development 
in the county. 
At the end of 2016, we announced a number  
of appointments that further strengthened the 
management team of the Bank. 
We appointed Kaha Kiknavelidze as CEO  
of the Bank. Kaha has been on the BGEO 
board for 8 years and knows the Group and 
management very well. At the same time he 
brings new perspectives to the executive team 
who have worked together for a very long time 
– the mix of old/new blood is important to bring 
new topics for discussion to the table. Kaha 
has over 15 years of experience in financial 
services in a number of roles at UBS and Troika 
Dialog. Prior to his current role, he was the 
founder and Managing Partner of Rioni Capital 
Partners LLP , a London-based investment 
management company.
We also have two new members in the 
executive management team of the Bank. 
David Tsiklauri was appointed to the position  
of Deputy CEO at the Bank, and leads the 
Bank’s Corporate Investment Banking 
Department. David has extensive experience  
in banking as well as the corporate segment  
in Georgia, having worked as the Deputy CEO 
in charge of Corporate Banking at TBC Bank 
and as Vice President of the Capital Markets 
and Treasury Solutions team at Deutsche Bank. 
Ramaz Kukuladze was appointed Deputy  
CEO at the Bank, and leads the Bank’s SME 
and Solo businesses. Ramaz has extensive 
experience in the financial services industry and 
wide experience with and a deep knowledge of 
the segments that he is leading. Prior to joining 
the Bank, Ramaz worked at Bank Republic 
Société Générale where he led the bank’s 
corporate and retail business as Deputy CEO. 
I am confident that the strengthened executive 
team of the Bank will deliver on the opportunity 
to build on the Bank’s recent strong growth by 
further developing its presence and profitability 
in both the retail and corporate banking sectors 
in Georgia.
INVESTMENT BUSINESS 
The Group’s Investment Businesses continued 
to deliver very strong earnings performances in 
2016, with strong organic growth supported by 
the impact of recent acquisitions – specifically 
(1) the addition to our healthcare business 
Georgia Healthcare Group (GHG) of the GPC 
pharmacy business following its acquisition 
during the second quarter, and (2) the second 
half consolidation of our utility and energy 
business Georgia Global Utilities, GGU, 
following the acquisition of the remaining 75% 
equity stake in GGU for a cash consideration  
of $70 million in July 2016. EBITDA from the 
investment businesses increased by 71.1%  
to GEL 132.6 million in 2016.
In the healthcare business, Georgia 
Healthcare Group, GHG, we are present in 
whole healthcare ecosystem, which in size is 
GEL 3.4bln, with a best in class management 
team and access to capital. We see three key 
opportunities in healthcare business: Firstly, 
continue the introduction of new services in  
our hospitals, which should further strengthen 
our leading market position. Secondly, expand 
in the outpatient segment where the market  
is highly fragmented. We see the same 
opportunity now in the fragmented outpatient 
sector that we saw in the hospital business 
number of years ago. Lastly, we see an 
opportunity in digitilisation of healthcare 
services by creating electronic patient records 
and advising our patients in maintaining  
a healthy lifestyle. Our scale is important to  
deliver on our targets of delivering good quality 
healthcare at affordable prices. 
In m
2
 Real Estate we are targeting an internal 
rate of return of c.40%+, whilst delivering a 
capital return to the Group of US$ 20-25 million 
in 2019/20. As we have previously declared, we 
are no longer buying land plots as our aim is to 
develop third party land. In essence our aim is 
to evolve m
2
 from a real estate developer into  
a real estate asset manager. 
In the beverage business, Teliani, we  
are launching beer production and will be 
opportunistically expanding the beverage 
business in order to penetrate the retail network 
by offering a diversified product base, as well  
as enlarging the business to achieve economies 
of scale and cost advantage. Our primary exit 
strategy is expected to be a trade sale.
In the utility and energy business, GGU, we 
aim to achieve EBITDA of more than GEL 80 
million in 2018, whilst establishing a renewable 
energy platform, targeting 200MW operating, 
57MW ready-to-build,150MW in the pipeline for 
the hydro power plants; and 20-20MW 
ready-to-build wind farms and solar photo-
voltaic stations. All of this by 2019 with a 
targeted IRR in excess of 20%. GGU has a 
significant opportunity to increase its 
operational cash flow over the next few years 
from a combination of improving cash collection 
rates, increasing energy efficiency and reducing 
water loss rates, and by the development of 
renewable energy resources. We are aiming to 
prepare the combined utility and renewable 
energy business for an IPO in approximately 
2-3 years.
As we start to prepare GGU for an IPO, we 
have further strengthened the GGU team and 
appointed Archil Gachechiladze as the CEO of 
GGU. Having been with the Group for almost 8 
years in various roles, Archil has an outstanding 
execution track record with the Bank and, just 
as importantly, he is very passionate about  
the business of GGU having initiated our 
investment in the utility and energy business. 
We are also consolidating the Group’s utilities 
and energy businesses under GGU, the two 
investments that the Group made separately.
Last but not least, I would like to reiterate our 
commitment to the highest level of corporate 
governance which is a foundation for accessing 
management and capital. A key focus for me 
– and my board – is to grow and develop talent. 
Coaching and a feedback culture has become 
part of BGEO. Helping each other to succeed  
is the core principle of our management team. 
We understand very clearly that we are in the 
same boat as our shareholders and our 
mandate is very clear: to create sustainable 
shareholder value.
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017
This Strategic Report as set out on pages 
2 to 73 was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed on 
its behalf by
Irakli Gilauri
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017
