 04
Accsys Technologies PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements year ended 31 March 2013
intrO ductiO n
I am very pleased to report that Accsys 
has enjoyed a productive financial year, 
delivering notable revenue increases 
and making strong progress towards 
licensing the Company’s proprietary 
technologies. These achievements, 
combined with the positive start the 
Company has made to the new financial 
year, further support my confidence 
that the group is on the right path 
towards achieving its long term 
objective of delivering sustainable 
profitability.
Demand for Accoya® has continued to 
grow with a 45% increase in sales to 
Accoya® customers recorded in the year 
to March 201 3 to €16.4m (201 2: €1 1.3m). 
Encouragingly, this growth was 
widespread, with 12 out of 14 of our top 
geographies recording an increase. Total 
Group revenue increased by 25% to 
€18.8m for the year (2012: €15.0m).  
This trend has continued in the start of 
the new financial year and we are very 
pleased by our sales growth for the first 
quarter of the year. 
The increased sales volume has helped 
generate a significant improvement in 
our profitability with our gross profit 
margin increasing from almost break-
even to 18%. We expect this trend  
to continue due to a combination  
of increasing sales volumes, price 
increases implemented since the start 
of the current financial year and the 
economies of scale, given certain 
production costs are fixed or partially 
fixed, which we expect to achieve from 
our manufacturing plant in Arnhem.  
As a result, we continue to expect the 
Arnhem plant to reach 50% of its 
capacity within the current financial 
year, which in turn will generate an 
EBITDA positive level for the plant, 
helping to indicate the potential returns 
prospective licensees may be able to 
generate, in addition to seeding target 
markets.
Our balance sheet remains strong with  
a cash balance of €20.5m at the end  
of March 2013. This has been helped  
by the completion of the sale and 
leaseback of the second part of our land 
in Arnhem and the issue of shares to 
INEOS in October 2012 at the same  
time as we entered a joint venture  
with them, raising €1.7m and €4m 
respectively. 
chairman’s statement
Our cash out-flow from operating 
activities (before changes to working 
capital) decreased by 24% to €7.6m 
(2012: €10.0m). We expect this cash-out 
flow to decrease in the next year, 
reflecting improved profitability and a 
continued focus on minimising our costs. 
Our longer term objective of licensing 
our technologies has also progressed. 
We continue to work with Solvay 
(previously called Solvay-Rhodia) 
towards completing the full Process 
Design Package and continue to expect 
the licence agreement to become 
unconditional following the approval of 
Solvay’s board of Directors later by the 
end of the year. The collaboration with 
Solvay has also continued in many other 
respects including developing the 
market with the launch of a retail 
decking trial being carried out in five 
retail chains in France and Germany. 
Tricoya Technologies Limited (‘TTL’),  
our joint venture with INEOS formed in 
October 2012 for the exploitation and 
development of Accsys’ intellectual 
property surrounding Tricoya® wood 
elements, has made a positive start  
and is working towards agreeing a full 
unconditional licence agreement with 
Medite for the manufacture of Tricoya® 
following the signing of a Heads of 
Terms in December 2012.
Accsys and TTL continue to develop a 
number of new and existing potential 
Accoya® and Tricoya® licence 
opportunities respectively, with 
counterparties whose combined existing 
total wood product manufacturing  
or processing capacity is in excess of  
10 million m
3
 per annum. While these 
discussions remain ongoing, the complex 
nature and investment required by a 
licensee, means that the timing and 
certainty of their completion remains 
difficult to predict.
Accoya® and Tricoya® continue to 
receive industry recognition and have 
won a number of high profile awards. 
For example Medite Tricoya won 
Product of the Year at the Sustain 
Magazine Awards for Sustainability; 
both Accoya® and Tricoya® were named 
the Best Wood Innovation in Holland’s 
Houtwereld 2012, Top Suppliers Awards 
as well as jointly winning the Supreme 
Award for Innovation at the UK’s Timber 
Expo in 2012. 
Given the global construction industry’s 
focus on delivering projects in an 
increasingly sustainable manner, hence 
reducing the environmental impact of 
construction projects throughout their 
lifetime, we have continued to promote 
the positive environmental and 
sustainable attributes of our products 
as we believe this has an important role 
to play in driving further sales growth 
and market penetration. Having recently 
been admitted as a founding member of 
the Social Stock Exchange, we have also 
confirmed that windows made from 
Accoya® have been found to be carbon 
negative over their lifetime and that 
Accoya®’s carbon footprint significantly 
outperforms most other building 
materials. 
In March we announced the retirement 
and resignation from the Board of 
Directors of Lord Sanderson of Bowden. 
Lord Sanderson, who is 80, had served 
on the Board since 2007 and had been a 
tremendous asset for the Company. His 
support and commitment has been of 
great value and he will be much missed. 
We wish him the very best in his 
well-earned retirement from Accsys.
The start to the new financial year has 
added further support to my confidence 
in our future. Our ongoing Accoya® sales 
growth, which is helping further seed 
markets, together with the continuing 
progress being made by all parts of the 
Accsys Group means that we are now in 
a strong position to achieve our 
objective of making the Group profitable 
and successfully licensing our 
technologies globally.
Gordon campbell
n on executive chairman
24 June 2012 05
accsys technologies plc Annual Report & Financial Statements year ended 31 March 2013
STUNNING CURVED ACCOYA® WOOD 
CLADDING AND SHADING IN THE 
NETHERLANDS
 
The psychiatric institution GGZ-Nijmegen 
consisted of several buildings located  
in a rural setting on the edge of the 
Stuwwalbos, the Netherlands. The 
buildings dating back to the early sixties, 
no longer met the current quality 
standards and therefore following a 
feasibility study the buildings had to be 
demolished and the new clinics had to be 
built in the same location. The clinic was 
designed by BogermanDill Architects 
from Amsterdam in cooperation with SBH 
Architects + Consultants from Arnhem.
Several wood species were considered 
for this new building but Accoya wood 
was chosen because it could form part  
of the highly engineered shaped and 
curved design but remaining stable and 
durable afterwards.
The 4.4 kilometre and 1.4 kilometre slats 
were curved after the specially shaped 
blades were steamed and bent by De 
Jong’s Wood products from Drogeham, 
the Netherlands.
Accoya wood met the performance and 
design requirements of the client.
