 Financial  Statements Governance Business Overview
Asterand plc Annual Report and  Financial Statements 2007
4
2004, May
Asterand is awarded a multimillion dollar contract 
to supply a major research university with a bank 
of cancer samples and clinical data.
2006, January
Asterand plc, a public company with a full listing on 
the London Stock Exchange, is formed through a 
reverse takeover of Pharmagene by Asterand.
2005 
Pharmagene repositions business to focus solely on 
drug discovery research services.
Chief Executive’s Business Overview
Dear Shareholders,
I felt honoured to be asked to join the  Group as CEO in March 2007. Asterand is a small company – only 90 people – but we are right at the centre of 
some m ajor changes affecting global pharmaceutical companies. These pharmaceutical companies are Asterand’s customers, and Asterand has the 
potential to make a real difference in their quest to get new drugs into the clinic more quickly and more safely . This will make a difference in the lives 
of ordinary people. In the process, we aim to build a substantive, successful and growing company, and realise value for our shareholders.
The use of human tissue in the discovery and development of new drugs is becoming more established and growing rapidly . There are many drivers 
of this growth . For example, it is becoming increasingly accepted that the use of animals in pre-clinical development provides only a partial guide to 
likely responses in humans. In addition there are obvious advantages, not least safety, of evaluating responses in human tissue before evaluating 
responses in humans themselves.
In the US, the National Cancer Institute has  concluded the lack of access to appropriately collected and annotated human tissue as one of the major 
barriers to realising the promise of developing targeted cancer diagnostics, preventives, and therapies.
In the past, pharmaceutical companies have sourced their required human tissue themselves, and carried out their own analyses. However, 
 requirements are becoming more speciﬁc and exact, such that excellence now requires:
■ A wide network of donor sites
■ An extensive biobank 
■ Ethical and consent compliance 
■ Tightly controlled QC procedures 
■ Scientists versed in the use of human tissue
■ Comprehensive clinical information
 Asterand is focused on the use of human tissue to support pharmaceutical companies in the discovery and development of new drugs. We are 
one of the few commercial companies focused on this need. Through our focus we have created expertise and we believe that we offer signiﬁcant 
advantages to our customers – for example, we regularly source from around 40 active donor sites, and are thus able to access tissues from a wide 
variety of ethnic backgrounds and disease types/stages with unrivalled turnaround. Financial Statements Governance Business Overview
Asterand plc Annual Report and  Financial Statements 2007
5
Asterand’s mission is to improve the effectiveness of pharmaceutical companies’ drug discovery and development programs and become the 
predominan t human tissue provider. Our solutions support activities across the entire drug discovery and development process. Whether a 
company requires well characteri sed and ethically consented specimens, assistance from expert scientists in the form of human tissue based 
research services, or consultation regarding the effective creation and maintenance of their biorepositories, Asterand has a solution to ﬁt each 
company’s needs.
In June 2007, as a result of a strategic review, the Board announced the future direction of the  Group in order to secure Asterand’s leading 
position in our market and to become proﬁtable as quickly as possible. We continue to make progress against that strategy, and during the second 
half of 2007:
■    We completed the restructure of the Group’s UK operations. As a result of these changes, we will realise annualised savings of approximately 
£700,000 without impacting the level of service we provide to our key customers.
■  We  have signiﬁcantly strengthened our management and personnel chieﬂy in the areas of sales and marketing. Our international sales team 
is now fully staffed with coverage for North America, Europe and Japan. We are already beginning to realise an impact from their efforts – we 
entered 2008 with a pipeline  well over £1 million in service projects.
■  We  have realised beneﬁts from enhanced cross-selling between tissue supply and research services. As a result, during the second half of 
2007 we have secured tissue supply contracts from service customers as well as service projects from clients who had previously purchased 
only biospecimens. We believe a key component of our success in the marketplace will be tied to our capability to provide a broad range of 
solutions to meet clients’ needs.
■  We  have improved our tissue supply operations to position the company for continued growth. During the summer of 2007, the company began 
a l ean six sigma review. The standardisation of our key processes to date has resulted in a  60% reduction in lab processing time. We expect to 
realise continued beneﬁts from this review.
■  We continue to make efforts to form close relationships with key customers, governed by Master Service Agreements. For example we signed 
an extension of our agreement with Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS) through which BMS gains an additional three years  access to Asterand’s 
PhaseZERO
®
 research services and XpressBANK™ Tissue repository .
Our prominent position as a leading supplier of human tissue based solutions was recently afﬁrmed by the award of a one year, $2.9 million contract 
with the US Department of Defense (DoD) to review and assess its specimen repository and provide recommendations on the optimal research 
use of the bank. The DoD repository is the largest tissue bank in the world and is currently overseen and managed by the Armed Forces Institute of 
Pathology . The 75 million samples span the period from 1917 to the present and represent some of the rarest diseases known to mankind. Our plans 
are to use the AFIP as our foundation client in a new service   offering directed towards biorepository consulting.
As our customers move to outsource and concentrate on their own core capabilities, our goal is to become their partner of choice in human tissue. 
We believe the progress we’ve achieved in 2007 has set the stage for signiﬁcant growth in 2008. 
Martyn Coombs
CEO, Asterand plc
2007, March
Martyn Coombs appointed as CEO.
2007
Asterand is awarded a $2.9 million contract by 
the US Department of Defense to review and 
evaluate the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology 
biomaterial bank.
2007, May
Asterand announces that Bristol Myers Squibb 
signs a further deal to access Asterand ‘s human 
tissue products (XpressBANK™) and services 
(PhaseZERO
®
 )
"We are a small company, but we have big 
aspirations. We seek to become the clear market  
leader in our niche, globally."
--Martyn Coombs
  Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
