 02 biofusion plc annual report and accounts 2007
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
‘ ‘
We own the rights to an 
amazing depth and quality 
of research and we aim to 
turn that into real value for 
our shareholders.
Professor Phillip Wright and his team at Biohydrogen have metabolically engineered 
a strain of E. coli to include a copy of a cyanobacterial derived bi-directional 
hydrogenase enzyme that leads to the generation of additional hydrogen.
This novel and patented platform technology has demonstrated exceptional 
hydrogen production rates.  Although at an early stage, the results suggest 
that the hydrogen is being produced not just from the dark fermentation of the 
glucose to hydrogen but that the process is also causing a catalytic reaction 
that is splitting the water to produce extra hydrogen. 
The technology platform required to develop this bio-hydrogen production 
method is similar to the technology used by many biotech companies that 
produce enzymes for drug synthesis (antibiotics, anti cancer, etc.), consumer 
goods (detergents, brewed beverages, food products, plastics, etc.), and 
enhanced animal feed and alternative energy sources such as bio-ethanol. 
As a result the commercialisation of this enzyme-based product should be 
able to follow a clear and well-deﬁned path with well understood procedures.
There is signiﬁcant interest in all forms of renewable ‘clean’ energy technologies 
to combat global warming, in response to the depletion of and increasing price 
of fossil fuels and to address energy security problems. Biohydrogen believes 
its unique method of production has the potential to be at the forefront of 
new low carbon fuel technology developments and aims to develop a unique 
microbiological method of producing hydrogen for the industrial hydrogen 
market and any future hydrogen energy related market.
CASE STUDY: BIOHYDROGEN
DOUG LIVERSIDGE CBE
_0_BIF_ar07_FRONT.indd   2 26/10/2007   13:55:24 03 biofusion plc annual report and accounts 2007
I am delighted to announce Biofusion’s results 
for the year ended 31 July 2007, which has been 
a year of signiﬁcant progress and expansion.
KEY EVENTS
  Trebled the research pipeline, for which we own 
exclusive rights, to £114m (31 July 2006: £37m) 
by signing an exclusive ten year pipeline 
agreement with Cardiff University (Cardiff). 
Cardiff is one of the UK’s leading research 
intensive universities, ranked seventh in the 
most recent RAE (Research Assessment 
Exercise) based rankings;
  Expanded the business to include world class 
research in energy, environment, engineering 
and IT;
  Raised £7.8m to invest in Cardiff IP , 
increasing total cash funds to £10.6m 
(31 July 2006: £5.9m);
  Increased the number of companies 
in our portfolio to 24 (31 July 2006: 12);
  Created four new companies (31 July 2006: two): 
Biohydrogen, Absynth Biologics, Medella 
Therapeutics, Biofusion Licensing;
  Exited our 9% shareholding in Plasso 
T echnologies;
  Strengthened Asterion’s management team 
with a blue chip Chairman, Chief Executive 
Ofﬁcer and Non-executive Director; and
  Invested or committed to invest up to £3.3m 
in 14 portfolio companies to support their 
continued development.
In this our last year under UK GAAP , before 
we transfer to International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS), we report turnover of £0.4m 
(2006: £0.3m), and losses of £2.9m (2006: loss 
of £1.9m), which were broadly in line with budgets. 
Under UK GAAP no allowance is made for the 
increase in the value of our portfolio company 
investments, which are currently held at cost less 
impairment in value. Going forward, increases 
in the fair value of our portfolio companies will be 
shown in the proﬁt and loss account, consistent 
with the approach taken by our competitors.
Post year end we announced:
  In September 2007 that we had signed a 
co-investment Memorandum of Understanding 
(MoU) with Finance Wales which provides priority 
access to Finance Wales’ substantial 
investment funds;
  In October 2007 that we had sold our 50% 
stakes in each of Cardiff Protides and Cardiff 
Biologicals to Morvus T echnology Ltd (Morvus) 
in return for a 20% shareholding in Morvus; and
  In October 2007, we signed an exclusive 
licence agreement with an undisclosed leading 
US reproductive testing laboratory to sell the 
Plan Ahead test in the USA and Canada.
CARDIFF UNIVERSITY
Our partnership with Cardiff is a signiﬁcant 
milestone that has enabled us to build on 
our successful partnership with the University 
of Shefﬁeld and secure access to a second 
high quality Intellectual Property (IP) pipeline, 
as well as enabling us to expand our portfolio 
into non-life science sectors such as engineering, 
energy, environment and computing.
Cardiff is the seventh ranked research 
intensive university in the UK and recently 
announced its second Nobel Prize winner, 
Professor Sir Martin Evans who won the 
Nobel Prize for Medicine in October 2007.
In conjunction with the Cardiff agreement and 
the £7.8m placing, Biofusion created a dedicated 
investment fund of £8.2m, in a new wholly owned 
subsidiary Fusion Cardiff Limited, exclusively for 
investing in Cardiff portfolio companies.
We now have exclusive IP pipeline agreements 
with two of the UK’s top ten research intensive 
universities and are confident that our model 
will continue to be attractive to high quality 
research intensive universities both in the 
UK and overseas.
INVESTMENTS DURING THE PERIOD
During the year we invested, or approved 
facilities for investments, of £3.3m, which has 
been used to fund the creation of four new 
companies and the continued development 
of 12 portfolio companies.
We continue to believe that our portfolio has 
a balanced mix of short, medium and long term 
investments and that we remain committed 
to, and focused on, our core strategy, which 
is to achieve high value exits from our portfolio 
of companies, at the appropriate time, to realise 
their value to our shareholders.
FINANCE WALES MOU
Post year end on 21 September 2007 we 
signed a MoU with Finance Wales, the provider 
of commercial funding to Wales-based businesses, 
detailing a co-investment strategy for investing 
in opportunities arising from Biofusion’s exclusive 
IP pipeline agreement with Cardiff University. 
Finance Wales already manages funds of more 
than £100m and has invested £75m in Wales.
EXITS
During the year as part of the sale of Plasso 
Technology (UK) Limited (Plasso) to Becton 
Dickinson and Company, Biofusion disposed 
of its 9% shareholding in Plasso. Financial terms 
of the deal were not disclosed.
Post year end, on 10 October 2007, we announced 
that we had sold our equity shareholdings 
in Cardiff Protides and Cardiff Biologicals 
to Morvus a privately owned pharmaceutical 
company specialising in the discovery and 
development of novel oncology therapies.
Morvus has raised over £3.4m in equity 
finance to date and its most recent funding, 
largely concluded in July 2007, valued Morvus at 
approximately £12m, based on a price of 30p per 
share. As a result of the sale Biofusion now owns 
13,698,630 shares in Morvus, giving it a 20% 
shareholding in the enlarged Morvus group.
Morvus’ expertise in oncology based pharmaceutical 
development convinced us that the new combined 
company could be a world leader in the provision 
of specialist oncology drugs and provided the 
best opportunity for bringing Cardiff Protides’ and 
Cardiff Biologicals’ lead compounds to market.
DIRECTORATE CHANGE
In January 2007 Mr Mike Davies, who is 
Director of Physical and Financial Resources 
for Cardiff University, became a Non-executive 
Director of the Board. We welcome him onto 
the Board of Biofusion.
ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL 
REPORTING STANDARDS (IFRS)
From 1 August 2007 Biofusion will adopt 
International Financial Reporting Standards 
(IFRS). This will have a significant impact 
on the reporting of the company’s financial 
performance, as changes in the carrying value 
of our portfolio company investments will be 
recognised in the proﬁt and loss account.
At present Biofusion carries all these investments 
at cost. The Directors believe this does not reﬂect 
the true value of the portfolio.
The adoption of IFRS will bring the company’s 
reporting in line with its major competitors.
OUTLOOK
In ﬁelds as varied as drug discovery, alternative 
energy and engineering, we now own the rights 
to a truly signiﬁcant depth and quality of research 
from two of the UK’s leading universities. This has 
enabled us to create a growing portfolio of 
companies based on some of the world’s most 
advanced and exciting science. Our focus 
continues to be to expand this portfolio, maximise 
the value of these companies and then exit these 
companies, at the appropriate time, either through 
trade sale or IPO.
We look forward with considerable optimism 
to the next ﬁnancial year. 
DOUG LIVERSIDGE CBE
CHAIRMAN
15 October 2007
_0_BIF_ar07_FRONT.indd   3 26/10/2007   13:55:24
