 Financial Statements Governance Business Overview
Asterand plc Annual Report and  Financial Statements 2007
3
2002, September
Boehringer Ingelheim signs a 
Master Services Agreement to 
access Pharmagene’s PhaseZERO
®
 
drug discovery services.
2003
Key Pharmagene personnel inﬂuence the drafting 
of the UK Human Tissue Bill to enable ethically 
sourced and consented human tissues to be 
used for research.
2003
Asterand Inc. receives Series C round of funding 
from Oxford Bioscience Partners (Boston, MA), 
Fort Washington Capital Partners (Cincinnati, OH), 
Chrysalis Ventures (Louisville, KY), Arboretum 
Ventures (Ann Arbor, MI), Apjohn Ventures 
(Kalamazoo, MI), and Hillside Capital (Weston, CT).
Chairman’s Statement
 Business  Ov er view
  Asterand has made signiﬁcant progress towards meeting its strategic objectives of sustained positive cash ﬂow and sales growth to secure its position 
as a market leader in the provision of products and services based on the use of human tissue. 
The Group continues to advance its core business. In 2007,  we entered into and extended several agreements with key customers, for example Bristol 
Myers Squibb and  US Department of Defense. These agreements afﬁrm the value of our human tissue based solutions in the marketplace. We deploy 
our science and business development teams in a consultative sales approach to ensure each client’s unique needs are met and we believe that, over 
the long-term, the key driver of shareholder value will be our ability to utilise the scientiﬁc expertise gained from this close alliance with our customers. 
Corporate Action 
In May 2007, the Company received notice, from a consortium of its investors, of a cash offer for the Group. The initial offer was rejected, but 
discussions continued and the consortium increased its bid to a level that an independent committee of the Board was willing to recommend to 
shareholders. However, it became apparent that the consortium was unable to make a proposal that would lead to a timely offer and after consultations 
between its advisers and the UK Takeover Panel the consortium agreed to withdraw from bidding for six months. Throughout the negotiations, 
discussions were cordial. To date, all shareholders involved in the consortium have maintained their shares and they continue to support the Group’s 
str ategy for achieving growth and proﬁtability . 
 Board Changes, Corporate Governance and Leadership
 On 27 March 2007, following an extensive search, we were able to secure the services of Martyn Coombs  as  Director and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer  . He 
previously worked for Amersham plc for nine years in various senior roles and has a track record in business transformation and delivery of improved 
results. Martyn and his team have introduced changes to improve the Group’s operations and market penetration. I am  conﬁdent that these changes 
will be reﬂected in improved results  going forward. 
Randal Charlton and Ronald Openshaw resigned from Asterand in March 2007. We thank both of them for their guidance of the Group and wish them 
well in their future endeavours. 
On 18 February 2008, Ron Long resigned as  senior  independent  director. Ron had served on the Board since January 2001 during which time we have 
beneﬁted from his extensive experience in the pharmaceutical sector. Jack Davis, an existing non-executive director, was elected senior independent 
director following Ron’s resignation.
I have now served on the Board for eight years, the past ﬁve years as Chairman. Therefore, in accordance with best practice corporate governance, 
I have concluded that I should not offer myself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The Board has decided that Jack Davis 
will be elected Chairman when I step down at the AGM. Jack has served as a director of Asterand Inc. since 2003 and has been  my colleague since 
 Asterand and Pharmagene merged in January 2006. I believe that he is  well qualiﬁed for the position with a proven track  record in various executive and 
non-executive director roles. I am very conﬁdent that the Group will continue to progress under his stewardship. 
Outlook 
We are seeing an increase in demand for human tissues and  related tissue based research services. There is clear evidence that pharmaceutical 
companies have begun to value the contribution of research generated by human tissue based in-vitro models. We believe this strong demand will 
provide a foundation for continued growth for the Group in the future. 
  David Lee
Chairman, Asterand plc
