 3
Asterand plc - Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
Dear Shareholders,
It was an honour to have been appointed as Asterand’s Chairman in 
May 2008. I have long believed that Asterand is uniquely positioned to 
emerge as the leader in this large and growing worldwide market. The 
Company is at the forefront of a rapidly changing drug discovery model 
that increasingly involves the use of human tissue to accelerate the 
development of more effective and safer medicines to treat disease.  As 
Chairman, I am proud to lead an outstanding board of directors who are 
dedicated to achieving the following important goals for Asterand. 
Building a Strong Board and Effective Corporate 
Governance
At the start of 2008, we set out to bring individuals onto the board 
with compelling and relevant industry experience. I am pleased to 
report that Peter Coggins, Jonathan Fleming, Jill Force, Ian Ratcliffe and 
Bob Salisbury agreed to join us during the year. Collectively they have 
brought senior level operating experience in building great companies, 
raising capital, financial and legal expertise, complementary life science 
technology such as stem cells and a track record of success from selling 
into our exact customer base. In addition, on 5 January 2009, Asterand’s 
Chief Financial Officer, John Stchur, was appointed as an Executive 
Director to the Board.
Combining the complementary skills of this strong board with the 
leadership that Martyn Coombs and his management team have brought 
to the Company provides us with the expertise necessary to aggressively 
guide the Group as it pursues its strategic objectives. 
In conjunction with these changes, David Lee, John Cullinane Jr., 
David A. Jones, Ron Long and Mina Sooch resigned their positions as 
Non-Executive Directors. David, John, David, Mina and Ron have made a 
substantial difference to Asterand at a key point in our journey. I would 
like to warmly thank them for their insight and guidance over the last 
several years and wish them well in their future endeavours. 
Chairman’s Statement
Close, Transparent Relationships with our 
Shareholders
Over the last eighteen months, we have set out to clearly communicate 
our strategy, and then to be consistent and transparent in our actions. 
We have also sought to understand the perspectives of our major 
shareholders.
On 26 November 2008, the Company successfully completed a placement 
of 2.7 million Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of 5p each at a 
placing price of 15p each. These shares were placed with Chrysalis 
Ventures II, L.P. and raised gross proceeds of £405,000. The share price 
of this placing represented a 25% premium to the previous day’s closing 
share price. We believe the completion of this placement at a premium 
share price in the midst of a challenging global economic market serves 
as further affirmation of Asterand’s corporate strategy and future growth 
potential, and also of our shareholders’ confidence in us.
The Group has also made progress towards improving its visibility 
within the investor community. As a result, we are proud to report that 
Asterand plc ended the year as the top performing stock on the London 
Stock Exchange and won the award of “Best Performing Share 2008” at 
the annual Financial Times PLC Awards.
Alignment of Objectives of managers, employees 
and shareholders 
We continue to implement our plans for granting share options to 
Asterand’s employees. During 2008, we granted a total of 719,000 
shares through our Long Term Incentive programme. We believe share 
options improve our ability to retain key employees as well as ensure 
that all of our employees maintain the same goals as our shareholders. 
Every employee at Asterand has received shares under this program 
allowing them to own a part of the Company they work for and to 
benefit from the growth and success that they are building. 
Positive Outlook
2008 was a year of substantial progress for Asterand. The advances 
in our business came on many fronts including a dramatic growth in 
revenues, achieving positive cash flow for the first time in Company 
history, and substantial improvement in operational efficiencies. I’d 
like to take this opportunity to thank each and every employee of 
our company for their hard work, dedication and commitment which 
achieved these impressive results.
In conclusion, Asterand is extremely well-positioned as a supplier of 
human tissue-based solutions to pharmaceutical and biotech companies 
and to government researchers. Our goal is to meet our global customers’ 
expanding needs with turn key solutions and unmatched customer 
service in order to build on our worldwide leadership position.
Jack Davis 
Chairman, Asterand plc
