 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2009 2
Chairman’s Statement
Dear Shareholders,
It has been my long held belief that human tissue and human tissue-based research 
services contain the key solution to advance the discovery and development of more 
effective and safer therapies to treat human disease. I have also long held the view 
that Asterand is uniquely positioned to lead this growing worldwide market. We have 
been pleased with the concrete steps taken in 2009 towards these ends.
Adding shareholder value
through the acquisition of BioSeek 
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome our BioSeek customers, shareholders 
and employees to Asterand. We are excited to add this exceptional human biology 
company into the Group. I have had the opportunity to meet the BioSeek shareholders 
and employees and have been impressed by the foresight with which they enabled 
this technology to be developed into a predictive tool. Allied now with Asterand’s 
management team and worldwide customer connections, we believe we will forge an 
unbeatable combination.
In addition, BioSeek brings assets, additional capital and products which will provide 
substantial opportunity for growth. Let me say a little about the deal structure, as we 
put in a lot of thought to de-risk this acquisition, whilst enabling good upside for both 
Asterand and BioSeek shareholders. 
Finalised in February 2010, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of BioSeek, 
Inc. in exchange for 2,695,856 Asterand shares valued at $1 million ($0.37 per share). 
The deal includes a provision for an additional payment of up to $13 million which 
would be payable should BioSeek revenues reach $10 million in the year ended 
December 2010. The additional payment will consist of Asterand Ordinary Shares, or 
a combination of Asterand Ordinary Shares and cash, at Asterand’s discretion. 
The acquisition also brings us a presence on the West Coast of the US – clearly it 
will be beneficial to be right at this centre of innovation. We now have a proper 
international footing, with bases in Michigan, the UK, and now in South San Francisco.
Leveraging excellence and
experience within our Board
Our shareholders will recall the wholesale changes to our Board in the Spring of 2008, 
when we rotated industry professionals with track records of success onto our Board. 
We are fortunate that all of our Board of Directors continued to serve throughout 
2009, and I would like to thank them for their many contributions. At Asterand’s 
current size, be it in terms of market capitalisation or revenue, I cannot think of any 
other company with such a quality Board. Clearly we are setting a foundation for the 
possibility of a much more substantive company.
Building a strong relationship with investors
Throughout 2009, as in the past, we have clearly communicated our strategy, and 
related activities, in order to be completely transparent in all of our actions. We also 
continue to listen to our major shareholders in an effort to truly understand their 
perspectives. 
In addition, we have added the expertise of Cenkos Securities plc as a financial 
advisor and co-broker in May 2009. With their extensive experience in working with 
small and mid cap high technology companies, we believe Cenkos is an excellent 
addition to our financial team. We look forward to Cenkos’ and Daniel Stewart’s 
combined expertise and guidance as we advance Asterand’s position in the emerging 
human tissue market. Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2009 3
Aligning objectives between
employees and shareholders
During 2009, we granted a total of 1,773,000 shares to our employees through 
our Long Term Incentive programme. This programme enables us to retain key 
employees, while aligning the goals of our shareholders with those of our employees. 
Under the programme, every Asterand employee receives shares. During 2010, we 
anticipate extending this programme to include the new BioSeek employees, allowing 
them to own a part of their Company, thereby benefiting from the growth and success 
they help to build. 
Positive Outlook
The year 2009 was one of major investment for Asterand. These investments – 
our preparations for the BioSeek acquisition, the GLP accreditation process, and the 
expansion of our tissue donor network among others – are all key steps positioning 
us to achieve our strategic goals. These advancements also came about through 
the efforts of Asterand’s employees and the management team. I’d like to take this 
opportunity to thank each and every employee of our Company for their dedication, 
commitment and hard work. With these investments in place we are positioned 
to more effectively meet the continually evolving demands of our customers. 
In conclusion, our investments in 2009 contribute to a strong foundation which will 
better enable us to lead in the marketplace in 2010 and beyond.
Jack Davis 
Chairman, Asterand plc
