 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2009 4
Chief Executive’s Business Overview
2009 was the most turbulent year in the pharmaceutical and biotech sector that 
I can recall. Against a backdrop of an unprecedented global economic crisis, our 
key customers were in addition faced with looming drug patent expirations, and 
increasing cost levels to develop new compounds. Several of our larger customers 
merged or announced significant retrenchments in R&D expenditure. On 16 March 
2010, PhRMA (the association of the top 30-50 Pharmaceutical companies in the US) 
announced that in 2009 PhRMA-member companies spent an estimated $45.8 billion 
on R&D. This is a 9% reduction on the previous year. Customers became more 
cautious in committing to large expenditures, and several parceled larger orders into 
smaller portions to be made over time. 
What then of Asterand? Well, we have fared better than most. Indeed, we have 
seen increasing demand for human tissue solutions, even against these turbulent 
headwinds.
• Growth: Leaving aside one-off contracts with AFIP, Baylor and Allergan, our 
base business revenue grew by 7% in 2009 at constant exchange rates.
• Investment: While others have downsized and restricted expansion, we 
have chosen to innovate and make bold investments for future growth. 
We have expanded our supply network, and acquired novel technologies. 
These investments are outlined below.
• Breakeven Results: Even after choosing to invest, we delivered essentially 
a breakeven adjusted EBITDA performance.
Investing in building a foundation for the Future 
Expanding our Supplier Network
Our previously stated strategy has been to build out our tissue procurement network, 
in order to:
• Be able to meet a greater proportion of customer orders in the future.
• Enable the offering of a credible one-stop shop to customers.
• Offer an ethnically diverse biobank – our clients seek to establish that their 
compounds have efficacy for people from all over the world, not just from 
the West. 
• Reduce dependence on Russia, and hence risk to sudden geopolitical policy 
changes.
As explained previously, building strong collaborations takes much time – after over 
18 months of concerted effort, I am pleased to report: 
• Europe: In September 2009, we executed an agreement with East-West Bio in 
Paris, facilitating collaboration with 9 key hospitals in Europe.
• Asia: In October 2009, we executed an agreement with procurement sites in 
Asia, again facilitating collaboration with 13 key hospitals in Asia. 
• Dismissal of lawsuit: On 9 November 2009, the lawsuit filed against Asterand 
by ILSbio LLC in the US Federal District Court (Southeastern District of 
Michigan) was dismissed. The lawsuit was attempting to restrict Asterand’s 
activities in Asia. The dismissal of this lawsuit followed a similar rejection of 
claims for injunctive relief ILSbio filed in the Maryland courts. 
As at 31 December 2009, we had over 100 active supplier collaborations with 
academic centres and hospitals.
Acquisition of BioSeek
We were pleased to complete the acquisition of BioSeek in February 2010. BioSeek’s 
platform, BioMAP
®
, is patent protected and consists of high throughput/high content 
screening using human primary cells. Validated disease models can be used to predict 
biological response to compounds. We believe the platform is a strong extension to 
Asterand’s human tissue-based products and services. Furthermore, our experienced 
sales team and connections within pharmaceutical companies will allow us to rapidly 
expand awareness and adoption of BioMAP
®
 within the marketplace.
Good Laboratory Practices (GLP) 
During 2009, we made substantial investments at Royston, in the UK, to create a 
state of the art facility for providing GLP compliant studies, with the aim of broadening 
our services offering. With the subsequent acceptance of our facility into the UK 
GLP Monitoring Programme, we are now able to offer preclinical safety studies for 
regulatory submission. Our initial product offering will be tissue cross reactivity testing 
for therapeutic antibodies. This critical data is required by regulatory authorities, 
such as the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency 
(EMEA), for all biologic investigational new drug submissions.
Continuing progress on our licenced programmes
Work at Allergan continues on the series of small molecule prostanoid agonists 
licensed from Asterand in 2008. The programme is making progress and Allergan 
is currently exploring different compound(s) and formulations to optimise the 
pre-clinical pharmacology, PK and safety studies.
BGC20-1531 is the lead molecule in a portfolio of prostanoid EP4 receptor 
targeting compounds, licensed to BTG in 2006, under development for a variety of 
indications. BTG has successfully completed pre-clinical development and Phase I 
safety and tolerability studies. Additional formulation work is being undertaken to 
optimise the drug product for the first Phase II study to treat acute migraine and 
is progressing well. In addition to migraine, there is extensive evidence supporting  Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2009 5
the utility of EP4 receptor antagonists in further pain indications and inflammatory 
diseases. BGC20-1531 has shown statistically significant analgesic effects in both 
neurogenic and inflammatory pain paradigms in healthy volunteers and data from 
further non-clinical models supports a broader therapeutic application for this novel 
compound.
Leveraging partnerships to expand our 
global footprint
Our client base includes every one of the top 30 pharmaceutical companies in 
the world. By the end of 2009, 13 of these companies had signed Master Service 
Agreements (MSAs) with us. Our MSAs include long term partnerships like Bristol-
Myers Squibb, which in 2009 extended its collaboration with us for an additional three 
years, and Lundbeck, a new MSA client which entered a global framework research 
agreement with us in July 2009. The enthusiastic support we continue to receive from 
our clients is a validation of the quality of products and services we provide.
In April 2009, we entered into a collaborative agreement with Abcam, the rapidly 
growing bioscience company that markets antibodies online. Asterand assisted Abcam 
in the validation and characterisation of select antibodies through our PhaseZERO
®
 
human tissue services platform.
During 2009, we were pleased to successfully complete our contract with Baylor 
College of Medicine (Texas, USA) to replace its breast cancer repository that was 
permanently lost as a result of flooding that followed tropical storm Allison in 2001. 
Through this partnership, Asterand delivered thousands of specimens and associated 
clinical data to Baylor. We are honoured to have assisted this preeminent institution 
in continuing its vital research into cures for breast cancer. 
We are also delighted to report that in March 2010 our BioSeek subsidiary finalised 
a drug development collaboration with Ono Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd. to apply its 
proprietary BioMAP
®
 platform for phenotypic screening, hit identification, lead 
optimisation and clinical candidate selection. Under the multi-year agreement 
BioSeek will receive research funding and additional payments upon achievement of 
certain milestones by drug candidate(s) discovered as a result of the collaboration. 
These drug development partnerships represent a new model for Asterand that have 
upside potential for future revenue streams.
Leading into 2010
We expect the headwinds previously described to continue, at least for the first half 
of 2010. Nevertheless, given the growing realisation that responses in animals are 
a poor guide to responses in humans, we expect the long term trend of demand for 
human-based solutions to continue to increase.
We intend to be the clear leader in this space. Therefore we will continue to invest to 
strengthen our foundation in:
• Supply: Our clients’ needs are becoming more specific and exact. In order 
to meet these needs, and to provide further differentiation from our 
competitors, we will seek closer relationships with our collaborators, and to 
improve our matching of supply and demand.
• Customer intimacy: We will seek more senior level relationships, and to 
increase further the number of clients on MSA agreements.
• Integration of BioSeek: We are very excited about the potential of BioSeek, 
but we have a seasoned management team that has seen many integrations 
executed well, and many executed poorly. We therefore have a 100-day 
implementation plan to carefully implement, following which we will investigate 
the extension of this technology to other therapeutic areas.
• The market itself: We will seek to lead the development of the human-based 
solution market. As one example, in April 2010, we plan to host our inaugural 
human tissue conference. (“Understanding Cancer through Human Tissue-
based Models”). We are pleased that a raft of key opinion leaders, from both 
academia, and pharmaceutical companies, have kindly agreed to present at 
this two-day event. We intend for these sorts of initiatives to help make a 
real difference in the use of human-based solutions to develop new therapies 
against disease.
We are very optimistic about the future.
Martyn Coombs
CEO, Asterand plc
