 02 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholders,
As you may know, it has been my long held belief that human tissue-based solutions
will play an ever increasing role in the discovery, development, and clinical evaluation
of more effective treatments and diagnostics, for human disease. I believe this now
more than ever, as the potential for drug discovery locked away in world biobanks is
beginning to be recognized more prominently. Asterand continues to be the leading
company in this growing niche, with ever growing channels of distribution and world
renowned standards in quality, diversity of materials and ethical protocols. This has
been validated with the new contracts and customers that we have secured in 2010.
We are well positioned to benefit from this growing trend while doing the important
work of helping our customers quicken the pace of bringing new treatments and
diagnostics to market.
Adding shareholder value
through the integration of BioSeek
On 18 February 2010, Asterand finalised its acquisition of BioSeek. Both organizations
immediately set to work, to capitalize on Asterand’s worldwide commercial connections
in order to expand the use of the BioSeek platform. BioSeek’s 2010 performance was
outstanding! Revenue grew 68% from 2009, greatly exceeding any previous year’s
sales.
Our shareholders will recall that the terms of the BioSeek acquisition included a
contingent payment based upon BioSeek’s 2010 revenue. Following the audit of
BioSeek’s 2010 revenues, this contingent payment was calculated as US $8.5 million.
As previously announced, the first US $3 million of this payment was to be satisfied
through the issue of 8.1 million Asterand shares, and the remaining $5.5 million
consideration was to have been paid in cash. To this end we announced in December
2010 that we had secured a term loan and a revolving credit line from Silicon Valley
Bank (“SVB”) to fund this payment. However, volatility in trading during March 2011
impaired our ability to draw on the revolving line of credit. The $3 million term loan
remains drawn and intact. As a consequence, we subsequently agreed with the
BioSeek vendors that the entire $8.5 million of contingent consideration will be
satisfied with cash – $2.5 million will be paid in May 2011 and the remaining $6 million
is to be satisfied in loan notes that mature over the period to December 2013, in a
payment schedule that fits well with our business.
I’d like to congratulate the Asterand and BioSeek management teams and employees
for the success of the integration. Mergers are never easy, but both organizations
worked tirelessly to make this one exceed our pre-acquisition goals.
Board changes and corporate governance
On 8 June 2010, Ian Ratcliffe’s Board of Director term expired and he did not present
himself for re-election. Ian has proven to be an asset to our company and has
contributed significantly to our success during his tenure. I would like to thank him
warmly for his insight and guidance over the past few years and wish him well in his
future endeavours. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all of the Board
of Directors for their contributions throughout 2010. It has been my pleasure to work
with a Board of such high calibre. Their deep industry experience, entrepreneurial
spirit and willingness to take on any assignment has set the foundation for excellence
at the Company.
The Board and Management continues to have a policy of transparency in regards to
our strategy and related activities. An important component of this involves
communicating and listening to our shareholders to understand their ideas and points
of view.
17 May 2010
John Stchur, Asterand’s Chief Financial Officer,
receives the Financial Director of the Year Outside of
the FTSE 350 Award.
7 June 2010
US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) expands
BioSeek’s participation in its ToxCast™ programme,
increasing the contract award amount to $3.2 million,
from $1.7 million.
14 June 2010
BioSeek and Amylin sign an agreement to apply
BioMAP
®
to screen Amylin’s PHORMOL library to
discover peptides with a potential to treat
inflammatory conditions.
15863 Asterand A&R FRONT SECTION:Layout 1 28/04/2011 06:55 Page 2 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2010 03
Aligning objectives between employees and
shareholders
During 2010, we granted a total of 2.5 million share options to our employees through
our Long Term Incentive programme. We have a deep commitment to this program
which enables us to retain key employees, while aligning the goals of our shareholders
with those of our employees and we were especially pleased to grant our first shares
to BioSeek employees. Every Asterand employee receives shares under this
programme, allowing them to own a part of the Company and benefit from the growth
and success they are helping to build.
Positive outlook
The year 2010 was a year of accomplishment on several fronts for Asterand: The
successful integration of the BioSeek acquisition, the acceptance of our Royston facility
for GLP accreditation, and the award of a substantial government contract with the
NCI/NHGRI have positioned us well to achieve our strategic goals. These
advancements were made possible through the extra efforts of Asterand’s employees
and management team. I’d like to take this opportunity to thank all of Asterand’s
employees for their dedication, commitment and hard work.
As witnessed in March 2011, we sometimes experience month to month volatility in
sales. As the business matures and grows, we have made progress towards stabilizing
monthly revenues with long term contracts. I am pleased to say that there is more
visibility into 2011 sales than ever before with several multi-year collaborative
agreements for the BioSeek platform and our contract with the NCI/NGHRI. Thus we
believe that Asterand is well positioned for 2011 and that the achievements of 2010
will provide a solid foundation for Asterand‘s continued leadership within the global
marketplace for years to come.
Jack Davis
Chairman, Asterand plc
22 September 2010
Asterand appoints Dr Dalia Cohen Ph.D. as its new
Chief Scientific Officer.
1 October 2010
The US National Cancer Institute awards a contract to
Asterand, valued at up to $24.3 million, for the supply
of human biospecimens for The Cancer Genome Atlas
project.
15863 Asterand A&R FRONT SECTION:Layout 1 28/04/2011 06:55 Page 3
