 04 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Dear Shareholders,
I’d like to take a brief moment to express my sympathy to the Japanese people. I have
a great many close business and personal relationships in Japan and was deeply
saddened by the tragic impact of the recent earthquake and tsunami.
2010
2010 was a good year for Asterand – a year of inflection.
Our revenues exceeded $21.3 million (an increase of 14% over 2009), and we were
nearly break even on an adjusted EBITDA basis.
Furthermore, we met four key milestones:
1. Acquisition of BioSeek
As our first acquisition as a public company, and after assessing many potential
targets, we focused on BioSeek, a California-based company with propriety human
primary cell based predictive technology. BioSeek met all of our acquisition criteria;
in particular its technology is complementary to Asterand’s human tissue based
business. We negotiated a de-risked deal, and I would like to thank our shareholders
for approving this deal on February 18th, 2010.
Of course, after approval, that is when the hard work starts, and those people who
have had involvement in M&A will know that the integration of two companies, cultures
and histories can be fraught with difficulties. Looking back now, I feel that we
managed the integration very well, and I feel very proud of the management team,
both those originally from Asterand and from BioSeek. This bodes well for future
acquisitions. 2010 Revenues of $6.4 million represented a 68% increase over 2009.
More importantly even than the revenue metric:
• We retained all of the senior key management team in BioSeek
• We established a blended selling model (where our territory based sales
representatives lead the promotion of a lite version, and a central specialist
team lead on larger deals). The sales cycle of BioSeek is longer than for
Asterand’s traditional business. Towards the end of 2010, we started getting
some real traction in this blended distribution model, which bodes well for
2011 and beyond.
2. Award under The Cancer Genome Atlas Project
(TCGA)
In September we were awarded a contract under The Cancer Genome Atlas Project
(TCGA) – (US National Cancer Institute (NCI) / the National Human Genome Research
Institute (NHGRI)) for $24 million over five years, including an initial base period of
$5.4 million over the first 17 months.
Under the contract Asterand will supply clinically annotated human biospecimens to
further the NCIs critical research into new treatments and diagnostics for cancer.
Many shareholders will already be very familiar with the NCI, but for the benefit of
those perhaps non-US shareholders I will point out that the NCI is an extremely
prestigious well respected organisation, that invests more in research into cancer than
any pharmaceutical company and is regarded as an opinion former and an establisher
of standards. We in Asterand therefore feel honoured to be given the opportunity of
working with the NCI, and feel that our quest for the highest quality specimens and
7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000
0
2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Annual Revenues ($K)
15863 Asterand A&R FRONT SECTION:Layout 1 28/04/2011 06:56 Page 4 Asterand plc - Annual Report and Accounts 2010 05
the most complete and assured information has been validated. As an example, on
award of this contract, the US Government approved Asterand’s model for the ethical
collection of tissues for research.
3. Establishment of new contracts
In 2010, we won key contracts with pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies, and
government agencies, including Ono Pharmaceuticals, Eisai Co. Ltd, Cellzome, Amylin
Pharmaceuticals, and the EPA (US Environmental Protection Agency).
We have an example of a new breed of deal for Asterand – beyond mere fee and
service, and encompassing the possibility of milestone payments, if compounds
progress through our platform. So, we have now demonstrated that our platform is
unique and significant enough to be worthy of such deals.
In June the US EPA increased its Phase II funding commitment to BioSeek under the
ToxCast™ screening program to $3.2 million. Approximately 750 chemicals and
nanomaterials are being screened to predict harmful effects using the BioMAP
platform. BioSeek began screening in 2010 and this project will continue throughout
2011.
4. Increased focus on science and innovation
We were awarded GLP accreditation at our Royston facility in February. In April, we
hosted a successful inaugural human tissue conference in Washington DC. The
conference provided an opportunity for opinion leaders in the government, academia
and commercial companies to gather and discuss key issues at a critical time in the
development of this new field.
In addition, we appointed Dr Dalia Cohen as CSO in September. Dalia is a recognised
leader in the drug and diagnostic development field; she will help move our company
to the next level.
The macro environment in the immediate term
The environment over the last eighteen months has not been easy, and the medium
to long term trends have been impacted by short term pressures. Our traditional
customers, big Pharma, have found themselves buffeted by patent expirations,
increasing costs and decreasing productivity of R&D, the economy, healthcare reform,
and have responded by offshoring, merging, reducing therapeutic sites and closing key
sites.
Whilst in the medium term, this will probably be advantageous for Asterand (e.g.
more outsourcing), over the last eighteen months it has led to a brake on demand.
It is pleasing therefore that our results described above have been achieved despite
these macro issues.
BioSeek payment
In April 2011, our contingent payment for BioSeek to the previous owners became
due. As previously announced in December 2011, our intention was to satisfy the
consideration with cash to avoid unnecessary dilution for our existing shareholders.
We have now achieved this, albeit that the Company now has debt of approximately
$9m, with what we believe is an acceptable and an achievable payment schedule.
What next for Asterand?
Towards the end of 2009, seeing the short term issues in Pharma, management in
Asterand decided to seek business with government and diagnostic companies (i.e.
as well as Pharma companies). In 2011, we anticipate that our two top customers will
be the NCI and the EPA. Furthermore, in our tissue business, three of the top five
commercial customers currently are diagnostic companies.
In terms of the medium to long term, let me quote from an independent report on
Biobanking in the Medical R&D Market from VisionGain (2009):
“The biobanking market is expected to see significant growth from 2010 to 2025, due
primarily to the realisation of advantages of biospecimens compared with animal
models in pre-clinical pharma research.”
“…we conclude that the biobanking market will thrive during the forecast period, from
2010 to 2025, biobanks will become one of the most important resources for
advancing medical research and development of drugs and diagnostic tests.”
So, we are very optimistic for 2011 and beyond. In 2011 we will have revenue from
the TCGA (negligible in 2010) and anticipate further growth for BioSeek (we already
have $5.5 million booked business). Indeed, our line of sight of business is higher than
ever previously.
We are fortunate to operate in a niche (human based solutions for companies engaged
in research) that has potential for substantive growth, has barriers to entry, and is very
fragmented, with the majority of competition stemming from academia and cancer
centres. We seek to be the leader and the consolidator in this niche, and to offer a
credible one stop shop to our customers.
We intend to hold our second human tissue conference, on the 1st and 2nd June
2011 in Chicago, and have already lined up an impressive cast of speakers.
While I’m proud of what Asterand has accomplished in 2010, I’m even more excited
about what our future holds.
Martyn Coombs
CEO, Asterand plc
15863 Asterand A&R FRONT SECTION:Layout 1 28/04/2011 06:56 Page 5
