 one that was focused on integration and investment designed to 
reposition the Company given the rapid sector changes. blinkx 
 programmatic products and consolidated the Company’s supply 
sources, enabling advertisers to access inventory across devices 
and formats from a single platform. Simultaneously, blinkx 
accelerated the drawdown of certain historical Non-Core product 
lines that were no longer aligned with advertiser requirements. 
 alignment with Industry trends.
During FY2016, the online advertising industry continued  
 advertisers followed consumers online. As a testament to this 
trend, digital advertising spend in the US is set to overtake 
television spend in the next few years. Within digital, mobile  
 time this year, more display ads were bought programmatically 
than through direct channels. While the growth trajectory for 
mobile, video and programmatic trading remains strong, factors 
such as brand safety, viewability and consumer privacy have 
continued to impact industry dynamics.  This has triggered  
scrutiny of supply quality, and highlighted a discrepancy in the 
value exchange equation between digital consumers, advertisers 
 
 integrated offering, and point solutions that face challenges of 
scale and scope, making them ripe for consolidation. 
Against this industry backdrop, blinkx successfully grew its Core 
 over 70% of revenue during the Period, compared with 50% last 
year. As part of the RhythmOne portfolio, the Company launched 
 RhythmOne inventory across Owned, Controlled and Extended 
supply sources. The Company now boasts one of the largest supply 
footprints in the Industry, ranking #6 US platform by comScore 
and #12 by Quantcast, as at 31 March 2016. Our offering 
covers a comprehensive range of formats and devices, including 
desktop and mobile, video, rich media, social and native. Through 
RhythmOne, advertisers can reach target audiences to achieve 
measurable ROI at their desired spend level through  
a single entry point.  
With growing advertiser concerns around viewability and 
 approach to brand safety. Our RhythmMax platform includes 
 our marketplace. The ability to prevent fraud before it occurs, 
rather than just measure fraud after a campaign has run,  
is a radically different approach to operating a programmatic 
 and enrich the inventory made available to advertisers through our 
 inventory quality.  
 been the ability to mine data across our inventory, covering over 
300M users and all campaigns that run across our platforms. 
Increasingly, brands seek partners with proprietary data that  
 segment, target and deliver relevant advertising messages  
to their audiences. These capabilities support the Company’s 
audience-centric value proposition and help us break down 
traditional format- or channel-centric silos in how online 
 to the advertiser’s target audience and campaign performance.  
Indeed, the delineation between mobile and desktop spend will 
continue to blur, as advertisers focus instead on integrated  
 performance regardless of device.
The Company has also continued to innovate around its creative 
 blindness and the prevalence of ad blockers has become a distinct 
concern. In today’s environment, however, the need for high-
impact creative must be balanced with practical requirements 
 enhanced its creative offering by adopting the Interactive 
Advertising Bureau’s LEAN (Light, Encrypted, Ad-choice supported, 
Non-invasive) formats and investing in a proprietary creative 
 ad units that can be deployed in direct or automated buying 
environments. Through these developments, blinkx is able to 
 teams and improving the experience for consumers.
Throughout the year, the Company consistently displayed strong 
 cost structure and better align with changing industry conditions, 
 as well as the Company’s integration efforts, we were able to 
 areas of the business.  This included consolidating our physical 
 scalable hybrid cloud infrastructure and decreasing the number 
of data centers from 12 to 5. In addition, the Company reduced 

 industry change will be instrumental as we look to drive future 
organic and acquisition growth. 
In closing, FY2016 was transformative for the industry and pivotal 
for the Company. We believe that we now have the technology, 
talent and relationships in place to scale both organic and inorganic 
growth as the industry continues to evolve and consolidate. 
Through strong cost discipline and a strategic focus on Core 
mobile, video and programmatic products, we are now aligned  
 Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee 
 
blinkx plc 
16 May 2016
THE CEO’S REPORT
6 Subhransu 
(“Brian”) 
Mukherjee 
Chief Executive 
 THROUGH STRONG COST  
DISCIPLINE AND A STRATEGIC  
FOCUS ON CORE MOBILE,  
VIDEO AND PROGRAMMATIC  
PRODUCTS, WE ARE NOW  
ALIGNED WITH BROADER  
STRUCTURAL MARKET TRENDS. 
WE FEEL ENERGIZED AS WE  
ENTER A NEW FINANCIAL YEAR 
AND PLAN TO FOCUS OUR  
ATTENTION ON REVENUE  
GROWTH AND PROFITABILITY.
7
