 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
3
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Chairman’s Statement
A
s it approaches its 30th birthday in September, I am pleased 
to report that Bloomsbury has had a good year in terms 
of the quality of both its publishing and its financial results. 
Total revenue is up 11% and operating profit before highlighted 
items is up 8%. The overall results of the business are in line with 
market expectations. Based on this the Board proposes a final 
dividend of 5.34 pence per share to Shareholders on the register on 
26 August 2016, which gives an increase in full year dividend of  
5% and continues Bloomsbury’s long-term stable dividend growth.
The Group continues to pursue its strategy of increasing the 
proportion of its business in non-consumer areas. In order to 
leverage our entrepreneurial workforce and valuable portfolio 
of intellectual property, I am delighted to report on a new major 
strategic growth initiative, Bloomsbury 2020. This initiative will 
accelerate the expansion of the Group’s range of digital content 
products and will invest in the B2B sales processes to grow sales 
and revenues. This will build on the success of our platforms such 
as Drama Online, Bloomsbury Collections and Berg Fashion Library. 
From the time of Bloomsbury’s foundation in 1986, our overarching 
mission – to publish works of excellence and originality – has guided 
the business and will continue to do so with this new initiative.
We are also simplifying our organisational structure by combining 
our Adult and Children’s consumer books divisions and combining 
Business Information with Academic & Professional along with 
Special Interest and Educational into a Non-Consumer division. 
These changes will help to streamline our internal processes.
More details on Bloomsbury 2020 and the restructuring are given in 
the Chief Executive’s Review that follows this Chairman’s Statement. 
We are delighted that Richard Charkin has agreed to stay on the 
Board when, at the end of this financial year, he reduces his formal 
time commitment to two days a week.
I am pleased to confirm that the two most recent appointments 
to the Board made following the 2015 AGM in July 2015, namely 
Jonathan Glasspool as an Executive Director and John Warren as 
the Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee, 
have both settled in well. The Corporate Governance section of 
the Annual Report explains the Board’s evaluation process and 
provides a summary of the findings and conclusions of this year’s 
Board evaluation. The Board has concluded that it can best support 
the business as it evolves through a programme of regular new 
board appointments. This will ensure that, at a time of considerable 
change, there is a steady inflow to the Board of new insights from 
other businesses. We plan that the size of the Board will remain at  
8 and, generally speaking, we anticipate appointing one new  
non-executive director each year and for the average duration  
of non-executive appointments to be around 4 years.
We recently welcomed two new institutional Shareholders to our 
portfolio, namely Fidelity UK and Majedie Asset Management 
Limited. The Board continues to be keen to receive any feedback 
from Shareholders.
We are proud of the high social value of our core business of 
promoting literature and literacy. Bloomsbury’s authors enrich 
the lives of millions of people across the world. I would like, on 
behalf of the Board, to thank all our staff for their hard work and 
commitment to publishing the Bloomsbury way.
Bloomsbury is a highly innovative publishing group with a Board 
and management team who demonstrate their capacity to adapt in 
order to stay ahead of the challenges of a rapidly changing market. 
The depth of talent across Bloomsbury gives me confidence that we 
are very able to continue to face and to exploit future challenges 
over the years to come.
Sir Anthony Salz
Non-Executive Chairman
Berg Fashion Central online service is Bloomsbury's recently 
released upgrade to the highly popular Berg Fashion Library and 
provides additional content and functionality.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   3 14/06/2016   10:26:13
