 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
5
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Bestsellers 2015/2016
Global consumer e-book Global consumer (print and e-book)
1. Queen of Shadows
Sarah J. Maas
2. A court of Thorns and Roses
Sarah J. Maas
3. Heir of Fire
Sarah J. Maas
4. Throne of Glass
Sarah J. Maas
5. Crown of Midnight
Sarah J. Maas
6. Paper Towns
John Green
7. Jonathan Strange and Mr Norrell
Susanna Clarke
8. Kitchen Confidential
Anthony Bourdain
9. Chasing the Scream
Johann Hari
10. Sweet Caress
William Boyd
1. Harry Potter and the Philosopher's  
Stone: Illustrated Edition
J.K. Rowling
2. Harry Potter box sets  
and separate books
J.K. Rowling
3. Paper Towns 
John Green
4. Queen of Shadows
Sarah J. Maas
5. A court of Thorns and Roses
Sarah J. Maas
6. Throne of Glass
Sarah J. Maas
7. Tom's Table
Tom Kerridge
8. Heir of Fire
Sarah J. Maas
9. Crown of Midnight
Sarah J. Maas
10. Wisden Cricketers' Almanack 2015
Edited by Lawrence Booth
Rank is based on revenue
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   5 14/06/2016   10:26:29 6 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Chief Executive’s Review
The effective rate of tax for the year was 6.3% compared to 8.9% 
for the year ended 28 February 2015. The rates in both years 
are low, but are expected to increase to a more normal level of 
approximately 25% in 2016/17. In 2016 the rate includes £0.5 million 
benefit from the utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 
arising as a result of the resolution of an HMRC tribunal over the 
use of Bloomsbury Verlag losses dating back to 2003 and 2004. In 
addition there is a £0.6 million double tax relief benefit arising in 
2016 following the filing of prior year US tax computations. The  
2015 rate includes the recognition of additional deferred tax assets.
Diluted earnings per share, excluding highlighted items, were  
15.24 pence, up 3% from 14.73 pence in 2015. Total diluted earnings 
per share for the year were 12.93 pence compared to 11.90 pence 
in 2015.
The Group’s net cash balance was £5.2 million at 29 February 2016 
(2015: £7.5 million). Cash from higher profits was offset by a higher 
working capital outflow due to the timing of receipts from rights 
and services revenues. 
Academic & Professional
Total revenues for the division were £32.7 million (2015:  
£36.0 million). As expected, rights and services revenues reduced 
year on year following the inclusion last year of several key 
contracts. Book revenues, which make up 92% of total revenues, 
grew by 2% year on year to £30.1 million. Within this, digital 
revenues grew by 24% year on year to £5.3 million, more than 
treble the overall industry growth rate in calendar year 2015. In 
particular we had very good revenues from home-grown digital 
institutional products such as Bloomsbury Collections and Drama 
Online. Digital now represents 16% of total revenues in the division 
(2015: 12%), with digital growth offsetting continuing print revenue 
weakness. We were successful in our two key targets for growth 
in the year, which were digital revenues and revenues in the US 
– where there was 5% growth in total revenues. Operating profit 
before highlighted items was £3.2 million (2015: £5.1 million) in 
total and £0.8 million (2015: £0.4 million) excluding the effect of the 
higher margin rights and services contracts. 
In December 2015 we announced the acquisition from RELX Group 
of the publishing rights to six must-have family law titles including 
Duckworth’s Matrimonial Property & Finance and Hershman and 
McFarlane: Children Law and Practice. The consideration was  
£0.5 million in cash (after adjusting for deferred income). These  
are some of the most authoritative family law products in the UK and 
they provide Bloomsbury Professional with a high quality foundation 
for a new digital family law service. Bloomsbury Publishing is now the 
largest independent legal publisher in the UK. During the year its 
UK tax business delivered some strong titles including Tax Advisers 
Guide to Trusts, Principles of International Taxation, Revenue Law 
and Tax Planning for Family and Owner-Managed Companies. It 
also expanded its Tax Online service and, in its second full year of 
ownership, the Hart list delivered very significant revenues from its 
digital collections. 
Bloomsbury Professional has a range of online services.
Bloomsbury Collections is the online academic platform for 
delivering scholarly texts.
Drama Online is a subscription service providing a resource for plays, 
critical analysis and performance featuring pre-eminent drama lists.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   6 14/06/2016   10:26:29 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
7
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
The Academic division had particular success in its performing 
arts lists. We had notable successes with student edition play text 
publishing following the launch of the new GCSE English Literature 
exam resulting in increased sales of bestselling set texts, Simon 
Stephen’s adaptation of The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night- 
Time and Willy Russell’s Blood Brothers. 
The 400th anniversary of Shakespeare’s death in 1616 was marked 
with a range of publications in print and online, notably with a 
volume featuring leading contemporary poets and their responses 
to the Sonnets. The Arden Shakespeare’s On Shakespeare’s Sonnets 
is published in collaboration with the Royal Society of Literature and 
the British Council and has been nominated as one of the Telegraph’s 
Top Ten New Books on Shakespeare. New editions of the major set 
texts Hamlet and Othello will also be published this year.
The success of our institutional products to date, such as Drama 
Online, Berg Fashion Library, Bloomsbury Collections, and 
Bloomsbury Professional Online, led to 24% growth in the last 
financial year, and we are projecting higher growth in this financial 
year. In 2016 we will be launching a new collection of drama films 
from the BBC which will significantly increase the video presence of 
Drama Online in schools and universities worldwide. The collection 
includes the film adaptation of the Royal Shakespeare Company’s 
critically acclaimed Hamlet starring Patrick Stewart alongside 
David Tennant in the title role; an award-winning National Theatre 
production of King Lear; core curriculum plays by Henrik Ibsen, 
Anton Chekhov and Sophocles as well as the recent film adaptation 
of major GCSE set text An Inspector Calls by J. B. Priestley. In addition, 
Bloomsbury, together with Faber & Faber, are pleased to announce 
a new digital content platform for libraries, educators, students 
and researchers to be sold via subscription and perpetual access to 
academic institutions. Building on the success of the award-winning 
Drama Online initiative, Screen Studies, launching in January 2018, 
will combine iconic and contemporary screenplays, works by 
leading directors, critical and contextual works covering theory and 
history, as well as practical instruction on screenwriting, film and TV 
production, documentary film-making and animation techniques.
The division was shortlisted for the IPG Independent Publishers 
Awards – Academic & Professional Publisher of the Year and for the 
Bookseller Academic & Professional Publisher of the Year, in both 
cases for the fourth year in a row. 
Global Academic & Professional  
(print & e-book) bestsellers 2015/2016
1. J.J Pizzuto's Fabric Science & Fabric  
Science Swatch Kit
Allen C. Cohen and Ingrid Johnson
2. Blood Brothers
Willy Russell
3. Survey of Historic Costume
Phyllis G. Tortora & Keith Eubank
4. Swatch Reference Guide for  
Fashion Fabrics
Deborah Young
5. Pedagogy of the Oppressed
Paulo Freire
6. The Curious Incident of the Dog  
in the Night-Time
Mark Haddon, Simon Stephens
7. A Guide to Fashion Sewing
Connie Amaden-Crawford
8. Fashion Forecasting
Evelyn L. Brannon
9. Retail Buying
Richard Clodfelter
10. J.K. Rowling: A Bibliography 1997-2013
Phillip W. Errington
Rank is based on revenue
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   7 14/06/2016   10:26:38 8 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Chief Executive’s Review
Children’s & Educational
Children’s & Educational division revenue for the year increased 
by 57% to £41.8 million (2015: £26.6 million). Operating profit 
before highlighted items increased by 111% to £6.0 million (2015: 
£2.9 million). There was revenue growth across all territories in 
local currency, 42% in Australia, 31% in the US, 62% in India and 
a standout growth of 70% in the UK. This excellent result in the 
division reflects the success of our five-year strategy focusing on 
commercial title acquisitions, targeted and strategic marketing 
and brand management of our major authors. Continued success 
with the picture book list and activity list has led to growth in our 
illustrated publishing, in which we hold world rights. This financial 
year saw the creation of a children’s non-fiction publishing team, 
which will lead to further trade growth in the future. Our UK  
Nielsen BookScan value increased by 60% in a market up by  
7%, and our market share increased from 2.3% to 3.4%. 
Our sales of Harry Potter in the year grew by 133%. Harry Potter  
and the Philosopher’s Stone Illustrated Edition by J. K. Rowling and 
Jim Kay was published to great acclaim. Reviews were consistently 
good, with the Telegraph saying the book was “a triumph – a book 
so alive it seems to jump, explode and slither out of your hands as 
you read.” We sold rights to Jim Kay’s illustrations in 28 languages.  
Our re-jacketed Jonny Duddle editions of the seven Harry Potter 
novels continued to perform strongly in all territories. 
Sales of Sarah J. Maas titles grew by 184%. The launch of her new 
trilogy, A Court of Thorns and Roses, sold in 13 languages and hit the 
New York Times Young Adult bestseller list for eight weeks. A Court of 
Mist and Fury, the second book in this trilogy, has just hit number  
one on the New York Times Young Adult bestseller list. Her new  
Throne of Glass novel – Queen of Shadows – has sold in 24 languages 
and was on the New York Times Series bestseller list for four weeks and 
hit number five on the Bookseller UK children’s chart. It was also voted 
Goodreads' Winner: Best YA Fantasy and Science Fiction of 2015. 
We capitalised on a film adaption of John Green’s Paper Towns 
starring Cara Delevingne with two new editions of this evergreen 
Young Adult novel. The film tie-in edition was a Bookseller children’s 
number one, remaining there for five weeks, and we have sold  
more than one million copies. 
Our two best performers on the Bloomsbury Picture Book list were 
You Can’t Take an Elephant on the Bus by Patricia Cleveland-Peck, 
illustrated by David Tazzyman, selling 33,000 copies through the 
UK BookScan (Nielsen TCM), and Never Tickle a Tiger by Pamela 
Butchart, illustrated by Marc Boutavant, selling 20,000 copies 
through UK BookScan and translation rights in nine territories.  
I Love You Night and Day by Smriti Prasadam Halls and Alison Brown 
continued to sell strongly in the US following a month in the Barnes 
& Noble Valentine’s Day promotion. 
The Philosopher's Stone is first in the Harry Potter series to be 
illustrated. Sales in the year of the illustrated edition have been strong.
The Academic division had particular success in its performing 
arts list with sales helped by the launch of the new GCSE English 
Literature exam 
The award winning new trilogy by Sarah J. Maas is reaching an 
international audience of readers and hit number one in the New 
York Time Young Adult bestseller list.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   8 14/06/2016   10:26:44 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
9
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
The Wolf Wilder by Katherine Rundell was the most reviewed 
children’s book in the UK in the run-up to Christmas and sales have 
been strong for the beautiful illustrated hardback package. 
We achieved the Overall Winner and Children’s Trade Category 
Winner at the British Printing Industries Federation’s Book Design 
and Production Awards for The Imaginary by A. F. Harrold and Emily 
Gravett. The judges said “It is a delight to see publishers willingly 
upping their game in terms of print and production.” It was also 
awarded Kirkus Reviews' Best Middle Grade Books of 2015 in the US.
Andy Seed’s Silly Book of Side-Splitting Stuff was named the winner  
of the Blue Peter Award for a Book with Facts. 
In the Education division we had two Education Resource Award 
winners: Early Years Non ICT for Time to Communicate by Trudi 
Fitzhenry and Karen Murphy; and Secondary Non ICT for 100 Ideas 
– Outstanding Science Lessons by Ian McDaid. The A&C Black Music 
list moved to Collins Learning in the year. This leaves our list focused 
on generalist primary teachers and secondary school teachers. Our 
strategy is to publish titles that support today’s teachers and today’s 
curriculum and to exploit our content through digital innovation. 
E-book sales in the US rose to 18% of book sales, from 15% last year 
– due to strong sales of Sarah J. Maas titles. In the UK sales of Paper 
Towns and Sarah J. Maas titles contributed to e-book sales rising to 
11% of book sales for the trade list, up from 9% last year (excluding 
Harry Potter sales where we don’t hold digital rights). Bloomsbury 
Spark, our e-first list, continued to publish titles for the young adult 
and new adult market. 
We were shortlisted for the IPG Independent Publishers Awards 
– Children’s Publisher of the Year and are shortlisted for the 
Bookseller Children’s Publisher of the Year. 
Bloomsbury Picture Books are selling strongly.
Bloomsbury Children's authors continue to win literary prizes. The 
division was short-listed for the IPG Independent Publishers Award 
and for the Bookseller Children's Publisher of the Year.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   9 14/06/2016   10:26:50 10 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Chief Executive’s Review
Adult 
Revenue increased by 3% year on year to £46.0 million (2015:  
£44.7 million). Osprey Publishing, which was acquired in December 
2014, generated revenue of £7.2 million in the year (2015:  
£1.5 million). On a like for like basis, excluding the results of this 
acquisition, Adult revenues were down by 10% year on year. 
Operating profit before highlighted items was £2.7 million (2015: 
£3.0 million). Results last year included the success of two major 
cookery titles as well as the release of the paperback of And the 
Mountains Echoed by Khaled Hosseini.
Our global publishing strategy continues for both our general and 
special interest markets and was strengthened by the acquisition of 
global publishing rights and by investment in the US market for our 
niche publishing activities, in particular in Osprey military history 
and popular science through our Bloomsbury Sigma imprint.
The market for print books throughout the English-speaking 
world was robust with many bookshop chains showing improved 
performance in spite of intense competition from internet retailers 
and e-books. Some of this improvement has been driven by 
the extraordinary performance of a number of adult colouring 
books but there is an underlying confidence in the future of 
traditional bookselling and traditional books for pleasure, leisure, 
enlightenment and giving.
Our focus on special interest niches is paying off, with that part 
of the business representing 14% of total Bloomsbury sales 
(2015: 10%). The value of this strategy is the ability to pinpoint 
market sectors and promote and sell direct to a community of 
shared interest. Our chosen niches are military history (through 
Osprey), natural history (through Helm and Poyser), sport 
(through Nautical, Reed’s, and Wisden), popular science (through 
Sigma) and reference (through Who’s Who, Whitaker’s, and 
www.writersandartists.co.uk). In each of these areas we have 
strengthened our editorial positioning, and invested in digital 
marketing, new products and portfolio widening. The results  
have been impressive and there is much opportunity  
still to be uncovered.
On the general trade side our key authors continue to grow.  
Celia Imrie’s Not Quite Nice hit the bestseller lists as did William 
Boyd’s Sweet Caress, while both James Runcie’s Grantchester 
series (with six million viewers for each TV episode) and Hannah 
Rothschild’s debut novel, The Improbability of Love (which has been 
shortlisted for the Bailey’s Prize), have garnered extraordinary 
attention and sales. In addition we had new books from our 
established authors such as Margaret Atwood, TC Boyle, Esther 
Freud and Colum McCann. In non-fiction we had great success 
with Adam Sisman’s superb biography of John le Carré, Elizabeth 
Gilbert’s Big Magic, Peter Frankopan’s Silk Roads, Patti Smith’s  
M Train, and our Christmas special, A Guinea Pig Pride & Prejudice, 
which introduced a whole new generation to Jane Austen. 
Other highlights included the film tie-in edition of Carol by Patricia 
Highsmith and Kamila Shamsie’s A God in Every Stone being 
shortlisted for last year’s Bailey’s Prize; Sheila Hancock’s Miss 
Carter’s War being selected for the Richard and Judy book club;  
Osprey Publishing has settled in well following its acquisition by 
Bloomsbury in the previous financial year.
Writers and Artists provides information, training and advice for 
authors who seek to develop their skills.
Bloomsbury Adult has had a strong publishing list during the year,
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   10 14/06/2016   10:26:53 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
11
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Roz Chast’s Can’t we Talk about Something More Pleasant? 
remaining on the New York Times bestseller list for the entire year; 
and publishing Nobel Prize winner Patrick Modiano’s Occupation 
Trilogy.
Among the many literary prizes our authors and books were 
awarded are: The Sheridan Morley Prize for Tennessee Williams by 
John Lahr, the Pulitzer Prize for The Sixth Extinction by Elizabeth 
Kolbert; the James Tait Black Prize for The Valley by Richard Benson; 
the National Book Critics Circle Award for Dreamland by Sam 
Quinones; Victoria’s Premier’s Award for The World Without Us 
by Mireille Juchau; the Ramnath Goenka Award for Excellence 
in Journalism for Mecca: The Sacred City by Ziauddin Sardar; and 
for Bloomsbury itself the Gourmand Award for Best Big Cookery 
Publisher in the World for the last twenty years.
Our digital-first list, Bloomsbury Reader, has now generated over 
£1.0 million of revenue since launching in September 2011 with 
the aim of bringing literary backlists into circulation alongside 
new titles as e-books and, based on consumer demand, print 
editions. Bestsellers include The White Cottage Mystery by Margery 
Allingham, first serialised in 1927 and Bloomsbury’s Outsider, first 
published in 2015 and shortlisted for the James Tait Black Award  
for Best Biography.  
Bloomsbury Information
Bloomsbury Information provides innovative content marketing 
and publishing services to external partners. This includes the 
development of IP-rich knowledge hubs; large-scale, multi-year 
digital content and community platforms provided as a full service 
for other organisations; publishing, management and consultancy 
services; and content creation and licensing, customised for 
other organisations. Bloomsbury Information also publishes the 
Bloomsbury Business list. 
Revenue in the year was £3.2 million (2015: £3.9 million), with much 
of this change due to the end of the seven-year term of contracts 
with Qatar Foundation ("QF"). Operating profit before highlighted 
items was £1.2 million (2015: £1.1 million).
The contracts for Bloomsbury to provide QF with publishing services 
reached the end of their term in December 2015. The original 
objective of the QF relationship was to achieve knowledge transfer 
to QF to enable it to run its own self-sufficient publishing company. 
We have handed over to the strong local team we developed 
having completed this mission. QF now has the tools, knowledge 
and experience to take the reins and run its own publishing house. 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing published more than 200 
titles in Arabic and English, winning awards and having bestselling 
titles over its first seven years. In April we reached an agreement 
with Kalimat, a publisher in Sharjah, to translate Arabic books into 
English for the global market and to translate English-language 
books into Arabic.
The IZA World of Labor knowledge hub had a strong year of global 
engagement with policymakers and the media. It now contains more 
than 230 peer-reviewed articles written by leading labour economists, 
and achieved more than 250 global media mentions in 2015, 
including articles in the Washington Post, The Times, the Economist and 
Bloomsbury authors published by the Adult division continue to win 
a wide range of literary prizes for outstanding works. .
Sales have exceeded £1 million for the Bloomsbury Reader digital 
first list
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   11 14/06/2016   10:26:59 12 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Chief Executive’s Review
the Financial Times. The knowledge hub covers important and timely 
topics such as asylum policy in Europe and the impact of robots on 
employment, and its content helped inform the B20 Employment 
Taskforce Report. We continue to grow key partnerships with leading 
organisations like the World Bank, OECD and UCL.
From 2016, Bloomsbury is pleased to be providing publishing 
services to the Arcadian Library to digitise it and sell access to a 
new digital platform containing images of its unique collection 
of rare books and manuscripts. The Arcadian Library is one of the 
best collections of books about relations between the West and the 
Arab and Islamic worlds, including travel, medicine and science. 
The Library was assembled over decades and always held as a 
private collection. Bloomsbury will be digitising these books for the 
first time and making them available to universities, libraries and 
individuals around the world as a subscription product.
Bloomsbury provided Lloyds Bank with business content aimed 
at their SME business customers during the year, including a new 
business glossary that went live on the Lloyds Business Resource 
Centre. Lloyds will continue to launch more Bloomsbury content in 
the coming year, which will provide business thought leadership, 
insight and best practice to its business customers. 
The Bloomsbury Business list continued to grow this year, as did  
our partnership with Ashridge/Hult Business School. Titles published 
from this partnership included Capitalism’s Toxic Assumptions by 
Eve Poole and Creating Financial Value by Malcolm Allitt. Other titles 
in the list were well received, including Rewire: A Radical Approach 
to Tackling Diversity and Difference by Chris Yates and Pooja Sachdev 
and Managing for Success: Spotting Danger Signals – and Fixing 
Problems Before They Happen by Morgen Witzel, both of which  
were covered by the Financial Times.
Outlook 
We announced in May major new strategic growth initiative called 
Bloomsbury 2020, and the creation of Bloomsbury Digital Resource 
Publishing. We plan to accelerate significantly the growth of digital 
revenues by implementing a new digital publishing plan in our 
move to become primarily a non-consumer publisher in the B2B 
academic and professional information market. The increased 
range of digital products will include reversioning and updating 
content from Bloomsbury’s extensive and deep backlists, as well 
as licensing in high quality third party intellectual property, and 
primary resource material from a wide range of international 
content providers. Bloomsbury aims to become the go-to scholarly 
partner for copyright holders looking to reach HE institutions 
around the world, but who lack the expertise and infrastructure to 
do so effectively.
The budget for academic libraries worldwide is estimated to be 
worth $5 billion. Academic & Professional digital output to date 
has been highly successful in terms of profit margins (mature 
digital resources often yield an operating profit margin of 25% 
to 40%) and in terms of growth (24% total revenue growth in 
the last financial year). Bloomsbury 2020 will build rapidly on this 
success, by increasing the output and speed to market of a range 
of new products, providing a robust scalable set of platforms and 
IZA World of Labour knowledge hub (http://wol.iza.org)
In addition to its focus on rights and services based projects, 
Bloomsbury Information division publishes the Bloomsbury  
Business list.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   12 14/06/2016   10:27:02 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
13
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
improving the strength, depth and geographical spread of our 
institutional digital sales team. Existing services like the award-
winning Berg Fashion Library, Drama Online and Bloomsbury 
Professional Online are proof that Bloomsbury can deliver high 
value, repeat-income digital resources; it is this capability that 
Bloomsbury 2020 seeks to grow dramatically. We are targeting 
revenues rising to £15 million and profits of £5 million from 
Bloomsbury Digital Resource Publishing by financial year 2021/22. 
The peak effect on our Income Statement is expected to be an 
extra £2 million of net cost in 2017/18 and on our cash flow an extra 
£1.7 million of outflow is expected in 2017/18. Cash payback on the 
investment is expected to be in the fourth full year, 2020/21. 
We announced in May 2016 a  reorganisation of the business into 
two divisions: Consumer and Non-Consumer, reflecting the core 
customers for our different operations. The Consumer division 
will be created by merging the Children’s trade and Adult trade 
businesses and from 1 June will be managed by Emma Hopkin, who 
is currently the Managing Director of our Children’s & Educational 
division. All other operations will be in the Non-Consumer division 
which will be managed by Jonathan Glasspool, who is currently 
Managing Director of our Academic & Professional division, 
reporting to Richard Charkin. Richard will remain on the Board; in 
addition to the Non-Consumer division he will focus on strategic 
growth areas including special interest and the Bloomsbury India 
business. He will continue full time until 28 February 2017, after 
which he will change to two days a week. This reorganisation will 
simplify our business, and lead to system and structural efficiencies 
as well as increase our customer focus and facilitate our digital 
expansion. 
Since the year end, Group revenues have been in line with our 
expectations, with the Children’s & Educational division very strong. 
In the current year our publishing programme includes Harry Potter 
and the Chamber of Secrets Illustrated Edition by J. K. Rowling and 
Jim Kay, two front list Sarah J. Maas titles, new cookery titles from 
Tom Kerridge with Tom’s Table and Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall 
with River Cottage A to Z, and the new edition of Fantastic Beasts  
& Where to Find Them with new content from J. K. Rowling. 
Bloomsbury continues its strategy of growing academic, 
professional, special interest and educational revenues. Bloomsbury 
has shown that its Academic & Professional intellectual property 
in particular is capable of creating significant value when sold in 
a digital format. Our exclusive content can be monetised as an 
individual title, in collections, as a subscription or through perpetual 
access. We will be accelerating growth in this area, leveraging 
content across both Bloomsbury and third parties, providing 
significant opportunities to create more value from these assets. 
The Bloomsbury 2020 strategy to grow revenues from academic 
and professional digital resources for academic libraries worldwide 
will lead our repositioning in the market from a primarily consumer 
publisher to a digital B2B publisher, whilst continuing our long 
track record of huge bestsellers in the adult and children’s markets, 
which remain a very important part of Bloomsbury’s mission.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   13 14/06/2016   10:27:02 14 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Group Strategic Summary
Bloomsbury is a global fully integrated publisher of books and other 
media for general readers, children, students, researchers and 
professionals. Bloomsbury offers authors access to these multiple 
markets in multiple formats throughout the world: in print, through 
e-books, through digital downloads and apps; in schools, in libraries, 
in universities, and in terrestrial and internet bookshops; with 
entrepreneurial teams in New York, London, New Delhi and Sydney 
serving all territories. 
Area of focus Reason for the focus Progress in the year
Growing non-consumer* 
revenues so that they 
match or exceed our 
consumer revenues
Non-consumer revenues have higher margins, 
are generally a more predictable revenue 
stream, are less reliant on the retail bookshop 
environment and have more digital opportunities. 
They are typically derived from our Academic 
& Professional and Information divisions and 
Educational and Special Interest books.
In January 2016 we acquired several family law 
publishing assets from Lexis Nexis and Jordan 
Publishing.
Non-Consumer products made up 47% of 
revenues in 2015/16, up from 39% in 2014/15.
Continuing acquisition 
of rights to publish 
outstanding works 
by undiscovered and 
established authors
Bloomsbury differentiates its brand by the quality 
of its publishing.
Bloomsbury titles won a significant number of 
prizes in the year– these are listed on pages 17  
to 22 of these accounts.
Expanding internationally 
in English language 
markets
This reduces the Group’s reliance on the UK 
market and, in particular, takes advantage of the 
biggest academic market worldwide in the US and 
the significant growth potential in India.
A full year of Osprey revenue has helped expand 
the Group’s presence internationally. Over 50% 
of Osprey’s revenue is generated outside the UK, 
principally in the US.
Revenues sourced from outside the UK grew by 
19% in the year and now account for over 35%  
of Group revenue (2014/15: 33%)
Creating and exploiting 
copyright and IP, 
including by licensing 
information databases to 
support major institutions 
and corporations
This reduces the Group’s reliance on consumer 
revenues and increases higher value B2B 
transactions.
IZA World of Labor website had a strong year of 
global engagement with policy makers and the 
media. A new publishing services contract was 
signed to digitalise and sell the Arcadian Library.
Benefiting from the digital 
opportunity
It expands the markets we are in and our revenue 
opportunities.
Bloomsbury titles available as e-books up 39% year 
on year to 22,000. Academic & Professional digital 
revenues increased by 24% on the prior year.
Delivering excellent 
service to our authors
Excellent service is core to attracting and keeping 
our authors.
We continue to monitor the service we provide 
authors via a monthly author survey. As a result 
we now offer all authors the ability to receive their 
royalty statements electronically by pdf. 
Key areas of focus and the progress we have made in the year are as follows:
* Non-consumer: This includes Academic & Professional, Bloomsbury Information, Education and Specialist titles (excluding Cookery) 
During the year the Group was organised as four worldwide publishing divisions supported by global functions. A review of these follows.
Our overall strategy is unchanged and is to grow a high quality 
global publishing business delivering high value to its authors and 
other contributors, readers and Shareholders.
We achieve this by:
 ✷ publishing authors and works of excellence and originality; 
 ✷ delivering professional services to those seeking publication; 
 ✷ combining tradition and technology to achieve excellence; and
 ✷ establishing solid profit streams.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   14 14/06/2016   10:27:02 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
15
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Recent Corporate Development Landmarks for Bloomsbury 
Date
Publishing division  
most affected Description
Bloomsbury 2020 
announced
May 2016 All Creation of Bloomsbury Digital Resource Publishing 
division to address £5 billion academic library market
Acquisition of Osprey 
Publishing Ltd
December 2014 Adult Special Interest Acquisition of a special interest publisher of military, 
heritage and natural history titles.
Acquisition of Hart 
Publishing Ltd
September 2013 Academic & Professional Acquisition of publisher of books and journals for 
the academic and professional markets in law.
US office move April 2013 All Relocated employees from various offices in the US 
into one single New York office.
Acquisition of Applied 
Visual Arts Publishing
June 2012 Academic & Professional Acquisition of a publisher for students and 
professionals in the applied visual arts.
Acquisition of Fairchild 
Books
March 2012 Academic & Professional Acquisition of a list of visual arts titles which 
augments Bloomsbury’s visual arts offering.
Sale of Bloomsbury 
Verlag GmbH
February 2012 Adult, Children’s & 
Educational
Sale of a loss making German subsidiary. 
Set-up of Bloomsbury 
India
February 2012 All Setting up Bloomsbury’s India publishing business. 
The business was launched in August 2012.
Acquisition of Absolute 
Press
September 2011 Adult Acquisition of a specialist cookery list. 
UK office move August 2011 All Relocated employees from various offices in London 
and Oxford into a single London office. This enables 
teams to work efficiently together under the One 
Global Bloomsbury structure.
Acquisition of 
Continuum 
International Publishing 
Group
July 2011 Academic & Professional Acquisition of substantial UK and US academic 
publisher which extends Bloomsbury’s UK academic 
publishing activities and provides a critical mass in 
the US from which to grow US sales.
One Global Bloomsbury March 2011 All Implementation of Group structure consisting of 
four worldwide publishing divisions supported by 
global functions.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   15 14/06/2016   10:27:02 16 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Academic & Professional
About the publishing division
The division has a growing portfolio of digital subscription products 
and will publish over 1,500 new titles this year. Significant investment 
has flowed into Bloomsbury Academic & Professional since 2008 
and significant growth has come through acquisitions of imprints 
and high quality lists in humanities and social sciences (Methuen 
Drama, Arden Shakespeare, Bristol Classical Press, Continuum 
International), applied visual arts (Fairchild Books, Berg Publishers 
and AVA Books) and law and tax (Tottel Publishing, Hart Publishing 
and a range of LexisNexis and Jordan family law publishing assets). 
Organic investment has been in digital publishing in services such 
as Bloomsbury Fashion Central, Berg Fashion Library, Bloomsbury 
Professional Tax and Law Online, the Churchill Archive and  
Drama Online.
Jonathan Glasspool 
Manager and Director:
Academic & Professional division
Jonathan joined Bloomsbury in 1999, was appointed to the Board 
as Executive Director in 2015 and now oversees the development of 
Bloomsbury’s Academic & Professional publishing business and our 
office in the USA. Previous roles include being a publisher at Reed 
Elsevier in Singapore, Melbourne and Oxford. He started his career 
at Cambridge University Press. He has an MBA with Distinction from 
Warwick Business School. 
Business model
Value generating activities Description
Academic book publishing in print and e-book 
formats 
Required study material for students of humanities, social sciences and applied 
visual arts. Mainly backlist, print and e-books, with a significant US weighting.
Digital academic services Online Institutional services e.g. Berg Fashion Library, the Churchill Archive,  
Drama Online, Bloomsbury Collections and Bloomsbury Fashion Central.
Professional book and online information 
publishing 
Online and print resources for qualified and trainee solicitors, barristers, 
accountants and tax practitioners.
Divisional facts
Revenue £32.7m
Revenue – UK £21.1m
Revenue – US £10.3 m
Revenue – Other territories £1.3m
Adjusted operating profit £3.2m
Adjusted operating margin 10%
Examples of key revenue drivers include:
 ✷ Numbers of students entering higher education in the US  
and UK and their adoption of textbooks and learning materials
 ✷ Expanding the range of ‘must have’ information products  
and services for professional and educational use and driving 
direct selling B2B of these to institutional purchasers such as 
law firms, accountancy practices, tax practitioners, and higher 
education libraries worldwide
Strategy for growth
 ✷ Growing the division via direct sales to institutions rather  
than via traditional third parties
 ✷ Increasing investment in digital annuity-based services rather  
than print products
 ✷ Bolt-on acquisitions that strengthen already-strong lists
 ✷ Expanding divisional sales in international markets
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   16 14/06/2016   10:27:03 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
17
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Medium-term targets Progress report
1 Number 1 independent humanities and social 
science publisher in Europe
Number 2 independent humanities and social sciences publisher in Europe.
2 Number 1 applied visual arts publisher  
in the world
Number 1 applied visual arts publisher in the world. With the acquisition  
of  Berg Publishers, Fairchild Books and AVA Books, the division is the largest 
textbook publisher in fashion studies in the world.
3 Contribute to Non-Consumer businesses being 
50% of Group revenue and 70% of Group 
profits before highlighted items
Non-Consumer products made up 47% of Group revenues in 2015/16  
(2014/15: 39%) and 56% of Group profits before highlighted items in 2015/16 
(2014/15: 56%).
4 Contribute to increase in digital revenues to 
40% of Non-Consumer division revenue
Digital revenues were 11% of Non-Consumer revenues (2014/15: 9%)
Social responsibility
Bloomsbury Academic & Professional publishes thousands of 
titles and millions of books each year that significantly contribute 
to improving learning outcomes of students, academics and 
professionals across the world. Its online resources are accessed by 
thousands of users every day. 
Through our business, we seek to publish works of excellence and 
originality and to provide talented authors who are often unknown 
with access to the market.
Title of book/author Prize
Bertrand Russell’s Bundle Theory of Particulars/ Gülberk  
Koç Maclean
Bertrand Russell Society Book Award: 2015 
Computable Bodies: Instrumented Life and the Human Somatic 
Niche/ Josh Berson
Association of American Publishers: PROSE Awards 2016 for language 
and linguistics
Divine Self, Human Self: The Philosophy of Being in Two Gita 
Commentaries/ Chakravarthi Ram-Prasad
Society for Hindu-Christian Studies: Hindu-Christian Studies  
Book Award
Ezra Pound’s Eriugena/ Mark Byron Ezra Pound Society Book Prize 2015 
Magical Musical Tour: Rock and Pop in Film Soundtracks/  
Kevin J. Donnelly 
Southwest Popular and American Culture Association:  
Peter C. Rollins Book Award 2016
Marlowe’s Literary Scepticism/ Chloe Preedy Marlowe Society of America: Roma Gill Prize 2015
Medical Negligence and Childbirth/ Doireann O’Mahony AIB Private Banking Irish Law Awards: Legal Book of the Year
Serbia and the Balkan Front, 1914/ James Lyon World War One Historical Association: Norman B. Tomlinson,  
Jr. Prize 2015 
Sustainable Building Systems and Construction for Designers/  
Lisa M. Tucker
American Society of Interior Designers: Joel Polsky Prize 2015
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time (Stage 
Adaptation)/ Simon Stephens
Drama Desk Awards: winner for multiple categories 2015 
The Tragedy of Fatherhood: King Laius and the Politics of 
Paternity in the West/ Silke-Maria Weineck
Modern Language Association: 23rd Annual Aldo/ Jeanne  
Scaglione Prize 
Visual Journeys Through Wordless Narratives/ Evelyn Arizpe, 
Teresa Colomer, Carmen Martínez-Roldán
Literacy Research Association: Edward B. Fry Book Award
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   17 14/06/2016   10:27:03 18 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Children's & Educational
About the publishing division
The division sells and markets titles to the global trade, education 
and mass market sectors in both print and digital. The trade list 
acquires books from both the UK and US markets and publishes 
titles for all ages from 0 to 16. Imprints include Bloomsbury Activity 
Books, Bloomsbury Children’s Books and Bloomsbury Spark, an 
e-first list for Young Adult readers. In the UK education market we 
publish under the Andrew Brodie, Bloomsbury Education and 
Featherstone imprints.
Known for the quality and prize-winning calibre of our books, we 
publish authors such as Neil Gaiman, John Green, Sarah J. Maas, 
Louis Sachar, and the Harry Potter novels by J.K. Rowling.
Emma Hopkin
Managing Director:
Children's & Educational division
Emma is responsible for all children’s and educational books 
globally. She joined Bloomsbury in March 2011 as Managing 
Director of the Children’s & Educational publishing division. 
Previously she was Managing Director of Macmillan Children’s 
Books. She has also held marketing roles at Pan Macmillan, 
Routledge and Houghton Mifflin. 
Business model
Value generating activities Description
Children’s activity books Books focused towards play e.g. puzzles, colouring, games and illustrated stories. 
Also published as a range of apps. 
Children’s trade publishing Both picture books, non-fiction and fiction in print and e-formats.
Educational publishing Print and digital learning materials for teachers.
Divisional facts
Revenue £41.8m
Revenue – UK £26.7m
Revenue – US £11.2m
Revenue – Other territories £3.9m
Adjusted operating profit £6.0m
Adjusted operating margin 14%
Examples of key revenue drivers include:
 ✷ Larger percentage ownership of world publishing rights  
for exploitation
 ✷ Strategic marketing campaigns for established and new brands
 ✷ The general economy and people’s disposable income can  
affect how many books they buy
Strategy for growth
Our objectives are to grow the lists by focused and global 
acquisition; to better exploit our backlist; to grow and build brands; 
to ensure strategic sales and marketing planning along with 
consumer community building; and to attract talent to the list whilst 
providing excellent author care for our published authors. 
Our ambition is to publish all mono and colour titles simultaneously 
in print and digital formats. We publish certain targeted apps.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   18 14/06/2016   10:27:04 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
19
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Medium-term targets Progress report
1 Bloomsbury Activity Books will be a leading, 
profit generating list
Sales steady with last year. Strategy ongoing. 
2 Bloomsbury Children’s Books will be known for 
author care, independent spirit and innovation
Continuing to attract and retain the best authors.
3 25% of sales are digital on trade lists 18% digital in US and 5% UK (2014/15: 15% US, 5% UK).
4 50% of sales trade front list illustrated 48% illustrated (2014/15: 42%).
Social responsibility
Bloomsbury Children’s & Educational publishes many books 
each year that contribute significantly to improving the literacy of 
children across the world. We believe books can open the minds of 
children to a world of possibility. 
We are happy in the year to 29 February 2016 to have supported the 
White House led Open eBooks initiative that gives underprivileged 
students access to e-books.
We worked with the National Literacy Trust on two major projects 
to help raise funds for the charity. The New Fiction Prize offered the 
opportunity of having a novel published by Bloomsbury and the 
winner was announced early in 2015. The winning book, Malkin 
Moonlight by Emma Cox, is set to be published this year. The second 
project focused on poetry – and finding future children’s poets – and 
asked entrants to create a funny poem about reading. The winning 
poem will be designed up as a poster sent out to all primary schools 
in the UK.
Bloomsbury also hosted a Reading for Pleasure roadshow at their 
offices where book/reading charities were given the opportunity to 
talk about their work and how Bloomsbury staff could get involved. 
Over 70 members of staff attended the roadshow and made 
pledges to support the promotion of reading for pleasure. 
Staff continue to volunteer to read with pupils at schools worldwide.
Title of book/author Prize
Because You’ll Never Meet Me/ Leah Thomas 2016 William C. Morris Award finalist
Epic Book of Epicness/ Adam Frost Blue Peter Book with Facts award 2015
The Imaginary/ A.F.Harrold and Emily Gravett Book Design and Production award 2015: Overall and Children’s 
Category Winner
The Imaginary/A. F. Harrold. Illustrated by Emily Gravett Kirkus Reviews: Best Middle Grade Books of 2015
Queen of Shadows (Throne of Glass #4)/ Sarah J. Maas Goodreads winner: Best YA Fantasy and Science Fiction of 2015
The Valley/ Richard Benson
James Tait Black Prize: Biography category
The Valley/ Richard Benson
Portico Prize: Non-fiction
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   19 14/06/2016   10:27:04 20 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Adult
About the publishing division
The division publishes globally in English fiction, biography, general 
reference and special interests such as sport, cookery, natural history 
and military history. The main publishing operations are based in  
New York and London and coordinated by experienced editorial  
and publishing managers so that authors and their works are 
supported throughout the world. 
Apart from household names such as Khaled Hosseini, Elizabeth 
Gilbert, William Boyd and Margaret Atwood, we are also proud  
to be the publishers of the Reed’s Nautical, Wisden Cricketers’  
and Whitaker’s Almanacks as well as the great institution that is  
Who’s Who.
Richard Charkin
Managing Director:
Adult division
Richard is an Executive Director on the Board responsible for the 
Adult general/specialist publishing, which includes a number of 
significant innovative digital and publishing, services projects, 
and for Bloomsbury India. He joined the Bloomsbury Board as an 
Executive Director in October 2007 following ten years as Chief 
Executive of Macmillan Publishers. 
Business model
Value generating activities Description
Best-selling fiction High volume titles sold as e-books and in print.
Sport, cookery, natural history Subject specific titles typically where communities of interest allow more precise 
marketing.
Divisional facts
Revenue £46.0m
Revenue – UK £29.0m
Revenue – US £13.2m
Revenue – Other territories £3.8m
Adjusted operating profit £2.7m
Adjusted operating margin 6%
Examples of key revenue drivers include:
 ✷ Winning major literary prizes can help drive the sales for the 
winning book as can exceptional media coverage such as tie-in 
movies or TV programmes
 ✷ The general economy and people’s disposable income can  
affect how many books they buy
 ✷ Growth in English language can drive international sales
Strategy for growth
Our objectives are to be the publisher of choice for the very best 
authors and the very best books in both digital and print formats. 
We pay particular attention to editorial support for authors 
both during the publication process and thereafter, the highest 
standards of production and presentation, and creative and 
innovative marketing. 
Our editorial and marketing teams work together so that we can 
genuinely offer global publishing reflecting the changing nature  
of our markets and the media that alert readers to books.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   20 14/06/2016   10:27:05 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
21
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Medium-term targets Progress report
1 Number 1 UK publisher of choice in cookery, 
sport and natural history
Number 1 in sport, Number 3 in cookery, Number 2 in natural history  
(Nielsen Bookscan).
2 Top ten in quality fiction worldwide Number 6, 48% revenue growth over the year.
3 Destination for quality authors Continuing to attract and retain the best authors.
4 25% of sales are digital 14% digital (2014/15: 13%).
5 50% of sales are backlist 45% backlist (2014/15: 36%).
Social responsibility
The Bloomsbury Adult team is passionate about helping authors to reach readers and helping readers to find the books they need or want. 
The level of sales of our books is a measure of our contribution to achieving our social responsibility aims.
Title of book/author Prize
A Place on Earth: Scenes from a War/ Anjan Sundaram Frontline Club Award
The Sack/ Namwali Serpell Caine Prize for African Writing
A Spy Among Friends/ Ben Macintyre Elizabeth Longford Prize for Historical Biography
A Year at Otter Farm/ Mark Diacono Andre Simon Food Book of the Year
Alone: The Triumph and Tragedy of John Curry/ Bill Jones Cross British Sports Books Awards: Outstanding Sports Writing
Based on a True Story/ Delphine de Vigan Prix Goncourt Des Lyceens
Benares/Atul Kochhar Gourmand Awards: Best Indian Cookbook
Bloomsbury Gourmand Awards: Best Big Cookbook Publisher in the  
World for 20 Years
Can’t We Talk About Something More Pleasant?/ Roz Chast Heinz Award: Arts and Humanities
Can’t We Talk About Something More Pleasant?/ Roz Chast National Book Critics Circle Award 2014: Autobiography
Can’t We Talk About Something More Pleasant?/ Roz Chast Reuben Award 2015: Outstanding Cartoonist of the Year
Can’t We Talk About Something More Pleasant?/ Roz Chast Books for a Better Life Award 2014: Inspirational Memoir
Cuckoo/ Nick Davies British Birds/British Trust for Ornithology
Dabbous/ Ollie Dabbous British Book Design and Production Awards
Dreamland/ Sam Quinones National Book Critics Circle Award
Elizabeth’s Bedfellows/ Anna Whitelock Pen/Jacqueline Bograd Weld Award for Biography
Fives and Twenty Fives/ Michael Pitre New Orleans Public Library Choice Award 2014
Frostgrave: Fantasy Wargames in the Frozen City Beasts of War Awards: Best Miniatures Game
Joint winner: Alison MacLeod Eccles British Library Writer in Residence Award
Lifted – The Great Nothing/ Karim Dimechkie Honourable Mention for the Pen/Hemingway Award for Debut Fiction
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   21 14/06/2016   10:27:05 22 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Adult
Title of book/author Prize
Mecca/ Ziauddin Sardar Ramnath Goenka Award for Excellence in Journalism 2015: Non-
fiction books
Mr Mac and Me/ Esther Freud East Anglian Book Award: Fiction Category
Return of a King/ William Dalrymple Kapuscinski Prize
Rivers/ Nigel Holmes and Paul Raven British Ecological Society Marsh Book of the Year Award
Scribe/ Bob Ryan New England Book Festival Grand Prize
Tennessee Williams/ John Lahr Sheridan Morley Prize
The Confessions of Frances Godwin/ Robert Hellenga Society of Midland Authors Awards: Adult Fiction
The Crusades of Cesar Chavez/ Miriam Pawel 2015 Robert F. Kennedy Book Award
The Crusades of Cesar Chavez/ Miriam Pawel Gold Medal for California Book Awards: Non-fiction
The Crusades of Cesar Chavez/ Miriam Pawel Robert F. Kennedy Book Award 2015
The Lagoon/ Armand Marie Leroi London Hellenic Prize
The Lagoon/ Armand Marie Leroi Runciman Award
The Man Who Walked Away/ Maud Casey St. Francis College Literary Prize 2015
The Seahorse/ Mitch Tonks and Mat Prowse Gourmand Awards: Best Barbecue Cookbook
The Sixth Extinction/ Elizabeth Kolbert LA Times Book Award for Science and Technology
The Sixth Extinction/ Elizabeth Kolbert Pulitzer Prize: General Non-Fiction
The Sunlit Night/ Rebecca Dinerstein 2015 Edward Lewis Wallant Award (University of Hartford) 
The Two Hotel Francforts/ David Leavitt Stonewall Honor Book: Literature Category 2015
The Valley/ Richard Benson James Tait Black Prize: Biography Category
Thirty-One Nil: On the Road with Football’s Outsiders/ James 
Montague 
Cross British Sports Books Awards: Football Book of the Year
Whirlwind/ John Ferling Fraunces Tavern Museum Book Award
World Without Us/ Mireille Juchau Victorian Premier's Literary Awards
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   22 14/06/2016   10:27:05 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
23
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Bloomsbury Information
About the publishing division
The division helps external partners inspire, inform and engage 
their audiences by providing them with innovative content, 
marketing and publishing services. Its offerings and activities cover 
the development of IP-rich digital knowledge hubs; large-scale, 
multi-year digital content and community platforms provided as 
a full service; publishing, management and consultancy services; 
digital archive platforms and services; and content creation and 
licensing, customised for other organisations. The division acts as 
an incubator for trialling new business models and product and 
service ideas; it also publishes the Bloomsbury Business list.
Vafa Payman
Director:
Information division
Vafa joined Bloomsbury in 2011 and was appointed Director of 
Bloomsbury Information in 2015. He was previously Director of New 
Media and Video Publishing at Oxford University Press and has 20+ 
years’ experience of business, development and digital leadership 
for global companies. 
Business model
Value generating activities Description
Content services New and existing Bloomsbury content curated and customised for use by clients 
and partners in their marketing and communications activities.
Publishing services Range of end-to-end publishing services, digital and print, provided to 
corporations and organisations.
Consultancy and management services Provided to non-publishers to advise on, implement and manage publishing 
strategy and projects.
Business publishing Growing list of business and management thought leadership and best practice, 
published in digital and print.
Divisional facts
Revenue £3.2m
Revenue – UK £3.1m
Revenue – US and other £0.1m
Adjusted operating profit £1.2m
Adjusted operating margin 38%
Strategy for growth
Our objective is to explore and secure business in areas beyond 
traditional book publishing, leveraging Bloomsbury’s expertise and 
its IP, which provides significant operating profit growth.  
The division’s recent successes are in providing content marketing 
and publishing services. We will continue to focus on providing 
these content and publishing services to other organisations; to 
explore and secure effective routes to new markets; to innovate 
and incubate new digital offerings; and to continue to expand 
Bloomsbury’s reach into untapped profitable areas. 
Social responsibility
The Bloomsbury Information division develops innovative products 
and services utilising Bloomsbury’s publishing skills and literary 
content. This broadens the channels through which Bloomsbury 
publishes content of excellence and originality. 
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   23 14/06/2016   10:27:06 24 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Group Overview
Group functions
Under the One Global Bloomsbury structure, the process driven Group functions are service providers to the global publishing divisions 
and are key to the internal control framework of the business. The following provides an outline of the main Group functions and the 
interplay with the business model.
Group function Description of service to the Group Contribution to strategic aims
Sales and Marketing
Kathleen Farrar is Group Sales and 
Marketing Director and joined 
Bloomsbury in 1998. She began her 
publishing career in Sydney, Australia 
and has held various senior sales and 
marketing roles
Provide sales and marketing services to the 
Group across, print, e-books and digital 
platforms
Manage marketing budgets to maximise  
ROI across the Group
Deliver profitable sales across retail and 
wholesale channels
Manage "One Global Bloomsbury" sales and 
marketing campaigns and deliver global 
sales and marketing KPIs
Provide professional and excellent author 
care across all divisions
Maximise profits from all sales channels and 
regularly review pricing in print and digital 
to increase net revenue
Production
Louise Cameron is Group Production 
Director and joined Bloomsbury 
through the acquisition of Continuum 
International Publishing in 2011. She 
began her career in publishing in 1988 
and has held various senior production 
and editorial roles
Cost-efficient on-time delivery of high 
quality print and digital product for sale 
globally
Production-editorial operations design, 
documentation and management
Margin optimisation through Group-
based tender processes for prepress, 
manufacturing and freight, and through 
efficient operations
Support of digital publishing strategy 
through design and management of XML-
first workflows, with allied future proofing  
of content and IP storage
Finance
Wendy Pallot is Group Finance Director 
and a Bloomsbury Executive Director  
(see page 42 for biographical details)
Providing finance and royalty services to  
the Group
Accurate transaction processing, quality 
financial reporting and business planning 
to enable good decision making across the 
business. 
Improving author care through excellent 
royalty services.
Kathleen Farrar
Group Sales and Marketing Director
Louise Cameron
Group Production Director
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   24 14/06/2016   10:27:07 www.bloomsbury.com
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY  INFORMATION
25
24695    14 June 2016 10:24 AM    Pass for Press
Stock Code: BMY
Financial Review
I
n 2015/16 Bloomsbury increased sales by £12.6 million to 
£123.7 million generating £13.0 million of profit before tax 
and highlighted items (2014/15: £12.1 million).
The results for this year largely reflect:
 ✷ excellent revenue growth driven by the Children’s & 
Educational division with Harry Potter, Sarah J. Maas,  
Paper Towns;
 ✷ additional sales contribution of £5.7 million from Osprey 
Publishing, which we acquired on 22 December 2014, 
reflecting an extra ten months’ sales in the current year; 
Excluding Osprey, like for like Group sales grew by 6%, and 
like for like Group operating profit was flat, year on year;
 ✷ strong Group digital revenue, now 13% of book sales, with 
33% growth in revenues from digital platforms; and
 ✷ excluding the results of Osprey there was a reduction in year on 
year like for like sales in the Adult division of £4.4 million or 10%; 
results in the year ended 28 February 2015 included the success 
of major cookery titles as well as the release of the paperback of 
And the Mountains Echoed by Khaled Hosseini.
There have been no changes in accounting policies in the  
year, with the exception of the adoption of a number of new 
accounting standards which have not had a material impact  
on the Group’s results.
Summary of results
Year ended
29 February
 2016
£’m
Year ended
28 February
 2015
£’m
Year  
on year  
change
%
Revenue 123.7 111.1 11%
Operating profit margin before highlighted items 11% 11% -3%
Net operating cash flow 5.0 10.2 -51%
Effective tax rate 6.3% 8.9% -29%
Profit before tax and highlighted items 13.0 12.1 8%
Profit before tax 10.4 9.6 8%
Diluted EPS before highlighted items 15.24p 14.73p 3%
Diluted EPS 12.93p 11.90p 9%
Net cash 5.2 10.0 -35%
Revenue   £m Adjusted Operating  
Profit*   £m
123.7
111.1
109.5
94.5
2013 2014 2015 2016
97.3
2012
13.1
12.1
12.0
11.7
2013 2014 2015 2016
11.8
2012
* Revenue and operating profit are for 12 months ended 28/29 February for the years 
stated. Operating profit is stated before highlighted items. On 28 February 2012 the 
Company sold Bloomsbury Verlag, its subsidiary in Germany, following a strategic decision 
to concentrate on English language publishing. Results for 2011/12 exclude this subsidiary.
Bloomsbury Publishing AR2016 Strategic and Governance.indd   25 14/06/2016   10:27:08
