 Financial Year 2016 was a pivotal year for the online advertising 
industry in general and blinkx in particular.  Consolidation dominated 
 supply side players seeking to complete end-to-end technology 
 scale challenges. Consumer privacy and concerns about supply 
quality placed additional pressure on the ecosystem as advertisers 
 challenges, digital advertising spend projections remain strong, 
 programmatic trading. The Company’s investment in Core product 
areas, integration achievements and actions to streamline operations 
place blinkx in a position of strength and differentiation in this 
dynamic environment.
During this past year, blinkx consolidated its offerings under a new 
brand, RhythmOne, which allowed the Company to make inroads 
with advertisers and brands looking for turnkey, cross-device 
solutions at scale. The Company actively focused on integration and 
investment in its Core mobile, video and programmatic offerings, 
which have grown from 50% of revenues in FY2015 to over 70% in 
FY2016. The Company successfully aggregated supply through its 
 its owned and operated web properties, and direct relationships with 
publishers and app developers.  The platform is also one of the few 
 their digital marketing investments. 
In addition to a strong, integrated product offering, the Company 
has also taken deliberate steps to drawdown on historical products 
that were considered Non-Core to future growth.  As a result, 
 the expense of revenue associated with Non-Core streams. This 
operating discipline enabled the Company not only to preserve cash 
in an uncertain industry environment but, more importantly, build 
 future as we continue to diligently streamline operations, develop 
innovative products and focus on our mission to be the dominant 
provider of quality digital audiences, across devices, at scale. 
The entire blinkx team deserves recognition and praise for their 
 over the past year, which have helped to re-position the Company 
 During the year, blinkx also made several executive hires in product, 
sales, technology and marketing, who will play a critical role in 
driving future growth. This past year, the Board continued to bolster 
 was pleased to announce the appointment of Ms. Andy Cunningham 
as an independent Non-Executive Board member.  She brings 
 management and strategic communications. Concurrently, after 
almost nine years on the Board (eight as Chairman), Mr. Anthony 
Bettencourt stepped down from the Board.  The Company is grateful 
for his service and invaluable contributions to the Company over  
the years.
I would like to offer my thanks to all our shareholders, both private 
and institutional, as well as our customers, employees and partners, 
for their support of blinkx during this transformative year. The 
Board continues to be inspired by monumental changes that blinkx 
and the management team successfully executed during FY2016 
 I am enthusiastic about the near- and long-term prospects for 
the Company and its shareholders, and am looking forward to a 
successful FY2017.
Raj Chellaraj 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
blinkx plc 
16 May 2016
Raj Chellaraj 
Chairman of the Board  
of Directors
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
5
