 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 201 6
08
CEO’S ST A TEMENT
Throughout 2016 we maintained a 
disciplined budget, whilst strengthening 
our technical and commercial case and 
continuing with our efforts to farm-out 
the Company’s Falkland Islands project. 
The year-end cash balance of $9.65 million 
(31 December 2015: $14 million) was 
impacted by significant changes in the US 
Dollar-Sterling exchange rate. Most of the 
Company’s funds are held in Sterling to 
reflect its ongoing expenditures. The drop in 
the value of the pound, resulted in a nearly 
$2 million reduction in the reported cash 
balance and increased the loss by the same 
amount. The 2016 Administrative expense 
of $1.74 million, comparing favourably 
against the previous year ($1.97 million in 
2015), partially reflects the impact of the 
exchange rate. 
Borders & Southern’s objective is to be a 
successful explorer, finding hydrocarbons 
and monetising them for the benefit of all 
its shareholders and stakeholders. The 
first stage was realised in 2012 when we 
announced a significant, liquids rich, gas 
condensate discovery (Darwin). Subsequent 
technical analysis proved the scale of 
the discovery. Management’s current 
un-risked P50 Best Estimate resource is 
3.5 tcf of wet gas in place with 360 million 
barrels of recoverable condensate. 
The second stage, of monetising the 
discovery, has been slower in achievement 
as competent partners are sought to help 
fund Darwin’s appraisal and development. 
Our ability to deliver on this has been 
impacted by the 2014 fall in oil price and the 
dramatic reduction in capital expenditure 
by the industry in the subsequent period. 
During the last year, the oil price has made 
a modest recovery, underpinned by OPEC’s 
agreed cuts in production. As a response, 
many of the large and mid-sized companies, 
who have spent the last couple of years 
reducing their costs and strengthening 
their balance sheets, are now considering 
growth objectives again. This gives us 
grounds for optimism that we can complete 
a successful farm-out and get back to an 
operational phase and the appraisal drilling.
We believe that the Darwin discovery 
and its surrounding exploration portfolio 
compares very favourably against other 
global opportunities. Our technical 
and commercial work during 2016 was 
directed to test our project’s commercial 
competitiveness. Through facilities 
engineering studies and reservoir modelling 
we demonstrated that the break-even oil 
price for an initial 270 million barrel FPSO 
phased Darwin development would be 
$40 per barrel. If the 25% contingency 
included within the estimated $1.36 billion 
capex is reduced, through more detailed 
engineering work, the break-even oil price 
would be appreciably lower. The attractive 
economics are largely influenced by the 
Falkland Islands Government’s fiscal terms 
and the requirement for only a limited 
number of development wells due to the 
laterally continuous, high quality reservoir 
and extremely mobile hydrocarbon phase.
HOWARD OBEE
CHIEF E XECUTIVE
The robust economics and 
compelling sub-surface  
case give us a real sense of 
optimism for progressing 
Darwin through to a 
successful development
HOWARD OBEE, CHIEF E XECUTIVE
Over the last few years global exploration 
success rates have decreased significantly. 
Discovery volumes have been skewed 
towards dry gas, with new large liquids finds 
being relatively scarce. In this context, 
the Darwin condensate is an important 
resource. Through meticulous technical 
and commercial work, we have continued 
to take risk out of the project, to enhance 
its attractiveness to third parties. At 
the same time, we have matured the 
Company’s exciting prospect inventory, 
which provides significant scope to add 
to the discovered volumes. As previously 
reported, management’s un-risked P50 
Best Estimate recoverable resource for 
near-field prospects (not including Darwin), 
those located within a 15km radius of the 
discovery well, exceed 1 billion barrels. Many 
of these prospects are supported by seismic 
amplitude anomalies and are considered 
by management to be relatively low risk. 
The largest prospect within the near-
field inventory and the current most 
likely candidate for an exploration well, 
following Darwin appraisal, is Sullivan. 
Stratigraphically older than the Darwin 
reservoir, in a section not yet penetrated by 
a well, the prospect is defined by a strong 
seismic amplitude anomaly measuring 
120 square kilometres. The AVO response 
is very similar to that associated with 
the Darwin discovery. If this anomaly 
does represent another gas condensate 
accumulation, then Management’s 
un-risked P50 Best Estimate volumes 
comprise 5.6 tcf of gas in place with 473 
million barrels of recoverable condensate. 
In addition to the near-field prospects, 
significant exploration potential exists in the 
rest of the Company’s acreage in a range of 
structural and stratigraphic prospects. The 
scale and quality of the prospect inventory 
will provide considerable growth options 
for the Company in years to come. But in 
the near term, we will maintain our capital 
discipline during this extended period of 
low oil price and continue to refine and 
advance our technical understanding of 
the sub-surface. However, the principal 
focus remains the farm-out and attracting 
funds for the appraisal of Darwin.
HOWARD OBEE
CHIEF E XECUTIVE
18 May 2017
