 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc  
Annual Report & Accounts 201 6
10
Borders & Southern recognises that an 
effective Board facilitates the efficient 
discharge of the duties imposed by law on 
Directors and contributes to the delivery 
of the Company’s strategic objectives. 
Accordingly, Borders & Southern has 
structured its Board so that it:
• has a proper understanding of, and the 
competencies to deal with, the current 
and emerging issues in the Company’s 
business; 
• exercises independent judgement; and
• effectively reviews and challenges 
management’s performance.
 
The Board currently comprises the 
Chairman, two Executive Directors and  
one Non-Executive Director. Each of 
the Executive Directors has extensive 
knowledge of the oil and gas industry 
combined with general business and 
financial skills. All of the Directors bring 
independent judgement to bear on issues  
of strategy, performance, resources, key 
appointments and standards. The Board 
meets regularly throughout the year and all 
the necessary information is supplied to the 
Directors on a timely basis to enable them  
to discharge their duties effectively. 
All Directors retire by rotation.
I regularly review the composition and 
structure of the Board to ensure it both 
meets industry good practice and is fit for 
purpose given where the Company is in 
terms of its development and scale.
MY ROLE AS CHAIRMAN
I was appointed Chairman of the Company 
at its inception. As Chairman, I am 
responsible for the effective running of  
the Board and for ensuring that it plays  
a constructive role in the development of 
the Company. Together with the Chief 
Executive Officer, I also set and run the 
agenda for Board meetings. 
ROLES OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE 
DIRECTOR
Nigel Hurst-Brown brings a wealth of 
business experience to the Board and its 
Committees. He provides independent 
views on the Company’s performance, 
operations and strategy. 
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Board has a Remuneration Committee 
comprising two Non-Executive Directors. 
The members of the Remuneration 
Committee and their attendance at 
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
HARRY DOBSON
NON-E XECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
Borders & Southern is 
committed to acting 
responsibly in all of its 
business activities
HARRY DOBSON
NON-E XECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
meetings of the Remuneration Committee 
during 2016 are detailed in the Directors’ 
Report.
The strategy of the Remuneration 
Committee is to ensure the Company: 
• remunerates fairly and responsibly. 
Borders & Southern’s policy is to ensure 
that the level and composition of 
remuneration for all employees is 
competitive and reasonable;
• includes both short term and long term 
performance-based components in its 
remuneration practices; and
• benchmarks its remuneration with 
comparable companies.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Board has an Audit Committee 
comprising two Non-Executive Directors. 
The members of the Audit Committee and 
their attendance at meetings of the Audit 
Committee during 2016 are detailed in the 
Directors’ Report.
The objectives of the Audit Committee  
are to ensure:
• the accuracy and integrity of the financial 
statements and related disclosures;
• the keeping of adequate books, records 
and internal controls;
• the auditor is independent and is qualified 
and its performance is monitored; and
• compliance with legal and regulatory 
requirements.
INSURANCES
The Company has taken out Directors’ and 
Officers’ insurance that provides insurance 
cover for all Directors and senior officers  
of the Company. This insurance is reviewed 
annually.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
At this stage in its development, the 
Company is focusing on the development  
of its existing Darwin discovery. As and 
when the Company moves into production, 
financial, operational, health and safety and 
environmental KPIs will become relevant  
and will be reported and measured  
as appropriate.
The Directors do, however, closely monitor 
certain financial information, in particular 
overheads and cash balances, as set out  
in the CEO’s statement.
HARRY DOBSON
NON-E XECUTIVE CHAIRMAN
