 Annual Report 2016
04
Chairman ’s Statement
John Coleman Chairman
Bonmarché’s fundamental proposition 
is to be the destination multi-channel 
retailer for women who want age 
appropriate, stylish, quality clothing 
at fantastic prices with outstanding 
service. Whilst the year was challenging, 
we see strong ongoing demand for what 
we offer, and those challenges have 
helped us focus on the need to increase 
our pace of continuing improvement. 
We have put in place the strategy and 
the capability to achieve this.
Performance for the year 
It was an unusually difficult year. 
The external trading environment was 
particularly tough; the shopping habits 
of Bonmarché’s customers are significantly 
influenced by weather, and for much of 
FY16 it gave them little reason to make 
seasonal purchases, which anecdotally 
has been reflected in the performance 
of other similar retailers. 
I believe that we have learned important 
lessons from last year and are now 
focused on implementing self-help 
measures to improve our performance. 
We are also ensuring that we adapt to 
the rapidly changing way our customers 
see the world – their lifestyles, fashion 
preferences and ways of browsing 
and shopping.
We placed much emphasis during 
the period on continuing to develop 
the Bonmarché brand and bringing it 
to the attention of new customers. The 
majority of our stores are now fronted by 
updated fascias showing new branding, 
and we ran a TV advertising campaign 
during the autumn. ‘Bonmarché’ continues 
to be the focus of this brand development, 
and I am delighted that TV fashion 
presenter Mark Heyes will be working 
with us as an ambassador to help tell new 
customers about us, whilst reinforcing the 
brand’s credentials with existing customers. 
Improvement to the product range 
will continue to be pivotal, and I am 
delighted that Geraldine Higgins joined 
us as Product Director in January of 
this year to lead that process.
During last year, we also started 
to focus on and plan a number 
of projects to modernise business 
processes and practices, and improve 
the capability of our people and 
systems. The implementation of this 
business change process will begin 
this year, and will be a key enabler of 
the successful delivery of the other 
parts of our wider strategy.
The financial position of the business 
continues to be very sound, with no net 
debt and a balance sheet which provides 
a stable platform for the future.
Bonmarché’s employees have worked 
tirelessly, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank them for their 
continued support and hard work. 
The Board
On 16 December 2015, we announced 
that Beth Butterwick would be leaving 
the Company. Beth’s contribution to 
Bonmarché has been highly valued and 
I would like to express my thanks for her 
hard work since joining in 2011. Beth will 
leave later in 2016 and I wish her well in 
her future endeavours. I am delighted 
that Helen Connolly will be joining the 
Company to lead the business in its 
next phase of development. Helen has 
extensive relevant retail experience, most 
recently working at Asda, where she was 
Senior Buying Director for the George 
clothing business. Helen will join the 
Company and the Board later in the year. Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
05
There have been further changes 
to the Board since the end of the 
financial year. To support our effective 
governance as we embark upon the 
business change programme noted 
previously, Mark McClennon joined 
us as an independent Non-executive 
Director on 8 April 2016. Mark is 
currently Global Vice President for IT 
at Unilever plc, and I believe that we will 
benefit enormously from his experience 
and wisdom as we progress with the 
change agenda. On the same date, 
Sun’s nominee director, Sergei 
Spiridonov, replaced Michael Kalb as 
a non-independent Non-executive 
Director. Michael will continue his 
association with the Company as a 
Board Observer.
Corporate governance
On 19 October 2015 the Company 
moved from the AIM market to the 
Official List of the Main Market of 
the London Stock Exchange. As 
a consequence we are required 
to report on how we have applied 
the principles of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code 2014 (the ‘Code’). 
Following the step up to the Official List, 
the Company was required to appoint 
an additional Non-executive Director 
to serve on the Board and to comply 
with the Code requirement in relation 
to committee membership. Mark 
McClennon was appointed as an 
independent Non-executive Director 
on 8 April 2016 and he has also joined 
the Remuneration, Audit and 
Nomination Committees. 
The Code’s ‘comply or explain’ approach 
permits listed companies some degree of 
flexibility to apply governance principles 
other than in strict accordance with 
the Code, for example, to take account 
of differences in business size and 
complexity. I believe that we are making 
good progress towards being fully 
compliant with the Code, led by our 
strong and experienced Board.
Dividend 
As a sign of its confidence in our ability 
to navigate these challenging times, 
the Board is pleased to recommend a 
final dividend of 4.64 pence per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year 
to 7.14 pence per share, a 5.0% increase 
over the previous year. If approved by 
shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2016, 
the final dividend will be paid on 
5 August 2016 to shareholders on the 
register on 24 June 2016.
Outlook
The market niche in which we compete 
continues to represent an opportunity 
to gain market share from less focused 
competitors. I believe in our strategy 
to deliver successfully our five pillars 
of growth (described further in the 
Chief Executive’s Report), and in the 
ability of our colleagues to execute it. 
The beginning of FY17 has continued to 
be tough due to poor weather; however, 
our full-year expectation is unchanged 
provided trading conditions normalise.
John Coleman
Chairman
10 June 2016
