 25229.04    9 March 2017 5:13 PM    PROOF 5 post self editing
Chief Executive’s review
“Our outlook is positive and 
we remain optimistic that 
we are well placed to take 
advantage of an upturn in our 
markets. ”
S.C. Harris l Group Chief Executive
Overview
Reported revenues for the Group were up 6% in 2016. However, 
the significant weakness in the oil & gas market and the knock-on 
effect on general industrial demand continued to exert considerable 
downward pressure on Group results. Group revenue on a like-
for-like basis
1
 was down 3.5%. Like-for-like sales to the energy 
markets were down 27%. Excluding the impact of these falling 
energy revenues, the Group had flat sales year on year. It should be 
noted that like-for-like revenues at the half year were down 6%. The 
improved performance for the full year was due to a notable pickup 
in activity in the fourth quarter. 
Civil aerospace in Western Europe was strong, particularly in 
the second half, while the North American business was more 
mixed as the supply chains for this sector continue to go through 
adjustment associated with the changeover of aircraft and engine 
platforms.
In automotive, car and light trucks built on the strong start to 2016, 
accelerating through the year such that the second half growth 
rate was 6% on a like-for-like basis. While the background market 
demand in the car and light truck market has moderated over recent 
months, Group revenues continue to grow on the back of new 
programme wins.
Specialist Technologies performed well overall, increasing their 
contribution to Group headline operating profit to 42%. While 
two of these technologies, Surface Technology and HIP Product 
Fabrication, continue to be hard hit by low levels of activity in the 
oil & gas sector, the remaining technologies once again showed 
good growth. Margins continued to exceed 30% in Specialist 
Technologies.
The Group’s headline operating margin
2
 was resilient at 16.6%. 
Headline operating profit declined 2% from £102.1m to £99.6m 
(13% at constant exchange rates). The robust margin performance 
was partly helped by favourable currency translation. However, 
the Bodycote Margin Model is helping to drive improvements and 
this, together with the improved flexibility the Group now has in its 
cost base and the favourable impact on mix coming from Specialist 
Technologies, combined to deliver margin resilience that would not 
have been possible in past downturns.
04 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04    9 March 2017 5:13 PM    PROOF 5 post self editing
We completed the acquisition of five plants in 2016, in line with 
our bolt-on strategy in Classical Heat Treatment. In some cases 
these acquisitions brought new capability into the Group, but in 
all cases they strengthened our network and enhanced our local 
cluster strength. They were all completed in the second half of the 
year with the majority in the final quarter and, correspondingly, had 
an immaterial impact on our Group result. They will, on the other 
hand, provide us with a small impetus as we enter 2017 . Annualised 
sales from the acquisitions will be around £20m, with average 
Group margins expected to be achieved in 2017 . We have a good 
acquisition pipeline and fully intend to continue to execute these 
acquisition opportunities provided we are confident that they will 
create further shareholder value.
Basic headline earnings per share were 37 .0p, a decline of 6%, 
principally reflecting a higher tax rate in 2016. Cash generation has 
remained strong, with 92% of headline operating profit turned 
into cash
3
 (2015: 80%). Indeed, even after spending £30m on 
acquisitions, capital investment of £63m (corresponding to 1 .1 
times depreciation), restructuring costs and £48m of dividends, 
the Group’s year end net cash position only reduced by £11 .2m 
to £1 .1m (2015: £12.3m). The Group continues to be in a strong 
financial position, with plenty of available financial headroom.
Strategic progress
We continued our strategy of investing in areas where we see  
high-growth potential but are always mindful of the Group’s 
minimum 20% hurdle rate for return on capital employed. 
Expenditure in the year included new facilities in the USA, Mexico, 
Poland and France, as well as continued expansion of our Specialist 
Technologies’ capacities and capabilities, and further deployment 
of the Group’s ERP programme. The strategy of preferential 
investment in Specialist Technologies continues to benefit the 
Group.
The Group’s strategy remains relevant and unaltered. The drive for 
operational efficiency in the more mature parts of the business, 
expansion of the Group’s footprint in rapid-growth countries and the 
focus on growth in the higher value-added businesses, particularly 
Specialist Technologies, are all designed to increase the quality of 
the Group’s earnings and create significant value. We have made 
further progress during this challenging year and remain readier 
than ever to respond to developments in our markets. 
Summary and outlook 
The Group delivered a robust performance in 2016 despite 
significant headwinds in some key business sectors. The speed and 
effectiveness of management’s actions, in addition to the continued 
focus on improved mix, resulted in resilient margins. 
While our business, by its nature, has limited forward visibility, we 
continue to demonstrate that we are capable of adapting with great 
agility to changes in market conditions. Our outlook is positive and 
we remain optimistic that we are well placed to take advantage of 
an upturn in our markets. 
The Board is confident that management’s continued focus on 
business improvements and execution of the Group strategy will 
generate good returns through the cycle.
S.C. Harris
Group Chief Executive
28 February 2017
1. Like-for-like year-on-year revenue growth rates are at constant exchange 
rates and exclude acquisitions, closed sites and the impact of the disposal 
of businesses.
2. Headline operating margin is defined as headline operating profit as a 
percentage of revenue.
3. Cash conversion is defined as headline operating cash as a percentage  
of headline operating profit.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
05 www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY
