  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 5
Chairman’s Statement
2016 has been a year of transition and transformation for BNN 
Technology. Back in Q1 2016, before we signed the ground-
breaking deal with Xinhuatong and the Xinhua News Agency, I 
could not have predicted the diversity and number of opportunities 
that the Group now has, nor the variety of business models we 
have developed. The business had an uncertain future following the 
suspension of the online lottery in China in March 2015. However, 
in 2016, we successfully pivoted from a lottery company into a 
Chinese technology company offering mobile payments, unique 
content and value-added services to millions of Chinese consumers 
and started the journey of BNN Technology becoming a Chinese 
technology portal. This transition was formalised in September by 
changing the name of the company to BNN Technology and our 
LSE AIM industry classification benchmark from “Gambling” to 
“Internet”.
In 2016, we successfully raised a total of £51.2 million to build out our 
technology platform, allowing us to enter into key partnerships and 
develop and establish our three business areas: payments, content, 
and value-added services. In a relatively short period of time, we 
have made significant strides in growing each of these areas, and 
we demonstrated the potential of our new business model in 
September 2016 with the first revenues coming from mobile top-
ups. Entry into mobile payments, using our platform and the strong 
business relationships we developed in China, has opened up access 
to more opportunities in payments and services, which we are eager 
to explore in 2017.
To support our ambitious business development goals, we formally 
started our application for a secondary listing on Nasdaq. This listing 
will allow us access to a deeper pool of capital and attract investors 
with a greater understanding of our business to support us in our 
ambition to become a leading technology player in China.
With all the changes the Group has experienced and the 
developments in the pipeline, we will need a strong and diverse 
Board to support the business. In 2016, we strengthened the Board 
with the appointment of three Directors: Scott Kennedy as Group 
Chief Financial Officer, current China CEO and COO Wei Qi, and 
Xinhuatong CEO Dong Jinhua as a non-executive director. Scott’s 
financial background brings to the Group stability and focus in the 
Finance area, while the introduction of Wei Qi and Dong Jinhua to 
the Board better reflects our market focus and provides cultural 
balance and valuable local expertise. In particular, the appointment 
of Dong Jinhua demonstrates the strength and long-term nature of 
the relationship and partnership between NewNet, Xinhuatong and 
BNN.
In December 2016, Robert Lerwill, Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, announced his retirement from 
his position. Robert has been on the Board since before the IPO 
of the company and has provided enduring support during BNN’s 
evolution. I would like to thank Robert for the major contribution he 
has made to BNN Technology and for his invaluable counsel to the 
Board on regulatory and compliance matters throughout his tenure. 
I wish him the very best and a happy and enjoyable retirement.
Given our transformation to a technology company, the tremendous 
opportunities that lie ahead and the tougher regulatory environment 
we will face in the US as a Nasdaq listed company, corporate 
governance is a constant priority. We are already well advanced in 
our search for a new Audit Committee Chair and additional non-
executive board members to provide the right mix of regional, 
regulatory and industry expertise to match the company’s 
development ambitions. With the help of our advisors, we are making 
a number of improvements to strengthen corporate governance and 
regulatory oversight to support the Group through its development 
in 2017 and beyond.
Looking back at the significant progress we have made in 2016 to 
transform our business, I am proud of what the Group has achieved 
thus far and I would like to thank all of the BNN team in the UK and 
China for their dedication and hard work. The Nasdaq listing and 
reinforced Board will bolster our confidence and ability to capitalise 
on the rapid growth of China’s mobile payment and ancillary 
services. I am very excited about the new content and services we 
have planned for 2017, as well as the opportunities ahead.
Lord Mancroft
Chairman
“
Lord Mancroft
I am very excited about the 
new content and services we 
have planned for 2017, as well 
as the opportunities ahead.
”
