 BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 16
Chief Executive
’
s Review
Over the past year, we have made great strides in the transformation 
of BNN into a Chinese technology, content and value-added 
services company and started our journey to becoming a Chinese 
technology portal. We have come a long way since our days as 
a specialist provider to the Chinese lottery industry, and as 
China has evolved, so has the company. We made many changes 
throughout 2016 – from the ground-breaking Xinhua deal, our 
strategic rebrand to BNN, to becoming a regional sponsor of 
FC Barcelona and proving our B2B strategy in mobile payments. 
Yet we have stayed true to our core strengths: we continue to 
leverage our highly scalable and robust technology platform and 
are working with our partners to develop value-added services 
and engaging content.
Strategy
Our vision is to become a leading Chinese technology portal with 
three key business areas: payments, value-added services, and 
content. We will continue to build out our technology infrastructure, 
diversify our revenue mix, offer more services, build out our 
database, as well as delivering engaging content to our partners.
Payments
On payments, we secured B2B contracts with businesses across 
31 provinces in China to facilitate mobile top-up payments. As of 
now, the vast majority of our payments revenue is currently from B2B 
transactions, which are extremely high volume, though low margin, 
but this allows us to demonstrate the strength of our technology and 
provides us with valuable customer data. We are looking to develop 
more B2B partnerships, as we expand the portfolio of payments and 
diversify our revenue mix. As we announced in December 2016, we 
had over RMB 1 billion of mobile top-up transactions being facilitated 
though our platform in the month of November 2016.
Whilst the B2B model is an important entry point for us to prove our 
concept and refine our offering for the B2C model, the B2C model 
is where we want to grow the business strategically in the mid-term, 
as it is higher margin and provides richer customer data than the 
B2B model. We announced in December 2016 that our technology 
partner NewNet had signed all 12 of the targeted provinces under 
the Xinhua News Agency-Xinhuatong partnership. We have been 
working hard to build the infrastructure to support B2C payments 
on the Xinhua News app and our mobile top-up business went live 
in 10 provinces in the first quarter of 2017. Whilst volumes are low 
at this time, we will be using the launch of the FC Barcelona content 
on the Xinhua app to begin an aggressive marketing campaign to 
advertise the payments functionality and convert readers of Xinhua’s 
news into active users of the payments platform. Xinhua confirmed 
that 140 million users had downloaded their news app by October 
2016.
Strategically we aim to grow the GTVs our platform fulfils, 
demonstrating the size and scope of our technology. In 2016 we 
fulfilled £289.6 million in GTV on our platform. Growing the GTVs, 
which is a leading indicator of revenue growth and growth in our data 
platform, is a key operating metric that the Board and management 
will be focusing on in 2017.
“
Darren Mercer
Our vision is to become a leading 
Chinese technology portal 
with three key business areas; 
Payments, value-added services 
and content
GROSS TRANSACTION VOLUMES (“GTV”)
£289.6m 
2015: £79.4m
REVENUE
£2.1 m 
2015: £5.5m
“  MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 17
Content
We continue to use our strong relationships with international 
football clubs to develop unique engaging digital content for our 
mobile partners. Football in China is seeing explosive growth 
spurred by President Xi Jinping’s mission for the country to qualify 
for, host and win a World Cup. BNN is supporting China in achieving 
this ambitious goal by bringing world famous football clubs together 
with grassroots Chinese footballers to foster social participation. The 
partnership with FC Barcelona (‘’FCB’’), to deliver FCB content on 
the sports channel of the Xinhua News app, and to run a series of 
football camps to train hundreds of young football players, is the 
latest example of our commitment to China.
Since we announced the FC Barcelona deal, we have been actively 
building the content platform and are expecting to launch the FCB 
content on the Xinhua News app in the coming weeks. FCB has 5.5 
million registered fans in China and we are hopeful both these fans 
and new ones will sign up, on our platform, for access to unique FCB 
content and for the chance to be trained by FCB coaches, or travel 
to train at FCB’s facilities in Barcelona. These are opportunities that 
are not available anywhere else in China, so we are confident that 
we will attract high volumes of consumers to access the content. 
We have also been working with various partners to organise the 
first amateur training camps and expect to deliver those before the 
end of June 2017. With the development and delivery of this mobile 
content, we expect to further diversify our revenue streams, as this 
allows us to generate advertising revenues for the Group.
Post year end we have announced an extension of the deal we did 
with Arsenal football club. This deal is similar in nature to the FCB 
deal, providing content, competitions, and coaching opportunities 
that will offer unique content and opportunities for Chinese 
consumers. We are also launching a fantasy football game, tied in 
with the Chinese Super League, one of the first games of its type in 
China. The content will go live in the second quarter of 2017 and we 
are confident we will see growth in active users over the year, as we 
promote the content across a number of media outlets throughout 
China and increase the volume of unique content and competitions.
Strategically we aim to grow the number of active users on our 
platform, and measuring and reporting the number of consumers 
that regularly access content on the sports content we have 
introduced on the Xinhua News app, will be a key operating metric 
for the Board and management team in 2017. The more we grow 
the user base, the greater amount of consumer data we collect and 
the more we can grow our advertising revenues. Some of the largest 
technology companies in the world, such as Facebook, Snapchat and 
Tencent, all have active users as a key operating metric, and as an 
emerging technology portal, we also see active user growth as key to 
measuring our performance and a leading indicator of future revenue 
growth.
Value-added Services
In 2017 we will be announcing some new and exciting services that we 
will be developing alongside new and existing commercial partners, 
subject to agreeing final terms and financing where necessary.
The first is our student services platform that was announced 
post year end, providing a one stop-shop for students to find jobs, 
develop their business ideas and attract funding for those ideas and 
financial services.
One of the key initiatives in China’s 13th Five-Year plan (2016-2020) 
is to promote education. The plan encourages the cultivation of 
students’ entrepreneurship and innovation capabilities and practical 
skills. It also emphasizes the need for recruitment reforms. One of the 
key government initiatives is to ensure that students who complete 
higher education are either successful in getting an appropriate 
job upon graduation, or successfully launching a new business. To 
help the government achieve this goal, we expect to sign key new 
partnerships to launch our student services platform initially in one 
province later this year, though we have aspirations to roll it out 
nationally. Our platform will have three core services;
1.  A recruitment portal that will connect university students 
with potential employers, providing robust verification of both 
student and employers credentials.
2.  A business incubator platform where students can seek 
information on how to develop their business ideas and source 
funding from angel investors or crowdfunding.
3.  A financial services platform that allows students to access 
financing to support them through their studies by purchasing 
expensive equipment such as mobile phones and laptops.
We are delighted to be working on such an important initiative and 
are confident this will drive further growth of active users on our 
technology platform.
The second services platform is a credit rating platform that we also 
announced post year end. This is a tremendously exciting opportunity 
for the company to participate in a market that has been described as 
“probably the largest untapped consumer finance market globally,” 
by the founder and chief executive of China Rapid Finance, Zane 
Wang, who spent years as the head of analytics at the credit arm 
of Sears, the American retailer. In the western world, the large 
established credit rating companies, such as Equifax and Experian, 
compile borrowing and repayment records to create credit ratings 
or scores. Lending institutions, including banks, rely heavily on those 
scores to make lending decisions for both companies and individuals. 
China lacks a direct equivalent of this and there are no established 
credit rating companies operating in the country. The central bank’s 
main database includes personal credit history data on less than a 
third of the country’s population.
Aligning ourselves with another critical government initiative, where 
the government has announced the intention to establish a centralised 
“social credit system” for all citizens and companies by 2020, we have 
announced that, following the recent placing, we now have sufficient 
funding to be able to begin building out a credit rating platform and 
hire the relevant technical expertise in this field. In addition to the 
initial build-out phase where we will invest heavily in people and 
technology over the next few months, we will be reaching out to, 
and working with a number of companies, as a technology partner, 
to provide them access to our platform and expertise and begin to 
develop the commercial side of the business. This is a tremendously 
exciting opportunity for the company and is one which will notably 
support growth of our data platform. It is also an opportunity which  BNN TECHNOLOGY
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
we feel will add considerable value to the Group over the coming 
months and years.
We look forward to keeping the market abreast of how these new 
services evolve over the coming months.
Fundraising and Strategic Partnerships
During 2016, we completed a total of £51.2 million in fundraising to 
support our growth into payments, data, and advertising, as well as 
welcomed a number of high quality institutional investors onto our 
shareholder register. With this additional capital, we have recruited a 
highly-experienced specialist data team with analytic and data mining 
experience to enrich product development and generate advertising 
revenue potential with our partners. We are now classified as an 
internet company on the London Stock Exchange, placing us within 
the appropriate peer group for our business model.
In 2016, we completed a strategic investment and agreed to 
transfer NewNet’s legacy lottery related assets into Xinhuacai, 
our joint venture with Xinhuatong. This is in exchange for a 10% 
stake in Xinhuatong, which holds the exclusive rights for payment 
facilitation services on the Xinhua News app. This strategic 
investment strengthens our relationship with Xinhuatong, offering 
us the opportunity to work with them on a number of future 
commercial initiatives, as well as allow us to benefit from the return 
of the Chinese online lottery market if, and when, the suspension is 
lifted. As of today, the Chinese online lottery market is still under 
temporary suspension by Chinese authorities.
Nasdaq
I am pleased to report that we submitted our formal application 
for a secondary listing on the Nasdaq in the fourth quarter of 2016, 
and that process is progressing well towards a Q3 2017 listing. We 
continue to work with the Nasdaq exchange, our legal and financial 
advisers and the US Securities and Exchange Commission on the 
application and we will appraise the market when we have further 
updates.
Financial Review
For the year ended 31 December 2016, the company reported 
revenue from continuing operations of £2.1 million and an operating 
loss of £16.5 million versus £5.5 million and £9.3 million in 2015. The 
gross transaction volumes for the group grew from £79.4 million in 
2015 to £289.6 million in 2016. Whilst revenue declined year on year, 
this reflects the fact the business has transformed from a lottery 
provider in 2015 to a technology company in 2016, with the majority 
of transactions relating to its new mobile payments business in the 
latter half of 2016.
In December, GTVs grew approximately 3% versus November but 
in January we saw the volume of transactions jump 20%. Overall, 
we have seen Q1 2017 GTVs grow to £413.4 million versus £269.5 
million in the fourth quarter of 2016 and we anticipate continued 
growth in 2017 as new services come on line through the year.
Administration expenses before exceptional items in 2016 were 
£15.9 million (2015: £9.0 million). A further £0.7 million of costs were 
charged to the income statement relating to the formal application 
for a secondary listing on Nasdaq in 2016 (2015: £0.7 million relating 
to the issue of warrants, settlement agreements and placing costs). 
These have been treated as exceptional. In 2015 we downsized 
corporate overheads, restricting expenses where we could given 
the change in regulation and suspension of the online lottery. In 2016 
expenses have increased reflecting business investment in a number 
of key commercial developments.
We have grown headcount across the organisation from 226 in 
2015 to 285 employees in 2016. This increase reflected the ongoing 
investment being made in our technology and data teams, and 
finance and marketing functions, as we prepare for the Nasdaq and 
operationalising our Xinhua contracts respectively. The increase 
in headcount is reflected in the increase in wages and salaries that 
increased £0.8 million, (18.3%) to £5.0 million in 2016. The signing 
of the Xinhua News Agency deal in April 2016, and the speed by 
which we signed up our twelve targeted provinces, plus the signing of 
advertising rights on the Xinhua app, resulted in expenses increasing 
by £3.5 million versus the prior year. Under the terms of the Xinhua 
deal, we pay a profit share to each Xinhua province, subject to an 
agreed guaranteed minimum, which varies across the provinces, and 
thus these will be ongoing costs we expect to incur in future years. 
These investments made in 2016 have provided a foundation for 
growth and also opened up new commercial opportunities with key 
partners for 2017 and beyond.
In August 2015 Beijing NewNet Science and Technology 
Development Limited (“NewNet”), a Company within the Group, 
entered into an agreement with a Chinese national to develop and 
promote online sports lottery products in the Chinese province 
of Shandong. As part of the agreement a new company was 
formed, Qingdao BaiFa Technology Co,Limited (“BaiFa”), of which 
the Group owned 50%. However, in October 2016, due to the 
uncertainty surrounding the resumption of the online lottery and 
the repositioning of the group as a technology company, the Group 
decided to dispose of its interests in BaiFa. The associate had a loss 
on disposal of £0.2 million.
At year end, BNN had £28.0 million in cash and cash equivalents (£4.0 
million in 2015). The £24.0 million increase in cash can be accounted 
for as a net inflow of cash from fundraising of £48.3 million less 
approximately £24 million of cash outflow. The utilisation of cash can 
be explained by the £16.5 million operating loss recognised in 2016, 
together with capital required to invest strategically in Xinhuatong and 
Longti totalling £3.3 million. In common with many foreign companies 
operating in China the debt funding model we have adopted to 
move capital from the UK into China, via an established Asian bank, 
means we were required to provide a cash security deposit, which at 
31 December 2016 was £2.8 million higher than the loans received. 
This cash is fully refundable, held on deposit by the Asian bank and 
will become unrestricted on repayment of the borrowings. We 
purchased property, plant, equipment and intangibles to an amount 
of £1.3 million, as part of the Group’s ongoing investment in our 
technology platform.
Post Year End
In the first quarter of 2017, we announced the launch of a motorist 
services platform, which will offer a range of consumer services 
to Chinese motorists from pre-paid petrol card top-ups to motor   MANAGEMENT  STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES  RISK MANAGEMENT  DIRECTORS’ REPORT  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 19
insurance, car park payments and car maintenance in the future. The 
motorist platform is another example of our efforts to diversify our 
revenue mix, as well as capture valuable consumer data to support 
further product development and additional revenue streams.
The market for motoring related services in China is substantial and 
set to grow. The market for pre-paid petrol cards is already large, 
worth RMB 2.4 trillion (£280.2 billion) in 2016 and forecast to grow 
to RMB 3.7 trillion (£399.3 billion) by 2020. Similarly, car insurance 
in China is forecast to grow from RMB 619.9 billion (£72.1 billion) in 
2016 to RMB 1 trillion (£116.3 billion) by 2020 and almost one-third 
of car insurance in China is purchased online. Car ownership rates 
are expected to increase from 75 vehicles per 1,000 people to 600 
per 1,000 by 2030, driven by rising incomes in China.
We announced a further content deal with Arsenal football club, 
further expanding our sports content portfolios and are confident 
this and new content deals we are seeking to sign in the first half of 
2017, will deliver active user growth and advertising revenues for the 
Group.
On 13 April 2017, we announced the intention to launch our student 
services platform and a funding of up to £25 million. We believe the 
Students “one-stop-shop” for their recruitment, financial services 
and business start-up needs will bring considerable user growth onto 
our platform, and will drive revenue growth for the business in the 
latter part of 2017. There are approximately 35 million students in 
higher education with around 8 million graduating each year. This 
is a group of people that are extremely comfortable with mobile 
technology, having grown up with it from a very young age, and 
frequent users of mobile content and platforms. Added to the 
fact that the 13th Five-Year growth plan for China, and specifically 
the Government, wanting to improve student’s chances of gaining 
employment, is providing a clear incentive for BNN to enter this 
space. We are confident this business area will add tremendous value 
to the Group.
We also announced the launch of our credit ratings business, where 
we will enter the market through the development of a credit rating 
platform and establishing a number of partnerships where, as a 
technology partner, we will begin to establish the commercial side 
of the business.
Outlook
China continues to invest heavily into upgrading its mobile internet 
infrastructure in rural areas, and it is expected that over 1 billion 
people will have smartphones by the end of 2017. In 2016, China’s 
mobile payment market was USD 5.5 trillion – almost 50 times 
greater than the US – and is expected to reach USD 13 trillion 
by 2019. Digital payment platforms are an important source of 
transaction and financial data that is increasingly being leveraged by 
payment companies for new fintech platforms, targeted advertising, 
product development and social credit scoring. It is these trends and 
other macro trends across China that we hope to take advantage of 
over the coming year.
During 2017, we will be broadening our B2B payments business, and 
building out our B2C service offering through our partnership with 
Xinhuatong and Xinhua News to take advantage of these digital 
payment trends. We also expect to utilise capital to take advantage 
of exciting new opportunities in our three key business areas: 
payments, value-added services, and content.
In 2017, we have already made a number of announcements marking 
further progress in our key areas of Payments, Content and Value-
added services, and expect to continue to do so. As we develop 
more services and content to drive user rates, we gather more 
data, assisting us with further product and content development to 
diversify our revenue base and attract new users to our partners’ 
platforms, increasing user stickiness. We anticipate that this virtuous 
cycle will drive the growth of our business.
2017 will be our first full year, as a fully-fledged technology company 
and we aim to grow into our ambition of being a Chinese technology 
portal. With the roll-out of content and advertising, extension of our 
payments platform and services, we anticipate growth in all three 
key performance indicators: revenue growth, gross transaction 
volumes and average active users. Like many high-growth emerging 
technology companies in a similar phase in their life cycle as to where 
we are, we will continue to see operating expenditure in the business 
grow, reflecting the necessary investments we will make in people 
and technology, especially as we look to build out our platform. 
Accordingly, the results for the first half of 2017 will reflect continued 
investment, whilst we remain hopeful we will generate an operating 
profit in the second half of 2017.
With the Nasdaq listing process underway, the establishment of our 
payments business in the second half of 2016, and the opportunities 
we have in the pipeline, I am extremely proud of the progress 
we have made in the last year and look forward to the exciting 
developments in 2017.
Darren Mercer
Group Chief Executive
