 25229.04    9 March 2017 5:13 PM    PROOF 5 post self editing
Chairman’s statement
“We remain well placed to 
take advantage of our strong 
position, whichever way our 
markets develop, and the long-
term prospects for the Group are 
excellent. ”
A.M. Thomson l Chairman
Overview
2016 was another challenging year for the Group. The oil & gas and 
other resources’ downturn persisted, with its knock-on impact on 
the capital goods market more generally. This resulted in a decline 
in revenue at constant exchange rates, partially offset by continued 
growth in Bodycote’s automotive and aerospace business. 
The Group, under the stewardship of Stephen Harris and his 
executive team, has once again successfully navigated the business 
through these tough conditions and we remain in a strong financial 
position.
Dividend
The Board considers the dividend to be an important component 
of shareholder returns and is proposing a final ordinary dividend 
of 10.8p, an increase of 4.9%, which will be paid on 2 June 
2017 , subject to shareholder approval at the 2017 Annual General 
Meeting (AGM). This brings the total ordinary dividend for 2016 to 
15.8p (2015: 15.1p) costing £20.5m which represents a year-on-
year increase of 4.6%. The Board is not recommending a special 
dividend this year, noting that, on top of the bolt-on acquisitions 
completed in 2016, there is a pipeline of further potential 
transactions, as well as other investments to support growth, which 
the Board believes will deliver superior returns for shareholders.
Governance and reporting
One of my key responsibilities as Chairman is to promote effective 
governance across the Group thus ensuring that we remain a 
successful and sustainable entity with good governance procedures 
practised across all 23 countries in which the Group operates. 
In order to enable shareholders to understand how this goal is 
achieved, we have provided a corporate governance statement on 
page 38 of this Annual Report. This describes how the governance 
structure underpins the delivery of the Group’s business strategy. 
On page 24 we have also outlined the principal risks that may 
prevent the business from achieving its objectives and the actions 
being taken to overcome these potential obstacles.
During the year we introduced a new Directors’ Remuneration 
Policy, following approval at the Group’s AGM in May 2016. Details 
of the arrangements for directors’ remuneration can be found in 
the Board report on remuneration on pages 54 to 73 of this Annual 
Report.
02 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 25229.04    9 March 2017 5:13 PM    PROOF 5 post self editing
Board matters
It is the responsibility of every board to ensure that there is an 
appropriate succession plan in place across the business, including 
for the Board of Directors. 2016 marked a number of changes to our 
Board, testing and proving the efficacy of our planning. 
It was with great sadness that we learned of Raj Rajagopal’s 
passing in November 2016. Raj, our Senior Independent Director, 
served on the Board from September 2008 until his retirement after 
the 2016 AGM. He was succeeded as Senior Independent Director 
by Ian Duncan, who also chairs the Group’s Audit Committee and is 
a member of the Board’s other committees.
I was delighted to welcome Pat Larmon to our Board in September. 
Pat joins us with a strong background in packaging products, 
originally as a business owner, and more recently as President 
of Bunzl’s North America business since 2003. His experience in 
running complex multi-site operations, as well as in completing and 
integrating multiple bolt-on acquisitions, will serve Bodycote very 
well.
David Landless, who demonstrated his dedication to Bodycote by 
agreeing to stay on as Group Finance Director in order to effect 
a smooth handover to his successor, retired from the business 
at the end of 2016. I would like to thank David for his service and 
dedication during his 17 years at the Group. 
I was also pleased to welcome Dominique Yates to the Board 
in November as David’s successor. Dominique joins us with 
ten years of experience as Chief Financial Officer, with quoted 
company experience at Symrise AG and, most recently, Regus 
plc. Dominique assumed the role of Chief Financial Officer at the 
beginning of January 2017 .
People
Bodycote is a service business, but first class service is delivered 
by passionate and professional people, who understand their 
customers’ needs and meet their demanding requirements time 
after time. We will continue to invest in training and developing our 
employees to ensure that our talented workforce remains one of 
our competitive advantages. As noted above, 2016 has not been an 
easy year for the Group and, once again, I would like to thank all of 
our employees for their dedication. 
Shareholders
During the year I met with a number of Bodycote’s largest 
shareholders and received positive feedback from them on their 
views of the Group. In the coming year I will maintain this valuable 
dialogue. I also look forward to meeting as many shareholders as 
possible at this year’s AGM in May 2017 , when there will be an 
opportunity to discuss the Group’s business and future prospects 
with Board members.
Summary
The performance of the Group was creditable in 2016 through 
another challenging year. Decisive cost actions and measured 
investments have helped mitigate the negative impacts of weak 
market conditions.
We have a strong, high-performance culture serving a wide range of 
international customers, with a committed workforce and absolute 
integrity in our operating procedures. We remain well placed to 
take advantage of our strong position, whichever way our markets 
develop, and the long-term prospects for the Group are excellent. 
I remain confident that these should ensure an attractive return for 
both our employees and our shareholders over the coming years.
A.M. Thomson
Chairman
28 February 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information
03 www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY
