 Annual Report 2016
06 Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
07
Chief Executive’s Report
Introduction
Total revenue growth for the full year 
was 5.3%, from £178.6m to £188.0m. 
Like-for-like (‘LFL ’) sales grew by 0.7% 
and online sales grew by 3.6%. In line 
with our revised expectations, profit 
before tax (‘PBT’) was £9.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 22.9% 
on the prior year, and underlying PBT 
(PBT before exceptional items) was 
£10.6m (FY15: £12.4m), a decrease 
of 14.5% on the prior year.
The results reflect the challenging 
trading experienced throughout both 
the winter and spring seasons, which 
impacted normal footfall patterns and 
consumers’ propensity to buy seasonal 
ranges. However, we have emerged 
from this tough period focused on five 
key strategies that form the pillars of 
our forward growth and modernisation 
programme. Internally we are now 
concentrating on several areas where 
we expect to deliver significant 
improvements for the benefit 
of our customers.
The difficult trading conditions, widely 
reported across the retail sector, made 
sales growth harder to achieve. It was 
therefore necessary to place greater 
emphasis on cost levels, whilst taking 
care not to reduce investment essential 
for growth. I have been impressed at 
our teams’ ability to maintain a tight 
control on costs particularly through 
the second half of our financial year, 
which has mitigated the effect of trading 
on profitability. The Group’s financial 
position remains sound and we enter 
the new financial year with a strong 
balance sheet.
This is my final Annual Report at 
Bonmarché, and I am confident that 
I will leave the business with a robust 
modernisation plan and a depth of 
experience and expertise within the 
business to execute it over the 
coming years. 
Trading review
Sales (in this report we will refer to 
revenue as ‘sales’) for the year increased 
by 5.3%, with store-only LFL sales 
increasing by 0.7%. Our market share 
(of the UK’s 50+ women’s value clothing 
market, as measured by Kantar) ended 
the year at 3.4%, which was a 0.1% 
decrease on the previous year. 
During the first half of the year, sales 
increased by 6.5% with LFL store sales 
up 2.0% and online sales up by 4.2%, 
compared to H1 in the previous year. 
As has been well reported, the cooler 
extended summer suppressed demand 
in traditional categories such as dresses, 
T-shirts and swimwear and, as a result 
of this, customers continued to stay 
away from the high street, which also 
affected Bonmarché.
In the second half of the year, total sales 
growth slowed to 4.1%. Store LFL sales 
declined by 0.6% and online sales grew 
by 3.1% compared with the previous 
year. The recurring theme of a lacklustre 
summer remained a hindrance into the 
autumn, and record mild temperatures 
were recorded into December. In the 
early part of the autumn, our strategy 
to ‘de-weather’ our coats and knitwear 
departments worked well. However, we 
had planned for these ranges to reach 
more normalised volumes by November 
and due to unseasonable conditions this 
did not materialise. Affected by the 
same conditions, the competition 
started implementing heavy discounts 
from the Black Friday period onwards, 
which made it harder to achieve sales 
at normal prices. 
Post-Christmas, the final quarter of this 
financial year started well as we saw 
LFL sales grow 12.1% during January, 
due to a strong demand for sale items. 
However, with the unhelpful effects of 
a long period of cold, wet weather this 
spring, this growth was short-lived as 
customers lacked the motivation to 
begin investing in traditional spring 
clothing. Categories faring well during 
this period were leisurewear, coats, 
core trousers and nightwear. 
To ensure that stock levels were well 
controlled, despite the disappointing 
sales performance, we made appropriate 
use of discounts, which were higher than 
the prior year. The negative impact on 
margin was mitigated by a higher 
buying-in margin due to improved 
sourcing and more favourable exchange 
rates. As a result, the terminal stock level 
(number of units of the outgoing season’s 
stock carried forward into the following 
year) was lower than last year, which is 
important as it minimises the adverse 
impact of unsold stock from the previous 
season on trading during FY17.
Beth Butterwick Chief Executive
“ Looking back, the external environment 
has made for a challenging year of 
trading. However , we have emerged from 
this period focused on five key strategies 
that form the pillars of our forward 
growth and modernisation programme. ” Annual Report 2016
08
Chief Executive’s Report continued Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
09
Financial results
Profit before tax (‘PBT’) was £9.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 22.9% 
on the prior year. Underlying PBT (PBT 
before exceptional items) was £10.6m 
(FY15: £12.4m), a decrease of 14.5% 
on the prior year. The underlying PBT 
margin decreased from 6.9% to 5.6%.
The £1m of costs which have been 
classified as ‘exceptional’ relate to 
the listing of the Company’s shares on 
the Official List of the Main Market of the 
London Stock Exchange in October 2015.
The financial results are explained 
in more detail in the Financial Review 
on page 21.
Strategic review
Brand: fit for the future
In my report last year, I made reference 
to evidence that our customers are 
embracing the move towards more 
contemporary clothing styles. A recent 
‘brand awareness’ project confirmed 
that Bonmarché is known to 84% of our 
customer demographic, with value, service 
and comfort being the key observations 
they make about the brand. On this 
basis, a key outcome continues to be 
our focus on delivering a more modern 
and stylish fashion experience across 
all our customer touchpoints: stores, 
online, catalogue, magazine and TV. 
We have continued to invest in 
updating our store portfolio and across 
other channels we have improved brand 
consistency with our new logo and 
introduced more aspirational models 
and ‘lifestyle’ images. We continue to 
improve our online shopping experience, 
seeking to make the journey for our 
customers as easy as possible. This work 
was recognised by the 2015 internet 
‘Which?’ survey of online shops, where 
our customers ranked us joint first (with 
John Lewis) in the clothing and accessories 
sector. Our marketing collateral (magazine, 
catalogue and mailers) has also been 
updated with a subtle shift towards 
fresher models and more aspirational 
‘get the look’ outfit suggestions. 
The Bonmarché brand modernisation 
journey continues to evolve and is at 
the centre of our business strategy.
The focus of strategy is on five key drivers:
• Brand development and customer 
acquisition – understanding the 
evolving attitude of our customers, 
and harnessing their engagement 
• Products – modernising our style 
offer and making relevant our 
breadth of ranges to suit customers’ 
everyday occasions 
• Channels to market – enabling 
our selling channels to facilitate 
an ‘anywhere any time’ shopping 
experience for our customers
• Systems and processes – supporting 
a more fluid, agile, productive 
business operation
• People – harnessing our colleagues’ 
passion, expertise and talent through 
an organisation focused on serving 
this important and growing 
customer demographic
1. Brand development 
and customer acquisition
Sales from our most loyal customers 
(‘high value, high loyal’) grew by 4% 
year-on-year, a higher rate of growth 
than in LFL sales. The significance 
of this data is that, whilst our loyal 
customers are still loyal, we must 
increase our effectiveness in attracting 
new customers within our target cohort.
In order to improve the appeal of the 
Bonus Club we have recently introduced 
new Bonus Club member benefits, 
including welcome packs and birthday 
vouchers. In our Scottish region, we are 
testing a top tier scheme called Diamond 
Club; with an annual fee of £10, these 
customers receive benefits such as free 
delivery and advance notification of new 
collections. Improving the appeal of Bonus 
Club to keep it relevant is an important 
and ongoing activity, but a key priority 
for the forthcoming year is brand marketing 
to attract new customers. 
To support this initiative, we conducted 
a regional TV test last autumn, reaching 
90 of our stores. Whilst financially there 
was little measurable upside in the short 
term, crucially it created an increase in 
‘brand awareness’. Our plan is to repeat 
this on a national scale from September 
to October 2016. This campaign will be 
supported by our new brand ambassador, 
Mark Heyes, a TV fashion presenter 
who we believe will resonate well with 
our customers. Mark will be offering style 
advice to customers through all of our 
communication channels to enhance 
further our commitment to helping mature 
women ‘feel fabulous about themselves’.
2. Products
Back to core basics
Over the last year we have focused 
on several category initiatives, based 
on both the external information we 
receive (Kantar and RetailMap) and 
internal feedback such as sales patterns, 
store comments and customer reviews. 
The foundation of our collections are 
the ‘core basic’ lines that our customers 
expect us to offer all year round. Improved 
size availability has resulted in 15% sales 
growth across leisurewear, trousers, skirts 
and lingerie. As an average for the year, 
our core basics were 90% in-stock across 
a broad range of customer ‘hero lines’: 
items she shops for day-in day-out, 
through the year.
The ‘de-weathering’ factor
Another strategic focus was the 
de-weathering of our coats and knitwear 
ranges in the transitional autumn season. 
The offer at this time comprised fewer 
options but with a broader selection of 
lightweight layering; this proved successful 
between August and October. However, 
as the mild conditions continued into 
November, the early successes could 
not counteract the poor performance 
of these categories as the weights of 
the clothing increased in the anticipation 
of normal winter weather. 
Offering wardrobe favourites
We also developed a range of clothing 
called ‘wardrobe favourites’. These are 
individual outfit-building items that 
customers may use to add to an existing 
outfit without having to invest in a two or 
three item purchase. These lines have 
been successful with the commercial 
benchmark being that we had a full price 
sell-through of 75% across our tops 
categories, versus an average across 
our seasonal tops collections of 53%.  Chief Executive’s Report continued
Annual Report 2016
10
2. Products continued
Seasonal collections
Whilst we saw good progress in our 
core and wardrobe favourite categories, 
we had less success with more 
seasonal departments, where we 
repeated bestsellers for too long and did 
not introduce enough ‘newness’. 
Blouses, dresses, and skirts are key 
examples of where there was insufficient 
progress. Increasingly, our customers 
are informing us that, whilst they are not 
slaves to fashion, they do require the 
collections and prints to be relevant to 
colour, print and style trends that they 
see elsewhere and executed in a more 
modern cut. Successes with a long, 
tailored jacket and the growth of our 
printed trouser range have given us the 
confidence to increase significantly the 
pace of modernisation of our range, 
which is a priority for FY17 and beyond.
Brand and designer collections 
Through the David Emanuel range, we 
tested higher-stretch price points across 
dresses and coats. This worked best in 
styles where we had focused on new 
shapes and fabrics, which points to an 
opportunity to apply this to the main 
Bonmarché ranges. 
The existing three-year contract with 
David Emanuel expired at the end 
of March 2016, at which point we 
decided to serve notice to terminate 
the agreement. The arrangement with 
Mr Emanuel has run for nearly nine years, 
and I would like to take this opportunity 
to thank David for his collaboration during 
that time. The arrangement will formally 
terminate at the end of September, after 
which a run-off period will apply to allow 
for the orderly sale of any remaining 
David Emanuel-branded stock. The 
timing of this change dovetails well with 
the introduction of Mark Heyes as a 
brand ambassador. 
We have continued to test and learn from 
our Ann Harvey label. Customers have 
gravitated towards the new, more exciting 
styles across tops, dresses and knitwear; 
the extension down into core sizes (14 and 
16) has also worked well as has the lower 
price positioning.
With regards to menswear, as noted in our 
interim report last November, this is now 
narrowly focused on ‘gifting-orientated’ 
items during the Christmas season. 
Price positioning 
On pricing, we continue to focus on 
‘good value’ products at the opening 
and mid-price points. Additionally, we 
have simplified our price point offer and 
multi-buy deals (‘2 for’, ‘3 for 2’, etc.) 
which have worked well across 
core products.
Supplier partnerships that 
deliver appealing products
Other important changes to our forward 
collections will be a broader offer of new 
and more interesting fabrics and a 
subtle leaning towards a more casual 
end-use clothing offer. Linked to this, a 
review of our supply base has led to the 
conclusion that we need to bring in new 
suppliers (particularly in Turkey and 
India) that will give us more on-trend 
fabrics, new styles and the flexibility to 
test in-season and repeat best sellers 
through shorter order lead times. As a 
result of this, we expect our Far East 
supplier base (in particular China) will 
reduce by approximately 15%. 
3. Channels to market
A seamless customer journey
Our priority in relation to all channels is 
to improve customers’ overall shopping 
experience and the ease with which 
they search and purchase. Converting 
more customers to purchase across 
multiple channels is important; our 
Bonus Club data tells us that shoppers 
who both shop online and in store 
spend significantly more than customers 
who shop only in store or only online.  Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
11
a) Stores 
New space
Our LFL stores, which represent 83.5% of our total sales, delivered 0.7% year-on-year 
growth. In this year, we opened in 25 new locations which contributed to £4.7m additional 
sales. Additionally, we closed five locations. At the end of the financial year, our store 
portfolio comprised 312 sites, detailed as follows:
Number at 
28 March 2015
Net opened 
during year
Number at 
26 March 2016
Solus Bonmarché stores 265 5 270
Solus Bonmarché stores relocated n/a 1/(1)* n/a
Garden centre concessions 17 13 30
Other concessions 10 2 12
Total 292 20 312
Overall, the performances of new stores 
are in line with the investment return targets, 
with average paybacks within three years 
for solus stores and one and a half years 
for concessions. The strategy of opening 
approximately five new solus stores 
and approximately 15 concessions/other 
locations each year will continue. 
This rate achieves an optimal balance 
of contributing to growth, being modest 
enough to be able to remain selective 
in site location and being able to be 
funded from operating cash flow.
Improving our store experience
An ongoing focus across our retail 
estate continues to be small, but 
important, environment enhancements, 
with the desired outcome being that our 
customers feel that spending time with 
us is an enjoyable experience. During 
2015, we have replaced the fascias of 
140 stores. A further 40 will be replaced 
during the new financial year, to 
complete the programme.
Other visual improvements to stores have 
included: new window displays with more 
mannequins to ‘showcase’ product styles 
and how they fit; more seated areas for 
accompanying shoppers; modernised till 
areas with the focus being to de-clutter 
till points; clearer store information towers 
in the windows; testing smaller point-of-sale 
displays and a more up-to-date design 
of accessory display units. 
‘Customer first’
We have continued to train and develop 
our store colleagues, covering a range 
of customer and product-related topics. 
Through this year we have measured 
our ongoing progress using a CSAT 
programme (online customer satisfaction 
survey). This continues to provide a net 
promoter score measure, although the 
altered methodology of collecting the 
data means that we will lose the ability 
to make comparisons with prior years 
until we have established a history 
of results using the new method. 
Nevertheless, we retain the ability to 
make relative comparisons between 
stores, which provides a useful tool to 
help the retail teams focus on detailed 
aspects of operational improvement. 
The CSAT replies also provide a broader 
range of feedback which is beginning to 
help inform decisions in other parts of 
the business.
At the beginning of the year we launched 
a ‘personal shopping’ service, whereby 
customers can pre-book an appointment 
to get style advice for special occasions or 
outfit building. Average transaction values 
associated with a personal shopping 
consultation were £90, compared to 
£19 for normal transactions. 
Benefiting both our customers’ 
experience and store operations, we 
launched an improved stock delivery 
service to all stores during Q1. The 
objective was to improve style choice 
and size availability on our sales floor 
by shortening the interval between 
identifying the need for an item to 
be replenished, and the item being 
available for sale. The initiative also 
introduced out of hours deliveries, so 
that stock replenishment can take place 
without inconveniencing customers 
during busy trading hours. Whilst it is 
difficult to attribute an accurate sales 
uplift to this, test stores indicated that 
there was a sales gain as a result of this 
operation which more than funded the 
incremental cost. The benefits of this are 
likely to be realised to a greater extent 
over the next two to three years as other 
system and process improvements 
further enhance stock availability.
* One solus store relocated in the year, i.e. one opened and there was one corresponding closure. Annual Report 2016
12
3. Channels to market continued
a) Stores continued
‘Customer first’ continued
Looking ahead to this year, and 
with the rising costs as a result of 
the introduction of the Living Wage, 
we continue to assess and implement 
a smarter, more productive way of 
working whilst protecting our 
‘service promise’.
b) Other channels to market 
Online sales
At the end of this financial year, online 
sales represented 7 .3% of our total sales, 
which is disappointing. This has been a 
challenging year for our online operation, 
which only managed to achieve a £0.5m 
increase or a 3.6% growth on the prior 
year. The weakest months were either 
side of our responsive site implementation 
in July 2015, and in December, when 
we experienced weak trading following 
Black Friday, with customers having taken 
advantage of the plethora of discounts 
generally available around that event.
The responsive site delivers a 
better shopping experience when 
customers use tablet or mobile devices. 
Its introduction has also enabled us to 
introduce a tool called ‘Attraqt’ which 
more effectively merchandises products 
for individual customers, based on their 
purchase profile history. To measure 
our site effectiveness, we introduced 
‘ForeSee’, an online ‘mystery shopper’ 
tool that collates customer feedback on 
their journey experience through our site. 
This is analogous to the CSAT 
programme used in stores. Eventually, 
as we continue on our multi-channel 
journey, these separate customer 
feedback programmes will be joined up 
as part of a more coherent CRM design.
We have continued to simplify and 
improve our homepage and the look 
and feel of our site generally. We use 
AB multivariate testing to ensure that 
changes that we believe are improvements 
are also preferred by customers. 
Investing in a more fulfilling customer 
online experience 
Our customers are increasingly 
digitally savvy, searching, browsing 
and ‘shopping on the go’. Tablets now 
account for 40% of our online sales, 
with mobiles growing to 13% and 
traditional PCs stepping back to 47%. 
Ongoing improvements during the 
forthcoming year include a website 
re-platform to ‘Demandware’, which 
with our new EPOS store till system will 
facilitate an online gift card functionality 
and more aligned store and online price 
initiatives such as ‘2 for’ and ‘3 for 2’. 
An improved fulfilment service will 
enable a later ‘next day delivery’ cut 
off and the ability to track parcels.
‘Shop your way’
Supporting our two main channels (stores 
and online) are a catalogue, TV shopping 
and a call centre to handle telephone 
orders. We launched an additional high 
summer catalogue last year and the 
Ideal World TV shopping channel continues 
to provide exposure for the brand. 
A new telephone system introduced just 
before the end of the year will allow our 
internal call centre team to reduce the 
incidence of customers abandoning calls 
due to slow answer response times.
4. Systems and processes
2020 customer 
experience vision
During the course of this year, we 
have tested and implemented several 
physical service improvement initiatives 
including the delivery improvement 
mentioned above.
In last year’s Annual Report, I noted 
that we had experienced issues with 
a project to replace our EPOS system. 
I am pleased to report that a re-start 
of work with Oracle has allowed us to 
continue this critical renewal project 
and we aim to have rolled out the Retail J 
system to all stores by the end of the 
year, which should support an improved 
customer experience as well as provide 
the business with greater customer 
insight.
At the start of the new financial year, 
we also implemented a new HR system. 
The benefits are multiple, ranging from 
more agile payroll functionality, a 
working hour tracking tool, automated 
holiday requests and, in the future, 
an applicant tracking service. 
Looking ahead to this financial year, 
we are currently finalising a ‘discovery 
phase’ plan to replace a 20-year-old 
legacy ERP system. Over the next 
several years, as modules are introduced, 
Chief Executive’s Report continued Bonmarché Holdings Plc
Strategic Report
13
processes and systems will be 
modernised/introduced in merchandise 
and allocation planning, PIM (management 
of product information across all channels), 
CRM (allowing us to link all store and 
online customer information to our 
Bonus Club membership data), 
and business intelligence.
With a view to ensuring that these 
programmes are delivered successfully, 
we have invested in an experienced 
‘change programme team’ alongside 
building a stronger IT support team. 
Governance will be further supported 
by our new independent Non-executive 
Director, Mark McClennon, who has 
extensive and deep experience in these 
matters as a result of a distinguished 
career at Unilever.
5. People
Great people make 
great companies
Over the course of last year, we have 
continued to prioritise attracting new talent 
to support major strategic initiatives. The 
main focus for recruitment has been 
across our creative brand marketing, 
buying and merchandising, multi-channel, 
systems change programme and, 
underpinning our organisation, senior 
appointments within our HR function.
In conjunction with this, we have 
continued to evolve and embed 
our colleague performance and 
development tool, enabling 
development review conversations 
through the year. As we look to our 
2020 vision, Bonmarché will attract, 
develop, retain and reward a team of 
skilled, motivated and talented colleagues.
Employee survey
In 2015 we moved from using a company 
culture survey to an employee engagement 
survey, using ‘Best Companies’. Best 
Companies compiles the Sunday Times 
100 Best Companies to work for Survey. 
The results of our internal survey provide 
valuable insight into organisational 
behaviours which we need to develop or 
improve to assist in our aim to have the 
right capability to execute our strategy 
successfully. The tool provides feedback 
at an organisational level, and also at a 
much more granular level, which allows 
individual managers to identify steps they 
can take to improve their own performance. 
The main output of this programme is the 
diagnostic insight it gives, but in addition 
I am delighted to report that Bonmarché 
ranked 19th in the ‘Best Large Companies 
to work for’ survey. 
Outlook 
Looking ahead, there will continue 
to be external factors that affect 
consumer confidence and the cost 
of doing business – the EU referendum, 
rising costs driven by the Living Wage, 
forex rates, and business rates are all 
unhelpful macro headwinds. Consumers 
are also spending a greater proportion of 
their disposable income on technology 
and leisure; however, we are focused on 
continuing to provide customers with a 
compelling reason to shop at Bonmarché. 
We firmly believe that as a niche retailer, 
focused on catering for the mature female 
demographic, Bonmarché is well 
positioned to continue to grow. 
The brand development work we are 
conducting through the early summer 
will serve to focus and drive our five key 
business initiatives and support our 
modernisation programme, which is 
core to our growth strategy. I am a firm 
believer that the key to successfully 
executing our strategy will be the strong 
talent of our newly recruited specialists 
and existing colleagues. Timely delivery 
of our vision through a continued team 
focus is our priority in the year ahead. 
Trading during the early part of FY17 
has continued to be tough due to 
poor weather, however our full year 
expectation is unchanged provided 
trading conditions normalise.
Beth Butterwick
Chief Executive
10 June 2016
