 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 / Strategic Report
03
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that Booker 
Group has delivered another good 
performance. In the 52 weeks to 25 
March 2016 sales rose by 5.0% to 
£5.0bn and operating profit (before 
exceptional items) of £155.1m was up 
11%. Customer satisfaction was strong. 
The financial performance was good 
and the Group ended the financial 
year with net cash of £127.4m. Our 
‘Drive’ plans are working well with 
progress on the catering and retail 
sides of the business. Our like-for-like 
sales to caterers were +0.6% including 
Classic (our on-trade supply business) 
and +1.9% excluding Classic. Our 
like-for-like sales to retailers declined 
by 2.2% primarily due to the effects 
of the ban on small stores displaying 
tobacco products. 
The plans to ‘Broaden’ the business 
are going well. In the 52 weeks to  
25 March 2016 Booker distributed 
£1.8bn of product to our customers’ 
premises versus £1.4bn last year as 
we continue to expand our delivered 
service. Digital sales were £979m 
compared to £874m in the previous year 
and Booker India is making progress. 
On 14 September 2015, Budgens and 
Londis joined the Group. They have 
fitted in well and will help us improve 
choice, prices and service to all our 
retail customers.
Basic earnings per share were 7.24 
pence, up from 6.73 pence last year. 
Given the strong operational 
performance and cash flow of the 
business the Board recommends the 
payment of a final dividend of 4.03 
pence per share (2015: 3.14 pence per 
share) which, together with the interim 
dividend, makes a total dividend for the 
year of 4.60 pence per share (2015: 3.66 
pence per share). The final dividend is 
payable on 8 July 2016 to shareholders 
on the register on 10 June 2016.
In addition to the final dividend, the Board 
is recommending a capital return to 
shareholders of 3.20 pence per ordinary 
share (at a cost of approximately £57m, 
based on the current issued share 
capital of the Group). This follows the 
capital return of 3.50 pence per share to 
shareholders in each of July 2014 and July 
2015. We currently anticipate returning 
a similar amount to shareholders in 
July 2017.
During the year, Richard Rose stepped 
down as Chairman. I would like to thank 
him for the contribution he made to the 
Group in his nine years as Chairman. 
Bryn Satherley also stepped down from 
the Board. In the past ten years Bryn 
has been responsible for Property, IT, 
Supply Chain and Distribution and has 
made a great contribution to Booker. 
In December Gary Hughes joined the 
Board and will succeed Andrew Cripps 
as Chairman of the Audit Committee 
after this year’s Interim Results in  
October 2016. 
I should like to thank all our colleagues 
for their contribution to the success of 
the Group in the year just ended.
Outlook
The Group’s trading in the first seven 
weeks of the current financial year 
is ahead of last year. However, we 
anticipate that the challenging consumer 
and market environment will persist 
through the coming year and the UK’s 
food market remains very competitive.
Whilst there is increasing price 
competition in the UK grocery and 
discount sectors, we will continue to 
deliver our plans to offer our customers 
even better choice, prices and service 
supported by the continued delivery 
of our efficiency programmes. We 
are on track to deliver an outcome for 
the new financial year in line with our 
plans and to make progress in this 
challenging environment. 
Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting will be held 
on 6 July 2016. The notice of Annual 
General Meeting and a circular setting 
out further details of the proposed 
return of capital, which itself requires 
shareholder approval, will be issued to 
shareholders in due course.
Stewart Gilliland
Chairman
“I am pleased to report that  
Booker Group has delivered  
another good performance.”
