 2 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
2004 was an eventful year in the development
of the Bradford & Bingley Group.A new Group
Chief Executive was appointed in March and,
following a strategic review, five non-core
businesses were sold and a programme to cut
costs by £40 million was initiated. Performance
of the continuing core businesses was
satisfactory. Profit before tax and exceptional
items increased 6% to £280.2 million and
earnings per share before exceptional items
increased 8% to 31.0 pence per share.
There has been a cost attached to this
reorganisation amounting to £174.9 million
reducing the profits before taxation after these
costs to £105.3 million. Much of this
represents goodwill being written off,
consequently the impact on our regulatory
capital is comparatively small.The Board is
confident that the short-term pain of these
one-off exceptional costs will be rapidly offset
by the substantial cost savings and better
quality earnings in the future.
Steven Crawshaw was appointed Group Chief
Executive in March, following the departure of
the previous Group Chief Executive. Steven’s five
years with the Group, including his two years as
Managing Director of Lending and Savings,
preceded by his eight years of experience in the
mortgage industry, make him very well equipped
to lead the Company. In May the Board
announced the outcome of its strategic review
concluding with the aim to simplify and change
the future direction of the Group.
The main conclusions of this were to dispose
of our non-core businesses, to continue the
emphasis of our lending on the specialist
segments of the residential and other
“The Group has a clear strategy and an
appropriate structure. After an eventful year in
2004, 2005 offers great opportunity to build
value for the future.”
Rod Kent Chairman
Chairman’s statement
property markets, to refocus and simplify our
retail branch-based business and to reduce
costs in the core business by £40 million.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to propose a final
dividend of 11.4 pence per share for payment
on 6 May 2005 to shareholders on the register
as at 29 March 2005. If approved, the full year
dividend for 2004 will be 17.1 pence per
share, an increase of 4% (2003: 16.5 pence).
Lending
Our total managed lending balances increased
12% to £28.9 billion (2003: £25.9 billion) and
total new lending was a healthy £9.2 billion
(2003: £9.9 billion) including acquired assets.
Growth was primarily driven by the residential
lending business where we have continued to
build upon our strong position in several
specialist segments of the market.
Lending income and profit both showed
satisfactory growth, although Group net interest
margin continued to decline mainly driven by
narrower liability spreads as the Group’s funding
base was deliberately diversified and strengthened.
Our arrears have continued to be very low
by historical standards. Our arrears
performance compares well to overall
industry statistics for the book as a whole 
and in our buy-to-let portfolio.
Balance Sheet and Capital
We have increased our access to funding 
from the secured markets successfully launching
a€2 billion covered bond and establishing a
master trust securitisation programme in 2004.
These new funding platforms significantly
enhance our ability to source funding from new
and highly liquid financial markets. 3 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
We will continue to balance our funding
needs from traditional wholesale sources, the
secured funding markets and by growing our
savings balances in 2005.
The Group remains well capitalised and capital
ratios are within target ranges.
Retail branch business
In our Retail branches we have started to
simplify and enhance our customer
proposition.We are looking to improve sales
procedures, product ranges, back office
processes and profitability.
Our new partnership with Legal & General is
an important step in the development of this
business.The combination of their experience
and comprehensive product range, alongside
that within our branches, gives our customers
better provision of investment and protection
products and improves overall profitability for
the Group.
Our branch-based mortgage broking business is
now operating under the new Financial Services
Authority (‘FSA’) regulations.We have revamped
the size and number of the various panels of
lenders and given complete transparency of fee-
charging to our customers.The trading name of
MarketPlace has been dropped.
We have re-energised our retail Savings
business, raising the profile of our product
range. In October we launched a new internet
based deposit account which has been very
successful. Overall, Savings balances grew by
£1.1 billion over the year, the first significant
progression since the flotation in 2000.
Regulation
In regulatory terms, 2004 was a particularly
significant year with the FSA taking
responsibility for mortgage regulation from
the 31 October, a challenge the Group passed
through smoothly.
The increasingly complex regulatory landscape is
an inescapable part of life as a financial services
organisation. Despite simplification of the
business, regulatory requirements will continue
to put pressure on costs and absorb
management time.
We were fined £650,000 by the FSA because
of non-compliant selling practices regarding the
sale of investment bonds by our Independent
Financial Advisers.We have redoubled our
efforts to ensure that we are fully compliant in
future with all requirements.The simplification
of our business should help in this regard.
We are continuing to prepare for the
forthcoming consequences of adopting
International Financial Reporting Standards.
We will communicate with the market as
appropriate during 2005 to discuss the
changes to the financial accounts but, at the
moment, do not believe the overall impact 
on earnings or capital will be material.
Board
In March, Christopher Rodrigues resigned as
Group Chief Executive to become CEO of Visa
International. I would like to express my thanks
to Christopher for his eight years of service
during which time the Group became a plc.
Following the decision to sell the non-core
businesses, Ian Darby resigned from the
Board in August. After continuing in his role
as Commercial Director, he will be leaving
the Group in August 2005.We thank him for
his contribution to the Group.The Board
now consists of myself as Chairman, five
Non-Executive directors and three 
Executive directors.
People
The sale of five businesses, accounting for roughly
half of the Group’s workforce, and the onset of
cost cutting measures have meant a difficult time
for employees in many parts of the business.
The professionalism of our people has shone
through during the year and is evidenced by
the smooth running of the core businesses,
the swift conclusion of the sale processes and
good progress in meeting cost targets.
Outlook
The Group is starting 2005 stronger and fitter
after the hard work carried out in 2004.We
have a clear strategy and an appropriate
structure.We are expecting the mortgage and
housing markets to moderate from the
exceptionally strong conditions seen in 2003
and 2004. Fundamentals in the secured
lending market are strong and we expect to
show continued growth in Lending. Our
branch-based Retail business offers good
growth potential from a relatively low base
and we will continue to improve our
customer proposition. 2005 offers great
opportunities to build value for the future.
Rod Kent
Chairman
