 4 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
I was delighted to be appointed Group Chief
Executive by the Board in March. Following my
appointment I immediately instigated a
fundamental strategic review to look at the
shape of the Group, the changing nature of
our operating environment and how best to
create value for shareholders in the future.
The conclusions of this review were
announced to the market in May and revolved
around the main theme of building a simpler,
stronger, more profitable business. In order to
do this I concluded the Group should:
• continue to develop a strong specialist
Lending business;
• refocus and grow its branch-based Retail
business;
• dispose of businesses not core to its
operations; and
• reduce costs in the core business.
I felt the need for decisive action to be taken
which included the decision to dispose of
businesses that had formed part of the
strategy of the organisation since before the
float in 2000.
“We have started 2005 with a simpler business
focused on our core lending and retail
banking operations. Our hard work in 2004
has given us a stronger, healthier base for
building future growth.”
Steven Crawshaw Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Executive’s review
Although the non-core businesses held strong
positions in their respective markets they
were characterised by a number of factors
that did not meet with our objectives of
building a simpler, stronger business.These
included high cost gearing, high earnings
volatility, insufficient scalability and insufficient
synergy with the rest of the Group. In
addition, these businesses consumed
management and operational time far in
excess of their relative profit contribution.
We recognise cost cutting alone is not the
path to a strong, sustainable business.
Therefore, we will continue to invest in the
Group where we believe we can generate
growth and value.
We made rapid progress in 2004.This is a
tribute to the hard work put in across the
Group during what was, at times, a very
challenging period in many parts of our business.
Lending
We have continued to build on our core
proposition of lending focused on profitable
segments of the secured lending market.We
believe that good growth and attractive margins
are available in these markets and, by balancing
innovative product design with prudent risk
management, Bradford & Bingley can continue
to prosper.
Our balance sheet has continued to show
healthy growth with total managed lending
balances growing 12% to £28.9 billion (2003:
£25.9 billion).Total new lending during 2004
was slightly below the unusually high levels in
2003 when we took advantage of buoyant
conditions to add scale to the balance sheet.
This year new advances were £9.2 billion
(2003: £9.9 billion) including acquired assets.
Residential managed loan balances increased
14% to £23.6 billion (2003: £20.7 billion) and
total new residential lending was flat at £7.7 5 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
billion (2003: £7.7 billion). Residential loans
accounted for 84% of total new lending in
2004 (2003: 78%).
Gross residential lending in the second half of the
year was impacted by the deceleration in the
market in the fourth quarter and disruption
surrounding the implementation of mortgage
regulation.We ran down our pipelines in
preparation for mortgage regulation to ensure a
smooth transfer to a new mortgage system on
the 31 October and to allow the intermediary
community to adjust to the new environment.
We maintained our margins and credit quality
requirements in the second half, preferring to
take on high quality loans rather than push for
volume as the market slowed.We also took
action to organise our Lending business in
preparation for the reduced levels of business
we are expecting in the near term. A slight
decline in the volume of portfolio acquisitions
to £1.3 billion (2003: £1.4 billion), and lower
volumes of new lending on the former
building society book (2004: £0.2 billion; 2003:
£0.4 billion) also contributed to more normal
levels of residential lending growth than we
saw in 2003.
We have a strong track record in the secured
lending market and, in particular, in specialist
mortgage products. In 2004 our market share
was 21.8% of the buy-to let market (2003:
24.6%) and we maintained our position in the
self-cert market.We have also continued to
build our new ‘Lifetime’ equity release product
and achieved a market share of around 14.1%,
consolidating our position as one of the
leading players in this rapidly growing area.
Commercial and Housing Association lending
balances increased slightly to £5.3 billion
(2003: £5.2 billion) whilst new loans fell to
£1.5 billion (2003: £2.2 billion).This segment
of our book accounted for 16% of total new
lending in 2004 (2003: 22%). During 2004 the
Commercial market was very competitive.
Consequently, we pulled back from making
loans where margins were compressed to
below the level that we believe to be in the
best interest of our shareholders. However,
we remain active in the commercial property
finance field and will continue to take
opportunities to lend profitably in the future.
Margins on new lending were maintained
during the year.This, together with the benefit
of continued balance sheet growth, generated
Lending income growth of 7% to £314.3
million (2003: £294.6 million) and profit before
tax growth of 9% to £249.6 million. However
Group net interest margin declined 23bp to
132bp (2003: 155bp) due to the impact of
changes in the mix of assets and liabilities on
the balance sheet as newer balances replaced
the mature elements of our book and as we
deliberately diversified our sources of funding.
During the last few years, arrears and
repossessions have been at unprecedentedly
low levels. In 2004 the level of arrears
increased, reflecting the tightening in the
interest rate environment. However, the
number of loans more than three months in
arrears at the year end still remains extremely
low by historical standards at 0.77% of loans
outstanding by number across the whole
book and similarly at only 0.52% for the buy-
to-let portfolio (2003: 0.99% and 0.25%
respectively).This compares favourably with
Council of Mortgage Lenders statistics for the
market as a whole of 0.82% and 0.63% for
buy-to-let. Our arrears and bad debts remain
low due to the high quality of the Group’s
loan collateral, lending policies, underwriting
procedures and collections processes.
Loan-to-value (‘LTV’) ratios on new residential
lending continue to be conservative at 74%
(2003: 77%) and the LTV ratio across the
whole book has increased slightly to 67% on 
an original basis and 45% on an indexed basis
(2003: 66% and 45% respectively). Income
multiples on new lending have also remained
conservative with averages of 2.6x single
income and 2.2x joint income (2003: 2.5x and
2.2x respectively).
Because of the extremely low levels of arrears
across the loan portfolio together with
recoveries against old loans that were previously
written off, the Group has had a small release
from provisions for bad and doubtful debts of
£2.0 million (2003: £6.6 million charge).We
maintain a conservative stance towards
provisioning seeking to ensure cover against all
identifiable, potential losses. Residential bad debt
provisions represent 0.21% of managed
residential assets (2003: 0.27%).
Balance Sheet and Capital
Income from Treasury & Reserves decreased
16% to £54.9 million (2003: £65.7 million) and
profit before tax decreased 19% to £46.7
million (2003: £57.6 million).The combination
of increasing interest rates and our rising cost
of funding has constrained earnings in this 
part of the Group during 2004.Total assets
increased 10% to £35.5 billion (2003: £32.2
billion) reflecting the growth in lending
balances.This has been funded by retail
deposit growth, secured and traditional
wholesale markets.
Our strategy is to diversify our funding to
promote a stronger balance sheet in the
medium-term. During 2004 we increased our
Savings product range and made a meaningful
addition to balances for the first time since the
Company floated.We have also entered new
secured funding markets.We issued €2 billion
of covered bonds in May and established a
master trust securitisation programme in
October with a £9 billion pool of mortgages,
against which we have already borrowed £2
billion.We intend this programme to form a
substantial element of our funding plans in the
future.These growth areas supplement our
active international fundraising activity in the 6 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
wholesale markets.Although beneficial to the
structure and stability of the balance sheet in
the medium-term, our greater use of the
secured and retail markets has increased the
total cost of funding across the Group in the
short term.
Our capital position remains strong with a Tier
1 ratio of 7.3% and a total capital ratio of
13.1% (2003: 7.7% and 14.0% respectively).
Retail
Our Retail business has two key elements:
• Savings: providing a range of our own
Savings products, both in the branch and
through direct channels, and
• Core Distribution: providing a wide range 
of our own and other companies’ financial
services products mainly through our branch
network, but also through direct channels.
In combination, these two business areas have
performed well in 2004 generating a substantial
35% increase in profit before tax to £59.6
million (2003: £44.2 million).This has been
driven by profitability and from simplifying 
the business.
Our Savings business showed good
performance with net balance growth of £1.1
billion arising from our reinvigoration of this
business.We have become more competitive
and have raised our profile in the market.This
is the first meaningful growth in balances since
the float and our new internet savings channel
was an important part of this growth. Savings
income increased 6% to £121.0 million (2003:
£114.2 million) and profit before tax increased
35% to £32.5 million (2003: £24.0 million).
The refocus and simplification of our core
Distribution business included a reorganisation
of branch management structures,
simplification of sales processes, performance
management of low productivity advisers and
sale of the non-core businesses. Profit before
tax and exceptional items increased by 34%
to £27.1 million (2003: £20.2 million).
The investment and insurance agreement 
we announced with Legal & General in
November anticipated the opportunities open
to the Group under the new regulatory
regime.This innovative agreement moved the
Group away from being an independent
financial adviser.This, together with the
simplification of our continuing branch-based
mortgage broking business announced in
January 2005 has helped to reduce the
complexity and risk in the sales process.
There is still a lot of work to be done in the
Retail division over the course of 2005, but I
am confident that we will be able to grow
from our current, small base. However, this
business will always be a smaller component
of the Group than Lending.
Disposals
During the strategic review the Board
concluded that the property services
businesses (Estate Agency and SecureMove),
Charcol and the smaller mid-to-high net
worth IFA businesses (Charcol Holden
Meehan and Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave)
were not core to the Group’s operations and
should be sold.
We began to look for new owners for these
businesses in May.The disposal programme
was concluded with the sale of Charcol in
December.The sales were conducted swiftly
and we achieved reasonable value for each of
them given their performance and current
market circumstances. Exceptional costs of
£20.3 million and a loss on sale of £123.2
million, mainly the write-off of the associated
goodwill, have been incurred in 2004.
The non-core businesses contributed income
of £139.0 million while they remained part of
the Group (2003: £162.8 million) and made a
loss before exceptional items of £8.3 million
(2003: loss of £9.8 million). At the start of
2004 these businesses employed 3,670 people,
almost half of the Group’s total. Reducing the
number of employees by this order of
magnitude provides the opportunity to simplify
support functions across the Group.
Costs
A rigorous review of costs identified substantial
opportunities to reduce expenditure in the
core businesses by the end of 2005.The
Group is on track to remove £35 million of
expenditure in 2005, rising to £40 million in
2006 (at 2004 prices and volumes). Part of 
the one-off exceptional costs of £31.4 million
incurred in 2004 arises due to actions taken 
to reduce operating costs.
In addition to these cost initiatives, a further
£10 million annual cost saving is expected to
be realised from the partnership with Legal &
General announced in November.
The majority of the cost savings identified are
realisable as a consequence of simplifying the
organisation around fewer lines of business, a
smaller central overhead and more efficient
operation of front and back office processes.
The number of employees in the core business
has reduced, as expected, from 3,781 to 3,152
employees. Cost control activities should not
impact our plans for growth, the Lending and
Retail businesses will be the least affected.
Group Services operating costs showed an
increase of 11% to £77.0m (2003: £69.6m).This
was driven by increased activity in the Group
centre related to the disposal processes, cost
cutting initiatives, and an increase in the costs of
processing claims and compensation payments
for sales made in the past by our independent
advisory business.We expect our move away
Group Chief Executive’s review 7 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
“2004 has been a year for
simplifying the Retail business 
and laying the foundations for
future growth”
Paul Saxton Managing Director, Retail
Our Retail business
Our Retail business has two key elements, Savings 
and Distribution:
• Savings develops and sells our own competitive range of
deposit based investment products through 300
branches, online and via post/telephone.
• the Distribution business offers its customers a wide choice
of financial services products through the branch network
and direct channels. B&B has the UK’s leading mortgage
broking business and also offers a wide choice of highly
competitive products from a range of providers including
general insurance, wealth and personal loan products, which
are provided by third parties. Investment and protection
products are provided by Legal & General. 8 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2004
Group Chief Executive’s review
from providing independent advice to a simpler,
multi-tied proposition will generate marked
improvements which, together with the other
cost measures already taken, will improve
performance in 2005.
Market outlook
Lead indicators and current trading show the
housing market is slowing from the unusually
strong rates of growth experienced in the last
few years, as five consecutive increases in the
Bank of England’s base rate have started to
take effect.We welcome this deceleration from
the unsustainable levels of growth experienced
in the last few years.
We anticipate that the housing market will
move into a period of consolidation with
reduced house price inflation and transaction
volumes for the next couple of years.
Housing market fundamentals however remain
strong. Interest rates and unemployment are
both likely to remain at historically low levels,
real household incomes should continue to
grow and housing demand is likely to outstrip
supply into the medium-term.
Low debt servicing costs mean that mortgage
affordability remains good and whilst we have
seen some signs of arrears rising, we do not
expect to see any material deterioration in
the near-term.
As house prices stabilise, rental levels are
rising in most parts of the country, tenant
demand has been sustained and rental yields
are hardening.We believe that these factors,
together with promised pension benefits, will
support the underlying level of demand in the
buy-to-let market.
Demographic indicators are positive for our
chosen markets. Household formation is rising,
flexibility in the labour market is increasing, the
pension crisis shows no sign of ending and the
Government is maintaining its ambitions for
further education. All these indicators support
continued and sustainable growth of the buy-
to-let, self-cert and lifetime segments of the
mortgage market.
Business outlook
We completed a great deal of groundwork in
2004 and have significantly changed the shape
and size of the Group for the better and grown
profits in the core business along the way.
Our challenge in 2005 is to continue the
work we started in 2004 and to build on the
stable foundations we have established for
future growth.
We will need to continue to grow our
Lending business and rebuild our pipeline,
to take forward the development of our
branch-based Retail business, to maintain the
momentum achieved in Savings, and to keep
control of costs.
The aim of these goals is to create a simpler,
stronger business that is better for our
shareholders and customers.
Steven Crawshaw
Group Chief Executive
