 6 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
The Group continues to follow its primary
strategy of growing secured lending assets
selectively and funding them with a robust
savings business and an increasingly
international wholesale funding operation.We
have also developed two innovative financial
services retailing brands and a strong property
services business which require little capital
but generate valuable fee income.
The transformation of the Group since flotation
is emerging more and more clearly.The specialist
lending book is growing strongly and is now
considerably larger than the old building society
back book. Our Charcol and The MarketPlace
financial services brands are recognised and
respected by consumers and the personal
financial press. Bradford & Bingley is now the
largest mortgage intermediary in the country.
The trading environment in 2003 was mixed:
• advantageous macro-economic conditions
helped the markets for lending and
mortgage broking;
• the housing market suffered during the
second quarter but improved during the
second half;
• consumer appetite for investment products
did not improve despite the recovery in
equity markets;
• after many months of falling interest rates,
markets became more volatile around the
middle of the year and interest rates began
to rise.
In these conditions we traded satisfactorily
and made good progress in the majority of
our businesses.
Lending
Our core Lending business reached a key
milestone in its development with managed
selective residential lending assets at £13.6 billion
(2002: £7.9 billion) exceeding the old building
society residential back book of £7.1 billion
(2002: £8.9 billion) for the first time. Profit
before tax increased by 9% to £228.1 million
(2002: £210.2 million).All of our lending
continues to be secured on property and we do
not make unsecured loans.
Gross new lending increased 70% to £9.9 billion.
The 58% organic growth in new residential
lending of £6.3 billion was complemented by the
acquisition of a series of mortgage portfolios
worth £1.4 billion and a £2.2 billion growth in
our Commercial and Housing Association
lending businesses. Of the £7.7 billion new
residential loans in 2003 (2002: £4.6 billion), 61%
were buy-to-let, (2002: 52%), 33% were other
specialist residential loans (2002: 36%) and 6%
were advances to building society back book
customers (2002: 12%).
The momentum we reported at the interims
has been maintained. In the first half year the
net addition to managed residential balances
was £1.9 billion and commercial balances grew
£0.8 billion. Comparable numbers for the
second half were £2.0 billion and £0.7 billion
respectively. Of the £9.9 billion new loans
during the year 78% were residential and 22%
were commercial, in line with the mix achieved
in 2002.
“Our core lending business reached a key
milestone in its development, with managed
selective residential lending assets exceeding
the old building society residential back book
for the first time.”
Christopher Rodrigues Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Executive’s review 7 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
“Mortgage Express is a very efficient service
with a quick turnaround and decision.Well
presented products - very fair and
reasonable.”
George Stephens Mortgage Broker, Aberdeen
Mortgage Express
In a record year for new lending, our Mortgage Express
business has grown significantly, building on its reputation as a
leading player in the specialist areas of the mortgage market.
Diverse portfolio
Commercial Property and Housing Association Finance
Lending provide additional revenue, diversity and growth.
Strong growth
Portfolio acquisitions from GMAC-RFC have further 
added to our lending business and complement our 
strong organic growth. 8 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
The strong lending growth we delivered in 2003
will begin to flow through into profit towards the
end of 2004. Profit growth lags lending growth
for two reasons:
• margins on new selective lending, whilst higher
than those available on vanilla lending, are
lower than those historically achieved on the
back book; and
• most of the cost of origination and new loan
set-up is absorbed in the year in which the
loan is put on the books.
As the size of the declining back book becomes
smaller, relative to the growing selective lending
book, profit momentum will increase.
Over the year, total managed residential
lending balances grew 23% to £20.7 billion
and commercial lending balances grew 40% to
£5.2billion generating a total lending balance
increase of 26% to £25.9 billion.
The total lending book is now 80% residential
(comprising 34% buy-to-let, 27% building society
back book and 19% other specialist residential
mortgages) and 20% Commercial Property and
Housing Association lending.
Our Commercial Property and Housing
Association lending grew 40% during the year to
£5.2 billion. Our Commercial Lending team has
been successful in building relationships with a
number of larger banks and is an active
participant in the commercial property
syndication market. Housing Association lending
also increased, although by a lesser amount,
reflecting the competitive nature of this low risk
segment of the market.
The credit environment in 2003 was benign and
the credit quality of all our books has continued
to be very strong. Provisions on our balance
sheet and in our securitisation vehicles rose 9%
to £60.7 million.This growth is lower than the
growth in the balance sheet for two reasons:
• the continued improvement in loan-to-value
(‘LTV’) ratios as house price inflation raises the
market value of the housing stock against
which we lend; and
• the continued decline in the number and value
of non-performing loans.
LTV ratios on new lending increased to 77%
(2002: 73%).The LTV ratio across the book
was 66% (2002: 61%) and 45% (2002: 43%)
when taking account of house price inflation.
The number of cases in arrears dropped
despite the increase in the volume of lending.
The proportion of cases over three months in
arrears fell to 0.99% of the total book 
(2002: 1.66%).We are well provided against
potential losses and provisions cover has
improved as a proportion of non-performing
loans from 18.6% to 31.5%.
Savings
Savings balances increased slightly to £15.1 billion
(2002: £15.0 billion).We remain a safe home for
customer deposits offering competitive products
and returns. Balances were maintained in a very
aggressive market for new business.
The low interest rate environment that prevailed
for most of the year, compressed margins.The
recent change in the interest rate cycle provides
an opportunity to develop new products and
offer improved returns in the coming year.
Treasury
Our Treasury team capitalised on the declining
interest rates in the first half of 2003, adding
to interest income. Conditions in the second
half did not offer similar opportunities
although the team did position itself well for
the interest rate rises that occurred in the
latter part of the year.
The key task of the Treasury team during the
year was to fund our rapid lending growth.
They have secured a diverse range of funding
from the UK, European, US and Asian capital
markets. During the year they raised around
£4 billion from overseas markets.
They also completed a £250 million issue of
Upper Tier II subordinated debt in April and a
further £200 million in December as we
continued to improve capital efficiency.
Financial services
Overall, financial services revenues fell by just
over 6% to £135.7 million (2002: £144.4
million). Individual sectors of the business
performed quite differently.
The mortgage broking market was buoyant
throughout the year and the continued growth in
remortgaging showed that refinancing to reduce
borrowing costs is becoming a way of life for the
UK consumer. Our mortgage broking related
revenues rose 25% to £70.3 million. By contrast
the market for investment products remained
weak and revenues from the sales of investment
products fell 29% as consumers showed no sign
of responding to the well publicised savings gap.
Equities recovered some lost ground in the
second half, but continued adverse publicity
about mis-selling and the troubles of the
insurance sector were regularly in the headlines
and small and medium sized investors, our main
investment market segment, sat on the sidelines.
We have reduced our wealth advisory force in
response to the weaker market.The total
number of advisers employed by the Group
declined from 1,031 to 960.
We have continued to expand our financial
services retailing businesses and have introduced
a number of new products and services,
including personal loan, credit card and general
insurance broking.
Group Chief Executive’s review 9 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
“As first-time buyers we saw it as a minefield,
but our MarketPlace adviser was excellent
at explaining everything - all went through
smoothly in weeks whereas a friend who
went elsewhere took months - thank you.”
Michael & Caroline Rabin Doncaster
The MarketPlace
Our MarketPlace offices across the country provide
customers with access to a full range of financial services
offering the best products available to meet all borrowing,
investment and proctection requirements.
Largest mortgage intermediary in the country
Providing consumers with a choice of mortgages to suit 
their needs.
Property services 
Bradford & Bingley Estate Agency and SecureMove give us
valuable market insight and our customers a suite of high
quality property services. 10 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
Our new insurance proposition has been well
received by customers and staff alike which
looks set to halt the decline in insurance
revenues.The 18% decline to £21.6 million
(2002: £26.2 million) was largely associated with
the run-off of the building society back book and
its linked insurance portfolio.
We acquired two premium advice businesses
during the year, Holden Meehan, now Charcol
Holden Meehan and Aitchison & Colegrave, now
Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave.These acquisitions
added scale and further skills to our wealth
advice business, strengthening its position in the
mid to high net worth financial planning and
services market for both individual and corporate
customers.The integration is proceeding well and
the businesses have already become valuable
parts of the Bradford & Bingley Group.
Property services
Property services revenues were flat year-on-
year at £114.4 million (2002: £114.6 million).
The Estate Agency business had a year of two
halves while Surveying continued to go from
strength to strength.
There was a substantial reduction in housing
transaction volumes during the Spring which,
coupled with a decline in margins, resulted in a
fall in Estate Agency income in the first half to
£35.5 million (2002: £42.5 million). New
management responded by taking swift
corrective action. Costs were reduced and yield
and volumes were improved with the result that
income for the second half was £41.8 million,
only £0.4 million below the same period in
2002. Estate Agency has entered 2004 in a
stronger position than it entered 2003.
Our Surveying business, SecureMove, has
continued to perform well with revenues up
24% at £37.1 million for the full year.We
acquired the Douglas Duff partnership in
October. SecureMove is now one of the UK’s
largest survey businesses with over 275
professionals complemented by a network of
contract surveyors who offer flexibility to
respond to peaks and troughs in demand.
Market outlook
The lending market remains strong.As we enter
2004 we expect remortgaging will continue to
be a major factor in the market. Equity release
will gather momentum as a part of long-term
financial planning.
We expect house prices to continue to rise,
but at a much slower rate than in recent
years. It is likely there will be a modest
reduction in the total number of housing
transactions as interest rates begin to rise and
the shortage of properties coming on to the
market continues. Prospective first time buyers
will remain challenged by the price of starter
houses, providing continued support for the
lettings market.
We anticipate the beginnings of an improvement
in investment product sales as confidence in the
stock market improves, and growing awareness
of the savings gap should encourage consumers
to invest more for retirement.
Business outlook
We expect the overall environment for our
businesses to remain relatively benign in 2004.
Interest rates are still low and the employment
market is strong and stable. Provided these
economic conditions continue, we do not expect
any dramatic changes in market conditions.
Given the strength of our lending pipeline, we
start the year confident that we will deliver
continued growth in our lending balances in
2004. However, we remain cautious lenders and
do not plan to participate in the unsecured
lending market.
Estate Agency started 2004 with better
pipelines and margins than in 2003 and the
Surveying business will benefit from the
acquisitions made last year.
Our financial services businesses remain focused
on improving their customer proposition and
their margins. However, the regulatory change
agenda will be particularly demanding in 2004.
We face new or significantly changed regulation
in mortgage lending, mortgage broking and
insurance, coupled with the forthcoming
introduction of new accounting standards and
capital adequacy requirements. Many of the new
regulations will improve market conditions but
their introduction absorbs considerable amounts
of money and management time.We expect
these costs will be largely offset by the
programme of operational process
improvements that is currently underway.
Overall, we move into 2004 confident that our
business model works and will deliver increasing
value to our shareholders.
Christopher Rodrigues
Group Chief Executive
Group Chief Executive’s review 11 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
“I found remortgaging so easy. My adviser
was very knowledgeable, and gave clear,
unbiased advice on several aspects of my
remortgage. Overall I was very pleased
and impressed.”
Gary Deardon Cardiff
Charcol
Charcol is acknowledged as a leading provider of mortgage
advice. During 2003, we have complemented this strong
mortgage reputation with the addition of investment
advisory services by the acquisition of Charcol Holden
Meehan and Charcol Aitchison & Colegrave.
Charcolonline
Customers can access Charcol from any location, the online
facilities provide access to the full range of mortgages,
conveniently and simply.
Awards
Charcolonline were winners of Best Mortgage Broker (use
of technology) at the Mortgage Strategy Awards,April 2003.
