 4 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
Group profit before tax and exceptionals
declined 4% to £263.0 million and earnings per
share fell slightly from 29.3 pence to 28.7 pence.
Nonetheless, Bradford & Bingley has had a
successful year.
Exceptional charges, which were £32.6 million in
2002, fell to zero in 2003.As a result, Group
profit before tax rose 9% to £263.0 million.
Basic earnings per share rose 6.4 pence (25%)
to 32.3 pence. Of this increase, 3.6 pence
arose from the release of a taxation provision
for conversion costs.
The Group balance sheet grew strongly from
£25.4 billion to £32.2 billion, reflecting the
success of our lending business which
increased balances 26% to £25.9 billion.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to propose a final
dividend of 11.0 pence per share for payment
on 7 May 2004 to shareholders on the
register as at 26 March 2004. If approved,
the full year dividend for 2003 would be 
16.5 pence. Future dividends will be balanced
by the capital requirements of our growing
lending book.
Lending
The Group continued the transformation of its
main mortgage Lending business from a
traditional building society mortgage book to a
portfolio of selective residential mortgages and
commercial property lending. Our loan portfolio
grew £5.3 billion in the year, £3.9 billion of the
growth was organic and £1.4 billion came from
“Looking to the future we aim to maintain our
strong position within our chosen lending
markets and to test other areas of specialist
mortgage lending.”
Rod Kent Chairman
Chairman’s statement
mortgage portfolio acquisitions.The main
growth came from the buy-to-let market.This is
a market in which we are a leading player and
one we understand well.We also saw a
significant increase in our Commercial Property
lending portfolio.
Over the last three years our lending strategy,
which has been very successful, has been to
replace high margin traditional mortgage
lending, which was redeeming across the
industry at a fast rate, with a portfolio of
selective secured lending.The margins on
selective lending are lower than those
achieved on the old building society back
book but above margins on new mainstream
mortgage loans.
During this crucial transition period, our net
interest income has remained within a narrow
range. But, given the growth in lending
balances which we achieved this year, and
assuming no abnormal economic
circumstances, we expect our net interest
income will once again grow in 2004,
particularly in the second half.
Looking to the future we intend to maintain our
strong market position within our chosen
lending areas and to test other areas of specialist
mortgage lending.As a Group, we have made
the deliberate decision to transact only secured
lending and not to enter the higher risk,
unsecured personal lending market.This sets us
apart from many of our competitors.
Savings 
Our Savings business performed satisfactorily.
Balances remained stable in a difficult year,
which saw high levels of competition and, for
most of the year, a declining interest rate
environment.The turning point in interest
rates last autumn should help release some of
the margin compression in the business and
we are currently refreshing our product range. 5 Bradford & Bingley plc
Annual Report & Accounts 
for the year ended 31 December 2003
Treasury
Our Treasury team supported the strong growth
in our Lending business by sourcing funds from
UK and international markets to meet the
demands of our growing balance sheet.
Distribution
Our capital intensive Lending business is
complemented by a diverse range of property
and financial services businesses which require
little capital.These related businesses include
Estate Agency, Surveying and the broking of a
wide range of mortgage, investment and
insurance products.
These businesses contribute a small but
important share of our earnings and enhance
the Group’s return on capital. Over the last
three years they have contributed between
4% and 12% of Group profit before tax.
This changing earnings pattern reflects the
volatile dynamics of some of the underlying
markets.We benefit from strong market
positions in many of these businesses which
we plan to exploit in future years.We are the
largest mortgage broker in the UK, the fifth
largest residential estate agent and the third
largest residential surveying firm.
Our Distribution businesses delivered a mixed
performance in 2003. Overall profit contribution
was substantially down. Mortgage broking and
Surveying performed well throughout the year.
Estate Agency was hit by the sudden slow down
in the Spring, but recovered in the second half,
while investment product income was
substantially down throughout the year in line
with the rest of the market.
Regulation
The increase in regulatory activity continues
and we are faced with a significant number of
regulatory changes in the coming year.The
introduction of new regulations in the
mortgage market will have a particular impact.
Increasing regulation and the corresponding
growth in the compensation culture has
become a fact of life in our business and the
Group’s task is to try to anticipate and keep
ahead of the changes.
Whilst we are supportive of proper regulation
in general, it comes at a cost.The additional
expenditure needed for training, new systems
and reviews of past business increased costs in
2003 and will continue to impact the business
in 2004.
Board
Over the year we have made several changes
to the Board. Robert Dickie, Group
Operations Director and Ian Darby, Group
Commercial Director were appointed as
Executive Directors.
Stephen Webster, Ian Cheshire and Louise Patten
joined the Board as Non-executive Directors.
George Cox has taken on the role of Senior
Independent Director.
The Board now consists of myself as 
Non-executive Chairman, five Non-executive
Directors and five Executive Directors.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to
the three Non-executive Directors who retired
during the year.All of them had given many
years of service to the Company. Diana
Courtney (10 years), Mark Smith (9 years) and
Trevor Lewis, the Vice Chairman (13 years), all
played a crucial role in the conversion of
Bradford & Bingley into a FTSE 100 company.
People
Over the last few years the Group has
demutualised, become a plc, entered the FTSE
100 and responded to significant changes in the
markets we serve. Change is now a way of life
and our staff deserve to be congratulated for
their performance, as do the committed senior
management team who have led these changes.
Outlook
Bradford & Bingley starts 2004 with good
momentum across its businesses and a major
programme of regulatory change to manage.
We are expecting a stable property market,
improving savings market and some return in
demand for investment products.The benefits
of growing our selective lending book will
become evident in our 2004 results,
particularly in the second half and beyond.
Rod Kent
Chairman
Relative share price performance since flotation
Bradford & Bingley Group performance against the FTSE
100 and the FTSE 350 Banks Index.
Bradford & Bingley Group
FTSE 350 Banks Index
FTSE100
Strong growth in lending balances
£ billion
19.7
18.7
20.5
25.9
00 01
02 03
