 6 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.BBG.CO.UK
“We have continued to build
on our strong track record in
the specialist lending sector.
Our chosen markets
performed very well during
the second half of 2005 and
we started 2006 in a good
position with a stable, healthy
lending environment.”
2005 was a challenging and successful year for
the Group, a year of two halves in the
residential lending market and a period where
we have consolidated on the intense changes
that we went through in 2004.
My ambitions for the Group in 2005 have
been fulﬁlled. The Lending business has shown
good growth, Retail continues to improve and
the cost cutting programme has been
completed with a new, ongoing vigilance
against unnecessary cost inﬂation now
embedded in the business.
I am delighted that the actions we undertook to
simplify and reinvigorate Bradford & Bingley are
showing such success. We have become a
stronger, healthier organisation and have driven
proﬁt growth off that improved platform with
underlying proﬁt increasing 1 1% to £31 0.1 million
over the year (2004: £280.4 million). The
Group’s proﬁt before tax and loss on sale of
discontinued operations also increased to
£263.5 million (2004: £231.9 million).
During the year, I was pleased to welcome,
Chris Gillespie and Chris Willford to the
Group. Their experience from careers in
ﬁnancial services and other industries brings
added strength and depth to our Board.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Positioned for growth
Steven Crawshaw
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE This was not a phenomenon conﬁned to
Bradford & Bingley. The overall mortgage
market also had its highest ever half year for
gross lending in the second half of 2005.
However, within the wider recovery, it is highly
signiﬁcant that buy-to-let and self-cert, two of
our main products, grew particularly strongly.
This supports our view that the growth of
these markets is likely to keep on
outperforming the wider mortgage market.
These specialist areas continue to be
supported by strong demographic drivers, a
fundamental shortage of housing stock and, in
the case of buy-to-let, good demand from
landlords for property, as well as from tenants.
The market for buy-to-let loans remains
competitive, but we have not seen any
fundamental change in the nature of the
market or pricing of loans.
We remain committed to strengthening our
position as a leading player in the specialist
lending markets. Our share of the buy-to-let
market was around 20% in the second half of
the year and we are building on our strong
positions in the self-cert and lifetime markets.
Mortgage portfolio acquisitions have continued
to play a part in our lending business with the
Group acquiring £ 1.4 billion of loan portfolios
over the period (2004: £ 1.3 billion). Our
primary focus for growth is our organic
lending. However, mortgage portfolio
acquisitions will continue to provide an
opportunistic, alternative channel.
The environment for our Commercial and
Housing Association lending businesses stayed
ﬁercely competitive during the year, as it had
done in 2004. Commercial property has been
a popular asset class for investors throughout
2005 and is expected to remain so in 2006.
We made new loans where margins and credit
terms were at acceptable levels and protected
the loans we already held on our balance
sheet. At 31 December 2005 the Commercial
and Housing Association book stood at
£5.0 billion (2004: £5.3 billion) with £ 1.6 billion
(2004: £ 1.5 billion) new lending in the year.
7 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.BBG.CO.UK
Lending
We have continued to build on our proposition
of lending in more proﬁtable, specialist
segments of the residential mortgage market.
We believe that good growth and attractive
margins are available in our markets and, by
balancing innovative product design with
prudent risk management, Bradford & Bingley
will continue to prosper. We are unique as a
lending institution in our preference for high
quality selective assets with a fully secured loan
portfolio and no exposure to unsecured
consumer lending.
Our Balance Sheet has continued to show
healthy growth with total assets increasing 7%
to £40.8 billion (2004: £38.2 billion). T otal new
advances were £8.8 billion (2004: £9.2 billion)
including acquired assets. The bulk of this was
attributable to our residential lending activities
with the remainder coming from our
Commercial and Housing Association business.
The residential lending market went through a
signiﬁcant change during the course of 2005.
In the ﬁrst half of the year the mortgage market
experienced very low lending volumes and
transaction levels. We had run down business
levels in the autumn of 2004 to reduce
operational pressure over M-Day when
mortgage regulation was introduced and as we
implemented a major operational upgrade that
included switching our residential lending
operations to a new mortgage system. As we
tried to rebuild volumes in the ﬁrst quarter of
2005, the market slowed markedly and we
took a decision to preserve credit quality rather
than compete for the light volumes that were
available in an uncertain credit environment.
In the second quarter the market started to
recover and we became more comfortable
with the credit outlook. We delivered a steady
improvement in the level of applications and
new loans as we moved through the year to
achieve record lending in the second half,
moving back to a more natural position in the
new lending market compared to the ﬁrst half.
This change is particularly clear from our new
residential lending performance – £2.5 billion in
the ﬁrst half and a record £4.7 billion in the
second, representing a share of the total
market of 2% and 3% respectively.
Credit quality and impairment
The UK secured lending credit cycle appears to
have turned for the better. Record high
employment and low interest rates over the last
few years conspired to generate an
exceptionally benign credit environment that
deteriorated in the ﬁrst half of 2004. Since then
a combination of base rate rises, slight
deterioration in employment levels and other
stresses on the UK consumer and economy
have led to a modest rise in arrears across the
market. This upward trend represents a, return
to more normal levels of credit default rather
than a material deterioration. The absolute
numbers of distressed loans in the market
remain very low by historical standards.
We have seen a similar movement within the
Group to that reported in the external market.
Arrears levels across all our portfolios have
been showing a modest upward trend well
within management expectations. We expect
this to continue alongside trends in the overall
mortgage market and, speciﬁcally for Bradford
& Bingley, as the signiﬁcant new lending growth
we have achieved in the past three years
translates into a more mature balance sheet.
At 31 December 2005 residential loans more
than three months in arrears stood at 1.1 9%
(2004: 0.77%) for the whole book and 1.06%
(2004: 0.52%) for our buy-to-let book.
We are conﬁdent that our arrears and bad
debts will remain low as a direct result of our
conservative underwriting processes and
lending policies ensuring that the quality of our
loan books is maintained. Increases in arrears
do not necessarily translate into losses. We
have a high equity cushion in our portfolio, the
average loan-to-value (‘LTV’) of the whole
residential book was 50% (2004: 45%) on an
indexed basis (taking account of house price
inﬂation) and 68% (2004: 67%) on an original
basis (at the time the loan was made) at 
31 December 2005. The average LTV of new
lending remained steady at 73% (2004: 74%).
In addition, we remain well provided for with
an impairment allowance representing 0.1 8%
of residential assets (2004: 0.1 6%).
We continue to have a fully secured balance
sheet and, as such, have no exposure to the
current deterioration in the consumer 
credit market.
WE ARE UNIQUE AS A LENDING INSTITUTION IN OUR
PREFERENCE FOR HIGH QUALITY SELECTIVE ASSETS
WITH A FULLY SECURED LOAN PORTFOLIO AND NO
EXPOSURE TO UNSECURED CONSUMER LENDING. 8 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.BBG.CO.UK
Balance Sheet and capital
We worked hard during 2004 and 2005 to
improve the diversiﬁcation of our funding
structure to promote a stronger balance sheet.
At the end of 2005 our success in this task is
evident from our more balanced funding mix –
43% of total liabilities and equity from retail
deposits, 34% wholesale and 1 4% from
secured funding sources (2004: 42%, 39%, and
1 1% respectively).
This does not tell the whole of the
diversiﬁcation story though. We have
broadened our presence in the capital
markets, targeting the full spectrum of
investors in a geographically diverse spread 
of ﬁnancial markets. We have seen good
appetite from investors for our securitisation
master trust, covered bond and wholesale
borrowing programmes.
Although we have experienced some pressure
on our net interest margin as a consequence
of this diversiﬁcation process, a combination of
favourable changes in the relative cost of these
different types of funds and a more stable mix
has reduced this effect. On the asset side, the
run-off of the back book has continued to
diminish in absolute terms and as a percentage
of the book.
As a consequence, Group net interest margin
improved in the second half of the year relative
to the ﬁrst half and only reduced slightly on
2004 (2005: 1.21%, 2004: 1.25%). Looking
forward, our balance sheet and net interest
margin are expected to be more stable.
As a regulated bank, we are required to hold
reserves of capital and the amounts are deﬁned
as the tier 1 and total capital ratios. In line with
our conservative approach to lending, we
remain a well capitalised bank with our year end
tier 1 capital ratio at 7.9% (2004: 7.5%), well
above the regulatory minimum. This is further
bolstered when taken in the context of our
relative lack of life assurance, proprietary trading,
commercial and unsecured lending activities. We
will continue to manage our tier 1 capital within
our stated range of 7% to 8%. Our total capital
ratio also increased to 1 3.5% (2004: 1 3.2%).
Retail
We have continued to improve efﬁciency by
simplifying our sales and distribution processes.
Our relationship with L&G continues to develop
and this arrangement offers good growth and
income prospects for the coming year. General
insurance sales stabilised as we have successfully
moved new sales to the counters in our
branches rather than being related to our old
Building Society mortgage sales.
Savings showed an excellent performance
during 2005. Balances have increased 9% to
£ 1 7.7 billion (2004: £ 1 6.2 billion). The bulk of this
increase has come from our eSavings offering
(£ 1.2 billion) with a strong performance from
our operation in the Isle of Man (£0.3 billion).
In our branch-based accounts we managed a
signiﬁcant volume of maturities during the year
and improved our customer retention rates.
I am particularly pleased with our Savings
performance because of the funding it provides
to the Lending business and the customers it
generates for the other Retail businesses.
Costs
The Group’s cost base was £264.8 million in
2005, £ 1 67.4 million down on the whole
business and £20.1 million down on the
continuing business in 2004. This is a material
improvement and brings our underlying
cost:income ratio down to 45.6% compared to
60.7% in 2004 for the Group and 49.8% for
the continuing business.
These improvements have come about as a
consequence of simplifying the organisation
around fewer lines of business, a smaller
central overhead and more efﬁcient front and
back ofﬁce processes. The number of
employees in the Group now stands at 3,043
compared to 3,1 52 for the core business at the
end of 2004, with a reduction of nearly 500 in
the average number of people employed to
3,062 (2004: 3,530) in the continuing business.
Our formal cost cutting programme has 
now concluded and we have exceeded the 
£50 million target that we set in May 2004.
We now have a stronger, more vigilant stance
toward costs in the operating businesses. It is
this dynamic that will drive our cost
performance in the future rather than another
structured programme.
Market outlook
The housing market is in good shape. After
the lull seen in the ﬁrst half of the year,
conﬁdence has returned to the market and
demand has been buoyant. House price
inﬂation has stabilised over the past eighteen
months, with the risk of a wholesale fall in
house prices now remote, which will boost
conﬁdence in the market for the year ahead.
The housing market will also continue to be
supported by the structural pressure arising
from the UK’s shortage of housing supply
relative to household creation, although it will
be limited on the upside by current
affordability constraints.
We expect the mortgage market to remain
robust. The favourable social, demographic
and economic factors that underpin our
specialist markets will continue to drive 
their outperformance.
Risks from prudent mortgage lending continue
to be low. We continue to believe that the
independent management of monetary policy by
the Bank of England will prevent any marked
swings in interest rates. Although the
employment level, a major driver of secured
lending arrears, appears to have passed its
cyclical peak, the UK economy remains relatively
healthy and signiﬁcant deterioration is unlikely.
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CORE COSTS REDUCED BY
7% Housing & rental market
Both the housing and mortgage markets showed a strong
recovery in the second half of 2005 following sluggish
demand in the ﬁrst half. Indeed, gross mortgage lending
reached new record levels by the end of the year.
House prices, which had shown little increase in the latter part of 2004, were ﬂat in
the ﬁrst half of 2005. However, there was a modest rise in prices towards the end of
the year, indicative of the increasing conﬁdence in the market. In 2006 we expect the
market environment to remain stable with the ‘soft landing’ achieved in 2005 being
sustained. The main drivers of the housing market, the mortgage market and 
mortgage arrears seem unlikely to show any material change in the near-term.
The UK economy, although currently growing slightly below trend, is in a relatively 
strong position and is expected to improve through 2006. Interest rates are low and 
stable with market consensus currently suggesting room for some small cuts in interest rates.
Employment levels seem to have peaked, but with growth only marginally below its
trend rate, we expect the rise in unemployment will have little material impact on levels
of demand in the market. Earnings are expected to show steady growth, potentially
helping to improve mortgage affordability, although the growth in disposable income will
be limited by price rises including larger council tax and utility bills.
The UK private rental sector is healthy with demand from tenants looking for rental
property remaining strong. As a consequence, interest from people wanting to
become landlords continues at high levels. Social changes toward renting, demographic
movements and some affordability issues in the housing market all remain positive for
the buy-to-let sector.
We conduct regular surveys of our customers to give us insight into the views and
intentions of borrowers who invest in the private rental sector. The most recent set of
results are extremely positive. Demand amongst landlords and tenants for property is
healthy moving into 2006.
9 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.BBG.CO.UK
We expect our arrears levels to continue to
remain low in a historical context but to show
a moderate upward trend. This partly reﬂects
the mild increases in credit stress from the
extremely benign conditions experienced in
the recent past, but is also due to the overall
growth in the Group’s assets and the
seasoning of our lending book.
Overall, we expect the environment to be
stable in 2006.
Business outlook
Our Lending business began the year in a very
good position. The momentum of record
lending volumes in the second half of 2005 has
continued with a strong pipeline in early 2006.
Margins are stable and we are competing
effectively in the market. This should translate
into good growth of lending income.
We are operating in a robust mortgage market
and see good prospects for our chosen
specialist segments, which positions us well for
future growth.
Retail is now better placed to deliver
proﬁtable growth and will support our Lending
business through continued improvement in
savings balances.
Costs remain under tight control and we have
a sound capital base for future expansion.
We have had a strong start to 2006. Our
business is stronger, leaner, and better able to
convert growth into proﬁt.
