 Our headquarters
Braveheart at a glance
OUR UNIqUE PROPOSITION 
Our Business Model
The Group is focused on making market-leading returns from  
the management of, and investment in, intellectual property  
– principally via the provision of equity funding for university 
spin-outs.
Our engagement
The investment of capital is only the start of our relationship with 
portfolio companies. We appoint chairmen and non-executive 
directors and we engage with management teams to assist in 
strategic development and to optimise exit values. We regularly 
review progress to identify opportunities and threats.
Our University r elationships
We have strong links with a number of leading universities and 
innovation centres across the UK. This gives us access to a wide 
variety of emerging commercial opportunities at early stages.
We believe our business model sets  
us apart from our peers: 
•
  We have two income streams
•
  We have a client base of experienced 
and entrepreneurial high net worth 
investors who work with us in 
investment selection, monitoring 
and maximising the exit potential
•
  We have a pipeline of investment 
prospects from leading universities
2 OUR BUSINESS
Private c lient
The Group provides heavily screened investment opportunities  
to both discretionary and advisory clients. Clients in turn may 
provide the Group with secondary due diligence as part of the 
investment appraisal process and also form a pool of executive  
and non-executive directors to assist in the management and 
governance of portfolio companies.
Fund Management
The Group invests capital from its own balance sheet in order  
to make gains through income and capital appreciation in  
the equity of portfolio companies. The Group’s returns are  
generated from the realisation of portfolio investments,  
whether this be through trade sale, secondary purchase, 
management acquisition or IPO.
Funds under management
SMART Fund
Seed fund •	
Fully invested (10 investments) •	
 Initially used to deliver SMART Equity Scheme •	
Alpha EIS Fund
 £2.5m virtual fund (will make 10 to 15 seed investments) •	
 Used to deliver SMART Equity Scheme and Proof of  •	
Concept Scheme
 Participants include Braveheart Investment Group, private •	
clients, Bank of Scotland Corporate, Scottish Enterprise
Performance bonus in place •	
Eight investments completed •	
Scottish Co-investment Fund
 One of the largest partners in this public sector fund •	
£6m under management •	
 Can use to match private investment •	
Portfolio and discretionary clients
£13.5m under management •	
Our business consists of two components:
OUR VISION
Our vision is to grow Braveheart by 
way of organic growth and M&A. 
Organic growth will come about via 
geographical expansion: we intend  
to establish a presence in or around 
London before the end of our  
financial year. 
We are looking at M&A opportunities 
where we can see economies of scale 
and synergistic business combinations. 
The focus is on the areas of private 
clients, fund management and 
consulting. Our purchase of W L 
Ventures Ltd last year and our recent 
interest in ANGLE plc are examples  
of situations where we believe we  
can add value. 
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 3
