 BRAVEHEART INVESTMENT GROUP   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
I have pleasure in presenting 
the results of Braveheart 
Investment Group for the 
year ended 31 March 2009.
Financial Environment
Like most AIM-listed technology and  
financial stocks, Braveheart had a tough  
year as problems in the financial markets 
unfolded. Market volatility and shareholder 
nervousness, which had been apparent at the 
start of the year, were rapidly compounded  
by the credit crunch, deteriorating property 
markets, and a recession whose length and 
depth still remains uncertain. As the business 
environment deteriorated we experienced 
reduced client appetite for investment with  
a consequent reduction in deal fees from 
both clients and portfolio companies. 
While our financial results reflect the current 
environment, your Board has responded 
positively to both challenges and opportunities 
by laying the foundation for future growth 
through establishing a broader geographical 
footprint and positioning the Group for 
expansion. At the same time, a strong  
balance sheet has been maintained.
Throughout these difficult times our priority 
has been to ensure that our portfolio 
companies receive the funding they need to 
pursue their development plans. The provision 
of such capital preserves and enhances the 
potential value of the Group’s investments, 
and those of our clients. 
Results
The loss from investment management 
operations before net movement on the 
revaluation of investments for the year 
ended 31 March 2009 was £977,000
(2008: £42,000).
The loss after tax for the year was  
£1.25m (2008: profit after tax £99,000),  
which equates to a loss per share of 9.22p  
(2008: earnings per share of 0.74p).
Total income before net movement on  
the revaluation of investments decreased  
to £565,000 (2008: £991,000). Investment 
management fee income fell to £350,000 
(2008: £660,000), and interest income fell to 
£215,000 (2008: £331,000). Inclusive of the 
net unrealised loss arising on the revaluation 
of portfolio investments of £278,000 (2008: 
gain of £148,000), total income decreased  
to £287,000 (2008: £1.14m).
Operating costs increased to £1.54m (2008: 
£1.03m) as a result of the implementation  
of our growth strategy and one-time costs  
of £257,000.
Cash utilisation fell marginally in the year 
to £1.59m (2008: £1.67m) and comprised 
£1.06m (2008: £1.17m) invested in portfolio 
companies and £523,000 (2008: £501,000) 
used in other activities.
The Group continues to have a strong 
balance sheet, with cash balances of £3.22m 
(2008: £4.81m) and net assets of £6.17m 
(2008: £7.35m) at the year end. 
Investing for the Longer Term
As I reported last year, the Board had 
adopted a growth strategy in order to 
achieve the Group’s potential. In the light  
of market conditions that strategy was  
tested throughout the second half of the 
year, with the Board concluding that it should 
press ahead with its plans. M&A transactions 
are one means of achieving this growth and 
at the present time values are attractive. I am 
therefore pleased that on 8 June 2009 we 
were able to report the acquisition of Inkopo 
Ltd, a highly regarded fund management and 
financial services business based in Yorkshire. 
Details of this acquisition are set out in the 
CEO and CFO reports and in Note 25 to the 
financial statements. I am personally 
delighted that Inkopo has joined our Group.  
I believe that this acquisition will give us a 
strong presence in Yorkshire and the North  
of England, further complementing our 
existing business and enhancing our fund 
management capacity.
 
Chairman’s Statement
Overview of our Business 2 BRAVEHEART INVESTMENT GROUP   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
The establishment of an office in London 
and the setting up of a dedicated marketing 
resource was the second part of our 
expansion plan. While the catalyst of an 
economic upturn is required to cement new 
relationships, we are well pleased with the 
progress that has been made to date.
Portfolio Investment
Notwithstanding short term fluctuations in 
valuations, our investment strategy is well 
proven, involving investment from our clients 
and our own balance sheet, leveraged by 
specialist public sector funds. With reduced 
levels of investment from our clients, and 
correspondingly lower public sector matched 
funding, greater proportionate responsibility 
has rested upon the Group’s own resources 
than has been necessary in the past. 
Our CIO will expand on our strategy  
for meeting that challenge but I would 
emphasise that our firepower has been 
focused on supporting our existing portfolio 
investments. More rounds of funding were 
concluded last year, albeit at lower average 
investment amounts, than in recent years 
and your Board is confident that no portfolio 
company deserving of additional capital  
has gone without. 
Board, Management and Staff
We appointed Colin Grant as Chief  
Financial Officer in October, and he 
immediately joined the Group’s Board.  
He has also taken over the role of Company 
Secretary from Carolyn Smith. Colin joined 
us from Digital Bridges Ltd where he held 
similar appointments. His experience and  
his knowledge of technology businesses 
makes him a valuable addition to the 
executive team.
With the appointment of its first CFO, 
Braveheart now has a well balanced Board 
of executive and non-executive talent which, 
in my view, gives the Group the best possible 
opportunity to deliver its growth plans. 
I am most encouraged by the cohesive and 
positive way in which the Board is tackling 
current issues.
In the financial services sector it is particularly 
true that companies are judged by the  
quality of their people. For our part we 
employ people of the highest calibre and  
it is their decisions and hard work that make 
Braveheart what it is. I should like to thank all 
of them for working so well together in what 
have been particularly challenging conditions. 
Prospects
We are pursuing our growth strategy because 
of our belief in the underlying strength of our 
investment business, and the confidence that 
we have in our executive team to nurture our 
investments and extract value when more 
benign economic conditions return and 
realisation opportunities emerge. 
Braveheart has strong liquid resources. With 
cash in excess of £3.2m at the year end, and 
an experienced management team, we can 
confidently look ahead in the knowledge  
that we have the ability to deliver our growth 
strategy and make things happen. I believe  
this will create shareholder value in what is 
likely to be a consolidating market.
“ ...we can confidently look 
ahead in the knowledge 
that we have the ability to 
deliver our growth strategy 
and make things happen. ”
Annual General Meeting
The notice regarding the business to be  
dealt with at the Company’s Annual General 
Meeting, to be held on 9 September 2009,  
is set out on pages 53 to 55.
In particular, I would like to draw your 
attention to Resolution 7 which authorises 
an increase in the Company’s share option 
pool. The directors believe that an increase  
in the option pool will enable it to utilise 
incentive based remuneration as a way of 
furthering the development of the Group, 
including attracting new employees, through 
acquisition or otherwise.
Your directors are unanimously in favour  
of resolutions nos. 1-7 (inclusive), which  
they consider to be in the best interests 
of shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, your directors recommend 
shareholders to vote in favour of those 
resolutions, as they intend to do in respect  
of their own beneficial shareholdings.
I look forward to welcoming those 
shareholders who are able to attend.
Garry S Watson
Chairman
Growth
Providing equity capital  
to enable companies to 
achieve their ambitions. 
Overview of our Business 3
