 chie F eXec Utive OFF icer ’s re POrt
This is the first time  
that I am reporting to 
shareholders on a full year  
as a listed company.  
Last year I said we had not 
been idle since we listed  
our shares on AIM in March 
2007 and, once again,  
I am delighted to be able  
to report that we have had  
a busy year and that our 
prospects for growth  
are good. 
Operating and Financial Review
Portfolio
During the year we invested in six new 
companies and provided further equity 
funding to six of our existing portfolio 
companies. One of our portfolio companies 
was listed on AIM and two companies were 
wound up. Unfortunately, one company 
that was listed on AIM failed to raise 
second round funding on the market  
and was placed in administration. 
We are pleased with the statistics from our 
portfolios. More details are given in our Chief 
Investment Officer’s report on page 10.
a cquisition 
Early in the year we acquired W L Ventures 
Ltd which we renamed Caledonia Portfolio 
Realisations Ltd (CPR) and which is now  
a wholly owned subsidiary of Braveheart 
Investment Group plc. CPR came with a 
portfolio of 10 companies and with tax 
losses amounting to around £1m. The 
consideration payable for the business  
was based on an initial sum together  
with a deferred element based on the  
exit proceeds of the portfolio. 
Since acquisition, the value of the portfolio 
has increased substantially. This increase in 
value has been driven mainly by investment 
from third parties. In addition, the Group 
has invested in one business and achieved 
an exit by way of a trade sale in another.
human r esources
During the year we continued to expand 
our management team, principally within 
our portfolio monitoring unit. In most  
of our investments we will exercise our 
right to place non-executive directors  
on the boards of our portfolio companies. 
These non-executives are drawn, primarily,  
from our client bank of experienced 
entrepreneurs and are supported by our 
portfolio management team. The Group 
holds regular seminars on non-executive 
director roles and responsibilities. 
r egulatory 
November 2007 saw the introduction  
of the Market in Financial Instruments 
Directive (MiFID). This legislation was 
greeted with trepidation in some quarters 
and received many column inches in the 
press. The principal effect on us relates to 
the classification of investors; under the 
new definitions the old ‘expert’ has 
become a ‘professional’ and there are now 
quantitive tests that must be applied before 
an investor can be classified as a professional 
client. These tests may be appropriate in the  
wider market but for our sector they are 
unnecessarily restrictive and we are 
supporting a review of the new requirements. 
Given that the legislation is Europe-wide, 
any changes are likely to take time to 
achieve. We are authorised to take on all 
categories of client and the effect of these 
measures is administrative only and not 
detrimental to our business.
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 7 taxation
The Government has now abolished 
Business Asset Taper Relief in favour of 
entrepreneurs’ relief and a Capital Gains 
Tax regime of 18%. An important part  
of our business involves building tax efficient 
portfolios for clients, typically utilising the 
Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS). 
Changes to the tax regime linked to an 
increased annual personal threshold of 
£500,000 mean that EIS portfolios are now 
becoming an increasingly useful asset class. 
This stands us in good stead for building 
this part of our business and I comment 
further on this below. 
Financial Review
general
The consolidated results show a pre-tax 
profit of £106k (2007: loss of £164k). 
Revenue was up 22% to £659k  
(2007: £539k). Earnings per share  
were 0.74p (2007: loss of 1.6p).
Employee costs rose to £559k (2007: £472k) 
as we invested in new staff and other 
operating costs rose to £474k (2007: £274k) 
reflecting, amongst other things, the first 
year’s full cost of being a listed company. 
 
As at the end of the year the Group had net 
assets of £7.3m (2007: £7.2m) and cash 
balances of £4.8m (2007: £6.5m). 
During the year £1.2m (2007: £725k) was 
invested by the Group in its portfolio. 
investment Management income
In common with most other companies in 
the financial services business the general 
slowdown of global markets has impacted 
on our business. This has affected us by 
way of a reduced appetite for investment 
from our private clients, particularly since 
last autumn. I discuss, below, what this 
means to us in the longer term. 
group investments
At the start of the year our investment 
portfolio had a book value of £896k. 
During the year we divested three 
investments with an aggregate loss of 
£71k, made six new investments, and 
made funds available to existing companies 
at an aggregate cost of £1.2m. At the year 
end our investment portfolio had a value  
of £2.6m, reflecting a fair value increase  
of £458k in the period. A liability of £310k  
has been provided for as part of the 
deferred consideration for the W L 
Ventures acquisition.
Portfolio valuation Methodology
This year our portfolio has grown 
substantially and its underlying value has 
become increasingly significant. In view of 
this we have recently concluded a review of 
our valuation methodology and effected 
modifications to ensure that it continues to 
comply with the European Venture Capital 
Association guidelines.
I draw your attention to our Chairman’s 
comments regarding the important 
potential store of value within our portfolio 
that arises as a result of the way in which 
we structure our investments. This potential 
store of value is distinct from any change  
in value arising from the progress or 
otherwise of the portfolio investments.
iFrs
Last year I noted that the requirement to 
adopt International Financial Reporting 
Standards (IFRS) meant that we were no 
longer able to account for work-in-progress 
at our year end. This is particularly 
important given that the end of the tax 
year tends to be our busiest time, and it  
is often the case that investments are 
completed in April rather than by the end 
of March. This year completion of two 
investments was deferred into April. Under 
the old accounting regime the work-in-
progress element would have been taken 
into account and would have added to the 
revenue line for the year under review.
share-based Payments
Under IFRS 2, a charge is required in the 
income statement in relation to the fair 
value of share options granted to employees. 
During the year under review 843,754 new 
options were granted resulting in a charge 
to the income statement of £24k. 
subsidiaries
During the year, W L Ventures Ltd was 
renamed Caledonia Portfolio Realisations 
Ltd and became a wholly owned subsidiary 
of Braveheart Investment Group plc.
Two companies were formed to act as 
partners in the establishment of the 
Strathclyde Innovation Fund, these being 
Strathclyde Innovation Fund GP Ltd and 
Caledonia LP Ltd. Both were set up as 
subsidiaries of Braveheart Investment 
Group plc.
chie F eXec Utive OFF icer ’s re POrt
CONTINUED
8 Principal r isks
We use a risk matrix to identify and assess 
the impact of risks to our business, under 
four key headings: management, regulatory, 
strategic and financial. For each risk the 
likelihood and consequence are identified, 
management controls and frequency of 
monitoring are confirmed, and results 
noted. The Corporate Governance 
Statement on pages 18 to 20 provides 
further information about the Group’s  
risk management process. 
Key Performance indicators (KPis)
Last year we set out the KPIs that we use  
to monitor our performance on a quarterly 
basis. They were, and remain, as follows:
Number of investments made •	
Total sums invested •	
Overheads as a percentage of  •	
total income
Returns achieved on portfolio •	
realisations
Funds under management •	
•	 S taf f 	 r e t e n t i o n
 
Forward strategy
As shareholders know, we are committed 
to increasing shareholder value through  
a programme of organic growth and  
M&A activity. 
We will build outwards from our investment 
management base. We have our core 
private client business, primarily based  
in Scotland, and that will be expanded by 
creating a similar client base in London  
and the Home Counties. That expansion 
programme is already underway and cash 
is being committed to fund this expansion. 
Alongside this, we plan to build our fund 
management business with the creation  
of special purpose funds such as those  
for the universities of Strathclyde and 
Edinburgh. We have recently announced  
a partnership with the University of 
Aberdeen and we expect that, in the 
fullness of time, a fund may be established 
for that university. 
Our company is focused on investing in 
early-stage technology. There are other 
businesses that operate in the same space 
and which have the potential to be a  
good fit. We are looking at a number  
of opportunities. 
As we grow, we need to invest in senior 
personnel. We expect to recruit a further 
four people in the next 12 months, including 
appointments at both main board and 
operational board levels. 
Outlook
At the start of the year under review, 
conversation was about all things green. 
Discussion now centres around three 
issues: the first is the price of our natural 
resources, the second is the global credit 
crisis and the third is the economic fallout. 
Market conditions and volatility give us 
cause for concern. However, whilst these 
conditions create difficulties, they also 
provide opportunities for a well capitalised 
business like Braveheart. 
The challenges going forward will be about 
raising capital and forming partnerships to 
strengthen our position. The opportunities 
will be about using our cash wisely in the 
market, both in M&A and in direct portfolio 
investment. We made good investments 
and business decisions at the turn of the 
century when the markets were last in 
turmoil – we intend to do the same again. 
Following through on promises made to 
shareholders is vital; I am happy to report 
that we are carrying out the plans we 
unveiled at the time of our IPO, we are 
spending capital wisely and we are building 
shareholder value. 
Geoffrey C B Thomson
Chief Executive Officer
“ As shareholders know, 
we are committed to 
increasing shareholder 
value through a 
programme of organic 
growth and M&A 
activity.”
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 9
