 I am delighted to give you 
an update on the investment 
activity in our portfolio and 
on our investment strategy. 
Portfolio Investments
During the year under review we added six 
companies to the portfolio and invested in 
six existing portfolio companies; equity 
funds were provided to Edinburgh Robotics, 
Spiral Gateway, PSI Electronics, NXVision 
(previously Inxstor), MicroEmissive Displays 
Group and Bloxx. Bloxx is the first company 
from the Caledonia Portfolio Realisations 
(CPR) portfolio to receive funds from  
the Group following the acquisition of that 
portfolio in April 2007. New investments 
were made into Traak Systems, Pyreos, 
Atlas Genetics, Elonics, AppShare and 
Conjunct. Brief details of these new 
investments and Bloxx are provided on 
pages 11-13. 
Portfolio Divestments
The Capital Pub Company plc, was listed  
on AIM at a market capitalisation of £32m 
and Pentland Systems Ltd, a CPR portfolio 
company, was acquired on a deferred 
consideration basis with the final return  
yet to be determined. 
Losses are an inevitable feature in the 
venture capital arena. As our CEO has 
advised in his Report, we have had two 
portfolio companies placed into liquidation 
this year: Mixipix and the trading subsidiary 
of Infinite Data Storage Group. In addition, 
the AIM-listed company, Eleksen Group 
was placed into administration.
Looking at our portfolio, current market 
conditions would suggest that near-term 
exit opportunities will come via the trade 
sale route rather than the IPO route. This is 
borne out by our recent observations in the 
market that there are buyers looking to 
make acquisitions. 
Portfolio Returns
At the end of the year under review our 
rebased client exit portfolio (being a 
portfolio where all exited investment  
returns are modelled since inception in 
1997) showed an internal rate of return  
of 33.4%. The overall client portfolio 
(modelling both exited and unexited 
investment returns) is showing a return  
of 26.7%. The rates of return shown by  
our SMART Fund and Alpha Fund are 
1 1.1% and 19.6% respectively. These 
returns compare favourably to the British 
Venture Capital benchmark for ten year 
vintage funds, where the returns are 3.5%, 
-4.8%, and -1.1% respectively for three, 
five and ten year funds.
 
chie F invest Ment OFFicer’ s r ePOrt
10 AppShare was formed in 2007 as a 
spin-out from the University of Strathclyde. 
The company is developing a collaborative 
software solution known as ‘ePlace’. The 
technology allows the sharing of software 
applications between users at different 
locations. The company currently has a 
working ePlace prototype, which will be 
developed over the next 12 months utilising 
funds raised from the recent investment. 
Spiral Gateway is a fabless 
semiconductor chip vendor incorporated  
in 2004 as a spin-out from the University  
of Edinburgh. The company is focused on 
the development of a computer processing 
platform known as Reconfigurable 
Instruction Cell Architecture (RICA).  
RICA is a method for processing 
multimedia, wireless and broadband 
computing tasks and will initially deliver 
new levels of flexibility and performance  
to a key segment of the Image Signal 
Processing (ISP) market. 
Conjunct was formed in 2003 as  
a start up from Heriot-Watt University.   
The company was established to develop 
disruptive technology for short range,  
high speed optical communications.  
Its proprietary technology ‘Fibre-Lyte’  
aims to offer benefits in the packaging  
of optical components in the data 
communications market, the size of which 
has typically been restricted due to the high 
cost and specification of components.
Portfolio Investments
Our investments are focused where there is potential for significant growth.
Investment Process
We receive a steady stream of investment 
opportunities from a variety of sources 
including our clients, via university 
partnering agreements, our website  
and professional advisers. 
Before we make a new investment we 
conduct rigorous due diligence on the 
investment prospect. Due diligence is 
predominantly carried out in-house but 
specialist consultants are typically used  
to validate technology and appraise market 
potential. This process ends with the issuing 
of an investment memorandum that is sent 
to our investment clients. They are then 
invited to meet the management teams  
of prospective portfolio companies and 
question any aspect of the investment 
proposition. Typically the whole process 
will take from two to three months.  
Our methodology, which we have refined 
over the past 11 years, provides a rigorous 
screening process and is one of the 
strengths of the Braveheart model.
Investment Strategy
We invest primarily in technology 
companies and we often start investment 
early in a company’s life. This means that 
we can take a meaningful position for a 
relatively modest amount of capital and  
increase our exposure as the investment 
heads towards an exit. 
We believe in strong corporate governance 
and a reporting regime from an early stage 
and, whilst we monitor our portfolio closely, 
we focus on managing and supporting the 
managers rather than managing the 
underlying businesses. 
We look for balance in terms of sector and 
stage within our portfolio, as is evidenced 
by the matrix shown on page 13.
 
The types of company in which we  
invest usually require a number of rounds  
of funding. This means that we have a 
strong follow-on policy, although we 
re-evaluate a company on each occasion  
it requires further funding. 
“ Current conditions 
would suggest that  
near-term exit 
opportunities will  
come via the trade  
sale route rather  
than the IPO route.”
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11 In situations where one of our portfolio 
companies has not met its technical or 
commercial milestones, we may hedge risk 
by providing short-term funding in the 
form of a convertible instrument. 
This table shows the portfolio companies 
that the Group and its clients have invested 
in (excluding the CPR portfolio) with the 
first year of investment by the Group  
and/or its clients and the number of rounds 
of equity funding that they have received. 
Company No. of Rounds Date of First Investment
Alivox Ltd 2 July 2005
AppShare Ltd 1 March 2008
Atlas Genetics Ltd 1 December 2007
Biopta Ltd 2 November 2004
Cascade Technologies Ltd 2 March 2006
Conjunct Ltd  1 March 2008
Design LED Products Ltd 2 March 2005
Dimensional Imaging Ltd 3 December 2005
Eastern Choice Ingredients Ltd* 2 March 2001
EctoPharma Ltd 1 March 2007
Edinburgh Robotics Ltd 2 February 2006
Elonics Ltd 1 February 2008
MicroEmissive Displays Group plc 3 March 2004
MicroStencil Ltd 2 April 2005
NiTech Solutions Ltd 1 December 2006
NXVision Ltd 2 September 2006
PSI Electronics Ltd 2 January 2006
Pufferfish Ltd 2 May 2006
Pyreos Ltd 1 December 2007
quantum Filament Technologies Ltd 2 April 2005
Spiral Gateway Ltd 2 September 2004
Tayside Flow Technologies Ltd 4 November 2002
The Capital Pub Company 2 plc 2 April 2004
The Capital Pub Company plc 2 May 2002
Traak Systems Ltd 1 August 2007
Virtual Well Engineer Ltd 1 March 2005
*No Group investment in this company   
c hieF invest Ment OFFicer’ s r ePOrt 
CONTINUED
Portfolio Investments
Our investments are focused where there is potential for significant growth.
Cascade Technologies 
is a spin-out from the University of 
Strathclyde. The company has created novel 
technology which uses quantum cascade 
lasers to provide breakthrough products 
that create instant DNA type fingerprints  
of gases, enabling their presence and 
quantity to be detected. The technology 
can be applied to multiple applications such 
as emissions monitoring in the marine and 
power generation industries, and the 
detection of explosives and chemical agents. 
Elonics was founded in 2003 and is 
based in Livingston. The company is a 
fabless mixed-signal semiconductor 
company specialising in the development 
and sale of multi-band radio frequency  
IC products. DigitalTune™ is the company’s 
flexible radio tuner chip platform that  
can be configured to support different 
standards and frequencies for a number  
of applications. It will initially be used to 
develop a flexible TV tuner component for 
portable and handheld devices offering the 
manufacturer low power consumption and 
low system costs. 
Traak Systems was founded in 
2005 and is a spin-out of the University  
of Edinburgh. It is developing intelligent 
self-learning radio frequency identification 
(RFID) and sensor network solutions for the 
growing RFID sector. RFID technology is 
commonly used in a wide variety of 
industries such as retail, transportation, 
logistics and healthcare. The company’s 
highly optimised solution will efficiently 
process the raw data from RFID tags in 
complex environments such as airports, 
hospitals and manufacturing plants. 
“ The types of company in 
which we invest usually 
require a number of 
rounds of funding.”
12 Forward Strategy 
In common with other investor groups,  
we are concerned about adverse change  
in the market place. Capital is already more 
scarce for publicly quoted technology 
companies and in time this will filter down 
into the unquoted sector.
 
This means two things for us: firstly,  
there will be good buying opportunities  
for new portfolio entities, and secondly,  
we are going to need to support our 
existing portfolio companies with more 
capital than perhaps we might have 
expected 12 months ago. Our forward 
investment strategy is therefore directed  
at making new investments only where  
we believe there is outstanding value to be 
had, and supporting our existing portfolio 
with our own balance sheet and via the 
partnering or co-investment arrangements 
we have in place. 
Carolyn Smith
Chief Investment Officer
Company Subsector 
Alivox Ltd Software & Computer Services 
AppShare Ltd Software & Computer Services 
Atlas Genetics Ltd Healthcare Equipment & Services 
Biopta Ltd Healthcare Equipment & Services 
Cascade Technologies Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
Conjunct Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Design LED Products Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Dimensional Imaging Ltd Software & Computer Services 
EctoPharma Ltd* Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 
Edinburgh Robotics Ltd Software & Computer Services  
Elonics Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
MicroEmissive Displays Group plc Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
MicroStencil Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
NiTech Solutions Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
NXVision Ltd Software & Computer Services 
PSI Electronics Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
Pufferfish Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Pyreos Ltd Technology Hardware & Equipment 
q uantum Filament Technologies Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Spiral Gateway Ltd Software & Computer Services 
Tayside Flow Technologies Ltd Healthcare Equipment & Services 
The Capital Pub Company 2 plc Travel & Leisure 
The Capital Pub Company plc Travel & Leisure 
Traak Systems Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Virtual Well Engineer Ltd Software & Computer Services 
CPR 
Adaptive Venture Managers Ltd Equity Investment Instruments 
Bloxx Ltd Software & Computer Services 
Hydrosense Ltd Support Services 
Intrallect Ltd Software & Computer Services 
Orkell Ltd Software & Computer Services 
Scalar Technologies Ltd Electronic & Electrical Equipment 
Verbalis Ltd Software & Computer Services   
Number 3 15 12 2
Seed
Early
Expansion
q uoted
Group’s Portfolio
The Group’s portfolio (including the CPR portfolio) comprised 32 companies as at the year end:
*Also a CPR company
Pyreos has developed a patented thin 
film pyro-electric ceramic technology for 
initial use in a new range of infra-red sensor 
products. The technology will initially be 
applied for use in mass market and high 
value specialist applications such as motion 
detectors, spectroscopy and infra-red 
cameras. The core technology and 
production process was developed at 
Siemens in Germany over a number of years 
and the company was formed in Edinburgh 
in July 2007. 
Atlas Genetics is a healthcare 
company formed in 2005 as a spin-out  
of Bath University. The company is 
developing a ‘point of care’ molecular 
diagnostic platform for the rapid detection 
of DNA. The company is currently working 
on tests for meningitis, chlamydia, Group B 
Streptococcus and the hospital superbug 
MRSA. The company’s novel, simple and 
low-cost method will give the clinician an 
immediate assessment in less than 30 
minutes from taking the patient sample. 
Bloxx is an established company that 
has developed and launched a new range 
of web filtering network appliances which 
help organisations proactively manage 
access to web content and prevent 
unsavoury websites reaching computer 
users. Using patented language analysis 
and intelligent identification techniques, 
the company’s Tru-View technology 
analyses and blocks websites quickly and 
accurately providing instant classification  
of web content as soon as it is accessed.
*Also a CPR company 
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 13
