 I have pleasure in presenting 
the results of Braveheart 
Investment Group for the 
year ended 31 March 2008, 
the first complete year since 
the admission of the 
Company’s shares to trading 
on AIM in March 2007 .
Results
I am pleased to report that the profit for  
the year before taxation was £106k 
compared to a pre-tax loss of £164k last 
year. This equates to earnings per share  
of 0.74p compared to a loss per share of  
1.6p last year.
Income from investment management 
operations, excluding bank interest, 
increased by 22% to £659k while bank 
interest amounted to £331k (2007: £49k). 
Gains and losses arising from fair value 
adjustments to balance sheet investments 
at the year end resulted in a net profit of 
£458k that has been recognised in the 
Group Income Statement.
The Group’s investment portfolio contains 
investments with preferential subscription 
terms. On exit, these terms usually entitle 
the Group to receive a multiple of its 
subscription monies before the remaining 
proceeds of sale are divided amongst all 
shareholders on a pro-rata basis. 
These preferential exit returns typically 
equate to a premium of 50% of the monies 
invested. In the year under review £541k 
was invested in eight companies through 
contracts employing such terms. Potential 
future value arising from these terms has 
not yet been recognised in the financial 
statements because their realisation is not 
sufficiently certain at this time. The directors 
believe that these arrangements represent 
an important source of potential future 
value that they expect will be realised over 
time. These arrangements are separate 
from any returns achieved by virtue of 
changes in value of the underlying asset. 
The Group ended the year with a strong 
balance sheet, having cash balances in 
excess of £4.8m and no debt.
Delivering on Our Plans
Last year I spoke about our plans for 
growing our business with the aid of the 
additional capital raised through our IPO.  
I am pleased to report that we have made 
good progress during the year under 
review in implementing these plans. 
In April 2007 we completed the acquisition 
of W L Ventures Ltd, now renamed 
Caledonia Portfolio Realisations Ltd,  
a portfolio of some 10 technology 
investments. Following a review of these 
underlying businesses, and an assessment 
of how we could best realise shareholder 
value, we are confident that this portfolio 
will show us a good return on our 
investment.
There are now 33 companies in the Group 
portfolio. During the year, the Group made 
six new investments and six follow-on 
investments in existing portfolio companies. 
c hair Man’s state Ment
4 The first closing of the Strathclyde 
Innovation Fund is expected to complete 
shortly. A draft prospectus for our fund for 
the University of Edinburgh is in preparation 
and we anticipate that that fund will have  
a first closing around the turn of the 
calendar year.
We have recently announced that we  
have entered into a partnership agreement 
with the University of Aberdeen. This 
agreement will enable Braveheart and the 
university to work together to stimulate 
the commercialisation of intellectual 
property emanating from the university. 
In return, Braveheart will have first refusal 
on commercial investment opportunities 
which flow from within the university.  
In the longer term it is anticipated that a 
dedicated fund will be established to 
finance these opportunities. The University 
of Aberdeen has strong commercialisation 
expertise in the areas of life science, 
medicine, engineering and geosciences 
and we are excited about developing this 
partnership’s potential.
Our business model is designed to  
deliver a surplus from our investment 
management operations, although there 
will be periods during which income lags 
behind expenditure as we invest in our 
management infrastructure. This has been 
the case in the year under review and will 
continue to be the case until income from 
the management of our dedicated 
university funds builds up.
Embedded Value
One of the most satisfactory developments 
of the year under review has been the 
value added to existing holdings within  
the portfolio. Strong advances were made 
by a number of companies, warranting 
further capital, and the opportunity was 
taken to increase the Group’s investment 
at prices representing good value.
Throughout our Annual Report there will 
be found descriptions of such companies, 
demonstrating the breadth of the services 
that they provide or are seeking to provide, 
and all linked by their origins in intellectual 
property developed within academia or 
industrial research centres. 
This is where our strategy starts to reap 
rewards; having funded start-up companies 
with a mixture of private and public sector 
money, our negotiated pre-emption rights 
enable us to increase the level of private 
client and balance sheet investment as they 
hit their pre-determined milestones and 
demonstrate their capacity to succeed in 
their respective marketplaces. 
This store of value is nurtured by a 
combination of advice and experience 
from our entrepreneurial client base,  
and capital where warranted, to maximise 
exit results.
Plans for Growth
Braveheart needs to grow to realise its full 
potential. Your Board has always been alert 
to this need and saw the move to AIM as the 
first step in that process. Intermittent turmoil 
in the financial market place over the past 
two years has hastened this objective as 
both institutional investors and private 
client brokers have raised their sights on 
the level of capitalisation required to 
attract investment.
In April we announced that we had 
approached the board of ANGLE plc,  
a company whose shares are traded  
on AIM, with a view to making a 
recommended share offer. ANGLE has  
a portfolio of investments in technology 
companies together with a management 
services division that has contracts in this 
country and overseas. Unfortunately it has 
not been possible, to date, to reach 
agreement with the board of ANGLE, but 
your board continues to explore means by 
which the shareholders of both companies 
might benefit from the linking of their 
activities. Other expansion opportunities 
are continuously under review.
Braveheart has established a well 
recognised and reputable business in 
Scotland and has a growing client base  
in the South. We intend to expand that 
southern client base and, with it, the group 
of successful entrepreneurs who are willing 
to work with the management of companies 
in which we invest. 
The success of our university relationships 
in Scotland and the features of the 
dedicated funds that are being established 
with them have attracted interest from 
universities in England. We have opened 
discussions with a number of institutions 
and, in the fullness of time, we look 
forward to establishing relationships that 
are tailored to the research outputs and 
requirements of individual establishments. 
“ The Group ended the 
year with a strong 
balance sheet, having 
cash balances in excess  
of £4.8m and no debt.”
Braveheart Investment Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 5 The Board believes that these initiatives, 
together with the establishment of an 
operational base in or around London,  
are key to Braveheart’s growth in the near 
term and the Group is supporting them 
with the necessary financial resources.
Board, Management and Staff 
I am delighted that Jeremy Delmar-Morgan 
has recently accepted an invitation to join 
the Board. Jeremy has had a distinguished 
City career, having been CEO and chairman 
of Teather & Greenwood and subsequently, 
from 2006, chairman of brokers Hichens, 
Harrison & Co. I am very pleased to welcome 
Jeremy and I am confident that he will 
make a valuable contribution to our  
Board debate.
Donald Turner and Shonaig Macpherson 
will be retiring from the Board at the AGM 
in September. I know that shareholders  
and colleagues will wish to join me in 
thanking them for their valuable 
contributions and support as Braveheart 
has emerged from a private ‘Angel’ 
syndicate into an AIM-listed company.  
We are indebted to them for the expertise 
and enthusiasm that they have brought  
to Board discussion.
The Board has now established a 
Nominations Committee. The Committee 
will review the composition of the Board, 
provide for the right balance of experience 
and skills, and ensure that there is continuity 
with regard to anticipated retirements.
We are fortunate in having experienced 
and dedicated members of staff who have 
worked as a well-knit team to deliver these 
results. I want to thank all of them for their 
individual contributions. Our management 
team, at a senior level, has been 
strengthened and further appointments 
can be expected in the near future.
Shareholders will be pleased to hear that  
at the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the 
Year (Scotland) awards ceremony in June, 
Geoffrey Thomson, our CEO, was given a 
special award by an independent judging 
panel, for the support given to Scotland’s 
emerging technology companies over  
the last decade.
Braveheart Clients
Many of Braveheart’s clients are successful 
entrepreneurs whose contributions to 
portfolio companies, as chairmen and 
non-executive directors, are all-important. 
Their skills and experience add value in the 
early stages as a company emerges from 
academia, through the development of a 
demonstrable product, and into periods of 
revenue growth when the structure of 
management teams and the selection  
of executives can be critical. I am grateful  
to them for their hard work which can 
often represent the difference between  
failure and success. The Board attaches 
particular importance to supporting  
these appointments and will continue  
to provide workshops, mentoring and 
networking opportunities.
Dividends
It remains the Board’s intention that,  
in future, and subject to the availability of 
distributable reserves, regular dividends 
should be paid out of investment 
management profits and special dividends 
should be paid where there are meaningful 
capital profits realised from the disposal  
of portfolio investments.
Prospects 
The current year has started with 
questionable economic prospects and  
with the financial markets unsympathetic 
towards small cap companies. However, 
these are the conditions in which a well 
regarded business such as Braveheart can 
secure good investment value. 
With our cash resources, and excellent 
market relationships, we are well placed  
to nurture and grow our existing portfolio 
of companies as we steer them towards an 
exit. Braveheart has always been open to 
exiting investments both through trade  
sale and IPO. Despite the current quoted 
market conditions we have no reason to 
believe that trade buyers will not be 
available to purchase portfolio assets at  
the opportune moment. 
These expectations, and the implementation 
of our growth strategy, should ensure that 
Braveheart continues to build value for 
shareholders, as has been the case since 
our business was founded 11 years ago. 
Annual General Meeting
The notice regarding the business to be 
dealt with at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting, to be held on 10 
September 2008, is set out on page 46.
Your directors are unanimously in favour  
of resolutions nos. 1 – 7 (inclusive), which 
they consider to be in the best interests of 
the shareholders as a whole. Accordingly, 
your directors recommend shareholders to 
vote in favour of those resolutions, as they 
intend to do in respect of their own 
beneficial shareholdings.
I look forward to welcoming those 
shareholders who are able to attend.
Garry S Watson
Chairman
c hair Man’s state Ment
CONTINUED
“ There are now  
33 companies in the 
Group portfolio.” 
6
