  My last report to 
shareholders was drafted 
early in December 2008. 
Since that date the carnage 
in the financial markets has 
continued unabated and 
Churchill’s wish made in 
1925 about preferring to  
see ‘finance less proud’ has 
certainly come to pass.
In addition, other sectors such as retail and 
property have felt the pain that hitherto had 
principally been felt by the financial services 
sector, of which we are a part. The economic 
world of the last three decades has changed, 
probably forever.
While some commentators tell us that  
we are through the worst of the recession  
I believe prudent investors will be bearish  
for some time to come and I do not see 
confidence returning to the financial system 
in short course. It is therefore particularly 
important that we continue to take a 
conservative and prudent approach to 
running our business, that we plan for the 
long term and that we have contingency 
plans for ‘rainy days’. 
Our financial results as outlined in this report 
continue to reflect the state of the markets 
and we have posted a loss after tax for the 
year of £1.25m (2008: £99,000 profit after 
tax). This loss comes mainly as a result of 
reduced fee income from investment clients 
and from a reduction in the aggregate value 
of our investment portfolio. However, the 
portfolio remains fundamentally strong and 
includes some potentially very valuable 
companies. In addition, our cash balances of 
£3.22m put us in a strong position, and we 
believe we are well placed to grow our 
business once more stable market conditions 
prevail. Colin Grant, our recently appointed 
Chief Financial Officer, expands on these 
results in his report on pages 6 to 7.
Our new London office has been active and 
our associated marketing activities have been 
well received. In addition, I was very pleased 
to announce the recent acquisition of Inkopo 
Ltd which provides growth opportunities  
in a new geographical location and extends 
the services the overall Group can provide  
to both the private and public sectors.
In these difficult times our main focus has 
been on the following:
Managing our cash •	
Supporting our existing portfolio •	
companies
Utilising more flexible investment •	
instruments
Positioning ourselves for growth when •	
markets stabilise, and
Looking for M&A opportunities where •	
we can add value 
These priorities have not changed from 
when I last reported to you. I will deal with 
each of these matters in turn:
Managing our cash
Despite our losses this year, we managed  
our balance sheet well and cash utilisation 
remained in line with last year. We pared 
back investment in new opportunities and, 
while continuing to support an increased 
number of portfolio companies, we reduced 
the typical unit investment size from our  
own balance sheet. During the year we 
moved away from setting up new strategic 
partnerships that are cash hungry and 
increased our focus on medium term 
opportunities that are revenue and cash 
generative. Our operating costs for the year 
under review included a number of one-off 
costs and with continued sound financial 
management our cash balances are 
sufficient to see the business through the 
medium term.
Supporting our existing  
portfolio companies
Both institutional and private investors have 
shown a heavily reduced appetite for 
investment in the current market conditions. 
This impacted directly on our portfolio and 
placed an increased responsibility on us to 
support our companies both with cash and 
management assistance, particularly regarding 
Chief Executive Officer’s Report
Business Review 4
BRAVEHEART INVESTMENT GROUP   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009 business strategy and fund raising. In the year 
the Group invested an aggregate of £1.06m 
into 15 existing portfolio companies and one 
new business. The investment in the new 
business was made early in the year. Carolyn 
Smith, our Chief Investment Officer, provides 
additional detail on our portfolio companies  
in her report on pages 8 to 10.
Utilising more flexible investment 
instruments
We have invested £508,000 by way of 
convertible loan notes this year, compared  
to £183,000 in the previous year. These 
instruments have a number of advantages: 
firstly they are easier to tranche, secondly 
they are faster and less expensive to arrange, 
and thirdly we can take security over the 
assets of the business thereby reducing our 
risk. Typically the interest income is rolled up 
and will be converted to equity, at a discount, 
at some future date. The flipside is that these 
instruments are not as tax efficient for private 
investors and the balance sheets of the 
portfolio companies concerned appear  
highly geared which can be a disadvantage  
in commercial matters. 
Positioning ourselves for growth 
when markets stabilise
As noted in our December 2008 statement 
your Board believes that shareholder value 
can best be achieved by scaling up the 
Group’s business. To this end we opened  
a London office last November. In the 
intervening months our director of marketing 
and myself have been working hard building 
our presence and brand in London and the 
Home Counties. As a result we have ongoing 
dialogue with a number of intermediaries 
regarding potential strategic alliances and we 
expect these discussions to bear fruit in the 
fullness of time. Our London office has 
quickly become a valuable resource to the 
Group and is the first part of our plan to 
increase our geographical coverage. 
Looking for M&A opportunities 
where we can add value
Over the last few months we have looked  
at a number of M&A opportunities and  
we have recently announced the acquisition  
of Inkopo Ltd. This acquisition gives us an 
operating base in the North of England which 
fits well with our two existing offices in 
Scotland and London. As well as owning  
a small portfolio of investments, Inkopo 
generates income from fund management, 
private client/business angel network 
management and management services.  
By working closely with Inkopo’s incumbent 
management team, we believe we can 
successfully grow this business. This acquisition 
has been structured in such a way that 
Inkopo’s management will benefit from 
growth while being tied in to the Group  
as a whole. 
We continue to look for other M&A 
opportunities and see good value in the 
market given the cash constraints of a 
number of advisory type businesses. 
Forward Strategy
Given the current market conditions, your 
Board is particularly focused on reviewing 
strategic options on a regular basis. Our key 
goals over the short and medium term are:
Continue to provide strong support to •	
our highly ranked portfolio companies
Complete the integration of Inkopo into •	
the Group and provide resources to 
enable that entity to fulfil its potential
Build our core business lines of fund •	
management, private client investment 
management and management services
Continue to look for additional M&A •	
opportunities where we can add value, 
and
Use our cash wisely •	
Outlook
At the time of writing there are early signs 
that the worst of the turmoil in the financial 
markets may be over. In my view it would be 
premature to take such a view as read. 
We have utilised our resources to put us into 
the best possible position going forward. 
Our offering now emanates from three 
offices (one this time a year ago) and we 
have added the provision of management 
services to our existing core businesses of 
private client investment management and 
fund management. 
We have a number of new opportunities 
presenting themselves to us and we expect 
further M&A activity or new business 
creation within the next 12 months.
When the market returns to more stable 
levels we will be first in the queue for an 
uptick in business. 
Geoffrey C B Thomson
Chief Executive Officer
Business Review 5
BRAVEHEART INVESTMENT GROUP   ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2009
Support
Offering experienced 
business people to 
assist with corporate 
development.
