 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Page 5
Annual Report and Accounts For the year ending September 2005
It is my great privilege and pleasure to be writing my first
annual statement as your Chairman. I became Chairman
at the end of May, two-thirds of the way through our year
and succeeded Sir Fred Holliday to whom I would like to
pay particular thanks for his sterling work. He held office
during an important period in our Company’s history and
his reasoned and thoughtful execution of his duties was
invaluable. I wish Sir Fred a happy and well deserved
retirement. 
The year under review has seen our Group return 
a robust performance in terms of both revenue and profits
growth. This has been achieved across our two main
income streams of Private Client Investment
Management and Corporate Broking. There have been 
a number of significant developments during the year
including the opening of our office in Belfast in February
2005. This marks our first venture in Ireland and the
progress made to date is most satisfactory. We were also
very pleased to have added Corporate Broking services to
our office in Birmingham. In addition we have recruited
five new teams to other locations throughout the Group.
A major part of our strength is our extensive branch
network and our emphasis that clients have both freedom
of choice and the ability to communicate directly with the
individual manager who looks after them.
Since becoming your Chairman I have visited each one of
our 34 branches and three operational centres and
without exception I have seen the dedication and team
spirit that prevails throughout. This is, of course, of
enormous importance as our people are our most
valuable asset without whom we would not be able to look
after our clients and the interests of our Shareholders. 
We operate in an environment where the impact of
regulation is significant both in terms of costs and
management time. Your Group remains committed to the
attainment of the highest standards of business practice
and is very conscious of the need to meet, if not exceed,
the requirements of the Financial Services Authority. At
the same time we share the widely held view that
regulation must be constructed and executed in a manner
that is sensible, practical and relevant. To this end we are
committed to working closely with the Regulator and
Government at various levels.
We operate in a market place that is sensitive to events
that may take place across the globe. Against that
background it is not easy or appropriate to make
short-term predictions about our markets but it remains
very much your Company’s objective to achieve steady
growth and returns for Shareholders.
What has been achieved in the year under review is due to
the exceptional hard work of my colleagues all around the
Group and the continued loyalty of our clients to whom I
must express sincere thanks. Since the year end we have
welcomed Simon Miller as a Non-Executive Director of
the Company, his considerable City experience will be
invaluable to the Board. He, John Hall, our Chief
Executive, with whom I am working very closely in the
transitionary period prior to his retirement, Robin Bayford,
our Finance Director and Vikram Lall who has given many
successful years to our corporate finance side, will be
standing for election or re-election at the 28 February
2006 Annual General Meeting. I commend their many and
varied talents to you.
Your Company is firmly committed to pursuing the
achievement of another good performance for the 
year ahead.
Jamie Matheson
30 November 2005
Chairman’s Statement
pp 01-07:pp 01-07  30/12/05  11:15 am  Page 5
