 Page 4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending September 2006
Chairman’s Statement
MAC_RF62742_B  2/1/07  13:35  Page 4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Page 5
Annual Report and Accounts  for the year ending September 2006
Chairman’s Statement
It gives me great pleasure to present to Shareholders
another set of robust figures. While market conditions
have been favourable there are a number of other factors
which have been significant in achieving the progress that
we have made. We have enjoyed the benefit of new teams
joining us both in London and elsewhere in our branch
network. We have also seen further migration from
advisory to discretionary management as well as enjoying
a steady inflow of new clients.
Our Corporate Broking operations produced a very strong
performance across the board. Not only has there been an
increased level of activity but also a marked increase in
the size of mandates won.
All this strengthens our conviction and belief in our
branch network and our emphasis on our clients having
both the freedom of choice and the ability to communicate
directly with the individual manager who looks after their
interests. During the year we opened an office in Keswick
and since the year end we have opened in Oxford and will
shortly be opening in Hereford. 
We continue to invest in infrastructure in order to ensure
that we provide an ever improving service to clients. The
year under review has seen a material investment in our
systems and in particular in the eXimius Data
Management service. 
After some twenty five years we had to accept that we had
finally outgrown our old London premises at 5 Giltspur
Street and we have been able to move to new premises at
12 Smithfield Street. While we remain in the same locale
the new premises offer a much improved working
environment both in which to meet and to look after
clients. It is a great credit to our personnel that this major
move was achieved with minimal disruption to the firm’s
efficient operations.
Your Group remains committed to the attainment of the
highest standards of business practice and is very
conscious of the need to meet the requirements of the
Financial Services Authority. At the same time we share
the widely held view that regulation must be constructed
and administered in a manner that is sensible, practical
and relevant. To this end we are committed to working
closely with the Regulator and Government at various
levels. 
We welcome the FSA’s decision to adopt a more principle
based regime for regulation.
At the time of the Interim Results I was able to report to
you the appointment of David McCorkell to the Board and
he is already making a significant contribution to the
affairs of your Company. As a new appointment he will be
standing for election at the Annual General Meeting on
23 February 2007. Standing for re-election will be Michael
Williams, our director responsible for the Group’s legal
matters who orchestrated the superb deal which enabled
us to move into 12 Smithfield Street. 
Two of our Non-Executive Directors are also standing for
re-election: Nick Hood, Senior Independent Director and
Deputy Chairman; and Jock Worsley, Chairman of the
Audit Committee; I commend them to you.
I am very pleased to be able to tell you that our Chief
Executive, John Hall, has recently been appointed
Chairman of our Trade Association APCIMS, where we are
confident he will make a significant contribution in the
leadership of our industry. APCIMS has recently been at
the forefront of negotiations in Brussels and with the FSA,
in seeking to reduce the impact of the introduction of
MiFID and increase the relevance of the proposals.
As ever it would be foolhardy to become overly involved in
short term predictions about our markets but we remain
committed to pursuing the Company’s objective of
achieving steady growth and returns for Shareholders
through the provision of a quality service to our clients.
As is always the case, the results achieved in the year
under review have been done so thanks to the hard work
of our people and the continued support of our clients.
Once again your Company is firmly committed to pursuing
the achievement of a satisfactory outcome for the year
ahead.
Jamie Matheson
28 November 2006
MAC_RF62742_B  2/1/07  13:35  Page 5
