 Page 4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending September 2007
Executive Chairman’s Statement
I am very pleased to be able to report another year of
significant progress for your Company. Market conditions
have again been favourable for the most part but this
should not disguise the underlying growth the Group has
achieved.
We have also seen the benefit of business brought in by
teams that have joined the Group in the last year or two
and new teams continue to join us. During the period, we
opened new offices in Oxford, Hereford, Plymouth,
Swansea and York. Since the year end we have opened an
office in Chester and now have a total of 39 branches.
Investment Management
There has been further growth in discretionary funds
under management as well as an increase in our client
base. Even more encouragingly we believe we are seeing
an uplift in the proportion of clients’ wealth that we are
managing. Total funds under our management have
reached £21.6 billion of which the discretionary element
has risen to £10.7 billion and we remain the largest
independent investment manager for private clients
in the UK.
Investment Banking
Our Investment Banking division had a particularly strong
year. However, we were all very saddened by the sudden
death of our Head of Corporate Broking, Frank Malcolm.
Frank was a senior Director of your Company’s main
operating Board and made a very significant contribution
during all his years with the Group. He is sadly missed.
Following Frank’s death, Graeme Summers took over
responsibility for this division and while this appointment
may not have taken place at the time originally envisaged,
it was very much in Frank’s mind that Graeme should be
his successor.
Investment Banking reached new highs not only in terms
of income and profitability but also in levels of activity. A
number of both primary and secondary issues were
successfully completed, including Superglass and our
biggest ever fund-raising, eaga plc. Brewin Dolphin
Investment Banking was voted Broker of the Year 2007 at
the Investors Chronicle AIM Investment Awards, in
association with the FT. We look forward to its continued
expansion.
New regulation
As a Group we have continued to invest significantly in
systems and infrastructure but we have also had to devote
very considerable resource in order to implement new
regulation, in particular MiFID (the European Markets in
Financial Instruments Directive). This has imposed a
significant additional burden on people all across the
Group and our clients and I must record my appreciation
of the hard work and patience that has been put into this
very onerous exercise which probably marks the biggest
regulatory change to affect our market since “Big Bang”
in 1986.
Board Changes
New Directors
During the year your Board was very pleased to be able to
accept the recommendation of the Nominations
Committee that Sir Stephen Lamport KCVO and Angela
Knight CBE be appointed as Non-Executive Directors.
Sir Stephen has served in the Diplomatic Service and The
Prince of Wales’s Household. He was appointed Private
Secretary and Treasurer to The Prince of Wales in October
1996. He has, since October 2002, been Group Director for
Public Policy and Government Affairs for The Royal Bank
of Scotland. Sir Stephen has already made a meaningful
contribution to the affairs of your company since his
appointment and I am pleased to commend his election at
the forthcoming AGM.
Angela Knight, Chief Executive of the British Bankers
Association, has also made a significant contribution to
the Board since her appointment this summer. She was
Chief Executive of our trade association APCIMS for nine
years, until December 2006 and gained an immense
knowledge of our industry. It gives me great pleasure to
commend her election at the forthcoming AGM.
Since the year end two executives of the Company have
been appointed to the Board, namely Sarah Soar and
Barry Howard. Sarah is head of our biggest branch,
London and is Regional Managing Director of our
Southern branches. She also has responsibility for
business development.
Barry Howard has held the post of Group Compliance
Director and as such has been ex-officio a member of the
MAC_RF63187_B  18/12/07  12:17  Page 4 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Page 5
Annual Report and Accounts  for the year ending September 2007
Executive Chairman’s Statement
Board for a number of years. Both these individuals
exercise their duties and responsibilities with diligence,
energy and charm and make excellent additions to your
Board.
Vikram Lall
Vikram Lall joined the Board when the Group acquired
Bell Lawrie in 1993 and was responsible for our Corporate
Finance activities until becoming a Non-Executive
Director in 2003. After fifteen years service Vikram has
decided to retire from the Board at the AGM. During his
time with the Group, Vikram has made a very valuable
contribution and we shall certainly miss his incisive and
unique advice.
John Hall
Since the year end, John Hall has relinquished his
position as Chief Executive and will be retiring from the
Board at the forthcoming AGM. It is near impossible to
describe the extraordinary contribution that John Hall has
made to Brewin Dolphin. He is very much the father of the
firm and has been at the helm during the years in which it
has grown to become the United Kingdom’s largest
independent investment manager for private clients.
John has led the Group with vision, wisdom, resolve,
charm and kindness which will be impossible to replace in
any one individual. On behalf of clients, shareholders and
everyone who has or does currently work within our Group
I thank John for his inspired leadership and all he has
done for us.
While John may be retiring from the Board he does not of
course leave our industry as he continues to serve as the
Chairman of our trade association APCIMS, which plays a
vital role in representing us and our peers both in the City
and to Government at Westminster and Brussels.
New Management Structure
I now have the following five pillars of management
reporting to me:
• David McCorkell, Head of Investment Management
(as of 1 October 2007).
• Graeme Summers, Head of Investment Banking.
• Simon Still, Chief Operating Officer.
• Robin Bayford, Finance Director.
• Barry Howard, Head of Regulation.
Conclusion
The results in the year under review have been achieved
thanks to the hard work of our people and the continued
support of our clients, for which we are extremely
grateful. Against a background of a volatile market, the
new year to September 2008 has started satisfactorily. We
remain committed as ever to pursuing the Company’s
objective of achieving long-term growth and returns for
Shareholders through the provision of a high-quality
service to all our clients.
Jamie Matheson
27 November 2007
MAC_RF63187_B  18/12/07  12:17  Page 5 Annual Report and Accounts for the year ending September 2007
New Offices Opened During The Year
Page 6 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC
Plymouth
Oxford
Swansea
Hereford
York
MAC_RF63187_B  18/12/07  12:17  Page 6
