 “The business is in great shape, with the foundations and resources to pursue 
our growth ambitions. Our belief in the long-term growth prospects for the 
industry is stronger than ever. ” 
Key to strategic and financial objectives
1
 
Revenue Growth
2
 
Improved Efficiency
3
 
Capital Sufficiency
4
 
Dividend Growth
Biographies of each Director are 
shown on pages 46 and 47
Progress and opportunity
The Group has a number of core strengths which, collectively, 
provide a sound foundation for future growth. Our success lies in 
the quality of the advice we provide and the strength of our client 
relationships, which are mutually reinforcing. Both of these things 
are rooted in the skills and culture of our people, and as such 
are difficult to replicate. We benefit from our scale, and being a 
large business in a substantial but fragmented sector. This scale 
gives us the foundations and resources to pursue both our 
growth ambitions and absorb the impact of regulatory changes. 
The Group has great potential and is well placed to take 
advantage of available opportunities and create further value.
In September 2015, we hosted our first capital markets briefing 
at which we discussed in detail our plans to continue to grow 
the firm into the UK’ s leading discretionary wealth manager. 
I was delighted to welcome so many to the event, to share our 
vision and ambition about the future as well as introducing some 
members of our wider management team.
We operate in a dynamic market that presents both opportunities 
and challenges. We have traditionally served older, wealthier 
client groups, and there are opportunities to gain more of 
existing clients’ funds and to secure further clients in this group. 
We are seeing the market evolve as more people seek more 
advice to better understand the options available to them. 
These individuals, often younger, are saving and acquiring wealth, 
and need new approaches and ways of engaging. A constant, 
however, is the need for personally delivered advice, which has 
always been at the core of our approach. We also recognise that 
future clients currently have fewer assets today than a traditional 
wealth manager might usually address. We are developing 
different products to attract such high potential clients at an 
earlier stage in their lives, thereby seeding tomorrow’ s business 
and assets. Undoubtedly, the relationship will be supported 
by technology.
Wealth in the UK continues to grow in tandem with the economic 
recovery, and we are competing for a greater share of a growing 
market. Both regulatory and fiscal reforms are driving changes in 
behaviour, and the UK savings and pensions market is evolving 
rapidly. The changes under Pensions Freedoms; reduced 
Lifetime Allowances, and increased ISA allowances, have made 
the need for advice and guidance all the more pertinent and 
there is a growing number of people who are seeking wealth 
management services for the first time. Client behaviour is 
also changing; clients are more focused on finding solutions to 
16
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT Strategic  
Report
Governance Financial  
Statements
Additional 
Information
achieve their goals, rather than focusing solely on investment 
performance. Our highly personalised approach to wealth and 
investment management is, we believe, well placed to meet 
these needs. We also recognise the ‘advice gap’ and are 
developing alternative delivery mechanisms to allow us to assist 
those with smaller portfolios.
Financial performance
Underlying financial performance continues to improve 
with adjusted profit before tax (‘PBT’) increasing by 7% to 
£62.2 million (2014: £58.4 million), reflecting both the growth 
in discretionary FUM, leading to revenue growth despite weak 
investment market conditions and the benefits of a more efficient 
business reflected in flat operating costs. The efficiency of 
the business continues to improve as we invest in our internal 
processes and systems, and the increased adjusted profit 
margin to 21.9% from 20.8% in the previous year, illustrates this. 
We also continue to meet our financial objectives for maintaining 
sufficient capital, with regulatory capital resources increasing by 
£4.2 million to £145.3 million, and growing our dividend, by 21% 
to 12.0p per share.
Progress against strategic objectives
Over the course of the year, the business has performed well and 
made good progress against the strategic objectives. 
1
  
Growing our revenue
We are making good progress through our focus on generating 
improved and sustainable organic growth. We understand our 
current and target clients and their needs, and are developing 
further services to meet those needs. This involves improving the 
awareness of our brand with specific target groups, and evolving 
the services we offer. We have the people, national presence 
and operating model to deliver effectively. We are focused 
on distribution and taking advantage of our scale in delivery, 
increasing the ability of our advisers to spend more time on 
client facing activities. 
Multiple initiatives are underway to attract new clients and to 
ensure that we can sustainably achieve the 5% discretionary 
net inflow target. These include a focus on sales and distribution 
further driving direct client organic growth, complementing 
the strong growth rates we are achieving in the intermediaries 
business. Other initiatives enable increased effort on sales; 
including a new redesigned sales training programme, the 
deployment of client relationship management tools, and 
adjustments to the compensation model to incentivise direct 
client growth. 
We focus on providing the best outcome for our clients by 
understanding their needs. Increasingly, a client sees good 
performance as their ability to reach their goals and it is our role 
to help them reach those goals. This relies on delivering the 
required investment performance and effective financial planning.
We are researching the needs of private clients in greater depth, 
identifying target client segments where we are well positioned 
to win business. We have a strong presence in our traditional 
client base, although there remains room to grow, particularly as 
wealth passes from generation to generation. We are developing 
specific approaches for those who are accumulating wealth, 
through their salaried success or business ownership, and are 
enhancing our services so that we are well positioned to attract 
these types of clients.
We continue to enhance the services that we provide to clients. 
2015 has seen the rollout and completion of an enhanced client 
advice process. This provides an impartial assessment of attitude 
to risk, and is needs, not investment, focused. This transparent 
process supports clients in trusting us on a broader range of 
issues. A survey conducted showed that clients responded 
positively to the process, with 85% of clients agreeing or 
strongly agreeing with the statement “the process of reassessing 
my financial goals was clearly explained and I understood 
the process”.
“ I am amazed how accurately the 
client service review reflects my 
needs and attitude to risk. Very 
perceptive. It has helped me to 
consider my financial position 
with a better perspective. ” 
 Client feedback 
17
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview High quality advice, provided by Financial Planners, is available 
in all our offices. They continue to work with a greater number of 
clients providing advice on investment protection and retirement 
requirements. This enables us to offer a full service to clients to 
ensure that they receive the right service for their needs, whether 
that is our full bespoke discretionary service or access to our 
model portfolios. Financial planning leads to the firm advising 
on a greater share of an individual’ s assets, accelerating the 
acquisition and retention of FUM.
We are investing in a solution to work with professional services 
firms as introducers. This segment is currently under-served 
by the wealth management industry and we aim to exploit this 
opportunity by strengthening links with lawyers and accountants, 
broadening the services we offer them. We already work 
with many law and accountancy firms, providing services 
to their clients, giving us a strong base from which to grow. 
Research suggests the market size in this area is considerable.
We have built a strong service for financial intermediaries, or 
agents, understanding the needs of these clients, and have 
achieved much success working with over 1,300 adviser 
firms. We have £5.6 billion of discretionary FUM sourced via 
intermediaries, and through a dedicated national sales force.
We are expanding our Managed Portfolio Service (‘MPS’) range 
and developing our technological capabilities for agents to make 
outsourcing more efficient. We are focused on increasing our 
market share of new business invested into model portfolios 
by advisers. 
In April 2015, we launched Brewins Portfolio Service (‘BPS’) 
on the BrewinsDirect platform, which widens our offering by 
providing a non-advisory investment service for clients with 
smaller sums to invest. This service will evolve, as it grows, and it 
will help in our offer to attract tomorrow’ s core clients.
Our national office network is a source of strength allowing us to 
deliver a personalised service, and providing a local presence, 
which is key to attracting new business. This is supported by 
both local and national activities, including the sponsorship of the 
Chelsea Flower Show and the Goodwood Revival. 
We led the way on transparency when the Retail Distribution 
Review (‘RDR’) was implemented and continue to do so 
by providing a clear explanation of fees. We believe that 
transparency is a clear point of differentiation and opportunity. 
In August 2015, The Sunday Times named the Group as one 
of only 11 of the top 100 financial advisers who publish their 
charges online. We will continue to lead on transparency for 
our clients.
In 2016, we will update our Client Portal and launch an App for 
tablets and smartphones, providing convenience and easier 
access for clients. We are planning to trial ‘Skype for business’ to 
provide advice at home for our clients. 
2 Maintaining an efficient operating model
The ‘measuring our performance’ section of this report shows 
the five KPIs that are used to measure the progress being made 
to improve the efficiency of our operating model. I am pleased 
that all five of the measures are trending in the right direction.
The adjusted PBT margin brings together the other efficiency 
measures, and confirms the efficiency improvements in both 
our client facing teams and corporate functions. Further detail is 
provided in the Results section on page 21.
The increase in discretionary income per CF30, discretionary 
FUM per CF30 and average client portfolio size all demonstrate 
the improvement in productivity of our Investment Managers and 
Financial Planners.
Operating model
We continue to simplify and strengthen our operating model 
with a view to increasing efficiency and improving client service. 
An increased focus on primary services, harnessing technology 
to lower costs and ongoing cost discipline is also a key focus for 
us in increasing efficiency.
During the year the Brighton office was merged into our Reigate 
office, and the Norwich office was merged into Ipswich, creating 
an enlarged East Anglia office. In November 2015, we merged 
the T aunton office into the Exeter office. We have 27 offices; 25 in 
the United Kingdom, and offices in Jersey and Dublin. We have 
created a network from which we can provide larger teams of 
Investment Managers integrated with Financial Planners, enabling 
us to offer clients a broader range of services.
Focus on primary services
In May 2015, we agreed the sale of Stocktrade, our Execution 
Only division, to Alliance Trust Savings Limited for £14 million in 
cash, payable in full on completion. The sale, which is expected 
to complete in 2016, is aligned with our strategy of focusing on 
our core wealth management business. 
Technology
The Group’ s approach to technology is to utilise recognised 
industry wide software on a modular basis with the appropriate 
functionality. We have adopted an incremental approach to our 
technology implementation strategy, seeking to avoid significant 
customisation, thereby reducing both risk and cost. 
Ongoing developments to our technology and infrastructure 
are key drivers of planned further improvements in efficiency. 
A strong technology platform will provide benefits internally 
and externally, freeing up the time of our Investment Managers 
and Financial Planners, and ensuring that we have the ability to 
support clients and ensure they get the best possible service.
18
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT CONTINUED Strategic  
Report
Governance Financial  
Statements
Additional 
Information
Progress against financial objectives
I am also pleased to report the following progress against our 
financial objectives.
3
  
Maintaining sufficient capital
The Group has a target capital adequacy ratio of a minimum 
of 150%. The Group met its financial objective of maintaining 
sufficient capital, with a year end ratio of 248%, compared 
to 241% the previous year. The stronger ratio arises from 
a £4.2 million increase in regulatory capital resources from 
£141.1 million to £145.3 million.
The Group continually assesses the appropriate amount of 
capital resources, to ensure that it is both well placed to take 
advantage of opportunities that present themselves, and has an 
adequate capital buffer against potential risks.
4 Growing our dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.25p per share, 
bringing the total dividend for the year to 12.0p per share. 
The total dividend of 12.0p per share represents an increase 
of 21% on the prior year (2014: 9.9p per share). The payout 
ratio is 70% of adjusted diluted EPS, and is in line with the 
dividend policy announced two years ago; a target payout ratio 
of 60% to 80% of adjusted diluted EPS. The payout ratio of 
70% (2014: 62%) is reflective of the Board’ s confidence in the 
Group’ s prospects for further sustainable growth in earnings and 
ensures that shareholders benefit accordingly from the growth in 
underlying earnings.
People
We continue to invest in the development of the Group’ s 
employees. We are developing a culture which is ambitious and 
focused on growth, achieved through collaboration between our 
Investment Managers, Financial Planners and the strengthened 
corporate functions. We have an active programme of learning 
and development to ensure our people are equipped with the 
appropriate skills.
Our approach to employee reward recognises their importance 
to the success of the business; ensuring alignment with our 
strategy, and the appropriate risk and behavioural accountability. 
The aim is to ensure participation in the value created by 
the business.
As part of the drive to engage with employees and understand 
their needs, and ultimately improve performance, this summer 
we conducted our first employee engagement survey, called 
‘Your Future, Your Say’, covering a broad range of subjects. 
This is the beginning of what will be an ongoing project and 
engagement action plans are being put in place. 
Looking ahead
We have achieved a great deal and I am confident that our 
progress to date in refining our strategy and business model 
will further help us deliver our long-term goals. We are now 
in a position to capitalise on these achievements and pursue 
our strategy for strong growth. We are investing in our organic 
growth strategy, and have plans in place that will enable us to 
deliver this growth. The Group has great potential, a genuine 
desire to help clients achieve their goals, extensive advisory 
and investment management skills, and, together with the 
advantages of our scale and financial strength, means we are 
well placed to take advantage of the opportunities to grow the 
business and create value for all of our stakeholders. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my colleagues 
across the Group for their positive approach and their 
extraordinary commitment to our clients, particularly during the 
many internal changes over the past three years. I am extremely 
grateful for their skill and dedication, and am confident that we 
are all relishing our further growth prospects.
David Nicol
Chief Executive
1 December 2015
19
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview
