 Biographies of each Director are 
shown on pages 46 and 47
Dear Shareholder,
This has been another year of solid achievement, once again demonstrating 
the strength of the business. We continually strive to be a more efficient client 
focused business that is responsive to a changing market and client needs.
Overview 
Over the past two and a half years, management have 
successfully taken steps to strengthen and enable the Group 
to drive sustainable growth and to focus on creating value 
for shareholders. 
The Board views wealth management as an attractive part of 
the financial services sector. The sector continues to change 
in response to a variety of pressures, including consumer 
preferences, regulation, pricing and technology and it is therefore 
important that the business is capable of adapting to changing 
circumstances. The Board believes that, with a network of expert 
Investment Managers and Financial Planners, the Group is well 
positioned to prosper in the current emerging environment.
Progress
The Group has had a good year. Its performance and its 
resilience mean that it is well equipped to operate in the dynamic 
regulatory and competitive environment. Against a backdrop 
of market volatility and industry change, I believe that David 
Nicol and his team have made good progress in equipping the 
business for future growth.
This work is now substantially complete and the growth of 
the business is an important objective for the current year. 
Brewin Dolphin has many talented people working within the 
organisation and ensuring that we have the right skills and talent 
will be a critical part of this process.
Our strategy is to focus on the core business of discretionary 
wealth management. T o this end the Group’ s stake in 
Euroclear plc, the largest settlement system for securities 
transactions, was sold for £10.2 million during the year, and 
the sale of Stocktrade, the Group’ s Execution Only division, 
to Alliance Trust Savings Limited for £14.0 million, has been 
announced. It is expected that the sale of Stocktrade will 
complete in 2016.
Dividend history: 
pence per share
7.15p
8.60p
9.90p
12.00p
2015 2012 2013 2014
3.55p 3.55p
3.65p 3.75p
3.60p
5.05p
6.25p
8.25p
04
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Governance
The Board has the right balance of skills and experience to 
set the tone of the business and to challenge and support the 
Executive management team.
Kath Cates joined the Board in December 2014. She has 
brought with her a wealth of experience in risk and operational 
matters and has recently become the Chairman of the Board 
Risk Committee replacing Angela Knight, who has performed the 
task with dedication and skill in the past three years.
In addition to their principal role as an independent Director, each 
Non-Executive Director has a specific role within the Group. 
Angela Knight is the Senior Independent Director, Ian Dewar is 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Paul Wilson is Chairman of 
the Remuneration Committee, and Kath Cates is Chairman of 
the Board Risk Committee. Caroline T aylor is the Chairman of 
the new Corporate Responsibility Committee, which although 
not a committee of the Board, is of increasing importance. 
Their respective roles provide them and the Board with added 
insight into the workings of the business. The Committees they 
serve on undertake considerable work and are integral to the 
smooth running of the business.
Our people
Our success lies in the hands of around 1,900 individuals who 
work at Brewin Dolphin. On behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank them all for their hard work and commitment over 
the course of what has been a demanding year. The Board is 
conscious that these people are the Group’ s greatest asset and 
it must ensure that it focuses on retaining and developing a deep 
pool of diversified talent.
Our employees and our offices have long had a commitment to 
charitable activities. Being responsible and doing the right thing 
is an integral part of the Brewin Dolphin culture. In this context, 
during the course of the last 12 months, we have relaunched our 
corporate responsibility programme with the objective of building 
on the existing practices and further embedding them across 
the Group.
Shareholders
We aim to maintain an effective and regular dialogue with our 
shareholders. The views of our shareholders are welcome and 
help shape our decision making.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.25p per share, to 
be paid on 11 March 2016 to shareholders on the register on 
19 February 2016. As a Board we aim to pay out between 60% 
and 80% of earnings and this year the figure amounts to 70%, 
an increase on the 62% we paid last year. This will bring the 
total dividend for the period to 12.0p per share (2014: 9.9p), 
demonstrating confidence in the Group’ s growth prospects 
and outlook.
This year’ s AGM will be held at 11.30am on 5 February 2016 at 
the Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincoln’ s Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED. 
If you are unable to attend and wish to raise an issue, please do 
write to me and I will ensure you receive a timely answer.
Simon Miller
Chairman
1 December 2015
05
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic  
Report
Governance Financial  
Statements
Additional 
Information 06
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015 STRATEGIC 
REPORT
In this section
08  Business Overview
10   Business Model
12  Market Environment
14   Our Strategy
16   Chief Executive’s Statement
20 Measuring Our Performance
23 Results
30  Principal Risks and Uncertainties
34  Corporate Responsibility
40 Resources and Relationships
07
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC   
Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Overview Strategic  
Report
Governance Financial  
Statements
Additional 
Information
