 20     Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REPORT
Mark Cloutier 
Chief Executive Officer
2014 HAS BEEN A LANDMARK YEAR FOR BRIT, MARKING 
OUR RETURN AS A PUBLICLY LISTED COMPANY AND 
DELIVERING ANOTHER STRONG SET OF RESULTS,  
A SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENT GIVEN THE SHIFTING 
MARKET DYNAMICS. SINCE OUR DECISION TO 
REPOSITION THE BUSINESS, WE HAVE RELENTLESSLY 
FOCUSED ON DEVELOPING A PLATFORM THAT IS 
ALIGNED WITH OUR KEY OBJECTIVE OF LONG-
TERM VALUE CREATION WHILE RETAINING A HIGHLY 
DISCIPLINED APPROACH TO THE BUSINESS WE CHOOSE 
TO UNDERWRITE IN THE SHORT -TERM. 
Our model allows us to ‘see the difference’ and our recent 
track record is a strong vindication of what we have set out 
to achieve. It also gives us a clear path to deliver our key 
business objective: to maximise long-term value creation for 
shareholders by leveraging our differentiating Lloyd’s-only 
platform and leading global specialty franchise to deliver the 
best insurance solutions to complex risks faced by our clients.
We closed the year with healthy growth in our business and 
delivered very strong total value creation of £139.2m with a 
20.7% return on net tangible assets (excluding FX and IPO 
costs); our third year in a row of sector-leading returns in 
excess of 18.5%. The results discussed in this, our first annual 
report since our IPO, are a credit to the entire Brit team. They 
have worked tirelessly throughout the year, staying focused  
on the fundamentals that we consider key to generating long-
term shareholder value and ensuring that our clients always 
see the difference in partnering with Brit.
We were very pleased to announce on 17 February 2015 
an offer for the business from Fairfax. Our business is 
complementary to the Fairfax group’s current offering and 
the deal represents an exciting opportunity for us to continue 
our story on an even stronger footing, for the benefit of both 
companies, our employees, customers and trading partners. 
It will give Brit access to Fairfax’s existing relationships and 
expertise in the international insurance and reinsurance 
markets, allowing us to enhance our global product offering. 
Financial highlights 
In 2014, we delivered against the targets set out at the time 
of the IPO and continue to capitalise on profitable growth 
opportunities.
• We continue to create value for our stakeholders. In spite 
of challenging market conditions we have produced 
a RoNTA of 20.7% and the total value we created was 
£139.2m. Underwriting and investment performance both 
contributed to this result;
• Our underwriting operations generated a profit of £102.0m 
and produced a combined ratio of 89.5%.
 – Our premium growth of 9.8% (15.0% at constant rates 
of exchange), is driven by new business from the new 
teams and initiatives put in place from 2012 to 2014.  
We have also seen organic growth in a few selected  
lines where rating conditions remain attractive such as 
US binder business and some other specialty classes;
 – The overall risk-adjusted trend in pricing is a decrease of 
2.9%, which is in line with our projection at the time of 
the IPO and our guidance repeated at half year. The price 
falls in treaty reinsurance were marked and occurred early 
in the year as the bulk of our reinsurance book renews in 
the first six months. The insurance business pricing was 
more resilient with an overall decrease in rates of 1.6%, 
justifying our strategy to focus on insurance business 
where our expertise is highly valued. While we are not 
alone in experiencing rating declines, we are happy with 
the rating adequacy of our overall portfolio;
 – Our claims experience has been in line with expectation 
and, while we have sustained some losses from natural 
catastrophes (e.g. Hurricane Odile) and man-made events 
(e.g. the Tripoli airport attack), the claims environment has 
been benign. Our attritional claims experience and the 
development of our prior year reserves have been in line 
with the guidance offered at the time of our IPO. Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014     21     
STRATEGIC REPORT
• We have generated investment return net of fees ahead 
of our guidance at 2.9% and have benefited from falling 
yields and the tightening of credit spreads that have driven 
unrealised gains in our government and corporate credit 
weighted portfolios. We have shortened the duration of  
our portfolio in a defensive move against expected interest 
rate rises and we therefore believe we are well-positioned 
for 2015;
• We are well capitalised with resources amounting to 
150.4% of the capital we need to meet regulatory 
requirements. As indicated at the time of our IPO, we are 
and will continue to be active managers of our capital and, 
in line with our guidance, will make a special dividend of 
£50.1m to bring our surplus position back to the upper end  
of the 120% to 140% range;
• In 2014, we successfully completed the commutation 
of a portfolio reinsurance transaction relating to the 
restructuring of the Group in 2012. We are pleased to 
have commuted on favourable terms, bringing closure 
on a portfolio of long-tail liability reserves including those 
related to the financial crisis. This transaction marked the 
final element of the major restructuring of the business 
undertaken since 2011 by Brit’s new management. 
Focus on the fundamentals
At Brit we focus on five core fundamentals that drive 
our overarching business objective: continuing to take 
advantage of our differentiating Lloyd’s-only operating 
platform; delivering sustainable and profitable underwriting 
performance (which includes the claims component of our 
business); focused growth; dynamic asset management; and 
strong capital management. While we discuss all of these in 
some detail elsewhere in this Strategic Report, I will provide 
some additional perspective here.
Underwriting
Underwriting profitability lies at the heart of our strategy. 
Evidence of that commitment is seen not only in this year’ s very 
strong claims ratio but in the reduction in our attritional loss 
ratio over the last five years, as shown in the graph above.
Under Matthew Wilson’s leadership, in what can best be 
described as a challenging environment, underwriting 
performance of £1,302.1m premium income and a claims 
ratio of 50.0% again proved the wisdom of writing a 
diversified portfolio of specialty classes. We saw good 
top line growth in 2014, predominantly from new teams 
and initiatives, however we continue to maintain a highly 
disciplined approach to organic growth, particularly given 
market conditions and outlook. 
In volatile market conditions, the ability to draw on underwriting 
experience, sophisticated technical pricing tools and long-term 
trading relationships to grow or reduce exposures depending 
upon terms and conditions available by business class, is critical 
to optimising shareholder returns. Over the past six years we 
have consistently enhanced our product set, as well as the skills 
of our underwriting community. As a result, we were very well 
positioned to meet the challenges of the market conditions 
we faced in 2014 – and will continue to see going forward. 
Matthew goes into more detail on performance and outlook in 
our underwriting review on page 26.
The London market should be a centre of innovation: offering 
products that are responsive to new and emerging forms of 
risk. We believe the best response to excess capacity is to 
create demand through the development of new products for 
emerging needs, rather than allowing that excess capacity to 
cause us to give away our margins. 
Brit set an excellent example of such innovation in 2014 with 
the roll-out of our new cyber-attack cover – targeted at first 
party physical damage and business interruption loss arising 
40
50
60
70
80
2009 2010 2012 2013 2014 2011
Attritional ratio (%)
‘
In spite of the challenging  
market conditions we produced  
a RoNTA of 20.7% and the total  
value we created was £139.2m.
’ 22     Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014
from a cyber-attack. We are proud of this development for 
several reasons:
• For 325 years the London market has been a place of 
innovation in the specialty insurance sector. As a firm that 
sells itself as a Lloyd’s-based specialty insurance business, 
this major innovation from Brit makes a clear statement 
about the continued relevance and importance of the 
London market;
• The success of this initiative will again prove the need  
for – and importance of – a syndicated market for the  
placement of complex and new forms of risk, whereby 
products can be developed and enhanced through a 
broad distribution of those risks across different forms  
of capacity providers;
• The product development work by the Brit team is 
tangible evidence of our talent, collaboration and intent. 
Furthermore, the support of the market resulting in excess 
of US$350m of consortia capacity clearly reinforces Brit as  
a leader in the development of specialty products.
In tandem with our underwriting performance, delivery of  
a first class accurate claims service to our clients is key to our 
success. During the year we continued to strengthen our  
claims offering with a number of new hires, deepening our skill 
set and expanding the experience base in support of the new 
initiatives we implemented. We have also led innovation within 
the claim side of the business through the introduction of a 
fast track arbitration clause that will greatly enhance the client’s 
experience on complex issues, with a more cost effective and 
robust solution to potential conflict points. This is unique to 
Brit and has been well received in the market.
Looking ahead, we expect that trading conditions in some 
classes will continue to be challenging. However, we believe  
we have the diversity in our portfolio, the cross-class expertise, 
the discipline and the trading relationships that will enable us to 
continue driving strong returns through shifting market cycles.
Focused growth
As a specialty (re)insurer we look to grow in two principal  
ways. First, in the specialty classes in which Lloyd’ s and the 
London market have a major and or leading presence. Secondly, 
through opportunity-driven geographic growth in specialty 
classes where we have expertise – in both mature and 
emerging markets including the US, China and Latin America.
2014 saw 15.0% growth in our top line GWP at constant  
FX rates. This was driven by our specialty insurance 
business which grew by 22.4%, while we chose to shrink our 
reinsurance portfolio by 8.1% in response to difficult market 
conditions. The growth we achieved in our book was driven 
predominantly by new underwriting initiatives implemented 
in 2013 and 2014, which included the addition of property 
and public entity specialty teams in the US, a casualty and 
property treaty team in Bermuda and a number of specialist 
class teams in London (high value homeowners, aviation, 
political  and credit risks, and fine art and specie). Growth in 
our existing business was limited as we remained disciplined. 
This growth was focused on areas where rates have been most 
resilient and specifically our US property binder business and 
US specialty classes.
Our growth has been described as being ‘opportunistic’ and 
we agree with that view. Our approach is first to consider any 
opportunity within the context of our overall strategy and our 
basic understanding of the product offering to ensure it fits 
with our longer-term plan. We then examine historical results 
very closely and model the business in our own structure. 
This ensures we fully understand the capital implications, 
aggregation and correlation issues and expense impact. We 
only proceed if we fully understand the class and the business 
meets all our criteria – including a very high probability of 
achieving a profitable run rate within its first 12 months. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014     23     
STRATEGIC REPORT
This disciplined approach means we turn away many more 
‘opportunities’ than we actually take on. Matthew provides 
more detail on specific initiatives in the Underwriting Review.
Given our capital structure and highly competitive expense 
model, it is important to remember that we are under no 
pressure to write new or unfamiliar premium (exposure);  
this is particularly important given the current challenging 
market conditions.
Given current market conditions and the effect of rate 
movements, we expect the impact of the various initiatives to 
deliver a low to mid-single digit growth rate for Brit over the 
next few years.
Investment management 
An important part of our strategy is to optimise the risk-
adjusted return on our asset portfolio within the context of the 
responsibilities of a property and casualty insurance business. 
Under John Stratton’s leadership our result in 2014 is a good 
example of the effectiveness of that strategy.
Invested assets under management amounted to £2.6bn at 
the end of 2014 (2013: £2.6bn), with investment return net  
of fees for the year ahead of expectations at 2.9%, or £75.7m 
(2013: 2.1%, or £54.7m).
At 31 December 2014, 88.2% of the Group’s investment 
portfolio was invested in cash and income generating 
assets. Over 70.0% of our invested assets corresponded 
to cash, government bonds and investment grade credit. 
A small proportion (11.8%) of the portfolio is allocated to 
growth assets where investment is targeted at lower volatility 
alternative and equity strategies.
During 2014, the duration and credit risk in the portfolio  
was actively managed through portfolio rebalancing. This, 
together with the ability of our growth strategies to manage 
periods of market volatility enhanced our performance and,  
in particular, risk-adjusted returns over the year. 
While the macro-economic environment remains challenging, 
we believe our investment portfolio is appropriately  
positioned for a persistently slow global recovery and the 
prospect of changing monetary policy in different regions. 
With our established and flexible operating platform we 
remain well placed to actively manage our duration and  
sector profile as the market backdrop develops, accessing 
attractive investments as risk/reward opportunities arise.
Operating platform
A key element in long-term value creation is to position  
the Company with an efficient and scalable operating platform. 
Over the past four years we have developed a model that 
enables us to operate on a very competitive operating 
expense ratio. In 2014 our operating expense ratio was 
stable at 12.0% (2013: 12.0%). We monitor controllable 
expenses closely and work hard to ensure that discretionary 
spending is targeted at improving business performance, 
both for our shareholders and our trading partners.
While we manage expenses carefully, we recognise that 
both people and systems are critical to maintaining a 
competitive advantage for a specialty business. In 2014 we:
• Rolled-out major upgrades to our core underwriting system 
and financial ledger system;
• Significantly enhanced our technical pricing tools and 
made major improvements to our data warehouse and 
management information capabilities;
• Committed substantial resources to enhancing the skills of 
our people. Nearly 300 members of our team participated 
in more than 580 days of educational and training time.  
Our objective is simple: to have the most qualified and 
skilled people working with the best technical tools available.
‘
The product development work by 
the Brit team is tangible evidence of our 
talent, collaboration and intent.
’ 24     Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014
These investments help empower us with a highly flexible 
business model. Operating an expense-efficient, scalable 
platform gives us greater ability to manage effectively 
through the challenges of market cycles.
Capital management 
Our Lloyd’s-focused business allows us to maintain a  
very strong capital position, while still achieving operating 
ratios that enable us to produce sector-leading returns for our 
shareholders. The capital efficiency embedded in the Lloyd’s 
model – and the operating efficiency we achieve there –  
also enhances our flexibility when dealing with competitive 
pricing pressures and the market impact of lower-cost forms  
of capital. 
We seek to hold actual capital in a range of 120% to 140% 
of our capital requirement and believe holding capital at 
this level enhances our ability to manage our approach to 
opportunity-driven growth, take advantage of positive market 
circumstances arising following major industry losses, and 
support our attractive dividend. Notwithstanding the prudent 
holding of that excess capital, we achieved a 20.7% return 
on net tangible assets for our shareholders this year and 
were able to recommend a final dividend of 12.5p per share 
(£50.1m) taking the total ordinary dividend for the year to 
18.75p per share (£75.1m).
As excess capital builds above our expected range we will 
look for ways to deploy it through growth in the business. As 
we committed to at the time of the IPO, if market conditions 
or a lack of good opportunities suggest growth is not right 
for us, we will return that excess (above our prudent range) to 
our shareholders. This was the case in 2014 where our strong 
results have afforded us additional capital headroom and after 
consideration of the potential capital requirements for 2015 
and growth opportunities we have proposed to pay a special 
dividend of a further 12.5p per share (£50.1m). This takes the 
total payout for the full year to £125.2m/31.25p per share or 
90.1% of 2014 earnings. Our capital buffer at the end of 2014, 
adjusted for these recommended dividends, was 36.0% or 
£251.7m above requirements. Having slightly reduced both 
our maximum catastrophe realistic disaster scenario exposure 
and some of our credit exposures on the investment portfolio 
in the second half of 2014, we believe this is a prudent and 
appropriate level of capital buffer for our business to carry.  
I expect to continue this rigorous capital management policy 
in the future. 
Brit has operated its governance and capital resources on a 
‘Solvency II’ standard internal model for some years and we 
therefore believe we are well positioned to comply with full 
requirements when they become effective from 1 January 2016.
Conclusion and outlook
The results we have achieved this year and the strength of our 
business model is a credit to the entire Brit team. Our people 
are our core asset and everything we achieve is through their 
talent, experience, hard work and commitment. At Brit we 
operate a culture of achievement and involvement where 
we encourage our associates to excel in every aspect of our 
business through experience, training, natural talents and 
importantly, collaboration across business activities.
In each of the past two years we have performed engagement 
surveys to help us understand how our team members view 
our Company, the corporate environment and the behaviour 
of management. I am very happy to report extremely high 
participation levels in both of those surveys with 2014 
participation at 89%.
The surveys provide invaluable feedback on what we are 
doing well and where we have room for improvement. 
Management takes that feedback very seriously and takes 
every effort to continuously improve our work environment 
and culture. I am delighted to report this year we scored very 
well in some key measures or statements. For example, 86% 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
‘
Over the past four years we have developed 
a model that enables us to operate on a very 
competitive operating expense ratio. In 2014 
our operating expense ratio was stable at 
12.0% (2013: 12.0%).
’ Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014     25     
STRATEGIC REPORT
of employees would recommend Brit as a great place to work 
and 85% of employees are proud to work here.
We believe having a workforce which is very engaged in 
the future of the business sets our Group on a course for 
continued outperformance for many years ahead.
Trading conditions are certainly not getting any easier with 
a continued flow of capital to our market place, a generally 
softening rate environment, and a continuing low yield 
investment environment. Nonetheless we believe we are 
well positioned to face the challenging days ahead with the 
flexibility we have built into our business model through our 
low cost scalable operating platform, our strong yet efficient 
capital structure, our dynamic approach to asset management 
and our opportunity-driven growth strategy. In addition, and 
very importantly given current market trends, we have over the 
past four years shown clear underwriting discipline; it is that 
which has enabled us to reach this stage and we will continue 
to focus on this fundamental which is so core to our business.
I would like to thank every member of the Brit team for their 
commitment and efforts over the past year and congratulate 
them on a great result. My thanks also go to our trading 
partners, brokers, agents, policyholders and cedants for their 
support and friendship as we have continued to develop the 
Brit story together.
Finally, I would like to extend my appreciation to our Board 
of Directors for their encouragement, advice, direction and 
support through what has been a very exciting and successful 
year for our Group.
Mark Cloutier
24 February 2015
