 18     Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Dr Richard Ward
Chairman
2014 HAS BEEN A SIGNIFICANT YEAR FOR BRIT. 
STRATEGICALLY WE HAVE MADE ENCOURAGING 
PROGRESS IN DELIVERING OUR AMBITION TO BECOME 
THE LEADING GLOBAL SPECIALTY INSURER. FINANCIALLY, 
OUR UNDERWRITING, INVESTMENT AND OPERATIONAL 
PERFORMANCE ALL CONTRIBUTED TO AN EXCELLENT 
RONTA OF 20.7%. MOST IMPORTANTLY, 2014 SAW BRIT’S 
SUCCESSFUL RETURN TO THE MARKET FOLLOWING OUR 
INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (IPO) OF 25% OF THE COMPANY 
IN APRIL. 
Our return to the market was met with significant investor 
interest and I see this as pleasing recognition of the major 
transformation our business has achieved over the past six 
years and the strong track record of professionalism and 
performance that we have built over that time. This is thanks 
to the hard work and dedication of our employees and the 
support and trust of our clients and shareholders. Having been 
CEO of Lloyd’s for eight years, until the end of 2013, I have 
seen from a distance how much commitment this repositioning 
has taken from all areas of the business and my first-hand 
experience over the 12 months since I joined the Board as 
Chairman has further demonstrated what an exceptional job 
the management team has done. I am confident this is the 
best team to lead the business forward for you. 
Offer from Fairfax
On 17 February 2015, we announced an offer for Brit  
from Fairfax. Brit’s Board was pleased to recommend  
this combination with Fairfax, which I believe will greatly  
assist us in delivering our strategy of building the leading  
global speciality (re)insurer. The proposed deal provides an  
exciting opportunity to deliver our growth ambitions. Our  
simple and capital-efficient Lloyd’s focused platform make  
us an attractive partner for Fairfax and our shared values in  
underwriting discipline, speciality lines focus, operational 
rigour and meticulous claims management make this 
transaction a compelling proposition for all stakeholders.  
The offer represents a strong result for all our shareholders  
and produces attractive financial returns following our 
successful IPO in April 2014. 
Performance 
Our key differentiators are our focused Lloyd’s platform, our 
underwriting strategy and our investment strategy. We have 
made good progress against all of our strategic priorities in 
2014 and delivered the targets we set at the time of the IPO. 
In underwriting, we have reported an excellent combined 
ratio of 89.5% underpinned by another year of attractive 
attritional loss ratio performance. We have also developed our 
international capabilities by delivering profitable growth in  
our US platform, which is now reaching significant scale, as 
well as our specialist Bermudian operations. In investments, 
our dynamic and active strategy continues to set us apart 
from our peers, with a decision to focus on income generating 
assets across a broad range of asset classes, generating 
another year of outperformance, with a return of 2.9%, well 
above investment benchmarks.
Capital advantages
The Brit business model remains simple but very effective. 
Our decision to focus our capital solely on the Lloyd’s platform 
creates excellent capital efficiency, and our strict approach to 
cost control allows us to operate a flexible and scalable model  Brit PLC  Annual Report 2014     19     
STRATEGIC REPORT
across the business. This platform has enabled us to deliver 
attractive returns (20.7% in 2014) despite challenging market 
conditions and to maintain a strong balance sheet, pursue 
growth opportunities and to support a consistent dividend 
for shareholders. I am delighted that we have delivered an 
ordinary dividend of 18.75p per share for 2014 and a further 
special dividend of 12.5p, driven by this year’s excellent result 
and our rigorous capital management strategy. 
Brit strategy and outlook
Looking forward, the financial landscape in which the 
insurance industry operates continues to offer material 
challenges. Exceptionally low interest rates, geopolitical 
uncertainty, global growth concerns and market volatility mean 
that the industry continues to face a testing back drop. For 
the insurance industry capital availability is increasing from 
both traditional and non-traditional sources and we expect 
this to create further competition and pressure on pricing and 
conditions in 2015. These new forms of capital, along with 
evolving distribution channels and constant improvements 
in technology continue to challenge industry norms and as 
a Board we will be mindful as to how we can react to this 
landscape quickly and drive the Brit and industry agenda. 
I absolutely believe that we have the right platform and 
business mix to deliver sector-leading returns for shareholders 
in this challenging insurance rate and low yield environment. 
However, to maintain strong profitability, we must focus more 
than ever on our underwriting discipline, risk selection and 
capital management. Integral to this is maintaining good 
relationships with brokers, clients, cover holders and most 
importantly our regulators. 
Brit is in a unique position as the largest Lloyd’s-only insurance 
business and we plan to develop this business by continuing 
to invest in our people, by attracting top talent and by 
supporting the innovation of new products to meet our clients’ 
needs. We also plan to build out our global distribution 
capability selectively, with significant opportunities to grow 
in mature markets such as the US and Bermuda, where we 
have achieved critical mass and expect to capitalise further 
on our investments in 2015. We also see opportunities in key 
growth markets over the longer-term such as building on the 
capability of our Latin America team in Miami and growing our 
presence in China.
We expect 2015 to be another difficult year for the insurance 
industry but we remain committed to delivering our goal of 
mid-teen RoNTA for our shareholders. We have the capital 
strength and exceptional talent within our business to navigate 
these demanding conditions and to continue to innovate and 
take advantage of opportunities for incremental growth as 
and when they arise. I look back at 2014 with immense pride 
at what has been achieved and I look forward with confidence 
and realism that we have the platform and the people to 
deliver strong returns for shareholders.
Finally, I express my sincere appreciation to the Board, the 
executive and all the staff at Brit for their contribution and for 
their ongoing commitment to delivering our strategy and for 
helping the business take another significant step forward to 
becoming the leading global specialty insurer. 
 
Dr Richard Ward 
24 February 2015
‘
I absolutely believe that we have the 
right platform and business mix to deliver 
sector-leading returns for shareholders in 
this challenging insurance rate and low yield 
environment.
’
