 2    Britvic plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Chairman’s
introduction
The UK’ s decision to leave 
the EU and the proposed 
sugar tax on soft drinks 
were momentous external 
events for Britvic in an 
already challenged market 
place with price deflation. 
Despite this Britvic has, 
once again, delivered a 
record pre-exceptional 
EBITA* of £186.1m, up 
8.4%. Profit after tax of 
£114.5m has translated 
into adjusted earnings  
per share* of 49.3p. The 
board is declaring a final 
dividend of 17.5p, bringing 
the full year dividend to 
24.5p, a 6.5% increase 
on 2015. These results 
reflect the resilience of our 
brands and the strength 
of the company. 
Performance review
Simon Litherland has now been Chief 
Executive Officer for three years and in 
that time has overseen the delivery of 
record profits each year. His team have 
continued to make good progress on 
delivering the strategic priorities he set out 
in 2013. Mathew Dunn has now been in 
place as Chief Financial Officer for a year, 
he brings a new energy and has been 
relentless in his pursuit of improving 
performance. 
Trading conditions in our European 
markets have not improved over the last 
12 months with structural challenges in 
the GB market and the consolidation of 
buying groups in France. GB stills 
performance during the year was 
disappointing but was compensated for 
by the performance of our carbonates 
portfolio. In Ireland performance has been 
particularly encouraging with both the 
branded and Counterpoint business 
performing well. The investment in our 
supply chain in GB is now entering its 
second year and tangible progress in 
efficiency and flexibility is being made 
across the network which should provide 
a solid platform for future profitability. 
The announcement of a proposed sugar 
tax in the UK was disappointing. Whilst we 
recognise the need to tackle obesity, given 
the choice that the soft drinks category 
offers compared to other categories, the 
focus is frustrating. No other company has 
done as much work to remove calories 
from its products reducing calories by  
19 billion annually since 2012. We are well 
positioned to respond and are working 
constructively with Government to ensure 
the best outcome for the business.
Outside of Europe our team in the US has 
launched the Fruit Shoot multi-pack, building 
on the success of our single serve business. 
The focus now for the team is to build brand 
awareness and encourage consumers to 
try the brand. The scale of the opportunity 
is huge but we are under no illusions of the 
challenges and levels of investment that we 
face to succeed in this market. In Brazil, we 
are now one year on from our acquisition of 
Ebba, and the early signs are promising. 
João Caetano has joined the PLC Executive 
team we are all impressed by the contribution 
the local management team have made 
over this first year as part of Britvic. 
177534_BRITVIC_TEXT-p001-037.indd   2 13/12/2016   18:57 3 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Chairman’s introduction continued
The board
As announced, Bob Ivell has now stepped 
down from the board. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank him for the significant 
contribution he made over the last 9 years 
as our Senior Independent Director and 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee. 
We wish him well for the future. 
This year we have welcomed two new 
non-executive directors onto the board. 
Firstly , Euan Sutherland, CEO of Supergroup, 
joined us in February. He has over 23 years 
of experience in both retail and FMCG having 
held leadership roles with Kingfisher, B&Q, 
AS Watson and more recently as CEO of 
The Co-operative Group. Sue Clark also 
joined us in February. Sue, until recently, 
was Managing Director of SAB Miller in 
Europe and sat on their executive committee 
until the merger with Anheuser-Busch. 
Both Sue and Euan bring with them 
extensive multinational experience and I 
am delighted to have them on the board. 
The new board has settled in well, the 
results are good and the Company is in 
good shape, notwithstanding the 
challenges we face. I have been Chairman 
now for 11 years and I have indicated to 
the board my intention to step down. 
Chairing Britvic has been a privilege, the 
business has changed significantly and I 
am continually impressed by the quality 
and commitment of all colleagues in the 
business in the many countries in which we 
now operate. The Nomination Committee 
chaired by John Daly , our Senior Independent 
Director will identify my successor. I will 
seek re-election at the AGM in January 
2017 to ensure a smooth handover. 
Capital allocation
The board remains committed to its 
progressive dividend policy with a target of 
paying out 50% of earnings in dividends. 
Since flotation in 2005 the dividend has risen 
from 10p per share to 24.5p this year and 
has returned over £448m to shareholders. 
Our adjusted earnings per share* has 
more than doubled from 18.4p to 49.3p.
A strong balance sheet is a key part of  
any company’s success and the board is 
confident that the structure we have in 
place puts Britvic in a strong position to 
overcome any short term headwinds that 
may prevail and remain agile and flexible to 
take advantage of any opportunities that 
may come our way.
The board continues to be supportive of 
the management team’s ambition to grow 
internationally through selective M&A and 
to invest in the fabric of the business, with 
the three-year supply chain investment 
and the acquisition in Brazil evidence of  
its support.
AGM
The AGM will be held at 11am on 31 January 
at RSA House, Durham House Street, off 
the Strand, London WC2N 6HG and I look 
forward to seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
177534_BRITVIC_TEXT-p001-037.indd   3 13/12/2016   18:57
