 16    Britvic plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
Chief 
Executive  
Officer’s 
review
We remain focused on 
delivering the strategy 
we laid out in May 2013. 
Despite a challenging 
environment in all the 
markets in which 
we operate, we have 
delivered another strong 
set of financial results 
and continue to make 
good progress in 
executing our longer 
term strategic goals.
The breadth of our portfolio, strength 
of our core brands and increasing 
innovation capability means we are 
well placed to adapt and evolve with 
consumer trends and customer needs 
that continue to change, probably 
faster than ever before.
We have returned to like-for-like 
revenue growth and, through our 
transformational business capability 
programme, we continue to build a 
stronger, more efficient business. Our 
pre-exceptional EBITA* increased by 
8.4%, enabling us to declare a 6.5% 
increase in the dividend.
Generate profitable growth  
in our core markets
GB
Our carbonates portfolio, which includes 
both PepsiCo brands and our owned 
brands, enjoyed another successful year. 
Our continued focus on no and low sugar 
resulted in Pepsi Max, 7UP and Tango all 
delivering growth. Whilst the value of the 
cola category declined by 1.4%, Pepsi 
grew its retail market value* by 6.7%, 
adding over £26m of retail value from  
Max, with its new Cherry variant leading 
this growth. 7UP Free outperformed the 
fruit carbonates category with double digit 
retail value* growth, and Tango delivered 
its best performance in over 10 years.
We have been more challenged in stills 
this year although the second half of the 
year reflected encouraging signs of 
improvement. Robinsons declined year  
on year following our decision to remove 
added sugar from the range and due to 
very competitive own label pricing in the 
dilutes category. J
2
O had a weak 
Christmas and our limited-edition flavours 
performed poorly this year. J
2
0 Spritz, a 
lower sugar sparkling variant introduced 
last year is performing well and offers 
good future growth potential. Fruit Shoot 
gained share in a declining category. We 
continue to evolve the brand, reducing 
sweetness and adding vitamins to the 
core brand and Fruit Shoot Hydro, our 
flavoured kids water, is growing strongly.
Over the last three years we have invested 
in our marketing and innovation capability 
and this is now starting to bear fruit. The 
contribution from innovation* continues to 
grow and represented 4% of our 2016 
revenue. Recent successes in GB include 
J
2
0 Spritz and Robinsons Squash’d; we 
are particularly pleased with the early 
performance of the Drench and Purdey’s 
brands which we have improved, 
repositioned and relaunched with new 
variants. Our innovation pipeline is strong; 
2017 will include new adult offerings such 
as the relaunch and extension of R Whites 
lemonade and the introduction of adult 
premium brands, including our ‘zero proof’ 
Thomas and Evans and our premium mixers 
range from the London Essence Company.
177534_BRITVIC_TEXT-p001-037.indd   16 13/12/2016   18:59 17 Britvic plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
We have made good progress broadening 
our channel presence, winning new 
accounts such as Subway and G1, the 
leading hospitality group in Scotland, and 
retaining major contracts such as KFC 
and Fullers. A key element of our revenue 
management strategy has been to grow 
our higher margin immediate refreshment 
portfolio which includes pack sizes such 
as 500/600ml PET and 330ml cans. As  
a result we have taken share and grown 
more retail market value in this category 
than any other manufacturer, with Pepsi 
Max, Drench and Ballygowan leading this 
success. Further opportunity in this 
segment remains as we still under-index 
versus our overall market share. 
France
The tragic terrorist events of the last year, 
combined with social and economic 
pressures, have had an impact on 
consumer confidence and behaviour  
in France. In addition, syrup sales are 
particularly weather sensitive and the 
weather this summer did not match the 
previous year affecting sales. In contrast 
Fruit Shoot performed well, aided by the 
introduction of a 1.5 litre sharing pack. 
Our juice brand Pressade also continued 
to grow strongly, with its focus on organic 
and locally sourced fruit proving popular 
with consumers. Next year we are 
introducing a high juice version of Fruit 
Shoot and a new range of premium 
syrups under the Moulin de Valdonne 
brand, addressing the consumer demands 
for naturalness and a premium treat.
Ireland 
2016 has been a successful year for our 
Irish business unit. We leveraged our 
number one position in “no added sugar”, 
in which we enjoy over 30% share, to 
outperform the market. Ballygowan water 
contributed more growth to the Irish soft 
drinks market than any other brand. We 
successfully extended the brand through 
the launch of Sparklingly Fruity. 
MiWadi led the squash category back into 
growth and this year MiWadi 0% sugar 
became the first soft drink brand to receive 
approval from Diabetes Ireland. It was a 
successful year for our business out of 
home as we used the breadth of our 
portfolio to successfully take share in both 
convenience and through our licensed 
wholesaling arm, Counterpoint. 
To further increase our reach into the 
Licensed channel, we are today announcing 
the acquisition, subject to competition 
approval, of East Coast Suppliers Ltd, a 
licensed wholesaler with a strong presence 
in Dublin. Through this acquisition, our 
business will become the number two 
wholesaler, providing a direct route to 
market for our growing adult premium soft 
drinks portfolio.
Realise global opportunities 
in kids, family and adult 
categories
We have had an excellent first year in Brazil. 
Despite the current tough economic 
conditions, we have grown volume and 
revenue and our brands Maguary and 
Dafruta have gained market share. Multiple 
price increases were successfully executed 
to maintain margins in the face of double 
digit raw material inflation. More recently we 
have launched Maguary Fruit Shoot, a 
fantastic achievement for the combined 
Ebba and Britvic team in such a short 
period of time. Initially we are focusing our 
efforts on Sao Paulo city before we 
undertake a broader roll out across Brazil. 
The local senior management team have all 
been retained and have proved a great 
addition to Britvic.
We continue to invest behind our 
international division in the USA. Fruit Shoot 
singles, distributed by our partner Pepsi in 
the convenience and leisure channels, have 
continued to perform well and we have 
maintained our market share. Fruit Shoot is 
now listed in Pizza Hut nationally and is 
performing well. 
This year we have also launched multi-pack 
into the grocery channel with our partner 
Advantage Sales and Marketing, who are a 
well-established operator in grocery. The 
scale of the opportunity is large but the USA 
grocery market is complex, diverse and 
highly competitive. We are pleased with the 
listings we have gained with major retailers 
such as Walmart, Kroger and HEB but 
recognise that we have further work to do 
to properly establish the brand in this 
channel in the year ahead.
Finally, we took the difficult decision to 
withdraw from India this summer. Whilst the 
brand was growing its distribution, the path 
to sustainable profitability was proving to be 
a long one and we have decided to focus 
our efforts and investment elsewhere.
Continue to step-change our 
business capability
Last year we announced a 
transformational three-year investment 
programme to deliver increased supply 
chain flexibility and efficiency with a 
minimum 15% EBITDA* return. We 
continue to see a significant opportunity 
for our business to improve its capability 
and our current expectation is that the net 
capital investment in the programme will 
be around £240m. The first year of our 
investment into the supply chain in GB is on 
track and we have identified opportunities 
in Ireland and France. In 2016 we 
commissioned our first new large PET line 
and on site warehousing in Leeds. We also 
made significant progress on the installation 
of three new can lines in Rugby. These will 
be fully operational in spring 2017 and will 
start to deliver significant cost and 
commercial benefits as we head into 2018. 
In 2017 we will commence the next phase 
of our investment programme, with a new 
PET line in London, as well as new aseptic 
lines in Rugby and in France. In Ireland, 
we announced changes to our distribution 
model, outsourcing all warehousing and 
distribution to increase capacity and 
reduce cost. 
As we have looked to extend our business 
capability agenda beyond supply chain, 
we have taken the opportunity to flatten 
our team structures and create more 
synergy between our business units, which 
will improve the speed and effectiveness 
of decision making as well as drive out 
cost. We anticipate that these initiatives 
will deliver incremental annual cost 
savings from 2017 of £5m.
“ 
BRITVIC HAS DELIVERED ANOTHER STRONG  
SET OF RESULTS IN CHALLENGING MARKET 
CONDITIONS. 
”
177534_BRITVIC_TEXT-p001-037.indd   17 13/12/2016   18:59 Build trust and respect in our 
communities
Public health has continued to be a key 
issue in 2016, with soft drinks levies 
proposed to be introduced in 2018 in the 
UK and Ireland. Britvic believes in offering 
choice, whilst making it easier for 
consumers to reduce their calorific intake 
without compromising taste or quality.  
We are disappointed at the introduction  
of category-specific taxes, since we 
believe a holistic approach is necessary  
to tackle this complex issue. 
Playing a proactive role in helping to 
address obesity has long been an integral 
part of our sustainable business plan. We 
have led the industry in our approach to 
health: reformulating brands such as J20 
and Drench; introducing new product 
innovations such as MiWadi Zero and 
MiWadi Mini; and removing added sugar 
Fruit Shoot and Robinsons. Our actions 
since 2012 have led to an annualised 
19bn calorie reduction and our portfolio is 
now strongly weighted towards low and 
no sugar in GB and Ireland.
Our brands have also continued to help 
families get active, promoting sport through 
high level sponsorships including Robinsons’ 
enduring association with the Wimbledon 
Lawn Tennis Championships and 
Teisseire’s sponsorship of the Tour de 
France. This year Fruit Shoot partnered 
with Tough Mudder to enable children 
across the UK, France, Ireland and the 
USA to participate in a Mini Mudder 
obstacle course. 
Fruit Shoot also partnered with Right to 
Play – a global organisation that uses the 
transformative power of play to educate 
and empower children facing adversity.
We have made good progress on reducing 
our environmental impact, with the 
investment in our manufacturing plants 
leading to a 1.5% reduction in water 
usage per litre of soft drink produced. At 
our Leeds factory, water consumption is 
down 22% and energy use reduced 45% 
relative to production, compared to FY15. 
We are confident our London and Rugby 
sites should see a similar efficiency saving 
once the supply chain investments 
become fully operational by 2020. 
This year our charitable contributions have 
been valued at nearly £900,000 and our 
employees have continued to live our 
values, going the extra mile to support 
great causes and build an inspiring place 
to be. In GB, our employees have been 
supporting our two new charity partners, 
Sported and the Wildlife Trust. In Ireland, 
we launched our employee volunteering 
policy, enabling employees to take 2 days 
paid leave to volunteer. In France we have 
been supporting young people entering 
the labour market through workshops, 
open days and partnering employee 
volunteers with young people on job 
discovery exercises.
Outlook
2017 will be another challenging year, with 
difficult trading conditions and input cost 
inflation for the first time in several years. 
The UK’s vote to leave the EU and the 
proposed soft drinks levies in GB and 
Ireland from April 2018 have created 
additional uncertainty.
However, we are well positioned to deal 
with these challenges. We have a clear 
strategy that is working, hugely talented and 
committed people, and a robust balance 
sheet that provides a strong platform from 
which we will continue to deliver our strategic 
goals. The breadth of our portfolio, strength 
of our brands and innovation capability 
leaves us well placed to continue to grow. 
Through our transformational business 
capability programme we are creating a 
stronger, more efficient business, with a 
lower cost base. I am confident that we 
will deliver 2017 results in line with market 
expectations whilst continuing to progress 
our strategic priorities.
Simon Litherland 
Chief Executive Officer
Strategic report Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
18    
177534_BRITVIC_TEXT-p001-037.indd   18 13/12/2016   18:59
