 Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
I would like to start this review by thanking 
all members of staff, our strategic partners 
and professional introducers for all their 
hard work and support over the last 
ﬁnancial year. Against a very tough 
economic background, the group has 
continued to grow successfully. None of this 
would have been possible without the 
commitment, professionalism and diligence 
of our colleagues.
Funds under management 
Our discretionary funds under management 
rose 19% to £3.52 billion during the 
ﬁnancial year against declining investment 
markets. This growth reﬂects a combination 
of continued support from the professional 
intermediary market, the launch of our 
Funds business, an acquisition and solid 
investment performance. 
Our new business is largely introduced from 
our 11 strategic alliances and from over 420 
professional intermediary ﬁrms based 
throughout the UK. Whilst investment 
conditions remain volatile, the need for 
professional bespoke investment management 
for high net worth individuals remains high. 
This is supported by the continued growth of 
the Self Invested Personal Pension (‘SIPP’) 
market place and the rising demand for our 
Managed Portfolio Service (to cater for clients 
with smaller investment portfolios not 
requiring a bespoke service).
Our Funds business has continued to gain 
traction over the year and since the year end. 
We have seven funds; four niche funds and 
three generalist risk based fund of funds. As 
well as having good performance records, 
our niche funds are attracting interest in part 
due to challenging market conditions. This 
was highlighted by Braemar being appointed 
as property manager of the Ground Rents 
Income Fund plc and rising interest in our 
recently launched UK Farming fund. 
Strategies for growth 
Our growth plans revolve around organic 
growth, investment and service 
development. In all three areas we have 
seen continued progress over the ﬁnancial 
year. Our organic growth has been focused 
on the recruitment of high quality staff, 
growth of Braemar Estates and Financial 
Consulting and a sharp increase in the 
number of Strategic Partners and 
introducing Professional Intermediaries. 
The investments we have made, Brooks 
Macdonald Funds apart, have been via the 
acquisition of the Investment Management 
team of Clarke Willmott LLP, the 
establishment of our Taunton ofﬁce in 
November and the establishment of our 
York ofﬁce in April. This has continued, post 
the year end, with the acquisition of Park 
Street London Limited. We will continue to 
assess appropriate acquisition opportunities 
as they arise and will maintain our rigorous 
search for quality with regards to any 
investment opportunity.
Our move to becoming an Application 
Service Provider has also involved a 
considerable investment as well as signiﬁcant 
internal resource. This is both an investment 
and a considerable service development. In 
Easter this year the project completed; it will 
allow signiﬁcant ‘back ofﬁce’ scale as well as 
giving us the capacity to take on third party 
administration. Whilst the latter is still in very 
early development, I am pleased that third 
party assets under administration are already 
in excess of £50m.
“Against a very tough 
economic background,  
the group has continued  
to grow successfully”
“Our growth plans revolve 
around organic growth, 
investment and service 
development. In all 
three areas we have seen 
continued progress over  
the ﬁnancial year”
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2012
5
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s review
We continue to invest in our people and 
promotion of our strong culture. Total staff 
numbers grew from 248 to 282 in the year, 
including an increase in investment managers 
from 43 to 55 as well as the recruitment of 
additional trainees. Such additional capacity is 
vital to provide the headroom for further 
growth in funds under management. 
Regional presence
Whilst London remains our largest ofﬁce, we 
now have seven regional ofﬁces. Our ﬁrst 
ofﬁce outside London was Hampshire 
followed by Manchester, Tunbridge Wells, 
Edinburgh and then an ofﬁce in Hale 
following the acquisition of Braemar plc in 
2010. We have enjoyed considerable success 
in all our ofﬁces, and the opening of ofﬁces 
in Taunton and shortly afterwards in York in 
the ﬁnancial year under review not only gives 
us further regional growth opportunities but 
also increases our coverage for both clients 
and professional intermediaries alike. In both 
cases the new ofﬁces have started well.
We continue to consider opportunities to 
open new ofﬁces whether by acquisition of 
businesses or teams, such as in Taunton, or 
by organic investment, such as in York. 
Regulation
In January 2013 the Retail Distribution 
Review (‘RDR’) comes into force. This is a 
complex piece of regulation with the 
desired outcomes of greater consumer 
clarity, transparency of charges, greater 
professional standards and a more robust 
ﬁnancial regulatory regime. We are public in 
our support of these outcomes and whilst 
there has been a signiﬁcant amount of work 
done to date, and more necessary ahead of 
RDR, we remain excited about the 
opportunities that it will bring.
Our Asset Management business will, under 
RDR, be Restricted, advising only on Investment 
Management, whereas our Consulting business 
will be Independent, advising where 
appropriate on all aspects of ﬁnancial planning.
Brand 
As a business we have a strong culture based 
around high standards, a team orientated 
approach and a passion for delivering service 
and performance to our clients. Over the last 
year we have increased our focus on this and 
I was delighted when we were included in 
the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to 
work for and were the highest placed 
company in the ﬁnancial services industry. 
In terms of performance and service 
awards, Brooks Macdonald Financial 
Consulting was named in the Private Client 
Practitioner Top 25 IFA Companies 2012 
list. Brooks Macdonald Asset Management 
(“BMAM”) was named as the winner of the 
Incisive Media Gold Standard Award for 
Portfolio Management and Best 
Discretionary Adviser at this year’s 
Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year 
Awards. BMAM also achieved a Defaqto 5 
Star Rating for its Bespoke Portfolio Service 
and Managed Portfolio Service – one of 
only ﬁve companies to have achieved 5 
Star Ratings in both of the discretionary 
management categories.
A highlight of the year has been our three 
year sponsorship of Middlesex County 
Cricket Club. This has already raised our 
proﬁle and has beneﬁted our marketing 
activity and increased our web-site trafﬁc.  
We have also continued to support schools 
and sports clubs via sponsorship and this 
now exceeds 50 teams. The Brooks 
Macdonald Foundation has supported  
over 25 charities in the last year. Increasing 
our proﬁle and being supportive to 
communities is very much a journey but we 
have made signiﬁcant progress over the year.
Summary and Outlook 
Last year was tough. We believe that market 
conditions will remain volatile and, given the 
onset of RDR, we are entering a period of 
signiﬁcant change in the distribution landscape 
for ﬁnancial services. We are fortunate that the 
group is well positioned, ﬁnancially stable and 
with a large number of exciting opportunities. 
It is this together with the quality and 
commitment of our staff that allows us to look 
forward with continued conﬁdence.
We have had an encouraging start to the new 
ﬁnancial year with funds under management 
continuing to grow, enhanced by Braemar’s 
appointment as property manager of Ground 
Rents Income Fund plc. We are conﬁdent of 
maintaining our track record of growth. 
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
12 September 2012 
