   Brooks Macdonald Group plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2016  |  03
Chief Executive’s review
  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Chris Macdonald Chief Executive
Introduction
This has been a good year for the 
business in spite of some signifi cant 
headwinds . This would not have been 
possible without the hard work and 
dedication of all our staff  throughout 
our twelve offi  ces and I would like to 
thank them for making these results 
possible .
In the fi rst six months of the year, we 
continued to grow discretionary funds 
under management and our planned 
move away from advisory work in our 
International business . In the second 
half, investment markets remained 
challenging but organic growth of 
discretionary funds remained robust 
and we have made substantive 
progress in our distribution model .
We have continued with our IT system 
development, working with three 
external providers . This is always 
complex and the time scale for 
completion has now moved to mid 
2017 , but I am pleased to report that 
this still remains on budget . In 
addition, we have completed our 
‘brand refresh’ . As well as modernising 
the look and feel of our marketing 
collateral, this has fi rmly positioned 
the business as an Investment 
Management business, as this remains 
the key driver of our growth . In line 
with this strategy, we will be moving 
our funds and UK asset management 
business into one brand, Investment 
Management, in early 2017 (subject to 
regulatory approvals) . 
Business review
Our discretionary funds under 
management rose to over £8 .3bn, an 
increase of over £880m over the 
fi nancial year . This represents an 
increase of 12 .0%, of which 11 .7% was 
new business (£863m) and 0 .3% 
(£25m) investment growth . We 
concluded no acquisitions in the year 
and this growth was largely generated 
internally, predominantly via our 
work with professional introducers . 
We continue to work with an 
increasing number (now over 960) of 
high-quality professional 
intermediaries throughout the UK and 
overseas . Pleasingly, our work with 
this sector shone through in the 
Citywire Regional Stars awards, where 
professional advisers voted Brooks 
Macdonald their preferred 
discretionary fund manager in 5 of 6 
regions of the UK . We remain highly 
focussed on providing a high-quality 
service to this sector and thank them 
for their continued support . 
Our bespoke discretionary portfolio 
service (‘BPS’) remains the premium 
off ering for high-net-worth clients . 
This continues to gain traction with 
private clients, pension and trust 
funds . Pension funds (principally Self 
Invested Personal Pensions - ‘SIPPs’) 
and increasingly ISA portfolios remain 
a substantial opportunity . We remain 
confi dent that the need for an 
incentive to save remains and that 
tax-effi  cient wrappers will form a key 
component of any strategy in this 
We are well positioned strategically, have a strong 
balance sheet, are growing our brand, have high-quality 
staff  across the group, are working with an increasing 
number of professional intermediaries and are 
constantly developing our investment off ering.  04  |  Brooks Macdonald Group plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s review
 continued
Business review continued
space . On and offshore we now 
manage over £6 . 4bn via our BPS 
service .
Our managed portfolio service (‘MPS’) 
is for smaller clients and can be 
accessed as a portfolio or via a unit 
managed around a series of risk based 
mandates . Our portfolio assets now 
exceed £617m and units £241m . We 
remain of the view that this will be a 
strong area of growth in the short, 
medium and long term .
In addition to risk-rated funds, we 
manage specialist funds which will 
also move under our new single brand 
later in the new financial year . Over the 
last year and into this financial year, we 
have streamlined our offering to 
ensure that we have funds that are of 
scale . Subject to market conditions, we 
will also look to launch further new 
products into the market place .
The full integration of our 
international business into the group 
continued . The teams based in the 
Channel Islands have worked hard to 
move the business from a blend of 
advisory and discretionary business 
towards acting fully as a discretionary 
manager . This process continues and 
while the financial results are 
disappointing, I am pleased with the 
progress made in expanding our 
distribution network outside the UK .
We have made a number of 
management changes in Braemar 
Estates, our specialist property 
manager . These started to contribute 
to growth in the second half . Assets 
under administration declined 
marginally over the year (-3 . 1%) .
Our financial planning business 
continued the trend of the prior year . 
Consulting work rose while employee 
benefits had a difficult year . Work 
generated into our Investment 
Management business remains robust 
and we will be looking to launch a 
pension default fund for our 
employee-benefit clients early this 
financial year .
Industry background
Regulatory changes continue apace, 
with a major focus on MiFID II . This 
has been postponed until January 
2018, but we are ensuring the 
business is well prepared for the 
substantial changes around 
transaction and client reporting . 
During the financial year, we have 
seen further consolidation in our 
sector . I believe that with the 
increasingly high costs of providing a 
quality investment service, back office 
administration and a robust 
governance structure, consolidation 
will continue . We remain firmly 
committed to remaining independent 
and will certainly look at acquisition 
opportunities when they arise .
Strategies for growth 
We continue to focus on our core 
strategies for growth: organic, service 
and performance development, as 
well as ongoing investment in the 
business, in particular on improving 
our technological delivery . This 
remains a constant .
Our main strategic focus remains 
working with quality professional 
advisers . There were 14,491 Adviser 
firms in the UK at the end of 2015 
(source: APFA) of whom around 2,500 
fall into our immediate target market . 
Currently we work with around 
one-third of this universe and are 
excited at the prospect of making 
further progress here .
Strategic Alliances form a major part 
of our strategy and I am pleased that 
the number of firms we have these 
relationships with has increased to 19 . 
As well as working with over 960 firms 
in the UK and overseas, we are looking 
to deepen our relationships with them 
and have launched a telephone 
support team to expand our offering 
to the wider community .
Our regional offices have been a major 
success for the business since our first 
office opened outside London in 2005 . 
This has allowed us to service clients 
and professional advisers from a 
regional office as well recruiting 
high-quality staff throughout the UK 
and Channel Islands . 
In addition to recruitment, we are 
always looking to enhance and 
expand our range of services . In this 
financial year, we will look to expand 
our charity proposition, a Tier 1 
service for overseas investors and 
launch a default fund as above .
With our recent brand refresh, we will 
also look to continue the development 
of our brand further . We are 
developing an exciting social media 
presence, have just renewed our 
sponsorship of Middlesex County 
Cricket Club and have won a number 
of investment and property awards 
over the last year . We also remain one 
of the very few firms with 5-star 
ratings from Defaqto for 2016 .
Summary and outlook
While it has been a challenging year, it 
has been highly productive . We are 
well positioned strategically, have a 
strong balance sheet, are growing our 
brand, have high-quality staff across 
the group, are working with an 
increasing number of professional 
intermediaries and are constantly 
developing our investment offering . 
We have made a good start to the new 
financial year and can look forward 
with confidence .
 
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
20 September 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
C O NT I N U E D
