 Brooks Macdonald Group plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  |  03
Chief Executive’s review
Chris Macdonald Chief Executive
Introduction
I would like to start by thanking all our 
staff for their hard work for the Group 
over the last 12 months . In an industry  
that is highly dynamic, from a regulatory, 
distribution and market perspective, the 
Group has made significant progress and 
this is only possible with their commitment .
Over the year we achieved double digit 
growth in underlying pre-tax profits, 
continued to increase our discretionary 
funds under management, improved our 
distribution both on and offshore and 
continued to invest in infrastructure, 
governance and IT, as well as remaining 
one of the Sunday Times Best 100 
companies to work for . 
We also successfully moved our London 
head office in May to new West End 
premises; this will facilitate further 
expansion and underlines our growth 
ambitions for the future . We have also 
broadened the senior management  
team and, coupled with our continued 
investment programme, these developments 
have the objective of ensuring we continue 
to grow in a highly disciplined manner .
Funds under management
Our discretionary funds under management 
rose to over £7 . 4bn, an increase of over 
£860m over the year . This represents an 
increase of 13 . 1% supported by investment 
markets; investment performance across 
the Group accounted for £218m and net 
new business for £645m . Across the 
business we have three avenues for growth 
in our discretionary funds; our Bespoke 
Portfolio Service (‘BPS’), Managed Portfolio 
Services (‘MPS’) and Funds . In all cases  
we work closely with institutions and 
professional intermediaries to introduce 
business and I am delighted that we now 
work with over 770 firms both in the  
UK and offshore . We remain firmly 
committed to working closely with  
these firms and are grateful for their 
ongoing and growing support .
Our core offering, BPS, which targets 
individuals with £200,000 or more to 
invest, continues to attract funds and our 
service is split between the management  
of pension funds (largely Self Invested 
Personal Pensions –‘SIPPs’) private  
portfolios and charities and trusts . The 
dynamics behind all three areas constantly 
evolve . Pension legislation changes continue 
to make SIPPs more attractive but at the 
same time ‘lifetime caps’ now restrict the 
size of individual pension funds . Private 
portfolios remain a significant area of 
growth, which is supported by the backdrop 
of a low interest rate environment, and we 
are also seeing growth in our trust remits, 
most notably offshore .
MPS, which is a discretionary service 
targeted at those with £20,000 or more  
to invest, has three areas of growth .  
The first two relate to smaller investment 
clients, firstly those portfolios that we 
administer and secondly, portfolios  
that are held on external administrative 
platforms . In both cases there have been 
pricing pressures over the last few years 
that have now plateaued .
This has been a year of substantive progress for the group. 
We have continued to grow funds under management and 
increase profits whilst making considerable progress on our 
IT development, our distribution, improving our governance, 
completing two strategic alliances, broadening the senior 
management team and moving our head office. 04  |  Brooks Macdonald Group  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s review 
continued
Funds under management 
continued
The third area of growth for MPS is the 
multi-asset funds which sit within our 
Funds business . The growth of our Funds 
business, which now has £663m under 
management (2014: £518m), stems  
from our specialist funds as well as  
the multi-asset funds within MPS . 
In our Channel Islands business there  
have been some management changes  
as well as increased collaboration with 
professional intermediaries overseas . The 
business is now more integrated into the 
Group . Funds under management have 
now grown to £1 . 16bn .
In all cases we manage money on a team 
and risk based approach, working off  
a centralised investment process . This 
continues to deliver strong risk adjusted 
returns for our clients and allows the 
business to publish its performance data, 
ensuring a robust and scalable investment 
management proposition .
Braemar Estates, our specialist property 
manager, had a tough year . Whilst  
assets under administration are broadly 
unchanged, new business in the first half 
was slower than we had hoped for . This 
has been addressed in the second half 
with mandate wins that will benefit the 
second half of the new financial year .
Financial planning has had a mixed year; 
our consulting business was ahead of 
expectations but employee benefits proved 
more challenging than we had hoped,  
not assisted by the substantive changes 
required to deliver an auto enrol solution 
to businesses in a profitable manner . This 
is an area where we are looking to dovetail 
more work with our Asset Management 
business and I expect progress here over 
the next six months and beyond .
Industry background
The amount of change in the sector and 
industry does not slow down . In the sector 
we continue to see consolidation and  
I believe this trend will continue largely  
due to the growth of wealth management 
as an industry and the high cost base 
required to be able to manage and 
administer client assets .
Regulatory costs have been high over  
the past two years with the required 
repapering of all clients, the Retail 
Distribution Review (‘RDR’), FATCA and 
the like, but we believe these have now 
stabilised . However, MiFID II, which will 
impact in January 2017 will bring further 
business requirements and additional 
costs . We are sheltered to some degree  
as we are undertaking a full IT system 
upgrade, which is due to be completed  
in the final calendar quarter of 2016 .  
We have built in as many of the known 
requirements of MiFID II as possible into 
the system specifications to enable us to 
comply with this new European legislation .
Strategies for growth
We continue to focus on our core 
strategies for growth: organic, service  
and performance development and 
on-going investment in the business .
Our main strategic focus remains working 
with quality professional advisers . We have 
seen this sector grow in the UK over the 
last 12 months and the opportunities to 
work with more firms across all of our 
regional offices is greater today than 
before the implementation of RDR in  
2012 . Offshore, we are focussing on  
three principal areas: South Africa, where 
we have recently obtained regulatory 
permissions to market our services to 
intermediaries and clients alike; the Far 
East (mainly MPS funds); and the Middle 
East working with intermediaries .
We continue to grow the number of firms 
where we have strategic relationships  
and I am pleased that this has grown  
to 17 during the past financial year .
In addition to organic opportunities we 
always look to recruit quality experienced 
staff across the Group and we will continue 
with our successful trainee programme .
Summary and outlook
This has been a year of substantive progress 
for the business . We have continued to 
grow funds under management and 
increase profits whilst making considerable 
progress on our IT development, our 
distribution, improving our governance, 
completing two strategic alliances, 
broadening the senior management  
team and moving our head office . 
Over the coming year we will look to 
continue with the progress made and  
look to drive performance, service and  
new business . Investment markets remain 
volatile and this is clearly a headwind for 
the industry as a whole, but encouragingly 
our new business has been strong for the 
first quarter of the new financial year .
 
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
16 September 2015
