 Annual Report & Accounts 2014
3
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
After the considerable changes within the 
industry in recent years, this has been a year 
where the business has continued to evolve, 
we have invested in the future and grown 
funds under management and 
administration. We have maintained profits 
and positioned the Group for a return to 
profit growth despite increased costs. The 
growth in funds and changes have only 
been possible with the hard work and 
dedication of all our staff. In addition we 
continue to receive considerable support 
from professional intermediaries both in and 
outside the UK and I would like to thank 
them for the confidence they have shown in 
the Group.
Funds under management
Our discretionary funds under management 
rose to over £6.5bn, a rise of over £1.4bn 
over the year. This represents an increase of 
28.2% supported by the DPZ acquisition and 
investment markets. Investment performance 
across the Group accounted for 6.5% over 
the year (£330m), DPZ 7.0% (£360m) and 
net new business 14.7% (£750m).
We have seen growth in each of our 
investment services. Our Bespoke Portfolio 
Service (‘BPS’) is our core private client 
offering and is offered on and offshore with 
the principal source of business being 
referrals from professional advisers. Our 
Managed Portfolio Service (‘MPS’) is 
available either as a portfolio or as a unit 
and after a period of margin pressure I am 
pleased to report that pricing appears to 
have stabilised. This service has principally 
been marketed onshore but we will, post 
the DPZ acquisition, be marketing this to 
professional intermediaries offshore. Clients 
include private individuals, trusts and 
charities and both our MPS and BPS 
offerings are benefiting from the increasing 
popularity of Self-invested Personal  
Pensions (SIPPs) and other money purchase 
pension arrangements.
Our Funds business has grown to £518m in 
funds under management (2013: £390m) 
and continues to gain momentum. 
We are now also managing over £1.1bn of 
discretionary assets offshore including the 
recently acquired DPZ funds. This has 
grown net of the acquisition by over £180m 
over the last financial year. In addition we 
have over £450m of advisory assets, all of 
which are based offshore.
Braemar Estates, our specialist property 
manager, continues to grow and now has 
property assets under management of 
£1.13bn (2013: £1.04bn).
Our UK Financial Planning income grew by 
65% to £3.8m (2013: £2.3m).
Industry background
Eighteen months after the introduction of 
the Retail Distribution Review (‘RDR’) in the 
UK, it is worth commenting on the changes 
that the wealth management industry has 
undergone. The legislation was introduced, 
amongst other things, to improve 
transparency, the stability of financial 
institutions and competition for clients. We 
were and remain supportive of these 
objectives but RDR has led to significant 
industry changes. We have had to invest 
heavily in systems, reissue application forms 
to all our clients and change the pricing of 
our MPS proposition. The costs of regulation 
have risen very significantly but we have 
embraced these changes and are now 
positioned to continue to grow the business 
in the new regulatory environment. 
“In a year of continued 
change the Group has  
made good progress 
particularly in the growth 
of our discretionary funds 
under management”
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s review
Strategies for growth
We continue to focus on our core strategies 
for growth: organic, service and 
performance development and on-going 
investment in the business.
Our organic growth revolves around 
working with professional intermediaries, 
principally financial advisers, trust 
companies, and private client legal and 
accountancy practices. This remains a 
critical area for growth for the business and I 
am pleased to report that we now work 
with more than 670 professional 
intermediary firms covering Asset 
Management on and offshore, Funds and 
Financial Consulting. Over the last year we 
have also expanded our reach with 
professional intermediaries offshore and this 
will remain an area of focus during 2014 
and beyond.
In addition we continue to grow our brand, 
recruit high quality staff and invest in our 
trainee programme. We have in the last year 
made several senior appointments including 
our Head of Investment Services (David 
Lewis-Irlam) and Head of Group Governance 
(Simon Broomfield) and seven new trainee 
appointments as well as six trainees 
qualifying. We now have over 80 investment 
managers, 30 consultants and 17 trainees. 
Organic growth has been geographically well 
spread. With the opening of our office in 
Leamington Spa last year (and openings in 
York and Taunton in recent years) we now 
have a much stronger regional footprint 
across the UK. This allows us to provide a 
strong local service as well as providing a 
nationwide service where needed by larger 
firms of professional intermediaries. Linked to 
this is where we work closely with a number 
of strategic partners and I am pleased that 
we now have 15 (2013: 12) Strategic 
Alliances (which refer significant amounts of 
business into our discretionary offering).
We continually look to improve our service 
offering and performance development. 
Over the last year we have entered into a 
new partnership (North Row Capital LLP) 
and as result launched the IFSL North Row 
Liquid Property Fund; we have enabled our 
AIM investment service to be distributed via 
professional intermediaries; we are 
launching our offshore MPS proposition; we 
continue to invest in risk monitoring tools 
for investment portfolios and to expand our 
research capabilities. Investment 
performance for our clients remains strong, 
particularly for low, low-to-medium and 
medium risk client mandates, in which the 
vast majority of our clients sit. We also 
believe the opportunity for SIPPs and the 
management of pension funds to be 
another opportunity for the Group and this 
remains an area of focus onshore.
We made two acquisitions during the year. 
We completed the acquisition of DPZ in 
April and its integration into Brooks 
Macdonald International (‘BMI’) continues 
apace. As well as adding scale to our 
international presence DPZ bring specific 
MPS and fixed interest skill sets. I would like 
to take this opportunity to thank the teams 
in BMI and DPZ for all their hard work in 
making this happen. 
At the end of July (post the year end) we 
completed the acquisition of Levitas 
pursuant to the purchase of the option in 
December 2013. Levitas has two risk-rated 
funds specifically designed for the employee 
benefits market. At the time of completion 
Levitas funds totalled £89.4m and this 
dovetails with our belief in the significant 
opportunity around auto enrolment and the 
growth of personal pension provision.
We have continued to be recognised 
externally with a series of awards over the 
last year and as a people business I was 
delighted that we were again recognised as 
being in the Sunday Times Top 100 Medium 
Sized Companies to Work For. I am pleased 
to report that the Group has been identified 
as the only discretionary fund manager to 
achieve the highest level of Defaqto (an 
independent, financial research company in 
the UK) Star and Diamond Rating in all four 
categories of discretionary management 
(MPS, Bespoke, Funds and Platforms).
Summary and outlook
The amount of change in the financial 
services industry has not slowed down and 
we have been quick to adapt where 
necessary. This has required investment of 
both capital and a huge amount of hard 
work for all members of staff. In a year of 
continued change the Group has made 
good progress particularly in the growth of 
our discretionary funds under management.
Markets have been supportive, particularly 
in the first half of the calendar year and our 
outlook for investment returns remains 
cautiously optimistic, balancing economic 
recovery and the end of quantitative easing 
against the potential rise in UK interest rates. 
We will continue to invest in systems 
development and remain optimistic for new 
business flows. After a year of flat profits we 
expect to return to profit growth. New 
business has started the year well and the 
Board remains confident for the future of 
the Group. 
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
16 September 2014
