 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s Review
The group continues to have a 
number of growth strategies and I 
am pleased to report that these 
have enabled us to continue to 
grow the business at a very 
successful rate over the last year. 
Organic growth has been the 
major driving force, but has been 
combined with new office 
openings, strategic alliances and 
the acquisition of Lawrence House.
Funds under management rose from 
£1.386bn to £2.186bn over the period 
representing an increase of 57%. Whilst 
markets remained volatile they were 
supportive, with the APCIMS Balanced index 
rising 12.66% and the less relevant FTSE100 
rising 6.7% over the same period.
We continue to work closely with high 
quality IFAs and professional introducers 
alike. This continues to account for a major 
part of the group’s growth and in the period 
under review over 80% of our new business 
came from these sources. I would like to take 
this opportunity to thank all our professional 
connections for their continued support.
Our principal offering to clients is based 
around providing high quality fee based 
private client discretionary fund 
management. This service is divided into the 
management of Private Portfolios, Self 
Invested Personal Pensions (‘SIPP’), Charities 
and Trusts, and our Managed Portfolio 
Service (‘MPS’). In addition we have a 
bespoke financial consulting practice. I am 
pleased to report that in all areas we have 
seen growth.
The group has continued to make significant 
strides in the SIPP market, which now 
accounts for 42% of funds under 
management. Our MPS service, aimed at 
clients with portfolios of between £20,000 
and £150,000, has seen considerable growth 
in the number of SIPP accounts but also 
noticeably from ISA amalgamations. This 
represents around 7% of FUM and continues 
to be a driver of profit and turnover growth. 
Our pipeline for new business remains robust 
for all our discretionary investment 
management services.
In London we have seen continued growth 
in the fund management teams, our 
operations department, central functions 
and financial consulting. This remains our 
largest office and further space has been 
secured to allow continued growth. Outside 
of London, we have relocated our Hampshire 
office to larger premises reflecting its 
considerable success, and Manchester, 
Tunbridge Wells and our newest office in 
Edinburgh have all grown ahead of forecasts 
over the last year. We will continue to look at 
regional opportunities over the coming year.
The Retail Distribution Review (‘RDR’) is 
scheduled for January 2013 and it will 
change the distribution models of most firms 
“I remain firmly of the view 
that private clients require 
a blend of service and 
investment performance in a 
risk controlled environment.“
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2010
5
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
in financial services. We are highly supportive 
of the proposed changes and see RDR as a 
considerable opportunity for the group over 
the next two years and beyond.
In July 2010 we completed the acquisition of 
the Braemar Group. Part of our growth 
strategy has been to look at niche funds and 
to make acquisitions where we can see 
strong medium term value. Braemar very 
much fitted these objectives. It manages 
over £500m of property and has £45m in 
specialist funds. Whilst still early days in 
terms of integration, I am pleased to report 
initial progress has been strong. I do not 
believe that in the first year the acquisition 
will be earnings enhancing due to the 
system development and new recruitment 
that will take place, but over the medium 
term (2011 onwards) I am confident that 
this will be a valuable addition to the group.
I remain firmly of the view that private 
clients require a blend of service and 
investment performance in a risk controlled 
environment. We continue to invest in 
the investment management process to 
expand our research and performance 
capabilities as well as investing in 
the development of our systems to 
enhance the offering to our clients. 
Over the year a number of landmarks were 
achieved. We passed through £2bn of funds 
under management, we announced further 
significant ‘hires’, added further strategic 
partners and were awarded the accolade of 
being one of the Best Companies in the UK 
to work for according to the Sunday Times. 
The latter was especially pleasing as it is a 
strong reflection of the ethos and culture of 
the group. During the year the company 
decided to establish the Brooks Macdonald 
Employee Benefit Trust to motivate and 
retain our employees, all of whom are 
potential beneficiaries of the Trust. 
I wish to end this report by thanking all 
members of staff. Total staff numbers 
have increased from 140 to 168 over 
the financial year, and now amount to 
over 200, and it remains a privilege to 
work alongside such a talented group of 
individuals. With growth being generated 
from a number of sources, an exceptional 
team and a robust balance sheet we 
continue to look forward with confidence.
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
14 September 2010
“With growth being 
generated from a number of 
sources, an exceptional team 
and a robust balance sheet 
we continue to look forward 
with confidence.”
