 02  |  Brooks Macdonald Group plc  |  Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s statement
  
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Against a backdrop of considerable 
market and political uncertainty, the 
group has made good progress. 
Discretionary funds under 
management grew organically in all 
areas of the business and revenues 
and profits increased while we 
continued to invest in the business.
Underlying pre-tax profit for the year 
was £15 .5m (2015: £15 . 1m), a rise of 
3%, although underlying earnings per 
share have fallen to 87 . 92p (2015: 
91 . 33p) . Statutory pre-tax profits for 
the year grew by 39% to £15 . 9m (2015: 
£11 . 4m), the scale of the increase 
resulting from a reduction in the 
estimated deferred consideration 
payable in future years to the vendors 
of Levitas Investment Management 
Services Limited .
The board is recommending a final 
dividend of 23 . 0p per share which, if 
approved by shareholders, will result 
in total dividends for the year of 35 . 0p . 
This is an increase of 15% over the 
total dividends paid the previous year 
of 30 .5p per share . The final dividend 
will be paid on 28 October 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 30 September 
2016 . We remain cash generative and 
have a strong balance sheet .
The EU referendum had an effect on 
our results . In the first half of the 
financial year we decided to postpone 
the launch of two new funds . In the 
second half, investment returns were 
challenging and in the final quarter 
investor sentiment was certainly 
weaker . In spite of these market 
conditions, our discretionary funds 
under management grew strongly 
over the year to over £8 . 30bn (2015: 
£7 . 41bn), a rise of 12 . 0% . This 
compares favourably to the growth of 
the WMA Balanced index of 4 . 6% . 
We will maintain our investment 
across the business to sustain our 
continued growth . This covers 
investment in research, governance, 
IT, distribution, marketing and most 
importantly our staff . Markets have 
improved since the EU referendum, 
but sentiment remains volatile . 
Despite the uncertainties surrounding 
our exit from the EU and the 
associated market volatility, we 
believe the strength of our investment 
proposition will enable us to deliver 
good risk-adjusted returns for our 
clients .
Brooks Macdonald was established 
twenty-five years ago, with three of its 
founders continuing to be actively 
involved in the business: Chris 
Macdonald, Jon Gumpel and Richard 
Spencer . From a modest office in Park 
Street employing a handful of people, 
the business has grown into a highly 
successful investment management 
group with twelve offices and nearly 
500 staff . We are proud of Brooks 
Macdonald’s history and confident 
that we can continue to build on what 
has been achieved over the last 
quarter century . The future, we 
believe, is bright .
 
Christopher Knight 
Chairman
20 September 2016
We will maintain our investment across the business to 
sustain our continued growth. This covers investment in 
research, governance, IT, distribution, marketing and most 
importantly our staff.
 
Christopher Knight Chairman
