 Annual Report & Accounts 2009 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s Review
This has been a strong year of 
growth for the group in spite of 
poor market conditions. In the first 
half of the financial year equity 
markets in particular faced sharp 
declines and whilst the economic 
position has improved (from a 
very low base) in the second half, 
sentiment still remains fragile. 
Against this backdrop it is 
therefore particularly pleasing to 
be able to report robust growth in 
the business.
Funds under management rose from £1,181 
million in June 2008 to £1,386 million, a rise 
of 17.4 per cent. It is a measure of 
investment performance, service levels and 
marketing success that this increase 
compares favourably to the APCIMS 
Balanced Index that fell 13.84 per cent over 
the year and the FTSE100 that was down 
22.5 per cent. Our strategy is based on 
multiple avenues of growth and I believe 
this puts the group in a strong position 
going forward. We have since the year-end 
announced the purchase of Lawrence House 
Fund Managers, the first acquisition 
undertaken by the group. Clearly the price 
has to be right for both sides but equally 
important are synergies and ‘fit’ and I am 
confident that Lawrence House will add to 
the group in all regards. 
Our regional presence has also increased 
over the year. Our offices in Winchester and 
Manchester have both had strong inflows of 
funds and clients and our most recent office 
outside London, in Tunbridge Wells, has got 
off to a very solid start. In addition we have 
opened an office in Edinburgh this month, 
which is another very exciting opportunity 
for the group. 
In London, our main office, growth remains 
strong and the five fund management 
teams have all shown growth in funds under 
management and the number of clients. In 
addition Financial Consulting and our 
central services have all recruited over the 
financial year. This is imperative as a key 
component of our growth is ensuring that 
we deliver service and performance in equal 
measure to our clients. Financial Consulting 
continues to be an important part of our 
wealth management proposition for private 
clients as well as our employee benefit 
service to corporate clients.
We continue to invest in improving our 
service delivery to clients. We have a highly 
skilled development team, who are 
constantly challenged with improving 
processes and systems. Over the last year 
they have established several third party 
data feeds and technological improvements 
to information systems. In addition we have 
recruited a Service Development Manager 
to head all project work. 
“Our strategy is based on 
multiple avenues for growth 
and I believe this has held us 
in good stead historically and 
puts the group in a strong 
position going forward.“
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2009
5
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
Investment performance in relative terms 
has been strong. Credit needs to be paid to 
our asset allocation committee and indeed 
the individual fund management teams who 
have avoided the major financial ‘landmines’ 
that have been exposed over the last year.
Our two principal services in Asset 
Management are discretionary fund 
management for high net worth clients and 
our discretionary Managed Portfolio Service, 
a fund of funds service for smaller clients. The 
latter is still a relatively new service but has 
grown considerably and has been a 
significant factor, together with our four 
Strategic Alliances, towards our strong profits 
and funds under management growth.
We continue to work closely with the top 
end of the IFA market and professional 
introducers. We have expanded our new 
business development team in all our offices 
as this is a sector to which we remain firmly 
committed. The recently announced Retail 
Distribution Review is encouraging and 
indeed supportive of this strategy as well as 
our own Financial Consultancy company.
In spite of recent, in our opinion poor, 
changes to pension legislation, our growth 
in SIPPs continues unabated. Indeed since 
the changes announced by the Chancellor 
in April, over 50 per cent of our new 
business has continued to be the 
management of SIPPs.
None of the above would have been 
possible without the energy, commitment 
and drive of all members of staff. We are in 
a privileged position of having a very strong 
team at all levels, to whom I extend my 
thanks. Staff numbers have grown to 140 
and I am pleased to state that in spite of 
considerable growth the firm remains a 
vibrant, open and fun place to work. 
The group has had a strong year in both 
absolute and relative terms. We have a strong 
balance sheet, team, client bank, distribution 
and investment model and thus we can 
continue to look forward with confidence.
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
14 September 2009
“The group has had a strong 
year in both absolute and 
relative terms.”
