 Annual Report & Accounts 2011
3
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Profit before tax has increased by 
28% from £5.68 million to £7.29 
million, on turnover which has 
increased by 49% to £52.18million. 
Earnings per share were 51.92p, 
compared with 38.10p for the 
previous year, an increase of 36%. 
As I reported in my interim statement, 
these results are after a charge of 
£545,000, being the levy imposed on 
Brooks Macdonald (in common with all 
other wealth managers) under the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme. 
The board has recommended a final 
dividend of 10p per share. If approved by 
shareholders this will result in total 
dividends for the year of 15p, an increase of 
67% over the dividends of 9p per share paid 
for the previous financial year.
Funds under management (FUM) at 30 June 
2011 were £2,969 million, an increase of 
£783 million or 36% over the figure a year 
earlier. When our shares were listed on AIM 
in 2005, our FUM were £315 million. This 
nine-fold increase in six years is a remarkable 
achievement and one, we believe, which 
reflects both the excellent service we 
provide to our clients and the strength of 
our relationship with our partners and 
professional introducers.
Since the year-end we have launched our 
funds business, initially consisting of the 
three funds we acquired as part of Braemar 
Group and four existing Brooks Macdonald 
funds. We are now marketing our funds to a 
wider group of potential investors. 
In November we plan to open our sixth 
private client regional office in Taunton, 
where we have recently announced the 
acquisition of the investment management 
department of Clarke Willmott LLP. The 
acquisition will add over c. £120 million to 
our FUM. Our regional offices are closely 
associated with our Strategic Alliance 
partners and hence are an important part of 
our growth strategy.
We are pleased to welcome Diane Seymour- 
Williams as a non-executive director. Diane 
has had a distinguished career in investment 
management having spent over twenty 
years at Morgan Grenfell/Deutsche Asset 
Management. She is now an executive 
director of Lloyd George Management and 
a non-executive director of both Calculus 
Capital and of Witan Pacific Investment 
Trust and will undoubtedly be a valuable 
addition to the Brooks Macdonald Board.
The UK economy faces significant economic 
challenges, the eurozone is in turmoil and 
the US has a balance of payments problem 
that it is struggling to address. In 
challenging markets our approach remains 
unchanged: we look to invest our clients’ 
funds with caution while providing them 
with an efficient and transparent service. We 
believe that this approach will continue to 
stand them and Brooks Macdonald in good 
stead as we continue to build our business.
Christopher Knight 
Chairman
13 September 2011
“I am pleased to report on 
another year of significant 
growth for the Group”
Chairman’s Statement
Christopher Knight, Chairman
