 Annual Report & Accounts 2012
3
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
In a year of poor investment 
markets, fragile investor sentiment 
and considerable regulatory 
change, I am pleased to report 
continued progress for the group. 
Proﬁt before tax has increased by 17% 
from £7.29m to £8.52m. Earnings per 
share are 57.94p compared with 51.92p, 
an increase of 12%. 
The board is recommending a ﬁnal 
dividend of 12.5p per share which, if 
approved by shareholders, will result in 
total dividends for the year of 18.5p per 
share. This represents an increase of 23% 
over last year’s dividends of 15p per share. 
Our discretionary funds under 
management as at 30 June 2012 were 
£3.52 billion, a rise of 19% (30 June 2011: 
£2.97bn) over the twelve months. By 
comparison the APCIMS Balanced index fell 
by 2% and the FTSE 100 by over 6% 
during that period. Included in this ﬁgure is 
Brooks Macdonald Funds which had funds 
under management of £148m at the year 
end (£101m June 2011). 
Property assets under administration, 
managed by Braemar Estates, grew to 
£865m, an increase of 15% (£750m June 
2011) over the ﬁnancial year and third 
party assets under administration are now 
in excess of £50m. We intend to report our 
property assets under administration and 
our third party assets under administration 
every six months, while continuing to 
report on a quarterly basis our discretionary 
funds under management including those 
in our Funds business.
During the year we completed the 
acquisition of the Investment Management 
department of Clarke Willmott LLP which 
has formed the nucleus of our new ofﬁce in 
Taunton. This acquisition added £114m to 
funds under management. In April we 
opened our seventh regional ofﬁce in York. 
Since the year end we have acquired Park 
Street London Limited, a long term 
introducer of funds and clients to the group. 
These acquisitions have been funded from 
the group’s own cash resources.
In addition to these acquisitions the group 
has continued to invest signiﬁcantly in its 
future. Our Funds business has made good 
progress, particularly since the year end 
with the appointment of Braemar Estates as 
the property manager for the newly 
launched Ground Rents Income Fund plc, 
which raised some £50m on ﬂotation. In 
April we became an Application Service 
Provider, enabling us to offer third party 
administration services. We are optimistic 
about the long term potential of this new 
revenue stream. 
The economic outlook remains challenging, 
markets are lacklustre and the launch of the 
Retail Distribution Review in January 2013 
will lead to signiﬁcant changes. Enhanced 
regulation is involving the industry in 
materially greater cost. Despite the difﬁcult 
macroeconomic outlook the group 
continues to make good headway whilst 
striving to ensure that we deliver strong 
risk adjusted returns for our clients in a 
service-led and transparent environment.
Christopher Knight 
Chairman
12 September 2012
“...the group has 
continued to invest 
signiﬁcantly in its future” 
Chairman’s statement
Christopher Knight, Chairman
