 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
3
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
I am pleased to report another 
successful year for Brooks 
Macdonald, achieved despite 
turbulent market conditions.
On a turnover 30 per cent higher at £21.8 
million, we report a pre-tax profit of £3.18 
million compared with £2.03 million in the 
previous financial year, an increase of 57 per 
cent. Earnings per share were 22.56p, an 
increase of 82 per cent. 
Funds under management at 30 June 2009 
stood at £1,386 million, compared with 
£1,181 million a year earlier, an increase of 
17 per cent. We are particularly pleased to 
have grown our funds under management 
during a period when markets globally have 
been so challenged.
The Board has decided to recommend a 
dividend of 5.5p per share, compared with 
3.5p for the previous financial year.
In April we opened an office in Tunbridge 
Wells which has got off to a good start and 
which will be expanded by the acquisition 
of Lawrence House, the Kent fund manager 
which we recently announced. We have also 
announced the opening of an office in 
Edinburgh which together with the 
recruitment of a senior team further 
expands our regional presence.
Staff retention has always been a hallmark of 
Brooks Macdonald. With the increase in the 
number of our staff, the board believes that 
it is appropriate to increase the amount of 
share capital over which options can be 
granted from 10 to 15 per cent. 
Shareholders will be asked to approve this 
increase at the AGM on 16 October.
The continued expansion of our business in 
a period of economic uncertainty and 
market volatility reflects a robust investment 
process, our emphasis on client service and 
the strength of our relationships with 
intermediaries and other introducers. It also 
reflects the professionalism and dedication 
of our staff to whom I record my thanks.
Christopher Knight 
Chairman
14 September 2009
“...another successful year 
for Brooks Macdonald, 
achieved despite turbulent 
market conditions.”
Chairman’s Statement
Christopher Knight, Chairman
