 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s Review
Introduction
In spite of a volatile macroeconomic 
backdrop this has been another highly 
successful year for the Group. We have 
delivered value to our clients, shareholders 
and staff whilst critically maintaining our 
strong corporate ethos and culture. 
Funds under management 
Discretionary funds under management 
over the period rose from £2,186 million to 
£2,969 million representing an increase of 
36%. As a comparison the APCIMS balanced 
index rose by 14% over the same period. 
This rise comes as a result of a combination 
of continuing strong new business and very 
solid investment performance across all risk 
mandates. Our principal areas of investment 
management are the management of 
private portfolios, self invested personal 
pensions and charities and trusts and I am 
pleased to report that we have seen growth 
in all three areas. 
Strategies for growth 
We have, and will continue to pursue, a 
number of strategies for growth, principally 
as follows: expanding by organic investment 
in our core businesses, acquiring investment 
management teams, expanding our 
regional presence and developing our 
product and service offering. 
Organic investment continues apace. We 
have expanded all parts of the business over 
the reporting period with growth in 
professional staff, senior hires in Compliance 
and Risk, Marketing, Trainees, Operations 
and New Business Development. Total staff 
numbers increased from 164 to 247, 
including an increase in investment 
managers from 35 to 43. Two trainees 
qualified as Investment Managers over the 
year. We remain firmly committed to our 
trainee programme and currently have 13 
trainees who give us considerable capacity 
for the future as well as allowing us to recruit 
high quality graduates into the sector. 
We continue to develop our product and 
service offering. We currently undertake 
around 85% of the back office functionality 
within Asset Management and over the next 
nine months we will be looking to 
undertake 100% in house. Whilst this will 
involve additional capital investment, it will 
improve further our service offering to 
clients and appropriately position the 
business to handle further growth. Service 
development and robust transparent 
investment performance are key beliefs of 
the business.
We have six offices throughout the UK with 
our office in Hale being the focus for our 
Estates and Funds business. All other offices 
are focussed on private clients and our 
growth has been strong across each 
location. Outside London our Hampshire 
and Manchester offices are the oldest 
(opening in 2005 and 2007 respectively) 
and these two offices have both had an 
exceptionally strong year.
New Taunton Office
In addition, as announced on 5 August 
2011, we will be opening a new office in 
November in the South West of England, 
based in Taunton. This is as a result of our 
acquisition of the investment management 
department of Clarke Willmott LLP, the 
national law firm. As well as being a strong 
fit in terms of culture, the investment 
management team is a talented one. 
Forming a relationship with Clarke Willmott 
also gives the Group the opportunity of 
working closer with the legal practice in all 
their regional offices. We are excited not only 
about the acquisition but by the opportunity 
of this new potential avenue for growth. 
“We have delivered value 
to our clients, shareholders 
and staff whilst critically 
maintaining our strong 
corporate ethos and culture“
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2011
5
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
Strategic Alliances
Our new business is supported by both 
Strategic Alliances and introductions from 
other professional services sectors. We now 
have nine strategic partners and have 
commercial arrangements with over 240 
quality professional services firms 
(Independent Financial Advisors, private client 
legal or accountancy practices). This number 
has risen by over 33% over the reporting 
period which represents our strongest period 
of growth since inception. I would like to go 
on record thanking all our professional 
connections for their continued support.
Braemar and launch of  
Funds business 
The acquisition of Braemar Group plc 
completed in the last financial year and 
comprised of two businesses: Estates and 
Securities. The Estates business has continued 
its growth, now managing over £750 million 
of property assets, and gives the Group 
another avenue for recurrent income growth. 
The Securities business has been used as the 
‘launch pad’ for our Funds Business which 
we announced in July 2011. As a Group we 
have a highly successful Managed Portfolio 
Service (‘MPS’) that offers clients with 
£200,000 or less to have access to our fund 
management service by investing into a 
portfolio managed by risk mandates.  
A natural extension of this was to launch a 
unitised version and this together with the 
existing three Braemar funds and our 
Structured Growth fund forms the basis of 
the new Funds business. Whilst clearly early 
days, initial progress is encouraging.
Financial Consulting 
Our Financial Consulting arm continues to 
grow organically. It has been another year of 
progress developing and maintaining alliances 
with solicitors, accountants and investment 
managers allowing us to work as part of a 
team in the management of client affairs.
Regulation 
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR) comes 
into force in January 2013. Transparency of 
charges, high professional standards, clarity 
of services and an industry that engages 
with consumers are some of the key 
outcomes of RDR. These are outcomes that 
we fully support and we are excited by the 
opportunities both before and beyond the 
implementation of RDR. 
Brooks Macdonald Foundation 
During the year we established the Brooks 
Macdonald Foundation that supports a 
range of charities that our staff have 
connections with. I would like to thank the 
trustees for their hard work in establishing 
the Foundation and all the staff involved in 
making this happen. 
Summary and Outlook
In September of this year we will have been 
trading for 20 years. We are proud of what 
has been achieved in that period and look 
ahead with confidence. Since the period 
end and despite challenging markets, we 
have witnessed continued inflows of funds 
through our private client offices and 
professional contacts and our funds business 
continues to progress well.
This is in the main due to the quality of our 
staff. I would like to end this report by 
thanking them all for their continued hard 
work, drive and professionalism over the  
last year. 
 
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
13 September 2011
“Our principal areas of 
investment management 
are the management of 
private portfolios, self 
invested personal pensions 
and charities and trusts 
and I am pleased to report 
that we have seen growth 
in all three areas”
