 Annual Report & Accounts 2010
3
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
This has been another strong year 
for Brooks Macdonald, with 
pre-tax profit increasing by 78% 
to £5.7m. Earnings per share were 
38.10p, an increase of 69%.
On the back of these excellent results the 
Board has decided to recommend a final 
dividend of 6p per share. This, following our 
maiden interim dividend in March 2010 of 
3p, represents a 64% increase in total 
dividends over last year, when a single 
dividend of 5.5p was paid.
Funds under management at 30 June 2010 
were £2.186bn, compared with £1.386bn a 
year earlier, an increase of 57%. We are 
delighted that FUM now exceed £2bn, a 
milestone which reflects the group’s robust 
business model, consistent investment 
performance across all risk mandates and the 
continued ability to generate new business 
from both on-going and new relationships.
The momentum seen in the first half of the 
year carried through into the second half 
and beyond. Since the end of the financial 
year we have completed the acquisition of 
Braemar Group, a specialist manager of 
property funds. This acquisition was 
undertaken only after careful consideration 
of its “fit” with Brooks Macdonald in terms 
of company values as well as its ability to 
enhance shareholder value.
In April I was pleased to welcome Nicholas 
Holmes and Andrew Shepherd to the Board. 
As Joint Managing Directors of our asset 
management company they have played a 
major role in the growth of our business. 
Colin Harris, the former Chief Executive 
Officer of Newton Investment Group, was 
appointed a non executive director in July. I 
am confident that Colin’s experience and 
expertise will be of significant value to Brooks 
Macdonald as we continue to expand. 
Market conditions remain volatile but they 
have provided some ‘tailwind’ over the 
period in terms of assisting growth. However 
none of the progress of the group would 
have been possible without the hard work, 
dedication and professionalism of our staff. 
The year under review was one of significant 
progress for Brooks Macdonald. Our strong 
balance sheet, growing brand and the 
strength and depth of talent throughout the 
group give the Board confidence that our 
progress will continue in the current year.
 
 
 
Christopher Knight 
Chairman
14 September 2010
“The year under review was 
one of significant progress 
for Brooks Macdonald.”
Chairman’s Statement
Christopher Knight, Chairman
