 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Brooks Macdonald Group plc
4
Chief Executive’s review
Introduction
This has been a year of considerable 
expansion for the Group against a backdrop 
of significant regulatory changes and our 
success over the last year has only been 
possible with the continued hard work and 
professionalism of all our staff, together with 
the support of our professional introducers 
and shareholders. I would like to thank all 
parties for their significant contributions to 
these results.
I am pleased to report that we have seen 
growth across all of our existing 
businesses (Asset Management, Financial 
Consulting, Property Management, 
Investment Services and Funds) over the 
course of the financial year.
Funds under management 
Our discretionary funds under management 
went through a significant landmark in the 
year going through £5bn. As at 30 June 
2013 this had risen to £5.11bn, a rise of 
45% over the twelve month period 
supported by rising investment markets and 
the acquisition of Spearpoint. Stripping out 
market growth and the acquisition this 
amounted to organic growth at over 15% 
over the year. A large proportion of our new 
business is introduced by professional 
intermediaries and we remain firmly 
committed to maintaining this strategy.
We have three principal offerings: our 
Bespoke Portfolio Service (BPS) for high net 
worth individuals (whether this be private 
portfolios, Self Invested Personal Pensions or 
Trusts); Managed Portfolio Service (MPS), 
which caters for smaller portfolios on a 
modular basis; and our funds business, which 
offers units in a number of funds. The 
dynamics behind all three services are 
becoming increasingly different in part due 
to the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) but 
also due to significant changes in the 
distribution landscape. BPS has not changed 
in that we offer a complete investment 
management service to high net worth 
clients including custody of assets. Whilst the 
popularity of MPS continues, custody and 
the use of platforms have altered the pricing 
of the service and to this end we have 
reacted to the changes in the industry and 
rebased our fees for this service. 
In our funds business we continue to offer 
highly niche funds or unitised versions of our 
MPS range of risk rated portfolios, and this 
continues to gain momentum with £390m 
(£329m net of the acquisition) under 
management at the year end, growing from 
£148m at the end of June 2012.
Strategies for growth 
Our expansion has always revolved around 
organic growth, ongoing investment in the 
business and both service and performance 
development. 
This past year has been no different in that we 
completed two acquisitions, the first in July 
2012 when we acquired JPAM Limited - a long 
term introducer - and the second in 
November 2012 when we acquired 
Spearpoint. The latter comprised two 
businesses: Investment Management and 
Retirement Services. It was a substantial step 
forward for the Group giving us the 
opportunity to expand our ‘footprint’ outside 
the UK. The first seven months since 
acquisition have been focused around 
integrating the business into the wider group. 
Going forward our collective aim is to grow 
the business around BPS, advisory services, 
retirement advice and later this year the 
“This has been a year of 
considerable expansion 
for the Group against a 
backdrop of significant 
regulatory changes”
“We continue to invest in 
service and performance 
development”
Chris Macdonald, Chief Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2013
5
Brooks Macdonald Group plc
Chief Executive’s review
launch of an offshore MPS offering. The 
acquisition and integration has been 
successful and has taken a lot of hard work 
from all parties but I would like to thank the 
staff of Spearpoint for their considerable 
endeavours in making this possible.
Our organic growth has been strong across 
the Group. This growth continues to be 
supported by professional intermediaries and 
more recently by a number of institutional 
investors that have backed our new fund 
launches. We now have over 540 firms 
introducing work to the firm from across the 
UK. This is supported by all our regional 
offices and is something we wish to repeat 
offshore through our offices in Jersey and 
Guernsey. Our largest office remains our 
headquarters in London but we now have 
bases in Hampshire, Manchester, Tunbridge 
Wells, Edinburgh, Hale (where our property 
management business, Braemar Estates, is 
based), Taunton, York, Jersey and Guernsey. 
We will be opening an office in the Midlands 
(in Leamington Spa) in mid September, thus 
ensuring that we can support professional 
intermediaries and clients alike in every region 
in the UK.
Our staff numbers have increased over the 
year from 282 to 376. We have recruited at 
all levels across the Group including senior 
management (for example Chris March 
being appointed as CEO of our Estates 
business), further trainees (in Funds, Asset 
Management and Financial Consulting) and 
in central services. Whilst we continue to 
grow it is imperative we both build for 
future capacity but also retain the very 
strong culture of the business.
We continue to invest in service and 
performance development. This ranges from 
‘central’ infrastructure spending (upgrading 
of our existing IT to hosting our data in 
third party data centres and web 
development), the re-papering of all our 
clients with the recent developments 
around suitability of advice and further 
resources in investment research and 
monitoring. In the last example I am 
pleased that we have continued to perform 
well for our clients providing strong 
risk-adjusted returns. 
The growth of SIPPs continues and this is now 
further supported by legislative change 
around auto enrolment. We will be looking to 
launch a specific auto enrolment service later 
this year utilising our own funds and this will 
apply both on and offshore. This is an 
opportunity we are increasingly excited about.
Our brand development has also continued to 
gain traction. Over the last three years we 
have focussed most of our endeavours on the 
professional intermediary market. We will 
certainly continue this whilst also focusing on 
increasing our brand recognition with our 
underlying clients. I am also pleased that once 
again we featured in the Sunday Times 100 
Best Companies to work for, were awarded 
five star ratings from Defaqto for both MPS 
and BPS and were also awarded Private Client 
Investment Manager of the year (AQC) and 
the Best Wealth Management Firm UK 
(Wealth Advisor Awards).
Regulation
On 1 January 2013 RDR came into force. 
This was a substantial change to the whole 
of the financial services industry with a focus 
on transparency of charging, greater 
consumer clarity and the raising of 
professional standards and corporate 
stability. These are changes that we fully 
support but the costs associated with 
increased regulation have become and 
remain substantial. Whilst we feel that these 
costs have peaked in terms of percentage of 
turnover, they have not been passed on to 
clients. This is something that we and, we 
believe, the whole of the industry will have 
to consider over the coming years.
Summary and outlook 
I will repeat the comments I made in my 
review in 2012, that the last year was a 
tough one. Investment markets were 
supportive but the quantum of change, 
particularly in the distribution of financial 
services and regulation, meant that the 
business had to be highly dynamic. I am 
pleased that against this backdrop the 
Group made substantial progress. 
For the coming year our outlook for 
investment returns remains cautiously 
optimistic. We believe that there will be a 
more stable background for regulatory 
change, that there will continue to be margin 
pressures on non-bespoke services and that 
there will be numerous opportunities for the 
Group. Despite the short term margin 
pressures we have flagged, we are a 
progressive business and therefore will 
continue to invest for the future.
I am pleased to report further organic 
growth in funds under management in the 
early months of the new financial year. The 
Board remains confident for the future 
prospects of the Group.
Chris Macdonald 
Chief Executive
10 September 2013
