 Chief Executive’s review
Bunzl’s continued 
success is based 
on our extensive 
knowledge and 
experience of the 
markets in which we 
operate and a deep 
understanding of 
our customers’ 
requirements.
Operating performance
With more than 85% of the Group’s revenue 
generated outside the UK, the weakening 
of sterling against most currencies has had 
a significant positive translation impact on 
the Group’s reported results, increasing 
revenue, profits and earnings by 
approximately 10%. As in previous years, 
the operations, including the relevant 
growth rates and changes in operating 
margins, are therefore reviewed below 
at constant exchange rates to remove 
the distorting impact of these currency 
movements. Changes in the level of revenue 
and profits at constant exchange rates have 
been calculated by retranslating the results 
for 2015 at the average rates used for 2016. 
Unless otherwise stated, all references 
in this review to operating profit are to 
adjusted operating profit (being operating 
profit before customer relationships 
amortisation and acquisition related costs). 
Revenue increased 4% (14% at actual 
exchange rates) to £7,429.1 million, 
principally due to the effect of recent 
acquisitions together with some organic 
growth. Although the level of organic 
growth at 0.3% was subdued for most of 
the year by the impact of some previously 
announced customer losses and price 
declines on plastic resin-based products, it 
started to improve during the fourth quarter 
to approximately 1.5% as a result of recent 
business wins and the abatement of the 
Highlights
North America
Improved organic growth as year 
progressed from additional business 
won and abatement of price declines 
on plastic products
Continental Europe
Strong revenue and profit growth with 
operating margin up 20bp to 9.3%
UK & Ireland
Operating margin maintained at 7.7% 
despite previously announced account 
loss and subdued market conditions
Rest of the World
Adjusted operating profit up 4%
†
 as a 
result of acquisitions although margins 
remained under pressure due to 
market conditions
Frank van Zanten
Chief Executive
† At constant exchange rates.
18
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review impact of such price declines. Operating 
profit was £525.0 million, an increase of 
5% (15% at actual exchange rates). The 
percentage growth in operating profit was 
greater than that of revenue due to the 
impact of higher margin acquisitions, 
resulting in an improvement in the Group 
operating margin by 10 basis points at both 
constant and actual exchange rates to 7.1%.
In North America revenue rose 3% (15% 
at actual exchange rates) principally due 
to the impact of acquisitions completed in 
both 2015 and 2016, while operating profit 
increased 4% (16% at actual exchange rates) 
with the operating margin unchanged at 
both constant and actual exchange rates at 
6.6%. Revenue in Continental Europe rose 
10% (24% at actual exchange rates) as a 
result of organic revenue growth and the 
impact of acquisitions, with operating profit 
up 13% (27% at actual exchange rates) and 
the operating margin up 20 basis points at 
both constant and actual exchange rates to 
9.3%. In UK & Ireland revenue was down 2% 
(down 1% at actual exchange rates) with a 
decline in organic revenue principally due to 
a previously announced account loss in our 
food retail business at the beginning of 2016. 
Operating profit also reduced 2% (down 1% 
at actual exchange rates) with the operating 
margin stable at both constant and actual 
exchange rates at 7.7%. In Rest of the World 
revenue increased 11% (21% at actual 
exchange rates) with operating profit up 4% 
(11% at actual exchange rates) due to the 
impact of acquisitions completed in 2015, 
particularly in Latin America. Margins came 
under pressure due to the challenging 
macroeconomic conditions and some 
adverse foreign exchange transaction 
impact of weaker local currencies in the 
relevant markets in both Latin America 
and Australasia, with the business area 
operating margin down 50 basis points 
(70 basis points at actual exchange rates) 
to 7.5%.
Basic earnings per share were 4% higher 
(14% at actual exchange rates) at 80.7p. 
Adjusted earnings per share, which 
excludes the effect of customer 
relationships amortisation and acquisition 
related costs, were 106.1p, an increase of 
6% (17% at actual exchange rates).
The operating cash flow, which is before 
acquisition related costs, continued to be 
strong with cash conversion (the ratio of 
operating cash flow to adjusted operating 
profit) at 99%. The ratio of net debt to 
EBITDA calculated at average exchange 
rates decreased from 2.1 times as at the end 
of 2015 to 2.0 times, which is at the lower 
end of our target range of 2.0 to 2.5 times.
As a responsible business, Bunzl actively 
promotes sustainability and we continually 
challenge ourselves to reduce the 
environmental footprint of our operations, 
introduce more sustainable practices to the 
businesses we acquire and improve the 
safety of all our sites. We remain committed 
to reducing our impact on the environment 
and supporting the communities within 
which we operate. Once again a rigorous 
assessment of our supply chain with regard 
to social issues has been undertaken and 
in our Corporate responsibility report we 
seek to show the benefits of our collective 
endeavours on the lives of our people, 
suppliers and customers. During the year 
we undertook a detailed employee survey 
and were delighted that 82% of our 
employees took part and 93% of 
respondents ‘enjoy the work they do’. 
Finally, our focus on collaboration and the 
sharing of best practice continues to bring 
opportunities for our colleagues to work 
together, contributing greatly to Bunzl’s 
continued success.
Acquisitions
Acquisitions are a key component of the 
Group’s growth strategy. Our committed 
spend in 2016 was £184 million from a 
total of 14 transactions, including Saebe 
Compagniet and Prorisk and GM 
Equipement which we agreed to acquire 
in November 2016 and completed in 
January 2017.
At the beginning of February we purchased 
Earthwise Bag, a distributor of reusable 
bags to supermarkets and other retailers in 
the US, which has expanded our offering of 
environmentally friendly products. Revenue 
in 2015 was £12 million. Bursa Pazari, which 
had revenue of £31 million in 2015, was 
acquired at the end of March and represents 
our second step in Turkey, extending our 
operations there into the foodservice and 
healthcare sectors. It is engaged in the 
sale of a variety of packaging and other 
foodservice supplies and disposable gloves 
to wholesalers, retailers and hospitals 
throughout Turkey and also exports to a 
number of countries.
At the end of May we completed three 
further acquisitions. Inkozell and Mo Ha Ge 
are both engaged in the sale of healthcare 
related consumables, mainly incontinence 
products, to a variety of home end users 
and care homes throughout Germany. The 
aggregate revenue of the businesses in 2015 
was £16 million. In the UK we purchased 
Classic Bag which develops and distributes 
bespoke retail packaging for non-food 
retailers in the UK, Hong Kong and 
elsewhere in Europe. It complements our 
existing retail supplies business in the UK, 
enhances our customer base and extends 
our presence in this market in Hong Kong. 
Revenue in 2015 was £7 million. Polaris 
Chemicals distributes cleaning & hygiene 
supplies to both redistributors and end 
users, including government and education 
establishments, retirement homes and 
19
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Chief Executive’s review continued
cleaning companies, throughout the 
Brussels and Walloon regions of Belgium. 
The acquisition has brought additional scale 
to our cleaning & hygiene supplies business 
in Belgium. Revenue in 2015 was £3 million. 
The purchase in July of Plus II and Apex, 
which had revenues in 2015 of £16 million 
and £6 million respectively, has further 
expanded our cleaning & hygiene supplies 
business in Canada which has grown 
significantly in recent years through 
acquisition. At the end of August we 
acquired Blyth, a Prague based distributor 
of a broad range of personal protection 
equipment to a variety of end user 
customers throughout the Czech Republic 
and Slovakia. Revenue in 2015 was 
£5 million.
In September we purchased three further 
businesses. Kingsbury Packaging, which is 
located in Northern Ireland and had revenue 
of £5 million in 2015, supplies food 
packaging related products to convenience 
stores and food retailers in Ireland. Silwell 
has provided additional scale to our 
business in Hungary by extending our 
operations there in the foodservice sector. 
Revenue in 2015 was £6 million. Tri-Star 
Packaging is also engaged in the 
distribution of food packaging and 
foodservice products, as well as some 
cleaning & hygiene consumables, to end 
user customers including ‘food-to-go’ 
retailers, contract caterers and food 
processors throughout the UK. Revenue 
in 2015 was £28 million.
At the end of December we acquired 
Woodway, a leading supplier of packaging 
products and solutions to a variety of end 
user customers in the UK. It specialises in 
supporting the e-commerce activities of 
retailers and had revenue in the year ended 
June 2016 of £31 million.
In November we entered into agreements to 
acquire Saebe Compagniet in Denmark and 
Prorisk and GM Equipement in France, both 
of which were completed in January 2017. 
Saebe Compagniet is a distributor of 
cleaning & hygiene related products to a 
variety of end user customers, particularly 
in the hotel, restaurant and catering 
sectors, in Denmark. Revenue in the year 
ended April 2016 was £13 million. Prorisk 
and GM Equipement, which together had 
aggregate revenue in 2015 of £6 million, are 
principally engaged in the sale of a variety of 
personal protection equipment and first aid 
related products to both end users and 
distributors throughout France.
Since the year end we have acquired two 
further businesses. In early January 2017 
we purchased the business of Packaging 
Film Sales which distributes food packaging 
products, including flexible barrier films 
and speciality bags and pouches, to food 
processors in the US. Revenue in 2015 was 
£5 million. Finally, today we are announcing 
the acquisition of LSH, a distributor of safety 
products, primarily to end users, based in 
Singapore which was completed at the end 
of January 2017. This represents our first 
step into Singapore and should provide a 
base from which to develop our operations 
in Asia. Revenue in 2016 was £5 million.
Prospects
Against the backdrop of mixed 
macroeconomic and market conditions, 
the combination of our strong competitive 
position, diversified and resilient businesses 
and ability to consolidate our fragmented 
markets further is expected to lead to 
continued growth. If exchange rates remain 
at their current levels, the significant 
weakening of sterling last year will have 
a further positive translation effect on the 
reported results in 2017, particularly in the 
first half.
In North America, the pick up in organic 
revenue growth towards the end of 2016 is 
expected to continue due to some additional 
business won, albeit at lower margins, and 
the abatement of the impact of price 
declines on plastic resin-based products. 
In Continental Europe we expect to see a 
good performance due to the benefit of 
acquisitions and organic growth. Despite 
ongoing uncertainty in some of our markets, 
UK & Ireland should make progress due to 
the impact of acquisitions and the benefit of 
a recent account win, although we continue 
to focus on mitigating the adverse foreign 
exchange transaction impact from the 
weakening of sterling. With many of the 
economies in Rest of the World showing 
less volatility and the major local currencies 
having strengthened, we expect to see a 
more stable trading performance from our 
businesses there.
The pipeline of potential acquisitions 
remains promising. We are in discussions 
with various targets and we expect to 
complete further transactions during 2017.
The Board believes that the prospects of the 
Group are positive due to its strong market 
position and ability to grow the business 
both organically and through acquisitions.
Frank van Zanten
Chief Executive  
27 February 2017
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
20
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review Kim Hetherington
Managing Director Australasia
Paul Budge
Managing Director Continental Europe
Julie Welch
Director of Group Human Resources
Andrew Mooney
Director of Corporate Development
Jonathan Taylor
Managing Director Latin America
Paul Hussey
General Counsel & Company Secretary
Andrew Tedbury
Managing Director UK & Ireland
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO North America
Brian May
Finance Director
Management
Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
Everyone at Bunzl makes a key contribution to the 
successful growth and development of the business 
through the application of their diverse skills and 
experiences and their dedication and commitment 
to see the Group progress.
Frank van Zanten
Chief Executive
21
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 In North America, revenue increased by 3% 
to £4,362.1 million due to the impact of the 
acquisitions completed in 2015 and 2016 as 
well as organic growth of 1%, the level of 
which improved relative to that achieved in 
2015. The recent acquisitions have expanded 
our footprint in several of our market 
sectors while adding further products and 
services to our portfolio. Although we 
continued to face challenges in growing 
sales organically due to deflationary 
pressures on product prices and slow 
growth rates in several customer sectors, 
we saw a pick up during the fourth quarter 
of the year due to some additional business 
won and the abatement of the impact of 
price declines on plastic resin-based 
products towards the end of the year. 
Operating profit increased 4% to £289.6 
million with the operating margin remaining 
unchanged at 6.6%.
Despite the deflationary pressures on 
product prices that persisted for most of the 
year, our largest business serving the 
grocery sector grew as a result of securing 
new contract wins and expanding business 
with existing customers. We have activated 
our ‘pick-and-pack’ services at several 
large customers to provide many new items 
and offer a wider range of products with the 
convenience of single source delivery. 
Additionally, the acquisition of Earthwise 
Bag, acquired in February 2016, has 
strengthened our offering in eco-friendly 
products through the supply of reusable 
bags that can be custom-branded for 
promotional purposes. Our expanded 
product offering combined with our flexible 
store delivery programmes allow us to 
deliver unmatched service and improved 
asset utilisation for our customers. For our 
largest customer we have also agreed to 
take on the distribution of a range of 
additional items which are new to the 
business area and which we expect to offer 
to other customers operating in both the 
grocery and retail sectors.
Overall, our business serving the retail 
sector remained stable with the adverse 
impact of some lost accounts being offset by 
new business secured during the year. We 
have expanded our available products as 
well as enhanced our service capabilities by 
consolidating operations to provide faster 
deliveries. Our network of warehouses 
and fleet of trucks provide an attractive 
business model for large retailers with 
expansive footprints requiring distribution 
to multiple locations. We have continued 
to promote our material consolidation 
services, primarily used by our largest 
retail customer, to retailers with similar 
operations. Our materials management 
capabilities help retailers reduce costs and 
open or remodel stores faster so that they 
can begin generating revenue sooner.
In our business serving the redistribution 
sector, we have experienced growth 
through the implementation of category 
management programmes at new and 
already established foodservice distribution 
customers. These engagements often begin 
using innovative, proprietary digital tools to 
illustrate to both prospective and existing 
customers the substantial revenue 
generating opportunities that a complete 
redistribution programme has to offer. 
Our customers rely 
on our sourcing 
expertise, the 
depth and breadth 
of our product 
offering and the 
comprehensive 
service we provide 
from our extensive 
distribution facilities.
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO 
North America
North America
Highlights
2016
£m
2015
◊
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 4,362.1 3,784.2 3%
Adjusted operating profit* 289.6 249.0 4%
Operating margin* 6.6% 6.6%
*  Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs 
(see Note 2w on page 102).
◊
  Restated to reflect the internal transfer of a business from Continental Europe 
(see Note 3 on page 104).
Revenue increase from acquisitions and 
improved organic growth
Growth in grocery from contract wins and expansion 
of business with existing customers
Redistribution growth from category 
management programmes
Safety impacted by downturn in oil and gas sector
Strong growth in business serving food processor, 
convenience stores and agricultural sectors
Further expansion of national distribution 
platform in Canada
22
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review We are expanding our sales of janitorial and 
sanitation (‘jan-san’) products in this sector 
and others through our central warehouse 
initiative. In support of this initiative, we 
opened a warehouse in the north east  
US for the stocking and distribution of 
jan-san products in the region and we 
have continued to enhance our central 
warehouse infrastructure and jan-san 
inventory in strategic US locations.  
We have also continued to drive sales 
through innovative products such as our 
proprietary oneSAFE
 
single-use glove 
dispensing system.
Our business serving the safety sector 
experienced a difficult year with lower 
revenue and operating profit due to a 
downturn in the oil and gas industry as well 
as some weakness in the welding segment. 
Despite these factors, we have made gains 
in other areas, such as the automotive and 
industrial markets. We have taken steps to 
reduce operating costs while seeking new 
ways to expand our business. We have also 
continued to invest in the development of 
our own brand of personal protection 
equipment. These products contribute 
higher margins while at the same time allow 
us to offer added value to our customers 
when compared to branded alternatives.
In our business serving the food processor 
sector, although customer consolidation has 
continued, we have expanded our existing 
customer relationships and gained new 
business by offering a total plant operating 
supplies programme. This one-stop-shop 
solution encompasses jan-san and safety 
products as well as our own label products 
including vacuum pouches, shrink wrap 
bags and bin liners. Our national accounts 
sales team is continually looking to drive 
sales by identifying and pursuing customers 
who understand the benefit of a single-
source solution for their plant operations. 
We have also seen growth in our business 
that supplies the agricultural sector. 
The business is achieving greater levels 
of profitability after migrating all of our 
companies serving this sector onto a 
unified IT platform that includes a 
warehouse management system which 
has enhanced operational efficiencies 
across the business.
Our business serving the convenience 
store sector has grown strongly despite 
competition from non-traditional suppliers 
as well as some customer consolidation. We 
continue to execute our pull-through selling 
strategy by partnering with our primary 
wholesale customers to help them increase 
sales with convenience store retailers 
and we have expanded this business with 
the addition of other items carried by 
convenience stores. Our ability to manage 
our customers’ inventory enables them to 
have the right products at the right time so 
that they can reduce their working capital 
and warehouse space needs. We have also 
improved our transportation efficiencies 
and inventory management capabilities in 
this sector.
Our business in Canada continues to 
operate successfully with all of the recent 
acquisitions continuing to perform well. In 
the second half of the year we acquired two 
further businesses, Apex in Toronto and 
Plus II in Montreal, which have allowed 
us to expand our jan-san products and 
services in the region as well as our 
e-commerce capabilities for our Canadian 
customers. We continue to leverage our 
national distribution platform and 
restructure our business as needed to 
enhance our operations serving all of our 
market sectors in Canada. 
Finally, all of our businesses throughout 
North America are benefiting from a 
continuous improvement initiative which 
is focused on enhancing our operational 
capabilities. This includes a warehouse 
optimisation programme to ensure we have 
the most efficient infrastructure to support 
our customers as well as a routing system 
that maximises our truck fleet utilisation.
North America is Bunzl’s largest and  
longest-established business area, having 
started in 1981 with the acquisition of Jersey 
Paper Company in the US. The revenue of 
the business area that year was £20 million. 
Over the last 35 years the operations have 
grown substantially throughout the US 
while at the same time have expanded into 
Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico to become 
the market-leading business that it is today 
with revenue of £4.4 billion.
Market sectors Locations
168
Employees
5,478
23
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 Continental Europe once again developed 
strongly with revenue rising by 10% to 
£1,355.1 million and operating profit up 13% 
to £126.6 million. Organic revenue growth of 
2% improved on the level seen in 2015 with 
the results also boosted by the full year 
impact of the eight acquisitions made in 
2015 and the part year contribution of the 
five acquisitions completed in 2016. While 
gross margins reduced slightly, ongoing 
management of the cost base enabled the 
business area to maintain its underlying 
profitability and, with the benefit of higher 
margin acquisitions, the business area 
operating margin rose by 20 basis points at 
constant exchange rates to 9.3%. 
In France, sales at our cleaning & hygiene 
business returned to growth following 
investment in our e-commerce and 
telesales capabilities. Additional cost 
reductions offset margin pressures and 
operating profit again increased in the 
year. However, our personal protection 
equipment business recorded lower sales 
which could only partly be offset by lower 
costs. Ligne T, the specialist safety business 
acquired in May 2015, traded ahead of 
expectations and the acquisition of Prorisk 
and GM Equipement, which was completed 
at the end of January 2017, has further 
increased our scale in the French safety 
market and broadened our product range. 
Comatec, which was acquired in December 
2015 and specialises in the distribution of 
high-end, innovative, single-use tableware 
to the hotel, restaurant and catering 
(‘horeca’) sector, also traded well ahead of 
expectations with growth both in the local 
French and export markets. 
In Switzerland, sales declined as a 
contraction in the horeca sector, linked to 
lower levels of tourism due to the continued 
strength of the Swiss franc, was not fully 
offset by gains in the retail and industry 
sectors. Sales to the medical sector were 
broadly flat. Competition from lower cost 
neighbouring countries in the Eurozone also 
put further pressure on margins resulting 
in operating profit being below that of the 
previous year.
Meier Verpackungen, which we acquired in 
September 2015 as our first business in 
Austria, grew well with an increase in sales 
of food and meat packaging products more 
than offsetting lower fruit and vegetable 
packaging sales which were disrupted by a 
poor local harvest due to extreme weather 
conditions in the spring. 
In Denmark, revenue increased strongly, 
in particular due to higher sales to the 
horeca sector, food processors and 
redistributors as well as higher demand 
for personal protection equipment. Sales 
to customers serving the retail sector 
improved marginally while sales to 
customers in the public sector were flat 
following the loss of one major account. 
As a result of the overall revenue growth, 
the operating profit also increased. 
The acquisition of Saebe Compagniet 
was completed in early January 2017 
and has further strengthened our 
cleaning & hygiene operations.
In the Netherlands, sales grew modestly 
with mixed performances across the 
sectors that we serve. The results were 
particularly impacted by De Ridder which 
delivered a weaker performance in 2016, 
having benefitted in the prior year from 
unusually high sales of products to 
government agencies.
In Belgium, sales continued to increase in 
the cleaning & hygiene sector as a result of 
additional business with a number of larger 
customers although this growth was partly 
offset by lower sales in the grocery and food 
processor sectors. Gross margins were 
stable but operating profit was impacted 
by higher temporary costs linked to the 
implementation of a new ERP system in 
one of the hygiene businesses.
In Germany, sales again grew well with both 
national and regional accounts and gross 
margins improved. Some cost reductions 
and efficiency gains following the 2015 
implementation of a new ERP system also 
helped lead to a significant increase in 
operating profit. In May 2016 we acquired 
Inkozell and Mo Ha Ge, both active in the 
distribution of incontinence products to 
‘at home’ end users and care homes. The 
businesses are integrating well with our 
other German operations.
Continental Europe
Highlights
2016
£m
2015
◊
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 1,355.1 1,088.6 10%
Adjusted operating profit* 126.6 99.5 13%
Operating margin* 9.3% 9.1%
*  Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs  
(see Note 2w on page 102).
◊
   Restated to reflect the internal transfer of a business to North America  
(see Note 3 on page 104).
Significant increase in revenue and profit, principally 
driven by acquisitions with operating margin* up 20bp
Return to growth in cleaning & hygiene in France
Performance in the Netherlands mixed
Strong growth in Germany and expansion in healthcare 
through acquisition
Increased sales and profit in Denmark
Strong performance in Spain and central Europe with 
increased levels of profitability
24
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review In Spain, sales grew well in both the 
cleaning & hygiene and safety sectors due 
to a combination of customer wins and 
product range extension. The cleaning & 
hygiene business relocated to a new 
warehouse in Madrid to provide a platform 
for further growth and efficiency gains. 
Quirumed, the healthcare products 
business acquired in January 2015, saw 
lower sales but improved profitability due 
to cost reduction measures. Cemelim and 
Faru, both acquired in the last quarter of 
2015, have integrated well with Cemelim 
now fully merged into our cleaning & 
hygiene business. Overall profitability 
in Spain increased significantly.
In Israel, sales have grown rapidly in the 
horeca sector and also increased in the 
bakery sector despite disruption caused 
by a warehouse relocation following a fire. 
Margins improved in both areas and careful 
cost control led to a substantial rise in 
operating profit.
In central Europe, revenue rose strongly 
in all of our local businesses from new 
customer wins as well as increased levels 
of activity with existing customers and 
underlying profits rose accordingly. In 
August we completed the acquisition of 
Blyth, a specialist distributor of personal 
protection equipment based in the Czech 
Republic, and in September we bought 
Silwell, which is based in Hungary and 
sells disposable foodservice items to 
the horeca sector. Both businesses are 
integrating well with our existing 
operations in those countries.
In Turkey, sales at our personal protection 
equipment business, Istanbul Ticaret which 
was acquired at the end of May 2015, grew 
strongly despite the uncertain environment 
in the country following the failed coup 
attempt in July. The weaker Turkish lira 
has, however, put pressure on margins. 
At the end of March 2016 we acquired 
Bursa Pazari, a distributor of packaging 
and other foodservice supplies and 
disposable gloves, which has subsequently 
traded ahead of expectations. 
We continue to roll out our common 
e-commerce platform across the business 
area. After launching this at our first 
company in late 2015, a further five 
businesses went live on the system during 
2016. This will be further rolled out in 2017, 
helping to drive both sales growth and cost 
efficiencies going forward.
Bunzl acquired its first business in Continental 
Europe with the purchase of Hopa Disposables in the 
Netherlands in 1994. This was followed by acquisitions 
in Germany, Denmark and France in 1997, 2000 and 
2004 respectively. By 2010 the business had expanded 
through acquisition into a further eight countries and 
today operates in 14 countries across the continent.
Our broad portfolio 
of operations across 
a variety of market 
sectors and countries 
means we are 
a balanced and 
resilient business 
that has delivered 
consistently good 
results over time.
Paul Budge
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Market sectors
Locations
152
Employees
4,029
25
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 In UK & Ireland revenue decreased by 2% 
to £1,087.8 million and operating profit was 
also 2% lower at £83.7 million. The 
previously announced loss of an account in 
food retail at the beginning of 2016 
combined with subdued market conditions 
in the UK resulted in a weaker performance 
compared to 2015 with organic revenue 
declining by 3%. Although a significant 
amount of our products sold are essential 
everyday items, some uncertainty, which 
was seen in the run up to the EU 
referendum in June, continued across 
certain of our markets in the second half of 
2016, most notably in relation to investment 
in the hospitality and construction sectors. 
We completed four acquisitions during 
the year which, due to the timing of their 
completion, will have a greater impact on 
the results in 2017. 
Despite our safety business successfully 
winning new business with a number of 
major companies, it continues to operate 
in sluggish markets. This is particularly 
so in the construction sector where the 
lack of major government investment in 
infrastructure has delayed projects and in 
the oil & gas sector where production has 
been curtailed, in both cases resulting in 
reduced demand for protective clothing and 
equipment. The business undertook a 
restructuring at the end of 2015 to reduce 
its cost base further and has continued to 
develop its own label product offering 
which has resulted in increased levels of 
profitability. We have also continued to 
invest in both people and technology to help 
drive operational efficiencies. Our cleaning 
& hygiene business has continued to 
perform well in a competitive marketplace 
and has similarly invested in additional 
technology, most notably in vehicle 
telematics and e-commerce enhancements, 
to improve our efficiency and enhance our 
levels of customer service.
The food retail business has been 
successfully restructured following the 
account loss at the start of 2016 and has 
recently won new business with a clearly 
defined value proposition supported by an 
improved suite of customer centric 
technology. The acquisition of Classic Bag 
in May complements our existing non-food 
retail business which has performed well 
during the year, growing with both existing 
and new customers, completing a re-brand 
and delivering innovative new packaging 
solutions to the high street retail sector. Our 
recent acquisition of Woodway in December 
has further strengthened our offering in 
high quality packaging products. It provides 
bespoke value-added services through a 
specialist technical services team that gives 
customers a complete solution for their 
distribution packaging needs, particularly 
relating to their e-commerce activities. 
Finally, our marketing services business 
has continued to develop its online 
marketing tools for customers alongside 
the fulfilment of point-of-sale products and 
has created capacity for further growth by 
opening an additional distribution centre. 
By outsourcing 
the purchasing, 
consolidation 
and distribution of 
everyday essential 
items, our customers 
are able to focus on 
their core businesses, 
saving them time 
and money.
Andrew Tedbury
Managing Director 
UK & Ireland
UK & Ireland
Highlights
2016
£m
2015
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 1,087.8 1,102.4 (2)%
Adjusted operating profit* 83.7 84.9 (2)%
Operating margin* 7.7% 7.7%
*  Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs  
(see Note 2w on page 102).
Margin maintained despite lower revenue
Improved profitability in safety in sluggish markets 
and good performance in cleaning & hygiene
Food retail restructured following previously announced 
account loss; non-food retail performing well
Hospitality impacted by lower investment by customers 
but should improve with recent contract win
Solid growth in healthcare
Excellent performance in Ireland across all sectors
26
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review The catering and hospitality sector has 
continued to be both competitive and 
challenging with many customers cutting 
back on future investments, particularly 
in kitchen design and heavy catering 
equipment. However, our proposition 
remains strong and we have managed to 
win a long term contract with a major 
contract caterer across a range of non-food 
areas, adding expertise and value to the 
customer offering. We have invested heavily 
in digital technology with both new web and 
app developments giving our customers 
sophisticated tools to help them run their 
businesses better. We continue to grow our 
exclusive brand product offering, creating 
new ranges that offer both quality and value 
and the addition of Tri-Star Packaging in 
September has further expanded our reach 
with ‘food-to-go’ retailers, contract 
caterers and food processors.
Although the UK healthcare market 
continues to be under pressure from 
ongoing government imposed spending 
constraints, our healthcare business has 
continued to grow in both the public and 
private acute sectors. Our business that is 
focused on own brand products has been 
challenged by both rapid commoditisation 
and the significant weakening of sterling in 
the wake of the EU referendum vote but has 
continued to develop new value-adding 
products and has also increased sales 
overseas. The care home supplies business 
continues to grow against a backdrop of an 
ageing UK population needing more care. 
Our business in Ireland experienced 
excellent growth throughout the year and 
profitability improved as we continued to 
put a greater focus on margin improving 
initiatives. All sectors benefited, from 
catering, hospitality and retail through to 
cleaning & hygiene and safety. We are 
investing in a new purpose built warehouse 
in Northern Ireland to support future 
growth. Finally, the acquisition in 
September of Kingsbury Packaging has 
further expanded our product offering and 
extended our customer base in the 
foodservice and food retail sectors.
It is difficult to give a firm view as to the 
probable impact of the 2016 referendum 
result in the UK as the terms of leaving 
the European Union are not yet known. 
However, with more than 85% of our 
business based outside the UK, we do not 
currently expect the impact on the Group’s 
overall operations to be significant.
 The acquisition of Automatic Catering Supplies in 1993 
marked the beginning of the Group’s expansion into 
Europe. Bunzl subsequently entered the cleaning & 
hygiene sector in 1996, the retail and grocery sectors 
in 1999 and the healthcare and safety sectors in 
2000. Since then the UK & Ireland business area has 
continued to develop significantly with annual revenue 
now in excess of £1 billion.
Market sectors
Locations
99
Employees
3,641
27
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 In Rest of the World revenue increased 11% 
to £624.1 million and operating profit was up 
4%. With no organic revenue growth, the 
results benefitted from the impact of 
acquisitions made in 2015, particularly in 
Latin America. Margins remained under 
pressure due to the challenging 
macroeconomic conditions and the impact 
of currency movements which affected 
those businesses that import large volumes 
of products. As a result, the business area 
operating margin reduced by 50 basis points 
at constant exchange rates to 7.5%.
In Brazil, the economic and political 
volatility has continued although the market 
has begun to show some signs of greater 
stability following the challenges faced 
during the Presidential impeachment 
process. Despite some of the sectors we 
serve experiencing ongoing market 
weakness, our diversified business portfolio 
enabled us to grow our underlying revenue 
and maintain operating profit. In our safety 
business, due to the continued impact of our 
customers postponing investments and 
higher levels of unemployment, sales and 
margins grew only slightly. Operating 
margins were impacted by the cost of 
restructuring measures undertaken during 
the year to reposition the business for the 
anticipated upturn. The challenging market 
conditions also affected Casa do EPI, 
acquired in November 2015, which 
performed below our expectations due to 
soft demand in Minas Gerais, particularly in 
the mining sector. Further steps were taken 
to integrate fully Casa do EPI with our 
Prot Cap business which is expected to 
generate future synergies and strengthen 
our end user personal protection 
equipment offering. 
The cleaning & hygiene sector in Brazil 
continued to be adversely affected by the 
difficult market conditions. Large account 
losses by several key contract cleaning 
customers reduced sales volumes while 
intense competition also impacted margins. 
To combat these declines, operating costs 
were reduced and we moved our São Paulo 
headquarters to a more efficient and lower 
cost location. A new online B2B platform 
was also developed and launched, 
the results of which have so far been 
very encouraging. 
In contrast, our healthcare businesses in 
Brazil saw strong sales growth, particularly 
with imported products. The highly 
successful integration of Labor and 
Lamedid, which consolidated three 
warehouses into one, led to cost synergies 
with minimal business interruption and 
operating profits grew significantly. Dental 
Sorria, acquired in December 2015, has 
settled in well and towards the end of the 
year moved into new premises which will 
improve service levels and support further 
growth. We continue to see the growing 
healthcare sector in Brazil as one of the 
most attractive markets in which to invest.
In the rest of Latin America, the picture is 
more positive with our overall business 
trading in line with our expectations. In 
Chile, Vicsa grew sales and significantly 
improved its gross margins through product 
We source products 
from all over the 
world, liaising closely 
with our suppliers so 
that we are able to 
offer a full range of 
items which satisfy 
our customers’ 
demands.
Jonathan Taylor
Managing Director 
Latin America
Sharing best practice 
in the way we do 
business increases 
our efficiency, from 
achieving purchasing 
synergies to operating 
our warehouses 
in the most cost- 
effective way.
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director 
Australasia
Rest of the World
Highlights
2016
£m
2015
£m
Growth at
constant
exchange
Revenue 624.1 514.5 11%
Adjusted operating profit* 46.6 42.1 4%
Operating margin* 7.5% 8.2%
*  Before customer relationships amortisation and acquisition related costs  
(see Note 2w on page 102).
Margins remained under pressure due to  
macroeconomic conditions and currency weakness
Significant benefit from 2015 acquisitions,  
particularly in Latin America
Latin America
• Underlying profit maintained in Brazil as market 
conditions show signs of stability
• Elsewhere overall business trading in line with 
our expectations
Australasia
• Market conditions remain challenging
28
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review  The current operations of the Group in 
Rest of the World started in 1983 with the 
acquisition of United Suppliers based in 
Sydney, followed by the purchase of a number 
of other businesses throughout Australia 
and New Zealand over the next 30 years. 
The Group’s first move into Latin America 
was in 2008 with the acquisition of Prot Cap 
in São Paulo since when the business has 
expanded both within Brazil and into five 
other countries in the region.
Market sectors Locations
99
Employees
3,082
mix management. Tecno Boga, on the other 
hand, suffered from lower demand for its 
premium footwear products in the mining 
industry which impacted both sales and 
margins. New product lines were launched 
to reverse this trend and operating costs 
were reduced. DPS, our catering 
disposables business, traded in line with 
expectations but achieved higher operating 
margins due to strong purchasing initiatives.
In Colombia, our business grew sales 
well. Solmaq, acquired in June 2015, 
performed in line with our expectations 
and relocated its offices and warehouse 
to more suitable locations.
In Mexico, our safety business grew sales 
and operating profit through successful 
margin management initiatives combined 
with good cost control. The outcome of the 
US Presidential election resulted in a sharp 
devaluation in the Mexican peso towards the 
end of the year but the business was able to 
mitigate much of this impact with selling 
price adjustments. However, in the short 
term we expect more volatility and 
uncertainty in the Mexican market but our 
business is well prepared to react to these 
changing conditions. 
In Australasia, the market conditions also 
remained challenging throughout the year. 
There were, however, some positive signs in 
the resources sector towards the end of the 
year with commodity prices improving. 
While our business in Australasia has a 
significant exposure to this sector, our 
business strategy continues to focus on 
developing a sustainable position in more 
resilient market sectors to enable our 
operations to remain strong throughout all 
economic cycles. 
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, 
has been impacted by the market downturn 
and currency related margin pressure. 
However, the business is focused on the 
more resilient healthcare, cleaning, 
catering and retail sectors and is well 
placed to take advantage of changes to 
government funding for community 
healthcare. We are also continuing to work 
with new and existing customers to develop 
supply solutions. Part of this will come from 
the work we have underway with our new 
digital trading platform to create an efficient 
and easy to access online mobile customer 
portal. In addition, we migrated two of our 
recently acquired businesses onto the main 
ERP system and also consolidated the 
Newcastle warehouse operation into the 
larger and more efficient Enfield operation 
in Sydney. We will shortly relocate the 
Melbourne head office and distribution 
centre into a larger and more efficient 
facility in Dandenong and will also 
consolidate our two healthcare businesses 
in Victoria. 
Our food processor business also faced a 
number of challenges throughout 2016. This 
was due mainly to a shortage of livestock as 
a result of severe drought conditions in 
some regions causing plant closures and 
reduced operating schedules which 
impacted our results in these areas. This 
sector should recover as the herds are 
replenished. The ongoing business strategy 
has been to continue to diversify our 
presence across the wider food processor 
sector and, as such, we continue to make 
good progress with these endeavours. The 
business has had a number of major 
customer wins across Australia and New 
Zealand and we should see the benefit of 
this diversification through the coming year. 
Our industrial and safety supplies business 
has again been the most impacted by the 
resources market downturn in Australia, 
particularly in the regions that support this 
sector. We have been working hard to widen 
our operations into sectors outside mining 
and have made solid progress developing 
new business opportunities in the 
construction, energy and government 
sectors. We have also continued to reduce 
costs by consolidating facilities and 
reorganising the business to fit the current 
market environment. By doing so we have 
been able to maintain our market presence 
by retaining our regional footprint to ensure 
that we are able to capitalise quickly as the 
market starts to improve. An upgrade of our 
ERP system in the industrial and safety 
businesses has been successfully 
completed. This forms part of our ongoing 
technology investment and will enable us 
to streamline our operational platform 
and processes to help drive productivity 
and enhance our competitive position. 
We will continue to evaluate opportunities 
across our national footprint and, where 
applicable, consolidate facilities and 
realign the business to the prevailing 
market conditions.
29
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016 providing  
opportunities
...developing
skills
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
30
Strategic report | Chief Executive’s review Providing development  
and training opportunities
We endeavour to ensure that everyone takes 
personal responsibility for themselves to 
grow within their roles. Where appropriate 
to do so, we foster internal appointments 
and promotions and support personal 
development through formal training 
programmes, as well as help to provide 
learning on the job.
Encouraging feedback  
and communication
A combination of regular employee 
engagement surveys, company social media 
sites and intranet and video technologies 
allows us to receive feedback from our 
workforce and to collaborate effectively 
across the world.
Valuing our people
Our decentralised organisation structure 
provides the framework for how we do 
business. Local autonomy, within a clearly 
defined Group strategy, underpins everything 
we do such that, despite our size, we retain the 
culture of a dynamic, local business for both 
our employees and customers with our teams 
incentivised to provide a high quality service 
and produce sustainable returns.
The acquisition of businesses is a key 
part of our strategy to grow and develop 
and we are proud of our track record of 
retaining former owners and other key 
staff of the companies we acquire. We 
value highly their local knowledge and 
expertise which is essential to ensure 
that the successful ongoing customer 
relationships are maintained.
One of the main 
objectives of selling 
our family business 
to Bunzl was to give 
us access to their 
extensive knowledge, 
experience and 
resources in order to 
grow and develop our 
operations further .
Ecem Aykol
Continental Europe
31
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2016
