 04
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2005
Chief executive’s report
Tim Ingram
Chief executive
We have continued to
make new investments
and to disinvest where
appropriate in an
environment in which
attractive opportunities
remain available to the
longer term investor.
This is the second year that we are reporting our results as an
investment trust. Last year we reported that for 2003 we had
been named the ‘Brightest Newcomer’ by the Investment Trusts
magazine and, this time, we can report that for 2004 your company
won an award as ‘Best Global Growth Trust’.
Performance
The year ended 31 March 2005 has again seen strong growth in
the value of our investment portfolio. Net asset value (‘NAV’) per
share, before accrued ﬁnal dividends, has grown from 1282p at
the beginning of the year to 1554p at 31 March 2005 – a growth 
of 21%. As the FTSE All-Share index has grown by nearly 12%
during this period, this represents a 9% outperformance. The table
below analyses this outperformance into its component parts.
One year performance attribution
Return
%
Market (FTSE All-Share index) 11.9
Stock selection 7.6
Sector allocation 0.5
NAV per share enhancement (elective special dividend) 2.3
Management and other expenses (1.1)
Caledonia’s NAV per share 21.2
Of particular note, given our style to back strong management
teams, is that over 7% of the outperformance can be attributed
to our having, in aggregate, invested in companies which have
themselves outperformed within their sectors. Also of note is 
the NAV per share enhancement of 2.3%, which resulted from 
the elective special dividend and reduction of capital that was
completed last July. This exercise, which is mentioned more fully
in the chairman’s statement, both resolved in full a potentially
unstable situation within our largest shareholder , The Cayzer T rust
Company , and directly created additional value for our remaining
shareholders through the NAV per share enhancement.
Notwithstanding our good shorter term performance, our
approach continues to be long term and we believe that a more
pertinent measure for our shareholders is our total shareholder
return (‘TSR’), measured over ﬁve and ten year periods. The table
below shows this performance.
Five and ten year relative TSR performance
Caledonia FTSE All-Share
T o 31 March 2005 TSR T otal Return Outperformance
%%%
5 years 124.5 (8.2) 132.7
10 years 229.7 118.4 111.3 05
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2005
We have signiﬁcantly outperformed our benchmark and this
performance again puts us in the top quartile when measured
against the Global Growth sector for all investment trusts over
these periods. The above table also shows that, as for last year,
we have been producing positive returns over the last ﬁve and
ten year periods, the former when our benchmark has been in
negative territory. This we will continue to strive to do. In order
to enhance our ability to produce positive returns in times when
equity markets are ﬂat or falling, as well as being prepared to
hold cash, we also invest in other classes of assets such as
unquoted investments (22% of the portfolio at 31 March 2005),
property (13%) and hedge funds (3%). In all these cases, our
business policy is the same: to back, with long term capital,
carefully selected management teams.
Investment activity
Our investment style remains consistent. We only invest when
we are conﬁdent that we are backing management teams that
should be able to create good medium and long term value for
their shareholders. We look to take signiﬁcant shareholdings in
such situations, usually with a Caledonia executive taking a
position on the board of the investee company, and where we
are aiming to be a long term supportive and involved investor.
This is a distinctive but unusual style, particularly in relation to
quoted companies, and one that brings us a strong ﬂow of
investment opportunities. Considerable time is spent analysing
these opportunities and we are very discerning in our ﬁnal
selection, especially in relation to the quality of the management.
The entry price is obviously a further major consideration, as we
need to be conﬁdent that there is room for good value creation
over the medium term.
During the course of our ﬁnancial year, our investment committee
evaluated around 150 potential new investment opportunities.
These were short-listed down to a more manageable number,
which were then intensely evaluated and from which we made
seven new investments for a total amount of £60m. In addition,
we invested a further £64m as follow-on funding in existing
investments. This is a similar level to the previous year when a
total of £108m was invested in new and follow-on investments.
Both new and follow-on investments for the year ended 
31 March 2005 are shown in the table below.
A second distinctive characteristic of our investment style is our
hands-on approach after we have made the investment. As stated
above, it is our normal policy for a Caledonia investment executive
to join the board of the investee company as a non-executive
director, and considerable time is spent in working supportively
with management to achieve long term shareholder value
creation. A large portion of the investment executive’s time is
spent in this way, and we believe that such an approach is a
signiﬁcant contributor to our performance. During the year, we
have had a Caledonia executive as a director on the boards of 
24 of our top 30 investments. Whether we have representation 
on the board or not, efforts are made to inﬂuence constructively
the operations and strategies of each investee company.
New and follow-on investments
Resultant
Investment Cost holding Category Country Business
£m %
New investments
Cobepa 22.8 9.4Unquoted Belgium Investment company
Incisive Media 10.6 8.8 Quoted UK Business publisher                                                                   
Omniport 6.0 39.2 Unquoted UK Regional airport owner
Indian securities 7.4 Quoted India Portfolio of quoted Indian securities
Berkshire Capital 5.1 30.0 Unquoted USA Investment banking advisor
T errace Hill 4.1 7.5 Quoted UK Commercial property developer
Seven Publishing 3.5 21.7 Unquoted UK Magazine publisher
59.5
Follow-on investments
General Practice 16.9 30.0 Unquoted UK Health care property developer and owner
Oval 12.5 27.4 Unquoted UK Insurance broking consolidator
Polar Capital funds 9.3 24.6
1
Hedge funds Cayman Paragon and Asia ex-Japan hedge funds
Tribal Group 9.2 7.4 Quoted UK Support services for the UK public sector
Melrose Resources 0.9 6.7 Quoted UK Oil and gas exploration and production
Other 15.5 Includes private equity fund draw downs
64.3
123.8
1. Holding in the management company was unchanged. 06
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2005
Chief executive’s report
continued
Although we are a long term investor, we believe that there comes
a time when it is appropriate for us to disinvest, or partially sell
down, from an investment. In addition, there may be redemptions
within funds in which we have invested which give rise to capital
ﬂows back to Caledonia. During the year, we realised some £218m
through such events as listed in the table below.
Full and partial disinvestments
£m
Kerzner International 62.0
Close Brothers 57.1
Aberforth LP fund 23.8
Radio Investments 13.7
Polar Capital and funds 12.4
Distributions from private equity funds 8.1
Redleaf II 7.0
Paladin Resources 6.5
Hill & Smith Holdings 5.2
Active Capital Trust 5.1
Offshore Logistics/Bristow – capital reorganisation 3.7
Amerindo Internet Fund 3.0
Other 10.1
217.7
As a general rule, we disinvest when we believe that, going
forward, the funds released can achieve a higher return for our
shareholders through being employed elsewhere, or when
concentration of risk considerations mean it is prudent to reduce
our holding. However, when disinvesting, particular care is taken
to ensure that we do not damage our valuable reputation as a
long term supportive investor.
Treasury
We started the year with net liquid funds of £34m. Although some
borrowings were incurred during the year to ﬁnance the elective
special dividend which was paid in July, by the end of the year, as
a result of our net disinvestment activity, we again had net liquid
funds of around £40m and, thus, no external borrowings, reﬂecting
our conservative approach in the present market conditions.
At our extraordinary general meeting in June last year, we sought
and obtained authority to buy our own shares on the open market,
which we can now hold in treasury, when we believe this is
beneﬁcial to our shareholders. During the year, we bought into
treasury 100,000 of our shares at a price of 1015p per share. 
We will be seeking approval at our forthcoming annual general
meeting to extend this authority for a further year, as we believe
there may be further opportunities for us to enhance shareholder
value in this way.
We have taken a cautious approach to our structural US dollar
currency exposures, which arise because some of our investments
are denominated in US dollars. During the year, we increased the
extent of our dollar hedging so that by the end of the ﬁnancial
year these structural dollar exposures were fully hedged.
Costs
Keeping overhead costs down is an important objective for 
us. Every pound of overhead cost is a pound reduction in our
shareholders’ net assets. We believe that being a self-managed
investment trust with direct control over costs signiﬁcantly helps
this objective. Our overhead costs for the year were about 1% 
of our net assets, which compares favourably against a pre-tax
weighted industry average of 1.5% – particularly in view of the
time-consuming hands-on approach that we take with our
investment portfolio.
Shareholders
We believe that putting our efforts into growing NAV per share 
is the best way to achieve our financial objectives for our
shareholders. However , we are aware of the continuing desire of
shareholders also to see a narrowing in the discount of our share
price when compared with NAV per share. We reported last year
on initiatives we were taking to create an environment which
would encourage a narrowing of this discount. These initiatives
are bearing fruit in that our discount, which was around 21% at
31 March 2004, had narrowed to around 12% at 31 March 2005. 
It is our belief that our shareholder objectives are in line with the
aspirations of many retail investors, and we are continuing to
increase the awareness of Caledonia as an investment trust
amongst potential retail shareholders. As part of this initiative, 
we arranged from 1 November 2004 for our shares to be listed 
on the stock exchange in New Zealand, where UK incorporated
investment trusts currently offer a more tax efﬁcient means of
investment for New Zealand resident individuals when compared
with other collective investment vehicles. As a result of this and
other initiatives, we estimate that, during the course of the year,
the percentage of retail shareholders has increased by around
7% to about 23% at 31 March 2005.
Recent activity
The only signiﬁcant changes to our portfolio in the six weeks
since our year end have been the sale of all of our shares in 
F&C Asset Management for £20m and the purchase for £18m 
of a 22% stake in Satellite Information Services, an unquoted
company specialising in the distribution of betting related media.
The future
Since our ﬁnancial year end, stock markets have experienced
some turbulence, justifying our stance to be cautious and
ungeared. We are confident that the resilience of our long 
term approach should continue to prove to be of value in these
times. We are continuing to see a strong ﬂow of good business
opportunities, and our approach to these remains cautious 
but consistent. Over the last eighteen months, we have spent
signiﬁcant amounts of time looking at the higher growth markets
in Asia and the Far East, and during the last few months have
initiated a small portfolio of quoted Indian shares – these were
valued at £8.4m at 31 March 2005, which represents a 13.5%
gain on cost. We believe that the fast growing Indian economy
offers good opportunities for our long term approach and,
although we would not expect this area to become a particularly
significant part of our portfolio in the short to medium term, 
we are hoping to increase our investment activity in that country.
We are also looking at opportunities in China, but with added
caution in view of the linguistic, legal and cultural challenges 
for a ﬁnancial investor in that area. We are, of course, also
continuing to look at opportunities in our traditional markets. 
By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are
strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement
in investee companies and through disinvesting when appropriate,
we seek to maintain our distinctive performance.
Tim Ingram
Chief executive
