 04
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2004
Chief executive’s report
Tim Ingram
Chief executive
This is the first year we are reporting our results as an investment
trust, as we believe we have been meeting all the requirements 
for this status as from 1 April 2003. However, as for all investment
trusts, this can only be confirmed by the Inland Revenue at 
a time after the end of each financial year. In the context of our
new status, it is pleasing to note that we have been awarded the
‘Brightest Newcomer’ by the Investment Trusts magazine.
Performance
The year ended 31 March 2004 has seen strong growth in the
value of our investment portfolio. Net assets per share have grown
from 915p at the beginning of the year to 1278p at 31 March 2004 –
a 40% growth. As the FTSE All-Share index has grown by 27%
over the same period, this represents outperformance in net
assets for the year of around 13%. Part of this outperformance
can be attributed to the extent to which our investments have
been in sectors which have grown at rates faster than the market
as a whole, and nearly 8% of our outperformance can be
attributed to us having, in aggregate, invested in companies that
have themselves outperformed within their sectors. Table 1 
shows an attribution summary of our performance over the year.
Table 1 – one year performance attribution
Return
%
Market (FTSE All-Share index) 26.6
Stock selection 7.9
Sector allocation 7.0
Management and other expenses (1.8)
Caledonia’s NAV per share 39.7
Notwithstanding our good one year performance, we continue to
believe that, given our long term approach, our total shareholder
return (‘TSR’) measured over five and ten year periods, gives a
better measure of how we are performing for our shareholders. 
In this respect, as table 2 shows, for our TSR over five years we
have again produced good absolute returns when the market 
as a whole has been negative, while we have also comfortably
outperformed the market over ten years. 
Table 2 – 5 and 10 year relative TSR performance
Caledonia FTSE All-Share 
TSR TSR Outperformance
T o 31 March 2004 % % %
5 years 77.2 (12.7) 89.9
10 years 138.5 94.3 44.2
This again easily puts us in the top quartile for TSR performance
when measured against the Association of Investment Trust
Companies global growth sector. Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2004 05
Investment activity
We believe that we have, in particular , two distinctive characteristics
inherent in our investment style that help produce this performance.
The first is the strong deal flow of investment opportunities that
are specifically presented to us as a result of our valuable
reputation as a long term supportive and constructively active
investor. In this respect, during the course of last year, our
investment committee evaluated over 170 potential and serious
new investment opportunities. We shortlist such opportunities
down to a more manageable number that are then intensively
evaluated. Considerable time is spent making sure that such
investment opportunities are suitable for our approach, and
indeed that the entry price offers good value. The most intensive
part of our appraisal is the assessment of the calibre and
capabilities of the management team. Out of all these opportunities
during the year, we invested in just seven new investments for 
a total amount of around £64m. In addition, we invested a further
£44m as follow-on funding in existing investments. Both new 
and follow-on investments are shown in table 3.
The second significant distinctive characteristic in our investment
style is our hands-on constructive involvement with each investee
company, whether they are quoted or unquoted. This, we believe,
provides more value creation than a passive investment style 
and has therefore significantly contributed to our outperformance.
In most of our major investments we have representation on the
board – as evidenced by the fact that we have a Caledonia executive
as a director on the boards of 16 of our top 20 investments.
Throughout the year, we have used these positions to influence
constructively the operations and strategies of each investee
company and in all cases maintain a close contact with the
management of all of our major investee companies.
Table 3 – New and follow-on investments
Total
Amount holding
Investment £m % Category Business
New investments
Eddington Capital 15.8 50.0
1
Unquoted Fund of hedge funds management company, plus investment in fund
Marketform 15.1 26.8 Unquoted Managing agent and insurance company
SVB Holdings 14.0 5.3 Quoted Insurance company
Melrose Resources 6.0 6.7 Quoted Oil and gas company
MORI 5.8 16.0 Unquoted Opinion poll and market research company
Oval 4.5 34.0 Unquoted Commercial lines insurance broker
Tribal Group 2.3 1.6 Quoted Support services company
63.5
Follow-on investments
Polar Capital funds 14.4 24.6
2
Unquoted Investment in various new funds launched by Polar Capital
Easybox 9.0 99.2 Unquoted Self storage business in Spain and Italy
Paladin Resources 4.1 11.1 Quoted Oil and gas company
Savills 3.3 3.8 Quoted Estate agency business
Other 13.5 Includes drawdowns by various private equity funds
44.3
107.8
1. Holding in the management company.
2. Holding in the management company was unchanged.
Although we are long term investors, we are not ‘forever’ investors
and believe that there comes a time when it is appropriate for 
us to divest. During the year, we realised nearly £105m from such
divestments, which are listed in table 4.
Table 4 – Divestments
£m
ICAP 26.4
Meinl European Land 14.1
Offshore Logistics/Bristow
1
12.9
Polar Capital funds 11.9
Ionian fund 9.1
Bateman Chapman 6.0
Compco 3.7
Quintain Estates & Development 2.3
Other 18.3
104.7
1. Redemption of loan note on maturity plus receipt from capital reduction.
Naturally we seek to maximise returns when we realise an
investment. However , care is taken to ensure that we do not damage
our valuable reputation as a long term supportive investor. Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2004 06
Chief executive’s report
continued
Liquidity
The chairman’s statement has explained the background to, and
brief details of, the recent proposal to pay an elective special
dividend. More details of this are contained in our shareholder
circular dated 19 May 2004. As the circular explains, based 
on valuations at 30 April 2004, the maximum estimated cash
requirement for this proposal would be £158m. In this context, 
as at the same date, Caledonia had committed term bank
facilities of £200m. This means that, notwithstanding the
potential cash requirements of the proposal, we are well placed
to take advantage of new investment opportunities.
Shareholders
In line with my comments last year, we have been continuing 
to make company presentations to private client fund managers
and brokers in order to broaden the market for our shares. 
As a result, the percentage of our shares held by retail investors
has increased.
Over the long term, our ability to increase the net asset value per
share should provide the main component of shareholder returns.
Nonetheless, we are fully aware of the desire of our shareholders
also to see a narrowing of the discount of our share price
compared with net assets per share. It is therefore pleasing to
note that, whereas this discount was 30% at 31 March 2003, 
by 31 March 2004 the discount had narrowed to 20% and has
further narrowed since then. We plan to continue our efforts to
expand our appeal to retail investors during the current year.
Recent activity
Since the year end, we have invested about £50m. Table 5 lists
our most significant recent investments.
Our most significant divestment has been the sale of our stake 
in Radio Investments, which should realise £14m.
The future
We are continuing to see a strong flow of good business
opportunities where our long term active approach is valued and
can create outperformance. However, as in the past, we will be
highly selective in choosing in which companies to invest and will
be careful not to overpay.
By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are
strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement
in investee companies and through divesting when appropriate,
we seek to maintain our distinctive performance. 
Tim Ingram 
Chief executive
Table 5 – Significant investments since the year end
Total
Amount holding
Investment £m % Category Business
Cobepa 20.0 10.0 Unquoted Belgium-based investment company
Oval 10.5 34.0 Unquoted Commercial lines insurance broker (follow-on investment)
Incisive Media 8.3 6.8 Quoted Business publishing
Tribal Group 5.0 5.0 Quoted Support services for the UK public sector (follow-on investment)
