 CEO’s statement
Clive Dix, Chief Executive Officer
” We have a complete range 
of tools to discover novel 
compounds and pioneer 
new disruptive approaches 
to drug discovery.”
Strategic report We see ourselves as the “architects” of 
drug discovery , constantly innovating and 
finding novel ways to solve the challenges 
in biology and chemistry that confound 
others. T o enable this, we need to focus 
our efforts in areas where we can lead major 
shifts in traditional discovery approaches. 
It has been an exciting year for C4XD as 
we have taken the opportunity to identify 
these areas and build our Discovery Engine.
Strengthening our leadership
Our vision requires strong leadership. 
We have strengthened our Board 
with the appointment of Craig Fox, 
Chief Scientific Officer, and Brad Hoy, 
Chief Financial Officer. Both Craig and 
Brad bring a wealth of knowledge and 
experience to the Company and will make 
significant contributions to executing our 
strategic plans. In addition, Brad Hoy has 
been appointed permanent CFO following 
a period as interim CFO.
Enhancing our discovery platform
Our flagship Conformetrix technology, 
which we believe to be the only platform 
in the world able to see the “4D” shape 
of molecules in solution, is highly disruptive 
and enables our medicinal chemists to 
design candidates faster than the industry 
standard. We have proven our ability to 
do this for known therapeutic targets by 
producing a highly potent and selective 
Orexin-1 antagonist for addictive disorders 
that is now in pre-clinical development.
However, to become a truly productive 
Discovery Engine, we recognise the need 
to enhance our capabilities to identify our 
own novel therapeutic targets to which 
Conformetrix can be applied. T o address 
this, in March 2016 we acquired Adorial 
Limited and its subsidiaries (“Adorial”) 
and its proprietary genetic platform 
T axonomy3
®
. T axonomy3
®
 is a highly 
sensitive mathematical tool that is able to 
identify previously unknown linkages and 
interactions between genes and biological 
pathways in a broad range of diseases.
This enables the discovery of targets 
that cause disease, rather than those that 
are simply associated with its symptoms. 
This platform increases our chances of 
discovery success and reduces risk of clinical 
failures. The two founders of Adorial joined 
C4XD and have already led the identification 
of exciting novel targets in rheumatoid 
arthritis and a potential personalised medicine 
approach in Parkinson’ s disease. They are 
now working closely with our chemists as 
well as interrogating further genetic datasets.
T o differentiate us further and accelerate 
our ability to design best-in-class pre-clinical 
candidates, we also acquired a suite of 
advanced software tools from MolPlex Ltd. 
These tools enable rapid identification of 
new hit compounds against targets in silico 
using a vast library of virtual molecules, 
visualisation of interactions between drug 
and target, and prediction of “drug-like” 
qualities of lead molecules.
T aken together, we believe our suite of 
complementary proprietary technologies 
provides our scientists with a complete 
range of tools to discover novel compounds 
and pioneer new disruptive approaches 
to drug discovery.
Building our discovery portfolio
Since our IPO in 2014, we have grown 
our portfolio from three programmes (in 
addiction, diabetes and chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disorder) to eight programmes 
across a number of therapeutic areas. 
We will continue to invest in C4XD’ s 
core discovery activities to support our 
ambition of producing at least four pre-clinical 
candidates each year at steady state. T o focus 
our efforts, we will prioritise new programmes 
in the areas of inflammation and 
neurodegeneration as these diseases have 
strong genetic associations and are likely 
to drive strong commercial interest from 
prospective partners. We will continue to 
maximise value from opportunistic areas, 
for example, immuno-oncology. Additional 
disease areas are under continual assessment 
at C4XD, with robust scientific analysis and 
commercial intelligence used to identify 
the best next therapeutic areas for 
inclusion in our portfolio.
Forming strategic alliances
T o deliver our vision, we understand 
that we must focus our efforts on the 
areas where we have strengths – novel 
target identification and drug design. 
As such, we will no longer provide any 
fee-for-service capabilities. Instead, we 
have secured, and will continue to seek, 
longer-term risk-sharing strategic alliances 
that enable us to achieve our goal of 
becoming the world’ s most productive 
Drug Discovery Engine.
In October 2015, we signed an agreement 
with the University of Oxford’ s Structural 
Genomics Consortium (“SGC Oxford”). 
This collaboration gives us access to structural, 
biological and therapeutic information held 
by SGC Oxford on both targets and “hit” 
molecules. Our expertise in drug design will be 
used to improve existing SGC Oxford “hit” 
molecules, which will remain its exclusive 
property , whilst new compounds identified by 
C4XD will belong to us. This alliance provides 
us with a powerful new basis to expand our 
portfolio into new therapeutic areas.
Following the end of the financial 
year, we entered a new multi-target, 
risk-sharing strategic collaboration with 
Evotec AG (“Evotec”), a leading drug 
discovery and development alliance company .
” We see ourselves as the ‘architects’ 
of drug discovery.”
Strategic report
09
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016
www.c4xdiscovery.com Forming strategic alliances continued
This agreement builds on our existing 
scientific collaboration announced in 
January 2015 and will enable us to increase 
the output of our Discovery Engine with 
reduced risk and, potentially, lower cost. 
C4XD will work with Evotec on three projects 
where Evotec will apply its extensive assay 
and screening technologies, laboratory 
scientists and medicinal chemists in return 
for funding to partially cover operating 
costs, milestones and potential future 
royalties. We share common development 
and commercial goals with Evotec and we 
could not have found a better partner for 
this type of deal in terms of financial 
strength and capacity.
Successful £5 million fundraise
In September 2016, we successfully closed 
a £5 million fundraise at 102 pence per 
share. This brought in several new strategic 
investors, including Calculus Capital Limited 
and Polar Capital LLP , who have strong 
track records in investing in the life sciences 
sector . This new cash enables us to progress 
our pre-clinical pipeline and initiate new 
discovery programmes derived by 
Taxonomy3
®
, and provides working 
capital for operations.
Outlook
C4XD’ s strategy is to achieve our ambitions 
in drug discovery and corporate development, 
thereby delivering value for our shareholders. 
The coming year will focus on securing 
deal revenue from our existing portfolio, 
progressing our discovery candidates to 
pre-clinical development, identifying novel 
and exciting drug targets and selectively 
building our operations to support our vision. 
I am excited about what we can achieve and 
I look forward to sharing this journey with you.
Clive Dix
Chief Executive Officer
6 January 2017
Discovery portfolio review
Neuroscience – Addiction 
and Parkinson’s disease
Oral Orexin-1 Antagonist Programme
The treatment of addiction represents a 
substantial area of unmet medical need, 
forecast to be worth an estimated $13 billion 
per annum by 2018
1
. C4XD’ s lead programme 
targeting Orexin-1 could represent a major 
new method of treating addiction by targeting 
the “craving” process itself. Through the 
Company’ s Conformetrix platform, C4XD has 
identified novel, patentable oral antagonists 
of Orexin-1 providing the Company with 
a pre-clinical candidate and a second 
differentiated follow-up molecule. 
Furthermore, to enable visualisation of the 
activity of this drug in the brain in the planned 
Phase I clinical study , a potential PET imaging 
agent has been identified and is being 
assessed for suitability for clinical use.
The Orexin-1 receptor is considered 
to be central to the brain’ s “craving” and 
“reward” pathways with pre-clinical efficacy 
observed in multiple addiction models. 
Recently, Actelion Pharmaceuticals Ltd 
(“Actelion”) announced the first public 
disclosure of a selective Orexin-1 antagonist 
entering clinical development with a Phase 1 
study currently in progress. Selectivity against 
the structurally similar Orexin-2 receptor is 
of critical importance and C4XD has identified 
compounds with more than 1,000-fold 
selectivity for the Orexin-1 receptor versus 
the Orexin-2, which has a very different 
biological function in mediating the sleep/
wake cycle. Molecules that target the 
Orexin-2 receptor, such as the approved 
drug Suvorexant, have been shown to be 
beneficial in the treatment of insomnia and 
therefore this activity must be absent from 
a drug being developed for the treatment 
of addiction.
Following Actelion’ s lead, C4XD believes 
that a number of pharmaceutical companies 
have active pre-clinical Orexin-1 programmes 
for the treatment of addiction. C4XD’ s 
programme is well placed from a product 
development perspective and provides a 
licensing opportunity for pharma companies 
interested in the treatment of addiction 
seeking to acquire an Orexin-1 programme.
Parkinson’s disease
Analysis of the Wellcome Trust’ s 
publicly available Parkinson’ s disease 
dataset using C4XD’ s proprietary target 
discovery technology T axonomy3
®
 has 
identified multiple novel targets in discrete 
patient sub-groups that could potentially 
provide an opportunity in stratified medicine. 
C4XD is extending this analysis by examining 
an additional dataset that contains clinical 
phenotype descriptions to be used in 
combination with the genetic stratification. 
Once this analysis is complete, novel targets 
for progression will be selected and linked to 
a specific sub-group of Parkinson’ s patients.
Inflammation
Oral NRF-2 Activator Programme
In September 2015, C4XD announced 
it had designed novel activators of the 
NRF-2 pathway, which is important in 
mediating lung diseases such as chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (“COPD”), 
and multiple sclerosis (“MS”). COPD 
represents an area of substantial unmet 
medical need and a $41 billion market
2
 
and, therefore, oral activators of NRF-2 are 
the subject of considerable interest by the 
pharmaceutical industry. However, novel 
NRF-2 activators have proved difficult 
to identify. Recently, C4XD’ s proprietary 
technology has enabled the discovery 
of some of the most potent compounds 
reported so far against NRF-2 and these 
should be more selective than previously 
developed agents. C4XD initiated a fully 
integrated research programme in 2015/16
CEO’s statement continued
Clive Dix, Chief Executive Officer
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016 10
Strategic report with a UK-based contract research organisation 
providing chemistry and biology services 
with the goal of delivering a shortlist 
of molecules from which C4XD would 
select a candidate to take into pre-clinical 
development and significant progress has 
been made.
IL-17 Programme
In October 2015, C4XD announced it had 
identified highly selective small molecule 
leads in our programme against Interleukin-17 
(“IL-17”), a critical and high value target 
in inflammation and autoimmune diseases, 
including psoriasis. The psoriasis market is 
estimated to be worth $9 billion per annum
3
. 
Current attempts to target IL-17 are based 
on injectable monoclonal antibodies with 
the identification of orally available small 
molecules proving extremely challenging. 
C4XD’ s technology has enabled the 
identification of small molecules that can 
selectively block IL-17 activity, offering the 
potential of oral or topical use with benefits 
over injectable antibody therapies.
Rheumatoid arthritis
Analysis of the publicly available 
Wellcome Trust’ s rheumatoid arthritis 
dataset using C4XD’ s proprietary target 
discovery technology T axonomy3
®
 has 
identified multiple novel targets that have 
not previously been genetically linked with 
this major disease. The targets are from 
protein families whose function suggests 
that any resulting drug molecules will 
have a very different biological impact on 
disease from that of existing rheumatoid 
arthritis therapies, enabling considerable 
therapeutic and commercial differentiation.
C4XD has already prioritised two of these 
drug targets for evaluation as potential new 
pipeline programmes and the first of these 
targets is currently at the evaluation stage.
Diabetes
Oral GPR142 Agonist Programme 
Diabetes is a large and growing market, 
estimated to be worth $55 billion per 
annum by 2017
4
. In September 2015, C4XD 
announced the identification of novel 
lead molecules that target GPR142, a 
key factor in the production of insulin.
Activation of the GPR142 receptor stimulates 
insulin production in a glucose-dependent 
manner, avoiding the hypoglycaemia risk 
associated with some existing diabetes 
therapies. GPR142 has recently become 
the focus of considerable activity within the 
pharma industry, including key publications 
from Eli Lilly and Merck. Using its proprietary 
technology , C4XD has identified critical drug 
design principles, enabling the Company 
to generate novel, potent, orally available 
compounds in just a few months. C4XD 
has demonstrated potent activity of the 
Company’ s proprietary molecules in isolated 
pancreatic islets, the region of the pancreas 
that produces insulin, and continues to 
evaluate multiple novel series ahead of 
selecting its lead series for progression.
Oral GLP-1 Agonist Programme
GLP-1 is a clinically validated diabetes 
target with multiple products in late stage 
clinical development or approved and 
marketed. The market leader for GLP-1 
agonists, Victoza
®
, achieved 2015 sales of 
$2.68 billion in 2015
5
. However , these products 
are peptide-based therapeutic agents which 
require injection and are expensive to 
manufacture and prescribe. C4XD believes 
there is significant opportunity to develop 
a more convenient oral therapy that would 
also provide the potential for once-daily 
fixed-dose combination products with 
other marketed oral diabetes products.
Using its Conformetrix platform, C4XD has 
identified novel molecules that activate the 
GLP-1 receptor and studies are underway to 
further profile these molecules for suitability 
as orally delivered therapeutic agents.
Oncology
C4XD’ s Drug Discovery Engine is currently 
being utilised to target two key therapeutic 
principles in the treatment of cancer: an 
epigenetic target potentially useful for the 
treatment of cancer, such as cancers of the 
breast, prostate, lung and head and neck; and 
a small molecule immuno-oncology approach 
useful for the treatment of metastatic 
non-small cell lung cancer, melanoma 
and bladder and renal cancers. These 
programmes are at the evaluation stage.
” Our alliances provide us with a powerful 
new basis to expand our portfolio.”
1 Source: GBI Research 2012.
2  Source: Visiongain, Asthma and COPD 
Therapies: World Market 2013–2023.
3  Source: Visiongain, Psoriasis Treatment: 
World Market 2013–2023.
4  Source: Visiongain, Diabetes Treatments: 
World-Drug-Market-2013–2023.
5  Novo Nordisk Annual Report 2015.
Strategic report
11
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016
www.c4xdiscovery.com
