 02
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2005
Chairman’s statement
Peter Buckley
Chairman
Caledonia’s second year
as an investment trust
has been successful, 
with significant
outperformance again
recorded against our
benchmark.
Results
I am delighted to report that our second year as an investment
trust has been another successful one. We are pleased once
again to have delivered excellent results for shareholders with
total shareholder return over ﬁve and ten years outperforming 
our benchmark of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index by 
133% and 111% respectively, which is considerably ahead of the
outperformance recorded a year ago. It has also been an eventful
year in that we found a satisfactory solution to the ill-considered
attempts to liquidate Caledonia and destroy a company with a
proud record of delivering good value for its shareholders over 
a long time frame. This is fully explained under ‘Elective special
dividend’ below.
Share price
We are pleased that our continued growth in net assets per share
amounting to some 21% over the year has been complemented
by a further reduction in the discount of our share price to our
underlying assets. This discount has narrowed from 30% two
years ago to 21% a year ago and now to 12% at the close of the
year under review. The discount is slightly above the average of
our Global Growth sector peer group, and still well above some 
of the other top performers in this sector with whom we can
justiﬁably compare ourselves. We do well to remember however
that we do not control our share price, though we have worked
diligently to create greater awareness of our good long term
performance and particularly with retail investors whom we
believe to be natural owners of our shares. We shall continue 
with this effort as Tim Ingram explains in his chief executive’s
report, but the restoration of stability within our shareholder base
is likely also to have contributed to this lower discount so that it
will prove much more challenging to continue this trend from now
onwards, which may in turn affect our total return performance.
Nonetheless, we believe that our long established strategy of
taking signiﬁcant stakes in businesses of which we have a good
understanding, with particular emphasis on identifying sound
managements, should continue to deliver good long term net
asset value performance.
Dividend
We are pleased to recommend a ﬁnal dividend of 19.5 pence per
share bringing the total for the year to 28.2 pence. This amounts
to an increase of 4.4% and maintains our policy of seeking to
achieve progressive annual dividend payments, which we have
now delivered for 38 successive years.
Elective special dividend
In July 2004, the elective special dividend and reduction of
capital that had been proposed to resolve the long running
dispute amongst the shareholders of Caledonia’s largest
shareholder, The Cayzer Trust Company, in which two
institutional shareholders had also become involved, became
effective. This dispute had been damaging to Caledonia’s
business model, which is founded on being a stable investor,
willing and able to take the longer term view. Under these
proposals, all shareholders were offered the opportunity to
receive an elective special dividend, on up to two-ninths of 
their shareholdings, of an amount based on an 18% discount 
to the company’s net asset value per share, with subsequent
cancellation of those shares on which the dividend was paid
through a Court approved reduction of capital. I am pleased  03
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2005
to report that, aside from The Cayzer Trust Company, which had
undertaken in advance to take up its full entitlement in order to
facilitate the buy-out of its dissident shareholders, and Hermes,
which we expected to participate given its previous publicly
expressed views in support of the liquidation of Caledonia, 
the shares cancelled in respect of our other shareholders only
amounted to some 1% of our overall share capital. This outcome
enabled us to put an end to the misplaced and potentially
destabilising attempts by a small handful of shareholders to
liquidate Caledonia by paying out £88m, or less than 10% of our
shareholders’ funds. We were most encouraged by this support
and I would like to thank our many shareholders who believe in
our long term approach and who chose to remain with us. It is
good to know that the £88m outﬂow of funds has been more than
made up by the subsequent increase in the value of our assets 
by the year end.
Portfolio
In my interim statement, I reported on the reduced weighting 
in our portfolio of our two largest holdings, Close Brothers and
Kerzner International (‘KI’), where disposals had netted proceeds
of some £91m. These rebalancing issues are ones of success
given the strong share price performance of these companies
over time and we took advantage of an even higher price for 
KI shares in February of this year and realised a further £28m.
These investments still remain our two largest holdings, at 
14% and 12% of our portfolio respectively at the year end. 
The chief executive’s report gives a more detailed commentary
on our portfolio.
Economic and political background
Over the years, I have made brief reference to the economic
background against which we operate with the inevitable bias
which is imposed by the incumbent political faction. I have also
consistently highlighted the damage imposed on our economy 
by our failure to reject the political and federalist agenda emanating
from Brussels, as against one seeking to build a more open – 
or common – marketplace. However, we have rather missed the
bus on the latter , for the world is now our marketplace – not the
historic boundaries of Europe as recently expanded. It is therefore
encouraging to see the groundswell of opinion recognising the
shortcomings of an unelected and unaccountable body in Brussels
which seeks extravagantly to build an ivory tower . The forthcoming
referenda are pivotal to this issue but, even if the proposals for the
new European Constitution are rejected, the challenge will still
remain to undo much of the stultifying legislation which has been
imposed unilaterally on the business community .
The recent election has sadly perpetuated a regime whose
economic doctrines are gradually worsening the outlook for
business in this country. Most leading economic bodies have
recently warned of the growing public sector deﬁcit with its
inbuilt inefﬁciencies and of the likelihood of yet higher taxation.
The ﬂawed idealism attaching to this burgeoning Government
expenditure has not yet fully dawned but it inevitably will and this
causes us to be cautious on the investment front until the storm
develops more fully and realism looks like prevailing.
Board
We have taken the opportunity to strengthen our board over 
the past six months. I was pleased to welcome Richard Goblet
d’Alviella, chief executive of Sofina, the Belgium-based
investment company, to our board as a non-executive director 
in January and more recently, in April, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and
Will Wyatt as executive directors. Given our interest in ﬁnding
suitable investment opportunities on the Continent, exempliﬁed
by our recent investment in Cobepa, and Soﬁna’s not dissimilar
investment philosophy to our own, Richard Goblet’s wide
investment experience of the continent of Europe is a valuable
added resource. Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Will Wyatt, who have
worked for Caledonia since 1995 and 1997 respectively and who
both became associate directors three years ago, are responsible
for a growing number of recent investment initiatives. We now
have a younger board which is positive, whilst maintaining the
experience which is crucial to our long term approach.
Sir David Kinloch retired as an executive director in January 2004
on reaching the normal retirement age, but remained as a 
non-executive director until the conclusion of last year’s annual
general meeting. Accordingly, he left the board during the year
under review and I would wish to repeat my thanks to him for 
his valuable service to Caledonia since the company took to its
new life in 1988. Sadly, Michael Wyatt also decided to retire from
the board at the close of the ﬁnancial year. His contribution over
30 years as a director has been huge and his steady counsel
through the enormous changes which have taken place with the
business over that period has stood the company in great stead.
He was deputy chairman from 1994 until 2001 and became a
non-executive director in 2002. I would wish to thank him most
wholeheartedly on behalf of all our shareholders.
Staff
Once again I would like to pay tribute to the unstinting efforts 
of our focused management team in Cayzer House and for its
commitment to continuing to build Caledonia for the beneﬁt 
of all our shareholders. The consistency of good culture in any
business is a key ingredient for success and I believe we score
well on this count, with a strong will to preserve this special
feature. In addition to thanking the home team, I would also 
like to extend these thanks to all those who have done well for 
us in our investee companies.
Outlook
It is normally difﬁcult to interpret the crystal ball, but our view
tends on the cautious side. Deﬁcits and consumer debt in the
USA are high and the latter is repeated in the UK with the added
issue of rising Government spending. However, growth over 
the medium to longer term in Asia and the Far East, where we 
are inclined to seek some investment opportunities, looks
interesting. We shall bear these factors in mind as we move
forward in the belief that our philosophy should continue to
deliver good value for shareholders.
Peter Buckley
Chairman
