 Interim Chairman’s statement
Sam Williams, Interim Chairman
” The Board is fully 
committed to the 
delivery of our strategy.”
Strategic report We are passionate about finding better ways 
of discovering drugs, from identifying novel 
therapeutic targets through to designing 
best-in-class molecules that act against these 
targets. We believe that the only way to 
do this is to equip talented and motivated 
scientists with unique tools that allow them 
to perform discovery better than anyone 
else. That is what we aim to do at C4XD. Our 
pioneering approach to target identification 
and drug design differentiates us from our 
peers and forms the core of our “Discovery 
Engine”. We will continue to keep an open 
mind in building our engine and will add 
to our technological foundations where 
necessary. If we can deliver our scientific 
goals and our commitment to sustainability 
through the reinvestment of deal revenue 
into our engine, then we believe we will 
break new ground in the UK R&D landscape. 
The Board is fully committed to the delivery 
of our strategy.
The strength of our core technologies 
has continued to attract market-leading 
talent, and the Group has already 
been transformed with the appointment 
of Clive Dix as Chief Executive Officer 
following his short and impactful period 
as Executive Chairman. We could not have 
found a more suitable candidate to take 
the Group forward and our conviction 
is supported by the superb progress the 
Group has made since his appointment 
in May 2016.
C4XD has demonstrated a continued ability 
to adapt and evolve in order to deliver strong 
growth and sound business fundamentals. 
We appreciate our shareholders’ continued 
support and confidence and we look forward 
to delivering significant shareholder value 
in 2017 and beyond.
Sam Williams
Interim Chairman
6 January 2017
” We are passionate about finding 
better ways of discovering drugs.”
Strategic report
07
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016
www.c4xdiscovery.com
