 Results
The first year for Caledonia as an authorised investment trust has
been highly successful with significant outperformance recorded
against its chosen benchmark. T otal shareholder returns of 77%
and 138% over five and ten years have outdistanced the FTSE
All-Share T otal Return index by 90% and 44% respectively. This
performance has been achieved by following our long established
strategy of taking significant stakes in businesses of which we
have a good understanding, with particular emphasis on identifying
high calibre management. We also take the longer term view.
We are particularly pleased that this continued outperformance is
being recognised in our share price, which over the financial year
has increased by 58% from 642.5 pence to 1017 pence. This not
only reflects the improved underlying net asset value but, just as
encouragingly, a narrowing of the share price discount from 30%
to 20%. Whilst it is always wise to acknowledge that we cannot
control our own share price, we have made determined efforts to
explain ourselves more widely to the retail investing community,
which we believe has contributed to increased investor interest
and the marked reduction in the discount.
Our good results have enabled us to recommend an increased
final dividend of 18.6 pence per share, resulting in an increase 
in our annual dividend from 26 pence to 27 pence. This is in line
with our stated aim of progressive dividend increases, which has
been unbroken for the past 37 years, and we are well positioned
for this with distributable reserves of £451m, which is unusually
high for an investment trust.
Settlement proposals
In my interim statement I explained the proposals, put to us in
June of last year, which would have resulted in the liquidation 
of the assets of Caledonia and destroyed a company that has
produced outstanding long term performance for its shareholders.
These proposals were nevertheless carefully considered by 
your board with advice from N M Rothschild & Sons and
Cazenove & Co. With the benefit of this advice, the board
unanimously concluded that the proposals were not in the best
interests of shareholders. These proposals had been formulated
by a minority group of shareholders in The Cayzer T rust Company,
a 38% shareholder in Caledonia and wholly owned by members
of the Cayzer family and related trusts. The support of a majority
in Cayzer Trust was needed for the proposals to succeed, but 
in the event they were overwhelmingly rejected and formally
withdrawn on 17 October 2003.
Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2004 02
Chairman’s statement
Peter Buckley
Chairman Caledonia Investments plc
Annual report 2004 03
Your board, as represented by all of its independent directors,
was quite clear that it was not in the interests of the shareholders
of Caledonia, nor its business, for this highly public dispute,
which had lasted for several years, to continue and urged the
board of Cayzer Trust to continue to seek a solution. This
subsequently led to Caledonia’s announcement, on 15 March this
year, of a proposed return of funds by way of an elective special
dividend, on up to two-ninths of all shareholdings, of an amount
based on an 18% discount to the company’s net asset value 
per share. This net asset value per share will be after making
provision for the proposed final dividend, which will be paid to 
all shareholders on all their shares, whether or not they elect to
receive the special dividend. All shares on which the special
dividend is elected will be cancelled for nil consideration through
a Court approved reduction of capital. If this proposal is approved,
this net asset value will be struck shortly before the elective
dividend is due to be paid in early July and will result in an
enhanced net asset value per share for continuing shareholders
of between 1.6% and 4.7%, depending on the level of take up of
the elective special dividend. Cayzer Trust will elect to receive its
dividend in full, which will enable it, in conjunction with existing
resources, to pay out its dissident minority group of shareholders
under the terms of an agreed settlement.
A circular setting out full particulars of the elective special dividend
proposals has been sent to shareholders. The circular also 
sets out proposals for Caledonia to renew its authority to make
market purchases of its own shares and for approval of a waiver
of the mandatory offer provisions in the City Code that might
otherwise apply to the Cayzer concert party as a consequence 
of such purchases. These would provide Caledonia with
additional flexibility in the management of its capital base and 
are more fully explained under the heading of ‘Extraordinary
general meeting’ in the directors’ report on page 31. Your board
very much hopes that these proposals will be successfully
concluded and allow management to concentrate fully on the
development of the business.
Economic and political background
It has been my custom to make brief mention of the economic
and political background in which we must exercise our
investment and commercial decisions and, in my view, if the
present Government were a listed business, most analysts would
post a ‘sell’ rating. Public expenditure has soared with few visible
benefits, taxation has risen steeply, but disguised as cleverly as
the spin merchants know how, and both business and the citizen
are becoming increasingly entangled in webs of legislation, 
which seem to encourage both blame and dependency cultures.
What surprises many is that our economy still seems in such
good shape, but when the honeymoon of tax rises to fuel the ever
increasing, but non-productive, government expenditure is over,
as surely must come, we have to earn our place in an increasingly
competitive world economy and not just within the slower
economies of Europe.
It is of considerable concern that the political leaders within
Europe continue to enlarge the European Community, with the
recent accession of ten new member states with less advanced
economies, when it is painfully obvious that the formula for 
a combined Europe is at breaking point so far as many members
of its electorate are concerned. Reality and affordability need 
to come more to the forefront, but it does seem that democracy
may temper the political pipe dreams and, so far as Britain is
concerned, the re-emergence of a credible opposition political
party, with a more balanced view on the European Union, 
is encouraging.
Board
We were pleased to welcome John May, who joined the board as
an executive director on 1 September last year. His experience
over 25 years of advising, managing and investing in both listed
and unlisted companies is well fitted to Caledonia’s business
model and he has already made a significant contribution. This
appointment partly anticipated the retirement of Sir David Kinloch,
who reached the age of 62 in January this year, but who remains
a non-executive director until the conclusion of this year’s AGM.
David, who joined British & Commonwealth shortly before the
separation from Caledonia, was a founder executive director 
of Caledonia when it took on its new life in 1988, and became
deputy chief executive in 1994. His shrewd judgement and overall
contribution during this time has been of great value to shareholders
and I would like to thank him most warmly on your behalf.
I would like to advise shareholders that, since the publication of
the revised Combined Code by the Financial Reporting Council
after the lengthy debate on the Higgs Report, your board has
introduced a Governance Committee, comprising three
independent non-executive directors. This will ensure that any
potential conflict of interest will be identified, and then addressed
only by those directors who are free of any such conflict. We
continue to review the balance and composition of the board in
the light of the revised Combined Code.
Staff
The liquidation proposals already referred to proved an unwelcome
distraction for management, incurring considerable cost, and
diverting the proper focus of creating shareholder value. As you
may imagine, the settlement proposals have been equally time
consuming, but in a much better cause. Adjusting to our new
status as an investment trust, with the increased level of reporting
which we have introduced, has also added to the work load 
and Caledonia is more complicated than the majority of
conventional investment trusts. As ever, our management team
has risen admirably to the challenges and I would like to record
the fullest thanks of the board on behalf of all the shareholders
for their unstinting efforts. We are fortunate to have a high calibre
management team, which is well suited to lead the business
forward.
Outlook
The difficult political and economic background referred to
above, combined with instability in the Middle East, make the
climate for investment judgements, as ever, most challenging.
However, we continue to identify an encouraging number of
opportunities, which we have found over the years do not always
conform with world economic trends. Such opportunities can, 
if carefully chosen, still deliver value against the trend and we
shall endeavour to succeed in this regard.
Peter Buckley
Chairman
