 Our vision
The global medicine’s R&D landscape 
has transformed over the past decade. 
Large pharmaceutical companies have 
become increasingly reliant on discovery 
innovation from small and mid-size 
biopharma to supply their development 
pipelines. There is now a huge opportunity 
to provide pharma with a sustainable 
source of commercially attractive assets.
At C4X Discovery, our vision is to fulfil this need 
by becoming the world’ s most productive Drug 
Discovery Engine. We will commit our resources 
to the early discovery of novel therapeutic targets 
for valuable disease areas and generate multiple 
new candidate drug molecules against these targets. 
We will enable partners, who are much better placed, 
to take on the technical and financial risk associated 
with the clinical development of these molecules. 
Our goals are ambitious and we aim to produce at 
least four pre-clinical candidates every year 
once the Company reaches sustainable productivity 
(“steady state”). Our sustainability will be possible 
by licensing these assets to pharma and using the 
revenue generated to drive our engine further.
2015/16: An engine-building year
2016
7 October 2015
Small molecule 
leads against IL-17 
for inflammation and 
autoimmune diseases
19 November 2015
Appointment of Clive Dix 
as Executive Chairman
28 October 2015
Collaboration with Structural Genomics 
Consortium at Oxford University
C4XD’s management team has 
proactively driven the Company 
to reach multiple value inflexion 
points over the year.
C4XD at a glance
Our vision is to become the world’s most productive 
Drug Discovery Engine and provide pharma with a 
sustainable source of commercially attractive assets.
Our goal is to produce four or more pre-clinical candidates 
each year at steady state
We believe that our proprietary suite of state-of-the-art technologies, 
exploited by our highly experienced and uniquely trained scientific team, 
leaves us well positioned to achieve this goal. Under the Company’ s new 
leadership, with Dr Clive Dix as Chief Executive Officer and a strong 
and experienced team surrounding him, we have already taken strides 
towards achieving our vision.
Y ear 1
1–2
candidates
Y ear 2
2–3
candidates
Y ear 3
>4
candidates
Steady state
>4
candidates
Steady state
3 September 2015
Expansion of team with 
strong biology expertise
23 September 2015
Breakthrough compounds for 
diabetes and inflammation
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016 02
Strategic report Our Discovery Engine
Our suite of combined proprietary technologies forms the core of 
our state-of-the-art Drug Discovery Engine that spans novel target 
identification and drug molecule design.
T axonomy3
®
Taxonomy3
®
 is a novel in silico platform technology that utilises 
proprietary ground-breaking mathematical algorithms to perform 
complex multivariate analyses of genetic data. T axonomy3
®
 is used 
to analyse “healthy-versus-disease” genetic datasets. It identifies 
and characterises defined patient groups and is able to ascertain 
previously unknown genetic linkages and interactions between 
genes and biological pathways in a broad range of diseases. 
Taxonomy3
®
 fuels our drug discovery portfolio by generating 
novel targets in these genetically defined patient sub-groups.
Conformetrix
Our Conformetrix patented technology platform allows 
the dynamic 3D shapes of free drug molecules to be precisely 
measured from experimental data, giving medicinal chemists 
insights into the behaviour and physical properties of drug molecules. 
The measurement, analysis and use of dynamic 3D shapes is at 
the heart of the C4X Drug Discovery Engine. The focus and clarity 
that these provide, allow us to make rapid progress in developing 
new and better drugs at a fraction of the cost compared to best 
industry practice.
MolPlex
The MolPlex platform is a pioneering software-based system that 
combines state-of-the-art chemoinformatics, computational chemistry 
and artificial intelligence to optimise the drug development process. 
This technology enables C4XD to not only generate the chemical 
starting point for such design programmes in rapid time, but also 
to enhance the other properties required for successful human 
administration of a drug molecule (e.g. absorption, metabolism 
and excretion). Each of Conformetrix and MolPlex provide 
independent insights into how to refine initial hit molecules to be 
highly suited to interact with their biological targets.
4 July 2016
Identification of new drug 
targets in inflammation 
and neurodegeneration
28 September 2016
Post balance sheet event: 
new strategic collaboration 
with Evotec
4 May 2016
Appointment of Clive Dix 
as Chief Executive Officer and 
Sam Williams as Interim Chairman
11 July 2016
Acquisition of drug discovery 
technologies from MolPlex
Combined technology suite
T ogether with our highly experienced scientists, these 
three complementary technologies form our Discovery Engine. 
Used in conjunction with industry-standard chemical and 
biology techniques accessed via our network of contract 
research organisations, this represents the full complement 
of capabilities required to deliver viable pre-clinical candidates 
suitable for advancement into clinical development in 
collaboration with pharma partners.
1 March 2016
Acquisition of genetic 
analysis Adorial and 
its subsidiaries
6 September 2016
Post balance sheet event: 
£5.0m fundraise through 
conditional placing of 
ordinary shares
PRE-CLINICAL 
PORTFOLIO
DRUG TARGET 
DISCOVERY & 
SELECTION
NOVEL SMALL 
MOLECULE DESIGN
 Conformetrix technology platform
Taxonomy3
®
Partner targets
Industry approaches
BROAD THERAPEUTIC 
AREA OPPORTUNITIES
           MolPlex
Strategic report
03
C4X Discovery Holdings plc 
Annual report and accounts 2016
www.c4xdiscovery.com
