 02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Results
Caledonia’s net asset value per share recovered by 30.5% in the year 
to 31 March 2010, having fallen by some 28% in the previous year’s 
turbulent equity markets. The fact that this recovery lagged that 
of the FTSE All-Share index should be seen in the context of our 
relative outperformance in the previous year and, over a prolonged 
period, in each of the years before that.
 Our share price total return has continued to outperform 
the index signiﬁ cantly over a ten year period. However, over the 
last ﬁ ve years we are now showing some underperformance due to 
the recent widening of our share price discount to net asset value. 
Tim Ingram gives a detailed analysis, in his Chief Executive’s report, 
of Caledonia’s performance track record.
Dividend
The board declared a second interim dividend in February of 24.7p, 
which was paid on 30 March 2010. As stated at the time, the board 
believed that it was in the shareholders’ interests to accelerate the 
timing of this year’s ﬁ nal dividend. The second interim dividend has 
therefore replaced the ﬁ nal dividend that would normally have 
been paid in August 2010. The directors do not recommend the 
payment of a ﬁ nal dividend.
 The second interim dividend gave a 5. 1% increase of 1.2p over 
the 2009 ﬁ nal dividend, resulting in a total dividend for the year 
of 35.3p per share, an overall increase of 4.4%. This represents the 
43rd successive year of annual dividend increases.
Investment strategy
During the year, I have had the opportunity to visit the 
management teams of most of our major investee companies, 
accompanying the responsible Caledonia executive director. 
From these visits I have been able to appreciate just how much 
our investee companies value having Caledonia as a signiﬁ cant 
shareholder, given our good investment reputation. It is also clear 
to me that having a Caledonia representative as a non-executive 
director on most of our investee company boards gives us an 
invaluable insight into the affairs of those companies. It not only 
enables us to gain a deeper understanding of our investments, 
but also allows our investee companies to beneﬁ t from the skills 
of our investment team.
 
Our own board has an important role to play in reviewing 
Caledonia’s investment strategy. We have normally found it 
appropriate to undertake such a review every other year, but last 
year we decided to hold an interim review in the light of the 
exceptionally difﬁ cult global economic conditions which persisted 
for much of the year. We examined in detail the geographic mix of 
our investments, where a notable change over the last several years 
has been our increased exposure to Asia. We re-afﬁ rmed our belief 
that this exposure will continue to give us good growth 
opportunities, while recognising that it does require a signiﬁ cant 
input of investment management resources on our part. We also 
examined the mix of quoted and unquoted investments in our 
overall portfolio and concluded that a signiﬁ cant weighting of 
unquoted investments with strong growth potential remains 
appropriate, but again we recognise the greater investment 
management time these require compared with quoted 
investments.
 In addition, we speciﬁ cally examined our experiences of 
investing in India, including a review of our current investments. 
Caledonia has been invested in India for over ﬁ ve years, during 
which we have learnt a great deal and, we believe, have built a 
good reputation in the Indian market. While appreciating the risks 
associated with investing in India, we continue to believe that India 
is likely to offer an attractive level of growth over the coming years.
AIFM Directive
Caledonia has spent much time over the past few months seeking 
to persuade EU policy makers to exclude investment trusts from 
the scope of the proposed Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive. The Directive was drafted in response to the EU’s 
perception of the role played by hedge funds and private equity 
ﬁ rms in the recent ﬁ nancial crisis and its main objective is to subject 
these to greater transparency and accountability. However, the 
Directive has included investment trusts within its deﬁ nition of an 
alternative investment fund and, in doing so, has failed to recognise 
their totally different nature and structure, led as they are by 
boards fully accountable to shareholders, subject to the highest 
standards of corporate governance and transparency and with 
their shares freely tradeable on the London Stock Exchange.
 Amendments to the Directive are being proposed to 
recognise the distinctive nature of investment trusts, but we shall 
continue to press for their total exclusion from its scope, since 
otherwise there remains a risk of signiﬁ cant cost and compliance 
burdens, with no beneﬁ ts whatsoever.
Chairman’s statement
Share price total return outperformance against the FTSE All-Share Total Return 
over ten years
16 7%
Increase in the annual dividend
4. 4% 03 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Staff
All our staff have once more fulﬁ lled their duties with considerable 
professionalism and dedication and I give them my thanks for their 
hard work throughout the year.
Outlook
Equity markets have recovered from their steep falls of the recent 
past and overall market valuations now look more challenging, 
with the likely prospect of sluggish economic growth ahead in 
the developed world. In the US and much of Europe, ﬁ scal 
retrenchment will need to be severe and that will be notably so 
in the UK. We now look forward to the new Government taking 
timely and appropriate steps, however hard the decisions may be, 
to reduce the level of public borrowing and to pursue concomitant 
measures to reshape our public services.
 Nearly all of our investment activity last year was in existing 
investee companies, supporting the capital needs of sound 
businesses which we know well. Our focus is likely to be similar over 
the year ahead, though we shall remain alert for new opportunities 
which provide sufﬁ cient value potential.
James Loudon
Chairman
Board
The board has seen a number of changes over the past year. In 
September 2009, we were pleased to appoint Charles Gregson as 
an additional independent non-executive director. His experience 
from having been an executive director at United Business Media 
and from his current role as the non-executive Chairman of ICAP 
provides a valuable additional resource to our board.
 In December 2009, Stephen King joined the board as Finance 
Director in succession to Jonathan Cartwright. Jonathan made a 
considerable contribution to Caledonia’s affairs over some twenty 
years both as Finance Director and as a Caledonia representative on 
a number of investee company boards. I would like to thank him on 
behalf of the board and shareholders for his diligent and dedicated 
service. Stephen joined us from De La Rue, where he had been 
Group Finance Director, and has already brought to bear his wide 
ranging skills to Caledonia’s beneﬁ t.
 In January 2010, we announced that Tim Ingram will retire 
as Chief Executive following the AGM on 21 July after eight years 
at the helm. Tim has delivered an outstanding performance for 
Caledonia and its shareholders – over that period the share price 
total return has been more than double that of the FTSE All-Share 
index, a tribute to his exceptionally astute investment judgement. 
In addition, he has successfully exercised the wider skills of a chief 
executive and has been an excellent communicator both with the 
board and the investment community. I would like to thank him 
very much indeed on behalf of the board and shareholders for 
all that he has done for Caledonia.
 In his place we welcome Will Wyatt as Chief Executive. 
Will has been an executive director of Caledonia since 2005 and has 
consistently delivered an excellent investment performance from 
his portfolio of investee companies. We are conﬁ dent that he will 
be a worthy successor as Chief Executive.
“ We have again outperformed 
against our ten year benchmark, 
delivering a total shareholder return 
over the period of 197%. ”
