 2 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Overview
Results
Against a background of market volatility over  
the past year, Caledonia’s net asset value per share 
increased by 6.4% compared with the FTSE All-
Share increase of 5.4%, an outperformance of 1.0%.
Over the longer term, Caledonia’s net asset value per 
share has significantly outperformed this index 
both over the last five years and since Caledonia 
became an investment trust in April 2003.
However, on a total return basis including dividends, 
our net asset value per share has underperformed 
over the last five years. This underperformance  
has been more marked in the case of our share  
price total return over the last five years, with a 
significant widening of the share price discount  
to net asset value, although we have strongly 
outperformed over ten years.
While we cannot directly control the share price 
and discount, sustained superior long term net asset 
value growth and a progressive dividend will be key 
influencing factors. In providing further details of 
Caledonia’s performance in his report, Will Wyatt 
gives strong emphasis to those objectives.
Dividend
The board has recommended a 5.3% increase in  
the final dividend to 26.0p per share, which will be 
payable on 11 August 2011. The total dividend for 
the year will therefore amount to 37.1p per share,  
an increase of 5.1% over the previous year. This 
represents the 44th successive year of annual 
dividend increases. It is the board’s intention to 
raise the dividend to a higher base level in due 
course, when income from the portfolio allows,  
and to continue its progressive dividend policy.
Investment strategy
The Chief Executive’s half-year and full-year  
reports set out in some detail the recommendations 
he and his management team have made to the 
board for building on Caledonia’s past success  
and achieving strong performance in the future.  
The board has agreed both the overall strategy  
and the strategy proposed for the component  
parts of the investment portfolio.
The Caledonia investment philosophy is tried and 
tested and will continue to be followed. However, 
within that model the board fully endorses, for 
instance, the moves towards managing Caledonia’s 
investments as pools of capital with enhanced 
accountability for relevant members of the 
investment team and towards the inclusion of  
a pool to yield higher income as well as growth.  
In furtherance of these moves, the management 
team has been strengthened in recent months  
by the recruitment of two senior executives.
Board
The board has seen a number of changes since  
the sad death of Peter Buckley in December  
2008, when I took over as Chairman. A year later,  
Stephen King joined the board as Finance Director, 
in succession to Jonathan Cartwright, and last  
July Will Wyatt succeeded Tim Ingram as Chief 
Executive. Charles Gregson joined the board as  
an additional independent non-executive director  
in September 2009.
Over the last two and a half years, Caledonia has 
therefore seen changes in the Chairman, Chief 
Executive and Finance Director. In view of this,  
the board sees the need for some continuity and 
stability, but is also conscious of the length of  
tenure of certain non-executive directors and  
thus intends to undertake a process of gradual 
board refreshment.
In the meantime, David Thompson will take over 
from Charles Allen-Jones, the Senior Independent 
Director, as Chairman of the Audit Committee. 
Charles has served as a non-executive director for 
over nine years and Mark Davies will soon have 
done so. However, each of them contributes a  
wealth of knowledge and experience to the board’s 
deliberations in a manner which, in the board’s  
view, enables them to continue to be regarded  
as independent, notwithstanding this milestone.
Chairman’s statement Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 3
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information
Staff
I would like to thank the members of our management 
team for the expertise and diligence they have 
brought to bear on Caledonia’s affairs, and all of  
our staff for the dedicated and professional way  
in which they have worked throughout the year.
Outlook
In most of the developed world low economic 
growth seems likely to persist for some time to 
come, including in the UK. The main drivers of  
the world economy will continue to be elsewhere, 
notably China and India, though policy moves to 
control inflation in those countries may well be  
a limiting factor. Whilst the outlook for Western 
stock markets is bound to be affected by sluggish 
domestic growth, it will also be influenced by the 
major exposure of companies based in developed 
countries to higher growth economies.
With the strategies described above in place and 
ably led by the Chief Executive and his strengthened 
management team, Caledonia will be in a good 
position to take advantage of the investment 
opportunities ahead, as well as benefitting from  
the strengths in its existing portfolio.
James Loudon 
Chairman
AIFM Directive
I mentioned in my report last year that Caledonia 
was making concerted efforts to persuade EU  
policy makers to exclude investment trusts from  
the scope of the Alternative Investment Fund 
Managers Directive. The principal purpose of the 
Directive was to impose greater transparency  
and accountability on private equity and hedge 
funds following the financial crisis. However, it 
encompassed investment trusts within its definition 
of an alternative investment fund, but without any 
recognition of the differences in their nature and 
characteristics. The Directive was approved by  
the European Parliament in November 2010 and, 
while regrettably the adopted version did not 
exclude investment trusts, it did incorporate 
significant amendments to the original text drafted 
by the European Commission. These should enable 
self-managed investment trusts to continue in their 
current form without substantial changes to their 
governance structures, though there will inevitably 
be some additional cost.
However, the European Commission is now to  
draft implementation measures which will then 
have to be incorporated by Member States into 
national law, probably in 2013. As always, the devil 
will be in the detail. We shall therefore continue  
to monitor closely and, where necessary, try to 
influence the progress of the Directive through its 
remaining stages in order to seek the best possible 
outcome for Caledonia and other self-managed 
investment trusts.
Increase in final dividend
 5. 3 %
Overview
