 2  Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc  
Results
We are delighted to report another successful year for the 
company, which has witnessed strong growth from the 
investment portfolio combined with profitable realisations  
and substantial new investments. Net asset value per share  
total return (‘NAVTR’) was 14.9%, building on last year’s 18.9%. 
Income generation was slightly above the previous year and 
continued to cover the cost of both expenses and dividend.  
The board is recommending an increase in the final dividend 
that would result in a 4.0% improvement on the previous year,  
a rate comfortably ahead of inflation. This would represent  
the forty-seventh consecutive year that the dividend paid to 
shareholders has been increased.
Caledonia offers investors the chance to invest alongside the 
company’s largest shareholder, the Cayzer family. The company 
achieves its long term outperformance by carefully choosing 
investments with strong management and sound financial 
discipline in both the listed and unlisted sectors. Caledonia’s 
balance sheet and ownership structure allow the company to 
take a genuinely long term view (in excess of ten years). As a 
closed end fund, we are not under pressure, as many other fund 
managers are, of having to invest new monies raised or having  
to make disposals within a fixed timescale.
The portfolio has evolved significantly since the incumbent 
management team took over four years ago. We have sold many 
of the smaller investments which, whilst good businesses, were 
unlikely to make a material impact on Caledonia’s net asset 
value. We have successfully sold several long term investments 
from our unquoted holdings and have reinvested in typically 
larger unit sizes or added to other larger shareholdings.
A recent but important emphasis has been on the management  
of risk such that returns from the risk taken compare favourably 
with the wider market. Above all, we recognise that we manage 
capital that has already been created and our job is one of both 
preservation and growth within sensible levels of risk.
It is worth reiterating Caledonia’s overriding  
strategic aims:
• to grow capital value over the long term measured 
in real terms 
• to pay an increasing annual dividend, which grows  
at or in excess of inflation over the long term
• to manage risk commensurate with shareholders’ 
requirements and our investment horizon.
A review of the detailed strategy adopted in 2011 was carried 
out by the board during the year. The result of this saw the 
strategic allocation to the Unquoted pool marginally increasing 
and allocation to the Funds pool reducing. This has reflected 
both market conditions and available opportunity. Details are 
given on page 7. In addition, we have made changes to overall 
performance measurement, which reflect the way we manage 
the business to achieve our strategic aims.
We have achieved a strong performance 
in a year in which we undertook 
significant activity across our portfolio. 
We continued to take advantage of 
opportunities to reduce some of our 
larger holdings to maintain the right 
balance of risk across the portfolio,  
and reported a substantial uplift in NAV 
on the sale of two unquoted investments. 
Our investment activity included  
two significant acquisitions, the 
purchase of Choice Care Group and  
Park Holidays, both of which fit well  
with our investment criteria.
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014  3
Strategic report
The table below shows performance over various time frames:
1 year 
% 
3 years 
% 
5 years 
% 
10 years 
% 
NAVTR 14.9 27.4 83.6 146.0 
NAVTR annualised 14.9 8.4 12.9 9.4 
RPI annualised 2.5 3.1 3.8 3.3 
Caledonia RPI outperformance 12.4 5.3 9.1 6.1 
FTSE All-Share TR annualised 8.6 
Caledonia FTSE outperformance 0.8 
Income
Income received during the year rose slightly to £41.7m, 
compared with £41.4m last year. Significant growth in income  
is unlikely to resume until 2016, when we expect the most recent 
unquoted investments to begin to make a full contribution.
Balance sheet
At the year end, we had net debt of £7.1m, compared with net 
assets of £1,445.6m, though one day later, we received initial 
cash of £67.2m from the disposal of Oval, taking the net cash 
to £60.1m. In addition to the cash balances, the company has 
£175m of committed bank facilities available to it. Our policy 
is to keep gearing at modest levels and this is primarily confined 
to the unlisted companies that we own rather than on Caledonia’s 
balance sheet. This is closely monitored by our investment  
team from their board positions at these companies. Our bank 
facilities are primarily in place to provide flexibility for timing 
differences between investment and divestment, but also in  
the case of extreme market movements when we might wish  
to deploy significant amounts of capital.
Overview of portfolio
This year’s performance has been driven by the Quoted, 
Unquoted and Funds pools. Income & Growth had a flat year 
following on from two years of strong outperformance,  
so its overall performance since inception remains healthy. 
Pool
Value 
2013 
£m 
Invest-
ments 
£m 
Disposals 
£m 
Change 
in value 
£m 
Value 
2014 
£m 
Income 
£m 
 
Return 
% 
Quoted 517.2 26.9 (127.8) 81.5 497.8 10.6 20.5 
Unquoted 384.5 166.7 (37.1) 54.2 568.3 22.4 17.7 
Funds 166.8 35.1 (17.4) 19.9 204.4 1.7 11.8 
Income &
Growth 162.0 103.7 (69.3) (6.8) 189.6 7.0 0.1 
Portfolio 1,230.5 332.4 (251.6) 148.8  1,460.1 41.7 15.4 
The portfolio weighting by pool has changed modestly during 
the year, as the Quoted pool has continued to take profits and  
the Unquoted pool has made substantial new investments.  
The Quoted pool, measured as a percentage of net assets, has 
decreased from 40% to 35%, whereas the Unquoted pool has 
increased from 29% to 39%, although this reduced to 34% after 
the sale of Oval. The movement reflects partially our view as  
to comparative valuation metrics between listed and unlisted 
markets and partly the individual opportunities that presented 
themselves to us. The Funds pool continued to build its 
investments in public and private equity funds, particularly  
in the US and Asia, which is a long term process and will not 
influence performance in a significant way for several years. 
Caledonia’s top ten investments accounted for 44% of the 
portfolio, which is consistent with the previous year.
Performance measurement
Last year, the board ceased using a one year benchmark to 
measure performance, which had hitherto been the FTSE 
All-Share, preferring to concentrate on the ten year total return 
measure. Over a shorter period of time, it is more relevant to 
measure our absolute performance on an inflation adjusted basis. 
Since our shareholders expect to increase their wealth in real 
terms on an annual basis, we, in turn, should expect, on average, 
to beat inflation. Should markets fall substantially, so the value 
of our portfolio will fall as we will not move substantially into 
cash. But over several years, we would expect our portfolio to 
grow somewhat ahead of inflation. The table below shows the 
performance of markets over varying periods of time and is 
instructive in judgement of inflation adjusted performance.
Years Periods
Annualised
FTSE All-Share 
Total Return
% 
Outperformance 
to RPI
% 
25 1989-2014 8.8 5.4
20 1994-2014 7.8 4.8
15 1999-2014 4.7 1.7
10 2004-2014 8.5 5.2
5 2009-2014 16.2 12.4 
With both our longer term investment strategy and our 
exposure to unlisted investments, a true picture of how the 
portfolio is performing is only really apparent after a substantial 
amount of time has passed. The board therefore has settled on 
a rolling ten year timeframe as being a relevant period against 
which to compare performance with the FTSE All-Share Total 
Return index. In addition, the board’s aim is for the company to 
deliver annual average returns over a ten year period of between 
RPI+3% and RPI+6%. Historically, this level of performance 
would be in line with or above most share indices, including the 
FTSE All-Share Total Return. Caledonia’s own track record since 
1987, the year in which Caledonia realised its holding in British 
& Commonwealth Holdings and embarked on its strategy  
to build a diversified holding company, was RPI+9% against  
that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return, which was RPI+6%.  
The graph below shows the ten year rolling performance of  
the FTSE All-Share and Caledonia’s NAV total returns marked 
against inflation.
Annualised ten year rolling performance
RPI+3%
RPI+6%
Caledonia NAVTR
FTSE All-Share TR %
03/04 03/06 03/08 03/10 03/12 03/14
15
10
5
0 4  Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc  
Caledonia’s portfolio is invested worldwide though, in general, 
we restrict our direct unlisted investing activities to the UK. 
We invest in funds, both private and public equity, to give 
shareholders wider geographical exposure, backing managers 
for whom we have a high regard. The portfolio has wide 
exposure to currencies other than sterling, which represented 
47% of the overall exposure when investee companies are 
analysed by revenue rather than by domicile. Our policy, as a 
long term investor, is to accept currency fluctuation as a part of 
investment risk. We do not therefore hedge unless a contractual 
obligation has been entered into concerning either proceeds of  
a disposal or funds for an acquisition.
Pool performance
Quoted (£498m, 35% of net assets)
We invest in companies with established business models, strong 
balance sheets and good returns on capital and invest in equities 
over the long term.
The Quoted pool produced an impressive 20.5% return for the 
year, despite reducing its capital base by a net £101m. There 
were notable performances from Polar Capital, returning 69%, 
and Quintain Estates, returning 62%, both investments that 
have been part of the portfolio for many years. The latter had a 
difficult time during the financial crisis, culminating in a rights 
issue, which we supported, and we are delighted to see it return 
to robust health. Close Brothers also contributed significantly, 
producing the second largest gain in value in the portfolio over 
the year. We continued to lighten our holding in this company, 
but we still retain a substantial, albeit reduced, shareholding.  
We also took profits on our long term shareholding in Bristow 
Group, which has produced a series of excellent results over the 
past three years.
New positions have been taken in Rolls-Royce, Diageo and 
Atlas Copco and we added to a number of existing quoted 
businesses that we hold, notably Jardine Matheson. All pay 
healthy levels of dividends. 
Unquoted (£568m, 39% of net assets)
We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and an investor 
with a balance sheet to support a long term perspective. We invest 
in both majority and minority positions.
The Unquoted pool produced a healthy return of 17.7% for  
the year, including generating £22.4m of income. The return 
included a significant uplift on the disposal of Amber Chemicals 
and an increase in value of Oval to its sale value, with healthy 
contributions from most of the remainder of the portfolio.
It has been a year of intense deal making for the Unquoted pool, 
with two significant new investments, Park Holidays and Choice 
Care Group, and two sales, Amber Chemicals and Oval. 
We purchased 98% of the equity of Choice Care Group for 
£49.5m in August 2013. The business is based near Reading and 
owns and operates 49 homes in the south of England, providing 
personalised residential care and supported living for adults 
with severe learning difficulties. The company has significant 
asset backing from its properties and has many other 
characteristics that fit well with our strategy. Caledonia’s  
long term approach is well matched with this business, which 
seeks to grow gradually without compromising its provision  
of care, which is its first and foremost priority. We have already 
provided the company with additional capital to fund its plans 
for expansion.
In November 2013, we acquired Park Holidays, the UK’s fourth 
largest caravan park operator, for an equity consideration of 
£88.1m. This is also a business that fits well with our investment 
criteria, being asset backed and highly cash generative. The 
business has made a good start, with bookings and caravan sales 
showing good growth on the previous year, as we head into the 
high season.
We sold our holding in Oval to the US family-owned insurance 
company, Arthur J Gallagher, one day after the year end. Whilst 
the investment is still shown as part of the portfolio at the year 
end, it is included at the disposal value of £70.0m, a 65% uplift 
to our previous holding value. The final division of Amber 
Chemicals was sold for £22.9m, which represented an uplift 
of over 60% on the holding value prior to sale.
The remainder of the portfolio, which consisted of ten principal 
investments, exhibited good growth. At TGE Marine, the 
liquefied gas engineering company, profits more than doubled 
as its strong order book was translated into sales. Our 2013 
US acquisition of Latshaw Group, consisting of five engineering 
businesses, has been successful, with strong profits growth 
across the companies, as the US economy continues to recover. 
The Sloane Club had a good year, with occupancy rising to new 
highs. Cobehold, which is our largest single investment, valued  
at £100.2m, saw its NAV total return grow by 7%. During the year, 
we participated in Cobehold’s €400m capital raising, committing 
€19.8m of which €9.9m (£8.4m) has been paid to date, enabling 
the company to make several interesting new acquisitions. 
However, we wrote down the value of Easybox, our Italian self -
storage business, and Satellite Information Services, the media 
company, recognising difficult trading conditions.
Funds (£204m, 14% of net assets)
We invest in both private and public equity funds with an emphasis 
on providing exposure to areas of the world where we are less 
willing to invest directly.
The Funds pool return of 11.8% was particularly creditable, 
especially as we are in the process of progressively building its 
exposure to private equity, which means that investment gains 
will not fully come through for several years. The most notable 
performance came from our Chinese private equity fund 
holding, Capital Today China (‘CTC’), where the valuation of  
our stake increased by 53% to £44.8m as at 31 March 2014.  
We originally committed $20m to this fund and have to date 
received $15.2m (£9.9m) in cash. CTC holds a 7% stake in JD.com, 
a Chinese internet retailer, which has recently completed an  
IPO in the US. The fund also owns three other investments  
of note: Youku Tudou, an online video sharing site in which 
Alibaba recently took an 18% stake, Shanghai Sinoway Herbage 
Cosmetics Company, the leading herbal skincare brand in China, 
and City, the largest lingerie retail chain in China.
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report continued Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014  5
Strategic report
Board
After serving on the board for nine years, Richard Goblet 
d’Alviella has decided to step down on 25 June 2014. He will be 
replaced by Harold Boël, CEO of Sofina, the Belgian investment 
company, which has a 5% stake in Caledonia and shares our 
philosophy of close involvement in its investee companies. 
Richard has been a great advocate and supporter of our 
long term outlook and we will miss his wise counsel. Harold  
is a material sciences engineer by training and has been CEO  
of Sofina for six years, prior to which he held a number of 
operational and managerial roles with Corus, now part of  
Tata Steel. We look forward to welcoming him to the board  
as an independent non-executive director.
Charles Allen-Jones has also signalled his wish to step down at 
some point during the current year. Charles has served on the 
board for over 12 years and has made an immeasurable impact 
on the affairs of the company, especially as senior independent 
non-executive director. His sage advice and independent 
thinking will be difficult to replace, but when the time comes  
he will retire with our deep gratitude and very best wishes.
Outlook
It makes a pleasant change to be able to write that economic 
growth is finally returning to western economies, albeit at a low 
level. Asian and other developing economies continue to grow  
at a much faster rate than those in the west, though not without 
signs of slowing down. This has affected their stock markets  
and has brought valuations back to levels where we now feel 
comfortable to deploy capital in these regions. 
Elsewhere, stock markets are now mainly being valued on 
a fundamentals basis, with earnings growth to the fore. 
We believe that the gains of the past two years will not be 
repeated to the same extent this or next year and remain wary  
of external events, which often lead to heavy falls in markets. 
In the UK, economic growth continues to pick up, but we face  
the uncertainty caused by the Scottish vote on independence  
in September this year and a UK general election in 2015. 
Our portfolio remains cautiously positioned, but invested in 
sound businesses with good prospects providing they are 
allowed to flourish by those entrusted to govern our economy. 
We remain confident in our strategy, which is delivering long 
term outperformance and annual returns in excess of inflation.
Rod Kent  Will Wyatt
Chairman Chief Executive
During the year, we invested in several new funds: $10.0m 
(£6.0m) in the Ranger fund managed by Arlington Value Capital, 
a US based value investor which targets listed US equities,  
and £10.0m in the launch of the Polar Capital Global Financials 
Trust, which aims to benefit from the re-rating of financial 
assets across the globe. In addition, we committed $50m to  
FLAG Capital, a US private equity fund of funds, of which $8.5m 
(£5.7m) was drawn in the year. Soon after the year end, 
we invested $20.0m (£11.9m) in the NTAsian Discovery Fund, 
a Bangkok-based small-cap public equity fund, and committed 
$15m to Vision Knight Capital II, an Asian private equity fund.
Income & Growth (£190m, 13% of net assets)
The portfolio holds interests in 40 international listed businesses, 
which provide a reliable and growing dividend. Cash flow returns 
to shareholders are prioritised in the invested businesses.
The Income & Growth pool’s flat performance for the year 
contrasted with last year’s excellent performance, when it 
produced a 23.7% return. The pool has completed three  
full years in existence and performance figures have been  
very pleasing, with a three year return of 28%. Higher yield 
investments went out of vogue during the year under review 
as investors chased growth in higher risk assets. The pool 
produced income of £7.0m, a 40% increase on the previous year, 
representing a gross yield of 4.3%. This will continue to build  
in the future.
The top five holdings were SES, Zurich Insurance, Swedbank, 
HSBC and General Electric. The pool not only provides Caledonia 
with a sustainable income, but also gives us exposure to some  
of the world’s best companies, something we believe is essential 
in any portfolio. We added £20m to the pool during the year  
and would anticipate doing so again during the current year, 
whilst we have surplus cash, to bring the pool in line with its 
strategic allocation.
Discount and share buy-backs 
During the year, we bought back shares for a total of £15.0m, 
which were subsequently cancelled. We view buy-backs as a low 
risk, long term tool for enhancing returns, providing a permanent 
benefit to shareholders when purchased at a discount to net 
assets. The discount to net asset value has traded in the range  
of 16% to 26% throughout the year and we were able to take 
advantage of this to buy shares at an average discount of 19.7%. 
We will once again seek the necessary shareholder approvals  
at the forthcoming annual general meeting to continue with 
these buy-backs for a further year.
Dividend
The board is recommending shareholder approval of a final 
dividend of 35.7p, giving a total for the year of 49.1p, a 4.0% 
increase on the previous year. This would represent the 
forty-seventh consecutive year of increase in our annual 
dividend. The final dividend will be paid on 7 August 2014, 
assuming its payment is approved at the annual general  
meeting to be held at Cayzer House on 17 July 2014.
