 Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
2 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairmans and Chief Executives report
This has been a very strong year 
for Caledonia, with our portfolio  
delivering a healthy 14.2 return for 
shareholders, taking our total AV 
to another record high and further 
extending our ten year market 
outperformance. This performance 
was well ahead of our year on year 
obective and, together with our 
increasing income generation, has 
supported our proposed 3.1 rise 
in the total dividend for the year, 
the forty-eighth year of consecutive 
annual increases.
ur portfolio is built on high uality 
businesses with strong prospects for 
the medium to long term. Coupled 
with our conservative cash position, 
we are well placed to capitalise on 
future opportunities and to meet our 
average annual return obectives of 
RPI3 to RPI over a ten year 
period.
Results
We are pleased to report that Caledonia’s portfolio has delivered 
another year of strong growth. The net asset value per share total 
return (‘NAVTR’), which measures the growth of the balance sheet 
capital and the income that it produces, was 14.2% for the year. This 
creditable performance is well ahead of our year on year objective 
of delivering average annual returns of between RPI+3% and RPI+6% 
over ten year periods and contributed positively to the ten year 
annualised NAVTR at 31 March 2015 of 8.6%. Our year-end NAV per 
share recorded a new high of 2906p and we were pleased to see 
that this has been reflected in our share price, which increased by 
just under 19% in the 12 month period. The board is recommending 
a 3.1% increase in the final dividend, which would result in an overall 
increase of 3.1% for the year, the forty-eighth consecutive year of 
growth in our annual dividend.
Caledonia strategy
Caledonia offers shareholders the opportunity to invest in a 
portfolio, much of which is not available to investors generally. 
The portfolio consists of four pools, each with a differing profile, 
not reflecting any single market or tracking any benchmark. Rather, 
it is the result of finding businesses that demonstrate attributes that 
fit our strategy – low gearing, cash generation and a strong position 
in their market place – and, particularly in the unquoted space, 
companies that prefer our offering as a long term provider of 
capital. By consistently delivering average annual returns over rolling 
ten year periods of between RPI+3% and RPI+6%, we aim to provide 
to shareholders a return that also exceeds the FTSE All-Share Total 
Return index over the long run.
The company’s ownership structure and the fact that we invest from 
our own balance sheet, rather than raising external funds, allows 
us to take a much longer investment time horizon than many 
institutional investors, often over ten years. The long term 
commitment of the Cayzer family and our open-ended approach 
also helps to attract other family-owned businesses and 
management teams seeking capital to develop their businesses 
without the pressure of a change of ownership every few years. 
Our investments in Cobehold and more recently Choice Care Group 
and Park Holidays are good examples of these.
Our longer term, collaborative approach has several other 
differentiating advantages. It allows management teams to invest 
in opportunities for their businesses that take time to bear fruit. 
It avoids the distraction of frequent corporate action that is the 
inevitable result where the providers of capital have to return funds 
to their own investors within a fixed period of time. It also requires 
less reliance on gearing to achieve the required returns, thereby 
taking less risk with the balance sheets of the companies we invest 
in. However, when capital is plentiful and competition is strong, we 
often find ourselves out-bid by others more willing to use higher 
gearing and pay prices that we consider too high. We would rather 
maintain a disciplined approach and preserve our capital than 
overpay for an investment, however attractive.  3
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
We also seek to diversify our assets by allocating capital to different 
geographies and currencies. We invest in funds, both quoted market 
and private equity, to gain exposure to economies such as Asia and 
the US, where we consider it more effective to use local managers 
than to invest directly ourselves. In addition, we enable shareholders 
to gain exposure to a carefully picked selection of direct quoted 
investments. These also reflect our cautious nature with our 
preference for established companies which have demonstrated 
the ability to produce compound growth over the long term, such 
as AG Barr, Bristow Group and Close Brothers – all high quality 
businesses which we have held for many years.
Investment performance
Our long term investment strategy, together with the high 
proportion of less liquid unquoted investments in our portfolio, 
means that performance is most effectively measured over the 
longer term. The board’s aim is therefore for Caledonia’s NAVTR to 
outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return index over rolling ten 
year periods. Our ten year investment horizon provides the 
timeframe for our portfolio to accumulate value, whilst optimising 
risk/return characteristics. We believe that targeting a performance 
range of long term RPI+3% to long term RPI+6% will lead to an 
outperformance of the FTSE All-Share over ten years.
1 year 
% 
3 years 
% 
5 years 
% 
10 years 
% 
NAVTR 14.2 56.3 55.5 127.3 
NAVTR annualised 14.2 16.1 9.2 8.6 
RPI annualised 0.9 2.2 3.1 3.0 
Caledonia RPI outperformance 13.3 13.9 6.1 5.6 
FTSE All-Share TR annualised 7.7 
Caledonia FTSE outperformance 0.9 
The graph below, which shows annualised ten year rolling periods 
of performance (thereby utilising data from a 20 year timespan) 
further illustrates that we are have consistently delivered our long 
term performance objectives.
Annualised ten year rolling performance
RPI+3%
RPI+6%
Caledonia NAVTR
FTSE All-Share TR
03/05 03/07 03/09 03/11 03/13 03/15
15
10
5
0
%
Income and ongoing charges
Investment income for the year rose 15% to £47.2m which, after 
other income and expenses, fully covers the proposed dividend for 
the year. Growth in income has been a particular focus for us over 
the past five years and over this period has increased by 43%, driving 
the yield from the portfolio from under 2% to 3.3%, despite our NAV 
increasing by 38%. We believe the prudent way to run the company 
for our shareholders is to maintain a fully covered dividend without 
charging any of our management expenses to capital.
Our ongoing charges for the year were 1.22% of NAV against 1.03% 
for the prior year. The difference resulted largely from an increase 
in the cost of our share incentive plans, which reflected the recent 
strong performance of our NAV. Our business model of investing 
in unquoted companies requires more management resources than 
a purely quoted portfolio and therefore higher employment costs. 
We estimate that, based on an analysis of the expenses of other 
funds with similar investment focus to each of our pools, an 
equivalent ‘sum of the parts’ benchmark cost of running a fund 
with our particular attributes would be approximately 1.7% of NAV. 
We therefore believe that Caledonia’s self-managed model offers 
shareholders good value for money on a like for like basis.
Balance sheet and cash
Net cash at the year-end amounted to £131.0m against a small net 
debt position of £7.1m at the beginning of the year. This movement 
was the result of the proceeds from the sale of Oval in April 2014, 
distributions of cash by funds and top-slicing activity within our 
Quoted pool. Overall, during the course of the year, we invested 
£199.4m and realised £320.1m, not including investments and 
divestments made within the Income & Growth pool. 
We consider it prudent at this stage of the stock market cycle to 
have a cushion of cash which, alongside committed bank facilities 
of £175m, will enable us to take advantage of opportunities as they 
present themselves. This is especially important in the unquoted 
arena, where the precise timing of investments is generally more 
unpredictable. The board’s policy is to use modest structural gearing 
selectively within the individual portfolio companies, rather than 
borrow within Caledonia. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
4 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairmans and Chief Executives report continued
Overview of portfolio
The portfolio, before management expenses and other net assets 
were taken into account, returned 16.8% for the year under review. 
This bulk of the return came from the Unquoted and Funds pools, 
the latter returning an exceptional 45.2%, driven by Capital Today 
China (‘CTC’) and its investment in JD.com, which during the year 
listed on NASDAQ. It is important to point out that the performance 
of just about all of the underlying funds within the Funds pool was 
strong, although CTC was by far the biggest contributor. The 
Unquoted pool returned 19.2% over the year, with pleasing 
performances from two of our newer investments, Park Holidays 
and Latshaw Group. The Quoted pool produced a more modest 
return of 3.5%, following two consecutive years of over 20%, and 
was particularly affected by reductions in value of two of its larger 
holdings, Bristow Group and Weir, whose share prices were 
impacted by the falling oil price. The Income & Growth pool made 
a significant contribution to Caledonia’s income account, yielding 
4.3% net, as well as being on target for its capital return.
Pool
Value 
2014 
£m 
Invest- 
ments 
£m 
Disposals 
£m 
Other 
move- 
ments 
£m 
Value 
2015 
£m 
Income 
£m 
Return 
% 
Quoted 497.8 80.5 (136.1) 5.5 447.7 11.4 3.5 
Unquoted 568.3 4.9 (109.0) 46.1 510.3 23.1 19.2 
Funds 204.4 104.0 (75.0) 94.3 327.7 3.6 45.2 
Income & 
Growth 189.6 51.3 (51.6) 12.8 202.1 8.7 11.4 
Portfolio 1,460.1 240.7 (371.7) 158.7 1,487.8 46.8 16.8 
Other (14.5) 139.1   
Net assets 1,445.6 1,626.9  14.2 
The Quoted pool allocation at 28% has reduced to below its 
strategic range of 35-50% of the portfolio. This is a consequence 
of both top-slicing and exiting non-core investments to take 
advantage of high valuations and discipline in waiting for some 
of our identified new investment opportunities to come with our 
target price ranges. The Income & Growth pool at 13% also remains 
slightly below its strategic allocation of 15-20% of net assets. 
Again, we have resisted the temptation to rush into what has been 
a popular and hence expensive sector of the market of late. 
See page 7 for details of portfolio allocation.
Overview of pool performance
Quoted (£448m, 28% of net assets)
We invest in companies with established business models, strong 
balance sheets and good returns on capital over the long term.
The Quoted pool produced a total return of 3.5% for the year. 
This followed two years of strong growth (25% and 21% in 2013 
and 2014 respectively), during which time the portfolio has 
continued to evolve in line with the strategy laid out in 2010. The 
companies within the pool now reflect the characteristics outlined 
above with only a few exceptions. We have added companies such 
as Jardine Matheson, Rolls-Royce, Microsoft, Atlas Copco, Oracle 
and Spirax Sarco, to long established holdings such as Bristow 
Group, LondonMetric Property, Close Brothers and AG Barr. Post the 
year end, we halved the holding in Avanti Communications to reflect 
the additional risk taken onto its balance sheet by a high yield bond 
issue in 2014. The Quoted pool team has a deeply researched list of 
target companies that it monitors closely, although we are unwilling 
to invest at current pricing levels. 
Of particular note was the sale of our entire holding in Dewan 
Housing Finance in India, banking a healthy profit on total sale 
proceeds of £52m. We top-sliced our holdings in Close Brothers 
and Quintain Estates, following strong share price performance, 
and exited our holdings in both Petroceltic International and 
Urban&Civic following mergers, as these were no longer core to the 
Quoted pool strategy. We added substantially to our initial holding 
in Rolls-Royce and established new holdings in Microsoft and Oracle, 
all of which have strong business models that produce compound 
investment returns over time. Rolls-Royce, in particular, is a business 
best viewed over the long term and we took advantage of some 
short term adverse sentiment in the market to build a position 
of £23m.
Unquoted (£510m, 31% of net assets)
We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and where our 
balance sheet is able to provide a long term perspective. We invest 
in both majority and minority positions.
The Unquoted pool returned 19.2% for the year under review, 
including £23m of income. We are careful to structure deals 
which allow a good flow of dividends back to shareholders, which 
necessarily and prudently means that we utilise relatively low levels 
of bank debt. We have an annual total return target of 14% for the 
Unquoted pool, and given a yield target of 5%, the capital growth 
requirement is not overly demanding. This, in turn, means that 
we do not have to invest in more risky companies to achieve 
our returns.
We sold our holding in Oval, the insurance broker, on 1 April 2014 
to Arthur J Gallagher, receiving £70m, a 2x return on invested 
capital, although we had already taken the uplift in valuation in 
the previous year’s results. Brookshire sold a portfolio of property 
assets, profiting from the narrowing of yields in the sector. In 
addition, Latshaw Group, a group of five US engineering companies 
in which we invested in 2012, sold one of its businesses and 
distributed to us almost the entire cost of our original investment. 
Pleasingly, strong profits growth at Park Holidays, a UK based 
operator of caravan parks, and TGE Marine, a German LNG 
engineering business, have pushed their valuations significantly 
higher.
The Unquoted team pursued several potential transactions that 
evolved from our deal pipeline during the year, but we were unable 
to secure any of the businesses at prices with which we were 
comfortable. The private equity market has plentiful availability of 
debt at present and is prepared to pay multiples of profit that leave 
little headroom for the unexpected to happen. We will maintain our 
discipline and continue to find opportunities where the fit with 
Caledonia and our values outweighs pure pricing considerations. 5
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
Funds (£328m, 20% of net assets)
We invest in both private equity and quoted market funds, with an 
emphasis on providing exposure to areas of the world where we are 
less willing to invest directly.
The Funds pool return of 45.2% was principally attributable to the 
successful flotation of JD.com, which is a key constituent of Capital 
Today China, a private equity fund launched in 2006 with Caledonia 
as a cornerstone investor. As a result, the fund is our largest single 
investment, being valued at the year end at £103.6m, even after 
distributing £15.2m of cash during the year. However, strong gains 
were also made from the rest of Funds pool, in particular from the 
Asian portfolio of quoted market funds. Excluding the exceptional 
performance within Capital Today China, the Funds pool return was 
15.6% over the year. New investments were made during the year 
in four funds specialising in Asian listed equities at a cost of £60.9m, 
taking our overall exposure to £81.6m. 
Income & Growth (£202m, 13% of net assets)
The pool holds interests in 36 international listed businesses, which 
provide a reliable and growing dividend. Cash flow returns to 
shareholders are a priority for the companies in which we invest.
The Income & Growth pool exceeded its 10% total return 
requirement, returning 11.4% for the year. The pool invests in global 
listed companies that have a higher than average dividend yield. This 
has been a popular area in which to invest over the past few years, 
as central banks have reduced interest rates. Whilst past returns 
have been healthy, these sorts of companies are now more highly 
rated, which makes the task of producing our required level of total 
return more challenging, although we can counter this by running a 
more concentrated portfolio without increasing our risk or volatility. 
We are pleased to welcome Jonathan Greig as the manager of the 
pool, who joined us in January to succeed Stephen Mitchell who had 
managed the pool since its inception in 2011. Holdings within the 
pool include companies such as Pfizer, Novartis, General Electric, 
Zurich Insurance and Daimler, which fit well with our approach.
Share buy-backs and discount
The discount of Caledonia’s shares to its underlying net asset value 
has ranged between 12% and 26% during the year. This provided 
opportunities to buy back shares for cancellation, thereby producing 
a permanent benefit for all shareholders. During the year, the 
discount has mostly been toward the lower end of the range and 
we bought back £0.6m of shares. We will ask for the necessary 
shareholder approvals at the annual general meeting to be able 
to continue with these buy-backs for a further year, albeit within 
the constraints of the annual waiver that we seek under the 
requirements of the Takeover Code.
Dividend
The board is recommending to shareholders a final dividend of 
36.8p, giving a total dividend for the year of 50.6p, an increase of 
3.1% on the previous year. This would represent the forty-eighth 
consecutive year of increases in our annual dividend. Only a handful 
of listed companies have achieved such a long and consistent record 
and it demonstrates our long term attitude to investing. Subject to 
approval by shareholders at the annual general meeting to be held 
at Cayzer House on 16 July 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 
6 August 2015. 
Board
As heralded in last year’s annual report, Richard Goblet d’Alviella 
retired from the board in June 2014, with our thanks for the support 
he provided over his nine years as a non-executive director. 
He was replaced by Harold Boël, whose commercial and investment 
expertise gained at Corus and Sofina is already proving insightful.
Charles Allen-Jones also stepped down from the board just before 
year end after 13 years. His immense experience, common sense 
and wisdom will be missed by the company, as he has guided the 
executive management and the board through various challenges 
during his tenure. We are truly grateful for his immense contribution. 
At the same time, we were pleased to welcome David Stewart to the 
board, whose experience, both in the fund management world and 
working for family businesses, is particularly relevant to Caledonia. 
Shonaid Jemmett-Page will also join the board on 1 July 2015 and 
her experience at KPMG, Unilever Asia and CDC Group, as well as 
from her current non-executive portfolio, will be of great benefit 
to us.
Outlook
The European Central Bank has taken over the baton of quantitative 
easing from The Federal Reserve and Bank of England. Interest 
rates in developed economies are being held at artificially low 
rates, in some cases the quite extraordinary situation exists where 
customers are charged for leaving money on deposit, and it looks as 
though they will stay low for quite some time yet. The combination 
of these two policies drove asset prices up, bond yields to new lows 
and stock markets to new highs. Strong currency movements are 
also a side effect of such policies. Corporate profits, and in particular 
margins, remain healthy and the economies of both the US and UK 
seem to be on a steady, if unspectacular, growth trajectory. Asia is 
more difficult to assess, which is reflected in markets which are 
more reasonably priced.
Although the UK General Election is now behind us, we still face 
uncertain times with a US presidential election due next year. We 
believe that our portfolio and conservative cash position leave us 
well placed however challenging market conditions may be. We are 
invested in high quality businesses which have good prospects for 
the medium to long term. Our strategy is delivering performance 
for shareholders at an appropriate level and we are confident that 
the portfolio is well positioned for the future.
Rod Kent Will Wyatt
Chairman  Chief Executive
