 04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors’ report
This time last year we expressed a cautious stance to investment, 
and the last 12 months have shown this to be right. We have seen
considerable turbulence in the markets and major falls in many 
asset values. Over the 12 months ended 31 March 2008, the FTSE 
All-Share index fell by 10.9%. Against this backdrop the much smaller
fall in our own diluted net asset value (‘NAV’) per share of 4.6%,
although disappointing in absolute terms, nonetheless represented
outperformance of 6.3% against the FTSE All-Share index and has
demonstrated the resilience of our business model in these conditions.
Our aim is to ensure that over rolling five year periods our total
shareholder return consistently outperforms the FTSE All-Share 
T otal Return index, as well as producing positive absolute returns. 
T o achieve that aim, we put our efforts into ensuring that our NAV 
per share consistently outperforms the FTSE All-Share index over 
the medium term. Although we cannot always expect in the shorter 
term period of one year to meet this objective, nonetheless it should
be noted that for each of the last five years – since we converted 
to investment trust status and have been measuring NAV on a
consistent basis – our NAV per share has outperformed the FTSE 
All-Share index as demonstrated in the charts below. These indicate
that our long term approach to investment is working to produce 
for our shareholders the results to which we aspire, and has been
delivering in both upturns and downturns in the market. 
Significant changes in value
The falls in market prices of equities in the financial and property
sectors have been particularly severe and, over the 12 months, 
the FTSE Financial sector as a whole fell by 23.6%, while the Real
Estate sector fell by 35.3%. Not surprisingly, the values of a number 
of our investments in these sectors also fell.
Our investment in Close Brothers fell in value by over £70m. In
the short term its business was adversely affected by the unwelcome
threat of a hostile bid (which never materialised) by the much smaller
Cenkos Securities. Nonetheless, we believe Close Brothers is now
particularly well positioned for present market conditions and we
have in fact taken advantage of the low share price to invest a further
£7.3m during March 2008 as we believe there should be significant
potential for value creation over the medium term.
Our investment in Quintain Estates produced the other
substantial fall in value with a diminution of £53.4m. Its share price
fall over the year was also accentuated by the confirmation from an
unwelcome bidder that its potential offer would not proceed.
Notwithstanding the malaise in the property sector , we consider
Quintain Estates, with its relatively low level of debt and special
development situations in Wembley and Greenwich, also to be well
positioned for value creation over the longer term.
Other significant falls in value within these sectors included
Polar Capital (down £16.9m), T errace Hill (down £12.6m) and
Rathbone Brothers (down £12.0m). In all cases we believe these 
to be well run, strong companies, and are confident that they will
show good gains in value over the medium term.
Substantially offsetting the various falls in value have been 
a number of notable gains in value including:
• Oval (£27.2m gain), our unquoted UK insurance broking
investment, which has been successfully acquiring and
consolidating smaller broking businesses and thereby 
significantly increasing profitability.
Chief Executive’s
report
Outperformance of diluted NAV per share 
against the FTSE All-Share index over the year
Invested in the year , including 
£48m in new opportunities
6.3%
£204m
Our business philosophy, which centres around being 
a long term supportive and constructively involved shareholder , 
does mean that we do not normally liquidate our shareholdings 
in good companies just because of anticipated downturns in the
market as a whole. Instead, during the last financial year and in order
to provide some downside protection of the value of our portfolio 
in a falling market, we invested, through a subsidiary, a total of £12m
in FTSE 250 put options. The value of these put options had of course
substantially grown by the end of the period as a result of both 
falls in the index and increased volatility and this increase (of £7.6m
pre-tax) has helped in part to offset the falls in value of some of 
our investments.
Diluted NAV per share over five years
Diluted NAV per share
FTSE All-Share (rebased)
2400
p
2000
1600
800
1200
2003 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004
Diluted NAV per share to FTSE All-Share outperformance
years ended at 31 March
2008
6.3%
2007
2.8%
2006
9.5%
2005
9.2%
2004
11.4% Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 05 Directors’ report
Costs
We continued to keep a tight rein on costs, believing that every
pound spent is a pound less of our shareholders’ net assets. Although
our investment style is considerably more hands-on than most
investment trusts, it is our continuing aim to contain our pre-tax total
expense ratio (‘TER’) around the 1% level, and to keep it significantly
below the average for the investment trust industry as a whole. 
Our pre-tax TER for the year was 1.0%, which is significantly
below the pre-tax weighted investment trust industry average of
1.4%. Moreover , given that our expenses contain all performance
payments to executives, including bonus and share-based payments,
this compares very favourably indeed with the private equity
industry, which also involves a ‘hands-on’ investment style, but 
which industry is much shorter term than Caledonia and one where
investors typically have to pay fees of both 2% per annum of assets
managed and 20% of the gains made.
Outlook
The immediate economic outlook is not encouraging. In the US,
consumer debt, including mortgages, has increased over the last
seven years from around 65% of annual GDP to 94% – it is a similar
picture in the UK with the ratio increasing from 70% to just over 100%.
The UK economy is now starting to feel the adverse effects of this
excessive binge-borrowing. Recession is a real possibility. However ,
we believe we are well positioned through being invested and
involved in sound businesses that we understand well and where
usually we have board participation.
As the economic situation further unfolds, we expect a number
of particularly good investment opportunities to arise and may well
put in place term bank facilities for up to £100m.
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
• TGE Marine (£15.5m gain), our formerly unquoted marine gas
engineering investment headquartered in Bonn, which is enjoying
strong revenue and profitability growth. Since our financial year
end, this business has listed on the AIM market leading to further
substantial value gains.
• Bristow Group (£16.2m gain), the US quoted helicopter operating
company, which is benefiting from the buoyant conditions in the 
oil and gas industry.
• Cobepa (£12.1m gain), the unquoted Brussels based private equity
investment company.
• Marketform (£10.5m gain), where we realised our investment 
in this UK unquoted insurance company through a trade sale.
Investment activity
The year was another one of busy activity. Our Investment
Committee analysed 104 new investment opportunities (which
compares with 130 the previous year) but, as a result of our cautious
stance, only made five new investments totalling £48m (versus 14
totalling £128m in the previous year). We were however more active
in follow-on situations where we have been able to benefit from falls
in market prices providing good buying opportunities in businesses
we know well. We thus invested a further £144m in follow-on
business investments and, as mentioned above, £12m in FTSE 250
put options, making a total investment of £204m – considerably
lower than the £290m we had invested in the previous year . 
More information on investments is given in the business 
review on page 13. It is worth noting that as at 31 March 2008 the
total value of our Indian investments (including two UK quoted
entities that focus exclusively on India) was £88m, representing 7.0%
of shareholders’ funds – up from 5.4% at the previous year end, and
reflecting both further investment and growth in value.
Much effort is spent on being actively and constructively
involved with the managements of our investee companies to 
help create long term value. It is our normal policy for Caledonia
executives to join the board of an investee company where we have 
a significant stake and at the year end we had our executives on the
boards of 26 of our top 30 investments. 
Realisations totalled £114m, substantially down on the £317m
realised during the previous year . The largest was the sale for £21m 
of our 27% stake in Marketform, an unquoted insurance company,
which represented a 100% uplift in the value of this investment as 
at 31 March 2007. More information on realisations is given on 
page 13 in the business review. 
During the year , we purchased into treasury 277,229 of our
shares at a total cost of £5.6m. 
We started the year with around £109m of liquidity. 
Essentially as a result of the above activity this reduced to about
£24m at 31 March 2008.
“Another year of busy activity ,
particularly in our active and
constructive involvement 
with investee companies.”
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
