 08 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006
Tim 
Ingram
Chief Executive’s
statement
Building on 
our competitive
advantage
2005/06 has again been a good year for
Caledonia’s shareholders, with NAV per
share increasing by 33.6% to 2061p per
share at 31 March 2006. This is 9.6% more
than the increase in the FTSE All-Share index
over the same period. The growth of NAV
per share compared to the FTSE All-Share
index over the years since we converted 
to investment trust status is shown in the
graph on page 9.
Investment activity
The last year has seen strong increases
generally in share prices across the globe.
This has inevitably meant that it has become
an easier market in which to achieve
realisations and it has become more difficult
to find new investments at an entry price
which we believe presents sufficient value
creation potential for our own shareholders:
however, our distinctive style does still
mean that we are continuing to find some
new opportunities at acceptable prices,
although recently this is tending more to 
be in the unquoted segment.
During the course of our financial year
our investment committee evaluated
around 125 potential new investment
opportunities. These were short listed down
to a more manageable number which were
then intensely evaluated, and from which
we made eight new investments for a total
amount of £70m. In addition, we invested 
a further £85m as follow-on funding in
existing investments, making a total of
£155m of investment during the year. 
More detail on investments is included in
table 3 on page 18. This includes a further
£34.5m invested in India (including the UK
listed India Capital Growth Fund) bringing
the total value of Indian investments to
around £48m at 31 March 2006.
We have again been actively and
constructively involved with all our investee
companies, which we believe continues to
aid our outperformance. It is our normal
policy for a Caledonia investment executive
to join the board of the investee company 
as a non-executive director and considerable
time is spent in working supportively 
with management to achieve long-term
shareholder value creation. During the 
year, we have had a Caledonia executive 
as a director on the board (or appropriate
committee) of 17 of our top 20 investments.
Whether we have representation on the
board or not, efforts are made to influence
constructively the operations and strategy 
of each investee company.
Although we are a long term investor,
we believe there comes a time when it is
appropriate for us to disinvest or partially
sell down from an investment. In addition,
there can be redemptions within funds in Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 09
which we have invested, which also give 
rise to capital flows back to Caledonia. 
With conditions in the last year having been
so favourable for realisations, full and partial
disinvestments totalled over £307m during
the year, which was significantly up on the
previous year’s figure of £218m. These
realisations are listed in table 4 on page 19.
As mentioned in the Chairman’s
statement, Kerzner International, the
resorts owner and operator in which we
have an 8% stake, is recommending to its
shareholders acceptance of a bid at $81 per
share by a management-led investor group.
If the offer is implemented, we will receive
$237m and have put in place forward
foreign exchange contracts to hedge this.
As a result of the above activity, our net
liquid funds increased to £180m at 31 March
2006, and we are proposing an optional
return of funds of approximately £128m by
way of an elective special dividend.
Costs
Keeping the overhead costs down is 
an important objective for us as every
pound of costs is a pound reduction in our
shareholders’ net assets. Nonetheless, it is
vital that we have sufficient resources to be
able to manage our portfolio effectively in 
a hands-on fashion while also attracting 
and evaluating a good deal flow of new
opportunities. We believe that being a 
self-managed investment trust company,
with direct control over costs significantly
helps this objective. Our total overhead
costs for the year were about 0.9% of our
net assets, which compares favourably
against a pre tax weighted investment trust
industry average of 1.4%.
Outlook
It is, to say the least, very difficult to 
predict in advance when markets are to
reach their zenith in the cycle. Recent events
suggest that this may now be happening. 
At Caledonia, we do not deliberately take
market positions. However, we are careful
not to overpay for new investments and,
notwithstanding the proposed elective
special dividend, our present expectations,
on the assumption that the bid for Kerzner
International completes, are that we are
likely still to be holding liquidity on our
balance sheet at the end of the current
financial year.
By carefully selecting the right
opportunities where there are strong
management teams, by continuing our
active involvement in investee companies
and through disinvesting when appropriate,
we seek to maintain our distinctive
performance.
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
Net asset value per share
FTSE All-Share (rebased)
Net asset value per share since investment trust conversion
2100
p
2003 2004 2005 2006
1800
1500
1200
900
