 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 17
Caledonia’s investment style and
philosophy differentiates us from 
both mainstream equity investors 
and traditional fund managers. 
We use our capital, allied to our
experience and reputation, to back
and support management teams 
to develop their businesses, whether
as listed or private companies. This
flexible approach, together with our
long term investment horizon and
supportive stance, are the hallmarks
of Caledonia and, as the following
business highlights of the year
illustrate, can generate good returns
and create interesting investment
opportunities.
Kerzner International
The year started with the announcement, in April, of a management-
led buyout of Kerzner International, the worldwide hotel and casino
operator in which we held a residual 8% stake. Our original
investment was made in 1994, when we backed Sol Kerzner, the
founder of Sun International, in his acquisition and development of
Paradise Island in the Caribbean as a world class destination resort.
Sun International was listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1996
and later changed its name to Kerzner International. Throughout our
period of ownership we were represented on the board. We were
therefore able to play a pivotal role in the evaluation and eventual
success of the MBO approach and work with the various parties to
ensure a realisation of our second biggest investment at an attractive
valuation of £131m thus realising over the years some £216m from 
a gross investment of £43m. This brought a long and productive
association with Sol Kerzner, the founder, to a fruitful conclusion.
Business highlights 18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
Business review
Business highlights
Ermitage TGE Gas Engineering
In May, we completed the management buyout of TGE Gas
Engineering, a German based turn-key engineering business,
investing £8.4m for a 49.9% stake. The business was acquired from
Tractebel Engineering, part of the Suez Group, to whom it had
become non-core. We were attracted by the quality of the
management team, who have spent twenty years together building
the business, and by the growth prospects for energy infrastructure
investment that will drive TGE’s performance. Our focus on
relationships, long term perspective and experience with mid-size
companies were key attractions of Caledonia to both management
and the vendor. Since investment we have provided a further £10.8m
to support the growth of the business.
In May, we invested £22.1m for a 60% stake in Ermitage, a 
well-established Jersey-based hedge fund management business.
Ermitage had been put up for sale by its South African parent 
but, with an existing agreed sale stalled, we were able to offer 
the vendors an alternative transaction. This was achieved through
quickly establishing a good rapport with the management who
recognised our credentials and track record in backing successful
asset managers. We have already helped the development of the
business, which manages $2.8bn, through providing additional
capital to invest in funds managed by Ermitage.
Since making our investment, Ermitage has been successful 
in winning a $120m contract from one of the world’s largest 
pension funds.
Caledonia’s approach and reputation delivers
results to both vendors and management teams
through investment in ‘people businesses’. Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 19
Celerant Incisive Media
Another management-led buyout, which also completed in May,
was our acquisition of a 49% stake in Celerant Consulting at a total
cost of £15.9m. Celerant is a global management consulting
business which specialises in delivering operational efficiencies 
and savings to its worldwide clients, especially in the chemical and
energy sectors. Celerant was sold as a non-core asset by Novell, a
US listed software services group, which was keen to ensure that
the transaction proceeded at an acceptable price but with a high
degree of certainty. Caledonia was attractive to the management 
as a long term partner and we were able to reassure Novell that we
could complete the transaction with certainty at the agreed price.
In December, Incisive Media plc, a UK listed business publisher, 
was taken private through a management buyout financed by 
Apax Partners. Having first invested in Incisive Media in April 2004,
we were keen to continue to back the management team as we
shared their view that it would be better to grow the business
through acquisitions as a private equity backed company with the
benefit of higher gearing. We therefore worked with the company,
management and the bidder, together with their advisers, to ensure
that all Incisive Media shareholders were offered an opportunity 
to roll over their investment through a share alternative offered 
by the acquiring vehicle. We are delighted to continue, alongside
Apax and management, as an investor in Incisive Media with board
representation and look forward to the opportunity to put more
capital to work in the business as it makes further acquisitions.
Two such acquisitions have already been completed since December.
Caledonia can invest in both listed and private
companies but above all backs management to
grow their businesses. Our longer term view
means that it is not necessary to promote an
IPO, trade sale or public to private transaction as
an ‘exit’ before this optimises shareholder value.
