 Our financial year ended 31 March 2007 saw net asset value (‘NAV’)
per share increase by 10.8% which was just over 3% ahead of the
FTSE All-Share index over the year. The graph below compares our
NAV per share performance against the FTSE All-Share index since
our conversion to investment trust status on 1 April 2003.
Although for the 12 months ended 31 March 2007 our NAV per
share growth was ahead of the market, it is disappointing to note
that, as a result of our discount widening, our share price increase
of 4.3% (from 1980p to 2066p) was below the FTSE All-Share index
growth of 7.7% for this 12 month period.
Significant changes in value
Our 10.8% NAV per share increase was significantly aided by four
investments, each of which provided total return gains (including
the value of dividends and distributions) of more than £10m.
These were:
Quintain Estates & Development (quoted) + £22.1m
Sterling Industries (unquoted) + £21.8m
Polar Capital (quoted on 6 Feb 2007) + £11.8m
Terrace Hill (quoted) + £11.1m
No individual investments had value losses of more than £10m, but
in two cases there were losses in value of over £5m:
Alok Industries (quoted) – £6.0m
Tribal Group (quoted) – £5.0m
However, in both of the above two holdings, their share prices have
improved markedly since 31 March 2007.
In addition, the fall in value of the US dollar compared with sterling
over the period of 13.1% had an adverse effect on NAV. Although
we had hedged our Kerzner International exposure, we had not
hedged our other US dollar denominated investments, and we
estimate that the foreign exchange effect on these US dollar
investments reduced NAV by around £7m.
Investment activity
It has been an active investment year for us, both for investments
made and for realisations.
As a result of our style as long term supportive and
constructively involved investors, we are approached with many
opportunities not always offered to others. During the financial
year, our investment management committee evaluated 130 new
investment opportunities. We made 14 new investments for a total
amount of around £128m – more than half of this in unquoted
companies. In addition, a further £162m was made in follow-on
investments, giving a total investment of £290m for the year. This 
is a significant increase on the £155m we invested in the previous
year. More information on these is given in the business review 
on page 13.
With our increased knowledge of the market in India we have
been carefully increasing our exposure to businesses trading in that
rapidly expanding area. As at 31 March 2007 the total value of our
Indian investments (including two UK listed entities that focus on
India) was £71.8m – representing 5.4% of shareholders’ funds.
We continue to be actively and constructively involved with our
investee companies, which we believe materially aids performance.
It is our normal policy for a Caledonia executive to join the board 
of an investee company, and during the year we have had our
executives on the boards of 18 of our top 20 investments.
Realisations this year totalled £317m, a similar level to the
previous year. By far the largest was the buyout by a
management-led investor group of Kerzner International, the
resorts owner and operator in which we had an 8% stake. The
$237m received by us in September had been hedged at an average
of $1.81 to the pound, resulting in an overall realisation of £131m,
including a £6m benefit from the hedge. More information on our
realisations is given on page 14 in the business review.
We started the year with £180m of cash and in view of our
liquidity level, we believed it to be in shareholders’ interests to offer
an elective special dividend with an associated share cancellation.
All such shareholder elections, including those for oversubscription,
were met in full. As a consequence, £102.9m was paid out and
shares in issue reduced by about 5.4m to around 58.7m.
As a result of the above investment activity and the elective
special dividend, our liquidity slightly reduced during the year 
and was £109m at 31 March 2007.
900
1,300
1,700
2,100
2,500
Net asset value per share 
since investment trust conversion
NAV per share
FTSE All-Share
2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001
p
04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
Chief Executive’s statement
£290m
Invested in the year, including
£128m in new opportunities
£31 7m
Realised in the year, including £131m for
our stake in Kerzner International Costs
Keeping overhead costs down is an important objective for us as
every pound of cost is a pound reduction in our shareholders’ net
assets. Nonetheless, it is vital that we have sufficient resources to 
be able to manage our portfolio effectively in a hands-on fashion,
while also attracting and evaluating a strong deal flow. We believe
that being a self-managed investment trust company, with direct
control over costs, significantly helps this objective. Our pre-tax
total expenses ratio was 0.8%, which compares favourably against 
a pre-tax weighted investment trust industry average of 1.4%.
Discount
As mentioned above, we are very conscious that the widening of
the discount of our share price to net asset value has a deleterious
effect on our share price performance.
We firmly believe that we should continue to concentrate our
efforts on striving to ensure that NAV per share continues to
outperform the market. This is the best way over the medium and
long term of meeting our financial aims of total shareholder return
outperformance. One of the actions that aids our NAV per share
performance is, when the opportunity arises, to buy our own shares
into treasury when there is a significant discount. This we have
done in a small way during March when 40,000 shares were bought
in at an average price of 1976p. In order that such opportunities
can also be exploited to the benefit of our shareholders during the
close period from our year end to the announcement of our results,
we have given, within certain pre-set parameters, irrevocable
instructions to our brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove, to purchase shares
on our behalf. On 11 May 2007, 30,000 shares were thereby
purchased at a price of 2130p.
In addition to the above, we also believe that continuing 
to improve the awareness of Caledonia amongst retail investors
should prove beneficial. To this end, we have programmes in 
place to present the company to private client stockbrokers 
and leading IFAs.
Outlook
Although at the time of writing economies around the world still
seem to be buoyant and we continue to see a healthy flow of
investment opportunities, we remain conservative in our approach
and are particularly careful not to overpay for new investments.
Economic cycles will continue and we believe it is in our
shareholders’ interests for us to remain cautious in our investment
policies. We have liquidity on our balance sheet and would expect
to remain ungeared with continuing liquidity at the end of the
current financial year.
By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are
strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement
in investee companies and by being careful to avoid over-
exuberance, we seek to maintain our distinctive outperformance.
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 05
“We seek to maintain our
distinctive outperformance.”
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
