 2   Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairman’s statement
“ I am conident that the initiatives 
already undertaken by our 
management will enable Caledonia to 
perform well. Those moves, coupled 
with the higher intrinsic value than 
current market prices of several of our 
larger quoted investments, will deliver 
our shareholders a good return over 
the longer term.”
James Loudon Chairman
Results
Caledonia’s net asset value per share on a total return 
basis has underperformed the FTSE All-Share by 8.4% 
over the past 12 months and by 14.1% over the past ive 
years. With a concentrated and long term portfolio such  
as ours, deviation in our performance from the index  
over any one year is not surprising. However, the 
underperformance over ive years is disappointing.  
Our total shareholder return performance has also been 
signiicantly affected by the widening of our share price 
discount to net asset value. We have increasingly bought in 
our own shares as the discount has widened, as we believe 
that this represents good value for our shareholders, but 
ultimately we believe it will be investment performance, 
rather than share buy-backs, which will cause our 
discount to narrow. The extent of our buy-backs is limited 
by the shareholding of the Cayzer concert party.
The future outlook is much more positive. One of the 
cornerstones of the strategy set out in last year’s annual 
report was to increase, without undermining our core 
objective of long term capital growth, the yield lowing 
from our portfolio, in order to enable us in turn to  
enhance the income element of the total return for our 
shareholders. The re-shaping of our portfolio over the  
past year has laid the foundation to achieve this and the 
board’s conidence in a steadily rising trend in income 
over the next few years has enabled it to make the 
recommendation for a signiicant increase in the inal 
dividend as set out below.
In addition, I am pleased to report that, within Caledonia’s 
established investment model, the other strategic 
initiatives highlighted in last year’s annual report are 
starting to bear fruit, including a reined investment 
process, improved deal low, attractive new investments 
and the sale of non-core and subscale investments. These 
are described in more detail in the Chief Executive’s report.
Dividend
In view of its conidence in the future beneits of the 
strategic initiatives being undertaken, and in particular  
in relation to Caledonia’s foreseeable income prospects, 
the board has proposed raising the inal dividend  
by 20.0% from 26.0p to 31.2p per share, payable on  
9 August 2012. The total dividend for the year will 
therefore amount to 42.9p per share, an increase of  
15.6% over the previous year.
The board’s objective is to continue with a higher rate of 
increase in the dividend as income from the portfolio 
grows. Once we have reached a new base level, we intend 
to pursue a progressive dividend policy bearing in mind 
our record of increasing dividends every year for the last 
45 years, but without detracting from our fundamental 
aim of providing capital growth. Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012    3
Overview
Staff
As in past years, I thank all the members of Caledonia’s 
management team for their diligent contribution to 
Caledonia’s business and also all of our staff for their 
dedicated work throughout the year.
Outlook
Caledonia’s stated strategy is being successfully 
implemented by our management team. By the nature of 
our business and our longer term attitude to investment, 
this is a continuing process. For example, the divestment 
of non-core assets that are both subscale and relatively 
illiquid, together with the subsequent redeployment of the 
capital realised at attractive valuations, requires patience. 
The current economic climate and outlook, especially in 
Western economies, is not an easy backcloth against 
which to achieve these strategic shifts.
I am conident that the initiatives already undertaken by 
our management will enable Caledonia to perform well. 
Those moves, coupled with the higher intrinsic value than 
current market prices of several of our larger quoted 
investments, will deliver our shareholders a good return 
over the longer term.
James Loudon  
Chairman
Board
In my statement in last year’s annual report, I advised  
that the board intended to undertake a process of gradual 
refreshment and in September 2011 we were pleased  
to announce the appointments of Rod Kent and Robert 
Woods as additional independent non-executive directors. 
John May retired as an executive director at the half-year, 
with our grateful thanks for his contribution to 
Caledonia’s affairs over his eight years on the board.
I myself have served on the board for nearly 17 years,  
the last three and a half of which as Chairman following 
Peter Buckley’s sudden death in December 2008.  
Having overseen the transition of Chief Executive from 
Tim Ingram to Will Wyatt and the adoption of a revised 
strategy, I feel that it is an appropriate time for me to 
relinquish the Chairmanship and to step down from the 
board, which I propose to do at the conclusion of the  
AGM in July. The board has decided to appoint Rod Kent  
as my successor, a choice with which I am delighted. 
Having been Managing Director for many years and 
Chairman of Close Brothers from 2006 to 2008, as well  
as chairman or a non-executive director of a number of 
other major companies during his career, Rod brings a 
wealth of experience to Caledonia and I wish him all the 
very best for the future.
Charles Cayzer will be succeeding Michael Wyatt as 
Chairman of the Cayzer Trust Company (‘CTCo’) when 
Michael retires at CTCo’s AGM in December 2012. Charles 
will then retire as an executive director of Caledonia,  
but will remain on the board as a non-executive director. 
He will have been an executive director for 27 years, 
having been appointed in 1985, and he has given valuable 
service to the company over all those years. As Chairman 
of CTCo, which holds 34.2% of Caledonia’s shares, together 
with other interests, he will be taking a leading role  
in the Cayzer family’s affairs. We are delighted that 
Caledonia will also beneit from his continued 
membership of its board.
Mark Davies, who has been a non-executive director of 
Caledonia since 2002, has also signalled his wish to retire 
from the board before the end of this calendar year. 
However, as this is my last statement as Chairman, I would 
personally like to thank Mark enormously on behalf of 
shareholders for his wise counsel over the past decade, 
which will be very much missed.
