 Results
Our fourth year as an investment trust has again seen the growth in
our net asset value per share outpace that of the FTSE All-Share
index, although the 11% uplift and 3% outperformance were lower
than the 34% and 10% achieved respectively last year. Nonetheless
our long established strategy of acquiring significant, but usually
minority, stakes in promising listed and unlisted companies and
working with proven managements to add shareholder value over
the longer term has enabled us to continue to record
outperformance against our benchmark FTSE All-Share Total Return
index over five and ten years of 124% and 194% respectively.
Share price and discount
Our share price rose by 4% over the year from 1980 pence to 
2066 pence with the increase muted by a widening of the share
price discount from less than 4% to just over 9% notwithstanding
the 11% increase in underlying net asset value per share. I have
cautioned in past years that it would prove challenging to continue
to reduce the share price discount and that our share price is not
ultimately within our control. The year just past has borne this out.
However we are mindful that a wider share price discount affects
shareholder value and we have used our authority to buy in our 
own shares when it was in the interest of our shareholders for us 
to do so, as detailed in the Chief Executive’s statement.
Forty year dividend record
We are pleased to propose an increase of 5.4% in the final dividend
to 21.6 pence per share from 20.5 pence last time, making a total
dividend for the full year of 31.1 pence representing a 5.1% increase
over last year and costing £18m. This marks a forty year record of
successive annual dividend increases over which period we calculate
that our annual dividends per share have increased by a factor of
over 45 times as against a factor of 12 times for inflation. Such
dividends will have aggregated to an equivalent of £5.36 per share
and have been augmented by special dividends paid in 1997 and
2000 totalling £1 per share. There have also been opportunities for
shareholders to opt for two elective special dividends. It is also of
interest that forty years ago our equivalent share price was 15p.
Elective special dividend
In our interim statement I reported that in June 2006 we offered
shareholders the option of participating in a return of funds of up to
£128m by way of an elective special dividend on a broadly one for
ten basis, with the shares so elected being cancelled for nil
consideration through a Court approved reduction of capital. The
dividend was struck at a 3% discount to the underlying NAV per
share on the designated date and the resultant dividend of
1902.17 pence per share was taken up on 84.4% of the
6,410,579 shares eligible, resulting in a payout of £102.9m.
Portfolio
Details of the changes in our portfolio are provided in the Chief
Executive’s statement and the further pages which follow. With
prices generally high, we remain selective in our investment activity
but have continued to invest where we see good opportunities at
sensible prices. During the year we invested £290m in new and
follow-on opportunities and realised £317m, the main element of
which was the £131m divestment of our remaining and long
standing investment in Kerzner International in September last year
to a management buyout led by the Kerzner family. This has proved
an excellent investment since we took our initial stake in 1994,
giving a compound annual return of 15% over the period, but we
were all much saddened by the death of Butch Kerzner, the chief
executive and architect of the buyout, who died in a helicopter
accident just after the transaction.
We have continued to increase our investment activity in Asia,
and predominantly in India, where we believe that there are
substantial opportunities for the longer term investor prepared to
develop relationships with management teams, often founding
families, who are familiar with the local business environment.
02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
Chairman’s statement
11%
Net asset value per share increase over the year, compared
with an 8% increase in the FTSE All-Share
124%
Share price total return outperformance against the 
FTSE All-Share Total Return over five years Liquidity
Notwithstanding the £103m return of funds to shareholders
described above, we still held net liquid funds of £109m at the 
year end compared with £180m last year. This is a function of the
underlying dynamic of our investment activity and, given our
concern about the high prices of businesses, is a sensible position
when seeking to achieve an absolute return for shareholders over
the longer term.
Economic and political background
I have habitually made reference to the current economic and
political background as it can have a substantive effect on our
business. Inflation is rising faster than officially acknowledged and
higher interest rates have consequently been introduced.
Government spending has increased sharply for little identifiable
benefit, and has been accompanied by an unwelcome requirement
for higher taxes. It surprises us, therefore, that our economy has
remained stable. Many in the business community are aghast at the
relentless increase in new and costly legislation but seem impotent
to stem the flow. The ‘Burdens Barometer’ for the increase in costs
for business from new legislation since 1998, independently
calculated for the British Chambers of Commerce, has now risen 
to over £55bn, the majority of which is to comply with the whim 
of the unaccountable bureaucracy in Brussels. Our retiring Prime
Minister had promised a referendum if the powers of Brussels were
to be extended through a revised constitution and whilst a
disguised version of this seems an imminent prospect, the
promised referendum is being brushed aside. However this is
entirely consistent with the lack of integrity and growing
incompetence of the present Government and it is difficult to
believe that the forthcoming change of prime minister will herald
the changes which are so urgently needed. It is therefore important
to encourage a credible opposition. It is for this reason that we have
decided to ask our shareholders for permission to enable us to
make a contribution of up to £60,000 to the Conservative Party so
that it can be better equipped to form an alternative government.
To this end it is important to build its resource – especially in
marginal seats – if a change from this high spend and low delivery
Government is to become a reality.
Staff
We rely on a relatively small but dedicated management team who
make judgements on and process our various investments. They do
this against the rising tide of rules and regulations to which I have
already referred and which increasingly burden the corporate
sector. I would like to thank them all on behalf of shareholders for
their diligent and unstinting efforts.
Outlook
After a strong run in the market place, particularly in the mid-cap
sector, there are signs of more volatility. This affects the pricing 
of new opportunities, but our refusal to join auction processes,
coupled with our longer term approach and access to liquidity,
should enable us to take advantage of corrections in the market 
for the longer term benefit of shareholders.
Peter Buckley
Chairman
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 03
“We have continued to increase our
investment activity in Asia.”
Peter Buckley
Chairman
