 Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
39 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
Directors remuneration report
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee ensures 
that remuneration arrangements 
support the strategic aims of the 
business and enable the recruitment, 
motivation and retention of senior 
executives, of the calibre needed 
to manage and grow the company 
successfully.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonia’s directors’ 
remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2015.
Last year, the Remuneration Committee completed a strategic review 
of Caledonia’s executive remuneration framework and engaged with its 
larger shareholders and investor representative bodies on the key 
changes. The revised framework was set out in the remuneration policy 
which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting. 
No changes to this policy are proposed at this year’s annual general 
meeting and the key elements of the policy have been included in this 
year’s directors’ remuneration report for ease of reference.
In this introductory statement, I have set out a summary of the 
implementation of the remuneration policy in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2015 and how we intend to approach remuneration for the 
2016 financial year. Detailed disclosure and explanations of the 
remuneration paid to directors in the year ended 31 March 2015 are 
included in the annual report on directors’ remuneration, which will be 
put to an advisory vote of shareholders at the annual general meeting 
on 16 July 2015.
Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2015
Turning to the year under review, as described in the Chairman’s and 
Chief Executive’s report, Caledonia has delivered a net asset value per 
share total return (‘NAVTR’) of 14.2%, continuing the strong returns 
achieved over the previous two years and extending Caledonia’s record 
of outperformance against the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’) over one, three 
and five years and the FTSE All-Share Total Return index (‘FTSE index’) 
over ten years. The Funds pool, led by Jamie Cayzer-Colvin, was a 
significant contributor to this year’s performance, delivering a total return 
of 45.2% compared with its target of 12.5%. Taking these results into 
account and after assessing the performance of the individual directors 
against the personal objectives set for them at the start of the year and, 
where relevant, pool performance and objectives, the Remuneration 
Committee decided that it was appropriate to award the maximum 
potential bonus of 100% of basic salary to each of the executive directors.
The year to 31 March 2015 also represented the end of the three year 
performance measurement period for awards granted in 2012 under 
the company’s performance share scheme. For these awards, the 
performance targets were that, for two-thirds of the shares comprised in 
an award, Caledonia’s NAVTR had to outperform the FTSE index and, for 
the other third, the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts (all-stocks) Total 
Return index (‘Gilts index’) over the three year measurement period, in 
each case with shares vesting on a graduated basis between 0.5% and 
3.5% outperformance. Both of these targets were comfortably met, with 
Caledonia’s NAVTR outperforming the FTSE index by 17.2% and the Gilts 
index by 29.9% over the three year period. Accordingly, these awards 
have vested in full.
No deferred bonus plan awards were granted in 2012.
Membership and attendance
The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings 
eligible 
to attend 
C H Gregson (Chairman) 6 6 
D C Stewart
1
1 1 
R B Woods 4 6 
C M Allen-Jones
2
5 5 
1.  Mr Stewart was appointed a member of the committee on 17 March 2015.
2.  Mr Allen-Jones retired as a member of the committee on 17 March 2015.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the company’s auditor to report 
to the shareholders on certain parts of the directors’ remuneration 
report and to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report 
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Large and 
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) 
(Amendment) Regulations 2013. The parts of the annual report on 
directors’ remuneration that have been audited are indicated in that 
report. The annual statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee and the policy on directors’ remuneration are not 
subject to audit. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
40 Annual report 2015 Caledonia Investments plc  
Performance measures for long term incentive awards
Following a further consultation with shareholders and investor 
representative bodies, in November 2014 the Remuneration Committee 
adopted new performance measures for the performance share scheme 
and deferred bonus plan matching shares which are based on the 
annualised absolute returns achieved by Caledonia over three and five 
year periods, in order to align the measures more closely with the 
company’s long term objective of achieving absolute returns over rolling 
ten year periods of between RPI+3% and RPI+6%. For investment 
executives, including Mr Cayzer-Colvin, a substantial proportion of the 
awards will be geared towards the total returns achieved by the pools 
of capital for which they are responsible. Further details of these new 
performance measures and how they will operate for executive directors 
are set out in the summary of performance measures and targets in the 
notes to the remuneration policy table on pages 43 and 44.
Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2016
Looking ahead to the 2016 financial year, basic salaries of executive 
directors have been increased with effect from 1 April 2015 by 1.0%, 
broadly in line with inflation, which was the same as the standard increase 
given to the company’s senior executives, although other grades of staff 
received a higher increase of 3.0%. The Chairman’s and the non-executive 
directors’ fees are reviewed on a triennial basis and, since these were last 
increased in April 2014, they have not been changed. 
We plan to make performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan 
awards following the release of our 2015 full year results announcement 
in line with our normal grant cycle. These will be subject to the 
performance measures adopted in November 2014, as outlined above.
The company performance related element of the annual bonus scheme 
is determined by reference to the relative performance of the company’s 
NAVTR to RPI over the year, with a 10% pay-out if NAVTR matches RPI, 
rising to a 100% pay-out if outperformance of 7% or more is achieved. 
In view of the current low level of RPI, the Remuneration Committee has 
decided that, for bonus awards for the 2016 and subsequent financial 
years, the RPI comparator should be 3%, which is broadly in line with 
the historic long term average, or actual RPI if higher.
Malus and clawback
Last year, provisions were introduced into Caledonia’s performance 
share scheme and deferred bonus plan which give the Remuneration 
Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested awards in the event 
of a material misstatement of the company’s financial results, a 
miscalculation of a participant’s entitlement, misconduct on the part 
of the participant or an event resulting in material loss or reputational 
damage to the company or a member of the group. These are known 
as ‘malus’ provisions.
In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code (‘Code’) 
was issued which included a provision that all performance related 
incentive schemes for executive directors operated by UK listed 
companies should include not only malus provisions, but also 
arrangements to recover amounts of variable remuneration after it has 
been paid (known as ‘clawback’). The Code is not specific as to the period 
of time over which clawback should operate or the circumstances in 
which it should be applied and the Remuneration Committee has been 
advised that, since only malus provisions were included in the current 
remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, it would be 
necessary to seek formal shareholder approval to amend the policy 
should clawback provisions be introduced. As a consequence, the 
Remuneration Committee has decided to see how market practice in 
relation to clawback develops before making a decision as to whether to 
introduce it to Caledonia’s performance related incentive schemes and, if 
it decides to do so, whether to seek an amendment of the remuneration 
policy before it would next ordinarily be proposed for shareholder 
approval at the annual general meeting in 2017 .
Charles Gregson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
27 May 2015
Directors remuneration report continued
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
