 06 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006
Peter 
Buckley
Chairman’s
statement
Results
Our third year as an investment trust
company has seen a continuation of the
strong growth shown in the first two. Our
total shareholder return over five and ten
years has outpaced our benchmark of the
FTSE All-Share Total Return index by 152% and
179% respectively and both these measures
show a further worthwhile advance on the
133% and 111% shown a year ago. We believe
that our long established investment strategy
of taking sizeable stakes, though usually
minority ones, in promising listed and
unlisted companies at sensible prices, and
working closely with proven managements 
to achieve their goals over a longer term,
differentiates us from most other investment
companies and has been a key contributor to
this good performance. 
Share price
Our share price during the year has risen
from £13.67 to £19.80, driven principally by
an increase in net assets per share of 34%,
but also helped by the further reduction 
in the discount of our share price to the
underlying net asset value per share. This
reduced over the year from 11% to 4% and
at times moved to a nil discount or very
small premium. Last year I cautioned that 
it would prove challenging to maintain a
continued reduction in this discount, which
Another 
successful 
year
had fallen during the previous year from
21% to 11%, but I am pleased that this 
has not been the case. Whilst narrower
discounts are not out of keeping with other
investment trusts with good track records,
the recent market volatility has seen our
discount widen again and is a salutary
reminder that our share price is not within
our control.
Dividend
For the thirty-ninth year in succession, we
are pleased to increase our annual dividend
by recommending a final dividend for the
year of 20.5 pence per share. This will bring
the total dividend for the year to 29.6 pence
representing an increase of 5% and costing
£18.8m.
Elective special dividend
In 2004, we paid an elective special 
dividend to help resolve shareholder issues
within The Cayzer Trust Company, our
largest shareholder, which were affecting
our stability and long term investment
approach. I am happy to say that these
matters are now fully behind us. In March
this year, we were pleased to announce
proposals for another elective special
dividend to celebrate a long period of 
good investment performance and to
enable shareholders, if they so choose,  Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 07
to participate in our resultant strong cash
position. The special dividend is intended to
distribute around £128m depending, inter
alia, on the level of take up and the value of
our net assets at the strike date. Payment is
scheduled on or about 13 July. The options
offered to shareholders are summarised on
page 19 of these financial statements and a
circular setting out the detailed terms of the
elective special dividend was posted to
shareholders on 31 May. 
Portfolio
The year under review has seen considerable
activity within our portfolio and highlights
are shown in the Chief Executive’s
statement and the pages following. Markets
moved strongly upwards during the year
which was good for realisations. These
totalled £307m, of which Paladin Resources,
the independent oil exploration company,
was our largest, yielding proceeds of
£108m. Higher market prices suggested 
a less favourable climate for making new
investments, but we have nevertheless
committed £155m to new and follow on
investments on sensible terms, with a
continuing healthy flow of proposals to
review. Since the end of the year, Kerzner
International has announced that it has
agreed to an offer from an investment
group led by its management to purchase
the company. This offer is expected to be
voted on by its shareholders by early July
and, if approved, will result in cash proceeds
for Caledonia of $237m, supplementing
earlier realisation proceeds of $159m.
Economic and political background
The recent market downturn has not come
as such a surprise to us for we had been
puzzled by the apparent strength of the 
UK and US economies following the very
significant rise in oil and commodity prices
and have recently been holding significant
levels of liquidity. Our instincts are to
remain cautious as there are signs of
inflation creeping in, which is leading to
higher interest rates. The US deficit remains
worryingly high and UK government
spending continues to rise with seemingly
little improvement from services delivered
and an almost daily dose of burdensome
and costly legislation to hinder our
efficiency in world markets. In particular, 
the imposition of draconian measures on
private sector pension funds through the
Pensions Regulator which, combined with
the earlier and mindless removal of the 
tax credit for pension funds, has wantonly
wrecked a jewel in this country’s essential
savings movements. The supreme irony 
of what amounts to an irresponsible
demolition of private sector pension
provision is the fact that the Government
has utterly failed to curb the excesses in
public sector pensions. This will inevitably
rebound in higher taxes to fund the
consequent financial black hole, which 
now exceeds the National Debt. Hopefully
the electorate of this country will wake 
up to the shortcomings of this Government
so devoid of competence or integrity, 
before more harm is done.
At the time of writing last year, we 
were on the eve of referenda in France and
Holland on the topic of the proposed new
European constitution. Thankfully they
returned a firm ‘Non’ but this gave a
welcome excuse to the Government in
Britain to duck the issue. Seemingly this
message from the people of Europe has
gone unheeded by the politicians who 
seem to be turning a blind eye to the
continued scheming for new constitutions
and legislation in Brussels to the ultimate
detriment of the economies across Europe.
We shall continue to pay some attention to
the economies of India and beyond, where
higher rates of growth seem more likely.
Staff
I would like to pay a fulsome tribute to all
our staff for their efforts throughout the
year on behalf of shareholders. They do
battle with an ever growing jungle of
legislation much of which is of questionable
value. On the accounting front, the task 
of dealing with the new IFRS rules has 
been time consuming and expensive 
and the increasing requirements for more
detailed and ever lengthier reporting seem
to be losing the respect of many senior
professionals and running the danger that
shareholders will find it increasingly difficult
to identify the key issues. On the wider
front, the concept of responsibility is losing
out to the cult of blaming others and this
regrettably seems to be increasingly the
focus of the growing army of regulators 
who seek comfort from the number of
boxes ticked. All of this adds to the pressure
on our hard worked staff. I thank them all
for the tremendous contribution which 
they have made.
Outlook
We have been fortunate to enjoy a long 
run of good performance, but market 
highs have recently suffered an unsurprising
check. We are not immune from these
market downturns, but our long held
investment strategy described in my
opening paragraph is less susceptible to 
the market cycle. Therefore we believe that
our continuing strong deal flow, coupled
with our investment philosophy, will
continue to stand us in good stead.
Peter Buckley
Chairman
