 Business highlights
Business review
16 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors’ report
Caledonia’s reputation and successful
long term record has been built upon two
principles that we believe set us apart.
We have a long term investment horizon,
underpinned by a strong balance sheet
and stable ownership structure. 
This enables the management teams 
we back to pursue their strategies,
confident that we are able to resist 
short term market pressures.
We seek a close involvement with
management through board
representation and strong and
supportive working relationships. 
This leads to a clear understanding 
of the objectives and motivations of 
our management partners and enables 
us to help them realise their goals.
TGE Marine
TGE Marine (formerly TGE Gas Engineering) is a gas engineering
business based in Germany. We facilitated the management buyout
from Suez Group in early 2006, supporting the original founder of 
the business and his management team. We were attracted to this
investment by the quality of the management team, who have spent
twenty years together building the business, and by the growth
prospects in the oil and gas support services sector . One of TGE
Marine’s areas of expertise is with liquefied natural gas (‘LNG’), a fast
growing sector of the industry. During the year , TGE Marine took 
its first order for a small scale LNG carrier and has high hopes for 
the future. This will complement its strong position in the ethylene
carrier market. 
As at 31 March 2008, Caledonia had invested £19.2m in TGE
Marine. After selling its onshore business, TGE Marine completed 
a successful IPO on AIM in mid-May 2008. We have retained a 35%
stake in the business, in line with our long term investment philosophy .
Business review
Business highlights Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 17 Directors’ report
Oval
Oval is one of the UK’s leading commercial insurance brokers
specialising in providing risk management and financial services
advice to corporate and owner managed businesses. Oval’s strategy
is to grow its business substantially through the acquisition of quality
regional broking businesses and developing strong and profitable
relationships with leading insurance providers to Oval’s market. 
Since we invested in 2003, we have worked very closely with
management at Oval to implement this strategy both through
providing further capital and working at board level to strengthen
and develop the team as the business grows. 
Over the last year especially, we have seen this effort bear fruit.
Oval made a number of acquisitions and had positioned itself by the
end of the year for continued strong growth through a healthy
pipeline of further acquisitions, with additional funding from
Caledonia, through a £15m convertible loan stock facility, and from
an insurance investor . 
The UK commercial insurance broking sector has recently seen a
lot of takeover and investment activity and Oval is well placed as the
leading independently owned broking business in the sector .
Avanti Communications
Avanti is in the process of designing and building an £80m satellite
(its first) in conjunction with Astrium and the European Space
Agency. The Hylas I is scheduled for launch in the first quarter of 2009
and will deliver broadband and corporate data network services using
Ka-band across Europe. 
The long term nature of Avanti’s satellite project, with the
prospect of substantial returns and further projects, ideally suits
Caledonia’s investment style. We invested £10.0m in equity in 2005
and a further £5.6m to date, increasing our holding to 24.4%. In
addition, in July 2007, we provided £7.0m as part of Avanti’s £35m
debt-raising, to complete funding of the satellite development. 
Avanti also has an established satellite-based broadband
business, renting space and selling and managing corporate data
networks and wholesale broadband services to retailers, as well as 
a consultancy business advising companies and governments 
on the design and commercialisation of space technology. Avanti 
has recently been chosen to lead the UK Government’s project to
demonstrate the role of satellite communications in road user charging.
Caledonia’s involvement and supportive
stance as a long term investor is ideally
suited to companies with ambitious,
longer term growth plans. Business review
Business highlights
18 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors’ report
London & Stamford Property
London & Stamford Property is a recently launched, Guernsey-based
and AIM listed property investment company that aims to benefit
from the currently depressed property markets. It plans to invest 
in commercial property, including office, retail and distribution 
real estate assets, principally in the UK, but also overseas, where 
it believes opportunities exist to extract above-average returns.
London & Stamford Property will be an active investor and intends 
to implement strategies to enhance the quality and value of acquired
assets and improve annual rental values. The management team has
a strong track record, previously building and selling Arlington
Securities and Pillar Property. 
In November 2007, Caledonia invested £19.5m for a 6.8% stake
in London & Stamford Property and we hope to see this company
build its portfolio over the next two to three years.
Retif
Retif operates over 150 cash and carry stores selling equipment and
consumables to retail stores. The chain is primarily based in France
but also has operations in Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg
and the UK. Retif carries a comprehensive range of over 7,000
products, including display units and shelving as well as decoration,
packaging, stationery, cleaning and labelling products. 
The business expects to continue its strong track record of
growth by rolling out its well-established retail formula and to make
further acquisitions in promising European markets. 
In September 2007, Caledonia invested £12.9m in equity 
and loans in the holding company to support a management 
buyout of the business by a syndicate of private equity firms, led 
by Pragma Capital.
We have taken a cautious approach 
to investing this year , but have still
found a number of new and follow-on
opportunities. Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 19 Directors’ report
Quintain Estates
Quintain Estates is a leading property investment and development
company, specialising in strategic property acquisition,
redevelopment and asset management across the UK. In addition 
to a large portfolio of properties and its fund management activities,
Quintain Estates has projects at Wembley and the Greenwich
Peninsular in London. 
Quintain Estates controls over 70 acres of land surrounding the 
National Stadium at Wembley, with planning consent for 6.1m sq ft
and potential for up to 8m sq ft. Quintain Estates has completed the
refurbishment of the Grade II listed Wembley Arena – Europe’s most
successful entertainment venue. As part of these refurbishment
plans, the Arena has been re-orientated towards the Stadium,
opening onto a spectacular new square for London. The
development will also feature office and commercial space, leisure
and community facilities and a 450 room 5-star hotel. 
Quintain Estates owns 18.5 acres of the Greenwich Peninsula
and has the rights to develop 190 acres. The £5bn, 20 year
regeneration project will create a vibrant new urban district for
London, providing 24,000 permanent new jobs and homes for
20,000 people. The mixed-use development includes over 10,000
new dwellings, 3.5m sq ft of commercial space, 360,000 sq ft of
retail, a hotel, open spaces and extensive community facilities. All
buildings will be designed and built to the highest current
environmental standards. 
Caledonia has been a supportive investor in Quintain Estates
since 1994. During the year ended 31 March 2008, we invested a
further £27.5m to increase our stake to 10.0%.
Serica Energy
Serica Energy is an international oil and gas exploration and
production company with activities focussed on Western Europe 
and South East Asia. Serica Energy has operations in the UK North
Sea, Norway, Ireland, Spain, Indonesia and Vietnam and has built a
portfolio of exploration, appraisal and development projects, striking
a balance between established hydrocarbon producing basins, where
the chances of success are relatively high, and untested basins, where
success is less certain but the potential rewards are more significant. 
Serica Energy is a publicly traded company, listed on the AIM
Market in London and on the TSX Venture Exchange in T oronto. 
Caledonia first invested in Serica Energy in July 2006, soon after
its listing in London and T oronto. During the year ended 31 March
2008, we invested a further £9.8m, increasing our stake to 13.2%.
