 04 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Performance over the year
After two years of falling market values, the year ended 
31 March 2010 saw a strong rebound in equity values. As a result, 
our own diluted net asset value (‘NAV’) per share increased by 
30.5%, largely offsetting the previous year’s fall. However it is 
disappointing to report that this gain nonetheless represented 
an underperformance of 16.2%, compared with the spectacular rise 
in the FTSE All-Share index of 46.7%. This is the ﬁ rst time that we 
have underperformed in the seven years since we converted to 
investment trust status in 2003. The principal cause for this relative 
underperformance has been our consistently conservative, but 
robust, approach to investing, speciﬁ cally directed towards long 
term performance. Our philosophy is to take signiﬁ cant long term 
stakes, usually with a board seat, in sound, well run companies. The 
value of our holdings in such companies fell signiﬁ cantly less than 
the equity market as a whole during the downturn, and hence had 
less ground to make up in the recovery phase. Nevertheless, over 
the longer term we continue to expect the total shareholder 
returns (‘TSR’) of such companies to outperform their peers.
 Our one year performance has also been restrained to 
the extent that we have held cash and other low yield liquid 
investments. Although such investments showed positive returns 
for the year, this was plainly much lower than the FTSE All-Share 
index gain of 46.7%. In addition, we have had no investment 
exposure to the clearing banks (which showed spectacular 
recovery gains), nor to the mining sector (whose index showed 
a gain of 105% in the year). 
 We have maintained our progressive dividend policy by 
increasing our annual dividend for the 43rd successive year.
Medium and long term performance
Over the ﬁ ve year period to 31 March 2010, our NAV per share 
increased in value by 32.9%, thereby showing both a positive 
absolute gain, and outperformance compared with the FTSE 
All-Share index which increased by 18.4%. However, as at 
31 March 2010, the discount of our share price to NAV had 
widened to 20.1% and, as a consequence, our ﬁ ve year TSR 
of 32. 1% was below the FTSE All-Share TSR of 41.3%.
 As illustrated in the chart on page 1, our ten year TSR of 
196.7% shows 167 .0% outperformance when compared with 
the FTSE All-Share TSR of only 29.7% over this period.
 
Since we converted to investment trust status in April 2003, we 
have measured our NAV on a consistent basis. Our diluted NAV 
per share over this period has signiﬁ cantly outperformed the FTSE 
All-Share index in the last six out of seven years, with NAV per share 
increasing by more than the index in growth years and declining 
by less in the two years when markets have fallen. This relative 
performance, in both bull and bear markets over the seven years, 
is shown in the chart below.
Signiﬁ cant changes in value over the year
Most of our investments have shown substantial gains during the 
year. Those gains of particular signiﬁ cance, where there has been 
both a percentage gain of 50% or more, and an absolute gain of 
over £10m, are shown in the table below (again measured on a 
total return basis):
 Gain in value
Investment    £m  % 
Close Brothers    54.3  53 
Avanti Communications    24.6  99 
Bristow Group    24.1  66 
Dewan Housing Finance    20.6  31 1 
Alok Industries    15.6  112 
Satellite Information Services    13.3  70 
TGE Marine    12.9  231 
AG Barr    12.7  60 
Serica Energy    10.9  99 
Close Brothers is a specialist ﬁ nancial services group active in 
banking, securities trading and asset management. It is our largest 
investment by value with a 13.6% shareholding. During the year 
Preben Prebensen was appointed as the new CEO, and the group 
has taken advantage of favourable conditions, particularly for 
its specialist lending activities and its trading business, 
Winterﬂ ood Securities.
  



 Chief Executive’s report
Increase in diluted NAV per share over the year
30.5% 05 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Avanti Communications is a UK listed satellite communications 
business, in which we hold a 16.4% equity stake. It has advanced 
plans and full funding for two geo-stationary communications 
satellites, and with the signing of further client contracts the 
substantial potential value creation is becoming reﬂ ected in the 
share price.
 Bristow Group is a US listed helicopter operating business 
mainly serving the offshore oil and gas sector, in which Caledonia 
holds a 6.6% stake. The business is progressing well with 
international expansion, higher oil prices and the strengthening 
of the US dollar against sterling all helping to increase its value.
 Dewan Housing Finance, in which we have an 1 1.0% stake, 
is an Indian listed housing ﬁ nance company. With strong growth 
in its business and earnings per share, the share price has increased. 
Alok Industries, in which we have a 12. 1% stake, is an Indian listed 
business whose principal activity is textile manufacturing. The 
previous year had seen a signiﬁ cant fall in its share price, but with 
a large increase in its revenues and earnings as more manufacturing 
capacity came on stream, the share price has strengthened over 
the year. The gains from these two Indian investments were 
also aided by the relative appreciation of the Indian rupee 
against sterling.
 Satellite Information Services is an unquoted business, in 
which we have a 22.5% shareholding, provides outside broadcast, 
production and satellite transmission services to UK and overseas 
media customers, as well as being a major supplier of data to the 
UK and Irish betting industries. The company delivered another 
year of increased proﬁ ts.
 We now have a 49.9% stake in TGE Marine, as a result of the 
company being taken private during the course of the year. TGE 
is a Bonn-based business specialising in the design and build of 
liquid gas tankers for ship owners and, with the recovering world 
economy and rising energy prices, the prospects for this company 
have increased signiﬁ cantly.
 AG Barr is a UK listed soft drinks business in which we are an 
8.8% shareholder. The company recently reported another year 
of strong proﬁ t growth and encouraging current trading.
 Serica Energy is an oil and gas exploration and production 
company in which we have a 14.4% stake. During the year, the 
company sold down some of its Asian assets, substantially reducing 
its debt. This, coupled with rising oil prices, has led to a welcome gain 
in the share price and a reduction in its discount to net asset value.
 
The table below shows those investments which fell in value 
by £1m or more, measured on a total return basis, over the year 
to 31 March 2010.
 Fall in value
Investment    £m  % 
FTSE put options    14.4  84 
Begbies Traynor    4.2  32 
Celerant Consulting    4.0  18 
Ermitage    3.7  34 
Novae Group    1.6  9 
Tribal Group    1.6  16 
During the year, and once we were conﬁ dent that the economic 
recovery had begun, we closed out all of our FTSE put options. We 
ﬁ rst commenced this value protection programme in June 2007 
when we had major concerns over the economy as a whole. Since 
then we invested a total of £13.0m and realised £30.6m 
(both ﬁ gures excluding any re-investment of realisation proceeds), 
producing a net pre-tax gain of £17 .6m. This policy has therefore 
been beneﬁ cial for shareholders during these tumultuous times in 
both providing a degree of protection against falling markets and 
producing positive absolute returns. However, with hindsight, 
ideally we should have closed out these protective options a few 
months earlier.
 We have a 15.7% stake in Begbies Traynor, a UK listed 
corporate recovery and insolvency practitioner. Over the year 
its share price dropped by nearly 35% as the anticipated large 
increased trading activity derived from corporate bankruptcies 
failed to materialise. However earnings from insolvency work is a 
protracted process and we believe the outlook for Begbies Traynor 
to be good.
 Celerant Consulting, which is an unlisted UK based company 
providing consultancy assistance in business efﬁ ciency, and in 
which our equity stake is 47 .3%, had shown a large gain in value in 
our previous ﬁ nancial year. A marked slow-down in revenues in the 
European side of its business has caused the reduction in value.
 Ermitage is a Jersey-based fund of hedge funds business in 
which we currently have an equity stake of 91.7%. Like most other 
similar businesses, the year saw a signiﬁ cant diminution in assets 
under management, leading to a drop in value. 
 Novae is a UK listed Lloyd’s insurance business in which 
we have a 7 .2% stake. Disappointing underwriting results for the 
ﬁ rst half of 2009 led to a fall in the share price.
 Tribal Group is a UK listed company providing public sector 
services in the UK and internationally, in which we have an 1 1.0% 
stake. Uncertainty over the impact of forthcoming cutbacks in 
government expenditure has led to the fall in its share price.
“  Our philosophy of taking signiﬁ cant 
stakes in well run companies continues 
to deliver long term performance. ” 06 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2010 Business review
Chief Executive’s report
Investment activity
We started the year in a strong ﬁ nancial position with £55m of 
cash and £100m of term facilities committed to July 2013. In view 
of the uncertain economic conditions, we believed we should give 
priority to investing at attractive prices in our existing portfolio 
investments where we know the company and management well, 
and where there were likely to be needs for further capital. As a 
consequence, we invested about £1 14m in follow-on investments, 
and although we examined 80 new opportunities, we made only 
one new investment at an initial cost of about £2m. This total 
investment ﬁ gure of £1 16m represented a signiﬁ cant (84%) 
increase over the £63m invested in the previous year.
 Most (nearly 70%) of our realisations were in the second half of 
our ﬁ nancial year when equity markets had considerably improved. 
Over the full 12 month period, we realised a total of around £84m 
which was lower than the £99m we had realised in the previous 
year. Further details on investments and realisations are shown in 
the ﬁ nancial review on page 19.
 Our cash position at the end of the ﬁ nancial year was 
approximately £8m, and the £100m of committed term bank 
facilities remained undrawn.
Costs
We continue to keep a tight rein on costs, and once again our 
pre-tax total expenses ratio at 0.96% has been kept below our 
target of 1% and is well below the investment trust average of 1.2%.
Business philosophy
Our core business philosophy of being a signiﬁ cant long term 
supportive and constructively involved shareholder has continued. 
During the year, we have had board representation in 18 of our top 
20 investments, a demonstration of real shareholder involvement 
which, sadly, so often does not seem to happen elsewhere. 
Nonetheless, it is time consuming and can pose logistical challenges.
 For some time we have believed that economic growth 
prospects are looking more attractive in Asia and the Far East, 
than in the West. As mentioned in the Chairman’s statement, over 
the last ﬁ ve years we have built up considerable experience in this 
region, both directly and indirectly through our 40% stake in IAP 
Group, an investment advisory and fund management business 
with operations in Mumbai and London. In China, most of our 
investing has been through the private equity funds of Capital 
Today. However, a Caledonia executive chairs the advisory boards 
of those funds, which again enhances our knowledge and 
understanding. We believe therefore that we are becoming better 
placed to take advantage of value creating opportunities in these 
fast growing regions.
 
Outlook
Although we have seen a tremendous rally in equity prices, the 
global economy continues to look fragile. In the West, particularly 
the US and UK, governments are running huge deﬁ cits which 
are clearly unsustainable. There is simply not going to be the 
resurgence of economic growth in this part of the world to mask 
those deﬁ cits. Indeed, the necessary medicine of government 
expenditure cuts and/or taxation increases will have a further 
deleterious effect on growth. There may well in time be a 
resurgence of signiﬁ cant inﬂ ation. In Asia and the Far East, the 
situation looks better, but we should not forget that much of their 
growth has been export led and fuelled by inward foreign 
investment, and the rate of inﬂ ation in India remains a concern.
 In short, although we anticipate there to be continuing good 
investment opportunities, we need to maintain our cautious 
stance. It will be very difﬁ cult for us to achieve the same degree 
of TSR in real terms over the next ten years that we have achieved 
over the past decade. We will, nevertheless, continue to aspire to 
relative outperformance over the medium to long term, while 
also producing positive absolute returns.
My retirement
As the Chairman’s statement has already mentioned, I will be 
retiring after the AGM in July having spent just over eight years 
as Caledonia’s chief executive and therefore this will be my last 
report. I have particularly enjoyed this role and have been 
privileged to have worked with so much talent in our investee 
companies. I would like to take this opportunity to thank every 
one of my colleagues at Caledonia who, together with all the 
managements of our investee companies, have been the people 
who have created the shareholder value, and thereby made my 
job so enjoyable.
 My successor, Will Wyatt, has worked for the Caledonia 
group for 13 years and has established an outstanding record in 
investment performance – he is an exceptionally astute investor. 
He will, of course, be supported by a very able and experienced 
management team. I will therefore be leaving the company in good 
hands and I would underline my conﬁ dence in its future by adding 
that I have no intention after my retirement of selling any of my 
personal shareholdings in Caledonia!
Tim Ingram
Chief Executive
