 40  Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc  
The Remuneration Committee ensures 
that remuneration arrangements support 
the strategic aims of the business and 
enable the recruitment, motivation and 
retention of senior executives of the 
calibre needed to manage and grow the 
company successfully.
Membership and attendance
The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration 
Committee during the year was as follows:
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings 
eligible 
to attend 
C H Gregson (Chairman) 5 5 
C M Allen-Jones 5 5 
R B Woods 4 5 
D G F Thompson
1
3 3 
1. Mr Thompson retired as a member of the committee on 24 July 2013.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonia’s 
Directors’ remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
New basis of remuneration disclosure  
and shareholder voting
As heralded in last year’s report, new remuneration reporting 
regulations put forward by the Department for Business 
Innovation and Skills became law with effect from 1 October 
2013. This year’s Directors’ remuneration report is therefore 
presented in a new format designed to comply with these 
regulations – the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 
Groups (Accounts and Reports)(Amendment) Regulations 2013 
(‘Regulations’) – and is also prepared in accordance with the 
recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and  
the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The report now comprises three sections as follows:
• an annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, which summarises and explains the major 
decisions taken and changes made in relation to directors’ 
remuneration during the year
• a forward looking remuneration policy, which describes the 
company’s remuneration framework and how it is aligned 
with its business strategy, summarises the key elements of 
directors’ pay and illustrates levels of total remuneration that 
may be paid to the executive directors in different scenarios
• an annual report on directors’ remuneration, which sets out 
the amounts actually paid to directors in respect of the year 
under review and the value of long term incentive awards that 
vested in that period.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the remuneration policy 
and the annual report on directors’ remuneration for the year 
ended 31 March 2014 separately by simple majority votes at the 
company’s annual general meeting on 17 July 2014, the vote on 
the remuneration policy being binding on the company, whereas 
the vote on the annual report on directors’ remuneration will  
(as was the case with previous directors’ remuneration reports) 
be advisory in nature only. The Regulations require that the 
remuneration policy be approved by shareholders at least every 
three years, although an earlier vote will be required if the 
Remuneration Committee wishes to implement any policy 
changes or if an advisory vote on an annual report on directors’ 
remuneration is not passed. A resolution to approve the annual 
report on directors’ remuneration must be put to shareholders 
every year.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the company’s auditor to 
report to the shareholders on certain parts of the directors’ 
remuneration report and to state whether, in its opinion, those 
parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance 
with the Regulations. The parts of the annual report on 
directors’ remuneration that have been audited are indicated  
in that report. The annual statement by the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and the policy on directors’ 
remuneration are not subject to audit.
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014  41
Directors’ report
Remuneration for the 2014 financial year
Turning to the year under review, as described in the Chairman’s 
and Chief Executive’s report, Caledonia has delivered strong 
performance in the year to 31 March 2014. NAV per share on  
a total return basis (‘NAVTR’) increased by 14.9%, compared 
with an increase of 2.5% in the Retail Prices Index (‘RPI’), which 
the Remuneration Committee introduced as a measure of the 
company’s performance for annual bonuses this year in order to 
reward executives only when positive real returns are generated 
for shareholders. On the basis of the company’s relative 
performance against RPI over the year and after assessing the 
performance of the individual directors against the personal 
objectives set for them at the start of the year and, where 
relevant, pool performance and objectives, the Remuneration 
Committee decided that it was appropriate to award the 
maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic salary to each  
of the executive directors.
The year to 31 March 2014 also represented the end of the three 
year performance measurement period for awards granted 
in 2011 under the company’s performance share scheme and 
matching shares under the deferred bonus plan. For the 2011 
matching awards under the deferred bonus plan, the targets 
were that, for 50% of the shares comprised in an award to vest, 
Caledonia’s undiluted net asset value per share (‘NAV’) would 
have to outperform RPI by at least 9% over the measurement 
period, and for the other 50%, Caledonia’s NAV would have to 
outperform the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3% over the 
measurement period. Both targets were met and therefore all  
of the 2011 deferred bonus matching shares have vested.
For the 2011 performance share scheme awards, the 
performance targets were that, for two-thirds of the shares 
comprised in an award, Caledonia’s NAVTR had to outperform 
the FTSE All-Share Total Return index (‘FTSE index’) and,  
for the other third, the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts 
(all-stocks) Total Return index (‘Gilts index’) over the three year 
measurement period, in each case with shares vesting on a 
graduated basis between 0.5% and 3.5% outperformance. Whilst 
Caledonia’s NAVTR has outperformed both of these benchmark 
indices over the past two financial years, underperformance  
in the 2012 financial year prior to the implementation of the 
company’s revised strategy meant that neither performance 
target was met and accordingly the 2011 awards lapsed in their 
entirety. For this year’s performance share scheme awards, the 
Remuneration Committee commenced a phased move towards 
a longer performance period for a significant proportion of the 
shares comprised therein, in order better to align them with the 
company’s long term investment horizon. Half of the shares 
comprised in an award will be measured over three years by 
reference to the Gilts index and half over five years by reference 
to the FTSE index. This balance will be repeated for any awards 
made in the 2015 financial year, but thereafter one-third will  
be measured over three years and two-thirds over five years  
by reference to the aforementioned indices.
In line with good practice, the Remuneration Committee  
has also introduced provisions into Caledonia’s performance 
share scheme and deferred bonus plan, which will give the 
Remuneration Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested 
awards in the event of a material misstatement of the company’s 
financial results, a miscalculation of a participant’s entitlement, 
misconduct on the part of the participant or an event resulting  
in material loss or reputational damage to the company or a 
member of the group. These are commonly known as ‘malus’ 
provisions and will apply to share based awards granted after 
1 April 2014.
Remuneration for the 2015 financial year
Looking ahead to the 2015 financial year, basic salaries of 
executive directors have been increased with effect from 1 April 
2014 by 2.5%, which was the same as the standard increase 
given to the company’s staff generally and mirrored the rise in 
the cost of living as measured by RPI of 2.5%. The Chairman’s 
and the non-executive directors’ fees were last reviewed in  
April 2011 and these have therefore also been increased by 10%, 
in line with inflation since that date.
As explained in the Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report,  
the board has recently decided to adopt RPI as the basis of 
measurement of Caledonia’s performance over the medium,  
as well as the shorter, term in place of the FTSE index. In the  
light of this, the Remuneration Committee will be considering 
whether RPI should also be adopted as the benchmark index for 
the company’s share incentive plans, in place of the FTSE index 
and Gilts index currently used. Other than this, no changes in  
the basis of directors’ remuneration are anticipated for the 2015 
financial year.
Shareholder consultation
The remuneration policy that we are now asking shareholders to 
approve embodies the fundamental principles that have guided 
our Remuneration Committee for many years, namely that we 
aim to attract and retain talented individuals needed to manage 
and grow our business successfully and to motivate them with 
packages that are closely linked to the company’s long term 
performance and strategy. We endeavour to ensure that the 
quantum of our pay is competitive, but not excessive, and that we 
reward success when earned, but not failure. Most importantly, 
we seek to align the interests of those who manage our company 
with the shareholders who own it.
We have taken the opportunity to consult with some of our 
larger shareholders and certain institutional shareholder 
representative bodies on this policy and are very grateful for 
their constructive feedback. We hope therefore that both the 
policy and the annual report will receive your support at the 
annual general meeting in July.
Charles Gregson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 
28 May 2014
