 Results
In a difficult year for markets, it is not surprising to report that our 
fifth year as an investment trust has resulted in a decline of 4.6% in 
our net asset value per share, although this should be taken in the
context of an 10.9% decline in the FTSE All-Share index. Given that 
the share prices of our second and fourth largest holdings, being
Close Brothers and Quintain Estates, fell by 39% and 50% respectively,
this outperformance reflects the sound quality of our overall portfolio.
It also reinforces the validity of our long standing investment
approach, which is to take significant stakes for the longer term 
in promising quoted and unquoted companies with management
teams whom we have got to know and trust. This is similarly 
reflected in our continued longer term outperformance against 
our benchmark FTSE All-Share T otal Return index over five and 
ten years of 155% and 187% respectively.
Share price and discount
Our share price fell by 0.8% over the year from 2066 pence to 
2050 pence and, against the 5% decline in net asset value per share
already mentioned, this reflected a narrowing of the share price
discount from 8.5% to 4.9%. Our share price total return over one
year , which assumes reinvestment of dividends, was positive at 0.8%.
Dividend
We are pleased to propose a 4.6% increase of 1.0 pence in the final
dividend to 22.6 pence per share payable on 14 August 2008. This will
bring the total dividend for the year to 32.5 pence, representing an
increase of 4.5% over the previous year and costing £18.7m. We shall
have increased our annual dividend to shareholders for forty-one
consecutive years.
Portfolio and liquidity
The Chief Executive reviews the detailed changes to our portfolio 
in his report. In overall terms we have adopted a more cautious
approach to the market over the past year with investments made in
five new situations totalling £48m compared with 14 new situations
in the previous year costing £128m. Follow-on investments totalled
£156m compared with £162m last year . T ogether investments 
made exceeded realisations during the year by £89m, which,
adjusted for movements in working capital, reduced our net liquidity
from £109m to £24m. Whilst we remain cautious about markets, 
we would wish to be in a position to take advantage of the potentially
interesting opportunities which are likely to arise from these difficult
times and we are looking at arranging appropriate borrowing facilities.
Directors’ report 02 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008
Chairman’s
statement
Share price total return outperformance against 
the FTSE All-Share T otal Return over five years
Increase in the proposed final dividend to 22.6p per share
1 55%
4.6% Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 03 Directors’ report
Staff
We are fortunate to have a close knit and dedicated team at
Caledonia and it has been a busy year for them. Regulations, which
often emanate from an unaccountable bureaucracy in Brussels or are
imposed on industry in a manner which the UK Government opts out
of for its own account as in the public sector pensions arena, continue
to grow alarmingly and impose an unwelcome additional burden on
the workload of our team and, worse, for the competitiveness of our
economy in global markets. I would like to thank the Caledonia team
on behalf of shareholders for their unstinting and diligent efforts.
Outlook
The financial markets have suffered unprecedented difficulties and
the impact of all this is only now filtering through to the wider
economy. This undoubtedly has further to go and inflation is likely 
to be the next issue to consider . So there is no easy road ahead 
but opportunities are bound to present themselves which we 
shall address with our traditional approach ever mindful of the
difficult environment.
Peter Buckley
Chairman
Economic and political background
I have customarily made reference to the economic and political
background and the impact it has on our business and for some years
I have been strongly critical of the present Government. In the past
year many of their chickens have come home to roost and what a
shabby lot they look. Shorn of integrity and economic competence,
Rooster Brown has even less feathers than Rooster Blair and lacks 
the latter’s knack of preening himself. It is heartening that the recent
local elections, exemplified by the change of the Mayor in London 
and the Crewe by-election, would both suggest that the electorate 
is seeking change.
Fuelled by the greed of the US investment banks, the principal
culprits in the sub-prime crisis, many other banks had lowered their
standards to an alarming degree which the Government, through 
its Brown-imposed three way regulatory framework of T reasury, 
Bank of England and Financial Services Authority, utterly failed to
spot. Over the past period of relative plenty, Brown has consistently
and stealthily raised taxes and public expenditure in a way which has
failed to deliver proper value. He blusters about prudent economic
management when Britain is now at the lower end of a number 
of European economic league tables. Blair and Brown both promised
a referendum on the new constitutional reforms in Europe and 
then reneged. What is particularly distressing in all this, is a growing
politicisation of the civil service and the lack of example being set 
by those at the top in both politics and banking, with self interest
dominating the willingness to take responsibility, which is hardly the
right ethic to instil in future generations. All of this impinges on the
prospects for growth in our economy.
Last year some of these factors led us to ask our shareholders 
for the authority to make contributions of up to £60,000 to the
Conservative Party so that it can be equipped better to form an
alternative government. I am pleased to report that we had a ringing
endorsement in favour of this from the overwhelming majority 
of our shareholders. The year just past has strengthened our belief 
in this initiative although the Conservatives will have to be careful 
and consistent with their policy pronouncements. We shall ask our
shareholders for permission to donate again to the Conservative
Party with an increase in the contribution to £75,000 in case the next
twelve months turns out to be an election year . The focus of giving
will remain on building resource in the marginal seats where the 
past year’s contributions were also targeted.
“Continuing outperformance
against our benchmark
again validates our
investment approach.”
Peter Buckley
Chairman
