 10 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006
Caledonia has developed a distinctive and
successful investment style and philosophy .
It is centred on our long term approach,
our close supportive relationship with 
the management teams we back and our
determination to guard our reputation as 
a good, reliable equity partner.
All this differentiates us, in the case of
unquoted investments, from the mainstream
private equity and venture capital markets
and, for our listed investments, from more
traditional fund managers. The business
highlights of the year under review illustrate
our approach.
Business highlights
of the year Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 11
We acquired a 22% stake for £18.0m in Satellite Information
Services (SIS), the provider of integrated information systems
to the betting industry and outside broadcast services. 
Our ability to take a long term view and acquire an existing
shareholding in a well established business, without requiring
a shorter term exit mechanism, meant that we could respond
to the desire of an existing investor to realise its minority
stake at what we believe was a highly attractive entry price.
Broadcasting remains a key area of expertise for SIS. 
It is one of the most experienced television and production
and outside broadcast companies in Europe, and the leading
supplier of television programming and sports data to
licensed betting offices. In 1987, SIS became the first
broadcaster to create a dedicated specialist sports channel
for the UK betting market. Betting markets around the globe
now receive a service from SIS that includes live worldwide
sports coverage.
Employing over 400 people across Europe, SIS operates 
a number of dedicated television channels and is one of 
the small number of television companies in the world 
able to cover and deliver live televised racing and provide 
a continuous supply of support data.
SIS is an established and successful business, which is
owned by a small group of both strategic and financial
investors. Through having a Caledonia executive on the
board, we look forward to supporting management and
developing our relationship with our fellow shareholders 
and we have been impressed with the results to date of SIS.
During the year, our holding has increased to 24%. We believe
that our long term investment approach is well suited to 
a business like SIS, which will benefit from a stable and
involved shareholder base.
Wallem
Satellite Information Services
Generating shareholder
value by responding to
market opportunities
In 1992, Caledonia became a significant shareholder with 
a 74% economic interest in Wallem, a Hong Kong-based
group, best known for its leading position in the ship
management industry. There had been strong links with
Wallem since the 1970s through the involvement of one 
of Caledonia’s directors in Wallem’s business, but the
opportunity then arose for us to acquire the stake of the
major shareholder. So, in 1992, we invested alongside the
chairman of Wallem, who had then been working in the
business for some 30 years. It was this close relationship
and knowledge of the business which gave us the
confidence to invest in a company with its headquarters 
in Hong Kong. The presence of Wallem at the gateway to
China and its success in servicing burgeoning Chinese trade
have both helped us to develop an investment presence in
that part of the world.
Wallem performed very well in the mid-1990s,
generating cash which it paid out as dividends, but suffered a
significant downturn during the Asian crisis of the late-1990s.
In response to this, Wallem restructured its operations,
selling its shipping investments, and has subsequently seen 
a substantial improvement in its fortunes.
Then, an unsolicited approach from an interested
purchaser, closely connected with the founding Wallem
family, coincided with discussions we were holding in 2005
with our shareholding partner about how we might help
him realise his interests in Wallem. Consequently we were
able, over the course of almost a year, to work with our 
co-investor, Wallem’s management, advisers and the
potential purchaser to achieve a successful exit at the 
end of our financial year. We are satisfied that this sale, 
to knowledgeable trade investors with sound financial
backing, was both at an attractive value and ensured that
the excellent reputation Wallem enjoyed with its clients
remained in good hands, so that the business and its people
should continue to prosper.
Cash received for our stake totalled some £35m.
We believe the Wallem story is an excellent example of
how Caledonia’s flexible response to market opportunities
works well through the economic cycle for shareholding
partners and management teams and generates value for
our shareholders.
Supporting management
and developing long term
relationships 12 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006
Business highlights
of the year
Avanti Screenmedia
Paladin Resources
Backing management 
in listed companies
through cornerstone
fundraising support
We invested £10.0m for a 17.9% stake in Avanti
Screenmedia, the AIM listed supplier of screen media
systems, and now have a Caledonia executive on the board.
We were introduced to Avanti by the company’s brokers 
who were well known to us and recognised the benefit 
of Caledonia’s investing philosophy. The investment
demonstrates how Caledonia is able to assist listed
companies through being able to cornerstone an issue 
of equity, such as an IPO or, as in this case, a £25m 
equity placing to fund the growth of the business.
Avanti is the market-leading provider of screen media
services for the retail, leisure and shopping mall sectors 
in the UK, with a 30% market share. Their screen media
channels reach over 12m consumers per week, including 
a high proportion of the highly desirable 18-34s market
through its pub and bar channels.
Avanti currently rents satellite space for relaying its
services, but is keen to own its own satellite as a more
efficient way of securing long term revenues. It was awarded
a satellite licence by Ofcom, the UK communications
regulator, in August 2005 and plans to build and launch its
£70m satellite by 2008, in conjunction with the European
Space Agency.
Having appraised the opportunity in a relatively short
period through detailed discussions with management and
other due diligence, we decided that there was considerable
upside in the value of the business and look forward to
working with our Avanti board colleagues and management
to realise this potential.
Securing beneﬁcial
outcomes through
supportive relationships
with management
We realised our investment in Paladin Resources for
£108.2m towards the end of 2005 by supporting a
recommended offer from Talisman Energy Resources. 
To achieve this, we worked closely with management,
whom we had known from the 1990s when they had 
been responsible for the development and successful 
sale of Clyde Petroleum.
We had originally invested in Paladin Resources in 1994
and then built up a 9% stake, principally during 2002 and
2003, at a total cost of £19.8m.
Paladin Resources was one of the UK’s most successful
independent oil and gas exploration and production
companies. Its strategy was to position itself as a natural
partner for oil majors wanting to dispose of assets and to
purchase assets where further active investment would
enhance production. Assets acquired included a package 
of North Sea oil interests from BP and Amerada Hess and
various permits in the Timor Sea off the coast of Australia.
For the offer to proceed, the purchaser needed to
minimise the transaction risk from a potential competing
offer. We helped achieve this through committing our stake
to the offeror – a good example of how our supportive
relationship with management can help to secure an
outcome which benefits all the company’s shareholders. Caledonia has been closely involved with Sterling Industries,
specialising in hydraulic valves and combustion heat transfer
systems, since acquiring a 25% stake in 1989. We acquired
100% ownership of the Sterling Group in 2000 in order 
to be able to help management reposition and restructure
the business. This was achieved through recruitment 
both at board and management levels and we supported
operational management through some challenging market
conditions. During these, the cost base was reduced and a
clearer market focus introduced, capitalising especially on
growth in China. Our efforts were rewarded in 2005, when
Sterling Industries took advantage of industry consolidation
and sold its hydraulic valves business to Parker Hannifin of
the USA for £33.2m, realising a book profit of £22.3m.
The remaining businesses in Sterling Industries are
performing well. Bloom, which designs and manufactures
burners for the iron, steel and aluminium industries, is
expanding its market into China; PCC, a specialist in providing
thermal solutions for pollution control, is performing well in
the US, and GCD, an Australian business that designs and
manufactures fibreglass ovens for a range of customers and
applications, is enjoying a strong market in its sector.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 13
Sterling Industries
Helping management
reposition and
restructure businesses 14 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006
Business highlights
of the year 
In 2003, Caledonia made a decision to build a portfolio 
of direct investments in India, extending geographically 
the successful strategy of backing proven management
teams over the long term. Working with local advisory
partners, we initially gained experience through building 
a modest portfolio of small stakes in a number of
companies introduced to us. One of these businesses 
was Alok Industries, a listed textile manufacturer based 
in Mumbai, and we were impressed by their achievements
and ambitions, not only in the domestic field but more
particularly in export markets. We were aware that 
they should be able to benefit substantially from the
imminent removal of WTO quotas on textile exports 
and were preparing to raise capital to expand production
for this purpose.
We initially acquired a small stake through a convertible
bond issue in 2004 and then in July 2005, once we had
really got to know the major shareholding family, we made
a more substantial investment by participating in Alok’s
second convertible bond issue. We have subsequently
converted all our bonds into equity and added to the
investment at various times through market purchases,
giving us an 11.8% stake as at 31 March 2006 at a total cost
of £13.9m. We have also accepted the offer of a board seat.
The rapid expansion of Alok’s already substantial
manufacturing plants represents a considerable management
challenge which we think is being skilfully met. Recent good
results reflect the quality of the management team and the
longer term opportunities open to them.
Building our portfolio 
of direct investments 
in India
Alok Industries Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 15
In the 1990s, we invested in a UK self storage business
called Abacus. The early days of the business required
considerable input and some further investment from
Caledonia. Abacus became one of the largest European 
self storage companies and was sold in 1998 for a
substantial profit.
Some two years later we were asked by the former
Abacus management to join in a new venture establishing
self storage sites in Italy and Spain. In 2000, Easybox was
created and quickly established itself with two sites in Spain
and four in Italy.
It has proven much harder than expected to expand 
the business in Spain due to high property prices, so we
decided to sell this part of the company and concentrate
our efforts on Italy. The Spanish operations were sold for
£13.5m, a substantial profit on the cost of £6.9m. £7.0m
was returned to Caledonia by way of loan repayments. 
All sites in Italy have been trading well, a new site in
Rome will be opening this autumn, and a number of new
properties are being considered.
The Abacus/Easybox history demonstrates our
principles of seeking out able management, establishing 
a strong, long term relationship and being a flexible and
supportive investor.
Over the year, Caledonia’s liquidity increased from 
£40m to £180m. The principal role of Group Treasury 
is to ensure that we have the cash available to meet 
our investment commitments and also to maximise the
return from surplus liquidity consistent with maintaining
an approved level of risk. Traditionally, Caledonia has
mainly held surplus cash in term deposits, but 
we have recently invested £75m in a range of money
market funds that aim to deliver a return above bank
deposits, whilst protecting our capital.
Offering ﬂexible
investment support 
to proven management
teams
Easybox
Treasury management
