 As set out in last year’s Annual Report,  
we have undertaken significant remedial 
action to rectify the issues of the previous 
year. Under our Chief Executive Officer, 
Saleem Asaria, and Chief Financial Officer, 
Martin Hopcroft, we have implemented 
improvements in our financial processes 
and systems, including cost control, and  
we are managing the business on a much 
tighter basis. We are continuing to focus on 
further improving our systems and we have 
continued to invest in our HR function and 
the recruitment and training of staff.
Financial results
We are commenting on both Children’s 
Services and Adult Services on a combined 
basis, as we completed the sale of the latter 
on 28 December 2016. On a combined basis, 
revenue increased by 12% to £324.1 million 
(2015: £290.1 million), while Adjusted EBITDA 
of £45.0 million was an increase of 6% over 
the prior year’s number of £42.5 million.
On a statutory basis where Adult Services are 
treated as discontinued operations, we are 
reporting that revenue in Children’s Services 
increased by 13% to £182.1 million (2015: 
£160.7 million), while Adjusted EBITDA was 
£16.2 million (2015: £18.4 million). Operating 
loss before exceptional items was £0.2 million 
(2015: £2.0 million profit), while operating  
loss was £7 .6 million (2015: £2.0 million). 
Adjusted earnings per share from continuing 
operations was 2.4 pence (2015: 1.8 pence), 
while loss per share from continuing 
operations was 17 .2 pence (2015: 8.1 pence).
The Group’s closing capacity in Children’s 
Services has remained flat at 1,744 places 
with average utilisation of 74% (2015: 72%).
Sale of Adult Services
On 5 December 2016, after a competitive 
process, we announced the sale of the 
Adult Services business for consideration  
of £379 million to a subsidiary of Universal 
Health Services, Inc. which is a major NYSE 
listed acute care and behavioural health 
services provider. The transaction, which 
was not conditional on approval by the 
Competition and Markets Authority, 
completed on 28 December 2016.
As part of the transaction, we have entered 
into a Transitional Services Agreement with  
a term of not less than six months and not 
more than nine months. On an agreed 
compensation basis, Cambian will provide 
specific services relating to IT, finance, 
procurement and estates to ensure a 
smooth transition of the services and  
the patients for which it cares.
Repayment of bank debt
The net cash inflow after transaction costs  
of £374 million from the sale of the Adult 
Services business was used to repay the 
whole of the outstanding bank debt, which 
amounted to £286 million, on completion  
of the sale. The Group had net cash of  
£116 million on 31 December 2016.
Return of capital
Further to our announcement on 5 December 
2016, the Group now intends to increase the 
return of capital to shareholders from £40 
million to £50 million from the net proceeds 
of the disposal. Having taken advice and 
consulted with major shareholders, the 
Board has determined that the best way  
of effecting the return of capital is by way  
of a special dividend. This is still subject to  
a number of conditions, including creation  
of sufficient distributable reserves and final 
Board approval, which is expected to be 
announced by the end of the first half of 2017 
and paid thereafter.
The net cash balances of the Group after 
implementing the return of capital will be 
used to invest in and grow our Children’s 
Services business. 
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 4
Chairman’s statement
A year of 
improvements
“The sale of the Adult Services 
business will allow the Cambian 
Group to focus on being a market 
leading provider of Children’s 
Services, where the Board 
sees significant opportunities 
for growth, development and 
shareholder value.”
Christopher Kemball
Chairman Future dividend policy
The Board intends to resume its progressive 
dividend policy this year and expects to pay 
an interim dividend for the first six months of 
the financial year, the amount of which will 
be determined by the performance of the 
business during this period. The interim 
dividend will be declared with the interim 
results announcement.
Senior management changes
On 28 December 2016, we appointed  
Anne Marie Carrie as Chief Operating Officer 
and a member of the Board. Anne Marie has 
run the Children’s Services division for the last 
two years. She has extensive experience in 
the care services sector, having been 
previously Chief Executive Officer of 
Barnardo’s (the UK’s largest children’s charity) 
and director of children’s services at The 
Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
We are also delighted that, as announced 
on 15 February 2017 , Anoop Kang will be 
joining as Chief Financial Officer in July 2017 . 
Anoop was previously Group Financial 
Controller at Kier Group plc and, prior to 
that, held senior financial positions in the 
construction industry. He is a qualified ACA 
and graduate of Birmingham University. 
Anoop has very relevant experience in the 
improvement of financial systems and 
processes, investor relations and M&A.
Our current Chief Financial Officer, Martin 
Hopcroft, will provide a handover to his 
successor. Martin joined us in late 2015  
and has been instrumental in reaching  
a negotiated settlement with our lending 
banks and in significantly improving our 
financial systems and controls. He leaves  
to pursue his independent career with the 
best wishes and thanks of the Board and 
management for an excellent job done.
Other Board changes
As previously announced, Alison Halsey, 
Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee, and 
Christopher Brinsmead, Senior Independent 
Director and Chair of the Remuneration 
Committee, have indicated their wish to 
step down from the Board at the conclusion 
of the Company’s Annual General Meeting 
which will be held on 5 June 2017 . On behalf 
of the entire Board and staff of Cambian, I 
would like to thank them for their unstinting 
support and commitment.
As disclosed in the Class 1 Circular relating  
to the sale of the Adult division published  
on 9 December 2016, we have decided  
to establish a separate Quality and 
Safeguarding Committee which is chaired 
by Dr Graham Rich. Graham is currently a 
senior adviser to Boston Consulting Group, 
having previously been its director of health 
services. He is a qualified doctor and has 
held senior positions in the National Health 
Service, including Chief Executive and  
Chief Operating Officer of two healthcare 
organisations. The quality of our care for 
children and young people is paramount 
and the establishment of this committee 
provides additional oversight and control  
of our systems and processes.
At the same time, Mike Butterworth  
was appointed Chair of the Audit 
Committee. Mike is an experienced public 
company financial executive, having been 
Chief Financial Officer of Cookson Group  
plc from 2005 to 2013, and is now a 
non-executive director of several publicly 
listed companies. I am sure that he will be  
a good mentor for our new Chief Financial 
Officer, while ensuring rigorous oversight  
of our financial team and risk management.
Future strategy and outlook
Cambian is now a pure children’s 
behavioural services and specialist 
education business, offering a full range of 
essential services from therapeutic fostering 
through to specialist schools and residential 
care, covering autism, mental health, and 
sexual abuse and exploitation. As at the 
end of 2016, we managed 224 facilities and 
employed over 4,400 staff, looking after 
1,270 children and young people.
We are currently one of the largest specialist 
children’s services providers, and we operate 
in a highly fragmented market. Our Board 
believes that we have a significant opportunity 
to grow the business through a combination 
of organic growth and prudent bolt-on 
acquisitions. In addition to our cash balances, 
we have secured, subject to documentation, a 
medium-term revolving credit facility of £30m 
to support our measured growth plans, and 
the Board’s current intention is that, in the 
medium term, net debt will not exceed 1.5 
times Adjusted EBITDA.
The year has started overall in line with  
the Board’s expectations as we continue  
to grow our occupancy levels. Our focus will  
be on managing the Transitional Services 
Agreement, continuing to build out our 
existing portfolio, further improving our 
financial systems and processes, and 
rightsizing our cost base, bearing in mind 
that we are contractually bound under the 
Transitional Services Agreement to continue 
to provide specified services until at least 
the middle of the year.
Our staff
We have continued to make improvements  
in our pay scales and career training and 
qualifications for our staff, taking in to account 
the phased introduction of the Government’s 
National Living Wage. We have managed to 
recover the increased cost of our overall 
wages bill through selective price increases.
As always, our aim of achieving the best 
possible outcomes for the children and 
young people placed in our care depends 
on the skill and dedication of our staff. The 
Board thanks all our staff for their hard work 
and tremendous dedication to those placed 
in our care throughout the year.
Christopher Kemball
Chairman
26 April 2017
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
Strategic report Strategic report
