 Overview
We began 2016 with a clear agenda: 
continue to implement our remedial action 
programme; meet our obligations under  
the amended bank facilities; and deliver  
the highest quality specialist services our 
customers demand.
I am pleased to report that we  
made significant progress across  
all three objectives.
• Following the disposal of the Adult 
Services division at the end of the year  
for consideration of £379 million, we 
were able to pay down fully the Group’s 
bank debt and announce the intention  
to return capital to shareholders.
• Our remedial actions have delivered 
improvements across our systems and 
the business is now managed more 
rigorously, in particular on cost control. 
Ongoing remedial work, especially with 
our management information systems, 
will remain a priority during 2017.
• Our focus on delivering higher severity 
services and to the highest quality to meet 
our customers’ demands saw occupancy 
increase across our existing capacity. 
Business Performance
Following the disposal of the Adult Services 
business at the end of the year, these results 
“ Our vision is clear and 
deliverable: to become the 
highest quality provider 
of specialist education 
and behavioural health 
services for children.”
Saleem Asaria 
Chief Executive Officer
will be the last time we report on the 
combined Children’s Services and Adult 
Services businesses.
On a combined basis, revenue increased  
by 12% to £324.1 million (2015: £290.1 million). 
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 6% to 
£45.0 million (2015: £42.5 million), giving an 
Adjusted EBITDA margin of 14% (2015: 15%). 
Operating profit was £3.3 million (2015:  
£7 .6 million loss). After the profit on sale of 
discontinued operations, earnings per share 
from continuing and discontinued operations 
was 68.4 pence (2015: 5.4 pence loss).
On a combined basis, the Group’s average 
utilisation was 81% (2015: 78%), while total 
capacity finished the year at 1,744 places 
(2015: 1,762 places) after the sale of the  
Adult Services business.
Children’s Services
Revenue increased by 13% to £182.1 million 
(2015: £160.7 million) reflecting an increase  
in average capacity to 1,751 places (2015: 1,621 
places) and average utilisation improved  
to 74% (2015: 72%). Adjusted EBITDA was 
£16.2 million (2015: £18.4 million) reflecting 
increased revenue offset by additional  
costs from extended negotiations on  
fee increases, provision for sleep-ins  
and repositioning of some services.
In 2015, we took the strategic decision  
to develop an integrated recovery model 
incorporating care, education and therapy 
focused on children and young people with 
the highest needs. Following a restructuring 
of our services in 2016, including our 
fostering offering, and investment in 
upskilling our staff capabilities, we have 
repositioned the majority of our services  
to a differentiated high severity offering.
With increasing demand for our services and 
closing utilisation at 73%, we see significant 
potential to increase occupancy levels.
Adult Services
Revenue for the period increased by 10% to 
£142.0 million (2015: £129.5 million). Average 
capacity was 1,206 places (2015: 1,208 
places) while average utilisation was 92% 
(2015: 87%). Adjusted EBITDA was £28.8 
million (2015: £24.1 million) reflecting 
increased revenue.
2017: a year of transition
The disposal of the Adult Services business 
followed a strategic review of options to pay 
down the Group’s bank debt in full and to 
best position the business for the future.  
The review concluded that the increasing 
demand for specialist children’s services 
and the shortage of specialist provision 
provided a major opportunity for Cambian.
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 6
Chief Executive’s strategic review
Opportunities  
for growth education and behavioural health services  
for children. To this end, last year we took the 
strategic decision to develop our Children’s 
Services business around a differentiated 
integrated recovery model incorporating care, 
education and therapy for children with the 
highest needs. In addition, our continued 
investment and work in outcome development 
will enable us to demonstrate our progress 
and achievements to our customers.
We start from a strong market leading 
position. Cambian is one of the largest 
independent providers of residential 
facilities, special education schools and 
therapeutic fostering services for children.
We also have the right components in place 
to further develop our offering:
• A well-invested estate of specialist care 
homes, day and residential schools, and 
foster families, which is unique in the UK.
• A bespoke delivery model comprising 
five core elements (safety, stabilisation, 
education, therapeutic intervention and 
parenting experience) designed to take 
the child in care through to adulthood 
“with a future”.
• A high quality and highly skilled 
workforce led by an experienced 
management team.
Our focus through the transitional period  
will be to fill existing capacity and increase 
margins. Thereafter, within strict parameters 
including a commitment over the medium 
term that net debt will not exceed 1.5 times 
Adjusted EBITDA, we will develop the 
business through a combination of  
organic and acquisitive growth.
It is our aspiration to significantly increase 
the size of our business and the number of 
children we positively support over the next 
five years.
Fees
We support the phased introduction of the 
National Living Wage, and we continue to 
seek to cover the cost to Cambian of its 
progressive application through selective 
increases to service fees for all new and 
some existing users.
Quality and Regulatory
We are committed to providing the highest 
quality behavioural health services for 
children. The quality of our care for children 
and young people is paramount.
Meanwhile, the sector continues to see  
an increasingly stringent regulatory 
environment with an enhanced rigour of 
inspections, which we both welcome and 
are well-positioned to benefit from, in this 
drive to improve the focus on quality of care.
It is pleasing to report that our regulatory 
scores remain strong, with 83% of Children’s 
Services rated good or outstanding with 
Ofsted or Care Quality Commission as at 
31 December 2016, notwithstanding the 
continuing raising of quality standards.
We announced at the end of last year that 
we would establish a separate Quality & 
Safeguarding Committee. This is now up 
and running and is chaired by Dr Graham 
Rich, who joined the Board in 2015.
Summary and Outlook
We have an established reputation  
as a high-quality and valued service 
provider. With a well-invested estate,  
sound finances and improved systems,  
we have the opportunity to take the  
Group to its next stage of development  
as a focused and market leading Children’s 
Services business with attractive margins 
and good growth prospects. 
We remain confident for the medium-term 
outlook and the Group’s longer-term 
potential, while in the short-term we are 
focused on completing the separation of  
the Adult Services business from the Group.
 
Saleem Asaria
Chief Executive Officer 
26 April 2017
1,300
Total average occupancy 
2016
1
1,751
Total average  
capacity 2016
1
The Company intends to become the market 
leading provider of specialist children’s 
services where there are significant 
opportunities for growth, development  
and creation of shareholder value. It is our 
intention to start growing the business in  
a measured way through organic growth, 
and bolt-on acquisitions next year.
Before we can fully realise the opportunities 
we have identified, we have first to complete 
the complex separation of the Adult Services 
business from the Group, and we are 
carrying some additional overheads to 
meet our obligations under the Transitional 
Services Agreement. Once these have  
been addressed, the business will have  
the opportunity to significantly improve 
margins from next year.
We will also be able to fully focus our 
resources on the strategic development and 
roll-out of the Children’s Services business at 
a time of significant and growing demand 
for its critical services.
The opportunity for the Children’s 
Services business
There is a recognised shortage of high 
quality specialist education and behavioural 
health services for children in the UK. The 
higher the severity of need, the more 
significant the shortage.
There are over 1.9 million children in the UK 
(approximately 16% of the total number of 
children in the country) with developmental 
disabilities of whom just under 200,000 
would be classed as high severity and of 
which 88,000 would fall into Cambian’s core 
target market. Cambian is one of the UK’s 
major providers of specialist services and 
currently has a total capacity of 1,744 places 
and over 600 fostering places.
These requirements will continue to 
increase in the near term as advances  
in diagnostics and processes are likely  
to increase the formal identification of the 
number of children in need faster than the 
supply of additional capacity year-on-year.
Our vision is clear and deliverable: to become 
the highest quality provider of specialist 1 In respect of continuing operations only.
Cambian Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
Strategic report Strategic report
