 Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
2 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report
The company delivered a positive 
NAV total return of 2.6%. Our long 
term diversified portfolio of both 
quoted and unquoted investments 
provided mitigation to the continued 
volatility of the markets and we 
continued our rolling ten year 
outperformance against the  
FTSE All-Share. The portfolio continues 
to provide a growing income and we 
are pleased to have increased our 
annual dividend by 4.0%, the 49th 
consecutive year of increase.
Results
Caledonia delivered a positive net asset value per share total return 
(‘NAVTR’) of 2.6% for the year ended 31 March 2016, compared with 
14.2% for the previous year. We do not seek to benchmark our 
performance over as short a period as a year, but rather our 
objective is to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return over ten 
years. This we have achieved over the last ten years when our 
NAVTR was 71.6%. Over shorter periods, we aim to produce overall 
annualised returns of between RPI+3% and RPI+6% and this has 
been delivered.
Background to the year in listed equities
Over the year, the FTSE All-Share Total Return fell by 3.9%, though 
the S&P 500 remained flat. Equity markets in both the US and 
Europe suffered two significant falls during the year, in August 2015 
and in January 2016. The bull market in commodity related stocks 
is well and truly over, following sharp falls in the price of oil and gas 
and other basic commodities. However, markets recovered their 
poise within a couple of months on both occasions, as the 
requirement for income drove investors back into yielding equity 
investments. Having taken money out of the market last year, we 
took advantage of the market volatility during the year to make 
selective purchases of high quality businesses that match our 
Quoted pool’s long term strategy.
Caledonia’s competitive advantage in private 
equity markets
The private equity market is flush with capital looking to be invested. 
This is being provided by funds which have very significant unutilised 
commitments and banks which are once again offering high levels of 
debt but at very low rates. The result is keen competition for, and 
pricing of, private equity money. It is therefore vital for us to be able 
to differentiate ourselves from the competition in order to attract 
deals at sensible prices. In this regard, Caledonia has two significant 
advantages.
The first is the fact that we are a closed-ended investment trust with 
a long term supportive family shareholder, which enables us to 
invest for considerably longer than the majority of those who 
operate in unlisted markets, often for over a decade. Our main 
competition comes from the private equity industry, which raises 
money through funds and promises to deliver it back to fund 
holders within a designated period. This rarely allows them to invest 
for longer than five to seven years, whereas we have no such time 
constraints. If an investee company continues to perform and its 
management are of sufficient quality, we are able to remain as a 
shareholder rather than be forced by the time limits of a particular 
fund to have to sell our investment.
The second is our reputation. We strive to be fair and to work 
alongside management teams rather than, as is so often the case, 
take a view that managements work for us. We call this a ‘hands 
with’ rather than a ‘hands on’ approach. We believe that our 
established reputation for being a good partner for management 
teams continues to give us an advantage in the marketplace.
These characteristics have led to two interesting new investments 
this year, Seven Investment Management and Gala Bingo. Both 
companies were purchased without having to enter into an auction 
process, as the vendors and the managements believed that we 
would deliver on our promises and that we would be the right home 
for their businesses.
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p2.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U 3
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Investment performance
We take a longer term perspective when assessing Caledonia’s 
investment performance. The construction of our portfolio, with its 
significant portion of unquoted investments and lack of correlation 
to any particular equity market, has led the board to measure 
performance by comparing Caledonia’s NAVTR with the FTSE 
All-Share Total Return index over rolling ten year periods. History 
shows that a consistent performance of RPI+3% to RPI+6% will 
deliver a return that will outperform most markets over ten years. 
The table below shows a summary of performance against RPI for 
periods up to ten years and against the FTSE All-Share for ten years:
1 year 
% 
3 years 
% 
5 years 
% 
10 years 
% 
NAV total return 2.6 34.9 49.2 71.6 
Annualised
NAV total return 2.6 10.5 8.3 5.5 
Retail Prices Index 1.6 1.6 2.3 3.0 
Performance against RPI 1.0 8.9 6.0 2.5 
FTSE All-Share Total Return 4.7 
Performance against FTSE 0.8 
The graph below shows that Caledonia’s returns remain ahead of 
those of the FTSE All-Share over rolling ten year periods, although 
recently have slipped marginally below our RPI target area as 
designated by the shaded zone.
Annualised ten year rolling performance
RPI+3% to RPI+6% Caledonia NAVTR
03/06 03/08 03/10 03/12 03/14 03/16
15
10
5
0
%
FTSE All-Share TR
Income
Portfolio income for the year rose by 7 .3% to £50.2m which, 
after expenses, fully covered the dividend for the year. We place 
a strong emphasis on income yield in our investment strategy, 
as this ensures that we purchase cash generative companies 
which have the ability not only to increase their capital value but 
also to pay growing dividends to their shareholders on an annual 
basis. This supports our objective of paying an increasing annual 
dividend to our shareholders, which we have now done for 
49 consecutive years.
Expenses
Our ongoing charges ratio for the year was 1.01%, compared 
with 0.96% in 2015 on a like-for-like basis. The increase primarily 
reflected the costs of temporary office accommodation whilst our 
head office is being refurbished. Caledonia’s business model, which 
includes significant investment in unquoted businesses, requires 
more resource than a pure quoted equity portfolio, hence we 
have higher costs than a typical listed fund manager. For the first 
time this year, we have allocated share award costs relating to 
our performance-based incentive schemes to capital, in line 
with industry practice.
Balance sheet and cash
At the year end, our balance sheet was ungeared with a net 
cash position of £22.9m, compared with net cash of £131.0m at 
31 March 2015. During the year, we made investments totalling 
£406m and divestments of £315m, excluding purchases and sales 
within the Income & Growth pool. The two most substantial new 
investments were £74m in Seven Investment Management and 
£92m in Gala Bingo. We received proceeds of £79m from the sale 
of TGE Marine and distributions of £50m from the Capital Today 
China fund following further realisations of its holding in JD.com.
Strategy
The Cayzer family, whose ancestors built from scratch the business 
from which Caledonia derives its origins and who now owns 
some 48% of the company, takes a long term view. The stability 
and inter-generational time horizon of the family shareholding 
and other shareholders have helped to define Caledonia’s strategy, 
which remains to seek long term capital growth combined with 
an increasing annual dividend. This is executed by investing in 
two principal markets, listed equity and private equity. The 
company is managed via four ‘pools of capital’ covering both these 
markets, each with an allocated amount of capital and carefully 
designed return targets which reflect the risk appetite of the 
shareholder base.
During the year, the board carried out a detailed review of the 
strategy adopted in 2011. This concluded that the strategy 
had delivered good returns to date and should continue to do so. 
It is important to re-emphasise the key tenets of this strategy:
Strategic aims
• To grow capital value over the long term measured in real terms
• To pay an increasing annual dividend, which grows at or in excess 
of inflation over the long term
• To manage risk commensurate with shareholders’ requirements 
and our investment horizon.
Investment strategy
The portfolio is structured to deliver these strategic aims through:
• A long term investment horizon (ten years or longer), investing 
in quoted and unquoted businesses and funds that accumulate 
value over that time period
• A diversity of investment markets via pools that together reflect 
our risk/return aims
• A sustainable and increasing annual cash yield that is a prominent 
part of total return and covers annual dividends and expenses.
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p3.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
4 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report continued
Performance measurement
• To deliver annual average total returns of between RPI+3% and 
RPI+6% which, based on history, should deliver performance over 
a ten year period in line with or above most share indices, 
including the FTSE All-Share.
The board however agreed to make several minor adjustments 
to the strategy:
• To make some changes to the allocation ranges of some of 
the pools
• To increase the Funds pool’s exposure to private equity funds 
in the US and Asia through further commitments and to reduce 
its exposure to quoted market funds in those regions
• To reduce the Funds pool’s strategic requirement for income 
to zero, reflecting the structure of the funds in which it invests
• To reduce the target return for the Income & Growth pool from 
10% to 7%, reflecting its required risk/return profile.
The resultant portfolio and strategic targets at current allocations 
are as follows:
Pool
Income 
% 
Capital 
% 
Total
% 
Target 
allocation 
% 
Current 
allocation 
% 
Quoted 2.5 7.5 10.0 25-40 27.3 
Income & Growth 4.5 2.5 7.0 15-20 11.8 
Unquoted 5.0 9.0 14.0 35-45 39.3 
Funds – 12.5 12.5 15-20 18.8 
Liquidity    (10)-10 2.8 
Review of portfolio
The portfolio, before expenses and other net assets were taken into 
account, returned 4.1% for the year under review. Excluding 
transactions within the Income & Growth pool, we invested more 
than £400m during the course of the year, equivalent to some 
25% of the portfolio. Of this, some 40% was attributed to the 
Unquoted pool, with the two sizeable acquisitions of Seven 
Investment Management and Gala Bingo, and 40% to the Quoted 
pool. Realisations totalled £315m, with TGE Marine, Capital Today 
China and Quintain Estates being the largest.
Pool
Value 
2015 
£m 
Invest- 
ments 
£m 
Disposals 
£m 
Other 
move- 
ments 
£m 
Value 
2016 
£m 
Income 
£m 
Return 
% 
Quoted 447.7 156.9 (112.9) (42.4) 449.3 13.9 (7.0)
Income & 
Growth 202.1 142.6 (135.8) (14.8) 194.1 8.6 (0.4)
Unquoted 510.3 171.5 (88.6) 53.1 646.3 25.8 15.2 
Funds 327.7 77.6 (113.6) 16.7 308.4 1.9 5.9 
Portfolio 1,487.8 548.6 (450.9) 12.6 1,598.1 50.2 4.1 
Other 139.1 46.2  
Net assets 1,626.9 1,644.3 2.6 
The Unquoted pool produced a 15.2% return, which was 
commendable and included over £26m of income, an uplift of 12% 
over the previous year. The main driver of value was our investment 
in Park Holidays, where profitability increased significantly for the 
second consecutive year, enabling a refinancing of its bank facilities 
and payment of a special dividend just after the year end. The Funds 
pool also produced a respectable return of 5.9%, especially 
considering that over a third of its investments are in quoted market 
funds. These pools provide a good mitigation to the more volatile 
returns of the quoted equity markets. The Quoted pool suffered 
from its holding in Bristow Group falling considerably in value, 
though in line with the oil price. This pool, however, took advantage 
of the fall in equity markets in August to add several new holdings. 
The Income & Growth pool demonstrated its robust nature in the 
face of falling markets, ending the year with a broadly flat overall 
return. This was a particularly good effort, for which Jonathan Greig, 
in his first year as the manager of the fund, should take credit.
The changes to pool allocations have been mentioned in the 
strategy section above. The only pool currently outside its strategic 
range, some 3% below its lower range, is Income & Growth. This 
reflects the nature of the pool which we use, alongside cash and 
facilities, to provide liquidity or a store for capital as and when 
required. The exact timing of our larger investments and 
divestments from the Unquoted pool is difficult to estimate and 
the liquid nature of the Income & Growth pool adds to our flexibility.
Overview of pool performance
Quoted (£449m, 27% of net assets)
We invest in companies with established business models, strong 
balance sheets and good returns on capital and strong annual 
cash flows.
The Quoted pool produced a negative total return of 7 .0% for 
the year. Performance was held back by falls in the share price 
of Bristow Group and AG Barr, in which we have large holdings. 
Having taken profits from Bristow a couple of years ago and with 
our deep knowledge of the business gathered from over 25 years 
as an investor, we felt comfortable in adding to our holding at an 
advantageous price. AG Barr suffered from poor investor sentiment 
whilst the sugar tax argument raged in political circles. We have 
owned an 8% stake in this company for many years and believe that 
its prospects remain good, led by an excellent management team. 
Other notable detractors from performance were Rolls-Royce, 
which we sold following several profit warnings, and Avanti 
Communications, in which we significantly reduced our stake in 
the early part of the year.
On the bright side, more recent additions to the portfolio, including 
Microsoft, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Unilever, British American 
Tobacco and Colgate Palmolive, all produced returns of over 20%. 
Quintain Estates was taken over during the year at a good premium 
and Hill & Smith continued to produce excellent results that 
translated into a strong share price performance.
Annual return targets
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p4.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U 5
Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
We have been overall sellers in the quoted markets for several 
years, as valuations have become stretched, although the occasional 
market hiccup has allowed us to deploy some capital, as happened 
in August this year. However, we remain wary of high market levels, 
low investor confidence and signs that GDP growth is slowing a little.
Income & Growth (£194m, 12% of net assets)
We invest in a portfolio of liquid global equities that produces a 
reliable and increasing income stream.
The portfolio was repositioned earlier in the year to take a more 
defensive stance. With the benefit of hindsight, this proved well 
timed and the result for the year, a flat return, compared well with a 
market that retreated by 4%. The pool also returned a 4.1% dividend 
yield, which helped to underpin our overall income requirement.
Unquoted (£646m, 39% of net assets)
We invest in unlisted businesses requiring capital and an investor 
with a balance sheet who is able to provide a long term perspective. 
We mainly invest in majority positions.
The Unquoted pool returned over 15% for the year under review, 
including over £25m of income. Park Holidays was the outstanding 
performer in the pool, producing a total return of 63% over the 
course of the year, which included a £12m dividend. In addition, 
Cobehold, the Belgian investment company, produced a healthy 
23% sterling return after a couple of flat years.
The market remains busy with plenty of businesses available for 
purchase, the Unquoted team reviewing over 220 during the year. 
We sold one business during the year, TGE Marine for £79m, and 
since the year end have realised our stake in Bowers & Wilkins, the 
premium audio equipment manufacturer, for £24m. We made two 
purchases during the year, Seven Investment Management (‘7IM’) 
for £74m and Gala Bingo for £92m. Both businesses fit our criteria 
well and have made good starts in the portfolio.
7IM is a fast growing wealth 
management company with 
funds under management of 
£10bn. The experienced 
management team, who started 
7IM 11 years ago, were introduced to Caledonia whilst searching for 
replacement shareholders and we were pleased that we had the 
characteristics that they were looking for in a shareholder.
Gala Coral had been searching for a 
purchaser for its retail bingo business prior 
to its merger with Ladbrokes. The head of 
our Unquoted team knew the business 
well from earlier in his career and we were 
able to agree terms to buy this substantial 
and cash generative company, because of 
our ability to move quickly to close the deal.
Since 2011, when Caledonia’s new strategy was implemented, the 
pool has produced an annualised return of 12.4%. Over the past 
three years this has increased to 17 .4%. The objective of the pool is 
to produce consistent returns, both on capital and income accounts, 
without taking too much risk. The businesses that we have 
purchased over the past five years reflect this strategy and have 
the capability of producing good returns in the future.
Funds (£308m, 19% of net assets)
We invest in both private equity and quoted market funds, with 
an emphasis on providing exposure to areas of the world where 
we are less willing to invest directly.
The Funds pool return of 5.9% was respectable considering the 
volatile markets in Asia where we have several quoted market fund 
investments. We took the opportunity created by market weakness 
to top up several holdings, including PVAM Perlus Microcap, 
Arlington AVM Ranger, Macquarie Asia New Stars and NTAsian.
The private equity portfolio continued to perform well and we 
made several new commitments during the course of the year 
to funds in the US and Asia.
We received distributions of £50m from the Capital Today China 
fund, a large portion of which was proceeds from its sale of JD.com. 
This fund has produced a return of 11.7x money invested and an 
IRR of 47 .5% so far over its ten year life. Kathy Xu, the manager, 
has delivered outstanding results, having backed four separate 
businesses that have returned over 10x the initial investment. 
We consider ourselves fortunate to have been a cornerstone 
investor in this fund.
Looking ahead, the Funds pool will increase its exposure to private 
equity funds, particularly in the US which is a mature market, and 
also in Asia, though at a lower rate due to the infancy of this market.
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p5.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: CyanMagentaYellowBlackPANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
6 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Chairman’s and Chief Executive’s report continued
Dividend and discount
The company paid an interim dividend of 14.3p on 7 January 2016 
and a second interim of 38.3p on 1 April 2016 making a total for 
the year of 52.6p, the 49th consecutive year in which the annual 
dividend has been raised. No final dividend is proposed. The 
dividend is a vital component of our return to shareholders and the 
strategy of the company is focused on its maintenance and steady 
increase. During the year, the discount of the share price to our 
NAV per share ranged between 12% and 26% and the share price 
rose marginally, from 2281p at the beginning of the year to 2285p, 
whereas the FTSE All-Share fell by some 7%.
We did not make any share buybacks during the year, but we will 
again seek the necessary permissions from shareholders at the 
AGM to buy in shares should they offer particular value.
Board
Robert Woods stepped down from the board in March 2016. 
He joined in 2011 at a time of strategic change at Caledonia and his 
depth of experience and wisdom was a particular source of strength 
for the company and management during his time on the board. 
We wish him well in his retirement and will miss his insights into 
the world of trade that stemmed from his career in shipping.
Outlook
We are faced with several seminal moments this year. There 
is a referendum on British membership of the EU and the US 
Presidential election, both of which have the potential to destabilise 
the existing order. There is a lack of fundamental confidence in GDP 
growth, be it in China, the US, Europe, or at home in the UK. The 
central bankers have utilised extreme monetary policies to stimulate 
economies without much effect and seemingly have few tools to 
bring to bear if growth deteriorates. Equity markets have witnessed 
a prolonged period of growth but are seemingly expensive, perhaps 
lacking the underlying earnings growth from companies to justify 
those valuations. However, investors have few alternative options, 
with bond yields at record lows.
We have invested in companies that have consistent and 
dependable cash flows, such that they are able to pay us annual 
dividends whilst continuing to grow steadily. We have exposure 
through the listed markets to some of the world’s leading brands 
that will continue to sell goods to consumers and businesses alike 
whatever the state of the economy and our unquoted portfolio 
complements and diversifies the shorter term volatility of the 
quoted markets. This gives us confidence that we will be able to 
meet our shareholders’ requirements for capital growth and income 
over the longer term, without needing to expose their capital to 
undue risk.
Rod Kent Will Wyatt
Chairman  Chief Executive
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p6.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U
