 Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
35 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Directors’ remuneration report
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee ensures 
that remuneration arrangements 
support the strategic aims of the 
business and enable the recruitment, 
motivation and retention of senior 
executives of the calibre needed 
to manage and grow the company 
successfully.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce Caledonia’s Directors’ 
remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2016.
The report reproduces the principal elements of the remuneration policy 
which was approved by shareholders at the 2014 annual general meeting 
and which provides the current framework within which we incentivise 
and reward our senior executive team and pay fees to our non-executive 
board members. No changes to this policy are proposed at this year’s 
annual general meeting, although the policy is due for renewal in 2017 
and therefore one of the key tasks for the Remuneration Committee for 
the year ahead will be to review Caledonia’s current remuneration policies 
and practices to ensure that they remain fully aligned with the company’s 
strategy and that they reinforce and contribute to our overall objective 
of creating sustained value for shareholders over the long term.
In this introductory statement, I have set out a summary of the 
implementation of the remuneration policy in respect of the year ended 
31 March 2016 and how we intend to approach remuneration for the 
2017 financial year. Detailed disclosure and explanations of the 
remuneration paid to directors in the year ended 31 March 2016 are 
included in the Annual report on directors’ remuneration, which will 
be put to an advisory vote of shareholders at the annual general meeting 
on 21 July 2016.
Remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2016
Against a background of volatile markets in which the FTSE All-Share Total 
Return index (‘FTSE index’) fell by 3.9%, Caledonia’s net asset value per 
share total return (‘NAVTR’) was 2.6%, slightly below the minimum 3% 
threshold set by the Remuneration Committee for bonus purposes. 
Accordingly, none of the executive directors received any bonus on the 
basis of the company’s performance. The Funds pool, led by Jamie 
Cayzer-Colvin, achieved a total return of 5.9%, but again this was below 
the minimum threshold of 6% set for this pool and therefore he received 
no bonus for pool performance. The Funds pool has however continued 
to make significant progress in identifying, and gaining access to, high 
quality funds in Asia and the US and in building a pipeline of potential 
future fund commitments. The Remuneration Committee therefore felt 
it appropriate to award Mr Cayzer-Colvin a bonus of 48.25% of basic 
salary in relation to his pool and personal objectives. The Remuneration 
Committee also determined to award Will Wyatt and Stephen King 45% 
of basic salary in respect of the achievement of individual objectives 
set for them at the beginning of the year.
The year to 31 March 2016 also represented the end of the three year 
performance measurement period for all of the matching share awards 
granted in 2013 under the company’s deferred bonus plan and half of 
the awards granted in that year under its performance share scheme. 
For the deferred bonus plan matching awards, the performance targets 
were that, for two-thirds of the shares comprised in an award, Caledonia’s 
NAVTR had to outperform the FTSE index and, for the other third, the 
FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts (all-stocks) Total Return index (‘Gilts 
index’) over the three year measurement period, in each case with shares 
vesting on a graduated basis between 0.5% and 3.5% outperformance. 
Both of these targets were comfortably met, with Caledonia’s NAVTR 
outperforming the FTSE index by 24.5% and the Gilts index by 14.9% over 
the three year period, and accordingly these awards have vested in full.
For the awards granted under the performance share scheme, half were 
to be measured against the Gilts index over three years and half against 
the FTSE index over five years, with the same graduated vesting scale 
applying as described for the deferred bonus plan matching awards 
above. The half of the awards measured against the Gilts index have 
accordingly vested in full and those to be measured against the FTSE 
index will be tested in two years’ time.
Membership and attendance
The membership and attendance record of the Remuneration Committee 
during the year was as follows:
Meetings 
attended 
Meetings 
eligible 
to attend 
C H Gregson (Chairman) 4 4
S C R Jemmett-Page
1
1 1
D C Stewart 4 4
R B Woods
2
4 4
1. Mrs Jemmett-Page was appointed a member of the committee on 1 July 2015.
2. Mr Woods retired as a member of the committee on 31 March 2016.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the company’s auditor to report to the 
shareholders on certain parts of the directors’ remuneration report and 
to state whether, in its opinion, those parts of the report have been 
properly prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized 
Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) (Amendment) Regulations 
2013. The parts of the Annual report on directors’ remuneration that 
have been audited are indicated in that report. The Annual statement 
by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration 
policy are not subject to audit.
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p35.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Other information
36 Annual report 2016 Caledonia Investments plc  
Remuneration for the year ending 31 March 2017
Looking ahead to the 2017 financial year, basic salaries of executive 
directors, other than Mr Wyatt, have been increased with effect from 
1 April 2016 by 1.0%, broadly in line with inflation, which was the same as 
the standard increase given to all of the company’s staff. Mr Wyatt’s basic 
salary has not been increased and therefore remains the same as in 2015. 
The Chairman’s and the non-executive directors’ fees are reviewed on 
a triennial basis and, since these were last increased in April 2014, they 
have not been changed. 
We plan to make performance share scheme and deferred bonus plan 
awards following the release of our 2016 full year results announcement 
in line with our normal grant cycle. These will be subject to the same 
performance measures used for the 2015 award grants, which are 
summarised in the remuneration policy table on pages 39 and 40.
Malus and clawback
In 2014, provisions were introduced into Caledonia’s performance 
share scheme and deferred bonus plan which give the Remuneration 
Committee the right to cancel or reduce unvested awards in the 
event of a material misstatement of the company’s financial results, 
a miscalculation of a participant’s entitlement, misconduct on the part 
of the participant or an event resulting in material loss or reputational 
damage to the company or a member of the group. These are known 
as ‘malus’ provisions.
In September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code (‘Code’) 
was issued, which included a provision that all performance related 
incentive schemes for executive directors operated by UK listed 
companies should include not only malus provisions, but also 
arrangements to recover amounts of variable remuneration after it has 
been paid (known as ‘clawback’). The Code is not specific as to the period 
of time over which clawback should operate, nor the circumstances in 
which it should be applied, and the Remuneration Committee has been 
advised that, since only malus provisions were included in the current 
remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2014, it would be 
necessary to seek formal shareholder approval to amend the policy 
should clawback provisions be introduced. As a consequence, the 
Remuneration Committee decided last year to see how market practice in 
relation to clawback developed before making a decision as to whether to 
introduce it to Caledonia’s performance related incentive schemes.
Twelve months on, it is clear that increasingly listed companies are 
adopting, or committing to adopt, both malus and clawback provisions 
and accordingly our Remuneration Committee has resolved to introduce 
clawback into Caledonia’s performance related incentive schemes. 
However, in view of the need for shareholders’ approval, it proposes to 
do so as part of the next scheduled remuneration policy renewal in 2017 , 
in line with the GC100 guidance.
Charles Gregson
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
19 May 2016
Directors’ remuneration report continued
Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
Job Name: 63165z DK Caledonia AR 2016
PDF Page: Caledonia AR 2016_Text v2TP.p36.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: PANTONE 281 U PANTONE 367 U PANTONE Cool Gray 11 U
