 Candover 
Report and accounts 2009 04
CEO’s report
Our priority over the last year has been to 
implement a plan that would deliver improved 
stability for the Company and we have made  
good progress.
Performance
The Company’s net assets per share increased by 1.2% over the 
year to 1038p (2008: 1026p) after non-recurring exceptional costs 
of £17.1 million and adverse currency movements of £20.2 million. 
At the half year we reported a 12.1% decrease in net assets per 
share, but in the second half of the year there was a steady recovery 
in the underlying value of the portfolio, resulting in net assets per 
share up 15.1% at the year end. This was mainly due to an increase 
in the multiples derived from the quoted markets which we use 
when valuing our assets. 
Asset sales made a major contribution to our stabilisation, with the 
sale of Wood Mackenzie by Candover Partners in July substantially 
improving our financial position. The Company received cash 
proceeds of £36.4 million, which included £16.8 million from the 
crystallisation of carried interest payments from the Candover 2001 
Fund. During the year, we also sold our interest in three French 
buyout funds for £5.3 million. The positive impact of these events 
helped us manage our net debt position and greatly enhanced our 
ability to meet the covenant obligations on our loan notes.
In December 2009, Candover acquired the remaining tranche of 
Expro International shares. As outlined last year this tranche of 
shares had been held in a separate entity, which was guaranteed by 
the Company, following the purchase of Expro International in July 
2008. This structure was created to enable the Limited Partners 
in the Candover 2008 Fund (which had not had a first closing at 
the time of the Expro International transaction) to participate in 
the investment by way of syndication. After the first and second 
closings, m43.2 million (£40.0 million) remained in the entity pending 
syndication, which, following the suspension of the Candover 2008 
Fund, did not take place. As a result, this stake was taken on to our 
statement of financial position at the year end.
The combination of realisations, the restructuring costs and the 
impact of acquiring the additional Expro International investment 
has resulted in our net debt at the year end rising to £74.8 million 
against £54.5 million at the start of 2009. At 31st December 2009, 
our loan-to-value ratio was 26% (2008: 34%) and was 25% at 
30th June 2009 – both well within the required threshold of 40% as 
required under the terms of our loan note. The improvement in our 
loan-to-value ratio reflects the uplift in the value of our investments. 
Our cash of £106.3 million and an undrawn £100.0 million bank 
facility mean that we have access to sufficient capital to meet our 
follow-on commitments of £80.8 million to the Candover 2005 Fund.
Since the year end, the Company has received a further 
£14.7 million by way of proceeds from the sale of Springer 
Science+Business Media by Candover Partners, together with  
a further carried interest payment from the Candover 2001 Fund.  
The effect of these cash proceeds has been to reduce net debt  
on a pro-forma basis to £60.1 million and the loan-to-value ratio  
to 23%.
The current portfolio does have both sector and geographical 
diversity, but one of the consequences of the realisations and  
the acquisition of the additional stake in Expro International  
is the increase in its concentration during the last year. As at  
31st December 2009, the ten largest investments comprised  
87.7% of Candover’s investment value (2008: 85.4% on a  
like-for-like basis), with Expro International individually  
accounting for 29.9% (2008: 21.2%). This concentration  
will continue as further realisations occur.
Strategic review and the Candover 2008 Fund 
The first half of the year was particularly testing and we undertook 
a comprehensive review of strategic options as we sought to 
reinforce our financial position and maximise value for shareholders. 
The outcome was a radical restructuring in the scope and scale 
of our operations. We considered a range of other options for 
the business, including expressions of interest in acquiring the 
Company. However, after careful consideration, we concluded 
that none of these would deliver superior value for shareholders 
compared with the anticipated benefits from the future realisation  
of the portfolio.
Our work on strategy went hand-in-hand with the process of 
reaching agreement with Candover Partners and the Limited 
Partners of the Candover 2008 Fund over the future of that fund. 
The investment period of the Candover 2008 Fund was put into 
suspension in March 2009 in order to allow talks on its future to be 
concluded following our assessment that we would not be able to 
maintain our m1.0 billion commitment. These talks concluded that 
it would not be appropriate to resurrect the Candover 2008 Fund 
and shortly after the year end we announced that agreement had 
been reached to terminate the investment period of the fund.
The Candover 2008 Fund’s sole investment is in Expro  
International. Under the termination agreement, investor 
commitments have been scaled back pro rata to meet the cost of 
the Expro International investment. Additionally, a follow-on reserve 
of m100 million has been created to allow Expro International to 
continue to take advantage of market opportunities. The Company 
will not be contributing to this follow-on reserve. The other key 
terms of the agreement are that the Company will surrender its 
Candover 2008 Fund carry entitlement to the Limited Partners  
and that all Limited Partners have waived any claims that they  
may have against the Company and Candover Partners as a  
result of our withdrawal from the Candover 2008 Fund.  Section 1: 
Overview
Section 2: 
Business review
Section 3: 
Governance
Section 4: 
Financial statements 
Section 5: 
Shareholder services
Candover 
Report and accounts 2009 05
Overall, we believe that the Candover 2008 Fund was terminated 
on terms satisfactory to Candover Investments plc.
The impact of the formal termination of the Candover 2008 Fund, 
taken together with other key events since March 2009, leaves 
us with the financial strength to meet our remaining investment 
commitments to the Candover 2005 Fund. This can be seen by 
looking at the Company’s uncalled commitments position from a 
“before and after” perspective as illustrated in the table below.  
The ratio of outstanding commitments to net assets has fallen from 
393% to 36%, whilst the ratio of cash and undrawn bank facilities  
to outstanding commitments has risen from 23% to 255%.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Candover Partners
During 2009, we considered carefully the validity of the structure of 
our business model; specifically, whether a listed public company 
which invests, realises and recycles profits through a wholly-owned 
discretionary fund manager, which owes fiduciary duties to its 
third party Limited Partner investors, had sufficient control over 
its own destiny. As part of this, we reviewed the various internal 
arrangements that operated within the Company and considered 
the legal separation of Candover Partners from the Company. We 
concluded that the informal arrangements that existed between 
Candover Partners and the Company were not sufficiently 
robust. Since the year end, we have therefore entered into a 
binding agreement with Candover Partners which formalises the 
relationship between the Company as an investor and Candover 
Partners as its asset manager. This agreement sets clear rules 
for our financial arrangements with Candover Partners which are 
market based and also defines the administrative services required 
by the Company.
We do not believe that legal separation is a current priority as 
the interests of the Company and Candover Partners are closely 
aligned at this point in time, with the principal aim being maximising 
the value of the existing portfolio in the interests of all investors. 
Together with Candover Partners, we analysed the level of 
operating resources appropriate to our changed environment and 
this resulted in a reduction in staffing from 100 at the start of 2009 
to 42 today. We also closed our nascent operations in Asia and 
Eastern Europe. 
We are committed to supporting the restructured Candover 
Partners team to enable them to deliver the value in the portfolio.
Risk-based management
The events of last year have strengthened our view that we need to 
embed risk management more firmly throughout Candover. This will 
not only provide strong corporate governance, but will also actively 
protect and manage shareholder value. We have undertaken a 
comprehensive risk review exercise, focused on updating the risk 
profiles of both the Company and Candover Partners. We now 
have a group-wide picture of risk which distinguishes between the 
roles of the investor and asset manager respectively and which is 
presented in the Risk review section starting on page 36. 
Private equity as an asset class has an inherently higher risk  
level than some other asset classes with the corresponding 
potential for higher rewards. We will continue to monitor this very 
closely to ensure the right balance. However, if we were materially 
to increase the level of risk mitigation, such as through the use of 
derivatives, we believe this could significantly affect the potential 
returns available.
Strategy and priorities
In the next phase of its development, Candover will focus on 
the following key measures which we believe are both clear 
determinants of shareholder value and consistent with a  
risk-based approach:
– the level of our net assets per share; 
– the ratio of our net debt to the value of our investments;
–  the ratio of our outstanding investment commitments relative  
to net assets;
–  the level of our cash balances and undrawn bank facilities 
relative to these outstanding commitments; and
– the level of concentration within the investment portfolio.
We believe that use of these metrics will provide us with clarity  
on performance and will highlight which options are realistic  
as we develop a sustainable model for growing shareholder  
value in private equity over the longer term. 
Our priority for the year ahead is to build on the progress we have 
made, exploring the options we now have for the Company that 
will ensure an enduring business which creates value for all of 
Candover’s investors.
Malcolm Fallen
Chief Executive Officer 
24th March 2010
Before: 
Candover 
2005/2008 Fund
Outstanding commitments  
as at 31st December 2009
1
u994m u90m
Net assets as at  
31st December 2009
2
Ratio of outstanding 
commitments to net assets
Ratio of cash and undrawn 
facilities to outstanding 
commitments
1  Outstanding investment commitments: m904m (Candover 2008 Fund) and 
m90m (Candover 2005 Fund)
2 Net assets converted at a year end exchange rate of m1.1112
u253m u253m
393% 36%
23% 255%
After: 
Candover  
2005 Fund
