 Candover 
Report and accounts 2009 02
Chairman’s statement
The last year was one of enormous challenge  
for all participants in the private equity industry –  
and Candover was clearly not immune.
There was an unprecedented decline in investments, realisations 
and fund raising activities caused by an economic slowdown 
across the world, the near collapse of the global banking system 
and the tightening of credit markets. These events, combined with 
lower valuations and weaker trading in portfolio companies, forced 
many private equity houses to reappraise their strategies. Candover 
faced all these challenges which, in our case, were amplified by the 
structural aspects unique to our long-standing business model. 
Over the course of the last year we took decisive action. Candover 
has moved to a situation in which its overall stability is much 
improved from a position of financial and corporate uncertainty. 
The strategic review conducted in the first half of the year, the 
subsequent essential restructuring of the business and the 
Candover 2008 Fund, together with the timely benefit of asset 
realisations and an improvement in the external environment,  
have all contributed to our much improved financial health.
Our results for 2009 very much reflect the overall improvement  
in our underlying financial position. Net asset value per share  
rose only marginally from 1026p to 1038p for the full year to  
31st December but this masks the adverse effects of currency 
movements and one off exceptional costs associated with 
restructuring our business, offset by the recovery in the value  
of our investments over the second half of the year. At 30th June  
we reported a 12.1% decline in net asset value per share; over  
the course of the second half of the year we have seen this rise  
by 15.1%. 
At the beginning of the year, the Board was entirely non-executive 
and Candover Investments plc had no separate executive 
management. This was not satisfactory given the turmoil we faced. 
Malcolm Fallen joined the Company on an interim basis in March 
2009 and was appointed CEO in September. His appointment was 
not only instrumental in helping to achieve stability but also it  
has redefined our operational model thereby helping to manage  
the potential conflicts in our structure. We are confident that 
Malcolm’s leadership will continue to be an important factor in 
driving the business forward and in the creation of future value  
for shareholders.
The restructuring of Candover Partners provided the opportunity 
to implement its long-planned succession strategy. John Arney 
was appointed Managing Partner, a new position, responsible 
for strategy and management, while Marek Gumienny became 
Chairman of Candover Partners. Following the resolution of the 
Candover 2008 Fund discussions, Colin Buffin left the Company 
after 25 years and we would like to thank him and other departed 
colleagues for their immense contribution to the development of  
the business.
There will be further changes to the Board in 2010 to reflect  
the fact that Candover is now a smaller company managed  
by a full time CEO. The Board will reduce in size from seven  
non-executive positions to four, with Antony Hichens, Chris  
Russell and Nicholas Jones stepping down at the Annual  
General Meeting. All three are to be thanked for their service  
over the years, with Antony notably having served as a  
non-executive for 21 years, latterly as the Senior Independent 
Director. Richard Stone will become Chairman of the Audit,  
Risk and Valuation Committee, Lord Jay will become the  
Senior Independent Director, Jan Oosterveld will become  
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I will become 
Chairman of the Nominations Committee. 
In light of the financial results for the year, the Board has decided 
that it is not yet appropriate to recommend that the Company pays 
a dividend. However, the Board expects to recommend restarting 
the payment of dividends when the Company is in an appropriate 
position to do so.
The completion of the strategic review, the subsequent 
restructuring process and the agreement reached with the Limited 
Partners of the Candover 2008 Fund draws to a close a difficult 
period for Candover. As we begin 2010, we are well positioned  
to move forward on a more stable basis – while remaining mindful  
of continued uncertainty in the external environment. The outlook 
for the macro economic environment remains hard to predict, 
although the worst of the banking crisis appears to be behind us 
and the major economies are starting to emerge from recession. 
This should be good for the longer term value of our investments.  
The flow of private equity transactions has begun to increase,  
albeit modestly, and this should enhance our ability to benefit  
from realisations which in turn should improve our financial  
position further.
Gerry Grimstone
Chairman  
24th March 2010 Candover 
Report and accounts 2009 03
Business review
Overview 01-02 1
Business review 03-18 2
Shareholder services 83-85 5
Financial statements 47-82 4
Governance 19-46 3
In this section:
04 CEO’s report
06 Financial review
08 Manager’s portfolio review
18 Valuation policy
