 4 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
“The Company is pursuing 
the right strategy to deliver 
long-term growth.” 
Tim Eggar
Chairman
Chairman’s statement 2016
29.9 pence
Adjusted diluted earnings per share
(2015: 29.9 pence) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 5 
Annual Report 2016
Overview
The Group delivered a strong performance in 2016, despite the 
challenging market. Financial results were robust, with strong 
revenue growth and solid adjusted diluted earnings per share. 
The Group also performed well operationally, delivering our critical 
services for our customers and being rewarded with substantial 
contract awards across the Group. Given the importance we place 
on creating a safe working environment, I am particularly pleased 
that we also recorded our best ever safety performance.
We faced a number of other challenges during the year. At Board 
level, we spent a considerable amount of time working with 
management and our advisors on the ongoing industrial disease 
claim litigation, reaching a settlement agreement in relation to the 
insurer product liability claims on 12 March 2017. This settlement 
and other related industrial disease claim issues are discussed 
more fully in both the Chief Executive’s and Chief Financial Officer’s 
reports. There were also changes in our senior structure and 
Board membership as we re-domiciled the Company’s centre 
of management and refreshed the Board and its Committees. 
Throughout the year, we maintained our focus on the continuous 
improvement of the Group’s governance and controls.
A resilient strategy delivering strong financial results and 
significant contract awards
The strength of Cape’s strategy has been demonstrated with a 
strong financial performance and a number of key contract awards in 
difficult market conditions during the year. Our customers focussed 
on cost control and cash management, which put pressure on 
margins and caused delays and deferrals of maintenance and 
construction activities. However, our broad geographical reach, 
balanced business and commitment to operational excellence ensured 
the Group delivered adjusted diluted earnings per share of 
29.9 pence, in line with our performance in 2015. The award of 
additional scope of works at Wheatstone in Australia in 2016 is 
recognition by our customer of the quality and value that Cape delivers.
Health and safety
Our vision is to create a work environment where everyone can 
work safely with zero harm to themselves and their colleagues. We 
achieved our best ever recorded safety performance with significant 
improvements in both our Total Recordable Incident Rate and the 
number of Lost Time Incidents during the year. We will continue to 
drive a strong safety culture within the business; we owe it to our 
many employees and customers. 
The Board and corporate governance
During the year, the Board re-domiciled the Company’s centre of 
management from Singapore to the UK, a move we expect to 
provide a number of benefits to the Group which are outlined in 
more detail in the Governance section of this report on page 50.
As previously announced, following re-domiciliation, Samantha 
Tough, who is based in Western Australia, stepped down from the 
Board. I would like to thank Samantha for her contribution to the 
Group. The Nomination Committee led the search for Samantha’s 
replacement and I am delighted to welcome Mary Reilly to the Board. 
Mary brings a wealth of experience from a variety of sectors, having 
worked for over 30 years’ in an international environment as a 
Chartered Accountant with Deloitte LLP. We have also changed 
our committee memberships with Mary becoming a member of 
the Audit Committee, replacing Samantha, and Brian Larcombe 
replacing Michael Merton on the Remuneration Committee.
The Board has also continued to focus on strengthening Cape’s 
performance and controls. There has been a particular focus on 
anti-bribery and anti-corruption training and compliance across the 
Group. The Audit Committee initiated a sequenced ‘deep-dive’ 
review of important risks, policies and controls.
Cape people
I would like to thank all our employees for their dedication, skill and 
hard work during 2016. The Company continues to be led by a highly 
motivated and extremely effective management team, supported by 
highly-skilled, dedicated and determined employees. This is reflected 
in the improved safety performance and the delivery of strong 
financial results, despite the significant market challenges in all our 
geographies. Such results evidence our values and continue to 
demonstrate our management and employees’ drive and 
commitment to deliver for our stakeholders.
Dividend
The Board has decided that it is appropriate to rebase the dividend 
given the cash impact of the recent settlement of the insurer product 
liability litigation. The Board is therefore recommending a final 
dividend per share of 2.5 pence, which, if approved by shareholders, 
would bring the full year dividend per share to 7.0 pence. The Board 
is planning to maintain the dividend at this level for 2017 and then 
implement a progressive dividend policy from 2018 onward. Subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held 
on 10 May 2017, the final dividend will be payable on 23 June 2017 
to shareholders on the register as at 19 May 2017.
Prospects
The Company’s strong financial performance in difficult market 
conditions, strategic achievements and the settlement of the insurer 
product liability litigation provide confidence in the Group’s future 
prospects. I believe the Company is being led by a talented 
management team and pursuing the right strategy to deliver 
long-term growth in what we expect to remain challenging and 
competitive markets.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
14 March 2017 6 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
A strategy 
that delivers Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 7 
Annual Report 2016
Strategic report
8 Chief Executive’s review
12 Our markets
14 Our strategy
16 Our business model
18 Business review
24 Key performance indicators
26 Chief Financial Officer’s review
32 How we manage risk
34 Principal risks and viability
40 Corporate and social responsibility
