 Chief Executive’s review
A year of operational progress across Capco
2016 has been a challenging year but despite macro-economic  
and political upheaval, Covent Garden has continued to deliver 
excellent growth and is now established as one of the best retail 
estates in the world. The success of our investment strategy at 
Covent Garden was not sufficient to offset the decline in land value 
at Earls Court, which was affected negatively by the correction in 
the London residential market as a result of stamp duty increases 
and the outcome of the EU Referendum. As a result, EPRA net 
asset value fell by 5.9 per cent over the year to 340 pence per share 
with 4.7 per cent of this occurring in the first six months of 2016.
Covent Garden continues to deliver excellent rental and value 
growth. Demand for the estate from retailers, restaurateurs and 
consumers is very strong as reflected in a record amount of leasing 
activity in 2016 resulting in an increase in value of 6.4 per cent 
like-for like.
The London residential market has been affected negatively by  
the EU Referendum and the substantial increase in stamp duty 
taxation. These factors were the major contributors to the decline 
in our Earls Court interests which decreased by 20.4 per cent 
(like-for-like) of which 14 per cent (like-for-like) was in the  
first six months of the year.
Our disciplined approach to capital allocation has meant Capco  
is in a robust financial position with a low loan to value of 23 per 
cent. The balance sheet has been further strengthened by the 
financing activities across the Group this year resulting in high 
liquidity of £556 million, an extension of our loan maturities  
to 5.9 years and a lower average cost of debt of 2.7 per cent.
Our strategy remains clear and focused on driving long-term  
value creation from our two unique central London estates. 
London is a growing and global city and underpinned by a clear 
strategy; Capco’s two estates are well-placed for long-term success.
Capco regularly considers opportunities where its core skills  
of place-making and masterplanning can be utilised and in  
2015 acquired a 50 per cent interest in the Solum Developments 
joint venture with Network Rail which is exploring potential 
opportunities for future redevelopments at significant railway 
station sites across London.
CLEAR AND FOCUSED 
STRATEGY DRIVING 
LONG-TERM VALUE CREATION
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive
Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 8  Valuations
The total property value of the Group declined 4.4 per cent 
(like-for-like) in the year to 31 December 2016 to £3.7 billion. The 
December 2016 valuations incorporate the 1 per cent increase in 
Stamp Duty Land Tax (“SDLT”) that was enacted earlier this year, 
which was applicable to most of our portfolio and had an impact  
of £32.4 million (0.9 per cent of property value).
The valuation of Covent Garden has risen by 6.4 per cent (like-for-
like) to £2.3 billion, driven by ERV growth of 7.9 per cent achieved 
over the year. The equivalent yield is 3.5 per cent, reflecting the 
valuers’ current view of the strength of demand for central London 
retail investments.
The valuation of Earls Court Properties is £1.1 billion, a decrease  
of 20.4 per cent (like-for-like) principally driven by a greater risk 
premium through a higher developer’s margin for consented 
development land, trimming of sales values, as well as some  
cost inflation. This reflects the valuer’s assessment of weakened 
sentiment and a correction in the central London residential market.
The Group has a 63 per cent controlling interest in Earls Court 
Partnership Limited (“ECPL”), the investment vehicle with 
Transport for London (“TfL”) which owns the land formerly 
occupied by the Earls Court Exhibition Centres (“EC1 & EC2”). As a 
result, it is fully consolidated in the financial statements and TfL’s 
interest is represented as a non-controlling interest. See page 40 of 
the Financial Review for further information.
Market Value 
2016 
£m
Market Value 
2015  
£m
Valuation 
Change
Like-for-Like
1
Covent Garden 2,275 2,005 6.4%
Earls Court Properties
Earls Court Partnership 
Limited (“ECPL”)
2
644 803 (22.6)%
Lillie Square
3
223 222 (17.0)%
Empress State 230 286 (20.0)%
Other 45 46 (4.2)%
Group share of Earls Court 
Properties 1,142 1,357 (20.4)%
Venues 293 295 (1.3)%
Other – 5 –
Group share of total property
4
3,710 3,662 (4.4)%
1. Valuation change takes account of amortisation of tenant lease incentives, capital 
expenditure, fixed head leases and unrecognised trading surplus.
2. Represents the Group’s 63 per cent interest in ECPL.
3. Represents the Group’s 50 per cent interest in Lillie Square.
4. A reconciliation of the carrying value of investment, development and trading 
property to the market value is shown in note 14 ‘Property Portfolio’ within the 
consolidated financial statements. 
King Street 
Covent Garden
www.capitalandcounties.com 9 
Governance Financial statements Strategic report Covent Garden – a leading global destination  
for brands and visitors
Covent Garden has been transformed into one of the leading 
destinations for global ‘street retail’ and its success has continued 
throughout 2016. The uncompromising asset management 
strategy has driven strong leasing momentum, attracting global 
premium brands, many of which choose Covent Garden as their 
first or only London store, resulting in solid rental performance 
across the estate. Our creative approach to managing Covent 
Garden continues to create value for our retailers through 
attracting high quality footfall and positive sales growth.
We achieved a record level of leasing activity in 2016 with 95  
new lettings and renewals agreed, securing £13.3 million of rent  
at 9.3 per cent above December 2015 ERV. The ERV of the estate  
is £96 million, up 7.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis. A new ERV 
target of £125 million to be achieved by December 2020 has been 
set, reflecting the positive growth prospects of the estate.
Following positive leasing progress across the estate, new Zone A 
levels have been achieved reflecting the strong demand for space  
in this iconic setting. Tom Ford, Giorgio Armani Beauty’s Armani 
Box London (“Armani Box London”) and Hotel Chocolat are  
the latest signings to the Market Building while the strategy to 
reposition the Royal Opera House Arcade with a luxury accessories 
focus has seen the introduction of The Watch Gallery, Mulberry 
and N.Peal.
The dining offering at Covent Garden has further strengthened 
this year. We are delighted to welcome Michelin-starred chef Ollie 
Dabbous to the estate through the restaurant at the Henrietta 
Hotel on Henrietta Street, while SushiSamba, RedFarm and  
VyTA add to the depth of variety and quality on the estate.
The Floral Court development (formerly Kings Court) is on track 
for completion towards the end of 2017 and will transform the 
pedestrian flows on the northern side of the estate. Petersham 
Nurseries, the renowned lifestyle brand, will open later in 2017 
following a pre-lease for 60 per cent of the commercial space 
reflecting the strong appeal of the Floral Court development.
We have continued to expand our presence on the estate through 
strategic acquisitions, investing £85 million in properties located 
at key access points to the estate and will continue to seek 
opportunities to further enhance our footprint on the area. The 
estate now comprises over 1.1 million square feet of lettable space, 
establishing itself as one of the largest managed retail-led estates 
in London.
Earls Court Masterplan – over 70 acres of consented land in 
central London
At Earls Court, the complex demolition of the former Earls Court 
Exhibition Centres to ground level completed on schedule after 
almost two years of intensive work on the site. Demolition to 
basement level has commenced which further de-risks the site  
and enables the land for its future development.
The Earls Court Masterplan is a unique opportunity to create  
the next great estate in London. The Masterplan is one of the 
Greater London Authority’s (“GLA”) designated Opportunity 
Areas making it a strategic scheme for London. Representations 
have been submitted by Capco to the GLA’s London Plan signalling 
Earls Court’s potential to deliver an additional 2,500 homes above 
the current consented scheme, bringing the total number of new 
homes to 10,000.
Further to Capco’s ambitions for Earls Court, during 2016  
ECPL engaged in public consultations on proposals to redevelop 
Empress Place. These are strategic assets located on or around  
the Lillie Road which ECPL has acquired in recent years. These 
consultations relate to a scheme comprising 400 new homes and 
retail space, covering circa 500,000 square feet (GEA), creating one 
of the key access points to the Earls Court Masterplan and Lillie 
Square. Plans are progressing to submit a detailed planning 
Chief Executive’s review continued
Site progress  
at Earls Court
Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10  Ian Hawksworth
Chief Executive
21 February 2017
application in spring 2017, signalling the start of the 
enhancements to the Earls Court Masterplan.
At Lillie Square, construction of Phase 1 is progressing well and  
the scheme recently welcomed its first residents. Sales of Phase 2 
have continued with 59 apartments now reserved or exchanged 
and levels of enquiries remain positive. Preparations are being 
made for the next release of apartments in the coming months. 
The residential sales market remains challenging as a result of 
stamp duty increases and the EU Referendum result which has 
impacted buyers’ decision making. Nevertheless, reflecting the 
strong location and transport connectivity of the scheme, sales 
prices achieved in Phase 2 have been at a modest premium to 
comparable units in Phase 1. 
Venues – operational excellence
The Venues business continues to strengthen with EBITDA of 
£19 million up 29 per cent compared to 2015 reflecting its excellent 
prospects as a central London venue.
Olympia London has re-established itself as London’s venue of 
choice for premium exhibitions attracting 1.5 million visitors to 
the historic venue in 2016. Olympia London played host to the UK’s 
largest exhibition, the Ideal Home Show, and continues to attract 
new business welcoming 5G World for the first time this year.
Outlook
Capco is very well positioned with two significant prime estates  
in central London. London remains a very attractive investment 
market and whilst we expect market challenges to continue into 
2017, Capco has a clear strategy to deliver long-term value creation 
from its two estates in Covent Garden and Earls Court.
Covent Garden has been transformed into one of the leading 
destinations for global ‘street retail’. Following the strong demand 
in 2016 from excellent brands and dining concepts, 2017 will be 
one of our most active years for retail and dining openings across 
the estate, further underpinning the estate’s reputation as a 
premier global retail and dining destination. We remain focused 
on our ambitious strategy to introduce the best brands for our 
visitors, invest in strategically expanding the portfolio and 
manage the estate to create value for our retailers to underpin 
rental growth. The estate remains well-placed for continued 
success and accordingly we will be focused on achieving a  
new ERV target of £125 million by December 2020.
The Earls Court Masterplan is the only central London GLA 
Opportunity Area of scale and is a strategic scheme for the Capital. 
With its excellent existing transport infrastructure, it has the 
potential to deliver much-needed homes across various tenures 
and places for Londoners to enjoy. Our strategy remains focused 
on maximising the potential of this strategically important 
mixed-use scheme and de-risking the site through land 
enablement, preparing it for future development.
Capco’s financial position has been strengthened by the financing 
activities undertaken during the year. With low leverage, high 
liquidity and modest capital commitments, the Group is well 
positioned to take advantage of opportunities as they arise. We 
enter a new year focused on our strategy to deliver long-term value 
creation for our shareholders from our two exceptional central 
London estates. 
Ideal Home Show  
at Olympia London
www.capitalandcounties.com 11 
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
