 8 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review
“2016 was a solid year 
of achievement and the 
Board is confident that 
the business will deliver 
another strong trading 
performance in 2017 .” 
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
£918m
Closing order book
(2015: £861m) Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 9 
Annual Report 2016
Overview
The resilience of our strategy and business model is demonstrated 
by another strong set of results in 2016. I am delighted to be able to 
report that while market conditions have clearly had an impact on 
our margins we have been able to deliver strong top line growth, with 
revenue up 21.4% compared to the prior year at £863.5 million, and 
solid earnings per share of 29.9 pence, which is in line with the prior 
year. We also achieved a robust order intake leading to a record 
closing order book as at 31 December 2016 of £917.6 million, up 
6.5% on the prior year (31 December 2015: £861.3 million). 
I am also delighted to report that we have had the safest year ever 
recorded in Cape’s history with both our Total Recordable Incident 
Rate (TRIR) and our Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) improving 
significantly. This is a testament to every employee’s commitment 
to our safety culture and our desire to make Cape a safe place to 
work for all as we strive to achieve our vision of zero harm.
In light of the industrial disease product liability litigation, we focussed 
throughout 2016 on the delivery of our organic growth strategy and have 
made good progress on the key elements of that strategy during the 
year. Operational excellence and customer intimacy are fundamental 
to our sustained success, enabling us to develop stronger bonds with 
our existing customers and build relationships with new ones. We have 
continued to invest in our people through structured training and 
development programmes covering both managerial and technical 
competencies. Following their initial conception in 2015, we saw real 
momentum during 2016 in establishing and embedding our Technical 
Authorities in the Group. Our Technical Authorities now have a clearer 
structure in which to operate and we are already better utilising their 
expertise to support sales opportunities around the Cape footprint. 
Our focus on continuous improvement saw us continue to roll out our 
standardised site systems and further investment in their development 
to ensure that we have the best tools available to measure and manage 
our work and drive better productivity. These systems are recognised 
by many of our customers as industry-leading.
Within the UK, our broad portfolio of services, in particular the addition 
of mechanical services in 2015, helped underpin the award of a 
multi-million pound, five-year contract at the ConocoPhillips’ Seal 
Sands complex on Teesside. We are also seeing the first notable 
successes in our efforts to target white space opportunities at existing 
customer sites. At each of EDF Energy’s nuclear power stations in the 
UK a programme of customer roadshows has led to increased demand 
for the full range of the Group’s services. We have restructured our UK 
and Cape Specialist Services (CSS) to better position our CSS offering 
for global expansion and during the year successfully secured contracts 
for storage tank inspection and repair with GASCO and ADOC in the 
Middle East. There remains a significant pipeline of specialist service 
opportunities across the Group’s international footprint.
We continue to pursue our strategy of targeted geographic expansion 
in order to increase the Group’s growth potential. We have delivered 
on a number of small initial contracts in Iraq and identified a number 
of other new target markets during the year through a careful 
evaluation process. These markets provide opportunities for both 
our traditional and specialist services. Our previous entry into Kuwait 
saw the team winning multiple contract awards at the Kuwait National 
Petroleum Company’s (KNPC) Clean Fuels Project. However, a highly 
competitive environment in Malaysia, including greater than expected 
local competition, has resulted in low penetration of project work 
opportunities to date.
Excellent operational performance on a number of key projects 
in Asia Pacific offset commercial and market challenges elsewhere 
in our business, particularly in the UK, demonstrating the value of 
a broad geographical portfolio. Our joint venture in Azerbaijan has 
again performed well, delivering both construction and maintenance 
work to the highest standard. The Group’s track record of delivery, 
focus on operational excellence and strong customer relationships 
was also fundamental to the award in late 2016 of significant 
additional scope of works at Chevron’s Wheatstone LNG project 
in Australia until the completion of construction. 
Our strong performance in 2016 has been partially overshadowed by 
two legal cases relating to our legacy of industrial disease claims from 
the period when the Group was involved in the manufacture of asbestos 
products. We have previously disclosed details of these new types of 
claims brought by insurance companies which include insurer employer 
liability claims (‘Insurer EL Claims’) and insurer product liability claims 
(‘Insurer PL Claims’) and that these Insurer PL Claims represented a 
potentially large and unquantifiable liability to the Company.
On 12 March 2017, the Company reached a settlement of the 
litigation relating to the Insurer PL Claims. The settlement of this 
litigation does not imply any acceptance of liability on Cape’s behalf. 
Following the end of the trial on 23 February 2017, the Board received 
an updated opinion from Leading Counsel regarding the Insurer PL 
Claims litigation which reinforced the Board’s view that the merits of 
the Group’s defence are persuasive and that there are substantial 
evidential burdens on the litigants. Nonetheless, we were mindful 
that there remained a risk that this litigation could have a material 
adverse impact on the Scheme and in turn upon the Group and its 
stakeholders. The Board therefore concluded that it was in the best 
interests of Cape and its shareholders to settle at the agreed level, 
thus removing a significant risk to the business, removing the 
distraction of a likely protracted appeals process and enabling 
management to focus on the development of the core business. 
In July 2016, a determinant judgment was issued in respect of the 
Insurer EL Claims trial, in which some issues were found in favour 
of Cape and some against. We have been granted leave to appeal 
and the appeal hearing will be held in July 2017.
Further details of the industrial disease claims are contained in notes 
29 and 34, with further details of the Scheme contained in note 35.
2016 closing order book
£918m
(2016 closing order book including share of JVs: £952m)
£380m £221m £317m
£526m £229m £163m
UK
Order book by region
Order book unwind
Middle East Asia Pacic
2017 2018 2019+
Safety
It is especially pleasing to be able to report that during 2016 we achieved 
our best ever recorded performance in both our TRIR and our LTIF 
safety metrics. The Group’s TRIR reduced to 0.756 (2015: 1.271) while 
LTIF fell to 0.144 incidents per 1,000,000 hours worked (2015: 0.184). 
My thanks go to all our people for their efforts in adopting our strong 
safety culture and making Cape a safer place to work. While this is a 
good performance, we must not be complacent and we will continue 
to drive a strong safety culture across the business, focussing on 
forward-looking measures of safety performance and the timely close 
out of safety observations and incidents. The safety of our people and 
of those people around us is central to everything we do at Cape. Our 
vision is to create a work environment where everyone: our employees, 
partners and third parties, can work safely with zero harm to themselves 
and their colleagues. We often work in challenging locations and 
environments, carrying out potentially hazardous activities, so we are 
continuously seeking ways to improve our safety performance, both 
in terms of process and culture to achieve this vision. 
Market conditions 2016
In the early part of 2016 the price of crude oil continued to fall, 
reaching a low of $28 per barrel. It subsequently recovered to 
average around $45 per barrel for the year, still almost $10 per barrel 
lower than the average in 2015. This situation continued to drive our 
customers in the oil and gas sector to focus on cost and cash 
management with widespread deferral of discretionary spending. 
As a result, the upstream oil and gas sector continued to experience  10 Cape plc 
Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review
continued
low levels of demand, a slower pace of new project awards, delay 
in some maintenance activities and significant pressure on pricing. 
Demand from the downstream and industrial markets remained solid 
throughout the year with customers in the refining and petrochemical 
sectors committing investment in both new construction projects 
and maintenance of existing facilities, although pressure on margins 
was also evident in these sectors.
Market conditions in the UK continued to be challenging, largely 
reflecting the ongoing impact of the low oil price. The offshore market in 
the North Sea experienced a particularly difficult period with customers 
deferring discretionary spending and aggressively pursuing cost 
reduction programmes. Consequently, margin pressures continued 
throughout the year and we experienced low levels of demand for 
the Group’s specialist services in the offshore sector. As anticipated, 
demand from the coal-fired power station market reduced with the 
closure of Longannet and Ferrybridge power stations in 2016, although 
it was encouraging that the UK Government effectively sanctioned the 
start of new nuclear power station construction that could provide 
significant opportunities for the business in the future. Demand from 
the downstream and general industrial segments remained robust. 
In the Middle East, the sustained low oil price continued to drive a strong 
focus by our customers on costs and cash management; a trend we 
expect to continue. In broad terms, the Group saw a slower pace of new 
project awards and delays to a number of shutdown programmes, although 
specific market conditions have varied across the region. Demand in the 
Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA) continued to be robust, driven by a stable 
maintenance requirement and increasing activity on construction projects, 
predominantly in the downstream and petrochemical sectors. In the 
United Arab Emirates (UAE), maintenance demand remained robust but 
there was little new construction activity and a number of shutdown 
projects were postponed, leading to pressure on both volumes and pricing. 
In Qatar, activity in new oil and gas projects also remained low and the 
maintenance market experienced increased cost pressure. Whilst activity 
levels in Oman in the first half of the year were very low, project demand 
increased in the second half of 2016 as activity on the Sohar Expansion and 
Khazzan Projects increased. The business continued to see a ramp-up 
in construction activities in Kuwait, with a number of significant downstream 
projects moving forward. Demand in Azerbaijan also remained strong, 
driven by further development of Shah Deniz 2 and the Sangachal 
Terminal Expansion project along with fabric maintenance work.
Demand for the Group’s services from the LNG project sector in the 
Asia Pacific region remained high. The Group experienced strong 
demand in the first half of the year for construction work on LNG 
modules being fabricated in Asian yards, with a substantial increase 
in activity in the second half of 2016 on both the floating LNG project 
in South Korea and LNG plant construction in Australia. 
Elsewhere, market conditions within the Asia Pacific market remained 
mixed. Demand for maintenance activity in Asia was steady although 
competition remained strong resulting in significant pricing pressure. 
The offshore market across the region was negatively affected by the 
low oil price driving a significant fall in demand for both new project and 
refurbishment work. Bidding activity was high for the RAPID project in 
Malaysia, although competition, in particular from local suppliers, was 
more severe than expected. The Australian maintenance market 
continued to experience both extreme pricing pressure and low demand 
from the resources sector, reflecting ongoing low commodity prices.
2016 operating performance 
Despite challenging market conditions, Cape’s overall operating and 
financial performance was strong.
The Group achieved a resilient order intake of £846.7 million, up 0.6% 
on the prior year (2015: £841.3 million). Notable contract awards were 
the increased scope of work at Wheatstone, multi-disciplinary contracts 
with ConocoPhillips, SABIC and EDF Energy in the UK along with the 
strategically important Jazan and KNPC construction projects in the 
Middle East. The significant scope expansion at Wheatstone, with Cape 
becoming the single contractor on site for our services, was particularly 
pleasing as it was a direct result of our strong operating performance 
and a demonstration of the tangible value of our strategy to focus on 
operational excellence and customer intimacy. As a result, the Group 
concluded 2016 with its highest ever closing order book of £917 .6 million, 
up 6.5% on the prior year (2015: £861.3 million), with almost 60% of that 
order book due for delivery within 2017 .
Revenue was 21.4% higher than the prior year at £863.5 million 
(2015: £711.4 million), primarily reflecting increased volumes in 
Asia Pacific at the Wheatstone and Karratha Gas Plant Life Extension 
(KLE) projects in Australia, the Shell Prelude FLNG project in 
South Korea and the Shell Bukom project in Singapore. The Group 
benefited from movements in exchange rates in the year as Sterling 
weakened against many of the Group’s non-UK trading currencies 
with underlying revenues at constant currency increasing by 16.1%. 
Growth in Asia Pacific was partly offset by lower demand in the 
North Sea and the reduction in demand from the coal-fired power 
generation sector in the UK. Underlying revenues at constant 
currency in the Middle East were slightly lower than the prior year, 
with lower construction project revenues in Qatar almost entirely 
offset by increased activity across all other countries in the region. 
Adjusted operating profit increased by 5.5% to £55.4 million 
(2015: £52.5 million). The Group benefited from favourable foreign 
exchange movements with underlying adjusted operating profit at 
constant currency down by 2.1% compared to the prior year, 
primarily driven by lower demand and a small number of commercial 
performance issues in the UK offset by increased activity levels in 
Asia Pacific and a strong performance in Azerbaijan. 
Operating margins fell by 100bps to 6.4% (2015: 7.4%) with a 
significant deterioration in UK operating margins, partially offset by a 
strong increase in performance in our Asia Pacific business. Whilst the 
UK performance was disappointing, driven by continued weakness in 
the offshore market and a small number of commercial issues, I am 
confident that the UK management team has taken appropriate 
corrective actions and that the business has entered 2017 on a sound 
footing such that it is able to deliver a much improved performance 
this year. As expected, the very strong margin performance in the 
Middle East in the first half of 2015 was not repeated in 2016, and the 
strong performance from our SOCAR-Cape joint venture in Azerbaijan 
offset margin pressures elsewhere in the region.
Adjusted net debt decreased significantly to £80.4 million 
(2015: £109.9 million) driven by strong cash conversion from an improved 
working capital performance and the benefit of foreign exchange 
movements on the translation of foreign cash balances, partially offset by 
increased industrial disease claims cash contributions during the year. 
 
Group revenue
£863.5m
Progress on strategy
Our strategy is delivering results. The importance of our geographical 
diversity is demonstrated by the improved results from Asia Pacific and 
Azerbaijan offsetting a weaker than anticipated performance in the UK. 
We are convinced that our strategic intent of being the leading provider 
of critical industrial services in our chosen geographic markets remains 
compelling and will enable us to continue to deliver shareholder value 
over the long term. We aim to achieve this long-term success through 
five strategic key pillars, which deliver both stability of earnings and 
long-term growth: Operational excellence; Customer intimacy; 
Balanced business; Broadening our range of services; and Geographic 
expansion. Our progress in these areas during the year gives us 
confidence in the Group’s prospects for 2017 and beyond.
Operational excellence
Operational excellence remains the cornerstone of our strategy as it 
enables Cape to deliver better value to our customers whilst protecting 
margins in today’s challenging market conditions. The goals of our 
operational excellence programme remain unchanged: to attract, retain 
and develop the best people; to simplify and standardise our business 
systems and processes; to ensure that knowledge and best practice 
are shared around the Group; and to drive continuous improvement. 
60%
Maintenance
40%
Construction Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 11 
Annual Report 2016
2016 has seen significant investment in our technical authorities (TAs), 
recruiting the right people and embedding clear lines of reporting and 
accountability. TAs are our leading source of technical assurance and 
compliance on a given product or service and help deliver shareholder 
value by supporting the Group’s growth. Better utilisation of their 
expertise to support sales opportunities around the globe has played 
a large part in multiple commercial successes during the last year. 
They are also responsible for our Centres of Excellence, which are 
just one part of our ever improving communication toolkit for sharing 
best practice across the Group’s global footprint.
During the year we also continued to roll out our standardised site 
systems and further invested in their development to ensure that we 
have the best tools available to measure and manage our work, and 
drive better productivity. These systems are recognised by many of 
our customers as industry leading. 
Our middle and senior management development programmes are now 
well established within the business and are enabling us to develop more 
of our management talent in-house. In addition to these management 
development programmes, we continue to direct considerable 
resources to training and assessment of our skilled employees to 
ensure they are able to work safely and to our global standard. 
Customer intimacy
We have built long-term relationships with several of our key customers 
including Bechtel, EDF Energy, BP and SABIC over a number of years. 
Through these relationships we have developed a deep understanding 
of their businesses and we use this to develop solutions, both 
commercial and technical, that deliver real value to those customers. 
This process of developing close relationships with our key customers 
is an important element of our long-term success. During 2016, the 
value of this approach, supported by excellence in operational delivery, 
was demonstrated by the awards of the additional scope of works at 
Wheatstone, cryogenic insulation activities at Prelude and successes 
in our efforts to target white space opportunities, particularly at EDF 
Energy’s fleet of nuclear power stations in the UK. We have also been 
working with a number of customers on developing Asset Integrity 
inspection and compliance programmes to help extend the useful life 
of ageing assets, with a particular focus on corrosion under insulation. 
Balanced business
Cape already has a balance of businesses across a range of 
geographies, which gives the Group an inherent stability against 
fluctuations in demand from any one particular region. This will 
continue to develop as we expand into new countries and regions 
around the world. In addition, we continue to actively pursue growth 
in our maintenance business to provide stability against the natural 
variability in demand from the construction project market. I am 
pleased to be able to report that the Group’s revenue from 
maintenance activity has increased 9.9% in absolute terms to 
£521 million compared to £474 million in the prior year. New 
construction projects play an important role in the Group’s portfolio, 
enabling faster organic growth while often being the vehicle to enter 
new territories. With the increase in construction related activities 
in Asia Pacific, the proportion of Cape’s business derived from 
maintenance activities in 2016 was lower than the prior year at 60% 
(2015: 67%). 
Growth through broadening our range of services
The addition of mechanical services through the 2015 acquisition of 
Redhall Engineering Solutions Limited, subsequently renamed Cape 
Engineering Services Limited (CESL), has proved successful. It 
underpinned the award of the multi-million pound, five-year contract 
at the ConocoPhillips Seal Sands complex on Teesside, in the UK, 
an important milestone for the UK business in the development of 
our broader service offering in this market.
We have continued to invest in our specialist service businesses 
during 2016 in order to provide the optimum framework in which to 
expand our specialist services capability across Cape’s global footprint. 
While progress on expanding our tank construction and maintenance 
business into the Middle East has been slower than we had hoped, 
we now have a dedicated CSS team fully operational in the region with 
work underway on a small number of storage tank inspection and 
repair contracts in the UAE and Kuwait and we continue to see a strong 
pipeline of opportunities in the region. While low oil prices resulted in 
depressed levels of offshore demand for CSS in the UK, we have 
successfully delivered an expanded range of services onshore including 
tank inspection, replacement and refurbishment works by Cape 
Motherwell Bridge, refractory replacement works by Cape York Linings 
and innovative environmental services for one of our key customers, 
EDF Energy. This is a great example of our strategy of filling the white 
spaces in action and something we will continue to pursue in 2017 .
Growth through geographic expansion
We aim to be the leading provider of our services in each of our 
chosen geographies. In practice we seek to grow market share in 
our newer, less mature regions and to defend our leading positions 
in our more mature regions. We have been successful in growing 
our share of the market in Australia with contract wins such as the 
increased scope of work at Wheatstone. We continue to grow both 
maintenance and project activities in KSA and Kuwait and we have 
delivered on initial contracts in Iraq, having established a base 
in-country during the year. We continue to seek areas for further 
expansion to drive future growth.
Organisation and people
We employ over 16,000 employees across our global operations. 
Their professionalism, competency and commitment are critical to the 
delivery of our business. We continue to invest in developing our people 
and ensuring that everyone can achieve their potential at Cape. We have 
well established management and leadership development programmes, 
both for our current and future leaders. We provide specialist skills training, 
including the attainment of internationally recognised qualifications, 
to our site based employees around the world to ensure they can work 
safely and deliver our services to the required standard. In 2016, we 
completed the roll out of a global applicant tracking system to support 
our recruitment processes, allowing quicker and more accurate 
recruitment with improved data and visibility for managers. It also 
provides us with an opportunity to proactively contact appropriately 
skilled people who have previously worked for Cape. This reduces both 
the cost and time taken to recruit, together with greater assurance of 
the calibre of the individuals whom we are hiring. In 2016, we received 
around 3,500 applications per month globally via this system.
Outlook
With a robust order book and a good start to the year, the Board 
is confident that the business will deliver another strong trading 
performance in 2017. The UK business has implemented 
improvement measures to deal with the small number of 
commercial issues that affected its performance in 2016. It has 
also been restructured to better enable the business to pursue 
growth opportunities in the UK market whilst providing technical 
support for specialist service opportunities elsewhere in the Group. 
This is expected to drive a substantial margin improvement in the 
UK business in 2017 which should more than offset the effect of 
any margin pressures experienced elsewhere in the Group.
Conditions in the Group’s end markets are expected to remain mixed 
in the near-term with relatively weak demand from the upstream oil and 
gas sector being balanced by more solid demand from the downstream 
oil and gas and power generation sectors. Demand for maintenance 
services is expected to be stable over the medium to long term, with 
construction activity levels expected to be more volatile given investment 
in new projects is more affected by resource pricing. The UK nuclear 
new build market could provide substantial opportunity for the business 
in the long term, although the timing of investment remains uncertain 
despite the welcome approval for Hinkley Point by the UK Government.
Although the recent industrial disease claims litigation has required 
significant attention from the Board and senior management, we have 
remained focussed on the underlying business during this period and 
in particular, organic growth opportunities. The recent settlement of the 
insurer product liability litigation removes a material risk to the business 
and the distraction of a likely protracted appeals process, enabling 
management to focus on the development of the core business.
With the long-term drivers of demand for our services remaining 
robust, I remain confident that our strategy will deliver increased 
shareholder value over the medium to long term.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
14 March 2017
