 Chairman’s statement
DRIVING LONG-TERM  
VALUE CREATION WITH 
RESPONSIBLE OVERSIGHT
Ian Durant, Chairman
Total return
-6%
Dividend
1.5p
Total shareholder return
pence
10 May
2010
31 Dec
2010
31 Dec
2011
31 Dec
2012
31 Dec
2013
31 Dec
2015
31 Dec
2016
31 Dec
2014
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
Capco FTSE 350 Real Estate Index
OVERVIEW
2016 was a year of notable political and economic dislocation 
which has affected the London property market. London remains 
a very attractive investment market, a desirable retail destination 
and residential location. Looking through short-term market 
movements Capco’s long-term strategy for its two unique estates 
remains unchanged. During 2016, Capco achieved good progress 
at both Covent Garden and Earls Court and, although it was a 
challenging year in the residential market, I am confident that 
Capco will deliver value creation for our shareholders over the 
coming years.
PERFORMANCE
Despite strong rental growth at Covent Garden and significant 
progress on site at Earls Court, Capco’s total shareholder return 
for the year, which comprises share price performance plus the 
dividends paid during the year, was -32.3 per cent. Total return  
for the year was -5.5 per cent, which represents the change in net 
assets plus the dividends paid during the year. The total value of 
Capco’s property portfolio fell by 4.4 per cent on a like-for-like 
basis to £3.7 billion.
Covent Garden delivered ERV growth of 7.9 per cent during the 
year resulting in a valuation increase of 6.4 per cent on a like-for-
like basis. The excellent performance of Covent Garden was not 
sufficient to offset the decline in land values at Earls Court which 
fell by 20.4 per cent like-for-like due to adverse conditions in the 
Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2016 6  London residential market following stamp duty changes and the 
outcome of the EU Referendum.
The Covent Garden team continues to focus on achieving rental 
growth through creative asset management, strategic investment 
and place-making. Covent Garden is an internationally renowned 
destination successfully attracting global brands and visitors. 
Following a record year of leasing activity, new Zone A rental levels 
were achieved across the estate and management has released a 
new ERV target of £125 million to be achieved by December 2020. 
Work on the Floral Court development continues on schedule and 
will create high quality retail, restaurant and residential space on 
the estate.
It has been another year of progress on the ground at Earls Court. 
The demolition to ground level of the former Exhibition Centres 
was completed during the year and land enablement works are 
now underway preparing the site for future development. The first 
residential completions at Lillie Square took place at the end of 
2016 with the first units being handed over in time for Christmas. 
The strategy remains focused on value creation by exploring 
opportunities to evolve and enhance the Earls Court Masterplan.
The Venues business continues to strengthen with a reliable and 
growing income stream reflecting its excellent prospects as a 
central London venue.
The Board and I would like to thank Capco’s employees for their 
work during the year and the achievements made in delivering 
Capco’s business plans at Covent Garden, Earls Court and Venues.
FINANCIAL POSITION AND DIVIDENDS
Capco’s financial position is strong with low leverage, high 
liquidity and modest capital commitments. Responsible 
management of capital and prudent financing from a variety  
of sources is a key feature of Capco’s strategy to ensure the 
Company maintains a strong balance sheet. During the year, 
Capco’s liquidity was significantly strengthened by the completion 
of a £100 million financing of the Olympia business, a US Private 
Placement totalling £175 million and the £150 million (£95 million 
Capco share) HCA facility at Earls Court to fund infrastructure 
works on site. The business is well positioned to support its  
future activities and withstand periods of uncertainty.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend of 1.0 pence per share, 
which brings the total dividend for 2016 to 1.5 pence per share.
DIRECTORS
There were a number of changes to the Board in 2016. In March we 
welcomed Anthony Steains as a new independent Non-executive 
Director. He brings a diverse perspective to the Board, being 
resident in Asia and experienced in corporate finance activity. 
Following the retirement of Ian Henderson at the AGM, Gerry 
Murphy became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee  
and Henry Staunton became Senior Independent Director.
Situl Jobanputra was appointed as Chief Financial Officer with 
effect from 1 January 2017, following Soumen Das’ departure at  
the end of the year. Soumen had been with the Company since its 
listing in 2010 and we are grateful for his substantial contribution. 
Situl’s appointment reflects Capco’s commitment to developing 
the talent of our employees and promoting from within the 
Company where possible. I am delighted to welcome him to 
the Board.
The Board is committed to encouraging diversity and the 
development of our people across the business.
You can read more on the Board’s succession planning in the Nomination Committee 
report on page 68.
During the year Gerry Murphy has led a review of our 
remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and the 
Remuneration Committee is proposing a revised remuneration 
package that will simplify our existing arrangements whilst 
seeking to incentivise management and align their interests  
with those of our shareholders. The proposals will be put to 
shareholders for approval at our forthcoming AGM.
You can read more about the proposals in the Directors’ Remuneration Report on 
page 70.
BOARD OVERSIGHT
The Board and individual Directors regularly take opportunities 
to visit Capco’s assets and see for ourselves the transformations 
that are taking place. This and the regular briefings we receive 
from operational management help us gain a real understanding 
of the business challenges and opportunities.
In taking its decisions the Board assesses and balances the 
interests of the different stakeholders who have involvement with 
Capco, its properties and the surrounding communities. As well as 
our shareholders, this includes our employees, partners, tenants, 
lenders, government and the communities where we operate. In 
developing and delivering our plans we undertake significant 
stakeholder engagement and the Board is kept fully informed  
of feedback received.
The delivery of Capco’s strategy is underpinned by comprehensive 
policies designed to ensure that the business plan is delivered in 
line with the Board’s expectations. These policies are promoted 
across the Company to create a culture of accountability and 
responsibility and to ensure that all of our employees understand 
their role within the business and the standards to which they 
must operate. Reflecting this, I am pleased to report that the 
Group’s revised risk management structure which was implemented 
in 2016 is operating effectively and efficiently and the Board is 
pleased with the health and safety record achieved at the Group’s 
project sites.
LOOKING AHEAD
Despite macro-economic uncertainty and challenging market 
conditions, Capco’s strategy remains clear and focused. London  
is an outstanding global city and we have two of its best estates. 
Capco’s strong balance sheet and unique assets are well-placed for 
management to create and deliver long-term value for shareholders.
Ian Durant
Chairman
21 February 2017
www.capitalandcounties.com 7 
Governance Financial statements Strategic report
