 I am pleased to present our 
results for the year ended 
30 September 2016. 
This has been another successful and 
exceptionally busy year with the key 
highlights being:
 – Ground rent transaction raised £30m 
 – Increased organic initiatives including 
reconfigurations and property purchases
 – Completion of two acquisitions during 
the year which add to our geography 
and service offering
 – Further strengthening of management 
team and investment in IT systems
 – Benefit from the improved terms of the 
new banking facilities completed in 
July 2015
It is really pleasing to note that we have 
continued to maintain our position as a 
leading care provider with our good quality 
ratings across the Group. Moreover, we 
have extended our Care Pathways through 
successful outcomes for the people we 
support. As a result we have improved our 
capacity during the year which has led to an 
increase in all of our financial KPIs and our 
underlying EBITDA.
This has produced an impressive set of 
financial results where:
 – Revenue has increased by 19.9% to £149m
 – Underlying EBITDA has increased by 
14.2% to £37.1m
 – EBITDA has increased by 54.1% to 41.3m
 – Underlying PBT has increased by 18.6% 
to £26.1m
 – PBT has increased by 139.8% to £22.5m
 – Underlying diluted EPS had increased 
by 19.6% to 38.03p
 – Diluted EPS has increased by 162.1% 
to 36.17p
 – Improved cash inflows from operating 
activities by 11.0% to £34.2m
 – Full year dividend increased by 11.6% 
to 6.25p 
All of the above mentioned initiatives 
demonstrate a solid performance on 
delivery of both the key financial and 
non-financial metrics and puts the Group 
in the strong position to target further 
underlying EPS growth going forward.
The Group has stood out from its peer 
group of providers as a company that 
can successfully combine quality, integrity 
and sound financial acumen and has 
consistently achieved high care quality 
ratings. Our credibility as the provider of 
choice has never been stronger and we 
continue our successful growth strategy 
with a confident outlook.
In December 2015 the Company announced 
the acquisition of ROC North West for an 
10 CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016
A busy 2016 creating a 
springboard for further 
growth
Chairman’s Statement
Farouq Sheikh 
Chairman initial cash payment of £8.7m. This purchase 
utilised the remainder of the net proceeds 
from the Group’s share placement in March 
2015. The whole of the £21m gross placing 
was spent on the earnings enhancing 
acquisitions of Spark of Genius, Dawn Hodge 
and ROC North West within a nine-month 
period.
In February 2016 the Company announced 
a ground rent transaction which raised £30m 
in cash to support its growth strategy. The 
innovative ground rent agreement is with the 
funds managed by Alpha Real Capital at a net 
initial yield of 3.4%. Under the terms of the 
agreement, the freehold to 41 CareTech 
properties were transferred to Alpha’s 
managed funds in exchange for a cash sum 
of £30 million and security of tenure with a 
150-year term. The commencing rent will be 
£1.07m per annum, which will rise with the 
Retail Price Index on a five-yearly compound 
basis at between 0% and 5% per annum. 
The transaction releases a significant amount 
of cash for reinvestment in growth 
opportunities whilst maintaining a virtual 
freehold interest in the properties, which are 
located mainly in the South East and represent 
less than a quarter of the Company’s freehold 
portfolio. This further highlights the extent to 
which the valuation of our freehold portfolio is 
in excess of our book cost due to the profit 
created by the transaction.
A month later in March 2016 the Company 
announced the acquisition of Oakleaf Care 
(Hartwell) for an initial cash payment of 
£18.3m, thus utilising 60% of the ground rent 
money raised. Oakleaf offers both highly 
specialised rehabilitation beds for men with 
acquired brain injury as well as community-
based stepdown provision, a service that 
reflects the Group’s Care Pathway in adult 
high acuity care.
During 2016 we again closed several services 
for reconfiguration which impacted the 
growth in revenue. Offsetting this there are 
better fees following our reconfiguration plus 
the impact of cost saving initiatives and the 
time and attendance system has further 
improved underlying EBITDA. The Group’s 
organic development programme will 
continue with further reconfigurations and 
for 2017 we have a strong pipeline of 
development opportunities with two property 
purchases soon after the year end.
In the 11 years since joining AIM, the business 
has transformed from being very focused on 
supporting adults with a learning disability 
through residential and day care settings to 
one where today we cater for young people 
and children with complex needs across a 
range of settings, be it residential, supported 
living or community support. We focus on the 
most complex and vulnerable young people 
and the market for this client group stands at 
over £10bn. There is currently an undersupply 
of specialist beds in the niche area and the 
market is growing by almost 3% per annum. 
Over the years we have developed a range 
of Care Pathways and helped many that we 
support to live more independently. This is 
a fantastic outcome for both us and the 
individuals that we support and it also helps 
local authorities meet the ever increasing cost 
of social care provision.
Even with significant growth we have 
achieved to date we still have less than 2% 
of this very large and fragmented market. 
With the increasing regulatory burden, the 
opportunity for further consolidation is even 
more attractive. 
Dividend
The Group policy has been to increase the 
total dividend per year broadly in line with 
the movement in underlying diluted earnings 
per share.
That growth in 2016 was 19.6% so the Board 
has proposed a final dividend of 6.25p 
(2015: 5.60p) per share bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 9.25p (2015: 8.40p) 
per share. This represents a full year increase 
of 10.1% year on year. The final dividend will 
be paid, subject to shareholder approval, 
on 8 May 2017, with an ex-dividend date of 
9 March 2017 and an associated record date 
of 10 March 2017.
Our Board
There have been no changes to the Board 
during the year. As a foundation for growth 
the Senior Executive Team at CareTech 
has been further strengthened following 
the appointment of John Ivers in 2015 as 
Chief Operating Officer and several senior 
appointments since with more planned, thus 
underpinning the growth of the business. 
During the year the Remuneration 
Committee, the Audit Committee and the 
Care Governance and Safeguarding 
Committee were unchanged.
Our people
We have completed our planned evolution 
into two well defined operating divisions, 
Children Services and Adult Services, and this 
has generated organisational efficiencies. 
Simplifying the structure has also supported 
planning and service delivery with a more 
powerful approach to development.
Our continuing growth, measurable success 
and forward-looking approach are a 
reflection of the hard work and dedication 
of staff and managers throughout the 
organisation. I am always drawn to the 
achievements of our excellent front line 
staff, which is inevitable as we are first and 
foremost a care organisation. Their care and 
commitment would be much less without 
the dedicated support of our administrators 
and support teams whose hard work and 
energy is critical to the success of our 
Company and the care we provide.
In March 2016 the Company announced the 
creation of the CareTech Sharesave Scheme 
which represents a Government supported 
method for any of our staff to have the 
opportunity to participate in the Company’s 
equity. Over 200 members of staff chose to 
join this new savings scheme and we plan to 
have a second CareTech Sharesave Scheme 
in 2017 as this is one part of our staff 
retention strategy.
Outlook and prospects
We understand the market and have 
anticipated shifts in social and health policy. 
Our understanding of the social care 
environment remains strong and we are 
positioned to meet market changes and 
have an improved platform for growth. 
With the money raised from shareholders last 
year, from the ground rent transaction this year 
and our own free cash flow generated from 
the business, we have major investment plans 
for 2017 and beyond with key new organic 
developments and bolt-on acquisitions. 
Importantly, we have also, and continue to, 
further strengthen our management team, 
offering a forceful blend of experience, 
commercial wisdom and dedication to care. 
I have no doubt that the next few years will 
see continuing growth and care excellence 
which will help deliver our target of double 
digit growth in underlying EPS. 
Farouq Sheikh
Chairman
23 January 2017
Strategic Review Governance – – Financial Statements
CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
Strategic Review Governance – – Financial Statements
