 It gives me great pleasure to report again on a 
successful year that reflects the hard work of 
all of our management team, the enthusiasm 
of our staff and the support of our Board.
Overview
The Group has continued to build upon its 
solid foundations and remains in a strong 
position to continue as a leading provider 
of high quality specialist social care services 
in a large and growing UK market which 
remains fragmented.
The Group has continued to develop 
through organic growth and reconfigurations 
and with the acquisitions in December 2015 
and March 2016 it has gained experienced 
management teams with skilled leaders. The 
new businesses have integrated and settled 
well, and our focus on organic growth 
remains strong.
A key recent strategy has been the 
development of the Learning Services 
division which continues to have a positive 
impact on gaining new staff, their training 
and retention. There have been a number 
of other measures like the ExSOP, Sharesave 
Scheme and Level 5 in Care Management 
training scheme for managers.
Consolidation and creating 
new opportunities
CareTech remains at the forefront of social 
care outsourcing across both Children 
Services and Adult Services in the UK and 
in the year there has been a further 
increase in working closely with 
commissioners and regulators.
National public policy continues to be 
a significant driver of local authority 
commissioning intentions and behaviour. 
For a number of years public policy 
has encouraged greater personalisation 
of health and social care for adults. 
Commissioners and leading providers 
are driving change that will mean offering 
people more choice and control over the 
care, treatment and support they receive 
while at the same time maintaining the 
quality and safety of those services.
Our care priorities drive successful outcomes 
for our service users and follow closely the 
guidance from central Government.
Our key focus for delivering quality services 
and positive outcomes is supported by the 
following key factors:
Communication 
 – We have open and frank dialogue with 
our service users, their families and social 
workers, as well as the regulators.
Independence
 – In our social care and health contracts 
we aim to help our service users to 
return to an ordinary independent life. 
It may be children who can return to 
their birth families or live independently. 
It may be adults who we can help on the 
pathway to recovery following a mental 
health breakdown, or acquired brain 
injury or people with learning disability 
who we can support towards 
independent living.
Housing care and support 
 – We know that most people aspire to have 
a place of their own, employment and 
ongoing support. We have structured 
our services, developing new provision 
and creative partnerships with housing 
providers to enable these aspirations to 
be achieved whenever possible and we 
are tailoring training to assist young 
people and adults leaving our services 
to gain employment.
Self-directed support 
 – It is pivotal to government policy that 
adults and children receiving social care 
are fully engaged in the support that they 
require. With some adults this extends 
to the provision of a cash sum enabling 
them to purchase their care and support 
directly. CareTech managers have been 
further reviewing our systems and 
delivering training throughout the 
organisation to ensure that we are able 
to deliver the requirements of self-
directed support.
Quality and dignity
 – CareTech has always delivered high 
quality care in exceptional premises. 
However, we have never been 
complacent about this and have 
undertaken reviews to ensure that we 
deliver the right quality at an acceptable 
price. We have also learned a great 
deal from the experience of our NHS 
colleagues and developed a Dignity 
Test to ensure that our front line and 
administrative staff treat all our clients 
in ways that promote dignity.
Haroon Sheikh 
Chief Executive Officer
20 CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016
A solid foundation  
for growth 
Chief Executive’s Statement and Performance Review Progress in the year
The year has seen continued progress as 
the Group concentrates on the introduction 
of innovative new services developed in 
partnership with local authority commissioners 
reconfigured from within our existing 
portfolio of properties or through new 
properties either purchased or rented for 
service users for supported living.
In December 2015 the Group acquired ROC 
North West and in March 2016 Oakleaf Care 
(Hartwell), so the progress has been a mixture 
of organic development and acquisitions.
ROC North West is based in Lancashire and is 
a provider of residential care and education for 
young people with complex needs. Oakleaf 
Care (Hartwell) is based in Northamptonshire 
and is a specialist in the care and rehabilitation 
of men with acquired brain injury.
Our Adult Services have added 70 beds in 
the year, being 63 in Supported Living and 
in Residential.
Children Services have added 31 beds in the 
year in three services. 
The Group also continues to realise the 
benefit of organisational improvements that 
were put in place over the past few years. 
We have continued to strengthen the 
management structure with further senior 
appointments planned and to improve the 
efficiency of our processes following further 
investment in new systems which have gone 
live or we are working on now. We are seeing 
the benefits of new executive appointments 
which continue to have a positive impact 
across the services.
New systems were procured during the year 
for the Group’s training solutions including 
e-learning with standard automated reports 
as well as for maintenance, hosting, data 
analytics and e-compliance in order to 
benefit from cutting edge technology.
These improvements have put us in a strong 
position to benefit from a number of the 
commissioning opportunities by working in 
partnership with the NHS and local authorities.
Care Pathway range and services
The Group’s focus remains the provision of 
specialist social care through its five divisions. 
This is underpinned by a well-defined range 
of provisions which meet the commissioner 
requirements. These services are now even 
more extensive and focused on providing 
high quality care and positive outcomes for 
all of our service users.
The Group continued to develop and grow its 
existing four operating divisions, which come 
under the two outcome-based sectors of 
Adult Services and Children Services. We 
continue to extend both our geographic 
coverage and our outcome based Care 
Pathway range of services organically and 
by acquisition and through the purchase and 
sale of properties to meet the needs of our 
marketplace, specifically the requirement 
for greater acuity service provision for both 
Children and Young People and Adults. 
This ensures that CareTech is in a very strong 
position to address the demands of our 
evolving marketplace.
The Learning Services division was expanded 
by the acquisition of Dawn Hodge Associates 
(DHA) late in 2015, and I am particularly 
delighted to report on the integration and 
development of our apprenticeship model 
in 2016. The team has already completed 
pioneering work by developing the 
apprenticeship model in social care, and the 
CareTech Aspire Programme which takes 
CareTech’s care staff from the foundations of 
mandatory and statutory training to offer the 
opportunity to complete a Level 2 or Level 3 
apprenticeship. At the year end, this programme 
had 359 CareTech apprentices undertaking 
the qualifications and 123 of our support staff 
had already completed a Level 2 or Level 3 
apprenticeship. There are also 64 staff 
members benefiting from Level 5, Team Leader, 
Business Administration or Customer Services.
We remain committed to the growth of 
residential care solutions for adults and 
children with the most complex needs 
and the CareTech Group has embraced 
the development of home-based solutions 
including foster care where demand for 
more specialist services remain strong. Our 
residential care services for children cater 
for young people with particularly difficult 
issues and offer a national service; with 
strong growth seen in the North of England 
with the addition of ROC North West which 
has care and educational services. Since 
that acquisition we have purchased 
properties in Scotland and North West 
England for both Spark of Genius and ROC 
North West to develop into new services. 
Our adult services offer a solid and reliable 
provision across the whole spectrum of 
service offerings which now includes 
acquired brain injuries and we see a 
particular volume demand in the area of 
supported living, balanced by renewed 
demand for more specialised residential 
care solutions.
Our strategy is to offer a bespoke range 
of options so that we can maintain the 
Care Pathways that distinguish us from 
other providers.
Overview of progress
Our focus during the past year has continued 
to be further building on the businesses 
which established the Care Pathways whilst 
introducing innovative new solutions to meet 
the challenges faced by care commissioners 
and then adding newly acquired businesses 
with complementary skills.
Capacity has increased by 203 places 
principally because we have continued to 
reconfigure services and acquired ROC 
North West and Oakfleaf Care (Hartwell). 
Occupancy levels within our mature 
services remain at a creditable 93%, or 
86% when taking into account our services 
under development and transition.
Much has been written about personalisation 
and I felt it would be useful to set out our 
own understanding and commitment to 
personalisation.
Personalisation to us means recognising 
people as individuals who have strengths 
and preferences and putting them at the 
centre of their own care and support.
National winners of the CareTech staff awards.
Strategic Review Governance – – Financial Statements
CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016 21 The traditional service-led approach has 
often meant that people have not been able 
to procure the kind of support they need, or 
receive tailored care assisance. Personalised 
approaches such as self-directed support 
and personal budgets involve enabling 
people to identify their own needs and 
make choices about how and when they 
are supported to live their lives. 
Our two business divisions of Adult Services 
and Children Services comprise the 
following four Care Pathways and our 
Learning Services division.
1. Adult Learning Disabilities
Revenue £84.4m (2015: £75.7m)
Underlying EBITDA* £26.4m (2015: £24.5m)
Capacity 1,669 (2015: 1,496)
Adult Learning Disabilities provides 
individually tailor-made solutions for people 
living in their own homes, residential care or 
independent supported living schemes. We 
can work with clients to deliver self-directed 
support packages.
For some people residential care will 
continue as the preferred option and we 
increasingly offer several types of supported 
living and packages of individualised 
self-directed support to people in their 
own homes.
This includes adult residential care homes, 
independent supported living and 
community support services.
In March 2016, Oakleaf Care (Hartwell) was 
acquired and added its range of pathways 
from rehabilitation through to long-term 
and end-of-life care for men with acquired 
brain injury. This acquisition builds on the 
Group’s existing neurological services and 
represents a further regional growth 
platform for the Group.
The principal reason for the increase in 
underlying EBITDA of £1.9m was the 
acquisition of Oakleaf Care (Hartwell) and 
reconfiguration of homes from Mental 
Health and their reopening late in the 
current financial year
We have continued to work closely with 
local authority and NHS commissioners and 
this has helped us to achieve our growth 
through the past year. We take a long-term 
view, recognising that change will continue 
and with this in mind I am pleased to report 
that redevelopment of some of our long stay 
residential provision has been a great success 
over the past year and will continue to meet 
the changing requirements of commissioners 
and families.
The market for high acuity care and the 
support of people with learning disability is 
growing year on year. Demand for low-level 
support has been impacted by the cuts in 
local authority expenditure but this is not an 
area of activity in which CareTech operates. 
Conversely, resources for those with the 
highest level of need are being maintained 
and increased in some local authorities.
During the past year we have developed 
74 beds through reconfiguration of existing 
residential services. 
Further new provision is under development.
2. Mental Health
Revenue £5.7m (2015: £6.4m)
Underlying EBITDA* £1.7m (2015: £1.9m)
Capacity 114 (2015: 114)
The reduction in revenue in Mental Health 
arises because there have been a number of 
services reconfigured and transferred to Adult 
Learning Disabilities.
Mental Health works in partnerships with 
the NHS to ensure a successful transition 
out of acute care, delivering pathways to 
independence. We have an outstanding 
track record for helping people away from 
acute care and supporting them in their 
own homes.
The adult services for this Care Pathway 
include a community-based hospital, adult 
residential care homes, independent 
supported living and community outreach 
with some transitional services transferred 
within the Group.
Community Mental Health has always been 
a critical but relatively neglected area of social 
care. However, this is changing as the NHS 
drives to lower bed capacity and accelerated 
early discharge from acute psychiatric 
hospital care. 
The growth of social care is certain and the 
response by Government to one of the key 
difficulties is progressing. There has been 
some progress in the removal of large 
numbers of learning disabled people from 
the controversial “Treatment and Assessment 
Centres” operating at various locations 
throughout the UK. CareTech has never 
operated any centres of this type but we 
understand that the CEO of NHS England has 
been tasked with ensuring that these centres 
are re-provided as a matter of urgency. 
CareTech is seeking opportunities to support 
the project and to offer a comprehensive 
solution within its community homes.
We are well positioned for expansion 
in Mental Health and have a sustainable 
infrastructure to deliver growth. 
3. Foster Care
Revenue £8.7m (2015: £9.8m)
Underlying EBITDA* £2.2m (2015: £2.5m)
Capacity 301 (2015: 301)
Foster Care provides for both mainstream 
and specialist foster care in small supportive 
groups across England and Wales for children 
with disabilities. We also provide foster care 
family assessments in the home rather than 
in a residential setting.
The unchanged capacity, and a fall in revenue 
and underlying EBITDA in Foster Care arises 
due to the competitive nature of the market 
as well as the change to family assessments 
in the home. It is also due to capacity being 
reported on the new basis of children that 
carers are able to look after rather than the 
number they are approved for. 
“Foster Care is on a rising 
trend in terms of both 
numbers placed in foster 
care and expenditure by local 
authorities.”
Laing and Buisson 2013.
This trend is driven by cost considerations, 
where fostering is considerably less expensive 
than residential care and by perceived quality 
care factors. It is generally held that fostering 
in an ordinary family home delivers better 
quality than any residential setting. However, 
the rising tide of fostering has been 
constrained by the challenge of finding foster 
carers with the right skill and motivation 
alongside preference by social workers to 
place within local authority services rather 
than the independent sector.
* Before unallocated costs.
22 CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Statement and Performance Review continued In 2013, 46% of children placed in foster homes 
were outsourced to the independent sector. 
This compares with 67% placed in residential 
homes operated by independent providers.
Our Foster Care teams and Young People 
Residential Services teams are working 
alongside each other to offer the best 
outcomes for young people.
Our market intelligence suggests that most, if 
not all, independent sector fostering agencies 
are still experiencing some degree of “hold 
back” at present. However, the consensus 
view is that this will not last long and local 
authorities will inevitably return to progressive 
outsourcing of foster care provision.
Outsourcing is well established in the culture 
of most local authorities, but the current 
austerity measures have led a small number 
of authorities to reflect on the 50% fee 
premium paid for independent fostering. This 
disparity of cost can be attributed in part to 
the fact that the most complex and therefore 
high cost cases are placed in the care of 
independent providers. However, it is also 
clear that local authorities fail to undertake a 
full cost analysis of their in-house provision. 
Wherever this has been done, outsourcing is 
demonstrably much better value.
Demand for foster care has increased overall 
but we have noted an increasing trend among 
some local authorities to make provision 
in-house for all but the most complex 
children. In our view this is an expensive and 
unsustainable approach that exposes local 
authority commissioners to risk. Our own 
services are being maintained at an 
acceptable level. 
Looking forward, we are training our foster 
carers with the skills required to manage more 
complex work and have linked the fostering 
division with our residential team for children so 
that we can maintain an effective Care Pathway.
4. Young People Residential Services
Revenue £39.0m (2015: £22.4m)
Underlying EBITDA* £11.8m (2015: £8.2m)
Capacity 235 (2015: 205)
A number of children and young people need 
to live in specialised residential services and 
receive education. As far as practicable we 
aim to help these children move into a more 
normalised family style environment.
This segment contains children residential 
care homes, which includes facilities for 
children with learning difficulties and 
emotional behavioural disorders (“EBD”), 
and small specialist schools.
In December 2015 ROC North West was 
added and gave a further geographic 
spread to fit between the current children’s 
residential services in Scotland (Spark of 
Genius and ACAD) and North Wales (Branas 
Isaf) and services in Staffordshire and 
Yorkshire. It also strengthened the residential 
care and education services for young people 
with complex needs, especially EBD.
In the year this segment benefited from new 
services which have added 30 beds. In 2015 
we also acquired Spark of Genius which 
provides significant benefits across the divisions 
due to their well established education facilities 
across Scotland and North East England.
Children residential services have been 
growing as our reputation for quality care and 
support spreads. We are currently developing 
new beds and places that have been 
commissioned during the past year. 
5. Learning Services
Revenue £11.2m (2015: £10.0m) 
Underlying EBITDA* £1.0m (2015: £0.9m)
Learning Services comprises EQL Solutions 
which was acquired in 2013 and is a national 
provider specialising in employment and 
training services to young people and adults 
and Dawn Hodge Associates, a regional 
provider specialising in the social care sector 
was acquired in 2015.
Their intensive pre-employment, development 
and apprenticeship programmes use public 
funds from the Skills Funding Agency to lay 
the foundations for individuals to achieve their 
career goals while helping to provide businesses 
with the vital skills they need in their workforce.
As well as supporting the workforce, EQL 
Solutions has also developed programmes 
for service users by enhancing the pathways 
to independent living and employment. Young 
people leaving care, for example, often do not 
know where to find the right job opportunities 
or have the opportunity to access employer-
focused training. We can now bridge that gap 
by supporting young people as they make the 
transition to adult life. We are also exploring 
how best to help individuals return to 
employment after mental illness and to give 
people with learning disabilities the skills and 
confidence to gain employment so that they 
are able to live more independently.
Early mapping with CareTech’s core 
business has gone well. Good progress has 
been made in identifying the potential for 
EQL Solutions to add value to CareTech’s 
attraction and recruitment of staff and their 
retention, helping new employees gain the 
skills and qualifications to grow a successful 
career in care through an apprenticeship.
I am pleased to confirm that we have made 
good progress with Learning Services and 
the team are strongly motivated to develop 
their initiatives in the world of social care 
through the Aspire Programme and the 
Team Leader programme.
Aspire has been developed as a unique 
and innovative scheme that will ensure all 
CareTech’s support workers receive 
mandatory and statutory training to the 
highest standard whilst also being offered 
the opportunity to complete a Level 2 or 
Level 3 apprenticeship which has been 
carefully tailored to suit their role and 123 
completed this apprenticeship.
CareTech apprentices have now begun their 
training with 359 CareTech support workers 
undertaking the apprenticeship programme.
The Team Leader programme has 64 staff 
members on Level 5 programmes.
In early 2016 Dawn Hodge Associates 
retained its Ofsted “Outstanding” rating 
which is an achievement that we are very 
pleased to report.
In 2017 with the introduction of the 
Apprenticeship Levy there will be significant 
changes to the sector, but we believe that 
we are well placed to take advantage of the 
new market conditions.
The services of EQL Solutions and Dawn 
Hodge Associates complement each other 
and provide the foundations for a strong 
learning division within the Group.
Haroon Sheikh
Chief Executive Officer
23 January 2017
* Before unallocated costs.
Strategic Review Governance – – Financial Statements
CareTech Holdings PLC – Annual Report and Accounts 2016 23
