 04
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
STRATEGIC DELIVERY
It has been a significant year in the strategic 
development of the Group with the disposal 
of the Food division at the end of the year. As 
discussed below, we believe this action by the 
Group enhances shareholder value as a result  
of having a much stronger focus on growing  
both the Agriculture and Engineering divisions.
In trading terms, the year has seen depressed 
farmgate milk prices, which for most of the 
year adversely impacted our farming customers. 
The Engineering division also continues to 
be negatively impacted by the current low oil 
price. In addition, the North of England was 
affected by severe floods during December 
2015. Despite these challenges, the Group 
has delivered a robust performance ahead of 
last year. The Board recognises this strong 
performance and thanks every one of our 
employees and our management team for  
their expertise, dedication and support.
Revenue for the year from continuing operations 
fell by 4.9% to £314.9m (2015: £331.3m). 
Profit before tax from continuing operations, 
excluding a profit from discontinued operations 
of £2.8m, was up 2.8% to £14.1m (2015: 
£13.7m). This comprised an 8.6% increase in 
Agriculture operating profit to £10.3m (2015: 
£9.4m), and a 4.9% reduction in Engineering 
operating profit to £2.5m (2015: £2.6m). 
Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations were up by 7.0% to 10.7 pence per 
share (2015: 10.0 pence), with fully diluted 
earnings per share of 10.5 pence (2015: 
9.7 pence) and adjusted earnings per share, 
excluding non-recurring items and amortisation 
of intangibles, of 10.9 pence (2015: 10.2 
pence). Net cash at the year end was £8.1m 
(2015: net debt of £24.4m).
STRATEGIC REFOCUSING
Following an approach by Whitworths Holdings 
Ltd for the acquisition of Carr’s Flour Mills 
Ltd (the Food division), the Board undertook a 
strategic review of the Group’s three divisions.  
It concluded that the nature of the offer presented 
an excellent opportunity to realise the value  
of the Food division, whilst allowing the Group 
to further strengthen its focus on growing both 
the Agriculture and Engineering divisions in  
a way that could enhance shareholder value. 
A decision was therefore taken by the Board 
to dispose of the Food division for a gross 
consideration of £36.0m on a cash and debt 
free basis (the Disposal). The purchase price 
was subject to an adjustment based on actual 
working capital at the date of sale compared 
to the agreed average working capital. After 
adjustment for the carrying value of net debt 
amounting to £7.9m and the allowance for an 
estimated working capital adjustment of £3.2m, 
the Group received £24.9m in cash.
Given the significant amount of cash realised 
from the Disposal, the Board decided to return 
£16.0m of the net proceeds of the Disposal to 
shareholders in the form of a special dividend, 
which took place on 7 October 2016. The 
Group’s modest debt position after the special 
dividend enables it to pursue acquisition 
opportunities as and when appropriate. The 
Board believes that taking into account the 
£16.0m returned to shareholders and the 
potential investment in growth opportunities 
utilising the £8.9m cash retained from the net 
proceeds of the Disposal, the transaction should 
contribute to an increase in shareholder value.
Consistent with the above, on 24 October 2016, 
the Group has recently acquired a German 
engineering company, STABER GmbH (formerly 
called Städele GmbH), a long term supplier to 
our German remote handling business, for a 
gross consideration of €7.85m. This acquisition 
will enhance the intellectual property and 
growth potential of the existing German remote 
handling business.
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank  
the employees of Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd for all  
of their support and dedication over the years.  
I am pleased that in joining Whitworths 
Holdings Ltd, they have joined a company that 
is fully committed to continuing to build on 
the strong foundations laid out by Jonathan 
Dodgson Carr when he started the business  
back in 1831. I would also like to welcome  
the employees of STABER to the Group.
BUSINESS REVIEW
In Agriculture, our international feedblock 
business has delivered another excellent 
performance, driven by a strong performance 
in the USA where we have seen a significant 
increase in demand. Sales volumes have 
increased as a result of the strength of our 
branded product offering and the rebuilding  
of beef herds. In accordance with our strategy, 
we continue to invest in our production facilities 
and R&D programme, both in the UK and 
internationally, to drive future growth in existing 
markets and expansion into new geographies. 
Our UK retail business continued to build on 
the momentum established in previous years, 
with the expansion of the Country Store network 
into new territories both organically and through 
acquisitions. I am pleased that by the end of 
this calendar year we will be operating from 
41 locations across the UK. In the financial 
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the Group 
has delivered a solid set of results in the 
context of a challenging market.
“
” 05
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
year we acquired Green (Agriculture) Co in 
Northumberland and Phoenix Feeds Ltd  
in Lancashire, expanding our customer base in 
both regions. We welcome our new colleagues. 
We are grateful to our customers who have 
continued to support our business during 
this challenging year. We believe our strong 
geographic presence, the relevance of our 
product offering, and continued excellent 
customer service will be key requirements in 
supporting them over the forthcoming year.
Our Engineering division has had another tough 
year, impacted by the continuing downturn  
in the oil and gas market and several contract 
delays. The division is beginning to see the 
benefit of the resurgence in the UK nuclear 
market with several new contract wins, in 
particular the largest ever contract secured  
by the division awarded by Sellafield with a 
value of approximately £48m over the next  
ten years. We remain confident in the medium 
term prospects of the division as we continue  
to focus on nuclear and adjacent markets. 
GOVERNANCE
The Board is mindful of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code and takes its responsibilities 
very seriously. It continues to strive to comply 
with all areas of the Code and a full report on 
Corporate Governance can be found on pages  
25 to 27. All Directors will be standing for 
election at the Annual General Meeting (AGM)  
on 10 January 2017.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 2.7% increase in the 
final dividend to 1.9 pence per ordinary share, 
which together with the two interim dividends  
of 0.95 pence per ordinary share paid on  
13 May and 7 October 2016, make a total of  
3.8 pence per share for the year (2015: 3.7 
pence), representing an increase of 2.7%. The 
final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, 
will be paid on 13 January 2017 to Shareholders 
on the register on close of business 16 December 
2016, and the shares will go ex-dividend on  
15 December 2016. 
This final dividend and the two interim 
dividends are in addition to the special dividend 
of 17.54 pence per ordinary share paid on  
7 October 2016 following the disposal of  
Carr’s Flour Mills Ltd. 
THE BOARD 
Last year, John Worby was appointed as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Board, taking 
over as Senior Independent Director and Audit 
Committee Chairman from Alistair Wannop 
and Robert Heygate respectively. The Board 
has been further strengthened this year with 
the appointment of Non-Executive Director 
Ian Wood, who has extensive experience in 
the engineering and energy sectors, previously 
working for Centrica plc. 
In addition, on 10 September 2015 it was 
announced that Robert Heygate had decided 
to stand down from the Board after 25 years’ 
service, with effect from 30 April 2016. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank Bob for 
his contribution, dedication, enthusiasm, and 
support during his time with Carr’s.
OUTLOOK
The disposal of the Food division will support the 
Group’s ambition to achieve further growth and 
development in line with its strategic objectives 
across its remaining two divisions, Agriculture 
and Engineering. The Board sees opportunities 
for international growth of our feedblock business 
and to further build on our nuclear business 
capability in the short and medium term, as well 
as continuing to strengthen our UK Agricultural 
business. We will continue to identify acquisition 
opportunities while investing in our existing 
business for the future.
The Board’s expectations for the current 
financial year remain unchanged. Trading in 
the first quarter has started positively with a 
continued stabilising of farmgate milk prices. 
The climate of uncertainty relating to the UK’s 
exit from the European Union will continue 
in the short term, and there is medium term 
risk associated with UK Agriculture which is 
dependent on future Government policy and 
the terms of exit from the EU. In overall terms, 
some of the difficulties experienced in the UK 
as a result of Brexit have been offset as a result 
of the exchange rate benefit from overseas 
operations. The Board will continue to monitor 
the position and believe that the Group is 
well placed to respond to any challenges and 
opportunities that may arise.
CHRIS HOLMES DL
Chairman
16 November 2016
