 08
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
INTRODUCTION
2016 was the beginning of a transformational 
period for the Group culminating at the end 
of the financial year with the disposal of the 
Food division. The Group sold Carr’s Flour 
Mills Ltd (the Food division) to Whitworths 
Holdings Ltd, representing an exciting stage 
in the Group’s strategic development. The 
disposal enables the Group to focus on the 
Agriculture and Engineering divisions to drive 
future growth and improve the financial returns 
for our shareholders. Both of these divisions are 
internationally recognised for manufacturing 
value added and technologically advanced 
products with market leading brands.
Our strategy remains centred around four  
key pillars:
•  investing in our people, who are vital to  
the long term success of the business;
•  investing in our asset base, to ensure we 
retain our competitive advantage;
•  driving product innovation across each  
of our divisions; and
•  delivering growth through acquisitions  
and organic expansion.
These strategic pillars are at the heart of each 
division, and their continued implementation 
has ensured we have once again delivered 
another record year of profit for the Group.
Our investment in the business has continued 
to be a priority. Major projects commenced and 
completed in the year include:
•  £0.9m reconfiguration of feedblock site at Ayr;
•  £0.5m new silos at feedblock site in Silloth;
•  £1.7m acquisition of Phoenix Feeds Ltd  
in June 2016;
•  €1.0m high moisture feedblock plant in 
Oldenburg commissioned;
•  £0.3m acquisition of Green (Agriculture)  
Co September 2015;
•  £0.2m on new and redeveloped country  
stores at:-
 – Wigton
 – Leek
 – Penicuik
•   $0.5m office expansion at AFS;
•  €0.9m commencement of Wälischmiller 
showroom; and
•   £0.5m additional fuel tankers across the 
existing fuel depots.
After the year end the Group acquired  
STABER GmbH, formerly called Städele GmbH, 
a family owned engineering business located 
near the Group’s existing German operations in 
Markdorf. STABER has designed and developed 
specialised intellectual property, which will be 
strategically beneficial to the Group’s German 
operations in both the near and long term. This 
purchase is fully aligned with the Engineering 
division’s growth strategy of capitalising on the 
global resurgence of nuclear decommissioning 
as well as the use of robotic technologies in 
highly explosive environments.
OUTLOOK
The disposal of the Food division leaves 
the Group well placed to capitalise on the 
opportunity it presents by pursuing further 
organic and acquisitive growth in its two 
remaining higher margin divisions. 
 
The Board is keen to pursue opportunities on 
the international expansion of the feedblock 
division into new territories and pursue further 
opportunities in animal supplementation. In 
Engineering, there will be a focus on expanding 
the markets, territories and capabilities of the 
highly specialised remote handling engineering 
business, both organically and acquisitively,  
as well as pursuing complementary acquisitions 
that are strategically aligned to that division. 
The Group is operating in challenging global 
markets and as a result of the decision to leave  
the EU, the UK faces a period of uncertainty 
in the short-term. The Group is well placed to 
capitalise on any opportunities this presents,  
and with its inherent operational and geographical 
diversity is in a strong position to deal with 
this uncertainty. The current financial year has 
started positively and trading is in line with the 
Boards’ expectations.
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OPERATING PROFIT BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£10.3m
8.6% UP
FROM 2015
ENGINEERING 
£2.5m
4.9% DOWN
FROM 2015
We have once again  
delivered another  
record year of profit  
for the Group.
“
” 09
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
The Agriculture division has reported another 
record year, driven by its operational and 
geographic diversity. 
FEEDBLOCKS
Overall our global feedblock sales volumes  
were up 6.0% on last year.
Sales of feedblocks in the USA were at 
unprecedented levels with sales volumes, 
excluding joint ventures, up 5.1% on last year. 
Record production levels have been driven by 
an increase in market size with the continued 
rebuilding of the beef herds across our key 
territories, in addition to market share gains. 
The new SmartLic
®
 feedblock plant at Silver 
Springs, Nevada, was commissioned in the 
year with the first product being produced in 
January 2016. This plant will significantly 
extend the market reach and penetration in the 
western states of the USA, and alleviate the 
capacity pressure currently experienced by the 
Belle Fourche plant, South Dakota, which has 
been operating at capacity throughout the year. 
The Silver Springs plant is expected to make  
a full contribution in the current financial year, 
with the primary feedblock season in the  
region being August to February. 
Sales of feedblocks in the USA through 
our joint venture operations at Shelbyville, 
Tennessee and Sioux City, Iowa were up 
34.2% on last year. As a result of the success 
of the joint venture at Shelbyville, the Board 
has decided to expand our operations with the 
construction of a $4.6m new low moisture 
feedblock plant alongside the existing high 
moisture feedblock facility. It is anticipated 
that this will be completed within the current 
financial year ahead of the main feedblock 
season at the start of the 2018 financial year. 
This will extend our ability to supply low 
moisture blocks to the significant market of 
the eastern states of the USA, which cannot 
be reached by our existing operations. 
The exportation of Horslyx
®
, a product for 
the equine leisure market, into the USA has 
continued, with the business now working 
with several new distributors down the East 
Coast. We have continued with our UK 
research into the benefits of Megastart
®
 
and, following the successful conclusion of 
University trials, it has been demonstrated 
that Megastart
®
 significantly increases 
production of colostrum, which will improve 
the profitability of our UK dairy farm  
and suckler herd customers.
We continue to develop opportunities to 
expand geographically. The first shipment of 
Crystalyx
®
 into South America occurred in the 
year to facilitate the commencement of trials 
at FAI Farms (a commercial research institute 
in Brazil) and the Instituto de Zootecnia near 
Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo State.
The opportunities for expansion in New 
Zealand continue to be assessed, although 
progress was delayed during the year as a 
result of the adverse impact of the depressed 
global milk market on dairy farming in New 
Zealand. However, the New Zealand market 
continues to be a promising expansion 
opportunity for the feedblock business, and 
our medium term objective of building a low 
moisture block plant remains unchanged.
Operating profit for the year increased by 8.6%  
to £10.3m (2015: £9.4m) on revenue down  
by 4.4% to £284.8m (2015: £297.7m). 
AGRICULTURE
8.6% UP FROM 2015 
£10.3m
OPERATING PROFIT
£10.3m
£9.4m 2015
2016 10
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
UK AGRICULTURE 
The retail business has delivered a record 
performance, with the Country Store network 
across Northern England and Southern 
Scotland delivering a 5.0% increase in  
like for like sales and a 16.0% increase in 
total sales following the integration of the 
acquisitions of Green (Agriculture) Co and 
Reid and Robertson Ltd in September 2015 
and June 2015 respectively.
The strategy for the retail business has been 
to expand the geographic reach into adjacent 
territories, redevelop existing facilities and 
expand the product offering for the benefit 
of rural communities. During the year the 
product offer at the Balloch, Oban and Ayr 
stores has been extended, the Leek store has 
been refurbished and a new store at Wigton, 
Cumbria, has been opened. A new Country 
Store at Penicuik, Midlothian, is due to 
open on 1 December 2016 and will have a 
significant focus on the local equine market 
in addition to supplying our normal range 
of products and services. The opening of 
Penicuik will bring our total retail footprint  
to 41 locations.
In September 2015, Green (Agriculture) Co, 
an agricultural merchant business based at 
Morpeth, Northumberland was acquired. This 
retail business is situated near the existing 
machinery only Country Store and enhances 
the offering to the local community. It has 
been successfully integrated into the network 
of Country Stores and has made a positive 
contribution during the year.
In June 2016, Phoenix Feeds Ltd, an 
agricultural merchant business specifically 
retailing animal feed and based in  
Lancashire, was acquired and has been 
successfully integrated. 
During the year, compound feed volumes 
increased by 2.1% as a result of market 
share gains. This is a particularly robust 
performance against a market backdrop  
that declined by 4% nationally. However,  
due to the pressure on dairy farm incomes 
and the competitive nature of the feed 
market, margins were significantly reduced 
year on year.
Total machinery sales have been severely 
impacted by the downturn in farm incomes  
with sales declining 8.1% year on year.  
National tractor sales have declined 14.8%.
The oil distribution business has performed 
well with sales volumes increasing 7.1%  
year on year. This is a result of market share 
gains and the corresponding increase in  
the truck fleet. 
The flooding in December 2015 in the North 
of England had a significant impact on the 
Lancaster feed mill and the AminoMax
®
 
manufacturing facility. Global sales volumes 
of AminoMax
®
, the patented animal bypass 
protein product for dairy cows, are down 
3.9% as a result of the pressure on dairy 
farm incomes and the downtime at the  
UK manufacturing facility resulting from  
the floods. 
MARKET CONDITIONS
Farmer confidence remained low during 
the year with the farmgate milk price only 
stabilising towards the end of the financial 
year, causing significant pressure on farm 
incomes which is set to continue through 
the current financial year. The uncertainty 
following the outcome from the EU 
referendum, particularly relating to the future 
of the single farm payment and support for UK 
farmers in general, is likely to result in volatile 
market conditions for the foreseeable future. 
However, in the short-term UK livestock and 
dairy prices have responded positively due  
to the devaluation of Sterling.
The division is well placed both operationally 
and geographically to adapt to future variable 
market conditions whilst continuing to 
support our farming customers. 11
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
This year the Engineering division has 
made significant progress in its objective to 
reposition its focus on nuclear and adjacent 
markets, such as defence. This is evidenced 
by a number of significant contract wins and 
strengthening of the management teams in 
the UK, along with increased coordination 
and integration of activities within the 
division. Unfortunately, the benefits from 
these actions have been offset in the short 
term by customer delays in the awarding of 
some nuclear contracts and the continued 
depressed oil and gas market. Nevertheless, 
the division’s performance for the full year 
was satisfactory in the context of challenging 
market conditions. The overall split of nuclear 
and non-nuclear work of the division in 2016 
was 69% nuclear (2015: 62% nuclear).
UK MANUFACTURING BUSINESS
Revenues have declined in the year following 
the completion of the large BP contract in 
2015 and as a result of contract delays, 
however, the outlook looks more promising  
in the nuclear market following a number  
of sizeable contact wins.
The UK manufacturing business was 
awarded The Sellafield Vessels and Tanks 
Category Management Framework contract. 
This contract, with a value of £48m at the 
time of the tender, was won through an open 
European Tendering process. The Framework 
contract secures a position of exclusivity to 
design and manufacture Sellafield’s highest 
complexity vessels for the next 10 years. This 
is a significant milestone for the Engineering 
division, being the largest ever contract 
secured by the business, and underpins the 
growth and development of our Engineering 
division over the medium term. 
During 2015 the business created a new 
design department, to further enhance services 
available to customers for the design of a wide 
range of mission critical equipment, including 
steel fabrications and pressure vessels. The 
design business is integrated with the business’ 
production capability to maximise innovation 
and improve efficiency. During the year it 
concluded an important design and build 
project for a skip conveyor system for the First 
Generation Magnox Storage Pond (FGMSP) 
project in Sellafield. This system is the first of 
its kind, and is fundamental to assisting in the 
retrieval and removal of radioactive waste from 
one of the storage ponds in Sellafield. 
Despite the partial recovery of the oil price 
towards the end of the 2016 financial year, 
the oil and gas market remains depressed, 
particularly in the exploration and production 
sector, which has consequently had an adverse 
impact on the business during the year. The 
focus on the nuclear industry has continued 
although, as previously reported, the transition 
by part of the manufacturing business away 
from oil and gas to nuclear has been slower  
than initially anticipated due to contract delays. 
The UK nuclear industry has benefited 
from the Government’s commitment to both 
the on-going decommissioning process 
and nuclear new build, and as a result the 
division is seeing an increase in the number 
of tenders and subsequent contract wins. 
The Government and international investor 
commitment to the Hinkley C power station 
is a significant vote of confidence in new 
nuclear in the UK and will have boosted the 
potential for the other developments, not 
least with the Horizon project in North Wales 
and the NuGEN project in Cumbria.
Operating profit for the year decreased by  
4.9% to £2.5m (2015: £2.6m) on revenue  
down by 10.2% to £30.1m (2015: £33.5m).
ENGINEERING
4.9% DOWN FROM 2015 
£2.5m
 OPERATING PROFIT
£2.5m
£2.6m 2015
2016 12
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
REMOTE HANDLING BUSINESS
During the year the remote handling 
business performed in line with the Board’s 
expectations with several major projects 
completed. The Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 project, 
for the inspection of oil and gas tanks in 
Norway, completed successfully in December 
2015. This project developed a robotic system 
for vessel inspection and cleaning, the first in 
the world to be certified for use in the most 
highly explosive of environments. Statoil, 
a partner in the project, has subsequently 
invested further in the business to develop 
a lighter weight version of the Demo 2000 
Telbot
®
 for use on off-shore platforms, where 
there are strict machinery weight restrictions. 
The business has completed two major 
contracts for Sellafield, one for the Silo 
Direct Encapsulation (SDP) project and the 
other for the Box Encapsulation Plant (BEP) 
project. In early 2015, Sellafield awarded 
a contract for the design and production of 
a robot to assist in the removal of high-
level toxic nuclear waste on the site in the 
SDP project. This robot, Sally Telbot
®
, was 
successfully tested in Germany for 1200hrs 
without failure and proved to perform the 
tasks 40% faster than the previously tested 
hydraulic arms. Following its success, an 
order was placed for a second Sally Telbot
®
, 
which has been manufactured during 
the year with successful factory testing 
completed before the year-end and delivery 
to Sellafield in November 2016.
Completion of the contract for two A1000 
power manipulators for the nuclear facility  
at Dounreay in Scotland was completed in  
the year. An A1000 has also been delivered 
to Mitsui in Japan for trial work in a future 
decommissioning project to be undertaken 
at the Fukushima nuclear facility, and the 
business was also awarded a contract for 
the design and manufacture of the highly 
specialised A1000 power manipulator to 
Sellafield for the BEP project. Production  
has almost completed and factory acceptance 
tests will commence in January 2017.
Following on from the development and 
extensive trials in Japan and Germany of 
Robbie, the V1000 robot, a remote controlled 
handling vehicle, the business has received 
its first order for delivery in 2017. Robbie 
will be used in the vitrification plant on the 
WAK GmbH Karlsruhe site in Germany. The 
plant contains high level toxic waste and dust 
particles making it too hazardous for human 
presence. Robbie will assist the A1000 
power manipulators already in the plant  
to continue with their decommissioning. 
A major contract, of c£1.8m in value, with 
Cavendish Nuclear for the supply of Master 
Slave Manipulators into Sellafield was 
completed successfully during the year. 
Further progress was made in the USA nuclear 
market, with two small orders for Master 
Slave Manipulators received in the year, one 
for the USA National Laboratory at Idaho and 
the other for the USA National Laboratory 
at Oakridge, both due in November 2016. 
Although small, these orders demonstrate 
further progress being made by the business 
in the penetration of the US market. 
The business continues to face the ongoing 
macroeconomic pressures resulting from the 
political issues in Russia and the delay in 
funding in Japan in the short term. This  
is offset by the on-going resurgence in the 
UK nuclear market. 
On 24 October 2016, the German remote 
handling business acquired one of its 
primary suppliers, STABER GmbH, formerly 
called Städele GmbH, including all of its 
associated intellectual property for a total 
cash consideration of @7.85m. STABER 
and Wälischmiller, a subsidiary of Carr’s 
Engineering Ltd, have been working together 
closely for over 50 years and most recently 
STABER has been a key supplier of parts for 
the remote handling business. During 2014 
and 2015 STABER was intrinsic in assisting 
Wälischmiller in the development of the 
Demo 2000 Telbot
®
, a robotic system for 
vessel inspection and cleaning in the oil and 
gas market, and the first in the world to be 
certified for use in the most highly explosive 
of environments. STABER has designed and 
developed specialised intellectual property 
(“IP”) which will be strategically beneficial to 
Wälischmiller in both the near and long term. 
This IP will accelerate the ongoing strategic 
development work on the Telbot
®
 and the 
Demo 2000 Telbot
®
 by Wälischmiller.
The Engineering division is a well-established 
supplier of high integrity equipment to the 
nuclear industry. With agreements in place  
with leading UK and Global nuclear 
companies, it is well positioned to secure 
high value, long term contracts to build on 
its existing decommissioning portfolio and 
potential defence opportunities through the  
UK Successor and Defence programmes.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 13
CARR’S GROUP PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT
The floods in December 2015 in Cumbria 
directly affected one of the Food division’s 
major customers, which had a consequential 
impact on sales volumes in the year. Due to 
appropriate and comprehensive insurance 
cover, the floods had no financial impact  
on the business.
Underlying sales volumes grew 3.54%, in 
spite of the changes in the consumer market, 
notably the decline in consumption of the 
traditional sliced loaf and the concurrent 
increase in the consumption of bake-off 
products. The division’s performance has 
also been supported by the investment made 
by the Group in the mill at Kirkcaldy and 
excellent long term relationships  
with customers. 
The 2015 UK wheat harvest was in excess 
of 16 million tonnes, although the quality 
was variable. The wheat price volatility in 
the market has continued, with significant 
price falls experienced in early 2016. Carr’s 
approach to risk management, which seeks 
to match sales contracts with raw materials 
commitments, served to minimise the impact 
of that volatility. 
The flour market continues to decline, is over 
supplied and is operating in a challenging 
consumer environment with limited growth 
opportunities for the Group. This, coupled 
with the need for significant future capital 
investment, resulted in the Group being 
exposed to an increased risk profile. 
At the year-end we announced the disposal of 
the Food division to Whitworths Holdings Ltd. 
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
16 November 2016
Profit for the year from discontinued  
operations was £2.8m (2015: £3.0m).
FOOD
6.5% DOWN FROM 2015 
£2.8m
PROFIT FROM  
DISCONTINUED  
OPERATIONS
£2.8m
£3.0m 2015
2016
