 Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Chief Executive’s Review 
“The business has come a long way in the 
last two years and has made enormous 
progress under very difficult conditions.”
In January 2008 we set about a turnaround plan for the business 
with the aim of restoring the Group to profitability on a sustainable 
basis. That plan had three phases. The first phase was focused 
on cutting the operating costs of the business and we exceeded 
our targets in this respect with a reduction in our cost base of 
£6.6m. We also managed our working capital more efficiently 
which allowed us to reduce our bank facility from £45m to £35m 
at that time.
By September 2009 the first phase of the turnaround was 
completed and we embarked upon phase two. This required 
the fundamental restructuring of the business to remove two of 
the three main legacy issues in the business: the loss-making 
Boardwear division and a tail of over-rented sites. The Company 
Voluntary Arrangements (‘CVAs’) were finalised in December 
2009 which, together with the Sandcity Limited Boardwear 
subsidiary being placed into administration in September 2009, 
completed phase two of the turnaround plan. These actions, 
together with the agreement in November 2009 from Bank of 
Scotland plc to extend our debt facility to two years and at an 
increased level of up to £42.5m, have placed the Group in a 
strong position to accelerate the third and final phase of our 
turnaround plan.
The third phase is concerned with investing in a business which is 
now properly focused on the Outdoor market. This will enable us 
to address the final legacy issue within the Group — the historic 
under-investment in our store estate. More than a quarter of our 
stores have had no investment for over ten years and many are 
in a poor condition. Over the last two years we have tested and 
refined new store formats and we are now confident that we 
have a proven template for cost-effectively upgrading our stores. 
In addition, the CVAs have given us an opportunity to re-enter 
towns or cities where we have traded successfully for many years 
but where we were unable to make a profitable return due to the 
over-renting of the sites. We have identified over 80 opportunities 
for new locations for Blacks and Millets stores and we are aiming 
to open in 15 of these over the coming 12 months, subject to a 
successful fundraising in the next few weeks. We have already 
opened four new stores since the end of the financial year (in 
Chester, York, Stratford-upon-Avon and Cheltenham) and trading 
results from these stores to date have been encouraging. The Group historically has had a relatively small range of products aimed specifically towards 
children. To address this, the successful Peter Storm range within our Millets stores has been 
expanded to include a range of “Adventurers by Peter Storm” products which provide clothing 
and footwear which are designed to be appealing to both children and, through the competitive 
pricing and high product quality, to parents. This brand will be developed with a further 
expansion of the product ranges in future seasons. 
 
The Adventurers range is sold exclusively through our Millets stores and www.millets.co.uk and 
exemplifies the high value, family offering that is at the core of Millets’ value proposition.
‘Adventurers’ by Peter Storm
 
Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
08 | 09 Blacks Leisure Group plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2010
www.blacks.co.uk 
www.millets.co.uk
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
Chief Executive’s Review continued
“We have tested and refined new store formats and we are 
now confident that we have a proven template for cost-
effectively upgrading our stores.”
The final aspect of our third phase is to invest in the people who 
will make our business profitable. We have embarked on the 
largest skills training programme in the Group’s history with a 
dedicated team of our own experts regularly visiting our stores to 
train and assess our colleagues at all levels. As a business which 
sells a wide range of expert and often highly technical products, 
it is essential that we remain at the forefront in terms of our 
colleague knowledge, expertise and customer service skills.
This business has come a long way in the last two years and  
has made enormous progress under very difficult conditions.  
We are confident that we can now achieve the final phase of  
our plan and return Blacks Leisure Group to the position it 
deserves as a high quality and successful specialist retailer. 
Neil Gillis
Chief Executive
30 April 2010
hh Reduced operating costs within the business, both 
centrally and at store level;
hh Improved management of working capital;
hh Enhanced use of core retail skills within 
stores, particularly through improved window 
merchandising; and
hh Completed review and development of store 
formats for future new store roll-outs.
Phase 2 Phase 1
hh Placed Sandcity Limited, a retail and wholesale 
operation within the Boardwear segment, into 
administration;
hh Completed a fundamental restructuring of the 
business through CVAs, which removed a tail 
of loss-making sites, many of which were in the 
Boardwear segment;
hh Agreed a new two year banking facility; and
hh Achieved a further reduction in central operating 
costs.
Turnaround Plan Stock Exchange Code: BSLA
Our Business
Our Governance
Our Financials
17733	 08/06/2010	 Proof	5
10 | 11
Phase 3
hh Cost-effectively refurbishing the store estate, which 
has suffered from past under-investment, based on 
proven store formats;
hh Selective investment in new stores, particularly in 
re-entering key towns or cities that were exited 
under the CVAs;
hh Comprehensive skills training programme within 
stores;
hh Optimising the use of the Blacks and Millets fascias 
through differentiating market offerings; and
hh Further development of e-commerce operations.
The Company has today announced a plan to pursue 
a new equity raising which, if successful, will provide 
funds with which to accelerate the investment plans as 
part of Phase 3 of the Turnaround Plan, in particular:
 
hh The refurbishment of up to 130 of our existing stores 
by February 2012; and
hh The opening of up to 35 new Blacks or Millets stores 
by February 2012, including 15 before the end of 
February 2011.
Fundraising
