 00 00 www.blacks.co.uk www.millets.co.uk 04
Blacks Leisure Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
Chairman’s Statement
David Bernstein
“Trading conditions continued to be very 
challenging throughout the period”
David Bernstein, Chairman
Overview
This has been another difficult year for both the Group and the UK 
retail sector generally, with consumer confidence remaining fragile. 
Despite this, action taken by the Group has resulted in the delivery 
of a much reduced loss for the year.
Company Voluntary Arrangements (‘CVAs’) for the Company and 
its main trading subsidiary, The Outdoor Group Limited, were 
implemented in December 2009. This enabled the Group to 
compromise 101 leases, including 88 trading stores which had 
not been trading profitably for some time, and accordingly we 
entered the financial year under review with a smaller but higher 
quality store estate. This, alongside the placing of its Boardwear 
subsidiary, Sandcity Limited (‘Sandcity’), into administration in 
September 2009, enabled the Group to rationalise its business 
and removed a tail of poorly performing stores which had, for 
some years, depressed overall results.
A subsequent issue of new Ordinary Shares in May 2010, through 
a Placing and Open Offer and Firm Placing, enabled the Group to 
cancel its most expensive tranche of debt and to invest significant 
capital, for the first time in a number of years, in the store estate. 
During the financial year the Group opened 13 new or rebranded 
stores, for which trading to date has been very encouraging.
The above restructuring actions reduced significantly the Group’s 
presence in the Boardwear segment which has been in decline for 
several years. As at the end of the financial year, the Group traded 
from only 9 such stores, under the Freespirit brand. Since the end 
of the year, the Group has begun to implement a plan to exit fully 
from this segment and focus on the core Outdoor market. It is 
intended that all remaining Freespirit stores will either be converted 
to the Blacks or Millets fascias or will otherwise be closed by the 
half year end.
Group results and key performance indicators
Total revenue from continuing activities of £201.9m represented 
a decrease of 16.0% from the £240.5m recorded in the prior 
year. Whilst the number of trading stores open as at the end of 
the financial year was only slightly lower, with 308 stores at 26 
February 2011 (2010: 313), the sales in the previous year 
included 88 stores which closed in October and November 2009 
in relation to the CVAs. After excluding the results of these 88 
stores from the comparative figures, the reduction in revenue is 
£8.8m or 4.2%.
Despite the net reduction in store numbers, which reflected the 
closing of a number of mainly small and weakly performing sites 
which were coming to the end of their lease term, the Group 
opened 13 new or rebranded stores during the year. These stores 
are already making a positive overall contribution to the Group 
and are generally trading ahead of expectations and together now 
account for around 10% of total Group revenues. These stores 
are principally larger units, with the trading space to offer our 
ranges more effectively, and which are benefitting from the capital 
investment that has been made in ensuring these stores are fitted 
out to a standard which is appropriate for our brand propositions.
In order to understand the underlying trend in trading, the Group 
measures like-for-like sales which eliminates the effects of store 
openings, refurbishments or closings. Like-for-like sales declined 
during the year by 6.1% as commented on below.
Trading conditions continued to be very challenging throughout 
the period, particularly in the first half during which adverse 
economic conditions contributed to a decline in the key Outdoor 
segment by 6.0%. Whilst the retail environment generally 
continued to be tough throughout the second half, the business 
took advantage of the particularly cold and snowy weather 
conditions over the key Christmas trading period, during which 
Outdoor like-for-like sales grew by some 10.2% despite being 
measured against what was also a strong comparative period. 
  00 00 05
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
Key Performance Indicators
Gross margin %
Performance:
48.7% 2011
2010 51.6%
Like-for-like sales %
Performance:
-6.1% 2011
2010 +5.4% 00 00 www.blacks.co.uk www.millets.co.uk 06
Blacks Leisure Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
Chairman’s Statement 
continued
Despite being impacted by weak consumer spending in the early 
part of 2011 particularly, in common with other retailers, the strong 
Winter trading performance meant that the second half recovered 
some of the first half decline and the outturn for the Outdoor 
segment for the full year was a reduction of 4.9%. Boardwear, 
which is planned for closure in the coming months, declined by 
28.5% on a like-for-like basis across the period.
     
The internet channel, within Outdoor, continued to grow strongly 
at 44.2%. We have recently launched a new and improved web 
platform for both www.blacks.co.uk and www.millets.co.uk, along 
with an expanded product range. Internet sales accounted for 
4.8% (2010: 2.7%) of total Group sales during the year and we are 
targeting further growth in this channel during the coming year.
 
A gross margin of 48.7%, or 49.6% excluding the effect of 
exceptional items, was achieved in the year (2010: 51.6%). Whilst 
impacted by the competitive and economic climate, including the 
strengthening of the US dollar, much of the loss in margin occurred 
as a result of a discounting of stocks in the first half year. Many 
stock orders for Spring/Summer 2010 had been placed prior to the 
CVAs and order volumes were determined on the basis of a larger 
store portfolio. This issue was compounded by the poor sales in the 
first half and, accordingly, the business had to act decisively to clear 
excess stocks and minimise the stock overhang, at the detriment of 
margin, as we moved into the Autumn.
Store-related overheads have been reduced alongside the 
reduction in stores. Efficiency and other cost savings have also 
been driven within head office and the logistics function. These 
factors have contributed to the Group recording a significant 
reduction in loss before tax and exceptional items from £14.4m  
to £6.6m.
Exceptional items during the year, which are discussed in more 
detail in the Financial Review and within note 8, resulted in 
a net credit of £1.3m (2010: net charge £29.2m). This credit 
included the effect of a £5.4m release from the provision for 
CVA related rates obligations owing to new tenants being found 
for the associated properties, and therefore extinguishing the 
ongoing liabilities, more quickly than had been anticipated. Other 
exceptional charges, which largely offset this release, and a further 
credit of £0.5m for proceeds accrued from the administration of 
Sandcity Limited, related mainly to restructuring activity and in 
particular the planned exit from the Boardwear segment.
Dividends
The Board has decided not to declare a final dividend for the year, 
believing that the performance of the business does not warrant 
the resultant cash outlay. We plan to resume dividend payments, 
if considered appropriate, only when the business returns to a 
suitable level of profitability.
“I am delighted to announce that Julia 
Reynolds has accepted our offer to join 
Blacks Leisure as Chief Executive”
David Bernstein, Chairman 00 00 07
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
Store numbers
Board changes and appointment of Chief Executive 
It was with great sadness that the Board announced the death of 
Nick Samuel on 29 June 2010. Nick was a valued colleague who 
made a significant contribution since joining the business as Non-
Executive Director in August 2008.
T om Knight was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director on 1 August 2010. T om is a former Executive Director of 
the Company, having worked for the Group from 1987 to 2002 
before leaving to subsequently join JJB Sports plc where he held 
the position of Chief Executive from 2002 to 2007. The Board also 
announced the appointment of Mark Hammersley as Non-Executive 
Director on 20 September 2010. Mark has been Chief Executive of 
Zoggs International Limited since 2003 and brings with him a strong 
track record in managing major sports clothing brands.
   
On 10 February 2011 the Group announced that Neil Gillis 
had given notice of his intention to resign from his role as Chief 
Executive upon serving his six month notice period. I would like to 
thank Neil for his significant contribution to the business over the 
past three years and I wish him every success for the future. 
Following a thorough search for a suitable successor, I am 
delighted to announce that Julia Reynolds has accepted our offer 
to join Blacks Leisure as Chief Executive towards the end of the 
Summer. Julia is a very experienced buyer and retailer who will 
join us from Figleaves.com where, as CEO, she drove a period of 
significant growth and improvement in results. Prior to that, Julia 
was Category Director at Tesco plc where she was responsible for 
the introduction and subsequent success of the Florence & Fred 
clothing range.
Corporate activity
The Company announced on 19 October 2010 that it had been 
approached by several parties regarding a possible offer for the 
Company or an offer to acquire certain of the trading activities 
and related assets of the Group. A number of indicative proposals 
were received and reviewed however, as the Board announced on 
26 January 2011, none of these were considered to be sufficiently 
compelling at that time to be pursued further and all these 
discussions were therefore terminated.
Banking facilities
The Group has been working alongside its bankers, Bank of 
Scotland plc, to extend its banking facilities which were due to 
expire in December 2011. The Group today announces that it has 
been successful in agreeing new revolving credit facilities with its 
bankers which will now run until July 2012. The facilities will be 
automatically extended to November 2012 upon the new Chief 
Executive commencing employment with the Group by no later 
than 30 September 2011. The extended facilities comprise a core 
facility of up to £35.0m and a further new facility of £3.0m being 
available during certain seasonal peaks (subject to the satisfaction 
of certain conditions precedent).
Current trading and future outlook
During the new financial year so far, the Group has continued to 
trade in extremely tough economic conditions. As a result, and in 
common with the experiences of many other UK retailers, sales levels 
in the period since the end of the financial year have been below our 
expectations. Although margins have largely been preserved, there 
has been an adverse impact on trading since the year end.
The Group faces a challenging year ahead in this uncertain retail 
climate. Nevertheless, the Directors believe that the restructuring 
activity that has been undertaken over the past few years has 
given the Group a real opportunity to deliver a return to profitability 
over the short to medium term. With much of this restructuring 
activity now completed, the appointment of a new Chief Executive 
with a specialist retail background is a significant step towards 
completing this turnaround.
Finally, I would also like to recognise our hard-working and 
talented staff who, despite the uncertainties of the significant 
restructuring and operational changes that have taken place over 
the past years, remain committed to continuing and delivering the 
turnaround in the Group’s performance.
David Bernstein
Chairman
4 May 2011
    26 February 27 February 28 February
    2011 2010 2009
Millets   201 208  258
Blacks   98 92  115
Outdoor segment   299 300  373 
Freespirit   9  13 35 
O’Neill   — —  12 
Boardwear segment  9 13 47
Total   308 313 420
