 00 00 www.blacks.co.uk www.millets.co.uk 08
Blacks Leisure Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2011
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
Chief Executive’s Review
Neil Gillis 
This was the third year of the Blacks Leisure turnaround 
programme, which has been conducted against a backdrop of 
sharp consumer recession and intense competitive pressure.
Importantly, for the first time in many years, we were able to 
open new stores in the financial year under review and these 
have performed strongly. One of the principal issues the Group 
has faced, and one of the driving factors behind the historic 
underperformance, was the fact that the store estate had been 
significantly underinvested over a number of years and many 
of the stores were old sites which lacked the necessary space 
to retail our full range effectively. For the first two years of the 
turnaround, the Group had to withstand the rapid openings of 
brand new and larger stores by our competitors, often located 
close or even adjacent to our own underinvested sites, without 
being able to respond with capital investment of our own.
Following the CVAs and the subsequent equity fundraising 
we were able to invest in our store estate and we opened or 
converted 13 new stores during this period. These now account 
for around 10% of the turnover in a business with 308 stores. 
Being able to choose strong sites with the required amount 
of trading space, on competitive rents, has driven exceptional 
performances from these new stores. These new 
“Much of the significant corporate 
restructuring that the business required 
has now been completed”
Neil Gillis, Chief Executive 00 00 09
Our Business Our Governance Our Financials
20321.04   10/06/2011   Proof 5
New approaches 
to marketing
We have continued to make improvements to the way 
we present and market our fascias. This has included 
new point-of-sale devices and presentations within 
some of our stores as well as a number of successful 
direct marketing campaigns. We were proud to 
be awarded a Gold Award by the Direct Marketing 
Association during the year as an endorsement of the 
quality of our promotional leaflets.
stores have given us further confidence that the proposition is 
effective, that the formats work and that the business can take 
on any of its competitors when it is trading on equal terms. It 
has also highlighted the opportunity, should cash facilities allow, 
for the business in the future as many of the leases on the old, 
underinvested stores approach their expiry and we could therefore 
potentially replace these stores with larger, higher returning new 
stores. In the first couple of months of the new financial year we 
have continued with this strategy with the conversion of three of 
our remaining Freespirit stores in Plymouth, Exeter and Cardiff 
to the new Blacks format and these businesses have made an 
encouraging start.
Following the reduction of our overhead base, the planned full 
exit from the loss-making Boardwear business, the reduction in 
our debt requirement over the past three years, the CVAs and the 
equity fundraising, much of the significant corporate restructuring 
that the business required has now been completed as part of the 
turnaround plan. The next phase of the programme now needs to 
be focussed on further enhancing the retail proposition across our 
stores and driving improvement in margin and product 
performance. For this reason I believe it is right for me to hand 
over the management of the Group to an experienced retailer 
who has the background and skills to complete the final phase 
of the turnaround and to develop the long term prospects for the 
business.
After three intense years with Blacks Leisure, I am proud of what 
we have been able to achieve, in particular the fact that we have 
been able to preserve a business which provides the livelihoods of 
around 4,000 dedicated staff across the British Isles.
Neil Gillis
Chief Executive
4 May 2011
