 06
Cattles plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2006
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
NORMAN BROADHURST
Chairman
PERFORMANCE
It gives me great pleasure, in my ﬁrst year 
as Chairman, to report another strong
performance by the group in 2006. Proﬁt
before tax increased by 14.9% to £132.2
million and earnings per share increased 
by 14.0% to 28.01p. 
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending an increased
ﬁnal dividend of 11.85p per share, payable
on 15 May 2007, compared to 10.65p paid
last year. This, together with the interim
dividend of 5.65p per share, gives a total
dividend for the year of 17.50p, an increase
of 11.5% over the previous year. 
As an alternative to receiving the cash
dividend, shareholders in the United
Kingdom, excluding the Channel Islands,
will again be offered the opportunity to
have their dividends re-invested in the
company’s shares through participation 
in our Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
SHARE PLACING
The group’s strategy continues to be 
focused on controlled growth and careful
management of credit quality in the 
non-standard consumer ﬁnance market. 
The group’s signiﬁcant investment in
bespoke customer selection technology,
together with close customer relationship
management delivered through our national
network of local branches, has enabled
Cattles to deliver double digit proﬁt and
earnings per share growth over many years,
while at the same time maintaining stable
credit quality.
The Board has assessed carefully the group’s
future ﬁnancing requirements in light of
expected continuing strong growth over the
medium-term, and has concluded that the
company should seek to raise additional
equity capital ﬁnance through an underwritten
share placing of 32,978,986 ordinary shares
of the company. The net proceeds will be
used to ﬁnance future organic growth and to
reﬁnance debt portfolios purchased during
the second half of 2006.
The Board expects that the placing will be
earnings enhancing from the current ﬁnancial
year onwards. This statement should not 
be interpreted to mean that future earnings
per share will necessarily be higher than
historical earnings per share. Further details
of the placing, which will be undertaken 
by Citigroup Global Markets U.K. Equity
Limited and HSBC Bank plc, are set 
out in a separate announcement.
ACQUISITIONS
During the year, a number of acquisition
opportunities arose for the group,
particularly for our debt recovery 
division, The Lewis Group.
In July 2006, The Lewis Group purchased
an unsecured debt portfolio of £52.2 million
from a third party credit provider for 
£8.0 million and, in December 2006,
acquired and committed to acquire further
debt portfolios from a UK credit card
provider for a total investment over three
years of around £65 million. 
Following publication on 30 January 2007
of London Scottish Bank plc’s preliminary
results for the year ended 31 October 2006,
and the completion of due diligence, Cattles
announced on 22 February 2007 its
withdrawal from discussions concerning a
possible offer for that company. The Board
of Cattles concluded that it was not in the
best interests of its shareholders for it to
continue those discussions and related legal
and due diligence fees of £1.2 million have
been charged in the year.
REGULATION
This Annual Report and Financial
Statements includes an Operating and
Financial Review on pages 9 to 34 which
meets current best practice guidelines of the
Accounting Standards Board’s ‘Reporting
Standard: Operating and Financial Review’. 
The sale and distribution of the group’s
mortgages and insurance products are
regulated by the Financial Services Authority
(FSA). All relevant customer facing
employees of the group’s consumer credit
division, Welcome Financial Services,
undertake prescribed training and
accreditation to ensure that the required
standards of customer care and compliance
are maintained. Cattles fully embraces the
FSA ’s principles of Treating Customers Fairly.
The Competition Commission Final
Remedies paper on its inquiry into the 
home collected credit market was issued in
November 2006. The Commission regards
data sharing and greater comparability and
transparency of the terms of trade of home
collected credit providers to be important 
in providing a more competitive market. 
We support the Commission’s ﬁndings and
its proposed remedies. Implementation of
these will not have a material impact on 
the group’s results. Our continued success depends on the
commitment and energy of our people.
We continue to invest in the training 
and development of our staff.
The Office of Fair Trading has completed 
its Market Study into the sale of Payment
Protection Insurance (PPI) and referred it 
to the Competition Commission in February
2007. The resulting inquiry is required to
report within a two-year statutory period.
The sale of PPI has been regulated by the
FSA since 14 January 2005, and continues
to contribute around 11% of the group’s
annual revenues. 
The Consumer Credit Amendment Bill,
amending the 1974 Consumer Credit Act,
received ﬁnal enactment in April 2006. 
We continue to be engaged with government
and legislators in the debate on better and
less regulation. As a responsible lender,
Cattles fully supports the positive actions
being taken to strengthen existing 
legislation and regulation in the 
consumer ﬁnance market.
PEOPLE
The continued success of the group depends
very much on the commitment and energy
of our people. We continue to invest in the
training and personal development of our
staff so as to build on the group’s strong
performance culture. I am particularly
pleased that our employees’ satisfaction 
and pride in working for the group
continues to rise. On behalf of the Board, 
I thank them all for their support and
important contribution in delivering 
another successful year.
OUTLOOK
I am very pleased with the group’s
performance in 2006. The Board remains
focused on our strategy of delivering
controlled growth while maintaining stable
credit quality in the non-standard consumer
ﬁnance market. I ﬁrmly believe the group
continues to have signiﬁcant opportunities
in its chosen markets. The group has made a
good start to the year and we look forward
to making further progress in 2007.
NORMAN BROADHURST
Chairman
15 March 2007
We have a strong compliance
culture and fully embrace the 
FSA’s principles of ‘Treating
Customers Fairly’
07
Cattles plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2006 GROUP KEY PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2005: £115.1m
£132.2m
LOAN LOSS RATIO
2005: 9.2%
7.4%
DIRECT REPAYMENT CUSTOMERS
2005: 358,000
409,000
CONSUMER CREDIT RETURN ON RECEIVABLES
2005: 7.1%
7.2 %
COST INCOME RATIO
2005: 30.1%
29.7%
FUNDING HEADROOM
2005: £274m
£336m
08
Cattles plc
Annual Report and 
Financial Statements 2006
