 I am delighted to be making my first statement as 
Chief Executive since my appointment in August last year.
My role as a Non-executive Director in the period prior to
that gave me an invaluable insight into the Group, but it
is only when working closely on a daily basis with our
people that I have fully appreciated their dedication,
flexibility and passion to deliver our client proposition. 
Trading
2006 has seen a step change in our business as the early
stages of our strategic plans and objectives have been
delivered. In a year that has seen continuation of the 
soft market conditions of the previous year, each of our
chosen business areas has contributed another strong
performance.
The Group showed an 89% rise in profit before tax,
goodwill amortisation and share option charges and a 66%
rise in adjusted diluted earnings per share. Also pleasing
was the underlying organic growth in turnover which was
in excess of 15%. This performance once again underlines
the Group’s objective of growth, both organically and by
acquisitions, and is a credit to all of our staff.
The acquisitions described below have expanded the
Insurance Broking, Healthcare and Premium Finance
operations in particular. The Group’s Financial Services
division, CBG Financial Services (formerly CBG Carpenter
Rees Jackson), has performed very well since its acquisition
in July 2004 and is currently operating at a level of activity
around 70% higher than prior to acquisition. The final
earnout payment was paid in full to the vendors of 
CBG Financial Services Limited (formerly Carpenter Rees
Jackson Limited) on 16 August 2006. 
It is particularly pleasing that as an organisation we have
been able to achieve impressive organic growth, in what
continues to be demanding market conditions, as well as
execute the purchase and integration of three acquisitions
during the period. Our headcount has increased by over
130%, with our staff remaining our greatest asset who are
to be congratulated on their ability to embrace change as
integration has occurred.
Acquisitions
On 22 February 2006, the Company acquired Swinburne
James Limited, a provider of general insurance broking
services, and Swinburne James FS Limited, a provider of
financial services, through the acquisition of Everfirst
Services Limited, the holding company. Swinburne James
was based in Manchester, Liverpool and Burnley with 
a wide spread of clients throughout the North West. 
The total maximum consideration payable to the vendor
was £1,192,000. 
On 1 March 2006, the Company completed the acquisition
of Spencer, Lavery Associates Limited (“SLA”), a specialist
broker of healthcare insurance and also a provider of
general insurance broking services and financial services.
The total maximum consideration payable to the vendors
was £620,000 plus the value of net assets at completion 
of £83,000. The acquisition of SLA provided a critical mass
for our healthcare operation, CBG Healthcare.
The integration of these two acquisitions into our Barton
Hall offices in Manchester was achieved within days of
their completion and we quickly obtained benefits from
the enlarged Group and the additional services provided 
to our clients. 
On 9 July 2006, the Company acquired E T Knagg & Co.
Limited, a provider of general insurance broking services
based in Poulton-le-Fylde and with an office in Blackpool,
servicing a wide spread of clients on the Fylde coast and
throughout the North West. E T Knagg continues to
4
CBG Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review
“
We continue to seek growth through
considered acquisition, and the Group is
well equipped to create value from our
existing operations. 
”
70504 pre  17/3/07  06:49  Page 4 operate from its existing premises, further enhancing both
our geographical and client profiles in line with our plans
and expectations, but has otherwise been fully integrated
into CBG. David Mackie, one of the vendors and Managing
Director of E T Knagg, joined the Board of CBG Insurance
Brokers on completion. The total maximum consideration
payable to the vendors was £1,471,000. 
Across the Group, Insurance Broking, Financial Services,
Healthcare and Premium Finance are all benefiting from
the rapid integration and cross-selling activities emanating
from these acquisitions, whilst our Finance team has
quickly responded ensuring efficiencies are maximised 
and reporting systems for the Group are maintained to 
a high standard. 
Our acquisition appetite remains unaltered and remains
key to our growth strategy as a consolidator in the
industry. We are highly selective in the opportunities
available to us, as key to our decision process is the
strategic fit of the personnel into our operations. To
facilitate this objective the Group now has a dedicated
team to carry forward our acquisition programme, and
more importantly deliver the successful integration of
businesses into our Group.
Operations 
The acquisitions have been very important for the Group
for they have not only added critical mass to established
areas of the operation, but also enabled us to move
forward in the less mature area of healthcare. 
Our stated intent of producing a truly broad based 
client proposition is now in place, enabling focus and
specialisation in each trading sector with robust and
effective management to develop the synergies and sales
opportunities across the Group.
There are two core operating divisions, as follows: 
› CBG Insurance Brokers
This business is a provider of general insurance broking
services, augmented by our development of a more
broadly based client advisory proposition. The integration
of business risk management with the design and
implementation of insurance programmes allows 
CBG Insurance Brokers to offer a far more bespoke 
solution to its corporate clients.
The commercial general insurance continues to operate 
in a soft market, nonetheless the independent broker 
still represents the principal distribution channel into the
small to medium sized business market (SME’s). Insurers,
banks and building societies are looking to make 
inroads however and are likely to succeed at the lower, 
transactional end of this market. CBG’s strategy is focused
on increased mid-market business and developing efficient
processes to handle, at least cost, this transactional buyer
where technology will be a leading edge tool. CBG will
remain mindful of its advisory role, continuing to use the
service they provide for the client as the differentiator
from the direct channel.
CBG Insurance Brokers will continue to develop its position
as insurance advisors to the larger corporate businesses,
where our broad in-house resources bring proven benefits
and solutions to what can often be very complex requirements. 
Our Broking arm will continue to leverage its general
proposition by providing bespoke asset protection to the
high net worth individuals within its corporate clients and
the clients of the other CBG trading divisions.
We have dedicated resources in place to ensure we have
the right insurer and technology partners in place to
ensure our client proposition is first class, and is consistent
within our business. The 3 year deal with Allianz Cornhill,
as referred to in the Chairman’s Statement, is illustrative 
of our desire to form mutually beneficial long term
relationships with our chosen partners.  
› CBG Financial Services
CBG Financial Services offers a distinct service to its
corporate clients in areas such as key person, pension
consultancy and employee benefits with separate 
services to its private clients through effective wealth
management strategies. 
This year will see the development and delivery of 
an innovative flexible benefits proposition, using a 
market leading, comprehensive web-based benefits
communication solution that will enable employees 
to manage their own benefits within parameters defined 
by their employer. “ A” day, 6 April 2006, provided the
opportunity to further develop the SSAS and SIPP
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
06 05 04
534
640
1,209
Adjusted Profit before Tax (£000)
70504 pre  19/3/07  15:56  Page 5 propositions and this will continue to develop as the
legislation starts to settle down.
IT developments are in hand which will deliver
opportunities to further enhance our investment advice 
to clients as well as taking the lead in driving through the
implementation of sophisticated work flow management
leading to a near paperless office environment.
The acquisition of Spencer, Lavery & Associates Limited on
1 March 2006 led to the development of a distinct
Healthcare offering from CBG. Utilising current knowledge
and experience, different healthcare options specifically
tailored to the client are proposed.
The UK healthcare market is buoyant. Fuelled by factors
such as an increasingly health conscious population, an
ailing National Health Service and an absence culture in
the workplace, more and more employers are looking to
the healthcare market to deliver ways of safeguarding
their business and driving down costs. Standard Life
Healthcare research has revealed that one in two people
think that everyone should have made provision for all 
the Healthcare they need by the age of 30. New innovative
products are being developed by private medical insurers,
which are often a long way away from the traditional
model of healthcare and CBG is determined to be at the
vanguard of these developments by offering an integrated
healthcare programme for its client base delivering
positive and cost effective benefits across their business.
›  Supporting and additional activities:
We are also able to provide premium finance facilities 
as well as having a joint arrangement catering for the
requirements of sports professionals.
•  Exius 
The acquisition of Exius in March 2005 added a premium
finance capability to the Group’s offering. Exius provides
insurance premium finance to a significant percentage 
of CBG Insurance Brokers client base. It has provided our
clients with an in-house flexible facility that has proved 
to be popular as it enables them to spread premium
payments, typically over a 10-month cycle. This business
will continue to grow as our client base expands and our
turnover increases.
•  CBG Sports
On 13 July 2006, the Company announced the
establishment of CBG Sports Limited through a joint
arrangement with Kingsbridge Asset Management
Limited, a subsidiary of Formation Group plc. CBG Sports
will sell its general insurance services to the client base 
of Kingsbridge. Kingsbridge currently advises over 600 UK
based footballers, managers and coaching staff from 
the 92 professional football clubs. In addition to its
football clients, Kingsbridge also advises clients from 
other sports such as Rugby, Cricket, Golf and Racing.
Kingsbridge is an appointed representative of CBG 
Financial Services Limited.
We are excited by the early progress this business has
achieved, and the quality of client relationships already
established.
›  Sales and Marketing
The effective management of the prospect client database
is fundamental to the success of our organic growth
strategy and the integration of new opportunities brought
about by acquisition. The sales and marketing function
enables the maximisation of cross selling activity and
efficient use of client contact. It also allows CBG to 
achieve these key objectives and ensures that our client
proposition differentiates CBG from the competition.
Marketing literature and the integrated web site are
utilised by our sales and marketing team as we deliver
effective PR and brand awareness in the market place. 
6
CBG Group plc
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
“
We are well structured and 
equipped to deliver increased value for
shareholders commensurate with an
expanding and successful Group. 
”
70504 pre  19/3/07  15:56  Page 6 ›  Finance & IT
A strong finance and IT function of the highest calibre
ensures our Group is run efficiently and profitably, and has
been further strengthened during 2006 to keep pace with
the growth of our business. Robust controls remain in
place, with focused monthly management information
produced in a timely manner allowing effective
performance management. Our centralised function 
also allows CBG to evaluate and manage its corporate
governance obligations effectively.
›  Compliance
Compliance is a significant obligation across the core areas
of the Group through the single regulatory body of the
Financial Services Authority (FSA). Accordingly, we ensure
uniformity across all areas of the business by applying in
depth knowledge of the regulatory obligations. CBG’s
commitments as an accredited Investor in People and the
requirements of the FSA link well in terms of Training 
and Competency.
Employees
The continuing growth of our business relies upon
attracting and retaining motivated and highly skilled
employees, with individual and Group success requiring
individuals to continue to develop themselves,
complimented by our own commitment to training. Our
Investors in People Accreditation (IIP) means a lot to us,
and we were delighted to see the review of our business
during 2006 once again confirming our status. 
The success of the Group is ultimately dependent on the
skill and dedication of its staff and I would like to thank 
all of our employees for their contribution and efforts
during the year. Their continued hard work is very much
recognised and valued by the Board.
Whilst Executive and Senior personnel have to date
qualified for our Enterprise Management Incentive
Scheme, it is our intention to recognise the contribution 
all members of our Group make to our business by
allowing eligible employees to participate in 2007. 
Financing
The Group’s day to day financing requirements are
satisfied by a £2,000,000 Revolving Credit Facility provided
by the Bank of Scotland. In addition, the Group has a long
term loan, also provided by the Bank of Scotland, which
amounted to £1,500,000 at 31 December 2006. 
The loans provided by the Group’s Premium Financier,
Exius, to the clients of CBG Insurance Brokers, are financed
from the above bank facilities and at the year end totalled
£3,540,000. The Company has entered into the banking
facilities and in turn, when required, provides funding to 
Exius, which at 31 December 2006 amounted to
£1,659,000. Exius has security over the insurance
premiums financed by clients and is generally always 
in a position to recoup any defaulted loans through the
cancellation of the underlying insurance policies.
The Group’s core trading activities, Insurance Broking 
and Financial Services, are cash generative. This cash
generation together with existing borrowing facilities
provides the resources for the Company to pursue its
acquisition strategy. 
International Accounting Standards
As an AIM listed company we will adopt IAS for our
financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2007.
Current trading
The year has started well, and whilst insurance premiums
remain soft and are forecast to continue through the year,
trading is in line with our expectations.
With the Group’s extensive services portfolio, we are able
to provide a comprehensive offering to a broad range of
clients that will ensure growth organically and through
strategic acquisition. We are particularly well equipped
and focused to exploit cross-selling opportunities across
our trading areas. 
We have objectives for 2007 which will further enhance
the performance of our business, and with strong
foundations in place we are well structured and equipped
to deliver increased value for shareholders commensurate
with an expanding and successful Group.
Robin Slinger
Chief Executive
5 March 2007 
7
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
06 05 04
2,372
2,914
5,152
Turnover (£000)
70504 pre  17/3/07  06:49  Page 7
