 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 13
In 2016 CentralNic has
continued to deliver
strong growth as well
as strategic successes
across the business.
Ben Crawford Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s report
Performance overview
CentralNic continued on its trajectory of rapid growth during
2016: achieving revenues of £22.13m (an increase of 113%
over 2015), and Adjusted EBITDA of £5.48m (an increase of
68% over 2015). Our Retail and Enterprise Divisions experienced
growth in Adjusted EBITDA and proﬁt before taxation and there
was growth in our new Top-Level Domain revenues in the
Wholesale Division, as demand notably from the Chinese market
emerged as one of the industry’s principal growth drivers and
where CentralNic has taken a leading role.
Our strategic successes were equally signiﬁcant. In 2016
CentralNic increased the proportion of its revenues in the
recurring category to 81% of its total revenues, which includes
domain name renewals, new domain name registrations and
other recurring revenues stated before deferrals. CentralNic grew
its share of the new Top-Level Domain market from 23% to over
32%, increasing its share as the world’s premier wholesaler of
new Top-Level Domains by volume, in a year when the total
number of domains using new Top-Level Domains rose from
11.2 million to over 27.6 million.
At the same time, we successfully acquired and integrated the
domain retailer Instra Group, vastly increasing the inventory that
we sell and giving us exposure to attractive new markets.
And we continued to win new clients, launch new services
and close signiﬁcant sales.
At the end of the year the Group had cash balances of £9.90m
(2015: £19.06m, of which £14.83m was used for the Instra
acquisition in January 2016) and net cash balances of £7.28m
(2015: £19.06m).
Wholesale Division
With revenues of £3.18m (2015: £3.13 million) in its Wholesale
Division, CentralNic increased its lead as the world’s leading
wholesaler (or “Registry Backend Provider”) of domain names
using new gTLDs, from 23% market share at the end of 2015
to over 32% at the end of 2016. At the end of 2016 we had
approaching 9 million new TLD names registered (the number
two provider having around 6 million). CentralNic ended the year
with six new TLDs in the ranks of the Top Twenty-ﬁve sellers by
volume, from a total universe of around 1,200 launched in total.
CentralNic’s wholesale platform was able to supply domains to
more retailers actively selling them than any competitor: in the
table of TLDs with the highest number of retailers supporting
them, CentralNic-distributed TLDs hold nine out of the top ten
positions. (Source: industry statistics website ntldstats.com)
A number of factors are contributing to the success of CentralNic’s
Wholesale Division. These include our proven ability to win new
business, which continued in 2016 with the addition of .store, .art,
.fun and .fm to our customer base. We also soft-launched a
second “Registry Gateway” wholesale platform in 2016, which
provides the country code TLDs .am, .cx and .la to retailers globally.
CentralNic has notably supported new pricing and promotional
strategies that have disrupted the traditional domain name
wholesale model and captured most of the growth in the
domain industry. As well as supporting premium-priced
restricted TLDs like .reit for Real Estate Investment Trusts,
CentralNic has supported its clients in launching marketing
initiatives which have succeeded in achieving unprecedented
registration numbers. For example, the 2nd anniversary .xyz
marketing campaign in June 2016 boosted the number of .xyz
registrations with over 3.6 million new domains registered in that
month, increasing the total domains registered under .xyz to
over 6.1 million domain names.  14 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s report continued
CentralNic’s focus on emerging markets, especially China, 
which predates our IPO in 2013, has proven prescient, as 
China has been the single largest market for domain names
using new TLDs during 2015 and 2016, accounting for an
estimated 60% of new TLD registrations. This demand has also
propelled the country code .cn to become the world’s second
most registered domain extension after .com. We believe
CentralNic is the most successful non-Chinese distributor of
new TLDs in China, and it ﬁnished 2016 with four of its TLD
clients being granted accreditation from China’s Ministry for
Industry and Information Technology, ofﬁcially allowing those
TLDs to be used for websites hosted in China.
Retail Division
CentralNic’s Retail Division revenues in 2016 were £14.32m
(2015: £3.41m), reﬂecting the signiﬁcant increase in retailing
activities following the acquisition of Instra Group in January
2016. This acquisition increased the breadth of domains offered
by our retailers to include virtually all new gTLD extensions and
most country code extensions, with CentralNic now ranked
among the leading vendors of domains ranging from .law for
lawyers to .ae for the United Arab Emirates. The Instra
acquisition also gives CentralNic direct retail exposure to
desirable customer segments, notably including small
businesses in emerging markets and corporate customers
who maintain large portfolios of domain names as part of
their Intellectual Property and brand protection activities.
Finally Instra Group gives CentralNic its ﬁrst exposure to the
shared hosting market, which exhibits attractive margins.
In 2016 the Retail Division also launched new dedicated
websites for the Spanish language TLDs .hoteles, .vuelos
and .passagens as well as for .law (under contract from
Minds and Machines Plc).
Enterprise Division
CentralNic’s Enterprise Division continued to grow in 2016,
with revenues of £4.63m (2015: £3.86m).
Our premium domain name business performed well with
revenue of £3.74m achieved during the year (2015: £3.22m).
Notably, Accent Media, the Registry Operator for the .tickets
TLD (in which CentralNic holds a c.10% minority equity stake)
achieved one of the most successful Premium domain
name sales under a new TLD, receiving USD200,000 for
broadway.tickets in cash proceeds plus a 10% equity stake in
that site, which is intended to be used to aggregate a market
for theatre ticket sales on Broadway.
The recurring revenue components of our enterprise business
continue to grow. With our assistance a number of corporate
clients completed the ICANN processes required to obtain
their own Dot Brand Top-Level Domains, with Saudi Telecom
notably launching their new TLDs in 2016. Other corporate
and government clients continue to license CentralNic
software and use our support services to sell domains or
manage them in-house.
Outlook
I am delighted to report a number of major steps forward in 2017.
Increased renewal revenues are expected to emerge in 2017,
as the base of domains due to renew or expire has increased 
to 9.89m million domains in the Wholesale business (2015: 3.39
million) and 1.27 million in the Retail business (2015: 0.72 million).
Renewal rates we have experienced in 2016 for .xyz and our
other high volume TLDs are in line with our expectations.
New TLDs already launched on the CentralNic Wholesale
platform in 2017 include .fun, .realty, .observer, and .art. In
addition, there is a further pipeline of new TLDs in the process
of contracting to migrate to the CentralNic Wholesale platform. 
Additionally, the industry regulator ICANN continues its review of
the new TLD programme as a ﬁrst step towards opening future
rounds of applications – meaning potential future opportunities
for CentralNic.
In our Enterprise Division, we have identiﬁed online security and
brand protection services for corporate customers as an
important potential recurring revenue line of business. The
Company has appointed two experienced executives from this
segment – the former Commercial Operations Director and
former Marketing Director of Group NBT (Netnames) – to lead
revenue growth initiatives in this area.
Finally, following our successful acquisitions of Internet.bs and
Instra Group, CentralNic has identiﬁed a number of acquisition
targets with high levels of recurring earnings, which potentially
would combine earnings accretion with strategic beneﬁts as
we seek to expand the Group’s product and services suite,
geographic reach and customer base. CentralNic is planning
to further strengthen its leadership team in 2017 to accelerate
its acquisition processes moving forward, and is in active
discussions with the operator of the Slovakian ccTLD.
CentralNic continues to prove its ability to identify and exploit
growth opportunities in the domain name services industry, 
by winning clients, launching new products and services and
successfully acquiring and integrating other businesses. 
This dynamic and agile approach to a rapidly evolving market
has driven CentralNic’s 113% revenue growth in 2016, and 
we fully anticipate it will continue to serve the Group equally 
well in the future.
Ben Crawford, Chief Executive
9 May 2017
