 Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
10
During 2016 Centamin’s flagship 
Sukari Gold Mine continued to deliver 
substantial free cash flows, driven 
by a seventh successive year of 
production growth and by substantial 
reductions in operating costs. This 
performance has allowed Centamin 
to maintain its strategic focus on 
generating shareholder returns and 
value-accretive growth. 
A significant milestone was achieved 
during the year, as the capital 
investment in the Sukari operation by 
Centamin’s wholly owned subsidiary 
Pharaoh Gold Mines (“PGM”) was 
recovered from cash flows to the extent 
that profit share commenced with 
the Egyptian government during the 
third quarter.
Centamin ended the year with 
US$428 million in cash, bullion on 
hand, gold sales receivables and 
available-for-sale financial assets. 
The increase of US$197 million during 
the twelve-month period highlights 
the continued potential of the business 
to self-fund its next stages of growth 
from cash flows, whilst at the same time 
sustaining industry-leading dividend 
returns to shareholders.
The board of directors approved an 
interim 2016 payment of 2.00 US cents 
per share (versus a 2015 interim 
payment of 0.97 US cents per share). 
I am now pleased to announce that, 
with the strong performance of our 
flagship asset and solid cash flows 
carrying through into the second half, a 
final dividend for 2016 of 13.5 US cents 
per share has been proposed for 
approval at the forthcoming AGM on 
21 March 2017. This represents a full 
year pay-out of US$178 million, which 
is equivalent to approximately 70% 
of our net free cash flow in 2016 and 
follows the update to our dividend 
policy which was announced on 
9 January 2017, as follows:
The Company’s dividend policy sets 
a minimum payout level relative 
to cash flow while considering the 
financial condition of, and outlook 
for, the Company. When determining 
the amount to be paid the board will 
take into consideration the underlying 
profitability of the Company and 
significant known or expected funding 
commitments. Specifically, the board 
will aim to approve an annual dividend 
of at least 30% of the Company’s net 
cash flow after sustaining capital costs 
and following the payment of profit 
share due to the government of Egypt.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We remain focused on delivering peer-leading returns, 
through our value-driven growth strategy and a 
commitment to return excess cash to our shareholders.
Josef El‑Raghy  
Chairman Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
This dividend policy and the proposed 
full year payment for 2016 reflects our 
commitment to maintain strong fiscal 
discipline in managing our existing 
portfolio of assets, and to return 
to shareholders any cash reserves 
above those required to sustain our 
value driven growth strategy. We also 
remain committed to our policy of 
being 100% exposed to the gold price 
through an unhedged position and 
with a zero-debt balance sheet. 
During the year both the processing 
and underground mining operations at 
Sukari achieved levels of productivity 
that were above our base case 
annualised forecasts. As a result, 
full-year production of 551,036 ounces 
was above the revised guidance range 
of 520,000 to 540,000 ounces. 
The cash cost of production improved 
significantly to US$513 per ounce 
from US$713 per ounce in 2015, 
below our revised forecast of between 
US$530 and US$550 per ounce, due 
to the above-forecast gold production 
and an 8% reduction in mine 
production costs. The main positive 
impact on costs was from reductions 
in the price set by the government for 
fuel, which remained below originally 
forecast levels throughout the year in 
line with lower international oil prices. 
In addition, during the fourth quarter 
local costs in Egypt were reduced in 
US dollar terms following a devaluation 
of the Egyptian pound. In line with 
the reduction in operating costs, the 
AISC of US$694 per ounce marked an 
improvement on US$885 per ounce 
in 2015, and was below our revised 
forecast of between US$720 and 
US$750 per ounce. 
We expect the strong levels of 
productivity to be maintained in 2017, 
with forecast production of 540,000 
ounces at a cash cost of production 
of US$580 per ounce and an all-in 
sustaining cost of US$790 per ounce. 
Ongoing optimisation of the Sukari 
operation, in particular within the 
processing and underground mining 
functions, continues to offer scope 
for further production growth and 
reductions in cash costs and AISC.
2016 revenues of US$687.4 million 
were up 35% year-on-year, with an 8% 
increase in realised gold prices and a 
25% increase in gold sales. EBITDA 
increased by 145% to US$372.9 million, 
with an increase of gross operating 
margin resulting from the higher 
revenue and decreased mine 
production costs, discussed above. 
Ore stockpile and  
conveyor belt at Sukari Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
12
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT continued
Also in line with this increased margin, 
profit before tax of US$266.8 million 
was up 357% on 2015 and earnings 
per share (before profit share) for 
2016 was 23.05 US cents, compared 
with 4.51 US cents in 2015. Profit for 
the year following deduction of profit 
share was US$214.8 million, equating 
to 18.61 US cents basic earnings per 
share (compared with 4.51 US cents 
in 2015).
The underground operation at Sukari 
is an important value-driver for our 
business and we expect further growth 
of the reserve over the coming years 
as development and exploration 
continues. In August, we commenced 
development of a new exploration 
decline within the north-eastern 
Cleopatra zone of Sukari Hill. Whilst the 
infrastructure is being developed with 
the capacity to support mining rates of 
up to 1 million tonnes per annum from 
this area, ultimate production rates 
will depend on future results from the 
drilling programme and development.
Centamin remains in a strong position 
to continue investing in its long term 
growth throughout the cycle. Beyond 
Sukari we remain focused on our 
extensive licence holdings in West 
Africa. Momentum continues to build in 
Côte d’Ivoire, with further prospective 
licence holdings added to our portfolio 
and a new discovery at the Doropo 
project in the north-east of the country, 
where drilling to date has led to a 
maiden resource estimate of 0.3Moz 
indicated and 1.0Moz inferred. Further 
work in 2017 will aim to upgrade and 
expand on this positive start towards 
project development. In Burkina Faso, 
we continue to evaluate data from 
the extensive drilling programmes 
carried out to date and further work 
is being planned for the year ahead. 
I look forward to updating you further 
in due course with our progress 
towards unlocking the Company’s 
next stage of growth from these 
highly prospective regions.
Whilst disciplined and sustainable 
growth on our existing projects remains 
a key focus, we continue to evaluate 
opportunities to grow through the 
acquisition of projects that offer the 
potential for the Company to deliver 
on its strategic objectives.
Developments in the two litigation 
actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession 
Agreement, are described in further 
detail in note 21 to the financial 
statements. In respect of the latter, the 
Company continues to believe that 
it has a strong legal position and, in 
addition, that it will ultimately benefit 
from Law no. 32 of 2014, which came 
into force in April 2014 and which 
restricts the capacity for third parties to 
challenge any contractual agreement 
between the Egyptian government 
and an investor. This law, whilst in force 
and ratified by the new parliament, is 
currently under review by the Supreme 
Constitutional Court of Egypt. After 
a series of delays and adjournments, 
the Concession Agreement appeal has 
now been stayed until the Supreme 
Constitutional Court has ruled on the 
validity of Law no. 32. 
We continue to evaluate opportunities to grow  
through the acquisition of projects which offer  
the potential for the Company to deliver on its  
strategic objectives. Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
I would like to close by thanking all 
those at Sukari, in Alexandria, Burkina 
Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Jersey and Perth 
for their efforts in 2016 as Centamin 
continued on its path to becoming 
an established, cash-generative and 
growing gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned 
to deliver outstanding shareholder 
returns in the coming years. I look 
forward to updating you further 
over the course of 2017, and would 
welcome you to join us at our AGM, 
which this year will be held in Jersey 
on 21 March 2017.
This strategic review, progress on 
strategy, key performance indicators 
and business model together form 
the strategic report, which has been 
approved by the board of directors.
By order of the board for and on 
behalf of Centamin plc.
Josef El‑Raghy
Chairman
1 February 2017 
Samples from Sukari  
underground mine
