 10 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
In my ﬁrst full year as Chairman of the CentralNic Group I have
been pleased with the Group’s strategic development. We now
have a more diverse business active in the majority of the world’s
geographic markets, notably with expansion of our retail services
following the acquisition of the Instra Group. This is important to
the future of our business, not least in providing a strong and
comprehensive retail capability in close geographic proximity to
emerging domain name markets, notably in the Asia Paciﬁc region.
Instra Group offers one of the broadest range of domain names of
all domain name retailers as well as offering other related services,
such as shared hosting. The result being a retail business
exposed to the vast majority of the world’s geographic markets.
And as a long-established business, Instra also exhibits the
characteristics that make the domain name industry attractive to
investors, with relatively high levels of recurring revenues and
healthy cash generation.
The completion of the Instra Group acquisition was a positive start
to 2016, with the Group taking ownership on 14th January 2016.
This prompted structural changes in our senior management team,
combining our retail operations in one integrated division under the
leadership of Desleigh Jameson (who has continued as CEO of
the enlarged Retail business). This had the effect of consolidating
our retail operations under the management team in Australia and
New Zealand, as deﬁned in the Group’s integration plan. Progress
to date has focused on the operational integration, with synergy
beneﬁts including the consolidation of the Group’s support
functions into our service centre in New Zealand, consolidation of
third party supplies and addressing any duplicated costs.
Our Retail Division sustained growth levels in domain volumes
under management across all of our retail brands during this
integration phase. Instra Group increased it’s domain names under
management by 12% while Internet.BS, the Group’s other main
retail brand, by 24% – both largely due to growing demand for the
new Top-Level Domains. I believe it will now be important to drive
organic growth across all of our retail brands, assisted by tactical
marketing initiatives focused on the products, segments and
geographies of greatest interest to us. I look forward to seeing
the Group’s success as it strives for enhanced levels of retail
customer acquisition in 2017.
Chairman’s statement
2016 was a year of transformation for 
the CentralNic Group, delivering a step
change in the scale and scope of the
Group’s operations. This was particularly
noteworthy in our Retail Division, having
completed the acquisition of the Instra
Group in January 2016. There was also
strong volume growth in our Wholesale
Division as new Top-Level domain
awareness increased. In a domain name
sector that is consolidating, the increased
scale delivered in 2016 evidences the
Group’s growth ambitions, in pursuit of
enhanced returns for our shareholders.
Mike Turner Chairman CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016 11
Another signiﬁcant development during 2016 was the increased
adoption of domain names from the new Top Level Domain name
programme. The new TLD programme is regarded as the biggest
change in our industry for many years. It has brought hundreds of
additional domain name choices for consumers while enabling
greater choice for accredited retailers in terms of domain products
to supply and promote. This industry-wide development has
presented smaller players like CentralNic with the opportunity to
expand both Wholesale and Retail operations. In addition, it has
encouraged new industry participants and provided consumers
with lower-priced mass market domains. It is particularly pleasing
that, as a result of the ﬁrst application round of new TLD’s,
CentralNic is contracted as registry service provider to some of
the most successful new TLDs, including the leader by volume,
.xyz. The .xyz domain achieved 5.8 million new registrations during
2016. While many of these were sold at low promotional prices, the
domains present opportunities for higher priced future renewals.
Given the larger base of domains under management and the
enhanced increase in consumer awareness of new TLDs, we look
forward to tracking new registration and renewals performance
closely across all of our new TLD domains during 2017.
Across the CentralNic Wholesale portfolio of Top-Level Domains,
our technical systems have coped admirably with the additional
volumes registered in 2016 with nearly 10 million domains under
the management of our Wholesale Division by the end of the year.
This presents another step change in the scale of our operations
and positions our Wholesale Division as a strong competitor for
future growth opportunities. The Board is keen to achieve
additional scale to enjoy the beneﬁts of our automated wholesale
platform and relatively low marginal costs.
The Group’s strategy is focused on proﬁtable growth. The Board is
aligned behind the objectives of our acquisition programme
alongside performance improvements within each of our Divisions.
The Board is also committed to enhancing our recurring earnings
model, partly achieved through further development of our
Wholesale and Retail Divisions to increase their scale and improve
their relative market positions.
The Enterprise Division presents interesting opportunities to grow
revenues at relatively high margins by adopting a more service-led
approach. We believe this will deliver additional recurring value to
brand owners through domain name and online brand protection
services. The Group continues to reduce reliance on non-recurring
revenues, such as premium domain name sales. Our Enterprise
business will continue to engage with major brand owners directly
and via corporate channels as we seek to deploy our Enterprise
services. In seeking to unlock the potential of our corporate-facing
business, I am pleased we have recently been able to strengthen
our management team with senior commercial hires, bringing
considerable experience in this market segment.
Performance
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another very successful year,
with the Group’s ﬁnancial performance in line with expectations.
The Group’s revenue grew by 113% to £22.13m (2015: £10.39m).
This included almost a full year of revenues from Instra Group,
increased trading in valuable premium domain names on the
secondary market and organic revenue growth in Internet.BS.
Adjusted EBITDA also grew by 68% to £5.48m (2015: £3.25m)
again in line with the plan, reﬂecting the growth in total revenues
in part offset by the greater concentration of lower margin retail
revenues. Proﬁt before taxation was £1.16m (2015: £1.45m).
Recurring and subscription revenues across the Group, before
deferrals, increased to £17.23m (2015: £7.19m), which as a
proportion of total revenues increased to 81% (2015: 67%).
Net cashﬂow from operating activities was £3.32m (2015:
£5.69m). The beneﬁcial working capital movements in 2015 were
unusual and did not recur to the same extent in 2016 due to a
change in the mix of activity between prepaid and post-paid
registrar accounts related to the new TLD’s and also the timing of
payments to registry operators. Across 2015 and 2016, total net
cashﬂow from operating activities was broadly in line with
Adjusted EBITDA across the same two year period.
In terms of divisional performance, the Instra acquisition boosted
Retail business revenues signiﬁcantly to £14.32m (2015: £3.41m).
Instra Group contributed £10.28m of the growth, with organic
growth from Internet.BS generating a further £0.64m increase.
Instra’s revenue performance was consistent with 2015 while the
primary focus was on operational integration. Recent tactical
marketing initiatives commenced in the ﬁrst quarter of 2017,
and are showing early promise as we focus on driving organic
growth and optimising gross proﬁt performance.
The Wholesale Division delivered net revenue of £3.18m (2015:
£3.13m). There was a change in the mix during the year, masking
underlying growth in revenues from new Top-Level Domains of
£0.43m. The divisional result continues the trend of a lower
average sale price from the generic Top-Level Domains combined
with the expected decline in demand for the higher priced
Second-Level Domains. Scaling up activity levels in this division
remains an important priority given relatively low marginal costs,
and we are well-positioned to do so given our credentials and
the leading role we occupy in the new TLD programme.
The Group’s Enterprise Division made steady progress in 2016,
delivering revenue of £4.63m (2015: £3.86m). Revenues were
again weighted towards non-recurring premium domain name sales
and commissions of £3.74m (2015: £3.22m). Other revenues
included £0.56m from a full year of dnsXperts (2015: £0.21m) and
dot brand customer revenues of £0.17m (2015: £0.07m). 12 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2016
Dividend
It remains the intention of the Group to generate income returns for
investors in the future as part of a progressive and commercially
prudent dividend policy. However due to the continued expansion
opportunities presented by the sector the Directors do not propose
a ﬁnal dividend in 2016. Dividend policy is reviewed annually.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group is promising, as we strive to deliver
growth opportunities that enhance our proﬁtability and increase our
recurring revenue streams. Internet adoption continues to drive
sustained demand for domain names, notably from emerging
markets. The Group is well positioned to beneﬁt from demand in
these markets via its Retail and Wholesale businesses and will
seek to leverage its platforms across additional geographies and
language scripts as we move forward.
Awareness of the new Top-Level Domains is also increasing
across a number of geographic markets, in part due to the
marketing successes of our registry operator clients, notably in the
Far East. This has created a larger base of domain names on our
platform that are due to renew or expire in 2017. We look forward
to seeing the trends in renewal performance as they emerge in
the coming months.
Larger corporates present another segment of interest to us, with
unlocked potential in selling domain names and related domain
portfolio management and brand protection services. A combined
channel and direct sales approach will be adopted by our
commercial team. This will help build and convert opportunities
from our sales pipeline, as well as identifying additional value that
we can bring to corporate customers. Success will be important to
us as we seek to reduce reliance on non-recurring revenues.
The Group is also focused on opportunities to accelerate our
growth, via earnings enhancing acquisitions that deliver strategic
beneﬁts, such as market access or diversiﬁed products and
services. The Board recognises the importance of acquisitions to
accelerate our proﬁtable growth, while adding scale and capability
in a sector which is consolidating.
The amount of change in the business is signiﬁcant, with activity
levels high across each of our three divisions and with our mergers
and acquisitions programme continuing to bring beneﬁts and
present new and interesting opportunities to the Group. I would like
to take this opportunity to thank staff across the Group for their
dedication to CentralNic and for their passion and drive to achieve
our goals. I would also particularly like to thank our existing and
new investors and lenders who have supported our team during
a transformational year for the Group.
With continued progress in all areas of our business, at this stage
of the year we remain conﬁdent in the outlook for 2017.
Mike Turner Chairman
9 May 2017
Chairman’s statement continued
