 Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
14
A seventh successive year of 
growth in 2016 saw production of 
551,036 ounces increase by 26% 
over 2015 and exceed the top end 
of our revised annual guidance range 
of between 520,000 and 540,000 
ounces. Fourth quarter production 
was 136,787 ounces, an 8% reduction 
on the previous quarter, mainly due a 
lower average head grade of open pit 
ore of 0.85g/t (versus 1.14g/t in the 
third quarter), in line with the mining 
plan as a low-grade cutback in the east 
wall of the pit was developed. 
Safety is a critical area of Centamin’s 
performance and our aim is to ensure 
that every person returns safe at 
the end of each shift. Continued 
development of the onsite health and 
safety culture at Sukari has resulted 
in a low LTIFR for 2016 of 0.27 per 
200,000 man hours. Centamin remains 
committed to further improving health 
and safety during 2017 towards our 
‘zero-harm’ target.
The open pit total material movement 
in 2016 was 62.2Mt, an increase of 
8% on the prior year due to improved 
mining productivity and equipment 
utilisation, at an average mined grade 
of 0.93g/t. During the third quarter 
of 2016, open pit mining rates had 
achieved our annualised base case rate 
of approximately 65Mt of total material 
movement (ore plus waste) and mined 
grades had progressed towards the 
reserve average. During Q1 2017 
the open pit is scheduled to develop 
a low-grade east wall cutback and 
planned gold production will be lower 
than in Q4 2016. Grades are forecast 
to return towards the reserve average 
from Q2 2017 and the operation 
remains on a secure footing to deliver 
the scheduled material movements for 
the remaining mine life. 
The underground mine delivered 
1.02Mt of ore (a 12% decrease on 
2015) at a grade of 9.04g/t (up 40% on 
2015), achieving a sustained annualised 
rate in excess of our base case forecast 
of 1Mt per annum of ore at a grade of 
at least 6g/t. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
Whilst the gold market conditions improved, Centamin 
remained focused on its drive for productivity and 
efficiency, and undertook a growth strategy aimed 
at enhancing shareholder returns.
Andrew Pardey  
Chief executive officer Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
15
The process plant also continued to 
operate at levels above our base case 
forecast rate of 11Mtpa, with 11.6Mt of 
ore processed in 2016 (a 9% increase 
on 2015). The average metallurgical 
recovery was 89.4%, an increase of 
0.6% on 2015. Work continues to 
develop the potential to improve and 
sustain recoveries at the 90% level with 
increasing throughput rates.
Sukari’s cost performance during 2016 
provides a strong indication for the 
potential of the operation to generate 
significant free cash flow over the 
coming years. There was a year-on-year 
decrease in operating costs per tonne 
in both the open pit mining and 
processing areas, principally driven 
by reductions in the local diesel price 
during the first half of 2016, driven by 
international fuel price movements. 
During the fourth quarter, a devaluation 
of the Egyptian pound versus 
US dollar also had a positive impact 
on local costs. 
As a result of these factors, 
the cash cost of production of 
US$513 was below guidance of 
between US$530 and $550 per 
ounce. The AISC of US$694 was 
similarly below guidance of between 
US$720 and $750 per ounce, 
despite an increase in sustaining 
capital expenditure of US$27 million 
(a 74% increase on 2015), mainly 
due to a planned increase in fleet 
maintenance costs.
Centamin had previously elected 
to make advance payments against 
future profit share from 2013 onwards, 
to demonstrate goodwill towards 
the Egyptian government. The total 
value of these payments, amounting 
to US$28.75 million, was recovered 
against entitlement to profit share 
by the Egyptian Mineral Resources 
Authority (“EMRA”). 
To the end of 2016, further 
distributions of profit share amounting 
to a total of US$18.5 million had 
subsequently been made to EMRA. 
Both EMRA and PGM will benefit from 
advance distributions of profit share 
on a proportionate basis in accordance 
with the terms of the Concession 
Agreement and considering ongoing 
cash flows, historic costs that are 
still to be recovered and any future 
capital expenditure.
Free cash flow generation from Sukari 
of approximately US$200 million 
has further strengthened Centamin’s 
financial position during 2016, 
a trend we expect to continue as 
we forecast 2017 production of 
540,000 ounces at a cash cost of 
production of US$580 per ounce and 
an all-in sustaining cost of US$790 
per ounce. This guidance is based on 
a plant throughput of 11.75Mt and 
approximately 1Mt of underground 
ore mined at a grade of 7.26g/t. 
Underground operators  
in the Cleopatra decline Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
16
Ongoing optimisation of the 
processing and mining operations 
continues to offer scope for 
further increases in productivity 
and production growth. At the 
underground mine, we see potential 
for further increases in mined tonnages 
whilst retaining a priority on stable 
grade delivery. The additional 
shareholder value that can be gained 
through improving the delivery of 
high-grade underground ore has the 
potential to be significant and requires 
no material capital expenditure. 
At the process plant, further planned 
upgrades to the secondary crushing 
circuit with an estimated capital cost of 
circa US$6 million offer the potential for 
throughput rates to exceed 12Mtpa. 
In parallel with these productivity 
improvements, there remains scope 
for lower unit costs as the expanded 
operation continues to be optimised 
and further efficiency gains are realised.
We expect further growth of the 
Sukari reserve over the coming 
years as underground development 
and exploration continues, and the 
numerous regional prospects are 
evaluated. An updated resource and 
reserve estimate for Sukari is expected 
in 2017.
The objective of our producing asset, 
as always, is to generate substantial 
free cash flow even under challenging 
gold price assumptions. In line with 
our updated dividend policy, and 
supported by the board’s proposal 
for a final 2016 dividend of 13.5 US 
cents per share (equating to a full-year 
dividend of 15.5 US cents per share), 
we intend to return at least 30% of 
this cash flow to our shareholders. 
The remaining cash flows are allocated 
towards our medium and long term 
objective of organic growth, which 
is aimed at realising incremental 
shareholder value and returns.
We remain committed to our 
disciplined approach to capital 
allocation, as well as the potential 
for exploration to deliver significant 
shareholder value over the long 
term. Results from our programmes 
in Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire 
continue to build momentum and 
warrant further investment, and we 
again exit the year with a robust 
financial and operating base on 
which to continue delivering our 
growth strategy.
Exploration at Sukari continues to 
prioritise extensions of the high-grade 
underground resource and reserve, 
as the development and drilling 
extends along strike and at depth. 
We expect to continue to deliver 
positive news in line with our strong 
results to date and a further resource 
and reserve update is planned 
during 2017.
During August, we began 
development of a new exploration 
decline within the north-eastern 
Cleopatra zone of Sukari Hill. The total 
project expenditure is expected to be 
US$11.5 million, of which US$3 million 
has been spent to date. A portal has 
been established and approximately 
900 metres of development was 
completed to the end of the year. Initial 
exploration drilling has commenced 
to target multiple zones of high-grade 
mineralisation, as interpreted from 
existing data. The initial project is 
aimed at developing infrastructure 
with the capacity to support mining 
rates of up to 1Mtpa from this area. 
Ultimate production rates will depend 
on future results from the programme 
and further development, and would 
be in addition to the current 1Mtpa 
underground ore production from the 
Amun and Ptah declines.
In Côte d’Ivoire, exploration drilling 
over targets defined by geochemical 
and geophysical surveys has led to a 
new discovery at the Doropo project 
in the north-east of the country, 
adjacent to our licence holding across 
the border in Burkina Faso. A maiden 
resource of 0.3Moz at 1.6g/t indicated 
and 1.0moz at 1.3g/t inferred has 
been estimated from drilling results 
over five prospects within a 5km radius 
area. Preliminary metallurgical test 
work has returned positive results, 
indicating mineralisation is amenable 
to conventional leaching. Mineralisation 
at these prospects remains open 
along strike and at depth and drilling 
in 2017 will focus on expanding and 
upgrading this initial resource in these 
areas. Regional exploration will also 
continue to test existing and new 
prospects for laterally extensive and 
near-surface mineralisation. We have 
continued to expanded our portfolio 
of highly prospective licence holdings 
in Côte d’Ivoire and, with licence 
applications pending, we expect to 
increase this further during 2017.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT continued
The objective of our producing asset, as always,  
is to generate substantial free cash flow. Centamin plc  
Annual report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
17
In Burkina Faso, exploration during 
2016 continued to test the potential 
for lateral and depth extensions 
of the more advanced targets, 
with priority on the Wadaradoo 
and Napelapera prospect areas. 
We continue to evaluate the results 
from these programmes, and the 
resulting interpretation will guide 
further drilling to be carried out in 
2017. There remains potential to add 
significant shareholder value from 
this district-scale licence holding as 
we continue to make progress towards 
developing our next stage of growth 
in West Africa.
We expect a total exploration 
expenditure of circa US$25 million 
in 2017, split between Côte d’Ivoire 
and Burkina Faso. In line with our 
overall exploration strategy, the 
actual expenditure on these projects 
is results driven and the current 
estimated expenditures are therefore 
subject to ongoing revisions.
We will continue to evaluate potential 
opportunities to grow the business 
through the acquisition of projects 
offering the potential for the Company 
to deliver on its strategic objectives. 
Maintaining good community relations 
is a core part of our operational 
strategy and corporate governance 
standards. As the first mining company 
in Egypt in modern times, we strive to 
set an example of a socially responsible 
industry through adopting a good 
neighbour policy. We take every action 
to ensure Sukari has the minimum 
impact on the social environment, 
as well as to deliver positive benefits to 
Egypt and the community as a result of 
our investment, and further details of 
our various initiatives can be found in 
the social responsibility report.
Our workforce is remunerated well 
above the average for Egypt and our 
career development programmes 
are highly valued. In general we 
enjoy a very positive and constructive 
relationship with our employees.
We welcome Ross Jerrard who was 
appointed as our new chief financial 
officer (“CFO”). Ross joined Centamin 
from Deloitte Australia. He has worked 
in Southern Africa and the Middle East, 
including a three-and-a-half-year period 
based in Egypt, servicing a range of 
multinational and natural resources 
companies. I am pleased to report that 
during his first year as CFO, Ross has 
overseen continued improvements in 
the Company’s financial control and 
reporting functions.
Finally, I would like to thank all my 
colleagues for their hard work over the 
years including the employees onsite 
at Sukari, those on the exploration 
sites in Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire 
as well as those in the corporate and 
administration offices in Jersey and 
Australia. I would also like to thank your 
board of directors for their continued 
support and I am very much looking 
forward to another prosperous year for 
Centamin and its stakeholders in 2017.
Andrew Pardey
Chief executive officer
1 February 2017
Exploration drill rig  
in Côte d’Ivoire
