 CEO’s Review
Dear Shareholder:
Financial Year 2014 was an eventful year for 
blinkx.  We generated record revenues, profits 
and cash flow, and made transformative 
acquisitions to position the Company for the 
future.  Our vision is to connect consumers 
and advertisers through premium digital 
content on any device, anywhere in the 
world.  Leveraging our technology roots, 
we have created a growing ecosystem of 
audience partners, content providers, and 
advertisers that continue to drive our growth.  
We accelerated the expansion of our mobile 
efforts, realigned resources and extended our 
reach as a cross-device digital video content, 
distribution and advertising platform.  We 
remain optimistic about the fundamentals of 
the online advertising industry and believe we 
have the right assets and a culture of innovation 
to compete and succeed.    We have a capable 
and focused team, unique technological 
capabilities and a growing network of 
commercial relationships.  We exit the year 
with significant resources and a steadfast 
commitment to our growth strategy.
The digital advertising industry continues 
to experience robust growth and continued 
evolution, with advertising spend shifting rapidly 
from offline to online channels as advertisers 
follow consumers online.  For the first time in 
2013, digital advertising spend eclipsed that 
of broadcast television, after surpassing print 
advertising the year before.  Within the sector , 
mobile, video and programmatic trading  (being 
the automated buying and selling of adverts) 
are projected to grow the fastest, with several 
structural tailwinds fueling these trends.  
Widespread broadband adoption, proliferation 
of connected devices and the increasing 
consumption of content across devices have 
resulted in an exponential growth of highly 
targetable advertising inventory.  The sector also 
continues to evolve as it grows.  Since 1995 we 
have seen the emergence and growth of display, 
rich media, search, email, social, video and 
mobile advertising.  This not only underscores 
the vitality of the sector but also that of our 
business model.  Since inception, blinkx has 
anticipated shifts in the industry and, through 
organic investments and acquisitions, aligned 
itself with emerging trends and opportunities.  
After pioneering video search in 2004, we 
expanded into video discovery, syndication and, 
most recently, mobile as the market evolved.
Our strategic activities in FY2014 covered a 
range of organic investments and acquisitions 
as we seek to position the Company to take 
advantage of these developments.  We 
launched several innovative products, designed 
to expand our video footprint and applied for 
several new patents.  Examples include blinkx 
VideoAdvantage (bVA), a self-serve video 
syndication platform, blinkx VideoMatch 
(bVM), which automatically replaces static 
images in an online article with contextually 
relevant videos, Skyrocket, a flexible and 
transparent online video hub, and blinkx Boost, 
a federated shopping comparison engine.  The 
acquisition of the Grab Media video syndication 
platform in August 2013 has allowed us to 
augment relationships with our key advertisers, 
publishers and content providers, thereby 
providing increased scale.  In December 2013 
we acquired Rhythm NewMedia, the leading 
premium mobile video advertising and 
technology platform.   
 
|   7
Our vision is to connect consumers 
and advertisers through premium 
digital content on any device, 
anywhere in the world.
Subhransu (“Brian”) 
Mukherjee, 
Chief Executive 
Officer This enabled us to leapfrog competitors and 
replicate our business model in the mobile 
sector at a time when advertising spend 
is starting to shift from desktop to mobile 
devices.  A coveted asset, Rhythm NewMedia 
aligned perfectly with our vision and positions 
us well with the technology, talent and 
relationships in mobile video, arguably the most 
effective brand advertising medium.  Finally, 
in May 2014, we completed the acquisition 
of LYFE Mobile, a Demand-Side and Data 
Management Platform, which provided us an 
entry point into the programmatic segment of 
mobile advertising.  The LYFE acquisition brings 
us incremental demand and the foundational 
elements of a unified, cross-device targeting 
platform.  We expect to make additional 
investments in big data and cloud computing 
infrastructure to scale this platform.
blinkx continues to reap the benefits of an 
experienced, committed and well-integrated 
management team.  In addition to new 
products and technology, the acquisitions 
we made have enabled us to attract talented 
staff with extensive experience and deep 
relationships in the mobile and video 
advertising sector.  During the year, we made 
several key executive hires in product, sales, 
technology and international operations, all 
of whom will play critical roles in driving our 
future growth.  In an effort to enhance our 
governance profile, we also strengthened and 
expanded our Board of Directors to seven with 
the appointments of two respected business 
and technology leaders as Non-Executive 
Directors.  Former LexisNexis International 
Chief Executive Officer Ms.  Judy Vezmar joined 
the blinkx Board in January 2014, bringing 
with her significant international expansion, 
marketing and business transformation 
experience to the role.  Mr.  Ujjal Kohli, former 
founder and CEO of Rhythm NewMedia, joined 
the Board in March 2014.  Ujjal brings over 
twenty-five years of entrepreneurial, executive 
management, engineering, marketing, mobile, 
strategy and M&A experience to blinkx from 
companies such as Airtouch, Vodafone and 
McKinsey.
We operate in an industry that continues to 
grow and evolve rapidly and requires us to 
be ever vigilant and flexible.  We are in the 
fortunate position to have an abundance of 
growth opportunities that far exceeds capital 
at our disposal.   T o quote Warren Buffet, we 
therefore have the luxury of watering the 
flowers and skipping over the weeds.   Our cash 
reserves enable us to make critical investments 
in technology, infrastructure, products, sales, 
marketing and acquisitions to quickly scale 
our business.  Through ongoing investments 
in mobile, syndication, content and owned 
and operated properties, we continue to 
expand our footprint on the supply side of the 
ecosystem.  We plan to expand our demand 
side relationships by combining our direct sales 
efforts across desktop and mobile and through 
programmatic integrations with new trading 
partners.  Over the past year we explored over 
150 targets and closed three deals—a reflection 
of our disciplined acquisition strategy and 
process.   Of the six acquisitions we made, the 
consideration for four was in Cash, one was in 
Cash and Stock and one was in Stock in another 
AIM listed company (known as a ‘stock for 
stock exchange’).   As a cash buyer, we have an 
opportunity to get ahead in the queue and are 
able to negotiate better terms.   Expect us to 
continue on the path of disciplined deployment 
of cash to quickly scale the business through 
organic and inorganic means.  
8   |   FY2014 Annual Report
We remain optimistic about 
the fundamentals of the online 
advertising industry and believe 
we have the right assets and a 
culture of innovation to compete 
and succeed. |   9
We have seen our stock price rise to record 
levels this year, but also experienced a 
precipitous pull back.  This volatility is yet 
another reminder to us of an important 
point—in the short run, the market is a voting 
machine but in the long run, it is a weighing 
machine, to quote the legendary investor, Ben 
Graham.  Just because our stock price goes up 
or down does not mean we are that much more 
or less capable on any given day.  We go to great 
lengths internally to focus on performance and 
work hard every day to take a long-term view to 
build a company of heft and consequence.
In closing, we are happy with our operating 
and financial performance this year.  Our 
continued growth with profitability is evidence 
of a differentiated and competitive business 
model, with a broad mix of products that lets 
us satisfy advertiser objectives from awareness 
and interest, to consideration and conversion.  
Our financial metrics demonstrate the benefits 
of integration and strong operational and 
acquisition discipline.  We exit the year with a 
robust balance sheet and multiple options to 
drive truly catalytic growth.  Our customers, 
competitors and critics inspire us to work 
hard, and a smart, capable, energized team is 
ready to take on the challenge.  As we enter 
the new financial year, we remain focused on 
connecting consumers and brands through 
premium content on any device, anywhere in 
the world.
Finally, let me also take this opportunity to 
express my sincere gratitude to you, our 
shareholders.  Your support provides us 
the resources and resolve to compete in 
an exhilarating industry.  I hope you share 
the enthusiasm we at blinkx feel about the 
Company and our prospects.
Subhransu (“Brian”) Mukherjee 
Chief Executive Officer 
blinkx plc 
6 June 2014
In addition to new products and technology, the acquisitions 
we made have enabled us to attract talented staff with 
extensive experience and deep relationships in the mobile and 
video advertising sector .
