 |   5
Chairman’s Review
I am delighted to announce another strong year 
by the blinkx team.  The Company continues 
to display a good operating discipline and 
positive growth metrics, driven by its unique 
technology, well-diversified product mix and 
a growing network of relationships.  This has 
enabled the Company to outperform the 
sector and its peers in the rapidly growing 
digital advertising industry by delivering both 
growth and profitability.   The Company’s 
performance is evidence of the significant 
strides the team has made in financial discipline 
and operational efficiency.  As far as I can see, 
our growth prospects  through both organic 
and inorganic channels look bright.
The Company’s performance in the past year 
was achieved despite the obvious distractions 
in the fourth quarter of the financial year.  The 
Company diverted considerable time, energy 
and resources to conduct comprehensive 
internal and external diligence to address 
the unwarranted and unfair attack on the 
Company.  On behalf of the Board, I would 
like to commend the management team for 
its resolve and calm, and the considered and 
detailed response.
Over the course of the year the Board has 
also taken significant steps to bolster its 
Governance and Independence efforts.   We 
have added two new highly qualified and 
capable Board members, increasing the 
count of Directors to seven.  We are delighted 
to welcome Ujjal Kohli and Judy Vezmar to 
the Board, pending the ratification of their 
appointments by shareholders.  
 
During the year, the Board and its committees 
have addressed other requirements arising 
from changes to regulations as well.  In 
this report the Company presents its first 
Strategic Report on the business and increased 
disclosures on matters affecting audit and 
remuneration.
I would further like to thank our institutional 
and private shareholders, as well as our 
customers and partners, for their continued 
support of blinkx.  The Board is encouraged 
by the performance of both the Company 
and the management team and is confident 
about blinkx’s future and prospects.  I wish the 
Company and its shareholders every success in 
the future.
Anthony Bettencourt 
Chairman of the Board of Directors 
blinkx plc 
6 June 2014
The Board is encouraged 
by the performance 
of both the Company 
and the management 
team and is confident 
about blinkx’s future and 
prospects.  
Anthony Bettencourt, 
Chairman of the Board 
of Directors  Strategic Report
6   |   FY2014 Annual Report
The Strategic Report is designed to inform shareholders of the key information that is of importance to the Directors in 
managing the business and realizing the Company’s vision.  The Strategic Report is expected to help shareholders assess 
how the Directors have progressed in meeting Company objectives and maximizing shareholder value.
