 Charles Stanley Annual report and accounts 2016 04
Chairman’s statement
Chairman’s statement
Our results for the year reflect the lower levels of activity 
which have been experienced across the market in general 
over recent months. This, together with the disposal of 
non-core businesses, which I flagged in my statement 
last year, has led to a decline in our reported revenue from 
£149.7 million for the year ended 31 March 2015 to £141.6 
million for the 2016 financial year. Our tight control of costs 
helped mitigate the impact of this, with the adjusted profit 
before tax from our Core Business holding up well at 
£4.2 million compared with £4.4 million in financial year 2015 
and the reported loss before tax improving from £6.1 million 
incurred in the previous financial year to £0.3 million this year.
Clients’ Funds under Management and Administration 
(FuMA) were impacted by the market downturn, ending 
the year at £20.5 billion compared with £21.3 billion the 
year before. This represents a decline of 3.8% compared 
with the decline in our principal comparator, the WMA 
Balanced Index, of 3.5%, and of 8.8% in the FTSE 100 Index. 
Within these figures the level of managed funds fell by 
rather less, 2.4%, from £12.3 billion as at 31 March 2015 to 
£12.0 billion at the end of March 2016.
As I reported in my statement last year, we carried out a 
fund-raising exercise in April 2015 to strengthen the Group’s 
balance sheet. This was well supported by shareholders. 
We raised £15.8 million net of transaction expenses. As at  
31 March 2016, our cash balances were nearly £20 million 
higher at £48.1 million compared to the previous year 
(31 March 2015: £28.5 million).
This has been a year of significant strategic development 
and implementation, and our Chief Executive Officer, 
Paul Abberley, addresses this in detail in the Our strategy 
report on pages 18 and 19.
Sir David Howard
Chairman
During the year ended 31 March 2016, 
we have driven forward our 
transformation programme in the 
face of market headwinds. There is 
much to do still, and our sights remain 
resolutely fixed on our ambition to be 
the leading wealth manager in the UK 
in terms of the quality of what we do 
and how we serve our valued clients. 
Our strategy remains strongly focused 
on broadening our core investment 
management offering into a holistic 
wealth management business 
incorporating financial planning, 
asset management and digital 
platform enterprises.
Focusing on Culture
In order to uphold company law and meet regulatory 
expectations, Charles Stanley has completed its 
journey from a culture in which responsibility is 
shared by the partners to a culture in which individual 
accountability plays a significant role. Our values 
revolve at all times around the best interests of the 
client and, indeed, the Board proactively seeks to 
promote and embed the culture.
For more on Governance  
go to page 52 Charles Stanley Annual report and accounts 2016 charles-stanley.co.uk 05
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Activities of the Board
Over the past year, whilst continuing with its general 
oversight and challenge responsibilities, the Board has 
been particularly focused on a number of key areas:
• Review of the structure of the Group’s key management 
committees and reporting hierarchy to improve their 
quality and effectiveness
• Development of the detailed strategic implementation 
plans for each of our core operating divisions
• Changes to the Board membership itself and of other 
senior appointments
• The completion of the implementation of the Group’s 
revised client suitability processes
• Oversight of the design of revised variable remuneration 
arrangements which have been consulted on with the 
Group’s investment managers.
The common themes of these activities have been to 
ensure that the Group is both equipped to deliver on its 
transformation programme and that not only are clients’ 
interests embedded front and centre throughout our 
culture, which I firmly believe they are, but also that there 
is tangible demonstration of this.
Reporting structures
Over a number of years we have developed from having a 
very flat reporting structure to one where we have quite a 
large number of subcommittees, both of the Board itself 
and of the Executive Committee.
The main challenge posed by the range of committees 
required is how to ensure they operate effectively to enable 
good and timely decision-making. During the year the 
Board has challenged a number of aspects of the structure, 
including the terms of reference, membership, reporting 
hierarchy and management information produced. 
Much progress has been made. However there is further 
to go and we anticipate this will continue to be a main 
area of focus during the 2017 financial year.
Development of strategy
Strategy is naturally an evolving canvas and, having laid out 
the broad tenets of how Charles Stanley was intended to 
develop a year ago, a key task for the Executive Committee 
has been to complete the strategy review and then develop 
the detailed implementation plans to put this into effect. 
The role of the Board and of the Non-executive Directors 
in particular during the year has been to challenge these 
plans to ensure they are robust both from shareholders’ 
and clients’ perspectives. We have had many healthy 
debates and refinement along the way so I am confident 
that what is emerging and being put into effect will help 
us achieve our goals.
Having laid out the broad tenets of 
how Charles Stanley was intended 
to develop a year ago, a key task for 
the Executive Committee has been 
to complete the strategy review 
and then develop the detailed 
implementation plans to put this 
into effect.  Charles Stanley Annual report and accounts 2016 06
Team
It is now more than a year since Paul Abberley agreed 
to succeed me as Chief Executive Officer, and the 2016 
year-end results mark his first full year in this role. It has 
been an extremely busy year for Paul and I should like to 
pay tribute to him for his energy and his vision. In the midst 
of a major transformation of our business and in difficult 
market conditions, he has taken the Group forward strongly.
Paul has been more than ably assisted by our new Chief 
Financial Officer, Ben Money-Coutts, who was appointed 
to this role in June 2015. Ben has restructured our Finance 
department and plays a leading role in our Executive 
Committee, chaired by Paul Abberley.
Regrettably, Anthony Scott, the Director co-heading our 
Investment Management Services division alongside Gary 
Teper, decided to step down in April 2016 for personal 
reasons. Anthony was central to developing our new and 
enhanced proposition to our private clients, and I thank him 
warmly for his contribution. The Investment Management 
Services division remains under Gary’s capable leadership.
We decided in 2015 that the Company would benefit from 
having a fourth Non-executive Director, in addition to David 
Pusinelli, Bridget Guerin and myself. With the help of external 
consultants we identified Andrew Didham as a particularly 
well-qualified candidate to take on the chairmanship of the 
Risk Committee.
Amongst other key changes in personnel during the year 
I should mention that we have reorganised our Risk and 
Compliance teams under the oversight of Peter Kelk, our 
Chief Risk Officer. Peter has already made good progress 
and I should like to thank him for his considerable input to 
this area.
The 2016 financial year was a busy and demanding year for 
all of my fellow Non-executive Directors, who, between them, 
chair our Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees and I 
should like to thank them for their support to the Group.
It has also been another challenging year of change for 
everyone in the Company – Directors, managers, investment 
managers and so many others – and this is my opportunity 
to say thank you to them all on behalf of the shareholders, 
for coping with all the demands in making Charles Stanley 
the fine Company that it is.
Suitability processes
I commented in my statement last year on the suitability 
review programme that required most of the Group’s staff 
involvement. The initial process was completed to timetable 
at the end of June 2015 after considerable effort by all of 
our investment management teams, Compliance, IT and 
Operations departments, as well as with the great 
forbearance of our clients. Of course it is an ongoing 
programme to ensure we keep an up-to-date profile 
of our clients’ investment objectives, financial position, 
attitude to risk and capacity for loss. Accordingly, the Board 
has continued to pay close attention to the embedding of 
this approach in our business as usual processes.
Remuneration structures
We have for some time been in consultation with our 
investment management teams about their variable 
remuneration arrangements, both because it is a key 
component in helping to improve the Group’s profitability 
and because it is seen as a key driver of delivering good 
client outcomes. Ordinarily such a review might be overseen 
by the Remuneration Committee, but such is the import of 
these discussions that the full Board has played an active 
oversight role. We have agreed interim arrangements which 
subsist for the financial year ending 31 March 2017 and we 
believe we are close to reaching a long-term agreement. 
I would like to thank all concerned for the constructive way 
in which they have entered into the dialogue and know that 
everyone is looking forward to finalising terms.
Chairman’s statement
We are moving steadily along 
a transformational path from being 
a traditional stockbroking business 
to a full-scale holistic wealth manager . 
Much has been achieved already.  Charles Stanley Annual report and accounts 2016 charles-stanley.co.uk 07
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Dividend
This time last year we re-based our recommendation for the 
final dividend for financial year 2015 at 2 pence per share. 
Together with the interim dividend of 3 pence per share paid 
in November 2014, this resulted in a total dividend of 5 pence 
per share for the year. In January 2016 an interim dividend of 
1.5 pence per share was paid in respect of the 2016 financial 
year. The Board is now recommending a final dividend of 
3.5 pence per share thus maintaining the total dividend for 
the financial year at 5 pence per share. As indicated last 
year, it is the Company’s intention that, as profitability starts 
to improve significantly, we will return over a period of time 
to our previous pattern of steadily increasing dividends.
Outlook
The new management team has now been in place for over 
a year and we are moving steadily along a transformational 
path from being a traditional stockbroking business to a 
full-scale holistic wealth manager. Much has been achieved 
already and there is much still to be done.
The market backdrop to all this remains problematic. 
Since this time last year growth in most of the developed 
economies has ticked up a little, but the commodity-based 
economies are in a state of turmoil which threatens wider 
global markets. Now the issues are less the state of the Euro 
and the Greek economy – though these are not far away 
– but the ramifications of the referendum on Britain’s 
membership of the EU, and the choice facing the American 
electorate in November this year. Either has potentially huge 
implications for the market, and could swing share price 
levels and trading volume either way.
I believe that Charles Stanley is on track with its programme 
of change and development. The background conditions 
were equally worrying last year when I suggested a slightly 
higher degree of optimism for the year ahead. This has 
proved to be justified, and I think it is fair to suggest a similar 
degree of gentle optimism for the financial year ending 
31 March 2017.
Sir David Howard
Chairman
16 June 2016
I believe that Charles Stanley is on 
track with its programme of change 
and development.
