 Strategic report / Chief Executive’s report
Chief Executive’s report
Financial performance
The Group’s losses were significantly reduced during the 
year, with stabilisation in both the reported and the Core 
Business results. Nevertheless, difficult financial markets in 
the second half of the financial year did prove challenging. 
While overall costs were reduced by £15.1 million, 
these savings were partially offset by an £8.1 million 
decline in revenues as weaker markets both reduced 
fee income and led to lower commissions. Across the 
four operating divisions combined, after tax performance 
marginally improved.
Good progress was made in addressing the financial 
performance of our smaller divisions, namely Asset 
Management, Financial Planning and most notably, 
Charles Stanley Direct.
We are grateful to our shareholders for a successful capital 
raising which re-established a strong balance sheet in 
excess of the Board’s preferred buffer above the regulatory 
capital requirement. These funds were earmarked for 
reserves and have remained untouched.
Total Funds under Management and Administration fell 
by £0.8 billion during the financial year to £20.5 billion. 
During the same period the FTSE 100 Index and WMA 
Balanced Index fell by 8.8% and 3.5% respectively. The 
business mix continues to move in favour of managed 
accounts at the expense of Advisory business.
Strategy implementation
Our strategic review reaffirmed that we remain an 
investment-led Group and retain our commitment to 
providing genuinely personalised wealth management 
delivered by investment professionals. Our private client 
offering will remain full service, extending to Advisory and 
Execution-only services in addition to the core Discretionary 
portfolio management. The review also affirmed a strategic 
commitment to provide holistic wealth management, 
offering financial planning, asset management and digital 
services. Finally, as flagged in our Interim report and 
accounts for the period ended 30 September 2015, we have 
disposed of non-core assets, underlining our 100% focus 
on the UK wealth management market. 
Paul Abberley
Chief Executive Officer
Our three-fold priorities for the 
year were to arrest the decline in 
profitability, determine and begin 
to implement the strategic direction 
for Charles Stanley and build the 
foundations upon which we 
can drive sustainable growth. 
Solid progress was achieved 
in each. We have reduced our 
losses by £5.8 million, refocused 
on core activities that will allow 
us to deliver high levels of customer 
satisfaction, and made significant 
progress in terms of making the 
Group more efficient over the 
long term. We look forward to 
another year of progress as we 
pursue our aim of becoming the 
UK’s leading wealth manager. Charles Stanley Annual report and accounts 2016 charles-stanley.co.uk 09
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Mobilisation represents the first stage in our strategy 
implementation and this is largely complete. An overhaul 
of management information, governance and controls is 
creating a platform from which strategic change can be 
delivered with greater pace and precision. Two new 
divisions, Financial Planning and Asset Management, have 
been created from legacy businesses and capabilities. 
Together with the Investment Management Services division 
and Charles Stanley Direct, these four profit centres enable 
the flexible delivery of the range of services increasingly 
sought by our clients.
The year ahead
While retaining a primary focus on client service, the year 
ending 31 March 2017 will be another year of significant 
and sometimes challenging change as we accelerate the 
detailed implementation of our strategy in each of our four 
key operating divisions while re-engineering our operational 
and support functions.
The impact on near-term revenues from the current 
challenging market environment presents trade-offs 
between recording short-term improvements in profitability 
and investing in the full implementation of the long-term 
strategy. This might lead to an extension of the time frames 
originally envisaged. Achievement of a 15% operating margin 
is still regarded as attainable but is likely to take 12 to 18 
months longer than originally anticipated in the absence 
of a significant market rally. We will proceed prudently.
In summary, while I believe that much has been achieved, 
considerable work lies ahead. With skilled execution 
and sensible stewardship, our vision of becoming the 
UK’s leading wealth manager by 2020 is still firmly within 
our sights.
Paul Abberley
Chief Executive Officer
16 June 2016
With skilled execution and sensible 
stewardship, our vision of becoming 
the UK’s leading wealth manager by 
2020 is still firmly within our sights.
Strategic report
The strategic report outlines our performance in the 
year, how we have delivered against our objectives 
and our strategic plans for the years ahead.
Contents 
10  Strategy and operating principles overview 
12  Key performance indicators 
16  Our business 
17  Our markets 
18  Our strategy 
20  Review of the year 
38  Risk management and principal risks 
46  Corporate social responsibility report
For more on Our strategy 
go to page 18
