 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Charles Stanley Group PLC
Report and Accounts 2015
5
The year to 31 March 2015 has seen some of the most significant changes in Charles Stanley in the 
two centuries since the business was first established. While we marginally increased our revenue, 
our profits have been adversely impacted by the changes and we ended the year with a loss before 
tax of £6.1 million (2014: profit £6.1 million). After amending for adjusting items we recorded an 
underlying profit before tax of £4.2 million compared with £13.5 million the previous year.
Throughout the year our management and client-facing investment teams have been heavily engaged 
in the major programme to which I referred last year, of upgrading our systems and our record-keeping 
to meet the rising regulatory expectations across our area of the financial services sector. This has led 
to a substantial re-modelling of the interface with our extensive client base, which is moving forward 
on schedule to completion very shortly. The outcome is intended to reinforce our high-quality offer 
of service to our clients by ensuring we build and maintain a deep understanding of each client’s
circumstances and thus the suitability of the service provided. We are hugely appreciative of our 
clients’ forbearance in what has been a very demanding process.
The decline in our profitability is essentially due to a combination of the rising costs associated with 
these changes, and, to an extent, the inevitable diversion of focus from business generation. But the 
upside is that we firmly believe that we have built a stronger base to take our business forward.
MANAGEMENT
These developments have coincided with some significant management changes and the initiatives
described below have further enhanced the effectiveness of the Board. European legislation now dictates
that the role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of financial services businesses should be separate.
Accordingly, our Nomination Committee was tasked with seeking a new Chief Executive Officer. After a
rigorous process the Board was delighted to appoint Paul Abberley to this role. Paul, who has held 
senior executive roles in the Aviva group, joined us in May last year as Chief Investment Officer, and 
was confirmed as our new Chief Executive Officer in December on receipt of approval from the FCA. 
I continue to serve as Non-executive Chairman.
In January 2015 we were further delighted to accept the recommendation of our Nomination Committee 
to appoint Ben Money-Coutts as our Chief Financial Officer (CFO), in place of James Rawlingson, who
stepped down at that time, and to whom I should like to express the Board’s thanks. Ben joined us 
in May 2013 and subsequently held senior positions in the Company prior to his appointment as 
Chief Financial Officer.
At our 31 March 2015 year-end Michael Clark stepped down as a Director, having served throughout the
entire 27 years since Charles Stanley was transformed from a partnership to an incorporated company. 
Michael continues to be employed by the Group, and I should like to pay the warmest tribute to him on
behalf of us all for his long service to Charles Stanley.
This has been a very busy and demanding year for my fellow Non-executive Directors, who, between them,
chair our Remuneration, Audit, Nomination and Risk Committees and I should like to thank them warmly
for their support of the Group. Their reports are set out on later pages.
Overall the Company’s Board has been reduced in size and its committee structure streamlined, further
enhancing its effectiveness during an important phase in the Company’s development. Separately, a 
Chief Risk Officer (CRO) has been appointed and now leads an independent risk function.
STRATEGY
Historically our strategy has been to develop the business of the Group as evenly as possible across a 
broad waterfront of different business lines, though all essentially built around our core proposition of 
a high quality of investment management, advisory and administration services to a range of different 
(but complementary) client segments. Over the past couple of years this strategy has been finessed so 
that greater emphasis is now placed on developing the core business, while retaining and building only 
those ancillary businesses which directly support and feed into the core activity. Examples of the latter 
are our successful and growing EBS SIPP operation, and our expanding Financial Planning offering.
Charles Stanley Direct, our award-winning direct-to-client digital platform, has continued to build its 
client base and Assets under Administration, and this, too, is a key element in our strategy going forward.
Clients of our Discretionary and Advisory services increasingly seek digital access to every aspect of 
their accounts. We believe that clients will welcome our planned strategic development of greater 
cross-functionality between these different elements of our service.
SIR DAVID HOWARD
Stanley Report 14th Proof 24 June 2015_Stanley R/A 1st proof 16/3  23/06/2015  21:10  Page 5 Charles Stanley Group PLC
Report and Accounts 2015
6
NARRATIVE
REPORTS
As a consequence of our increased focus and as announced previously, we have been progressing with 
the sale of our corporate broking division, Charles Stanley Securities, and our employee benefits business
Charles Stanley Financial Solutions Ltd, both of which are not regarded as core. On 17 June 2015 the 
Group announced contracts had been exchanged with Panmure Gordon (UK) Limited regarding the sale 
of Charles Stanley Securities. Further announcements regarding the sale of Charles Stanley Financial
Solutions Ltd will be issued in due course.
CAPITAL
A further area on which the Board has focused during the year has been the Group’s capital position. 
The maintenance of high cash balances has always been a significant strategic objective, and although 
these remain high, the effect of reduced profitability and maintained dividends, has been to reduce 
these below target levels. At the year-end the cash balance stood at £28.5 million compared with 
£38.6 million a year earlier. So just after the year-end, in April 2015, the Group arranged a fund-raising 
which was fully taken up, predominantly by existing institutional shareholders, raising £15.8 million net 
of expenses. We are extremely grateful to our shareholders for their proactive support.
DIVIDEND
In light of the reported loss for the latest year, and in order not to dilute the newly increased capital, 
the Board has reluctantly decided to re-base its dividend payments. While the interim dividend, paid 
in November 2014, was maintained at 3.00p per share, it has been decided to recommend a final dividend 
of 2.00p per share, which compares with last year’s final dividend of 9.25p. This was flagged to shareholders
at the time of the fund-raising in early April, and is now confirmed as the Board’s recommendation. 
We fully expect, once profitability picks up, to return to our previous pattern of steadily increasing 
dividends over time, with dividend cover of at least two times (as adjusted for the amortisation of
intangibles).
EMPLOYEES
This has been a challenging year for everyone in the Group and this is my opportunity to say thank you to
them all, on behalf of the Directors and shareholders, for coping with all the demands in such good spirit, 
in taking their Company – your Company – further ahead.
OUTLOOK
The changes in key management in the Group are bedding in well. We are going through a significant process
of change so as to refocus Charles Stanley, ensuring the continued excellence of our client service and to
place ourselves at the front of the regulatory curve. There is a substantial programme of work ahead of us
but I believe that shareholders should have every confidence in the team that we have built to take this
forward.
As always both the domestic and global economic conditions have a very significant effect on our business.
Despite some obvious geopolitical risks, the broader outlook seems more benign than it has for several years.
Growth has returned to our economy and to that of the USA, and there are better signs of an uptick in
Europe too. True, the signals from China could herald a slow-down in world growth. The forthcoming 
UK referendum on Britain’s EU membership creates some – but perhaps limited – uncertainty. On the other
hand this could well turn out to be positive, with the chance of meaningful reforms giving a boost to growth
across Europe.
While remaining, as always, very cautious, I think there are signs for a little more optimism in the 
year ahead.
Sir David Howard
Chairman
18 June 2015
Stanley Report 14th Proof 24 June 2015_Stanley R/A 1st proof 16/3  23/06/2015  21:10  Page 6
