 Charles Stanley Group PLC
Report and Accounts 2015
7
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Having been appointed Chief Executive Officer in late 2014 my immediate priorities have been threefold:
 Ensuring our staff continue to aim for the highest possible level of client delivery. Client service 
and outcomes form the bedrock upon which we will continue to grow Charles Stanley;
 Diagnose and address the near term deterioration in profitability; and
 Review, and as necessary, reshape our corporate strategy.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Several of the underlying elements of the Group’s financial performance for the year ending 31 March 2015
were encouraging but the overall result was unsatisfactory.
Total Funds under Management and Administration (FuMA) grew 6.0% to £21.3 billion, revenues rose 
0.5% to £149.7 million, but our underlying profit before tax fell from £13.5 million to £4.2 million and 
our actual reported profit turned from a profit before tax of £6.1 million in 2014 to a loss before tax of 
£6.1 million in 2015. This loss resulted in a decline in net assets attributable to equity shareholders to 
£68.9 million (2014: £83.4 million) and of our year-end cash balance from £38.6 million the preceding 
year to £28.5 million.
Underlying these disappointing numbers there are nevertheless some encouraging trends, most notably:
 13.4% growth of Discretionary Funds under Management;
 23.0% increase in fees generated from our Managed investment activities; and
 35.0% growth of Charles Stanley Direct’s Assets under Administration (AuA) on its core 
direct-to-client platform and 37.1% increase in revenues.
These figures give substance to the view that the core activities of the Group and quality of client service
are fundamentally sound, but that much needs to be done to drive greater overall revenue growth and the
productivity of our staff whilst ensuring tight control of our cost base.
KEY INITIATIVES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD
Implementation of the revised strategy will begin in earnest. We will focus exclusively on wealth
management in the UK, and accordingly have already announced our intention to dispose of 
non-core operations.
We remain an investment-led firm and retain our commitment to providing genuinely bespoke investment
management for our clients. We know our clients value a personal service, delivered by an empowered
investment professional. Our investment offering will continue to extend to Advisory and Execution-only
services in addition to the core Discretionary portfolio management.
Increasingly, our clients require advice and we are renewing our commitment to make such support
available. Our Financial Planning staff will be combined into a single Financial Planning division, enlarged
over time, and offering a high quality and consistent suite of services, focussing upon but not limited to,
retirement and inheritance.
PAUL ABBERLEY
Stanley Report 14th Proof 24 June 2015_Stanley R/A 1st proof 16/3  23/06/2015  21:10  Page 7 Charles Stanley Group PLC
Report and Accounts 2015
8
NARRATIVE
REPORTS
A number of our teams provide both specialist Asset Management products to clients and research support
to our core Investment Management division. These units include PAN Asset Management, the Collectives
Portfolios Service, the IHT portfolio service, Matterley funds, Discretionary Fund Management and the 
central Research function. They will now be restructured and combined into a single Asset Management
division. This will allow for the cost-effective leveraging over a broad range of investment specialisms.
Research support for our private client investment teams will be further enhanced. Asset management
solutions will be offered to financial intermediaries and wholesale and institutional clients.
We will continue to provide a broad range of platforms and wrappers, reflecting the varying needs of 
our clients. These will include SIPP administration, delivered by our EBS unit.
Finally, while known for our personal service, we are also acutely aware that our clients require high quality
digital access to our products and services. Indeed, whether by choice or because more practical, some 
will continue to use this route exclusively. Accordingly, we remain committed to our highly regarded 
Charles Stanley Direct offering. The innovative delivery developed within the platform will be leveraged
across the Charles Stanley offering, benefitting all clients.
We expect the benefits from the implementation of the strategy to take a number of years to have full effect.
We have set ourselves the primary financial objective of building our operating margin to at least 15% in
2018 and expect it to grow further beyond that.
In summary, we will be active at four points on the value chain and thus vertically integrated. Each point 
will be managed as a profit centre and thus Financial Planning, provision of Platforms and Wrappers,
Investment Management and Asset Management will each contribute to the long term growth of both 
our profits and our margin. Implementation of the revised strategy will be a multi-year exercise, 
but meaningful progress will be delivered in the current financial year.
Paul Abberley
Chief Executive Officer
18 June 2015
Stanley Report 14th Proof 24 June 2015_Stanley R/A 1st proof 16/3  23/06/2015  21:10  Page 8
