 2 Christie Group Annual Report 2016
After a subdued first half, which – as
previously reported – was caused by the
inertia leading up to the EU referendum,
I am pleased to advise that our trading
environment recovered following the
summer holiday period.
We achieved full year revenue of
£64.5m, and in doing so delivered a
small increase on the prior year (2015:
£63.7m). Our first-half operating loss
before exceptionals of £0.9m was
eradicated in the second half and an
operating profit before exceptional items
of £1.0m (2015: £3.8m) was generated
for the year as a whole.
In addition, we recorded an exceptional
operating profit of £1.3m (2015: £nil) as
a result of introducing further inflation
capping to our final salary pension
schemes, both of which remain
closed to new members.
As a result of all of the above,
operating profit after exceptionals
totalled £2.3m (2015: £3.8m). Earnings
per share stood at 5.35p per share
(2015: 9.73p per share). While this
amounted to a decrease on the prior
year, it was nonetheless reflective of an
encouraging recovery after a challenging
first half. 
Cash flow in the year reflected capital
expenditure investment in the business
for the longer term of £1.3m as well as
a £1.2m increase in trade receivables
due to the positive second half trading.
Our working capital control and bad debt
experience both remain excellent and
our available cash and facilities support
our aspirations for the year ahead. 
Professional Business Services
As alluded to above, it was the Corporate
M&A activity which saw a lack of activity.
Whilst we deliberately strive to keep 
a healthy balance between transactional
and advisory services, it is of course 
a fact that most advisory work,
valuations, revaluations, due diligence
and consultancy work revolve around
either current transactions or plans for
future transactions. 
Agency activity was dispersed across our
trade sectors. The star sector during the
year was Children’s Day Care, which
delivered several highlights during the
year with this momentum continuing
into 2017 as highlighted by its sale of
Magic Nurseries to Les Petits
Chaperons Rouge in January.
Helpfully, we saw an increase in
transaction activity in the lesser
regulated sectors such as Retail and
Hospitality. This will lead to our 
‘deal agreed’ pipeline throughput
accelerating, where deals tend to
conclude more quickly in these sectors
so that the conversion of pipeline to
recognised revenue is swifter .
Our International transactional and
advisory business, combined with
international trade from our UK base,
ensured that these activities returned 
an operating profit. We did, however,
experience a post-Brexit slowdown in
continental Europe which we hope will
be short-lived. Our Asia desk was
successful in assisting sales in Europe to
Chinese buyers. This activity continues,
subject to the more stringent close
capital constraints.
Our consultancy activities have been
successfully expanded into both the
Chairman’ s statement
“The result for the year was reflective of an
encouraging recovery after a challenging
first half”.  dental and pharmacy sectors. Briefs
included ‘whole of market’ reviews 
in order to place specific portfolio
acquisition and development
opportunities in context.
Valuation instructions increased by 12%.
Additionally, we received instructions 
to assist lenders to comply with the
European banking regulation which
requires triennial review of the values of
assets which support existing bank loans.
We also assisted clients to access actual
and consequential losses in instances
where it is accepted that they had been
wrongly deprived of trading assets.
Christie Finance enjoyed another good
year with increasing involvement in
higher value loans. Indeed, further to the
launch of Christie Finance Corporate, the
business is now mandated on a number
of sizeable lending projects, illustrating
its increasing ability to serve a diverse
range of corporate clients, including
private equity houses. Affirming its
growing stature, the business won the
Commercial Mortgage Introducer of the
Year award at the Business MoneyFacts
awards for the second successive year .
As ever, our insurance business Christie
Insurance enjoyed some challenging
assignments. The end product of
insurance is claims and for Christie
Insurance this is the acid test of the
products and insurers they recommend.
During the year one client suffered
water damage to one of their buildings
and the client had inadvertently failed to
advise their insurers the buildings were
unoccupied, resulting in an exclusion of
the required water damage cover .
Despite this, Christie Insurance was
successful in persuading the insurer to
pay out on a large part of the costs their
client incurred.
Pinders, our business appraisal and
building services business, has covered
some interesting assignments in
addition to its normal business valuation
work. Most notably these included an
Insurance Reinstatement Assessment
for a thirteenth century Grade I Listed
Castle and Building and Services
Condition Surveys for a tranche of 
ten Hilton Hotels. Alongside these
successes, Pinders’ renowned database
and depth of knowledge has brought
expert witness work where Pinders is
required to establish the historic values
of business when a dispute arises.
Stock & Inventory Systems & Services
As previously reported, the introduction
of the National Living Wage meant that
at a stroke, our retail counters were
rewarded at a higher level. As a result,
we increased prices, but there was 
a small drag effect due to timing of
contractual review dates. Whilst
turnover was flat in our Retail division,
we have adjusted the work specification
or value of counts in order to retain 
our margin. In fact, we are now seeing
‘win backs’ where customers had
previously chased price over competence
and have now come back to Christie.
Our supply chain service is active 
in growing its ‘good faith receiving’ 
audits which are becoming increasingly
established practice in retail supply.
Internationally, our operations in
Benelux and France have already
secured sufficient assignments to
underpin profitability there in 2017,
whilst current work trials in Germany
hold out a similar prospect for later 
in the year .
Our licensed trade business, Venners,
continued to grow market share and
existing clients awarded us work for
further brands. Venners new Brand
Reputation offering has been
enthusiastically received by those which
have or wish to franchise hospitality
brands. Venners ensures that the
operator conforms to the brand service
standards throughout each trading
outlet through an agreed schedule of
visits and, on occasion, unannounced.
Vennersys has achieved the goal of
readying its SAAS (‘Software As A
Service’) model for ‘go lives’ in 2017. 
We remain in a period of intense activity
as many visitor attractions are seasonal
and open at either Easter or for the
summer months. Once over the ‘hump’
of these existing client conversions, we
will be able to accommodate our new
business pipeline on a more rapid basis.
We anticipate, with minor exceptions,
being able to switch off our legacy
systems at this year end. This will
reduce duplicated help desk traffic.
Outlook
The year for both our divisions has
started more strongly than in 2016. 
We have some inflationary costs to
absorb which our budgets allow for .
Your management and staff alike strive
to always deliver a service that is second
to none, and on your behalf I thank
them. We plan for continued growth in
2017. Your board’s enthusiasm for the
unique and logically related Group of
companies that constitute your business
continues unabated.
Reflecting this optimism, your directors
recommend a final dividend of 1.5p per
share (2015: 1.5p), maintaining a total of
2.5p for the year (2015: 2.5p). If approved
the dividend will be paid on 7 July 2017
to those shareholders on the register on
9 June 2017.
Philip Gwyn
Chairman
31 March 2017 
Christie Group Annual Report 2016 3
“The year for both our divisions has 
started more strongly than in 2016. 
We plan for continued growth in 2017.” 
