 4 Christie Group Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’ s review Chief Executive’ s review
Stability and long-term growth
Continuing geopolitical uncertainty, 
not least Brexit, made professional
investors more cautious in 2016 and this
limited liquidity in our markets. Despite
these constraints, the Group managed
to grow revenue slightly to £64.5m
(2015: £63.7m). Operating profit before
exceptional items was lower, at £1.0m
(2015: £3.8m). However, our second half
held up with an operating profit before
exceptionals in the second six months of
the year of £1.9m (2015: £2.0m).
Especially in the corporate segment,
both buyers and sellers marked 
time in the run-up to the June
referendum. In the immediate
aftermath, the surprise nature of the
result acted as a short-term brake,
but investors adapted swiftly and soon
re-engaged. Transaction volumes
rebounded in the last four months 
of the year .
The pause in market activity in the 
run-up to Brexit could be anticipated; 
it resulted in a revenue shortfall in the
first half of 2016. The board took the
view that our long-term interests were
better served by continuing to invest in
our businesses and brands. This meant
the Group operated with surplus
capacity for much of the year . The
resulting higher overheads had an
impact on our overall profitability.
Historically, our business has
prospered by focusing decision-making
on medium-term outcomes and the
fundamentals in our chosen sectors.
The stability of our shareholder base
has played a key role in this, helping to
ensure we are not deflected from our
core purpose of achieving sustainable,
long-term growth. 
Focus, flexibility and resilience
There are Christie Group services at
every stage of the business lifecycle. 
We value businesses for prospective
buyers and support acquisitions by
arranging debt finance and insurance
cover . Our inventory and stock planning
services enhance operational efficiency.
We provide expert advice and services 
to help those selling businesses
maximise their value.
Our organisational structure underpins
our resilience across the economic
cycle. We derive more predictable
earnings from services that enhance
operational efficiency. Our transaction-
related services tend to be more
profitable in active markets. 
Our transaction-linked business is 
well diversified. We engage right across
our sectors, from smallest to largest,
serving both private clients and the
corporate market. So when professional
markets were subdued in the first half
of 2016 we continued to conclude
transactions with private clients. It
demonstrates once again the merits 
of a balanced group structure with a
wide-ranging portfolio of interests.
Understanding our sectors in depth 
is key. We acquire detailed business
intelligence by focusing on three broad
economic sectors: Retail, Care –
including Medical and Childcare &
Education – and Leisure. We store and
share sector-specific knowledge across
the Group to optimise our services.
Business intelligence has always been
at the foundation of our offering. We aim
“Transactions volumes rebounded in the
last four months of the year as investors
re-engaged.” Christie Group Annual Report 2016 5
to deliver high-quality service and
advice that commands premium pricing
and is less likely to be undercut by cost-
driven competitors. It is an approach
that suits clients’ needs in the
knowledge economy.
Our business is built around our clients.
As sector specialists, we understand the
dynamics of their markets and their
businesses. We can propose precisely
targeted, practical solutions. 
Professional Business Services
One recent market dynamic is the
emergence of service businesses as 
a popular class of alternative asset. 
Alternative assets have moved into the
mainstream in recent years as investors
have realised that certain financial risks
cannot be properly addressed using
traditional assets. Institutional investors
are including business assets and
sector holdings in their portfolios. 
In the manufacturing sector opportunities
are limited. New technologies, like
Artificial Intelligence, robotics and 3D
printing, are radically reducing fixed
costs. Smart manufacturers can grow
their businesses without major capital
infusions. This is freeing up capital to be
invested elsewhere. 
Investors are targeting businesses in
our sectors. Fund managers, private
equity houses and management
companies are constructing sector-
based portfolios. They are buying care
homes, hotels, pubs and restaurants as
income-generating assets with built-in
inflation protection.
Take children’s day care. Christie & Co
has been growing its presence here for
more than a decade. The sector was
once dominated by family-led start-ups.
Through government funding of
childcare provision, it is now
approaching critical mass. There is 
an influx of new capital: private equity
houses are building regional and
national networks.
Christie & Co has the experience, scale
and capabilities to support corporate
investors in this and other sectors. 
Our professional guidance and sector-
specific expertise can add considerable
value for buyers with limited operational
experience. We can call on detailed
knowledge to build valuations, develop
acquisition strategies and launch sales
campaigns. We tailor our services to
each client. 
We are also reaching out to private
clients. First-time buyers, by definition,
are less likely to have had dealings with
us in the past. We are finding new ways
to connect with them so we can address
their requirements more effectively.
We raised our visibility in the private
client market this year by listing
business properties on a leading
consumer-facing property search
engine. We now have more business
listings on rightmove.co.uk than any
other agency. This generates a steady
stream of enquiries.
Building sector knowledge
Knowledge is a key differentiator across
the Group. We have been formalising our
processes for amassing and harvesting
this knowledge. Our consultancy division
conducts research, prepares sector-
based strategic reviews and publishes
thought-leadership pieces to assist clients,
while shining a light on our sectors and
informing our own positioning. 
In 2016, it followed up an earlier report
on the UK nursing workforce by 
“We have the experience, scale and capabilities 
to support corporate investors and we’re finding
new ways to connect with private clients.” 
Christie & Co’s report on the Adult Social
Care sector (above) was just one of a
number of research publications, sector-
based strategic reviews and thought
leadership pieces which demonstrate the
depth of knowledge we can harness to add
value for our clients. examining funding for care services.
This analysed the funding needs for
elderly and specialist care at over 
200 leading operators and every local
council in the UK. It also produced
strategic reports identifying trends
and market dynamics for hotels, pubs,
restaurants and the convenience sector . 
Another 2016 consultancy assignment
surveyed the dental sector for a
prospective investor . Its detailed
intelligence on the size, dynamics and
structure of the sector gave this client 
a solid base for assessing acquisitions. 
We make use of data analytics to mine
for industry-specific and wider economic
data. A market-leading data analytics
tool was used extensively in 2016. It
yielded valuable insights into the hotel,
pub and restaurant, and medical sectors. 
Pinders is a hub of expertise. Its views
are frequently sought out by banks,
operators, developers and investors. It is
regularly called on in dispute resolution
cases and as an expert witness. Actual
and potential lenders and owners
consult it on what revenues to expect
and how to develop their business.
Clients receive detailed sector and
business appraisals. They can get
informed, in-depth advice for all kinds 
of business situations, including, in
2016, managing a crematorium and
maximising the use and value of an
indoor bowling centre.
Christie Finance has been gaining
traction as a specialist broker . Its strong
sector expertise attracts independent
enquiries as well as introductions
through Christie & Co. Private equity
houses in particular appreciate its
intermediation skills. It is increasingly
involved in larger transactions. Christie
Insurance continues to work closely
with partner companies to forge
profitable client connections and deliver
bespoke insurance cover .
Internationalisation
Christie & Co has won an international
reputation for its professionalism and
high-quality services. It supports
international transactions through its
branches across Europe in 16 cities and
through the Asia desk, based in London
and Shanghai. Our long-term objective
is to become the leading pan-European
advisor in our chosen sectors.
The post-Brexit fall in sterling has 
made UK companies more attractive 
for overseas investors. The Asia desk
has been working very successfully
alongside our corporate teams in
advising Asian investors who want to
take advantage of current preferential
currency rates.
There is a two-way flow of business 
in the educational sector . Investors 
are looking at British educational
institutions not just as assets, but as
potential international brands. British
education has a strong reputation
globally. There are receptive markets 
in parts of the Middle East and Asia for
UK educational brands and expertise. 
Stock and Inventory Systems 
and Services
The fallout from the Brexit vote may
raise challenges for our stock and
inventory businesses. 
No one yet knows how the UK’s
immigration controls will operate in
future. We currently enjoy the support 
of colleagues from 23 nations. We
anticipate more help from non-EU
countries in future.
Our stock taking businesses employ the
latest technology, but they also rely 
6 Christie Group Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review 
continued
The successful brokerage of the sale of 
one of Croatia’s most prominent hotel
complexes – the Radisson Blu Sun Gardens
in Dubrovnik – by Christie & Co to a Chinese
investor, highlighted the attraction of
European assets to Asian investors, with
whom Christie & Co’s Shanghai & London
based Asia desk are building increasingly
successful connections. Christie Group Annual Report 2016 7
heavily on the people in the field. We
strive to both train and incentivise 
our colleagues to create a culture of
excellence, enthusiasm and respect.
Flexible hours contracts are sometimes
criticised, but in our experience these
kinds of arrangements can often be 
very successful. Low staff turnover 
at Venners and Orridge suggests that
this pattern of working suits people’s
lifestyles. Indeed, some casual counters
have stayed with Orridge for more than
two decades. 
Counter costs rose again with the
introduction of the national living wage
in April. This followed minimum wage
and pension legislation in previous
years. We have increased our UK
charge-out rates correspondingly.
The market dynamics in the retail sector
present clear growth opportunities for
Orridge’s supply chain division. More
and more physical retailers are turning
themselves into bricks-and-clicks
businesses. These depend on cohesive,
well-ordered supply chains. To manage
that effectively they need real-time
information on stock availability and
replenishment. Because physical
checks need to be conducted on a
continuous basis and the counters can
be based full-time at a warehouse or
supplier distribution centre, there are
savings in travel time and resource
management.
Equally, we are pursuing with vigour 
our Pharmacy stocktaking services. 
We have received a record of excellence
since 1846, but still see growth potential.
Venners has successfully changed its
culture to reflect shifting market
dynamics. The big brewers are no
longer dominant. The Pubs Code 
regulations which came into force in
May have tilted the balance of power
away from the Pubcos. The sector has
more diverse players and increased
participation by private equity. 
Venners has developed strong sales and
marketing capabilities to meet the new
challenges posed by this changed
landscape. It has developed a broader
range of services. It is no longer seen 
as a loss reducer, but as a business
partner capable of adding value and
enhancing profitability. 
Brand reputation is an example of an
area its activities add value. Brand
owners want to be sure that franchisees
are meeting their standards and
guidelines. Venners compliance audits
check activity against contractual
requirements and brand
recommendations.
Operational consultancy services at
both Orridge and Venners contribute to
client profitability. They prepare stock
plans for retailers, licence owners and
others that highlight demand for certain
stock categories. They propose what
should be in stock, when, where 
and at what price point. Invariably,
businesses adopting their
recommendations see measurable
improvements in trading results. 
Vennersys remains on track in its
development of a highly scalable
attractions system with global potential.
Venpos Cloud went online for new users
during 2016. It is now migrating major
existing users to the Cloud in a
programmed way to ensure all existing
functionality is on the new platform. 
We provide an integrated on-site and
online solution for the user . Our own
return is based upon an attractive
recurrent revenue model.
Responding to change
Technology and competitive forces are
changing market dynamics in many 
of our sectors. We respond to that by
stressing light-touch management 
that retains control but encourages
responsibility and self-reliance across
the Group. We also need to bring new
people in and get them up to speed
quickly. To that end, we have enhanced
our online training capabilities right
across the Group. This is helping to
build up our knowledge base in a more
controlled fashion and in a way that
recent intakes find more convenient.
Looking ahead
The pick-up in sales towards the end 
of 2016 continued into the new year . 
We entered 2017 with a strong pipeline
across our business. 
As underlying market trends re-establish
themselves we are poised to benefit. 
With capacity already in place we can
take on more business without incurring
significant extra costs. It means further
revenue growth is likely to result in
higher operating profit returns as we
benefit from our operational gearing.
Yet geopolitical uncertainties remain.
The UK and Europe are entering a very
complex period. There will be bumps on
the road. With that caveat, we anticipate
improved performance in 2017. 
David Rugg
Chief Executive
31 March 2017 
“The pick-up in sales towards the end of 2016
continued into the new year, though the UK
and Europe are entering a complex period.” 
Christie Group Annual Report 2016 7
