 Chief Executive’s review
Following the receipt of disappointing phase III allergy 
results in June last year, we worked hard to strengthen our 
commercial 	 plat f or m 	 and 	 respir ator y 	 por t f olio . 	 W e 	 ha v e	
substantially increased sales of our market-leading NIOX
®
 
asthma management products and recently completed 
a transformational transaction with AstraZeneca to 
commercialise the COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease) products Tudorza
®
 and Duaklir
®
	 in 	 the 	 Unit ed 	 Stat es.	
We also broadened our respiratory pipeline, adding three 
earlier -stage 	 COP D 	 products. 	 In 	 addition, 	 w e 	 maintained	
a resolute focus on costs, while continuing to invest in our 
commercial 	 infr astr uct ure 	 as 	 a 	 str at egic 	 gro w th 	 plat f or m.	
Following disappointing results from our house dust mite 
allergy 	 field 	 st udy , 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 tak en 	 the 	 difficult 	 decision 	 
to 	 cur tail 	 in v estment 	 in 	 our 	 allergy 	 progr ammes.	
With 	 thes e 	 s ignifican t 	 de v elopmen t s 	 no w 	 behind 	 us , 	 w e 	 look	
forward to the coming year with optimism. We have built a strategic 
asset in our direct specialty sales infrastructure, which we plan to 
strengthen further as we accelerate our commercial collaboration 
with AstraZeneca. We also intend to advance our other respiratory 
products, as well as pursuing additional in-licensing and acquisition 
opportunities to expand our commercial portfolio. As a result, we are 
increasingly well positioned to achieve our ambition of becoming  
a world-class, self-sustaining specialty pharmaceutical business.
Setbacks and opportunities
The 	 pa s t 	 y ear 	 ha s 	 been 	 a 	 period 	 o f 	 s ignifican t 	 change , 	 with 	 the	
Company resolutely pursuing opportunities to extend its commercial 
reach, portfolio of marketed products and development pipeline 
following the disappointment of our allergy phase III results in the 
middle of 2016. The whole team responded highly professionally  
t o 	 thi s 	 s e t ba ck , 	 c ut t ing 	 co s t s 	 a cr o ss 	 the 	 bus iness , 	 r e f oc us ing 	 e ff or t s 	
on our respiratory portfolio and recently completing a transformational 
commercial collaboration with AstraZeneca. 
S ign ifica n t 	 co mmer cia l 	 p r o gr es s
Since the beginning of 2016 we have made good commercial 
progress, expanding our presence in key markets and growing  
sales of our NIOX
®
 products. Building a strong platform in the  
United States was crucial to attracting AstraZeneca as a commercial 
partner, and with the transaction now complete we are becoming 
increasingly positioned as a partner-of-choice for products requiring 
focused specialty commercial expertise. As part of our AstraZeneca 
collaboration we will further grow our US infrastructure, doubling our 
existing sale force to 200, supported by a strong team of marketing, 
operations, key accounts and managed market specialists.  
This infrastructure is a strategic asset that is rare outside  
‘big pharma’, and provides us with a platform for further growth. 
With the challenges of 2016 now behind us, 
we are focused on building a world-leading 
specialty pharmaceutical business, and are 
making progress towards this goal 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2016 16 Pipeline development
Despite the disappointment of our allergy results we have worked  
hard to build and broaden our pipeline. During the year we added 
three new COPD products to our portfolio, including a novel  
tiotropium formulation targeting direct substitution of the market 
leading long-acting muscarinic antagonist, Spiriva Handihaler
®
.  
We recently complemented these products as part of our  
transaction with AstraZeneca, which brought us the US  
commercial rights to the phase III COPD treatment Duaklir
®
. 
O pe r a t i ona l 	 e ffic i e n c y
In parallel with our commercial and pipeline expansion, we have 
taken robust measures to contain costs and conserve our resources. 
Following the receipt of our allergy phase III results we curtailed major 
e xpend itur e 	 in 	 the 	 field , 	 immed ia t ely 	 halt ing 	 our 	 gr a ss 	 and 	 r a gw eed	
allergy development programmes. We have now gone further, 
stopping our investment in allergy as we focus on our respiratory 
portfolio. In parallel, we closed our Solna and Chicago sites as well  
as one of our Oxford facilities, and rationalised our R&D and back 
o ffice 	 t eam s . 	 As 	 a 	 r es ult , 	 w e 	 r e tain 	 a 	 s tr ong 	 balance 	 shee t , 	 with 	 
a cash position of £1 17 .4 million, and remain fully funded to deliver  
on our strategy. 
Optimistic outlook
With the challenges of 2016 now behind us, we are focused  
on building a world-leading specialty pharmaceutical business,  
and are making progress towards this goal. We are working hard  
to rapidly expand our US sales force as we take over the promotion 
of Tudorza
®
 in this major market, and at the same time we look 
forward to completing preparations to move several of our respiratory 
pr oduc t s 	 in t o 	 the 	 c l inic . 	 In 	 the 	 coming 	 mon th s , 	 w e 	 hope 	 t o 	 fi nal i s e	
the commercial approach in Europe for our lead asthma treatment, 
Fliveo
®
, which is already approved in the UK, while also pursuing 
opportunities to out-license non-strategic products as we focus 
our development resources on our direct substitute and specialty 
respiratory products. With much progress made in a short period  
of time we are regaining ground, and consequently we face the  
future with optimism as we emerge from the challenges of 2016. 
Steven Harris
Chie f 	 E x ec ut iv e 	 Officer
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2016 17
