 Chairman’s statement
The past year, and in particular the last ten months, has 
been a period of great change with Circassia experiencing 
significant 	 challenges 	 as 	 w ell 	 as 	 major 	 oppor t unities. 	 While 	
disappointing phase III allergy results tested the Company’s 
resilience, I am pleased to report that swift action helped 
conserve shareholders’ funds, broaden the development 
portfolio and establish a transformational commercial 
collabor ation 	 with 	 Astr a Zeneca . 	 With 	 results 	 from 	 the	
Company’s house dust mite allergy study mirroring the earlier 
cat 	 allergy 	 phase 	 III 	 data , 	 the 	 Boar d 	 has 	 tak en 	 the 	 difficult 	
decision 	 to 	 cease 	 fur ther 	 in v estment 	 in 	 the 	 field 	 and 	 to 	 f ocus 	
Circassia ’ s 	 resources 	 on 	 its 	 respir ator y 	 por t f olio . 	 With 	 much	
progress made in a short period of time, the Company is now 
building 	 positiv e 	 moment um 	 across 	 its 	 wider 	 business.	
Robust strategy 
Since its establishment, Circassia’s strategy has focused on building  
a world-class specialty pharmaceutical business, directly 
commercialising its products in key markets and developing a broad 
and balanced portfolio. During 2015, the Company accelerated this 
strategy, acquiring a direct specialty sales capability in the US and 
Germany and broadening its pipeline to include a number of respiratory 
products. Following the allergy results in 2016, the Board revisited 
this strategy to ensure the Company continues to focus on building 
shareholder value. 
This strategic review considered multiple approaches, and ultimately 
c onc l ud ed 	 t h a t 	 C i r ca s s i a ’ s 	 s t r a t egy 	 c on t i n ued 	 t o 	 o ff er 	 t he 	 be s t 	 o p por t un it y	
to exploit the Company’s commercial infrastructure and pipeline assets. 
The Board considered options to accelerate self-sustainability and 
determined that expansion of the Company’s commercial capabilities 
w o u ld 	 o ff er 	 bo t h 	 r e v en ue 	 gr o w t h 	 o p por t un it i e s 	 and 	 a 	 s t r a t eg i c 	 p l a t f orm	
with which to attract third-party products. In parallel, out-licensing  
o ut - o f - f oc u s 	 p i pe l i ne 	 a s s e t s , 	 f oc u s i n g 	 R &D 	 e ff or t s 	 and 	 d rivi n g	 
e ffi c i enc i e s 	 w o u ld 	 r ed uc e 	 c o s t s 	 and 	 he l p 	 c on s er v e 	 r e s o ur c e s .	
Rapid action
Following the review, management acted quickly to implement this 
strategy, expanding the Company’s commercial presence, driving 
e ffic ienc ies 	 a cr o ss 	 the 	 or gani sa t ion , 	 c ur tai l ing 	 al ler gy 	 in v es tmen t 	 
and halting the development of out-of-focus products. The Company 
also added three novel formulations to its respiratory pipeline, initiated 
negotiations for the return of EU rights to its lead asthma treatment 
and established a transformational commercial collaboration with 
AstraZeneca. 
Following the setbacks of 2016, Circassia is 
looking forward with optimism as it builds its 
revenues and advances its pipeline of promising 
respiratory treatments 
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2016 12 As 	 a 	 r es ult 	 o f 	 thi s 	 r apid 	 a c t ion , 	 C ir ca ss ia ’ s 	 s ignifican t ly 	 enhanced	
commercial capability was an important factor in attracting 
AstraZeneca as a valued partner. During 2016, the Company doubled 
its sales force in its largest market, the United States, and as part of its 
new commercial collaboration will double this team again by the end  
of July 2017 . In 2016, Circassia also launched a direct sales team in  
the UK and strengthened its commercial teams in Germany and China. 
In parallel, the Company’s market-leading NIOX
®
 asthma management 
products enjoyed robust sales growth and its pipeline now features 
additional chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) treatments. 
Thes e 	 adv ances 	 w er e 	 complemen t ed 	 by 	 s ignifican t 	 e ffic ienc y 	 savings , 	
with the Company’s facilities costs set to decrease by approximately 
40% next year and headcount reduced outside the commercial team.
Leveraging infrastructure
With 	 it s 	 commer c ial 	 in fr a s tr uc tur e 	 no w 	 fi r mly 	 es tabl i shed , 	 C ir ca ss ia	
is well positioned to commercialise its in-house portfolio as well as 
third-party specialty products. The Company’s respiratory pipeline 
targets a large and growing market, and is well positioned to leverage 
Circassia’s commercial platform with specialist treatments exploiting 
its direct sales capabilities and substitute therapies that do not require 
s ignifican t 	 pr omo t ion 	 us ing 	 it s 	 d i s tri but ion , 	 s upply 	 chain 	 and 	 mar k e t	
access expertise. 
This commercial strategy was recently validated by the Company’s 
collaboration with AstraZeneca, in which Circassia will undertake 
the US promotion of COPD treatments Tudorza
®
 and Duaklir
®
, once 
approved. With this transaction transforming Circassia into a world-
class specialty respiratory business, the Company is well positioned 
t o 	 a t tr a ct 	 fur ther 	 pr oduc t s 	 tha t 	 can 	 bene fit 	 fr om 	 it s 	 highly 	 f oc us ed	
commercial capabilities. 
Board changes
As well as the changes to the Company, Circassia’s Board has  
also evolved. During 2016, Paul Edick and Cathrin Petty retired  
as Non-Executive Directors, and as announced alongside the 
preliminary results Tim Corn and Charles Swingland have informed 
the Company that after serving for over 10 years they will retire at 
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. Each of these Directors 
has provided invaluable counsel and strategic advice based on 
long-standing industry experience, and we thank them all for their 
contribution to the progress made by Circassia. Following the addition 
of two new independent Directors during 2015, the Board remains 
s tr ong , 	 with 	 fiv e 	 Non - E x ec ut iv e 	 and 	 thr ee 	 E x ec ut iv e 	 members .	 
The Board will continue to review its mix of skills and experience to 
ensure an optimal composition, both overall and of its Committees.
Positive outlook
Following the disappointment of the phase III allergy results in June 2016, 
Circassia has worked to refocus and broaden its business. After a period 
of consolidation and rebuilding, the Company is positioned for strong 
growth as it builds momentum in both its commercial and development 
portfolios. During the coming year, Circassia anticipates further progress 
with the Company capitalising on its asthma management products’ 
market-leading position, focused promotion of its partnered COPD 
treatment Tudorza
®
 and pursuit of opportunities to commercialise 
additional products through its specialty infrastructure. In addition, the 
Company plans to conclude discussions on the EU rights to its lead 
asthma treatment, expand its NIOX
®
 registrations in the US and Europe 
and prepare two new novel COPD formulations to enter the clinic. 
Following the setbacks of 2016, Circassia is looking forward with 
optimism as it builds its revenues and advances its pipeline of 
promising respiratory treatments. As a result, I believe the Company  
is increasingly well positioned to achieve its ambition of becoming  
a world-class, self-sustaining specialty pharmaceutical company. 
Dr Francesco Granata
Chairman
Circassia Pharmaceuticals plc Annual report and accounts 2016 13
