 STRATEGIC REPORT  u
4
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Anthony Bloom
Chairman (right)
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer (left)
Chairman’s Statement
Overview
I am pleased to report that 2016 was another record year 
for the Cineworld Group (the “Group”) and its shareholders. 
We achieved an important milestone – over 100 million 
people came through our doors to watch a movie. I would 
have found this inconceivable when we started the 
Company with one multiplex in Stevenage in 1996! 
Group EBITDA for the year increased by 13.2% to £175.8m 
(2015: £155.3m), on revenue which improved by 13.0% to 
£797.8m (2015: £705.8m). Statutory profit after tax 
increased by 0.9% to £82.0m (2015: £81.3m). 
We achieved this strong growth in EBITDA as a result of the 
full impact of our new cinemas which opened in 2015, the 
completed refurbishments of a number of our important 
cinemas, the acquisition of five Empire cinemas and the 
ongoing operating efficiencies which are constantly sought 
and implemented across the Group. All of these factors 
resulted in increased admissions, particularly in the ROW 
territories. Operating in nine different countries provides 
geographic diversification and a range of opportunities in 
both mature and growth markets. 
The Group’s Balance Sheet remains strong. Although there 
was a slight rise in net debt to £282.3m (due to the Empire 
acquisition and impact of foreign exchange movements on 
the Euro Term loans), the EBITDA to net debt ratio at the 
year end remained at 1.6 times. This Balance Sheet strength, 
together with the gratifying operating performance of the 
Group enabled the Board to declare an increased full year 
dividend of 19.0p per share, which represents 8.6% growth. 
The Group has increased its dividend in seven out of the  
10 years since it was listed, an achievement of which I am 
particularly proud.
In 2016 we successfully completed the acquisition of five 
Empire cinemas, including the iconic Empire Leicester 
Square. Pleasingly we were able to fulfil our long-held 
objective of obtaining a prestigious West End site. Together 
the five Empire sites added 64 additional screens to our 
circuit. Along with expansion, renovation and modernisation 
of the existing circuit is of equal importance to us, ensuring 
that we have high quality, well-designed, modern cinemas 
across the whole estate. During 2016 we completed nine 
major refurbishments and the improvement in operating 
performance at those sites is already evident. 
Shareholders will be pleased to know that we lead the way 
in offering the latest technology. We are the only operators 
of 4DX in the UK, a format proving increasingly popular  
with our customers. The first one opened in London at our 
Wandsworth site in December, and as part of the planned 
refurbishment of the Empire Leicester Square we intend to 
introduce 4DX. At the end of 2016 we had 27 4DX screens, 
33 IMAX screens and six of our own Superscreen formats.  STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 5
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
In 2016, over 100 million 
people came through 
our doors to watch a 
movie – a fantastic 
milestone for the 
Group.”
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
Martina for the energy and rigour that she brought to the 
Board during a period which has seen the Group expand 
considerably, both in the UK and internationally. Martina 
made a significant contribution to our affairs, and I wish 
her every success in her other ventures. 
Nisan Cohen was appointed as CFO and joined the Board as 
an Executive Director. Nisan is a member of the Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants in Israel and has been part of 
the Cineworld Group, and formerly the Cinema City Group 
for 16 years. As Vice President of Finance, he led the 
integration of the finance teams in the Group across nine 
territories after the combination between Cineworld and 
Cinema City International N.V. Lately, he served as Deputy 
CFO, working closely with the then interim CFO, Dean 
Moore. I have had the pleasure of working with Nisan since 
the combination with Cinema City in 2014 and have no 
doubt that his extensive experience, both commercial and 
financial, will continue to be an asset to the Group. 
Dean Moore, the previous interim CFO, was appointed to 
the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director, 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the 
Audit Committee. Dean brings over 20 years of experience 
as a plc executive Director. The Board is satisfied that 
Dean meets the requisite criteria to be considered as 
independent, notwithstanding his brief ten month interim 
employment with the Group, during which his mandate was 
to focus primarily on the CFO succession planning process. 
I look forward to continuing to work with Nisan and Dean in 
their new roles. 
As a Board we take corporate governance standards 
extremely seriously and we always strive to attain the 
highest standards possible. We periodically review areas 
such as gender, diversity, health and safety and the 
environment and where appropriate improve our practices 
in those areas. 
On behalf of myself and the Board I would like to express 
my sincere appreciation to the Group’s executive 
management and all its employees for their continued hard 
work, competence, professionalism and their gratifying 
achievements during 2016. 
Outlook 
As we go into 2017, I look forward with confidence. There is 
a strong film release programme planned for the year. We 
have an excellent estate which will continue to grow (with a 
further 13 cinemas due to open this year), and number of 
major refurbishments planned. We have a strong Balance 
Sheet and can undertake our strategic objectives without 
financial strain. We are at the forefront of providing the 
latest technology to our customers and most importantly of 
all we have an excellent management team with extensive 
experience which is focused on ensuring Cineworld is 
always “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
Anthony Bloom
Chairman
9 March 2017
The wellbeing of our staff is fundamental to the efficient 
operation of the business. Without them we would not be 
able operate 2,115 screens in 226 sites, as we did at the end 
of 2016. This is not a trivial task – we show over 10,000 
movies every day, every week across nine different 
territories. The logistics involved are formidable and rely on 
highly motivated and dedicated staff. Accordingly, internal 
promotion and succession planning is a key part of our 
people strategy. 
We are currently scheduled to open a further 441 screens 
over the next four years – 264 of which are in the ROW 
territories and 177 in the UK. This expansion will be financed 
from internally generated funds and will provide excellent 
growth potential in the future. 
In summary, we went from strength to strength in 2016 and  
I believe we will continue to do so in 2017 and provide 
significant value to our shareholders. 
Board
There were no changes to the Board during 2016; however 
on 11 January 2017, after the year end three changes 
took place. 
Martina King, Non-Executive Director, Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit 
Committee, stepped down following six years of service to 
focus on her other business interests. I would like to thank 
