 STRATEGIC REPORT  u
6
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
can enjoy unlimited buffet food, popcorn and soft drinks 
before watching the movie in a dedicated auditorium with 
luxurious reclining seats. Three new VIP sites were opened 
during the year in Glasgow Renfrew Street (UK), Beer Sheva 
(Israel) and Bucharest Titan (Romania). At 31 December 
2016 we had nine VIP auditoriums in the Group. 
Our membership schemes, the most significant being the 
Cineworld Unlimited programme, continue to provide our 
customers with a range of benefits, and are one of the pillars 
of our strategy for growing revenues and admissions. The 
schemes also bring operational benefits by encouraging 
repeat visits, often at off-peak times. The Unlimited 
programme was launched in Poland at the end of 2015 
and has performed in line with expectations during 2016. 
We also focused attention on our wider communities – the 
Group undertakes a range of activities and initiatives with 
charities, schools, and community groups. As an example, 
part of our schools’ programme, included holding over 400 
education screenings on weekday mornings with a total of 
over 32,000 students attending from 450 different schools 
across the UK. Similar activities are also undertaken in each 
of our ROW territories. In 2016 for the first time we were a 
partner with BBC’s Children In Need fundraising initiative 
where we raised over £400,000. 
Cinema Expansion
Following the record number of 18 openings in 2015, we 
opened a further eight cinemas during 2016, four in the UK, 
(Yate, Loughborough, Dalton Park and Harlow) and four in 
the ROW, (Beer Sheva - Israel, Timisoara Nepi, Bucharest 
Titan and Piatra Neamt - Romania). We have a further 441 
screens scheduled to open in the next four years, 132 which 
are scheduled to open in 2017. New sites will be opened in 
both our growth markets in the ROW as well as in the more 
mature markets of the UK and Israel. Our growth markets 
still hold significant potential for the Group, as the culture 
of going to the cinema becomes more established and 
attendance increases with the rising standard of living. 
Our Strategy
During 2016, we have made great progress in delivering our 
strategy and vision to be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
We served over 100 million customers who came through our 
doors, and provided them with the choice of which movie to 
watch, the choice of format and the choice of an expanded 
range of retail offerings - all with great customer service. 
Our strategy is to: 
• Above all deliver a great cinema experience for all 
cinemagoers, every time;
• Expand our estate and look for profitable opportunities 
to grow – through consistent cash generation and our 
debt facility we have the financial strength to take 
advantage of opportunities which present themselves; 
• Enhance our existing estate and new sites, ensuring we 
deliver a consistently high quality offering across the 
Group – our refurbishment and construction programme 
is at the heart of achieving this; 
• Be leaders in the industry by offering customers the 
latest audio and visual technology – expanding the 
premium formats such as IMAX, 3D, 4DX, Superscreen 
and VIP auditoriums and ensuring we invest in the latest 
innovative technology; and
• Drive value for shareholders by delivering our growth 
plans in an efficient and effective way. 
Our main achievements in 2016 are summarised below. 
Customer Experience
Our cinemas now offer up to six different formats of how to 
watch movies; regular screens, 3D, 4DX, IMAX, Superscreen 
and VIP auditoriums. Through both our expansion and 
refurbishment programme, we are focused on ensuring as 
many of our sites as possible have a range of these choices 
for our customers. 
As well as developing our exhibition offerings and capacity, 
we continue to pay particular attention to our retail products 
and services. Our on-site concessions aim to be best in class, 
providing a variety of food, drink and snack options. During 
2016, the Group has increased the number of Starbucks coffee 
outlets in our cinemas in the UK, taking the total number to 
24 at 31 December 2016 with further outlets planned for 2017. 
We have expanded the number of VIP auditoriums where 
customers experience a premium offering from the moment 
they walk through the door. A VIP ticket includes access to a 
private lounge ahead of the movie screening where customers 
We want to provide our 
customers with choice –  
the choice of which movie  
to watch, the choice of how  
to watch a movie and the 
choice of retail offerings  
whilst always receiving  
great customer service.”
Moshe (Mooky) Greidinger
Chief Executive Officer STRATEGIC REPORT  u
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
 7
STRATEGIC REPORT  GOVERNANCE  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
We are also proud that many amongst our current Senior 
Management team have worked their way up into those 
positions after having started as trainees. 
Another key part of our people strategy is our fair wage 
policy – we are amongst the highest payers in the industry 
and we pay more than our statutory obligations, across all 
age groups and in all territories.
Value for Shareholders
The cash generative nature of our business underpins our 
business model. Our priorities for the use of our cash have 
remained consistent; to invest in the business to support 
organic growth in revenue and earnings, for selective 
merger and acquisition opportunities and to grow the 
dividend. During 2016 we have been able to reward 
shareholders with growth in both the dividend and adjusted 
diluted earnings per share, 8.6% and 16.8% respectively. The 
total full year dividend declared for 2016 is 19.0p 
(2015:17.5p). 
Future Outlook
As a management team we will continue to devote time and 
energy to assessing new site opportunities and potential 
acquisitions, identifying key sites for renovation and 
ensuring we provide the latest innovative technology to our 
customers. 
Looking forward, we are well positioned to continue 
delivering on our strategy in 2017. We have an excellent 
estate which is growing and constantly being upgraded 
where necessary to ensure the cinemas remain 
contemporary and of a high quality. We have a dedicated 
team who are focused on providing the best customer 
service and we are investing in the latest technology to 
maintain our position as leaders in the industry. In addition, 
there is an exciting film slate for 2017, which includes a 
number of sequels such as “Star Wars: Episode VIII”, 
“Despicable Me 3”, “Justice League”, “Paddington 2”, “Fast 
and Furious 8”, “Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No 
Tales”, “Transformers: The Last Knight” as well as new titles 
such as “Beauty and the Beast”, “Wonder Woman”, 
“Dunkirk”, “Coco” and many more. 
Whilst we remain cautious, we do not believe the expected 
exit of the UK from the European Union will have a 
significant impact on the underlying trading performance 
of the Group going forward based on the nature of our 
business which has a proven consumer appeal throughout 
all economic cycles.
As I have said before, teamwork is the secret of our success 
and the key to our future. Without our people we would not 
able to be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. I would like to 
take this opportunity to thank the whole Cineworld team for 
their continued hard work and dedication during 2016 and I 
look forward to working alongside them in 2017. 
Moshe Greidinger 
Chief Executive Officer
9 March 2017
During the year we announced the acquisition of the five 
Empire sites which has enabled the Group to increase 
its London presence, an area of the UK where we have 
previously been underrepresented. The Hemel Hempstead 
cinema was recently refurbished and is in line with our  
“new generation” style sites. In the near future we plan to 
also refurbish the Basildon and Poole sites. As the Bromley 
site is smaller, with four screens, we feel it is more 
appropriate to form part of the Picturehouse circuit. 
As we proactively focus on the management of our estate 
this may occasionally include closing specific sites where 
lease terms expire and it is not commercially beneficial 
or feasible to renew the lease. During 2016 we closed five 
sites, three in the UK, (Staples Corner, Hammersmith and 
Liverpool), one in Hungary, (Mammut), and one in Romania, 
(Arad GTC). 
Refurbishments
Our refurbishment programme was a key focus for 2016, 
with nine major refurbishments completed, six in the UK, 
(Stevenage, Glasgow Renfrew Street, Crawley, Cardiff, 
Wandsworth and Birmingham Broad Street) and three in 
the ROW (Polus and Au Park - Slovakia and Campona - 
Hungary). As previously highlighted, the UK estate is 
generally older than in the ROW and we will continue 
to renovate the estate further in 2017 to ensure all our  
cinemas are of the highest quality and equipped with the 
latest technology. 
Digital Film and Technological Innovation
We continued to expand the IMAX and 4DX formats across 
a selection of our sites. IMAX and 4DX are both extremely 
popular, especially for major releases such as “Star Wars: 
Rogue One” and “Fantastic Beasts and Where To Find 
Them”. In 2017 “Fast and Furious 8”, “Pirates of the 
Caribbean: Dead Men Tell No Tales”, “Transformers: The Last 
Knight” and “Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2” are expected to 
do well in both the IMAX and 4DX formats. We opened two 
IMAX screens during the year in Timisoara Nepi (Romania) 
and Beer Sheva (Israel) and also acquired three as part of 
the Empire acquisition in Basildon, Hemel Hempstead and 
Leicester Square. By the end of 2016, the Group was 
operating 33 IMAX screens in total and 27 4DX screens. 
Towards the end of 2016 new mobile applications were 
soft-launched to our customers across both Android and 
iOS platforms. The key features, as well as a new look and 
feel, were the ability to sign-up for Unlimited membership, 
and easier navigation to find tickets for performances 
across all of our formats. 
Our People 
Once again, 2016 saw considerable investment in people 
initiatives across the Group as we recognise that motivated 
and engaged people are pivotal to delivering our vision to 
be the “Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
Nurturing internal talent is a key part of our people strategy, 
and we are proud that over the last 12 months over 50% of 
cinema management positions have been filled by internal 
applicants. This success rate is underpinned by our regular 
training programmes and talent development reviews, 
which link directly to our learning and development offering. 
