 STRATEGIC REPORT  u
2
CINEWORLD GROUP PLC  | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
UK&I REVE NUE (£m)
+6.0%
494.0
465.9
2016 2015
ROW REVE NUE (£m)
+26.6%
303.8
239.9
2016 2015
UK&I ADMISSIONS (£m)
+1.8%
51.8
50.9
2016 2015
ROW ADMISSIONS (£m)
+13.6%
48.5
42.7
2016 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT  u
Cineworld is one of the UK’s leading cinema chains by admissions 
and box office revenues. The cinemas are modern, well designed 
multiplexes offering great customer service with high quality 
technology, stadium seating, and online ticketing services. The 
sites are situated mostly in leisure and retail parks. Cineworld 
shows a broad range of films to a large number of customers with 
a wide demographic and offers the highly successful “Unlimited” 
card which allows customers access to an unlimited number of 
films for a monthly subscription. Refurbishment of older sites, 
investment in new technologies and diversification of retail 
offerings are a key focus for Cineworld. During 2016 six sites were 
refurbished, four new cinema sites were opened and five Empire 
sites were acquired, including the iconic Empire Leicester Square. 
Cineworld is the only exhibitor in the UK to offer the highly 
successful 4DX experience, which includes motion seats, and 
several environmental effects such as water splash, wind, smell 
and more. These are built into an increasing number of movies to 
make the audience feel they are part of the action. At the end of 
2016, Cineworld operated nine 4DX screens including the first 
4DX in London which opened in December in Wandsworth. 
Cineworld also has 20 IMAX screens and its own Superscreen 
format. Two sites have VIP auditoriums which include a full movie 
and dining experience. Cineworld currently has 24 Starbucks 
coffee outlets within its circuit. 
Picturehouse is an arthouse chain which has a cosier 
atmosphere. It offers freshly-cooked food, bars and special 
events, which provides an alternative experience to the 
multiplexes. The sites generally have five screens or fewer and 
provide unique, local and intimate film viewing in cinemas that 
are both of high quality and of architectural merit. The flagship 
cinema is Picturehouse Central, located in Piccadilly which was 
fully renovated two years ago. It reopened as one of the most 
beautiful and special cinemas in London’s West End, and is 
equipped with the most advanced technology. It also has two 
unique restaurants and an exclusive Members Bar. Picturehouse 
operates in 13 towns and cities, with eight located in London 
‘villages’, and focuses on cinemagoers looking for art house 
movies and events side by side with mainstream commercial 
movies. Picturehouse has its own membership scheme which 
includes a range of benefits such as discounts on tickets and 
concession items, access to exclusive previews and special 
events, and more. The Picturehouse team works closely with 
independent movie creators and hosts movie festivals, and 
many other events. 
We are an international cinema chain operating in nine different 
territories with 226 sites and 2,115 screens. We are focused  
on providing our customers with the best possible cinema 
experience, offering a variety of movies, as well as different 
formats using the latest technologies. Our vision is always to  
be “The Best Place to Watch a Movie”. 
At a Glance
Our brands: UK and Ireland
971 Screens | 96 Sites 71 Screens | 22 Sites
