 2
Circle Property Plc 
Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 4 December 2015 to 31 March 2016
ROBUST BUSINESS 
PERFORMING IN LINE  
WITH EXPECT A TION
Chairman’s Statement
WELCOME TO  
OUR INAUGURAL 
REPORT.
On 16 February 2016, Circle Property Plc 
successfully listed on AIM with stock being 
taken up at a price of £1.49 which reflected the 
NAV with no discount. As expected, on 16 May 
2016 we were in position to pay a maiden dividend 
of 2.4p per share, based on performance to 31 
March 2016, the Company’s financial period end, 
while acknowledging that the Company had 
been in existence for a mere four months.
Despite the recent political and economic 
uncertainties, culminating in the United 
Kingdom’s decision to leave the European Union, 
the share price has proven to be remarkably 
resilient. This is largely as a result of our 
shareholders being long-term investors who 
share our confidence in the earnings’ potential 
of this quality commercial property portfolio and, 
as per our branding, our active investment 
within it. On 31 March 2016 the net asset value 
attributable to shareholders amounted to 
£43.2m translating into a net asset value per 
share of approximately £1.53.
The Executive team is well experienced in dealing 
with difficult times having successfully brought 
Circle Property Unit Trust through the market 
recession of 2008. Although our team is small 
they are working hard to identify the right 
opportunities and secure funding. We are 
delighted, although after the accounting period 
closed, to note that we have secured a significant 
line of debt funding from our bankers. I would like 
to thank the Royal Bank of Scotland for getting 
this facility in place, notwithstanding the 
turbulence created around the Brexit referendum.
The governance of the Company is evolving to 
match both changing regulation and the needs 
of the Company. We have established 
Remuneration and Audit Committees and deal 
with any nomination issues through the Board 
as a whole. I am confident that the Audit 
Committee has the requisite skills and the 
Remuneration Committee is focussed on 
rewarding fairly and motivating the Executive 
within constraints of the property improvement 
programme and a progressive dividend policy.
I am committed to ensuring the Company operates 
at the highest level of integrity and embraces the 
challenges of an ever-changing regulatory 
environment. We have prepared a policies and 
procedures manual for board approval which 
includes, but is not limited to, policies on Anti-
Bribery and Corruption, Gifts and Entertainment, 
Code of Conduct, Insider Dealing, Risk, Financial 
Procedures, Meetings, Whistleblowing and the 
additional requirements regarding the insider 
dealing rules via the Market Abuse Regulations 
which recently came into effect.
We are on budget and on target with our stated 
aims to enhance value through strategic 
acquisition in improving areas and to expend c 
£8m on capital improvements by actively 
investing in property. I thank the Board for its 
support and the Executive team for their energy 
and focus but, most importantly, I thank you the 
shareholders for backing our efforts and we will 
strive to reward that trust.
Ian Henderson
Non-Executive Chairman FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE Strategic report 
3
Circle Property Plc 
Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 4 December 2015 to 31 March 2016
“We are on budget and on target with our stated 
aims to enhance value through strategic 
acquisition in improving areas and to expend 
c£8m on capital improvements by actively 
investing in property. “
36 Great Charles Street, Birmingham
Somerset House, Temple Street, Birmingham
