 4
Circle Property Plc 
Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 4 December 2015 to 31 March 2016
CEO’s Review
CIRCLE PROPERTY PLC’S 
PRIMARY STRATEGY 
POST THE BREXIT VOTE 
REMAINS UNCHANGED; 
TO BUY AND 
REFURBISH REGIONAL 
OFFICE BUILDINGS IN 
LOCATIONS WHERE 
THERE IS GOOD 
DEMAND, BUT WHICH 
WILL BENEFIT FROM 
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 
TO SHOW ABOVE 
AVERAGE RETURNS 
FOR THE SECTOR.
The refinancing of our debt facility with RBS has 
improved our flexibility and reduced our interest 
charges, the benefit of which we expect to be 
passed on to our shareholders given our 
commitment to a progressive dividend policy. We 
are sure that income will continue to prevail as 
the key consideration by investors with NAV 
performance being a secondary driver. 
We will continue to advance and progressively 
let our three key developments in Milton Keynes 
and Birmingham all of which, when fully let, will 
contribute an additional £2m per annum to the 
rent roll to show a rental return on total cost 
approaching 10%. This level of return would not 
be achievable by buying those completed 
investments in the open market. We have a 
developer mentality but instead of selling the 
completed investments, they are retained and 
held within our investment portfolio. Valuation 
uplifts allow further advances from the RBS loan 
to facilitate further purchases.
We remain optimistic that the economy has the 
strength to withstand the short term stresses 
and strains imposed by the prospect of leaving 
the EU and that demand will continue for good 
quality offices at economic rents in the right 
locations. The media have focused attention on 
a relatively small number of funds that have 
down-valued their units overnight as a knee-jerk 
reaction to the post BREXIT political fallout 
rather than an economic collapse. We suspect 
that their actions were driven by a need to try 
and create some liquidity but this has 
heightened the sense of nervousness and 
accelerated the rush for the exit door.
Auction houses are often quoted as the 
barometers of the commercial property markets 
and after their successful auction on 7 July 2016 
Acquitus’ auctioneer, Richard Auterac, reported 
that; “There was no apparent difference in 
pricing between our pre and post Brexit 
auctions”. This is not to say that prices will 
continue to hold firm and we are mindful that 
there is a risk of contagion from property funds 
spreading to multi-asset funds and there may be 
some modest softening of property values at 
least in the short term, but are optimistic that 
internal progress within the portfolio should 
moderate or negate any downward pressure.
We continue to take a cautious approach and will 
be ensuring that our level of debt is contained or 
offset by valuation uplifts from elsewhere 
within the portfolio. Our letting agents confirm 
that although the level of enquiries were down 
in the lead up to the referendum, there is still 
unsatisfied occupational demand and viewings 
are continuing. We are also pleased to report 
that all of our tenants appear happy to remain in 
occupation and are renewing leases in line with 
our opinion of market rents. We expect that the 
markets will recover any lost ground over the 
remainder of the financial year which may prove 
to be a buying opportunity so we are poised, as 
ever, to make opportunistic acquisitions where 
the upside is evident and there is modest 
downside risk.
We have a number of “legacy” properties where 
we are carrying out lease re-gears or renewal 
negotiations prior to sale. The proceeds from 
these sales are anticipated to be at prices ahead 
of the valuations and will, in-part, fund our 
refurbishment programme.
The fundamentals for Circle Property Plc remain 
attractive, given the continuing strength in 
provincial offices which the Company holds at 
reversionary rents, principally let to strong 
covenants in prime locations and the more 
dynamic earnings generated by the 
developments in progress.
John Arnold
Chief Executive Officer
GROWING DEMAND  
DRIVES CONFIDENCE  
FOR THE FUTURE FINANCIALS GOVERNANCE Strategic report 
5
Circle Property Plc 
Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the period 4 December 2015 to 31 March 2016
Property is still in demand
Although the market drew breath in the lead up 
to Brexit and was slightly “winded” by the 
somewhat surprising outcome we are seeing 
a gradual resumption of normal working with 
occupiers continuing to sign leases and 
investors competing to buy buildings with a 
living yield. As gilt yields harden, property yields 
for longer let property should follow. Our share 
price reflects the strength of our well located 
portfolio with strong tenant covenants and low 
rental base offering scope for rental growth – or 
insulation from any future weakness in rental 
values. The combination of our strong income 
stream from the investment portfolio and 
projected future income from the development 
stock produces the prospect for a dynamic total 
return when all lettings complete.
The focus of the Company will remain targeted 
upon value added stock where the location 
justifies the risk.
MARKET REVIEW
“Our development programme  
is progressing well. “
