 The emerging markets in
which the Group
principally invests declined
significantly during the
year ended 31st May 2009
but have staged a
substantial recovery in the
period since. I am pleased
to report that our
investment performance
was resilient during the
last financial year as our
markets fell, but also has
provided clients with
outperformance of
benchmarks during their
recent recovery.
From the end of May 2008 to the end of
May 2009, the MSCI Emerging Markets
Index (MXEF) fell by 36%. Our funds
under management (FuM) declined by
26% over the same period to end the
year at US$3.5 billion, or £2.2 billion,
(2008: US$4.7 billion or £2.4 billion).
Since our year end, the MXEF has risen
by 9% to the end of August while City
of London’s FuM have increased by 13%
to US$4.0 billion, or £2.4 billion.
The period end comparisons to MXEF
mask considerable volatility in emerging
markets during the year with the index at
the end of May 2009 being some 70%
above the lows in October 2008. Volatility
is not new to us, and our investment
model has been honed over our history
in an attempt to provide clients with
outperformance against benchmarks in
both falling and rising markets. Indeed,
during the almost unprecedented volatility
of emerging markets over the last two
years, the Group has added significant
new FuM from both existing and new
clients as recognition of the virtues of
our approach has increased.
Results
Fee income, predominantly US dollar
denominated, for the year to 31st May
2009 fell by 19% to £20.2 million
(2008: £24.9 million) reflecting the
significantly lower FuM resulting from
the falls in emerging markets during the
second and third quarters but benefitting
from the relative weakness of sterling
during most of the period. 
Profit before profit share, interest and
similar income, impairment charges and
tax declined by 41% to £8.6 million
(2008: £14.5 million). Pre-tax profit
declined by almost 50% to £5.4 million
(2008: £10.7 million), after £2.8 million
of profit related staff payments (2008:
£4.7 million), reduced interest receivable
of £0.1 million (2008: £0.4 million) and
a £0.2 million loss on liquidation of seed
investments (2008: gain of £0.4 million).
After a reduced tax charge of £1.5
million, representing 29% of pre-tax
profits (2008: £3.6 million representing
33% of pre-tax profits), basic earnings
per share were 16.1p (2008: 29.3p), a
decline of 45%. Diluted earnings per
share were 15.0p (2008: 26.0p).
The Group ended its financial year with
cash balances of £4.7 million (2008: £5.5
million) and no borrowings (2008: same).
Dividends
Shareholders will be aware that City of
London’s dividend policy is based on
paying dividends that are covered
approximately one and a half times by
full year earnings per share. Although the
Board has no plans to change this policy,
a temporary reduction in earnings cover
has been applied this year in determining
the level of dividends. This is a reflection
of the exceptional market conditions, our
expected strong cash position and the
recovery in our markets and FuM since
our year end. As a consequence, the
Board is recommending a final dividend
of 10p per share (2008: 13.5p), making 
a total for the year of 15p (2008: 19.5p),
covered 1.06 times by earnings per share
(2008: 1.50 times). The final dividend
will be paid on 20th November 2009 
to shareholders on the register on 
30th October 2009.
Operational highlights
The Group took the decline in the
markets as an opportunity and
maintained its focus on organic growth,
both in terms of new products and
geographical expansion of the client base.
We made good progress on both fronts.
In the US, we received our first mandate
– of some US$100 million - to invest in
developed markets via closed end funds
and recruited a fund manager to support
Chairman’s statement
4 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2009 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2009 5
this new product area. In the UK, shortly
after the year end on 1st July, we launched
the Asian Value & Growth fund (a spoke
of the World Markets Umbrella Fund),
which will invest directly in equities in
Emerging Asia. Again, a senior fund
manager specialising in Asian investment
was appointed to provide the necessary
expertise for this product, which is
currently being marketed to UK
institutional investors before roll-out, once
a track record has been established, to the
Group’s client base in North America.
Towards the end of 2008 a marketing
manager was appointed to implement
our decision to bring our US marketing
in-house, and ultimately therefore to
avoid the commissions which we have
historically paid to North Bridge Capital
who have served us well since we started
the US marketing activity. He will be
responsible for developing direct
relationships with the consultant industry
which advises institutional investors.
These developments are reported in 
more detail in the Chief Executive
Officer’s review.
Outlook
From the lows recorded following the
collapse of Lehman Brothers in
September 2008, emerging markets
recovered strongly to our financial year
end. The recovery has continued into our
new financial year as investors recognised
that the prospects for many emerging
markets are better, in both the short and
longer term, than those for developed
economies. This is not to say that we
believe there will be no further volatility
but we anticipate that the very
pronounced troughs and peaks of the
last year will be moderated.
The comparative attractions of emerging
markets for our core institutional clients
has led, and is still leading, to the
commitment of new money to the asset
class as evidenced by the outstanding
commitments to be funded in excess of
US$500 million, which will benefit FuM
in the current year. In addition, investors
are becoming receptive to increased
weightings in the natural resource sector
following the protracted period when
they were out of favour.
We plan to take advantage of these
trends by continuing to diversify our
product offering with an increased focus
on natural resources and the launch of
both the Asia Value & Growth fund
(investing directly in Asian equities 
ex-Japan) and the Emerging Markets
Value & Growth fund (also investing
directly in equities). Additionally, as
noted above, we have been mandated to
manage a new global closed end funds
account. We believe that this leveraging
of our expertise in emerging markets and
in closed end funds represents a risk-
managed route to enhancing the quality
and stability of the Group’s earnings 
and is a strategy which plays to our
proven strengths. 
Andrew Davison
Chairman
10th September 2009 At City of London, we focus not on gathering assets, but 
on building products that reflect our expertise. Initially, and
for many years since the firm was founded, that expertise
was very specific to closed end funds which offered emerging
markets exposure. 
This was subsequently complemented by research into the underlying equities,
both via natural resources and via country specific emerging markets stocks,
which in turn spawned regional and global emerging market equity funds. Most
recently, we have applied our unrivalled knowledge of closed end funds around
the world to the development of a global (ex US) closed end fund product.
So today, while we remain both proud and protective of our “boutique” status,
we offer a range of products which are defined by the twin pillars of our
expertise: emerging markets, and closed end funds.
6 City of London Investment Group Plc  Annual Report 2009 Expertise
City of London Investment Group Plc  Annual Report 2009 7
