 With maintained focus
on our core disciplines
and with further
diversification of our
products and client base,
we hope, subject as always
to the performance of our
investment markets, to
report satisfactory results
for the forthcoming year.
I am pleased to report to you a year of
excellent results for which Barry Olliff
the Chief Executive and his staff deserve
both our thanks and our congratulations.
Pre-tax profit increased 46% to £10.7m
(2007: £7.3m), fully diluted earnings
per share increased 47.7% to 26p from
17.6p, and dividends, subject to
shareholders approval, increased by
95% to 19.5p per share.
City of London Investment Group’s
directors’ and managers’ strategy from
inception to the present day has been to
build a business that could better weather
the volatility inherent in the markets
comprising our investment focus. The
results for the year ended 31st May 2008
provide evidence of the success of this
strategy in a period of significant market
uncertainty and volatility and illustrate
what can be achieved by our focus on
investment process (rather than just
talented individuals) to deliver
performance for clients, whilst keeping
fixed costs to a minimum.
Results
Our Financial Statements for the year
have been prepared under policies
consistent with International Financial
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). As a
consequence, results for comparative
periods, reported under UK Generally
Accepted Accounting Principles (UK
GAAP), have been restated.
Fee income increased by 36% to £24.9
million (2007: £18.3 million), reflecting
the rise over the year of funds under
management from US$3.8 billion (£1.9
billion) in May 2007 to US$4.7 billion
(£2.4 billion) at this year end. Profit
before profit share, interest and similar
income and tax increased by 42% to
£14.5 million (2007: £10.2 million).
Pre-tax profit increased by 46% to
£10.7 million (2007: £7.3 million),
after £4.7 million of profit related staff
payments (2007: £3.1 million), interest
received of £0.44 million (2007: £0.18
million) and £0.43 million (2007
restated: £0.05 million) of profits on the
disposal of seed shareholdings in new
funds and options traded. Earnings per
share, after a 33% tax charge of £3.6
million (2007 restated: £2.4 million
representing 33% of pre-tax profit), was
29.3p (2007 restated: 20p) and fully
diluted earnings per share was 26p
(2007 restated: 17.6p).
Dividends
City of London’s dividend policy is based
on paying dividends to shareholders that
are covered approximately one and a half
times by full year profit per share with
an annual distribution pattern of roughly
one third as an interim dividend and two
thirds as a final dividend. The Board has
already declared an interim dividend
of 6p per share, which was paid in March
2008 and is now pleased to recommend
a final dividend for the year of 13.5p per
share payable on 21st November 2008
to shareholders on the register on
31st October 2008. This makes a total for
the year of 19.5p per share and represents
a 95% increase over the 10p paid in
respect of the year to end May 2007.
Listing
The Board has reviewed the listing of the
Company’s shares and considers that
a move from AIM to a full listing on the
London Stock Exchange would benefit
both City of London and its existing
shareholders by improving the standing
of the Company, particularly in the USA,
and by broadening the universe of
potential investors in the Company and,
thereby, increasing liquidity. Landsbanki
Securities have been appointed as
sponsors to the Company. Accordingly,
the AGM notice on pages 47 to 52 of
this report includes resolutions covering
Chairman’s statement
4 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2008 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2008 5
appropriate changes to the Company’s
Articles of Association and the proposed
delisting from AIM.
Review
We have again made very good progress
in growing the Company through the
careful and cautious diversification of our
business – in terms of clients, investment
products and geographical reach. A detailed
review of this progress is contained in
the Chief Executive Officer’s Review
on pages 8 to 11, but I set out the
highlights here.
Funds under management began the year
at US$3.8 billion and peaked at US$4.9
billion in October 2007 before falling
slightly to US$4.7 billion at the year end
as emerging markets recovered from a
relatively sharp correction in the first
quarter of the calendar year. The
substantial year-on-year increases in our
funds under management include
significant new money from Europe.
However, as a result of strong performance
in the emerging and other market sectors
in which the Company invests, and also
the out performance created by the
Company, a number of clients’ exposures
to the sector have become overweight
within their overall portfolios. This
imbalance was corrected by a series of
rebalancing realisations, largely
replenished in our overall funds under
management by new money. We believe
that rebalancing has been completed and
that further new monies will therefore
increase funds under management.
City of London has also diversified
its geographical base, both for the
management of existing funds and, in
due course, for the sourcing of new
mandates, with the opening in
November of the new Dubai office.
After several months in temporary
serviced accommodation we took
possession of our new offices in the Dubai
International Financial Centre in July,
and are already benefiting from a
presence on the ground at the centre of
the fast growing Middle Eastern markets.
In order to maximise efficiencies
throughout the business and across our
four offices around the world, we have
committed to a programme to upgrade
our IT systems. IT is a critical
component of City of London’s
performance delivery and this year will
see a complete revamp of our network
and communications infrastructure to
be followed by the roll-out of a new
front office and compliance system.
These improvements and upgrades result
from our strategic aim to leverage proven
technology to deliver tangible financial
benefits to clients and shareholders.
Finally, one of our original founder
shareholders, FMH Investments NV ,
decided to realise its investment in the
Company and in February the entire stake,
representing 29.6% of City of London’s
then issued share capital, was placed out.
The majority of the shares were placed
with existing and new institutional
investors by Landsbanki and Evolution
Securities (our newly appointed joint
brokers). The balance of some 30% of the
stake was bought back for cancellation
or acquired by directors and the
Company’s ESOP . Full details of the
transaction are contained in the
Financial Review on page 15.
Board
In May, I was delighted to welcome to
the Board Dr Allan Bufferd, T reasurer
Emeritus of the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology, as a non-executive
director. Dr Bufferd’s directorships and
trusteeships include Och-Ziff Capital
Management Group, Ram Re Holdings,
Bessemer T rust BGO Fund, Boston
Advisors, Controlled Risk Insurance
Company/Risk Management Foundation,
Morgan Stanley Prime Properties Fund
and the Robert Wood Johnson
Foundation. His experience, contacts
and wise counsel will, I am sure,
benefit City of London greatly.
Outlook
In the first three months of the current
financial year, the emerging markets in
which we principally invest have declined
significantly due to the deteriorating global
economic outlook. This has resulted in
funds under management reducing from
the year end figure of US$4.7 billion to a
first quarter end figure of US$3.9 billion
as at 31st August 2008. This is a 16%
fall and compares to a decline of 21%
in the MXEF index. The significant
depreciation of sterling against the dollar
since the year end should have a positive
effect on earnings.
2008/9 results will be earned against a
much more uncertain background than
that of last year. We have already seen
funds under management fall since the
year end to a level closer to that at the start
of last year. We are however fortunate that
the Company’s strategy has positioned us
relatively favourably. With maintained
focus on our core disciplines and further
diversification of our products and client
base, we hope, subject as always to the
performance of our investment markets,
to report satisfactory results for the
current year.
Andrew Davison
Chairman
12th September 2008 6 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2008
Institutional not retail
Some fund managers focus on retail investors.
City of London does not. As an institutional
manager we are not subjected to the volatility
of subscriptions and redemptions of many retail
houses, resulting in stronger client retention. City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2008 7
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
