 2 Overview
City of London Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013
As a financial services investment group we 
have made considerable progress during 
the year despite a continuing backdrop 
of economic weakness and difficult fund 
raising conditions. In particular, assets under 
management and available facilities have 
increased by 106% from £35m to £72m.
There continues to be significant media coverage 
concerning the lack of funding available from 
the major high street banks to SMEs as well as 
enormous political pressure on the Government to 
demonstrate lending to SMEs through alternative 
sources. City of London Group is well positioned 
to take advantage of the opportunities that this 
presents. For example, during the year one of our 
subsidiaries was among the first companies to put to 
work the initial tranche of Government funding made 
available through the Business Finance Partnership 
scheme managed by the Department for Business, 
Innovation & Skills (BIS). This has enabled us to 
form a good working relationship with BIS and 
their advisers and to establish our credentials with 
them. Following the first phase of the scheme, 
we are already in advanced discussions with BIS 
concerning a much larger second phase from which 
we hope to raise a further £60m of funding from the 
Government and other sources to apply in our SME 
leasing and professions lending businesses. 
Our trade finance business, backed by banking 
facilities through Macquarie Bank, has made 
substantial progress during the year – more than 
doubling revenue and with a significant acceleration 
in business towards the end of the financial year. 
The business is in final discussions to close its first 
commodity trade financing and now expects to  
add this product to its existing range.
While our trade finance business is profitable, 
our leasing business and, to a lesser extent, our 
professions funding business, have continued to 
incur losses. This is due to the relatively small scale 
of the businesses but also the accounting treatment 
required which means that all of the development 
costs incurred in building the leasing and funding 
Henry Lafferty
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
As a financial 
services investment 
group we have made 
considerable progress 
during the year despite 
a continuing backdrop 
of economic weakness
During the year one of our 
subsidiaries was among the 
first companies to put to 
work the initial tranche of 
Government funding made 
available through the Business 
Finance Partnership scheme 
managed by the Department for 
Business, Innovation & Skills City of London Group plc
3
Overview
books must be charged against profit. However, 
with the current funds from BIS the businesses are 
growing a very valuable and saleable loan book.
The disappointment during the year has been the 
lack of legal case determinations in Therium and 
therefore the absence of any performance fees. 
However, in spite of this the business has been able 
to continue to raise further third-party funds, taking 
the total funding now available to it to over £30m 
with a further £10m agreed in principle.
The demand for funding and services from SMEs 
remains strong across our platforms. Accordingly, 
the need to continue to increase the volume of funds 
under management, including those for our own 
book, remains our largest challenge. The Board has 
therefore given considerable thought to the various 
options available to the Company to further expand 
and develop the business. The options include 
applying for a new banking licence or accessing peer 
to peer lending so that we can take advantage of 
lower-cost, online retail deposits and to apply these 
funds to the existing, established platforms alongside 
other third-party funds. We are encouraged by the 
well-publicised support from the Government for new 
and alternative lending platforms. Successful delivery 
of one of these initiatives would provide alternative 
sources of lower cost funds at a higher volume and 
therefore allow us to pursue our goal of becoming a 
niche merchant bank.
Financial
The Company has reported a loss before tax of 
£1.6m of which approximately £0.7m is non-recurring, 
relating to the permanent diminution in value of two 
mining investments, the loss on sale of FTIM and the 
closure of the legacy City of London PR business. 
With regard to funding, the Company raised £1.3m in 
September 2012 using its power to issue up to 10% 
of its issued share capital. The Company used these 
funds as well as the proceeds from selling down  
more of the energy and mining resources portfolio  
to fund the business through the year. The value of 
the share portfolio at 31 March 2013 was £1.9m, and 
the Company expects to sell down the remainder of 
the portfolio during 2013/14 to continue to fund the 
business as well as exploring a range of other capital 
raising possibilities. 
Board
We were pleased to welcome Nigel Sidebottom as a 
non-executive director on 1 December 2012. Nigel’s 
expertise in the investment arena will be invaluable 
as we continue to develop our traditional merchant 
banking model. We have also recently welcomed 
Andrew Crowe onto the Board as an alternate 
director to John Greenhalgh. We all wish John the 
very best with his recovery. Once again I would like to 
thank all the staff across the Group for their efforts in 
progressing the development of the platforms.
Outlook
While economic conditions in the UK continue to 
be sluggish, having narrowly avoided a double-dip 
recession, the sheer depth of the markets in which 
the Group operates does not present a constraint 
to its growth at the current stage of development. 
Having access to retail funds would transform the 
Group and ensure a step change in scale for each of 
the platforms. This will be a key area of development 
for us over the coming year as well as continuing to 
pursue third-party wholesale funding. We intend to 
maintain the growth of the Group and shall therefore 
seek to increase the capital base, by the issue of 
either equity, debt or both.
Henry Lafferty
Chairman
24 June 2013
Having access to retail funds 
would transform the Group and 
ensure a step change in scale 
for each of the platforms
