 4 
Annual Report & Accounts 2013
Strategy and business model
City of London Group plc
Chief Executive’s review
Investment climate
The City of London Group has had another year of 
growth despite the faltering UK and World economies. 
Our investment platforms have seen increases in 
funds under management, turnover and volume of 
transactions. We have again continued to invest in 
each of the platforms, and I am now confident that  
we have built solid foundations for the future expansion 
of the Group against a merchant bank model with 
three major segments: SME Lending; Alternative  
Asset Management, and Trade Finance.
Last year I said that our early identification of the 
financing needs for SMEs would enable us to play an 
important, albeit niche, part in the UK Government’s 
efforts to kick-start the economy at grass roots 
level. I was therefore delighted that our Credit 
Asset Management Limited (CAML) subsidiary was 
chosen as the first leasing platform to partner with 
The Department for Business Innovation & Skills 
to support the Government’s Business Finance 
Partnership scheme. We continue to see strong 
demand for lending from SMEs to our CAML 
platform and for further services from our Trade 
Finance Partners Limited (TFPL) business.
In the legal sector Therium, our litigation funding 
business, has seen a hectic last quarter of this financial 
year to March 2013. In each financial year since launch 
Therium has received increased numbers of cases to 
fund. We expect this trend to continue.
On 1 April 2013, many of the reforms recommended 
by Lord Chief Justice Jackson for the legal profession 
were implemented. In particular his recommendations 
that After The Event Insurance (ATE) premiums cease 
to be recoverable from the other side and that any 
uplift in fees paid under a conditional fee agreement 
(CFA) of the law firm also cease to be recoverable 
from the other side. The impact of this was that 
Therium was exceptionally busy in the first quarter 
of 2013 closing applications for litigation funding as 
law firms sought to file claims before 1 April so that 
their rights to recovery of fees under CFAs and their 
clients’ right to recover insurance premiums were 
covered by the old regime.
Financial results
Despite strong activity, two of our subsidiary 
undertakings remain below the scale sufficient to 
produce profits. This has resulted in the Group 
Revenue
Eric Anstee 
Chief Executive 
2011
0
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
2012 2013
£’000
Revenue
I am now confident that we 
have built solid foundations  
for the future expansion of  
the Group against a merchant 
bank model 5
City of London Group plc
Strategy and business model
Principal Holdings as at 31 March 2013
Security Holding 
Book Cost  
(Net of Provision) 
£’000
Value 
£’000
Munro UK Fund X Class (Income Shares) 500,300 500  455 
Tertiary Minerals plc 6,000,000  275 405 
Hurricane Exploration 283,340 120 383 
Sunrise Diamonds plc 19,500,000 210 117 
AFC Energy plc 300,000  47 83 
SIPA Resources International NL 1,000,667  44  55 
Netalogue Technologies 2,729,583  62  55 
Total 1,258 1,553
again reporting an overall loss before tax for the 
year of £1.6m (2012: £2.1m). The increase in gross 
value of goods and services invoiced is, however, 
pleasing up 108% on last year to £32.3m, largely 
from our Trade Finance business.
Strategy and growth
We continue to explore all opportunities to attract 
further third-party funding into our platforms, 
including working with the peer-to-peer lending 
platforms and the so-called “challenger banks”. 
Following our success with the UK Government 
through CAML, we are now also in discussions with 
the newly-established UK Business Bank about a 
substantial increase in funds for CAML to manage.
Our other lending platforms to professional firms 
and to law firm clients continue to attract third-party 
funds under management.
Our trade finance business continues to expand with 
new SME customers and with an increasing number 
of commodity financing opportunities. The growth in 
our turnover is expected to continue at a similar or 
greater pace.
Our litigation funding business continues to grow 
third party funds under management, and we have 
additional funds under development, in particular 
and as announced in March 2013, an international 
litigation funding joint venture of material size.
Finally our lending platforms have also identified a 
number of opportunities to provide equity funding 
to clients, and we are contemplating creating a 
platform to undertake this activity.
Investment platforms
Our investment platforms as discussed above  
are now our engine for growth. Since our year-
end Therium has been appointed to advise a  
new litigation fund of £5.6m. 
In the meantime I am conscious that the real value 
of these platforms is not being recognised under 
current accounting practices, but again this year 
the directors have undertaken a valuation and 
guidance is provided at the end of this report. I am 
delighted to report that this shows that we have 
added substantially to the overall value of the Group 
despite this disappointingly not being recognised as 
yet in the share price. Edison Research, who provide 
investment research services, have provided a 
recent report which supports this directors’ valuation.
Available for sale investments
We have continued with our policy of divestment 
of listed investments and have re-deployed the 
funds across the three platforms. I am pleased to 
be able to report that sales of listed investments 
resulted in proceeds of £2.8m and a realised profit 
on sales of £1.4m.
We continue to explore all 
opportunities to attract further 
third-party funding into our 
platforms, including working 
with the peer-to-peer lending 
platforms and the so-called 
“challenger banks”
