 Our financial year to 31st May 2010 saw
a marked and sustained recovery in our
principal markets from the lows recorded
in the prior year following the end of the
credit boom and the collapse of financial
markets around the world. Measured by
the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
(MXEF), emerging markets increased by
some 20% during the year under review as
global investors increased their exposure to
countries growing, and forecast to
continue to grow, at rates considerably
ahead of developed economies. City of
London’s funds under management (FuM)
grew over the same period by 25% to a
year-end total of US$4.38 billion,
reflecting performance in line with the
benchmark and the addition of net new
money from clients as they increased their
weighting in emerging markets.
Since the year end, the MXEF has
continued to strengthen and at
31st August the index was 5% higher
than at 31st May. FuM have also
continued to increase, ending August
at US$4.86 billion, a rise of 11% over
the financial year-end figure.
Due to the weakness of sterling against the
US dollar in particular (a topic covered in
more detail in the Financial Review), the
increase in FuM in sterling terms has been
even stronger with a 39% rise to £3.01
billion being recorded in the year to 31st
May 2010. FuM in sterling increased by a
further 5% to £3.16 billion during the
three months to 31st August 2010, less
than the US dollar increase as sterling
weakness continued to unwind.
Results
The substantial improvement in the
Group’s financial results principally reflects
the sustained recovery in emerging markets
during the period and the consequent
increase in FuM, together with new
monies received from existing clients and
the award of new mandates.
Gross fee income for the year to 31st May
2010 (being the revenues derived from the
Group’s management charges on FuM)
increased by 49% to £30.0 million (2009:
£20.2 million). Profit before profit share,
investment losses and tax was up 77%
to £15.2 million (2009: £8.6 million),
demonstrating once again the operational
leverage inherent in the Group’s business.
Chairman’s statement
“The substantial improvement
in the Group’s financial results
principally reflects the sustained
recovery in emerging markets
during the period...”
4 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2010 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2010 5
Profit before tax increased by 93% to
£10.4 million (2009: £5.4 million) and
after a tax charge of £3.4 million,
representing 33% of pre-tax profits (2009:
£1.5 million or 28% of pre-tax profits),
profit for the period was up by 82% to
£7.0 million (2009: £3.8 million).
Basic earnings per share were up 77% to
28.5p (2009: 16.1p) and fully diluted
earnings per share, reflecting dilutive
options held by directors and employees,
increased by 79% to 26.9p (2009: 15.0p).
Cash and cash equivalents at the year-end
were £4.8 million (2009: £4.7 million).
Dividends
The Group’s dividend policy is essentially
unchanged. We pay dividends to
shareholders that are covered
approximately 1.5 times by earnings per
share, split one third: two thirds between
the interim and final payments. Following
the exceptional, and volatile market
conditions experienced last year, the level
of cover was temporarily reduced to reflect
the Board’s belief that these conditions
were unlikely to be repeated. It is our
intention to restore dividend cover to the
long term level over the next two years.
The Board is recommending a final
dividend for the year to 31st May 2010 of
15p per share (2009: 10p) to be paid on
19th November 2010 to shareholders on
the register on 29th October 2010. Taken
together with the interim dividend of 7p
paid in March, this makes a total for the
year of 22p (2009: 15p), an increase of
47%. This level of payout is covered
1.30 times by basic earnings per share
compared to 1.07 times last year.
T ransfer from AIM to the main market
I advised shareholders in my statement
accompanying the half year results that
we were revisiting our plans to migrate
our share listing from AIM to the main
market of the London Stock Exchange.
We determined that these plans should be
implemented this year and shareholders
received a notice convening a meeting to
approve the move together with a letter
explaining the benefits to the Company
and its owners. Approval was granted at
the meeting (held in July) and the next
step in the process will be the publication,
and despatch to shareholders, of Listing
Particulars ahead of the grant of listing
and delisting from AIM. We currently
expect this to take place around the end
of October.
The Board believes that a main market
listing in London will widen the potential
universe of investors in City of London,
both institutional and private individuals –
who will be able, for instance, to hold our
shares in an ISA. We also believe that a
main market listing could enhance the
Group’s reputation and brand with the
large and sophisticated institutional
investors that account for the largest
proportion of our current client base.
There are a limited number of current
private shareholders who have expressly
invested in the Company as an AIM
stock in order to take advantage of UK
Inheritance Tax benefits. Hopefully they
will feel that they have received adequate
notice of our intentions.
Operations
We have continued to develop and
progress our strategy to diversify our client
base, the type of funds we run and our
geographical coverage. This strategy is
long term in its execution and reflects the
Group’s core tenet of risk aversion.
During the year under review our focus
has been on the recruitment of
experienced individuals who bring new
skills to the Group and who are able to
help us implement our plans to offer
additional investment products to existing
and potential clients. These new products
include funds investing directly
in equities, in frontier emerging markets
and in global closed-end funds.
The process of internalising the Group’s
marketing functions is now almost
complete. We are extending and
strengthening our contacts and
relationships with the consultant
community worldwide that forms our
principal source of new business. We are
optimistic that the dedicated marketing
resources in place in the US, London and
Singapore will not only generate high
quality new business for us in due course
but also ultimately improve net margins
as payments to present external new
business finders decrease.
A more detailed review of the Group’s
operations and strategy is provided by our
Chief Executive Officer, Barry Olliff,
on page 8.
Board change
In August 2010, we announced the
resignation of Omar Ashur as a non-
executive director to devote more time to
his business interests in Dubai. Omar had
been a director of the Company since
2001 and has been a source of wise and
commercially experienced advice for many
years. On behalf of the Board, I wish him
success and happiness in the future.
Outlook
Developed economies remain difficult to
forecast as government finances continue
to worsen prompting near universal
cutbacks in public spending that may well
reduce or extinguish the recovery in
activity seen in the last 12 months.
The outlook for emerging markets appears
to be more hopeful with relatively high
growth in GDP forecast, at least compared
to the developed economies. If this
translates into increased weightings
towards emerging markets and if we
maintain our investment performance,
then the current financial year should see
further growth in revenues for the Group.
Increased revenues, given our low cost base
and loyal and experienced staff, should
result in increased profitability.
I will update shareholders on progress in
this financial year at the time of the AGM.
Andrew Davison
Chairman
9th September 2010 6 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2010
Closed-end funds
The original expertise
1868
Launch of what is generally
regarded as the first investment
trust by Foreign & Colonial in the
form of a collective investment
scheme protected by limited
liability for its shareholders. The
Foreign & Colonial Government
T rust set out to raise an initial 
£1million with a stated objective of
providing “the investor of moderate
means the same advantage as the
large capitalist in diminishing risk
in Foreign & Colonial stocks by
spreading the investment over a
number of stocks”.
1873
Launch of the first Scottish
investment trust by Robert Fleming,
The Scottish American Investment
T rust, to invest surplus capital
originally generated in Dundee from
the weaving of imported jute into
tenting and sailcloth and supplied in
vast quantities to forces in the US
Civil War. This was “the first
Association in Scotland for
investments in American railroad
bonds, carefully selected and widely
distributed, and where investments
would not exceed one-tenth of the
capital in any one security”.
In response to the world’s first
telecommunications boom,
The Globe T elegraph and T rust
Company was launched in London
to participate in the business of
laying and operating cable links
between countries. Globe went
on to become the largest UK
investment trust, a position it
held for over 100 years.
1900 – 1930
The 20th century began with
over 80 investment trusts in the
UK, reflecting the success of the
earlier launches and the popularity
of the schemes with the fast
growing number of individual
investors. These investors could
access, via the trusts, opportunities
that until then had been reserved
for only the very richest families –
from railroads and telegraphs
to rubber plantations and
infrastructure in every continent.
In the US as well, investment
trusts slowly gained in popularity
but really took off during the
bull market preceding the Wall
Street Crash of 1929. 
A closed-end fund (or an investment trust or company)
is one with a fixed number of shares outstanding, and
one which does not redeem shares in the way an
open-ended one (such as a mutual fund or unit trust)
does. The price of a share in a publicly traded closed-
end fund is determined entirely by supply and demand,
so shares can either trade below their net asset value
(“at a discount”) or above it (“at a premium”). It is this
characteristic that we seek to exploit, buying those
shares we consider cheap, generally at what we believe
to be an unjustifiable discount, and selling those we
consider expensive, those at an unwarranted small
discount or at a premium. City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2010 7
1932
With the worldwide Great
Depression came a wave of defaults
by companies and over-leveraged
trusts on both sides of the Atlantic.
The conservatively managed
survivors in the UK took the then
radical step of forming an
‘association’ of investment trust
companies (not managers) to
address common issues such as:
taxation and gearing levels,
represent the interests of the trusts
and their shareholders, speak with
one, powerful voice on behalf of its
members and begin the processes
that would lead to greater
transparency in their dealings.
1950 – 1980
The trust sector in the UK enjoyed
a period of significant growth after
the calamity of the Second World
War despite having to deal with
increasing taxation levels, exchange
controls and the emergence of
institutional investors. Increasing
transparency and technology
combined to allow the accurate
analysis of each trust’s underlying
portfolio (by now almost exclusively
in publicly traded equities) by
brokers and therefore whether the
shares were cheap or dear. Sector or
geographic specialisation became
increasingly popular in a return to
the very beginning of the
investment trusts’ history.
1980 to date
The trends begun in the last 50
years continued as institutional
investors came to dominate
ownership of closed-end funds and
ever more sophisticated analysis was
carried out into their underlying
assets. In addition, the rise of
activist investors, and in some cases
successful predators, has sharpened
the focus of all managers around
the world, whether they are in
developed or emerging financial
centres. T oday’s trust sector offers
investors professionally managed,
diversified exposure to almost any
sector and geography they wish –
just as they were designed to do
140 years ago.
