 8 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s review
The listing
This is our first full year as a listed
company and it’s been a surprise to me
the extent that, as far as our company is
concerned, it’s been business as usual.
We have not found being listed a
distraction. Possibly this was as a result of
us having most of the required internal
controls in place for many years prior to
listing. Neither have there been changes
in our Governance. The Board appointed
a further Independent Director,
David Cardale at the point of listing,
but apart from this there has been no
noticeable difference in the way we are
running the Group.
One item of City of London Investment
Management Company’s publications
that might be of interest to Group
shareholders is our Statement on
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy
for Closed-End Funds, 2007. This is the
sixth edition of this document that was
first issued in 1999. Where relevant
we follow the principles within this
document in the running of the Group.
The past financial year
The past year has been eventful. Funds
under management (“FUM”) have
increased from $2.750bn to $3.793bn.
Or measured in sterling from £1.471bn
to £1.916bn. Due to the ongoing out
performance of the emerging market
asset class we have experienced significant
rebalancing. These rebalancings totalled
approximately $269mn. Fortunately as
a result of ongoing good investment
performance these lost assets were
replaced. In my opinion this puts us in
a good position for a bear market
because this will mean that clients are, to
a significant extent, presently adjusting
their exposure to emerging markets,
reducing the need for this to occur when
markets are falling. Please refer to the
Financial review on pages 14 to 15 for
more information regarding our
currency hedging strategy, together
with a table on page 15 showing the
sensitivity of our income to moves in
the $/£ exchange rate.
In April we started to hedge (you could
say) our P&L, but in reality we were
hedging our FUM against a fall in
world stock markets. Rather than
believing that our asset class was
expensive we were attempting to take
into account that world stock markets
seemed expensive (the emerging markets
are to some extent priced off world
markets), that the move upwards had
been very sharp and that our profits
were significantly ahead of budget.
Our concern was to get a significant
percentage of these profits into
shareholders hands in the form of
dividends. Whilst believing that we
remain in an emerging markets secular
bull market, we decided to place
$100,000 at the end of April and May
(and we continued with this program
with similar amounts in June and July)
into the purchasing of out of the money
puts. As at the end of August the profit
on this investment was $171,325. We
review this exposure and value it daily,
reflecting its valuation on a monthly basis
through our management accounts.
B M Olliff
Chief Executive Officer
The past year has been
eventful. Funds under
management have increased
from $2.750bn to
$3.793bn. Or measured in
sterling from £1.471bn 
to £1.916bn. City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 9
At the point of listing we did not make
a forecast regarding dividends for y/e
2007. At the interim stage we declared a
dividend of 3p and stated that based
upon present conditions we intended to
pay a twice covered dividend. At that
time that could have been projected as a
potential final dividend of 6p. In the
event as a result of increased FUM and
profits, and subject to ratification by
shareholders it is intended to pay a
final dividend of 7p.
Diversification
We have developed our diversification
plans significantly over the past year and
would expect them to continue to develop
and bear fruit during the next year. The
basis of our diversification plans relate 
to risk. At the beginning of the decade
(31st December 1999), 89% of our 
assets were US based. If we were to go
back even two years, close to 81% of our
business was US based and nearly all of
the growth was coming from the US too.
A further risk was that we had all of our
eggs, you might say, in the Emerging
Markets basket.
However, I would point out that when we
say we are going to diversify we are not
setting targets, we are not going to spend
a lot of shareholders’ money attempting to
achieve an objective in a given time frame,
or in a difficult (stock) marketplace.
Rather we are going to be opportunistic
and, most important, we are not going to
Diversification: 10 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Continued
market products that are not either first or
second quartile, for to do so would mean
that we would be undermining the
reputation of the company we work for.
As a result of the above our present
diversification, which we plan to be
organic, falls into three categories:
1) To diversify our core emerging
markets business geographically.
Since January 2006, the percentage of
assets that are sourced outside of the
US has increased from 17% to 23%.
2) To use our investment trust discipline
in other areas separate from the
emerging markets.
We have recently (in our new
financial year) been awarded our first
ACWI (ex US) mandate.
3) To develop our emerging markets
equities (as compared with closed
end funds) business.
A possible new office
In my previous review I mentioned that
we were considering the opening of an
office in Dubai. This was principally to
add value to our investment process 
but, I stated, we would hope that over 
a period of time it could assist in the
selling of City of London products.
These plans have developed over the past
year to the extent that this office will,
other things being equal, open during
October this year. It will be staffed
initially by two existing City of London
employees. This office will round out for
the foreseeable future our coverage
geographically, effectively allowing us to
trade in all of the various emerging
markets efficiently.
Business continuity plans
Another year of testing was successfully
completed at our off-site disaster recovery
centre in London. We extensively tested
recovery of mission critical servers from
backup tape onto different hardware
platforms following our previously tried
and tested procedures. We are also in the
process of signing up with a leading
disaster recovery centre based in
Philadelphia, which would provide us
with instant desk space for our US office
in the event of a disaster type scenario,
replicating the London arrangements.
Cost income ratio
As our FUM grows, so we expect our cost
income ratio to fall, and so it has this year,
from 56% in fiscal 2006 to 52% in the
current year (treating third party marketing
commission and custody as a deduction
from fees rather than as an expense). We
take some pride in the fact that this level is
significantly lower than the average for our
sector, and it is a fundamental element of
our strategy to maintain the focus on costs
that enables us to consistently differentiate
City of London in this respect. I make no
apology for repetition on this point; our
ethos would simply not allow us to relax
our stance on cost control.
Operational leverage
As I reported last year we are focused on
developing our business in such a way that
enables a significant percentage of any
increase in income to flow through to
shareholders. We do not spend large
amounts of shareholders’ money on fancy
offices, or on travel, or accommodation
when on the road. As I mentioned earlier,
neither do we intend to throw shareholders’
money at diversification. Over many years
I’ve watched financial service companies do
this often with very little added value being
achieved in terms of measurable success.
As I reported last year we
are focused on developing
our business in such a way
that enables a significant
percentage of any increase
in income to flow through
to shareholders.  City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 11
The other point about operational
leverage that I would like to make is that
if you don’t spend frivolously you don’t
have to change habits in the event of a
bear market. In other words, keeping
expenses low results in higher dividends
for shareholders.
Authorisation and regulation
It seems to me that we, by which I mean
our wholly owned subsidiary City of
London Investment Management
Company Limited (“CoLIM”), are one of
the most regulated firms of our size.
CoLIM is authorised and regulated by
the Financial Services Authority in the
UK, is registered as an adviser with the
US Securities and Exchange Commission,
and is also registered as required by the
regulatory authorities in Singapore and
Canada. Additionally, CoLIM is currently
seeking authorisation from the Dubai
Financial Services Authority against the
background of the Dubai office
intentions as outlined above.
End of first quarter FUM
At the end of August total FUM were
$4.093bn. This compares with $2.815bn
at the same point last year. Both FUM
and pre-tax profit for the quarter are
significantly ahead of our budget.
CoL core values
By now you will be aware of the fact that
since our company’s inception, we have
run our business in a manner that is both
conservative and might seem relatively
unfashionable. We don’t manage Hedge
Funds. We don’t manage any money
from an Absolute return perspective
(neither do we participate in out
performance), preferring to manage
money Relative to a benchmark. We
manage money using a team approach.
We do not encourage the cult of the
individual. The reason that we maintain
these core values is that we believe that
by doing so we provide better returns for
our clients which leads to employment
continuity for employees and better
returns for our shareholders.
Thanks to CoL employees.
Finally I would like to thank all of my
colleagues for their hard work over the
past year in what remains a challenging
environment.
B M Olliff
Chief Executive Officer
14th September 2007 Risk
A central plank of City of London’s
approach to business is a proven 
risk averse culture and a prudent
investment process in markets with 
a history of volatility.
The Liberty Bell, Philadelphia, PA.
The Liberty Bell was founded in 1751 
to commemorate the 50th anniversary 
of William Penn’s Charter of Privileges,
which enunciated the rights and freedoms
of the people of Pennsylvania, and the bell
became symbolic of the abolition of slavery
movement. It is believed that the crack
appeared when the bell was first tested for
tone, and that the bell last rang on George
Washington’s birthday in 1846.
12 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 13
