 4 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007
We expect to continue
to grow City of London
Investment Group for
the benefit of its clients
and shareholders,
managers and staff
around the world. 
I am pleased once again to report a year
of good progress for City of London
Investment Group, the first full year for
which the Group’s shares have been
quoted on the AIM market of the
London Stock Exchange. Since the
financial year end in May, the volatility
in all markets in which we invest for our
clients has increased significantly as a
result of the problems first encountered
in US credit markets. Although this
additional volatility has affected our
investment activities in the first quarter
of the current financial year, Funds under
Management at the end of August
totalled some US$4.093 billion
compared to the 31st May figure of
US$3.793 billion. 
Our markets have always been volatile
and our performance to date in the 
new financial year provides, I believe,
endorsement that our business model is
sufficiently robust to continue to generate
outperformance against benchmarks even
in recent market conditions. In order to
provide some financial protection to the
Group from the worst of the volatility, 
we have this year instituted a limited
hedging programme which is described
more fully, along with our view of the
Group’s target investment markets, in 
the Chief Executive’s Review and the
Accounts that follow my statement.
Results
Funds under management during the
period under review increased by 38%
to US$3.8 billion (2006: US$2.8 billion)
reflecting both our outperformance in
growing emerging markets and additional
funds from existing and new clients.
As a result of the growth in funds under
management, turnover increased by
almost 30% to £18.3 million (2006:
£14.1 million). The higher turnover
figure translated, due to the operational
gearing inherent in our business, into a
55% increase in profit before tax to £7.3
million (2006: £4.7 million after AIM
listing costs of £483,000). Net profit for
the period after a 34% tax charge (2006:
38%) was £4.9 million (2006: £2.9
million), producing basic earnings per
share up 47% to 19.9p (2006: 13.5p)
and fully diluted earnings per share of
17.5p (2006: 11.7p). 
Retained profit for the year, after the paid
and proposed dividend payments set out
below was £4.1 million (2006: £0.7
million). As a result of the substantially
higher level of retained profits for the year,
shareholders’ funds almost doubled to £8.6
million (2006: £4.3 million), including
cash balances at the year end of £6.6
million (2006: £2.7 million). The Group
has no borrowings. A more detailed
explanation of the accounts for the year is
contained in the Financial Review.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final
dividend in respect of the financial year to
31st May 2007 of 7p per share. Subject to
approval by shareholders at the Annual
General Meeting, the dividend will be paid
on 15th November 2007 to shareholders
on the register on 2nd November 2007.
T ogether with the interim dividend of 3p
per share paid in March, this makes a total
for the year of 10p. No dividend was paid
as a publicly listed company in 2006
reflecting the fact that City of London
listed on AIM less than two months
before the financial year end. 
The Group’s dividend policy is based
on paying dividends to shareholders that
Chairman’s statement
A J Davison
Chairman City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 5
are twice covered by earnings and to
pay one third of the annual total as an
interim dividend and two thirds as a
final dividend. This year’s interim
dividend of 3p per share therefore
implied a final dividend of 6p. In the
event, the Board decided to recommend
a final dividend of 7p per share taking
into account the year end cash balances
and the continuing satisfactory financial
performance of the Group. Going
forward, we intend to maintain our
current dividend policy and to declare
or recommend dividends with the
interim and full year results announced
in January and September respectively
followed by payments in February
and November. 
Review
City of London’s investment management
services, provided predominantly to
institutional clients, are focused on
closed-end funds investing in the world’s
emerging markets. In addition, the Group
manages investments in direct equities in
both emerging and natural resource
markets. We provide our services
currently from three offices in the United
States, London and Singapore. 
The emerging market universe in which
we principally invest began the financial
year at relatively depressed levels but
recovered strongly during the first half
and this momentum was maintained
during the second half as investment
fundamentals in many of the territories
remained strong. The positive emerging
market performance ended abruptly after
the year end as international investors
shied away from perceived higher risk
investments and markets, following the
problems disclosed by lenders in the US
mortgage markets. Shareholders should
take comfort from the fact that the
higher volatility of markets now is an
environment we are used to and have
successfully dealt with over our history
as an investment manager specialising in
emerging markets.
Good progress has been made towards
our strategic objective to diversify our
business. A number of new mandates
were won during the period and it is
pleasing to report that such success is
continuing not only in our traditional
core market of North America but also in
Europe where we have invested in
increased marketing of the Group’s
services. At the same time, we have been
planning the addition – when market
conditions are appropriate – of two new
funds for European distribution, a natural
resources fund and an emerging markets
high yield fund. These will provide
further diversification from our original
investment management activities.
The Group’s geographical presence will be
expanded with the planned opening of an
office in the increasingly important
emerging markets of the Middle East.
Subject to the necessary regulatory
approvals, we expect to open an office in
Dubai by the end of the fourth quarter of
calendar 2007. Initially this office will
have a staff of two.
Investor Relations and
Corporate Governance
As a Company we set great store by
being as open as possible with our
shareholders and one of the principal
means of communication is, of course,
the web site (www.citlon.co.uk). This 
has recently been upgraded so that the
Investor Relations section now complies
fully with AIM Rule 26, which came 
into force in August.
Outlook
We expect to continue to grow City of
London Investment Group for the benefit
of its clients and shareholders, managers
and staff around the world. These record
results demonstrate the strength and cash
generation characteristics of the Group.
T ogether with the strong ungeared balance
sheet, they provide us with a secure
platform from which to grow our
traditional business lines and to diversify
carefully and cautiously into new ones.
The current year has started positively with
the Group in good shape to deliver further
progress, subject only, and always, to the
performance of our investment markets.
I am confident that the excellence of our
staff combined with the strength of our
process will enable us to continue to
capitalise to the maximum extent on the
opportunities that lie ahead.
Andrew Davison
Chairman
14th September 2007 6 City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007
The City of London Dragon
The dragon bearing the shield of St
George, with the sword of St Paul in its
first quarter, stands as protector at each
of the City of London’s seven ancient
gates, and has become a symbol of the
City’s strength and security. City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2007 7
Starting in London in 1991, the Group has
built on its specialist investment expertise in
emerging market closed end funds to deliver
strong performance for over 15 years.
Investment
