 Chairman’s statement
City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2006
2
Despite our achievements during the year
under review, recent falls in emerging markets have
inevitably overshadowed some of this success.
However, the Board believes that our business
model – based on tried and tested processes and an
experienced management team – can cope with the
volatility in our target investment markets.
Emerging markets have always displayed volatility
and it is our ability to outperform in all market
conditions that has enabled the Group to
consistently win investment mandates from
sophisticated institutional investors. Our CEO,
Barry Olliff, addresses operational issues,
including investment markets, in his review
which follows my statement.
Results
Funds under management during the period
doubled to a peak in April 2006 of over US$3
billion before declining, with the markets, to
US$2.8 billion at 31st May, a level which has since
been maintained. Turnover from continuing
activities during the year increased by 82% to
£14.08 million (2005 – £7.74 million), producing
a 127% rise in operating profits to £4.68 million
(2005 – £2.06 million) as a result of the
operational leverage in our activities whereby costs
do not rise proportionally with turnover.
Operating profit for the current year is stated net
of £0.48 million costs related to the Admission to
AIM. Discontinued activities represent the closure
of a subsidiary and contributed just £38,700 of
turnover and £9,357 of operating profit. 
Profit before tax increased to £4.79 million
(2005 – £2.12 million), a rise of 125%. The tax
charge for the year was £1.78 million (2005 –
£0.79 million) and dividends paid to shareholders
pre-Admission to AIM were £2.28 million (2005 –
£0.35 million). Retained profit for the year was
£0.72 million (2005 – £0.98 million), which
contributed to the significant increase in
shareholders’ funds to £4.33 million (2005 – £2.56
million). Cash balances at the year end were £2.71
million (2005 – £2.40 million). There were no
borrowings. A more detailed explanation of the
results is contained in the Financial review.
Dividends
The Board is not recommending a final dividend
in respect of the financial year under review,
reflecting the fact that City of London was a
publicly traded company for less than two months
of the period. The dividends paid to our pre-IPO
shareholders in the period comprised an interim
dividend of £1.98 million in respect of the year to
31st May 2006 and a final dividend of £0.30
million in respect of the year to 31st May 2005.
It is the Board’s intention going forward to pay
dividends to shareholders twice a year, an interim
and a final, with the level of payout based on
cover of two times – dividends will represent
approximately half of post tax profits. We intend
to declare or recommend dividends with the
interim and full year results announced in January
and September respectively followed by payments
in February and November. The Board expects to
declare a first dividend in respect of the current
financial year with the interim results for the
period to 30th November 2006 in January 2007.
Review
The major corporate event during the year was our
Admission to AIM which took place at the very
end of the period in April 2006. We sought a
listing in order to provide our existing institutional
shareholders with liquidity and the ability to realise
The year to 31st May 2006 was a successful one for
City of London and I am pleased to be able to report
substantial progress to both our long term and new
shareholders.
Durable
investment
strategy suits
volatile
markets
Operating
profit up 127%
Future
dividend policy
based on two
times cover
AIM listing City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2006
3
their investments in the Group. At Admission,
these shareholders sold shares representing
approximately one quarter of the issued share
capital and these shares were placed with a
deliberately small list of high quality institutions.
I welcome our new shareholders and thank the
old ones for their support over a number of
years. Those shareholders who sold shares at
Admission agreed long term lock-in arrangements
in respect of their remaining holding, and all
directors and senior managers entered into
similar lock-in agreements.
City of London’s asset management activities are
principally focused on providing emerging market
products and services predominantly to
institutional investor clients who include some of
the United States’ leading blue chip institutions
and endowment funds. We manage Open Ended
Funds as well as a number of segregated accounts
from offices in London, the US and Singapore. 
During the year under review, we were successful in
winning new mandates but also further diversified
our asset management product portfolio with the
growth of our natural resources fund and the
seeding of three new funds: a global emerging
market fund, a frontier fund and an emerging
markets yield fund. In addition, the Group
commenced marketing its services and products in
Europe. It is our strategic objective to globalise our
business, building on the very strong base created in
the North American market. Although we believe
that there is scope for considerable growth in our
activities in the United States in particular, we aim
to diversify the client base to become a truly global
business. To that end we are actively marketing our
distinctive investment management services and
pursuing opportunities in Europe and the Far East.
Directors, management and staff
I am delighted to welcome our new non-executive
director, David Cardale, to the Board. David was
appointed at the time of our Admission to AIM.
David has spent his career in investment markets
with significant experience in corporate finance
and private equity in Europe and the United
States. He is a co-founder and Chairman of Global
Investor Relations, one of Europe’s leading
providers of online investor relations services.
Perhaps the principal benefit to the Company of
the Admission to AIM is our increased ability to
incentivise our staff and management through the
use of option schemes. The Group has put in place
schemes for staff in London, the US and Singapore
as well as for senior management. Directors and
employees now hold options to acquire a total of
4.75 million shares representing approximately
17.7% of the current issued share capital. Of the
total shares under option, some 2.25 million shares
(representing 8.4% of the issued share capital) are
over shares held by an employee share trust and on
exercise will therefore occasion no dilution. The
Board believes that the recruitment, motivation
and retention of talented people is vital to the
success of the Group and that these schemes can
give us a real advantage in so doing compared to
non-listed rivals.
Outlook
Our expertise in emerging markets, natural resources
and closed end funds in general is, we believe,
exportable to a wider and more geographically
diverse client base than that we currently serve. City
of London has the people, systems and culture in
place to enable this growth without the addition of
significant extra costs. Despite the current volatility
in emerging markets, we believe we are well placed
to deliver further growth. 
A Davison
Chairman
15th September 2006
Employee
equity
participation
A balanced
Board:
executive and
non-executive
Diversification
and
globalisation Investment performance drives our business
performance
