 Chief Executive Officer’s review
City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2006
5
I believe that one of the best ways of developing
close relationships is by being as open as possible
and I would hope that the information that you
will find within this document is both interesting
and useful. You will probably be well aware that
part of our work revolves around closed end
fund corporate governance, for this reason as
well, we feel bound to lead by example regarding
the quality of information disclosed to our
shareholders.
The past financial year
This past financial year, like the preceding two,
has allowed us to grow our business significantly.
Funds under management (“FUM”) increased
from $1,558 million to $2,750 million or,
measured in sterling, from £855 million to £1,471
million. However, we have recently experienced
significant £/$ currency volatility. Most of our fees
are paid in US dollars and are then repatriated
back to the United Kingdom. Please refer to the
Financial review on pages 8 to 9 for more details
regarding our hedging strategy and a table
showing the sensitivity of our income to moves
in the $/£ exchange rate.
Over the past year there has been significant demand
for our products, not just relating to emerging
markets closed end funds, but also via equities
providing natural resource exposure. By the end of
2005, we had closed all of our US-based emerging
market commingled funds to new investors. This was
principally because we were concerned regarding
their size and in our ability, in the event that they
grew significantly larger, to continue to outperform
versus the various emerging market benchmarks
via which we are measured. Separate from our
emerging market commingled accounts, over the
past year we have benefited from significant growth
in the area of segregated accounts as well.
Diversification
But to return for a moment to our Natural
Resources business, it is worth making the point
that this part of our business has grown from $73
million at end May 2004 to $193 million as of end
May 2006, which is the end of our financial year.
As at the end of August, this figure has increased
to $215 million, which was the end of our first
quarter this new financial year. 
This business, which is one of the areas of
diversification that we have embarked upon, invests
significantly in listed equities, rather than our
traditional area of closed end funds. We are
assuming, and planning, for this business to grow
substantially over the next few years. As with our
Closed End Fund business, we are positioned at the
performance end of the marketplace which focuses
on relative return products for institutional clients.
A possible new office
As a result of both the growth of the local stock
markets in the Middle East, and the growth of
interest in the region’s emerging markets from the
equity index providers, we are beginning to
consider the possibility of opening an office within
the Gulf Cooperation Council Region (GCC). The
GCC, when combined with other countries within
the Middle East, now represents in excess of 15%
of the S&P/IFC Global Emerging Markets Index.
As more securities from this region become
investable and as new issuance continues to grow,
it seems increasingly likely that we will need to
research this area on a daily basis in a manner that
could prove increasingly difficult from our offices in
London or Singapore. As a result of our risk-averse
approach to the development of our business, we
would only undertake this type of expansion if we
thought it would add significant value to our
investment process. If we proceeded, we would
This is our first Report and Accounts as a listed company
and I would like to let you know that we value you as a
shareholder in the City of London Investment Group.
Over the years, we have developed close relationships with
our clients and now that we have a number of new shareholders
we would like to develop close relationships with you too. 
Natural
resource
accounts
increase
by 166%
Total funds
under
management
grow
by 77%
Growing
significance of
Middle East
markets Chief Executive Officer’s review continued
City of London Investment Group Plc Annual Report 2006
6
additionally intend, over a period of time to use
this office to market City of London products. As
occurred in 1997 when we opened our US office,
and again in 2000 when we opened our Singapore
office, this office would be initially staffed by one
or two existing City of London employees.
Business continuity plans
I thought it wise to relay some information regarding
our Business Continuity Plans which would come
into play in the event that we had, as a firm, to deal
with some type of disaster scenario. First, we have
the advantage of three diverse offices, with most key
personnel having undertaken some form of training,
typically for a few weeks, in at least two if not all
three offices. On top of this, we have in place a
contract with NDR Ltd, a leading UK provider of
disaster recovery facilities, which could be called
upon to replace any loss of operating capability,
whether the result of something simple like a power
cut or something more calamitous such as a flood or
an explosion. This facility has been extensively tested,
as have our daily back up routines, the source of full
data and systems duplicates, which are stored off-site.
On top of this, all key staff have remote internet
access to the company’s servers, whether in the UK,
the US, or Singapore. Naturally, all of the above, plus
additional detail, is described in our disaster recovery
procedures, which are divided into two sections:
technical and operational.
Cost income ratio
One of the ratios that is often cited within the
investment management industry is the cost-income
ratio, with the industry average being around 65%.
City of London’s cost-income ratio last year was 56%
(after adjusting operating costs to strip out listing
costs and third party marketing commission, which
within this context is a reduction in fee income
rather than a cost). A substantial part of our
operating costs is represented by profit-share, as
described in more detail in the Financial review, and
the cost-income ratio adjusted to exclude these
variable costs was 38%. In other words, the “fixed”
overhead cost of supporting our FUM when
measured as a percentage of net fee income, was
38%. The  major components of our overheads are
personnel, premises, IT and communications, and
marketing and business development. We work hard
to  keep these items as low as possible whilst
continuing to take a very long-term view regarding
the development of our business.
Operational leverage
One of the advantages of maintaining a low ratio
of costs to FUM is the extent to which
Shareholders will benefit from the Operational
Leverage within our business that can develop as a
result of further growth in FUM. 
Over the next year we will be focusing upon
developing our business outside the US where
around 85% of our assets are currently sourced.
That is to say, that to the extent possible, we will
be seeking additional assets to manage in the UK,
Europe and the Far East.
Recently we seeded three new funds domiciled in
the Cayman Islands, these three funds are Natural
Resources, Emerging Markets and a Global Equity
Fund. With minor variations these funds will be
similar to existing City of London funds, they will
however be marketed outside North America thus
providing us with a new suite of Funds via which
we would intend to develop our business over the
next few years.
End of first quarter FUM
As of the end of August, total FUM was US$2,815
million. We are just over three months into the
year and in the difficult markets that we have
recently experienced I would like to point out that
investment performance has been maintained.
Thanks to CoL employees
Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues for
their hard work and continuing commitment in
what has been a challenging year. 
B M Olliff
Chief Executive Officer
15th September 2006
Significant
growth
potential for
funds under
management
and profit
Focus on
holding down
fixed overheads We focus on profits, margins and costs and use
technology to leverage capabilities
process
