 Annual Report 2011 5
Chief Executive Officer’s review
“As Corporate Governance is
such a topical subject at
present, I thought it would be
good to go through some of our
core values in this regard
which, as a result of us being
CEF specialists, are in some
instances a little nuanced.”
Looking back at our financial year to the end
of May 2011 it seems to have been in two
halves. During the first half, MXEF which,
as we have said before, is a good proxy for
measuring both what we do and also for our
investment performance, appreciated 25%.
In the second half of our financial year,
while demonstrating a little volatility, it
was relatively unchanged.
It was this period of sideways-moving
markets that has led to some widening of the
Discounts to NAV in several of the Closed-
End Funds (CEFs) in which we invest.
This has happened under similar
circumstances in the past. Whilst this has
impacted investment performance it has
also been seen by a few of our clients as an
opportunity to add further assets.
Going back through many cycles, the 
CEF industry seems to take advantage of
significant issuance opportunities when
relevant markets are doing well. We have
watched this time and time again. Retail
seems to support markets that are
appreciating, encouraging brokers and
investment banks (who as we say, have very
active minds!) to grow our industry via
rights issues and new issuance of additional
CEF products. While this is good for us 
in the long term as a result of providing
additional investment opportunities,
sometimes it can lead to an overhang.
When markets disappoint, and the
Emerging markets have now been trending
sideways for nearly a year, and discounts
become wide, we expect the reverse to
occur – that is, we expect corporate actions
to reduce the supply of CEF shares.
In our view responsibility for this lies with
the CEF Directors because it is unlikely
that a CEF Manager will volunteer to have
his fees reduced via some type of corporate
action such as a buy back, a tender offer or
an in specie distribution.
Bigger is better, seems to be the motto.
But smaller? Only if Shareholders insist!
That this has been going on for over 100
years is not in doubt. You just have to read
the history of the CEF sector to see that.
What we are referencing however are the
relevant events over the past twenty years
since we started our business.
In this regard the first really relevant
corporate governance document that we
produced was in 1999, our “Statement 
on Corporate Governance and Voting
Intentions for Closed-End Funds.” 
This was sent to all of our clients and
relevant Directors of the CEFs in which 
we invested at that time. Subsequently 
we have regularly updated this document,
with the last version, dated 2011,
having just been sent to our clients,
consultants and relevant CEF Directors.
It is also available on our website,
www.citlon.co.uk.
As Corporate Governance is such a topical
subject at present, I thought it would be
good to go through some of our core
values in this regard which, as a result of 
us being CEF specialists, are in some
instances a little nuanced.
First, an observation: it’s extraordinary the
extent to which the UK and the US are so
different in terms of the CEF regulatory
environment in which we work. Chief Executive Officer’s review
Continued
6 City of London Investment Group PLC
Regarding “Control” as an example. In the
UK, if a corporation owns 30% of a
company, that corporation will have to make
a bid. In the US, control is not rules-based,
but there are some principles that suggest
that ownership above 40% could be assumed
to imply “Control”. An additional subtlety is
that at 40% you would not have to make a
bid, rather you might be responsible for
“Short Swing Profits” which in the event that
it was proven would mean that you would
make a payment (a disgorgement of your
profits) to the relevant CEF .
In other areas too, London is simpler. In the
UK we know what 3% and 5% ownership
represents, but what about 13D’s, 13G’s
and 13F’s? These are all relevant parts of the
US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as
amended, but obtaining a clear definition
from a US lawyer of some of the more
subtle differences can be difficult.
V oting is different as well. In London CLIM
can vote “For” or “Against” a Director. That’s
easy, and in the event that a Director of a
fund in which we are invested does not meet
our criteria (please see our list on the
opposite page) then we will vote against him
or her. In the US it is much more opaque;
we can either vote “For” or “Withhold.” The
“Withhold” vote does absolutely nothing in
terms of airing a grievance and inevitably
there will be enough votes cast “For” to ensure
that the relevant Director is appointed.
In some cases, where a company has an
entire suite of CEFs, you’ll find Directors
collecting in excess of US$250,000 in fees
on an annual basis, and serving on more than
30 boards! In the table below, we’ve listed
several such Directors (names omitted) who
serve on the boards of some of the funds in
which we invest on behalf of our clients:
Board seats 
Date of first within the 
appointment combine Fees (US$)
2005 141 579,062
1996 133 508,000
2003 133 484,000
1994 133 468,000
1994 105 290,000
1991 104 400,000
1991 104 260,000
2006 38 511,000 
2008 31 355,000
1998 23 189,000
It should be noted that, apart from serving
on many Boards and receiving significant
fees, some of these Directors have been in
place for around 20 years!
Which brings me back to the topic of
independence.
In the UK, independence has a relevant
definition. In addition, we are able to
work within the UK Corporate
Governance Code and the AIB Guidelines
with the result that it is possible to
understand from a practical standpoint
how we should vote. Sometimes we look
to a higher standard, one that is more
relevant to CEFs, but the bottom line is
that our vote counts and there have been
a few recent examples of where we have
actually made a difference.
In the US, all of the above – the large
number of Directorships, the high fees, 
the excessive length of service – is legal 
and is also considered ethical. All of the
Directors referenced in the table are
regarded as Independent!
We have tried very hard to make the point
that having in excess of three or four
Directorships must be very time consuming.
Possibly four within a combine could be
contemplated, but this is where the
difference between the UK and the US
becomes even more pronounced.
First in the US, Board meetings are 
often batched. What this means is that in
some cases every 15 or 20 minutes a
different CEF’s Board Paper is reviewed.
The Board then moves on.
Further, and bearing in mind that these
Funds are fighting for recognition in a
crowded financial service marketplace, in
many instances investment matters are
discussed over dinner the previous night
and investment matters hardly factor in 
the actual Board Meeting at all!
An additional issue is that in just about
every US Board meeting that we hear
about, lawyers are effectively in “the Chair”.
The business of the Board meeting seems
to be largely about legal issues and the real
business of the company, which in our
opinion should be about investing, benchmarks, volatility and risk is forgotten.
Whether the Manager is actually doing a
good job is often discussed over dinner.
Put around the other way, surely, if
anything illegal was occurring this could 
be ascertained via a box-ticking exercise
with a relevant sign off, and the real reason
for holding the Board Meeting in the first
place (an agenda based upon investment
issues) could then occur.
The trouble with the US system as it
relates to CEFs is that Boards while
considering themselves independent are
not, and, more importantly, as we are
unable to vote “Against”, it means that
they are invariably reappointed.
There is however one remedy open to US
CEF shareholders and that is the ability to
propose termination of the investment
management contract, which is one of the
subtleties of the 1934 Act. In the event of 
a successful vote, it would require the
Directors to find another Manager and,
after a few attempts at this, the likely
outcome would be either liquidation or
some type of reduction in size that would
get rid of the shareholder promoting
the termination.
The trouble with the solution referenced
above is that in the US, the checks and
balances that can be demonstrated by a
sensibly constructed Board cannot occur.
First we do not get an opportunity to
place a relevant vote. Next, they the Board
spend a very short time actually asking
the right questions as they are limited
regarding time. Also, having responsibility
for many CEF’s does not help from
another perspective. They have little time
to listen and learn. You would say that
they should at the very least be expert in
their knowledge of the CEF industry;
we would suggest that they are neither
resourced adequately nor able to
demonstrate control over their brief.
In reality we would also suggest that they
are, on a Fund by Fund basis, underpaid.
From the table on page 6 it can be seen
that the average of the averages per fund
is around US$5,700. This is a small price
to pay for the responsibilities of a CEF
Director and we would suggest that it
should at least be four or five times that
amount, but we would also suggest that
boards be reduced to say five, that they
take on the responsibilities of a
conventional US Director directing a
corporation, that they oversee the Manager
and that they familiarise themselves with
the industry in which they work, that they
concern themselves with the
competitiveness of the product that they
have responsibility for… and yes that they
should give up those dinners!
Over the past few years the standards 
of corporate governance demonstrated by
the average UK CEF (I should say an
Investment T rust) Director has improved
significantly. It seems to be accepted that
having a “good” Board actually assists in
marketing, in potentially growing the
relevant fund (or at the very least not
overseeing shrinkage), and assisting with
regard to oversight of the Discounts to NAV
at which so many of these funds trade.
In no way am I suggesting that the UK 
is all good and the US is all bad. What I
would say is that at present it could be
said that based on a level playing field
from a tax perspective etc. the
opportunity to invest or raise money
knowing the above should favour the
UK Investment T rust industry.
As a shareholder you will be aware of the
fact that around 95% of our profits come
from our Closed-End Fund business. 
You will also be aware that we are an
institutional firm and that our 300
institutional clients make up 99% of our
assets. You will also be aware of our wish 
to diversify our business. 
Separate from our view regarding Closed-
End Funds which have been referenced in
some detail above, we have been
attempting to develop our business into
other areas away from the Emerging
Markets Closed-End Fund industry for
some time. Having originally been a single
product company focused on CEFs and
having recently ended a third party
relationship (North Bridge Capital are also
mentioned by Doug Allison our Finance
Director later in these accounts), the
marketing process has to be developed one
step at a time, as I referenced last year.
As you are aware we now have a number
of new products as shown in the
Business Review on page 10.
Annual Report 2011 7
In our opinion it:
Is able to demonstrate real
independence
Is correctly remunerated
Is resourced properly
Is available
Understands the Investment
Management industry
Has Directors who sit on no
more than four Boards
Has at least one Director
who understands the
Investment T rust industry
Is aware of issues surrounding
the Discount to NAV at
which Investment T rusts trade
Holds the investment
manager accountable and thus
understands the investment
process employed
Understands risk management
and sees the investment returns
achieved within that context
Views the Fund as a consumer
product and understands the
Fund’s peer group
Is regularly externally
evaluated
How do we measure 
a“good” Investment
Trust Board? 8 City of London Investment Group PLC
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Continued
Obviously having new products is only 
half of the story. They also need to be
performing well. In addition we need
marketing and we have recently taken 
on two additional experienced marketers.
One to complement our existing marketer
in the US and the other to develop our
marketing presence ex-US. As of the time
of writing our diversification products
represented US$143m of the total AUM 
of US$5.22bn that we manage. We are
anticipating significant progress this year
in terms of the development of our
diversification products.
Regarding the past year we have begun 
to benefit from the run off in the North
Bridge Capital contract. Doug Allison has
referenced this in the Financial review. 
As shareholders will be aware over the next
few years this should have a significant
effect on our margin.
Recent market volatility has seen FUM at
US$4.97bn at the low on 9th August
(MXEF: 968), recovering to US$5.22bn
at 31st August (MXEF: 1,033). This has
presented us with opportunities to
significantly benefit in terms of our
investment performance.
Cash, a defensive country allocation and
discount volatility have all played their
part recently in allowing us to create
significant alpha.
In an attempt to provide shareholders with
more up to date information regarding
FUM flows, reviewing the month to
31st August we have received three
redemption requests totalling US$10m
and have received commitments of just
over US$44m in additional funds.
Our clients have remained very sticky.
As a result of Board deliberations, in 2013
Doug Allison will become CEO. As with
many things at City of London this plan
has been in place for some time, and the
transition is expected to be seamless.
I would intend to retain my responsibilities
as CIO for at least another four years,
during which time our objective will be to
achieve an equally seamless transition of
the CIO role, thereby enabling me to
consider retirement.
Regarding my CLIG shareholding,
currently 3,632,580 shares, or 13.5%, 
I intend to continue with my long term
plan to reduce my holding at pre-defined
price intervals. As part of my tax planning
I have made a commitment to pass 
an additional 1,000,000 shares to the 
Newlin Foundation, which currently holds
472,207 shares. The Foundation and 
I will each make available for sale 250,000
shares at £4.50, and the same number
again at each of £5.00, £5.50 and £6.00.
I would like to thank all staff for your
ongoing contribution to the success of the
business, and for your loyalty, which has 
in many instances been demonstrated over
an extended period of time.
B MOlliff
Chief Executive Officer
1st September 2011
