 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
05
2008 - Y ear at a Glance
Dec Bloomsbury has three books – more than any other publisher – in the Top Ten Bestselling Books of 2008: Khaled
Hosseini’s The Kite Runner at number eight, JK Rowling’s The Tales of Beedle the Bard published by the Children’s 
High Level Group charity at number two, and A Thousand Splendid Suns at number one.
Nov Stalin’s Children by Owen Matthews is shortlisted for the Guardian First Book Award and is currently longlisted for the
Orwell Prize for Political Writing 2009.
Trauma by Patrick McGrath is shortlisted for the Costa Novel of the Y ear Award 2009.
Louis Sacher’s Someday Angeline, Benjamin Zephaniah’s Teacher’s Dead and Pippa Goodhart and AnnaLaura Cantone’s
Three Little Ghosties are shortlisted for the Sheffield Book Award.
Sharon Creech’s Heartbeat and Mark Walden’ s H.I.V .E. are chosen as part of the Booked Up scheme with over 65,000 
and 35,000 copies sold.
Oct Debut author Anne Zouroudi is shortlisted for the ITV3 Crime Thriller Breakthrough Award with The Messenger of Athens. 
100 Most Dangerous Things on the Planet by Anna Claybourne shortlisted for the Blue Peter Book Awards 2009 in the
Best Book with Facts category.
Billy Angel by Sam Hay longlisted for the UK Literacy Association Children’s Book Award 2009 (3-11).
Space Pirates and other Sci-Fi Stories by Tony Bradman chosen as a World Book Day 2009 Recommended Read for their
schools pack.
Sep The Snowball: Warren Buffett and the Business of Life by Alice Schroeder is shortlisted for the Financial Times/Goldman
Sachs Business Book of the Y ear. It also remained at number one in the Amazon Bestseller Chart for over a week.
Michael Rosen and Adrian Reynolds’ The Bear in the Cave is shortlisted for the Southampton Favourite Book to
Share Award.
Jul Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows is a Sunday Times number one bestseller again in paperback.
The Suspicions of Mr Whicher wins the BBC4 Samuel Johnson Prize for Non-fiction; it was also shortlisted for the Crime
Writers’ Association Gold Dagger for Non-Fiction and became a number one Sunday Times bestseller as well as a Richard
and Judy Book Club Pick for 2009. 
Red, Cherry, Red by Jackie Kay wins the CLPE Poetry Award.
Unaccustomed Earth by Jhumpa Lahiri wins the Frank O'Connor International Short Story Award; the judges were so
impressed that they dispensed with a shortlist. This book has since won the Commonwealth Writers’ Prize 2009.
Jun At the Guild of Food Writers’ Awards, Sarah Raven’s Garden Cookbook by Sarah Raven wins Cookery Book of the Y ear and
The River Cottage Fish Book by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall and Nick Fisher wins The Michael Smith Award for Work on
British Food. 
World War One veteran and Bloomsbury author, Harry Patch, celebrates his 110th birthday and his book The Last Fighting
Tommy becomes a Sunday Times bestseller again in paperback.
24 for 3 by Charles Boyle (writing as Jennie Walker) wins the McKitterick Prize.
Carol Ann Duffy and Jane Ray’s The Lost Happy Endings is shortlisted for the Kate Greenaway Medal.
Li Fu’s Great Aim selected for the School Library Association’s Riveting Reads: Boys into Books 5-11 and featured on the
cover. Also selected: James and the Alien Experiment and Triceratops.
May The Butt by Will Self wins the Bollinger Everyman Wodehouse Prize for Comic Writing and Shoot the Damn Dog by 
Sally Brampton wins the Good Housekeeping Award for Best Non-fiction Book of the Y ear. 
Nobel Prize-winning author Nadine Gordimer is shortlisted for the prestigious Best of the Booker Award with
The Conservationist.
The T ruth Commissioner by David Park wins the Kerry Group Irish Fiction Award.
David Kynaston’s Austerity Britain wins the Y orkshire Post Book of the Y ear Award.
Teacher’s Dead by Benjamin Zephaniah is shortlisted for the Red House Children’s Book Award.
Apr At the Galaxy British Book Awards, J K Rowling wins the Lifetime Achievement Award and Khaled Hosseini’s
A Thousand Splendid Suns wins the Richard and Judy Best Read of the Y ear Award. 
Mark Walden’ s H.I.V .E. is shortlisted for the North East Book Award and shortlisted for the Leeds Book Award in May.
Mar Neil Gaiman’s Odd and the Frost Giants is a World Book Day title and becomes a Sunday Times bestseller.
Feb Sunday Times bestseller Austerity Britain by David Kynaston is longlisted for the Orwell Prize for political writing. 
80971 PRE 1:80971 Bloomsbury Pre 1  21/4/09  18:19  Page 5
