 06
Chairman’s Statement
The transformation of Bloomsbury
continued in 2008 as it re-balances
its business in the wake of the
Harry Potter phenomenon and of
the demands of a global recession.
The Chief Executive’s statement
outlines the considerable work done
by him and the Executive members
of the Board in managing their
business units as they exploit the
growing potential of electronic 
and digital publishing, whilst
ensuring stability and efficiency 
in the Group’s traditional 
publishing business.
80971 PRE 1:80971 Bloomsbury Pre 1  21/4/09  18:20  Page 6 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
07
The transformation of Bloomsbury continued in 2008
as it re-balances its business in the wake of the Harry
Potter phenomenon and of the demands of a global
recession. The Chief Executive’s statement outlines
the considerable work done by him and the Executive
members of the Board in managing their business
units as they exploit the growing potential of
electronic and digital publishing, whilst ensuring
stability and efficiency in the Group’s traditional
publishing business.
This process of change is not complete, indeed 
such change, especially at times of economic stress,
tends to accelerate, but the performance of the Group
reflects the drive behind development of the new, 
and the rigour in management of the old. In the teeth
of the worst recession in living memory, the shape of
Bloomsbury is being changed to ensure the long-term
success of the Group.
Bloomsbury has a strong balance sheet. Cash is
critical at a time like this; it allows the Group latitude
for change, and for judicious and timely acquisitions to
strengthen its traditional businesses and to build new
technology-based publishing activities. It also takes
away the damaging distraction of untoward debt
management now preoccupying the Boards and
managements of many of its competitors and peers.
The Group’s obligation to all its stakeholders at a 
time like this is to avoid the excesses of acquisition
strategies which squander a valuable asset, and to
use its resources wisely to position it for the
economic recovery. The Board therefore regularly
reviews new acquisition prospects, judging the
relative impacts of the return of the Group’s cash
asset against the returns of new business assets
whose capital values are far from certain in current
conditions and could rapidly undermine any perceived
short- or long-term profit enhancement. Information
on the acquisitions it has made and the organic
growth initiatives of the Group are outlined in more
detail in this report.
The Executive team is both experienced and
committed to the long-term future of Bloomsbury.
These are proving to be invaluable human assets 
at a time when short-term opportunism has damaged
the values of companies across the commercial
spectrum. Nigel Newton, Founder and Chief Executive
of the Company over its 22 years, has deployed his
own talents and those of Richard Charkin and Colin
Adams to maximise the strengths of each, and
greater emphasis has been placed on the Board
Committees to exploit the role of the Non-Executive
Directors through the key functions of the Audit,
Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
This Group has an enviable reputation and brand 
value in and outside publishing. Those owe a great
deal to the professionalism and dedication of its staff,
including some of the most respected professionals 
in the industry. Whether recruited to support the
growing new businesses of the Group, or forming
part of that long-standing and committed community
behind the long history of Bloomsbury’s component
parts, they have worked tirelessly and loyally through
conditions more challenging than any can remember.
Those conditions are not over yet and the Board 
and all the Group’s stakeholders owe them a strong
vote of thanks for the role they play in the future 
of Bloomsbury.
Jeremy J O’B Wilson
Non-Executive Chairman
80971 PRE 1:80971 Bloomsbury Pre 1  21/4/09  18:20  Page 7
