 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
8
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Overview
This excellent set of results, ahead of consensus market forecasts 
and in a difficult environment against a strong comparative year, 
demonstrates the strength of the portfolio of revenue streams in 
the Group. The growth in the Specialist Division was augmented by 
the acquisitions of the legal and tax publisher Tottel, now renamed 
Bloomsbury Professional, and the Hodder Education Humanities 
list. Both have performed well and made good contributions to  
the Group.
In the second half of 2009 the Trade Division launched one of its 
strongest lists to date. Major titles included River Cottage Every Day 
by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, The Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston 
Blumenthal and Ordinary Thunderstorms by William Boyd. Major 
backlist sellers included A Thousand Splendid Suns and The Kite 
Runner by Khaled Hosseini, Eat, Pray, Love by Elizabeth Gilbert, the 
seven Harry Potters, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher by Kate 
Summerscale and The Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by 
Mary Ann Shaffer and Annie Barrows.
In November 2009 Borders, the UK retail bookshop chain, closed. 
While the amount owed to us by Borders was covered by existing 
bad debt provisions, the long-term impact is a reduced number of 
high-street booksellers. At the same time we are seeing an increase 
in online book sales, partially offsetting the high-street retail decline.
E-book revenues are small but growing and there has been a 
considerable uplift in activity in the last twelve months including the 
Amazon Kindle released internationally. We are looking for 
opportunities to create new revenue streams from our digital files by 
content aggregation and innovative marketing.
Financial Performance
Revenue for the Group was £87.22m (2008, £99.95m including 
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in paperback and The Tales
of Beedle the Bard). Revenues from the UK were £58.89m (2008, 
£71.06m). Revenues from the US were £18.78m (2008, £17.32m). 
Revenues from Continental Europe generated by Berlin Verlag 
were £9.55m (2008, £11.57m).
The Board manages the financial performance of the Group based 
on the geographic location of its operating units and subsidiaries. 
Accordingly, the paragraphs which follow discuss financial 
performance separately for operations based in the UK, North 
America and Continental Europe. The Group has also entered into 
various arrangements to provide management services to entities in 
Qatar. These entities are not controlled by the Group and 
accordingly are not consolidated. The Group earns management 
and consultancy income from these contracts and financial 
performance under these contracts is discussed according to the 
geographic location of the Bloomsbury operating unit providing 
these services.
Profit before tax for the Group was £7.13m (2008, £11.63m). Profit 
before tax before intangibles amortisation and goodwill impairment 
was £7.71m (2008, £11.85m). Basic earnings per share was 6.77 pence 
(2008, 10.67 pence). Diluted earnings per share was 6.74 pence (2008, 
10.67 pence). Basic earnings per share before intangibles 
amortisation and goodwill impairment was 7.56 pence (2008, 10.96 
pence). Diluted earnings per share before intangibles amortisation 
and goodwill impairment was 7.53 pence (2008, 10.96 pence).
At the year end the Group had net cash balances of £35.04m (2008, 
£51.91m) after the net cash consideration of £10.31m (2008, £7.43m) 
paid for the two (2008, four) acquisitions made during the reporting 
period. We continue to invest in future growth through acquiring 
new authors and titles and specialist publishing companies. Our  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
9
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors Report – Business Review
Directors Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
strong balance sheet puts us in an excellent position to take 
advantage of these opportunities as they arise. As at 31 December 
2009 the Group had under contract 1,073 titles (2008, 1,139) for 
future publication, with a gross investment of £23.7m (2008, £26.4m). 
After payment of the initial tranches of advances to authors, our 
liability for future cash payments on these contracted titles at that 
date was £13.4m (2008, £15.6m). The reduction in the number of 
titles in our forward publishing programme is part of our strategy to 
give greater focus on each title published and increase the potential 
to create bestsellers.
UK
The UK performance was very good even compared to the previous 
year which saw the release of Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows in 
paperback.
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
10
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Bloomsbury increased its presence in academic and professional 
publishing with the acquisition of Tottel Publishing, now renamed 
Bloomsbury Professional, and Hodder Education’s Higher Education 
Humanities list in July. Both have comfortably matched our 
expectations for 2009. The Bloomsbury Professional list has proved 
highly resilient in the face of the difficult economic climate. Many of 
the titles remain essential publications and are part of routine 
expenditure by law and accounting firms.
Notable successes in 2009 included Documentary Credits (4th ed) and 
Joint Ventures and Shareholders’ Agreements (3rd ed), both aimed at 
the top end of the commercial law market. Subscription and 
loose-leaf publishing remained strong throughout the year. The Irish 
Legal System (5th ed), the standard first year undergraduate text 
book, was a major success. The Scottish law market held up 
extremely well, and 2nd edition of Drafting Wills in Scotland was well 
received. The key to driving revenue growth for Bloomsbury 
Professional is the migration of our content to an online platform. 
We are also continuing to search for law and tax acquisitions to build 
critical mass.
At Berg, our Oxford-based academic publisher, sales in 2009 
exceeded expectations, with impressive growth in journals sales. 
Berg has launched seven journals in the past four years and 
acquired three, and the investment in these new titles is now 
resulting in double digit growth in revenue both in 2009 and 
projected for 2010. Subscription publications are more recession-
resistant than other print products, are less price sensitive, are sold 
direct to the customer at low discount and subscription income is 
received upfront. Berg’s journals are essential for academics in their 
respective subject areas and are less susceptible to library cuts. 
Berg’s sales to the higher education sector, as with other lists in the 
Specialist division, have benefited from the 6% increase in student 
numbers in the UK since September 2009. These counter-cyclical 
qualities are another reason for Bloomsbury’s increased investment 
in professional and academic publishing.
A&C Black www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
11
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
THE ARDEN SHAKESPEARE
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Bloomsbury Academic’s digital platform will be launched in May 
2010 and the digital subscription-based Berg Fashion Library in May 
2010, a substantial academic resource aimed at academics and 
students of fashion, costume and the applied arts, which will be sold 
and distributed by Oxford University Press (‘OUP’). The fit between 
the Berg Fashion Library and OUP’s Grove Dictionary of Art is 
excellent. Berg has recently agreed an image bank partnership with 
the Victoria and Albert Museum to display its costume images within 
the Library. Later in 2010 we are publishing the ten-volume Berg 
Encyclopedia of World Dress and Fashion. This monumental work, the 
work of hundreds of scholars and experts worldwide, will be 
Bloomsbury’s most substantial new reference work in 2010.
Several long-term projects are under way in the Gulf. In September 
2008 a publishing company was established in Doha by the Qatar 
Foundation which will publish children’s books, novels, non-fiction 
for adults and children, academic monographs and reference works 
both in Arabic and in English. The mission of Bloomsbury Qatar 
Foundation Publishing (BQFP) is also to promote reading and writing 
development and to transfer publishing skills into Qatar. Excellent 
progress was made on all fronts during 2009 under our 
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
12
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Bloomsbury Academic Bloomsbury Professional
management service contract with Qatar Foundation. BQFP brought 
out a dual-language Arabic/English edition of The Selfish Crocodile in 
April 2009 to mark Qatar’s first World Book Day which BQFP 
spearheaded in association with the UK’s World Book Day 
organisation and Qatar University. BQFP also hosted book groups, 
writing and reading courses and other reading development 
initiatives. The first publishing list will be launched in April with the 
Arabic language edition of the The Gruffalo as the lead children’s 
title and on the adult side Nothing To Lose But Your Life (in Arabic and 
English) by Suad Amiry, the Palestinian writer whose first novel  
Sharon and My Mother-in-Law was an international success. The 
cultural collaboration of Britain and Qatar will be celebrated by a 
reception hosted by Her Majesty the Queen and the Duke of 
Edinburgh at Windsor Castle in April to mark the launch of 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing.
In September we published QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource. The 
website (www.qfinance.com) and the book were launched with 
major events in Doha, London and New York. QFINANCE, the result of 
Bloomsbury’s partnership with the Qatar Financial Centre Authority, 
is a comprehensive information resource focused on best practice 
for finance professionals.
In 2009 Bloomsbury Academic implemented its organic growth 
strategy and also acquired the 300 title upper level Humanities 
textbook backlist from Hodder Education. Textbook sales exceeded 
expectations as student numbers expanded during the year. Earlier 
in the year iFactory was appointed to develop the Bloomsbury Digital 
Platform. Bloomsbury Academic will be the first imprint of the Group 
launching its new website on the platform in the spring of 2010. 
Academic library purchasing, which is core to the monograph 
programme, is moving to e-books quite rapidly now, especially in 
the USA. The transition to e-book sales holds exciting opportunities as 
multimedia content is added by authors to enhance scholarly 
communications.
Arden Shakespeare, acquired in December 2008, was incorporated 
into our core drama list alongside Methuen Drama. The list has 
already benefited from Methuen Drama’s specialist sales and 
marketing in the UK. In the USA Arden was launched as part of 
the new US publishing division, Bloomsbury Academic and 
Professional. Arden released Double Falsehood in March 2010, 
the controversial play which Shakespeare was said to have  
contributed to. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
13
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Berg Publishing Bloomsbury Information
BQFP , BQFJ
John Wisden and Co is now fully integrated into A&C Black. Sales of 
the Almanack were increased in 2009, partly as a result of a 
marketing partnership with the county cricket boards and the 
Middlesex County Cricket Club. Wisden Cricketers’ Almanack was 
published in e-book format for the first time in 2009, along with an 
e-book Wisden Collection for libraries.
In response to the growing number of e-book retailers and increased 
demand for digital content, more than one thousand of A&C Black 
books will be offered for sale as e-books in 2010. Two significant new 
ornithology e-book collections in 2010 will be The Poyser Library and 
The Helm Family Guides, which will be available as e-books and as 
print on demand editions. Many of these titles have long been out of 
print and are sought after by collectors and ornithologists.
We will also be publishing with a range of partners who link us to our 
markets, including The Federation of Small Businesses (Good Small 
Business Guide), The Royal Shakespeare Company (The RSC Toolkit for 
Teachers), The RSPB (including Gardening for Wildlife) and The 
Wildlife Trust (Birds in Your Garden). We have also entered into an 
important new CD-publishing agreement for theatre titles with The 
Royal Academy of Dramatic Art (RADA).
Chief Executive’s Statement Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
14
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement
Adult
2009 was a year where we benefited from enduring bestsellers across 
the Adult list, many of them from our backlist. One of the strongest 
sellers in the year was Kate Summerscale’s The Suspicions of Mr 
Whicher, winner of the Samuel Johnson Prize, Richard & Judy 
Bookclub Best Read and the Galaxy Book of the Year, reaching No. 1 
on The Sunday Times non-fiction paperback bestseller list. The two 
Khaled Hosseini novels, The Kite Runner and A Thousand Splendid 
Suns, sold strongly all year. Our word-of-mouth bestseller, Eat, Pray, 
Love, continues to sell robustly with a film starring Julia Roberts in the 
pipeline. We had a Richard & Judy bookclub title in Sue Miller’s new 
novel, The Senator’s Wife, an Orange Prize shortlist in Kamila 
Shamsie’s Burnt Shadows and a new word-of-mouth bestseller in The 
Guernsey Literary and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann Shaffer and 
Annie Barrows. New novels were published by three of Bloomsbury’s 
biggest authors  – Margaret Atwood, John Irving and William Boyd 
– and by a new author to our list, Colum McCann, with his novel Let 
the Great World Spin, which won the National Book Award and went 
to No. 1 in the Irish bestseller list.
Non-fiction bestsellers included The Last Fighting Tommy, The Life of 
Harry Patch; Richard van Emden’s Sapper Martin; Family Britain, 
David Kynaston’s follow up to Austerity Britain; and the follow up to 
Al Gore’s bestseller Inconvenient Truth, Our Choice. 2009 also saw the 
addition to the list of Monty Don with his Ivington Diaries and the 
extraordinary success of two food titles: River Cottage Every Day by 
Hugh Fearnley Whittingstall and The Fat Duck Cookbook by Heston 
Blumenthal.
2010 got off to a great start with the new Elizabeth Gilbert, 
Committed; Operation Mincemeat, the new book by Ben McIntyre 
(author of bestseller Agent Zigzag), was number 1 for four weeks; and 
the paperback of Liz Jensen’s Rapture was chosen for the new TV 
Book Club. Highlights of the year ahead also include the film tie-in 
edition of Eat, Pray, Love, the paperback of William Boyd’s Ordinary 
Thunderstorms, and new novels by Barbara Trapido, Sue Miller and 
Jon McGregor, whose Even the Dogs has been tipped for the Man 
Booker Prize. Highlights for the autumn in non-fiction include the 
Authorised History of the Secret Intelligence Service and a companion 
to the hit TV series Cranford. We continue to build our highly 
successful food list, to concentrate on building and promoting our 
backlist and we will also be publishing more up-market crime fiction. 
Five crime novels will be published in 2010 and the ex chief of MI5, 
Stella Rimmington, has joined Bloomsbury with a two-book deal. We 
continue to find and nurture new talent. We will publish eight first  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
15
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Business Review
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor's Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Children’s
novels in 2010, one of which has been chosen for a major bookshop 
promotion, and another of which has been longlisted for the  
Impac Prize.
On the Children’s list The Graveyard Book by international best-selling 
author Neil Gaiman was published simultaneously in an adult as well as 
a children’s edition. It won the Teenage Children’s Book Award and 
has been longlisted for the Carnegie Medal. Troubadour by Mary 
Hoffman was shortlisted for the Costa Award for Children’s Literature.
Harry Potter performed extremely well during the year and sales 
increased on the back of the success of the sixth film, Harry Potter and 
the Half-Blood Prince. Sales of the boxed sets were particularly good. 
We have an extensive programme of rejacketing Harry Potter which 
will be launched in July. The film of HP7 is released in November.
In June 2010 we have a new book by bestselling author of Holes Louis 
Sachar entitled The Cardturner.
We launched Bloomsbury’s Public Library Online in May 2009, a 
concurrent-user online-access subscription service to deliver 
themed digital bookshelves into UK public libraries. Themes include 
Reading Groups, Children’s History, Teen Fiction, Wisden and Arden 
Shakespeare. Online access sold on a subscription model is a proven 
digital delivery model for reference books which we have extended 
to trade fiction and non-fiction. This has already sold into many 
library authorities nationwide providing online access to 3.5m 
potential users. In March 2010 we rebranded as Bloomsbury’s Public 
Library Online. Faber have joined it with a Poetry shelf and Quercus 
with a Crime shelf, including the international bestselling author 
Stieg Larsson. We are in discussion with other UK publishers with a 
view to expanding this initiative to provide a wide range of 
bestsellers digitally to UK public libraries enabling them to remain 
relevant to their local communities. Berlin Verlag has also launched a 
German language version and there is potential for further overseas 
development. Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
16
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
US
The US turned in a good performance for the year. The Academic list 
was also launched. In 2010 the A&C Black list, which has previously 
been sold by a third-party agency, will become part of the new 
Bloomsbury Academic and Professional Division in the US. The 
Methuen and Arden lists are already being sold through the Division 
and are becoming a significant force in the US drama market. The 
benefits of this strategy are bearing fruit as it is enabling greater 
focus on growing the lists by means of a dedicated US marketing 
team, a presence at the major academic conferences and 
countrywide sales representation. Berg’s US list will join them in 2011.
Bloomsbury’s new relationship in Qatar agreed in December 2009 is 
to develop a global academic and research journals publishing 
business for Qatar Foundation in Doha using the Open Access 
publishing model via a digital online publishing portal. This venture 
is owned by Qatar Foundation and will be managed by Bloomsbury 
Information Limited. These long-term database and management 
contracts with leading organisations are part of our strategy to grow 
the specialist business.
My Horizontal Life was in the top 15 on The New York Times paperback 
non-fiction list every week during 2009. Logicomix was on The New 
York Times paperback graphic novel bestseller list for 18 weeks and 
Methland two weeks on the extended The New York Times hardcover 
non-fiction bestseller list. The Children’s list had a number of strong 
performing titles including Perfect Chemistry by Simone Elkeles, 
Freckleface Strawberry and The Dodgeball Bully by Julianne Moore 
which was on The New York Times bestseller list for six weeks. Disney 
released The Princess and the Frog which is based on ED Baker’s The 
Frog Princess published by Bloomsbury USA and this has provided 
the opportunity to re-promote her backlist.
Germany
The German market proved to be a difficult one for Berlin Verlag 
with its first operating loss since 2004. Some key titles did not meet 
expectations including the paperback of Jonathan Littell’s Die 
Wohlgesinnten, the hardcover of which had been a major bestseller 
in the previous year. The backlist continued to hold up well with 
ongoing sales from Khaled Hosseini’s The Kite Runner as well as 
Elizabeth Gilbert’s Eat, Pray, Love. The paperback publication of 
Khaled Hosseini’s A Thousand Splendid Suns quickly made its way to 
the top of the bestseller list and became one of the top selling titles 
of the year for Berlin.
Working closely with customers we have made reductions in the 
initial print runs for books which has reduced the risk of overstocks. 
The print contract for the paperback list was moved to the UK at the 
beginning of 2010 as UK prices are considerably lower.
Berlin Verlag sells and distributes Bloomsbury UK’s English language 
books and the underlying revenues have seen a consistent 
year-on-year increase. Building on the success of this we have 
moved A&C Black and Arden from their third-party sales agency 
arrangements to Berlin’s sales force in January 2010. This will give 
increased focus on the list and will also retain within the Group the 
commission paid on those sales. This revenue stream is also growing 
as Berlin now provides sales and distribution to other publishers. . 
Two publishers, Parthas and Blumenbar, are due to join in 2010.
Berlin is a trade publishing house and its performance is driven by 
the number of bestsellers it publishes each year. To provide greater 
earnings potential we will be starting an English and German 
language academic business in 2010 specialising in the Humanities 
and Social Sciences. The first titles will be published in 2011.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 3.65 pence per 
share (2008, 3.47 pence) making a total of 4.43 pence per share 
(2008, 4.22 pence) for the year. This represents a 5% increase in the 
full-year dividend. The final dividend will be payable on 1 July 2010 
to Ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 
21 May 2010.
Management and staff
I would like to thank all my colleagues for their tremendous 
contribution in a very busy year where we have seen major strategic 
as well as operational achievements. I would also like to thank 
Charles Black and Mike Mayer, who will retire as Non-Executive 
Directors during the year, for their profound contribution to the 
Board. They will be greatly missed.
Current trading, developments and prospects
We have a strong balance sheet with in excess of £35m on deposit, 
and, though investment income will be less than in 2009 due to the 
reduction in interest rates and lower average cash balances, we are 
in a good position to expand our Specialist operation in the UK, US 
and Germany as we make new acquisitions, and to pursue organic 
growth for our existing Divisions.
Business Review: Chief Executive’s Statement www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
17
Stock Code: BMY
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
Chief Executive’s Statement
‘
This is a strong set of results, achieved under difficult trading 
conditions, and demonstrates the strength of our increasingly 
diverse revenue streams. We have further strengthened our 
academic and professional division with the two new acquisitions.
’
Nigel Newton Chief Executive
For the 2010 financial period we will be moving the year-end to the 
end of February. The 2010 interim will be to 30 June and we will have 
an additional interim report as at 31 December with a full period-end 
reporting on 28 February 2011. With the sixty day reporting deadline 
for the interim accounts we are finding it increasingly difficult to see 
shareholders and get the maximum level of press coverage as many 
other companies announce their results at the same time. This 
change will enable us to identify returns of unsold copies we will 
receive from the book trade after the Christmas selling season.
This is a strong set of results, achieved under difficult trading 
conditions, and demonstrates the strength of our increasingly 
diverse revenue streams. We have further strengthened our 
academic and professional division with the two new acquisitions. 
Trading has been excellent in the first quarter of 2010 with a range of 
new bestsellers (including the No. 1 bestseller Operation Mincemeat) 
and a major six figure rights deal in January.
The two Qatar management services partnerships will have an 
important year in 2010. Three major movies, Nanny McPhee and the 
Big Bang; Eat, Pray, Love; and Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
Part One, will drive further sales of these proven bestsellers in 2010. 
The success of Bloomsbury’s Public Library Online initiative and 
other Bloomsbury innovations will see us at the forefront of the 
digital opportunity. The marketplace will remain rocky in 2010 and 
will continue to throw the unexpected at all businesses but I am 
confident that Bloomsbury is as well positioned as it could be to 
prosper in this environment with our high hit rate in trade 
publishing, our expansion in academic and professional publishing, 
our strong balance sheet and our entrepreneurial mission.
Nigel Newton
Founder and Chief Executive
30 March 2010
E-book revenues are small but growing and there has been a considerable uplift in 
activity in the last twelve months including the Amazon Kindle released internationally. 
We are looking for opportunities to create new revenue streams from our digital files by 
content aggregation and innovative marketing.
Bloomsbury digital expansion
