 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
6
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Chairman’s Statement
The last year has been one of the most turbulent since the 
Depression. Across the world it has challenged the economic survival 
of country, corporation and consumer alike. It has accelerated a shift 
of the world’s economic axis. And it is engendering a fundamental 
reassessment of political ideology across the planet as governments 
have sought to play their part in keeping the ship afloat. The world 
has been brought together by the crisis, and yet new divisions are 
emerging as a result.
I can think of no other conditions like them in living memory – in the 
corporate world they have tested to the limit the fundamental ethos 
and strategies of business organisations. Some have been found 
wanting and their businesses have collapsed. Others have 
prospered, their businesses reinforced and their competitive 
positions enhanced.
Bloomsbury entered the crisis with a clear strategy, a strong financial 
position, an experienced and established management team, a 
strengthened governance structure, and the enduring 
determination of its Founder and Chief Executive, Nigel Newton, and 
the Executive Directors on the Board, Richard Charkin and Colin 
Adams, to preserve the entrepreneurialism and cultural backbone 
which have driven this Company and the Group for almost a quarter 
of a century.
That strategy involves the stabilisation of the Group’s revenue 
streams through the steady development of its Professional and 
Academic arm, the further growth of its successful ventures in the 
Gulf, constant and rigorous attention to its core trade publishing 
activities and digitisation of its activities across the entire Group.
Behind this strategy lies a deep and almost instinctive understanding 
of the transformational forces at work in the publishing industry and 
an ability to respond to them. Thus, for example, the key acquisitions 
in building the Group have been in the Specialist arm of the Group 
– they have been targeted and measured, are integrating well and 
have all been manageable and within the financial resources of the 
Group. The new Qatar ventures have been beneficial to Bloomsbury, 
but they have also widened the cultural bandwidth of the Group 
with a country with the highest potential, resources and influence in 
the Middle East. The unremitting housekeeping of the Trade arm of 
the Group has seen its US business revived and a steady, sustaining 
flow of revenues from the core activity which forms the basis of a 
good publishing company. In all these activities, digitisation of the 
platforms, delivery systems and infrastructure has been an 
underlying driver. The growing force and opportunities of new 
delivery systems for the published product is a constant reference 
point for the Board and the Group’s management.
These and other initiatives fit within a strategy which has served the 
Group well when others have been found wanting. Bloomsbury is in 
good shape to capitalise on the potential of the year ahead.
Charles Black will retire at this year’s Annual General Meeting. His 
wisdom, balance and deep understanding of the publishing 
industry will be sorely missed. He brought into Bloomsbury A&C 
Black, a five generation business founded by his family in 1807. A&C 
Black is core to Bloomsbury’s Academic and Professional business. 
Charles is the Senior Independent Director of the Group and 
Chairman of its Audit and Remuneration Committees. There is no 
replacing such a mix of talent, intuition and integrity and Charles 
leaves behind an enduring legacy which will benefit all the Group’s 
stakeholders for decades to come.
Michael Mayer, according to The Combined Code on Corporate 
Governance, loses his independence and will retire at the end of his 
ninth year. A good company is constantly balancing the costs of 
conformance governance (not necessarily consistent with good 
governance) with the economics of a vibrant and successful 
business, and Michael, through his incisive grasp of the economics of 
business, invaluable knowledge of the process of acquisition 
economics and corporate financial husbandry, a deep and abiding 
loyalty to the Group and his instinctive understanding of the role of 
the Non-Executive Director, has made an immense contribution to 
Bloomsbury and challenged this balance to the limit. His departure 
at the end of this year is a sad one for the Group and he, too, will be 
sorely missed.
On behalf of the Group and all its stakeholders, I thank them both for 
their invaluable contribution – a contribution impossible to 
recognise fully in a few words on a sheet of paper.
However, change brings opportunity, and the Nominations 
Committee is well advanced, using the services of an independent 
search firm, in the selection of two new Directors from an impressive 
list of candidates to replace Charles and Michael when they retire.
Finally, the contribution of each and every one of the people who 
work in this Group cannot be overstated. Led by an Executive team 
strengthened the year before last by Richard Charkin’s arrival – now  www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
7
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
67
85
1
18
20
Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows 
by JK Rowling
1
The Kite Runner 
by Khaled Hosseini
18
The Little Friend 
by Donna Tartt
85
Imperial Life in the Emerald City 
by Rajiv Chandrasekaran
67
Schott's Original Miscellany 
by Ben Schott
20
BOOKS THAT
DEFINED THE 
DECADE
a key management asset of the Group – it is they who have 
ensured that its strategy is executed and its ethos and culture 
developed and enhanced. The acquisitions have brought 
with them talent and skills which have enriched Bloomsbury 
and the conditions of the last two years have toughened and 
seasoned the entire team. On behalf of the Board and all the 
stakeholders of this Group, they have our sincere thanks.
In summary, driven by a team of dedicated professionals 
working throughout this Group, it is the Board’s intention 
that Bloomsbury will continue to change and adapt to the 
rapidly developing dynamics of the publishing industry. It is 
far from certain that the turbulence of the past two years is 
over, but the Group is well placed to exploit the opportunities 
of the future.
Jeremy Wilson
Chairman
30 March 2010
Bloomsbury
Hits The Top Spot
Chairman’s Statement
