 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2009
2
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Group at a Glance
Specialist Publishing Division
30% of Group Turnover
Bloomsbury Professional 
Law and Tax
Bloomsbury Academic
Scholarly
A&C Black
Reference Publishing
	 John Wisden and Co is now fully 
integrated into A&C Black. Sales of the 
Almanack were increased in 2009, partly 
as a result of a marketing partnership 
with the county cricket boards and the 
Middlesex County Cricket Club. Wisden 
Cricketers’ Almanack was published in 
e-book format for the first time in 2009, 
along with an e-book Wisden Collection 
for libraries.
	 Arden Shakespeare, acquired in 
December 2008, was incorporated into 
our core drama list alongside Methuen 
Drama. The list has already benefited 
from Methuen Drama’s specialist sales 
and marketing in the UK. In the USA 
Arden was launched as part of 
the new US publishing division, 
Bloomsbury Academic and Professional.
	 In 2009 Bloomsbury Academic 
implemented its organic growth 
strategy and also acquired the 300 title 
Humanities backlist from Hodder 
Education. 
	 At Berg, the Oxford based academic 
publisher, sales in 2009 exceeded 
expectations, with impressive growth in 
journals sales. 
	 Bloomsbury increased its presence in 
academic and professional publishing 
with the acquisition of Tottel Publishing, 
now renamed Bloomsbury Professional.
	 Notable successes in 2009 included 
Documentary Credits (4th ed) and Joint 
Ventures and Shareholders’ Agreements 
(3rd ed), both aimed at the top end 
of the commercial law market. 
Subscription and loose-leaf publishing 
remained strong throughout the year. 
The Irish Legal System (5th ed), the 
standard first year undergraduate text 
book, was a major success.
Bloomsbury Information
BQFP, BQFJ, Q Finance 
	 QFINANCE – The Ultimate Resource was 
published in September. The website 
(www.qfinance.com) and the book 
were launched with major events in 
Doha, London and New York.
	 Excellent progress was made on all 
fronts during 2009 under our 
management service contract with 
Qatar Foundation. BQFP brought out a 
dual-language Arabic/English edition 
of The Selfish Crocodile in April 2009 to 
mark Qatar’s first World Book Day 
which BQFP spearheaded in association 
with the UK’s World Book Day 
organisation and Qatar University. www.bloomsbury-ir.co.uk
3
Stock Code: BMY
Highlights & Overview
Directors’ Report – Business Review
Directors’ Report – Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Independent Auditor’s Report
Company & Shareholders Information
Remuneration Report
17375	 21/04/2010	 Proof	6
Group at a Glance
Trade Publishing Division
70% of Group Turnover
Berlin Verlag
German Trade Publishing
Bloomsbury USA
Trade and Specialist
Bloomsbury UK
Trade Publishing
	 2009 was a year where we benefited from 
enduring bestsellers across the Adult list, 
many of them from our backlist. 
	 Strong sales were driven by an excellent 
publishing programme including River 
Cottage Everyday by Hugh Fearnley 
Whittingstall, The Suspicions of Mr Whicher 
by Kate Summerscale, The Guernsey Literary 
and Potato Peel Pie Society by Mary Ann 
Shaffer and Annie Barrows, Ordinary 
Thunderstorms by William Boyd and The Fat 
Duck Cookbook by Heston Blumenthal.
	 On the Children’s list The Graveyard Book  
by best-selling author Neil Gaiman was 
published simultaneously in an adult as well 
as a children’s edition. It won the Teenage 
Children’s Book Award and has been long 
listed for the Carnegie Medal. Troubadour by 
Mary Hoffman was short-listed for the Costa 
Award for Children’s Literature.
	 Harry Potter performed extremely well 
during the year and sales increased on the 
back of the success of the sixth film, Harry 
Potter and the Half-Blood Prince.
	 We launched Bloomsbury’s Public Library 
Online in May 2009, a concurrent-user 
online-access subscription service to deliver 
themed digital bookshelves into UK public 
libraries. Berlin Verlag has also launched a 
German language version and there is 
potential for further overseas 
development.
	 The US turned in a good performance for 
the year, particularly in children’s books. 
The Academic list was also launched.
	 My Horizontal Life was in the top 15 on The 
New York Times paperback non-fiction list 
every week during 2009. Logicomix was on 
The New York Times paperback graphic 
novel bestseller list for 18 weeks and 
Methland two weeks on the extended The 
New York Times hardcover non-fiction 
bestseller list.
	 Disney released The Princess and the Frog 
which is based on ED Baker’s The Frog 
Princess published by Bloomsbury USA and 
this has provided the opportunity to 
re-promote her backlist.
	 The backlist continued to hold up well with 
ongoing sales from Khaled Hosseini’s The 
Kite Runner as well as Elizabeth Gilbert’s Eat, 
Pray, Love. The paperback publication of 
Khaled Hosseini’s A Thousand Splendid Suns 
quickly made its way to the top of the 
bestseller list and became one of the top 
selling titles of the year for Berlin.
