 www.clarksons.com 9
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Strategic report Chairman’s review
Overview
2016 has been another challenging year for shipping markets, 
characterised by continued difficult trading conditions and tonnage 
oversupply. Freight rates have seen historic lows in some sectors 
during the year whilst in the second half volatility has been added, 
on the upside, by the strengthening of the US dollar (the currency 
of the great majority of our revenues) and, less positively, by the 
weakness of the pound sterling against several of the currencies  
in which our overhead costs are incurred. Against this uncertain 
backdrop, we are pleased Clarksons has delivered a robust 
performance and, once again, value for our shareholders. We have 
remained focused on our core strategy of delivering continuous 
service enhancement, thus offering Clarksons’ clients the unique 
breadth of product and global reach that has enabled us to 
maintain, and in many cases extend, our leading position in our 
markets. One significant and virtuous outcome of this has been 
the actual growth of our broking transaction volumes in 2016, as 
has the healthy cash generation underlying our profit performance.
We have continued to invest in the technology to drive innovation 
across our business and we regard our focus in this area to be a 
key differentiator and source of even greater competitive 
advantage for the future; our research capability already underpins 
our full client service offering, and in 2017 we intend to offer further 
knowledge and data based initiatives to our clients. Our position at 
the heart of the shipping and offshore markets has ensured that in 
these difficult times, clients have turned to Clarksons for our deep 
sector knowledge and tailored ability to service their requirements; 
our capacity to offer both broking and a range of financial market 
solutions creates synergies and outcomes that are not 
available elsewhere.
Integration of the Platou business is now complete, with 
anticipated synergies realised and the complementary expertise of 
the combined businesses proven. The acquisition has broadened 
our service offering to clients and puts us in a strong position for 
when markets recover.
Our ability to continue to grow and gain share in more difficult 
markets has given us considerable confidence in the business. 
Clarksons is significantly more diverse in terms of product offering, 
reach and balance sheet strength than we were before the last 
upturn in the sector; we are well placed to continue the solid 
performance delivered in 2016 and are leveraged to benefit 
strongly from growth when the shipping cycle turns.
Results
Underlying profit before taxation was £44.8m (2015: £50.5m). 
Reported profit before taxation was £47.3m (2015: £31.8m).
Underlying earnings per share was 105.2p (2015: 121.9p). 
Reported earnings per share was 119.7p (2015: 68.2p).
Dividend
Clarksons continues to maintain its remarkable dividend record, 
having increased the dividend paid every year since 2002. In line 
with this progressive dividend policy, Clarksons again intends to 
raise the dividend paid to its shareholders. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 43p (2015: 40p). The interim 
dividend was 22p (2015: 22p), resulting in a 5% increase in the 
total dividend for the year to 65p (2015: 62p).
The dividend will be payable on 2 June 2017 to shareholders on 
the register at 19 May 2017, subject to shareholder approval.
People
Our people are the heart of our business and are the key to our 
success. This year we have continued to hire and invest across  
our business divisions to ensure we always have the best people 
delivering the best advice and the best transactional execution.  
We have a position to protect as the leading employer and operator  
in the sector and remain determined to do so. 
Board
As previously announced, James Morley will be retiring from the 
Board following the AGM on 12 May 2017. I would like to thank 
James for the always wise guidance he has given Clarksons over 
the last nine years as a Board member and Chair of the audit 
committee.
I am delighted to have welcomed Marie-Louise Clayton to the 
Board at the beginning of 2017. Marie-Louise brings a wealth of 
board experience to the role and we look forward to her taking 
over as Chair of the audit committee.
Outlook
In the short-term at least, shipping markets seem most likely to 
remain challenging whilst current difficult market conditions and an 
unusually opaque global macro-economic environment persist, but 
there are now a number of indicators of improvement in the industry 
via measurable, if as yet relatively modest, demand growth and a 
slowing in the new capacity reaching the market.
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
10 March 2017
James Hughes-Hallett
Chairman
In these difficult market conditions, we are 
pleased Clarksons has delivered a strong 
performance and once again delivered 
significant value for our shareholders.
Looking beyond the horizon 10
Oslo
