 16 Clarkson PLC Annual Report 2016
Shipping markets are multi-cyclical, and our strategy  
of diversifying within our core markets has given us a 
unique product breadth and global reach and an ability 
to grow consistently, even in downturns. In these difficult 
times, we have continued to benefit from a ‘flight to 
quality’, in which clients are choosing Clarksons as  
their service provider.
Overall our broking teams have performed well, even 
though in offshore the operators continue to focus on 
cost cutting, with limited sanctioning of new field 
developments and moderated maintenance activities. 
The dry cargo market, which started the year with the 
weakest rates in recorded history, was also depressed, 
though there were some more encouraging signs 
towards the end of the year. However, the tankers, 
specialised products, gas and sale and purchase 
markets performed particularly well. Clarksons’  
teams have again increased broking volumes.
Our research offering has grown significantly this year, 
particularly in digital and valuations income, as our 
clients continued to value the importance of  
authoritative intelligence.
The port services teams remained profitable in some of 
the toughest markets ever seen for this type of business; 
the reduced spending by the oil and gas sector in the 
North Sea affected our supplies activities.
We are also particularly encouraged with the 
performance of our financial division, in its first 12 
months as a fully-integrated division. The solutions and 
expertise of the financial team has greatly enhanced our 
client offering, uniquely positioned our business amongst 
its peers and places us well to deliver a service, with 
deep industrial understanding, to debt and equity 
providers alike. The team has achieved a leading 
position in the market, participating as sole or joint  
lead on a number of capital-raising transactions 
throughout shipping and offshore, whilst also leading 
restructuring mandates and generating a strong  
pipeline for future business.
Clarksons is a highly cash generative business and our 
strong balance sheet ensures that we have been able to 
invest strategically and react quickly to take advantage 
of opportunities as they arise. Our cash position gives  
us great comfort that, regardless of market conditions,  
we can position the Group for upturns in each of our 
markets when they come, invest in growth (tools for 
trade) and deliver shareholders a growing cash return. 
We have also looked hard at the structure of the 
business and focused on efficiencies where necessary  
to ensure our model is fit for purpose and best placed 
for the current market conditions.
Strategic report Chief Executive Officer’s review 
Andi Case
Chief Executive Officer
At Clarksons, our long-standing strategic focus 
on developing ‘best in class’ client service, 
coupled with our unique product breadth and 
global reach, has allowed us to face these 
headwinds again and continue to invest in  
our business, ensuring we are positioned for 
future opportunity.
Investing beyond the cycle
2016 has been a year of growth, consolidation and 
delivery for Clarksons, despite the shipping market 
undergoing one of the most challenging periods in  
living memory, as highlighted by the lowest level for the 
ClarkSea Index since 1990, and the offshore market 
facing challenges as a result of the depressed oil price. 
To have once again increased market share shows we 
have a stronger, more diverse business that remains 
cash generative and highly profitable and has enabled  
us to deliver a 14th consecutive year of dividend growth 
for investors.
We had anticipated that 2016 would be another tough 
year, with oversupply, volatile commodity prices and 
global macro-economic uncertainty creating significant 
challenges for the sector as a whole. It is testament to 
the calibre of our teams and the breadth and depth of 
our client offering that, even in the most difficult of times, 
we have maintained or improved upon our market 
leading position across all of our divisions.
Despite the headwinds, we have focused on our 
long-term strategy for growth, delivering ‘best in class’ 
client service, investing in tools for trade and positioning 
the business to capitalise when the upturn in our 
markets comes. www.clarksons.com 17
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
We are seeing significant benefits from our investment  
in our market-leading technology platform, which is 
changing the way our brokers are able to access and 
use information, increasing knowledge and improving  
the communication of vast amounts of data across the 
business. The sheer scale of the market activity in which 
Clarksons is involved means that we are able to leverage 
our deep understanding of activity across the market by 
interpreting this data, and thus delivering the best advice 
to our clients.
We constantly strive to deliver ‘best in class’ client 
service, and the quality, knowledge and experience  
of our employees are central to Clarksons’ continued 
outperformance across all sectors and geographies. We 
are a truly international and culturally diverse business, 
employing the best people from 65 nationalities across 
21 countries to deliver first rate advice and expertise to 
our clients. The security of a robust balance sheet gives 
us the ability to hire and retain the best candidates and 
we have also made a number of extremely experienced 
hires across all of our divisions this year. As a team, we 
share the same goals and ambitions and I would like  
to thank all of our employees for their hard work and 
dedication over the course of the year.
Whilst we anticipate that the market will remain 
challenging in the near-term, we believe the medium-
term outlook for the sector is more positive. Demand 
continues to progress and the recalibration of the 
demand/supply balance is improving following lower 
levels of ordering and continued scrapping assisted by 
the impact of environmental regulation. Seaborne trade 
continues to increase and further positives for growth 
include the prospect of higher infrastructure spending 
from the world’s two largest economies. We have also 
seen a change in investor appetite from the fourth 
quarter. All of this gives us encouragement that the 
shipping and offshore markets are recalibrating. 
Accordingly, we are well positioned to benefit from  
any improvement.
The diverse nature of our business has enabled 
Clarksons to deliver healthy profits and continued 
dividend growth despite challenging shipping markets. 
As the markets progress, we believe we are well 
positioned to capitalise on the opportunities that 2017 
will provide and look forward to the year ahead. We 
remain focused on executing our proven strategy of 
delivering ‘best in class’ service and offering a unique 
product breadth across our globally connected business.
Andi Case
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2017
Our market context
With seaborne transportation accounting for around 
85% of the world’s international trade, shipping is an 
essential part of the global economy. The increasing 
industrialisation and liberalisation of economies  
has fuelled free trade and a growing demand for 
consumer products, positively impacting a myriad  
of cargo sectors. 
To put this in context, world seaborne trade by volume across all sectors 
was estimated at 11.1bn tonnes in 2016, almost twice the size than at 
the turn of the millennium, and over three times the size than the 
mid-1980s. At the same time, the world’s population has continued to 
expand at a phenomenal rate, caused predominantly by increasing life 
expectancy and major improvements in fertility rates. This, combined 
with human aspiration, has led to rapid urbanisation and accelerating 
migration which in itself also fuels further population growth.
In addition to these underlying mega-trends, seaborne trade per capita is 
also on the rise and essentially compounds the upward shifts. To put this 
in perspective, in 1990 every person on the planet required 0.7 tonnes of 
cargo to be shipped; in 2016 this figure stands at more than double at  
1.5 tonnes of cargo shipped per person.
With population growth momentum expected to continue for decades 
and emerging economies likely increasing their requirements for goods 
and raw materials that shipping transports so safely and efficiently, 
Clarksons are well placed to take advantage of these underlying 
long-term market fundamentals.
Seaborne trade as a 
% of global trade
85%
Cargo transported 
per person globally
1.5mt
World seaborne trade
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016 (e)
2017 (f)
Major dry cargo 
Minor dry cargo 
Crude oil 
Oil products 
Chemicals
Liqueed gas 
Containers 
Other dry cargo 
World population
Billion people / billion tonnes
