 ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
3 
 
The Group has enjoyed another excellent year underpinned by further substantial growth in the numbers of new IVA 
cases arranged during the past financial year, which doubled to 1,601 (2010: 799). In addition 953 IVAs were 
acquired from Invocas in June 2011 and as at 30 June 2011 the total number of IVAs and PTDs generating income 
was 5,893 (2010: 4,894). 
 
This is a pleasing result against a backdrop of an IVA market that has remained flat over the last 2 years at 
approximately 50,000 new IVAs per annum with slight declines in case numbers being seen in the first 2 quarters of 
2011. 
 
During the year, two books of DMPs totalling approximately 1,000 clients were acquired and as at 30 June 2011, the 
total number of active DMPs was 5,761 (2010: 6,316). Client retention rates remain at excellent levels although the 
fall in numbers reflects natural attrition in the DMP books, the majority of new clients opting for an IVA rather than 
DMP, together with existing DMP clients converting to an IVA where appropriate.  
 
For the majority of clients we see, the IVA remains the most appropriate solution freezing interest and charges and 
writing off the balance of debts generally after 5 years. Whereas in previous years clients have preferred to opt for 
the DMP solution as a short term fix awaiting improved prospects to clear their debts, there is now general 
acceptance that this will not happen in the short to medium term and the IVA solution is now the preferred option. 
ClearDebt has always felt that DMP’s are only applicable for clients who expect to see a rapid recovery in their 
finances. 
 
In November 2010 we rationalised the debt management operation in Staveley and closed the office transferring the 
DMP book to our main operation in Timperley where it was absorbed without the need for any additional staff 
recruitment. 
 
The IVA operation in Staveley continues to perform well and is now receiving new IVAs drafted by Timperley as 
spare capacity has been freed up through the natural completion of the older IVA cases acquired in 2009. The 
Invocas cases acquired in June have been transferred to Staveley and the electronic case management data will 
shortly be migrated onto our standard systems. In addition we are continuing to purchase new cases referred to us by 
Invocas on a monthly basis over the next few months on a trial basis. We continue to balance our workload between 
the two sites as required.   
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our staff for their dedication and hard work over the last year and I 
am proud of the work they do to provide continuing advice and assistance to our thousands of clients - as well as 
advice to many others to whom we have spoken over the same period. We continue to train and encourage all of our 
staff to obtain the Certificate of Debt Resolution (CertDR), exclusively offered by the DRF and presently all of our 
client advisers who have been with us over 3 months are qualified, which we believe is one of the highest rates in 
the industry. Industry regulation and consultation are increasingly focusing on the formal training and qualification 
of staff and we are therefore well placed to deal with the ever changing demands being made by the regulatory 
authorities. 
 
Cash flow from the former Relax cases remains good and well ahead of our expectations at the time of acquisition in 
December 2009. Total fees of £5.7m have been received to the end of June 2011 against a purchase price inclusive 
of costs of circa £3.2m, showing the value that can be generated by acquisitions bought at the right price and 
successfully and efficiently integrated into our systems and processes. 
 
We continue to maintain our internet activities across the Group acquiring web leads at cost effective rates wherever 
possible although we continue to see competitors paying for leads at prices we view as uneconomic. We have in the 
last year actively expanded our referral base and continue to explore new opportunities for lead sources and 
referrals. We have a strong pipeline of potential referrers whom we are currently in discussions with, some of whom 
may substantially boost the numbers of leads to our sales operation. We are also investing in new software to 
manage our sales operation which we expect to be in place in the next month or so which we anticipate will boost 
conversion and allow the marketing of more products to our substantial databases of leads and clients. 
 
 
 
   ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
4 
 
We are closely monitoring consolidation opportunities within our industry and will finance smaller acquisitions 
through cash flow. Our successful history in profitably integrating acquired back books - both operationally and 
financially means we are confident of raising additional finance for larger acquisitions, although the cost of such 
funding in the current economic climate is high. 
 
THE CONSUMER DEBT MARKET 
 
ClearDebt Group operates within the debt resolution sector, an established sub-category of financial services. 
Personal insolvencies saw a step change in 2006 with a 58% increase in individual insolvencies to over 100,000 per 
annum which has grown steadily each year to 136,000 in 2010.  In 2010 IVAs showed growth of 6% although the 
first half of 2011 has seen a decline of 13% on the same period last year.  
 
Traditional refinancing options through secured or unsecured lending remain closed to the majority of people 
leading us to believe that demand in our sector will remain robust although slightly off its peak in 2011/12.  
 
Against this background the government is actively looking to increase regulation and has already started to enforce 
much stricter compliance monitoring of companies in the sector and it is now much more difficult to renew existing 
consumer credit licences or obtain new ones. We continue to see this as an opportunity for ourselves and those 
larger organisations with cash who maintain the highest standards to purchase back books and consolidate the sector 
as the many smaller players are unwilling or unable to comply with the increased regulation.  
 
THE CLEARDEBT MODEL – IVAs and PTDs 
  
Unlike most of its major competitors in the consumer IVA market, ClearDebt has developed a low overhead, high 
quality model, based on Kaizen manufacturing principles and an intelligent internet interface - www.cleardebt.co.uk. 
This model allows the company’s cost base to be kept to a minimum level whilst still providing high levels of 
service even on lower levels of debt and disposable income.   
 
Demand for lower value IVAs has been evident which favours our low cost model allowing us to service levels of 
the market other providers will not touch. Due to this distinctive operating model, ClearDebt is able to offer a more 
effective debt resolution solution than many of its rivals.  
 
THE ABACUS MODEL – Debt Management Plans 
 
Abacus provides services to indebted individuals by negotiating and putting in place a debt management plan with 
their creditors. The debtor makes a monthly payment to Abacus who then distributes the payment to the creditors as 
agreed in the plan less an administration fee at an agreed percentage of the debtor’s monthly payment. An initial set 
up fee is also charged.   
 
Such plans are suitable for individuals whose debts are more manageable and rely on the goodwill of creditors as 
they are not a formal insolvency procedure and interest usually continues to accrue on outstanding debts although 
today the majority of creditors that we work with are prepared to waive the interest for short periods.  
 
Many clients are cross referred between ClearDebt and Abacus allowing the Group to offer an appropriate advice 
solution to all individuals.  
 
As a leading member of the trade body, The Debt Resolution Forum, ClearDebt has been in regular communication 
with the creditor community, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT), the Department of Business Innovation and Skills 
and the Ministry of Justice who have issued several consultation papers intending that stricter guidance on practices 
in the debt resolution industry which will need to be adhered to if operators wish to maintain their Consumer Credit 
Licence without which they cannot operate. 
 
   ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
5 
 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
 
ClearDebt – IVA Division 
 
Since 1 July 2010 (2010: 1 July 2009), the following numbers of new IVAs have been arranged through ClearDebt:- 
 
 Year ended Year ended 
 30 June 2011 30 June 2010 
First quarter 355 176 
Second quarter 407 173 
Third quarter 411 184 
Fourth quarter 428 266 
 ____ ____ 
 1,601 799 
 ____ ____ 
 
The growth of new IVAs continues to be strong and ClearDebt enjoyed an excellent year with a 100% increase in 
the number of IVAs passed in the year with 1,601 new cases (2010: 799).  I am pleased to say this growth has 
continued and case numbers in the first quarter of our current financial year are expected to be ahead of the fourth 
quarter with 362 cases already passed by the end of August. 
 
In addition we purchased 953 IVAs from Invocas in June 2011 which will generate additional income in the new 
financial year and we continue to be referred a number of new cases by them going forward. Including this purchase, 
we had as at 30 June 2011 a total of 5,893 (2010: 4,894) IVAs and PTDs generating income.  
 
The Board monitors several key performance indicators  (“KPIs”) for the business on a monthly basis including the 
number of cases passed, various conversion ratios from lead to cases passed, the cost per case acquired and the staff 
to caseload numbers. Your Board is pleased to advise that these KPIs continue to deliver positive messages about 
the business and we are hopeful of gaining additional referral sources in the first half of the current year. 
 
Revenue in respect of nominee fees is recognised on the approval of the IVA whilst supervisory fees are recognised 
evenly over the expected life of the IVA. 
 
Abacus– Debt Management Division  
 
The division made a profit in the period although we have seen a slowdown in the recruitment of new clients and an 
increase in the number of plans that cease as the age of the relatively young DMP book at Abacus matures.  There 
have also been a number of clients who have ceased a DMP and commenced an IVA with us.  
 
In the year 2010/11, Abacus has arranged 1,570 new plans (2009/10: 2,366). During the year two books of DMPs 
totalling approximately 1,000 were acquired and as at 30 June 2011 the total number of DMPs generating income 
was 5,761 (2010: 6,316). Our attrition rates on DMPs are well within our normal expectations and we are actively 
looking for further back books to acquire as a means of boosting income over the short and medium term. 
 
The Board has KPIs to monitor the number of active income generating plans as well as the value of monthly 
payments made by debtors.  Revenue is only recognised by Abacus upon receipt of fees which are drawn from 
debtor payments as received.  
 
Generally the costs of acquisition of cases and plans are also monitored closely. We continue to resist the temptation 
to grow the book through lead sources providing leads at what are, in our view uneconomic prices. 
 
   ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
6 
 
ClearCash – prepaid MasterCard 
  
Steady progress continues to be made with our Pre-Paid MasterCard, ClearCash, as the new version of the card, 
without a monthly fee, is taken up in larger numbers than the original which included the monthly fee.  The rate of 
new card signings continues to grow and as at 30 June 2011 there were 5,749 ClearCash cards in issue (2010: 
1,662).  The card currently makes a small loss each month after referral costs, but revenue from card usage has 
increased steadily month on month since inception. 
  
The card can effectively be used as a bank account with the exception of direct debit and we see the ClearCash card 
as an integral service offering to our clients who often find it difficult to obtain normal banking facilities. As 
numbers increase we expect it to produce a profit in due course. 
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
 
Group turnover increased by 17% to £7,776,362 (2010: £6,633,995) and gross profit by 20% to £3,963,959 (2010: 
£3,300,688). The performance was driven by good demand for IVAs and the benefit of the increased supervisory 
revenue which is growing steadily as the number of IVA cases under management grows. Amortisation charges in 
respect of acquisitions and impairment amounted to £1,388,809 (2010: £993,980). 
 
Finance costs rose to £532,404 (2010: £206,660 ) reflecting a full years charge of £467,960 (2010:£91,147) in 
respect of the 3yr 10% secured convertible loan notes issued in April 2010. Actual interest paid in respect of the 
convertible totalled £230,000 with the balance being an accounting charge for the redemption premium due on 
maturity in 2013. 
 
Cash resources at the year end amounted to £336,636 (2010: £541,504) after acquisitions of £1.1m in the year 
financed with net new loans of £315,000 advanced by David Mond. Operational cash flow remains strong and 
£350,000 of loans have been repaid since the year end. 
 
GOING CONCERN 
  
As part of its going concern review the Board has followed the guidelines published by the Financial Reporting 
Council entitled “Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for UK Companies 2009.  The Board has prepared 
detailed financial forecasts and cash flows for the three years to 30 June 2014 and in drawing up these forecasts the 
Board has made assumptions based upon its view of the current and future economic conditions in the UK that will 
prevail over the forecast period - given that the business is likely to be solely focused on the UK market for the 
foreseeable future. The timing of the cash flows and covenants to the debt holders in respect of loans provided have 
been taken into consideration and in addition to the forecasts we have also produced sensitivities to these forecasts 
to test our ability to trade as a going concern for at least the following 12 months based upon a 12% rise or fall in 
projected turnover without any reduction in overhead costs. In practice the Board believes that it can quickly realign 
overheads, in particular marketing spend, to allow for any reduced levels of activity within the business that may 
occur going forward. 
 
The Board believes that the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate and there are no material 
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt about the ability of the company to 
continue as a going concern. 
 
FUTURE OUTLOOK 
 
The IVA market is still at high levels and we continue to gain market share as our monthly run rate for new IVAs 
grows against the background of a static to slightly declining IVA market. 
 
The last quarter of the financial year produced a record number of IVAs for the Group and the first two months of 
the current year have continued in a similar vein. 
  ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
7 
 
We continue to look for acquisitions of client books wherever we can at reasonable prices to supplement our growth 
as we know these can be highly profitable given the ease with which we can assimilate them into our scaleable 
business model and systems.  
 
Given the current economic outlook in the UK with unemployment showing no signs of falling together with high 
taxation and continued public sector cuts I believe the Group is well placed for another highly profitable and 
successful year.  
 
Once again I would like to pay tribute to all our employees who continue to offer the highest standards of service 
and commitment to all our clients at all levels.  
 
 
 
David Emanuel Merton Mond FCA FCCA 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
23
 
September 2011 
