 5
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
“The traditional books business is 
undergoing a revolution . . . the 
business has exciting opportunities 
for 2012 and beyond as our 
positioning, platform and industry 
insights coupled with our strong 
titles in the UK and US put us 
in a very healthy position for this 
dynamic market place.”
Nigel Newton 
Chief Executive
Overview
T
he Group has had a successful year with total 
profit before tax and highlighted items of 
£9.4 million, up 25% on the year ended 
28 February 2011 of £7.5 million (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: £7.7 million). Profit before 
tax was £4.8 million, up 14% on the year ended 28 February 
2011 of £4.2 million (fourteen months ended 28 February 
2011: £4.2 million).
The results of our German subsidiary, Bloomsbury Verlag 
GmbH, which we contracted to sell on 28 February 2012, 
have been treated as discontinued in our accounts. 
Continuing profit before tax and highlighted items was 
£12.1 million, up 53% on the year ended 28 February 2011 
of £7.9 million (fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 
£8.3 million). Continuing profit before tax was £8.5 million, 
up 60% on the year ended 28 February 2011 of £5.3 million 
(fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: £5.5 million). 
We have enjoyed a dynamic year of innovation and 
acquisitions. Our acquisition of Continuum International 
Publishing Group (“Continuum”) in July 2011 for a net 
cash outflow of £19.2 million significantly enhanced our 
academic publishing business, giving us momentum in 
the US, the largest academic publishing market in the 
world, and scale throughout the world, particularly in 
Asia. This represented a major step forward in our core 
strategic objective to increase the proportion of academic 
and professional publishing revenues within the business. 
During the course of the year we have also acquired 
a number of other smaller lists including the National 
Archives Publishing programme backlist and the Absolute 
Press cookery list. In October 2011 we announced the 
licensing of the Wisden brand in India and legal content 
online with Practical Law Company. In line with our 
strategy of focusing on publishing books worldwide in the 
English language, we announced the formation of a new 
publishing business in India which is due to begin trading 
in June 2012. On 28 February 2012 we contracted to sell 
our loss-making German subsidiary and simultaneously 
announced a strategic partnership for the licensing of our 
brands in Germany and an option to the sale of German 
language rights to our UK trade publications. Since the year 
end we have acquired Fairchild Books, a US based fashion 
publisher for US$6.1 million, further strengthening our US 
and international academic business. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc 6
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
1. My Horizontal Life 
by Chelsea Handler
 
2. Kitchen Confidential 
by Anthony Bourdain 
 
3.  Salvage the Bones
by Jesmyn Ward
 
4. Chain Reaction 
by Simone Elkeles
 
5. Waiting for Sunrise 
by William Boyd
 
W orldwide T rade Ebooks 
Best Sellers 2011/2
6. The Finkler Question 
by Howard Jacobson
 
7.  Rules of Attraction 
by Simone Elkeles
 
1.  River Cottage Veg  
Every Day! 
by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall 
3.  Heston at Home
by Heston Blumenthal 
 
4. My Horizontal Life 
by Chelsea Handler
 
5. Pigeon English 
by Stephen Kelman
 
Worldwide T rade (All books) 
Best Sellers 2011/2
2. Harry Potter box sets 
by J.K. Rowling
 
6. The Finkler Question 
by Howard Jacobson
 
7.  Wisden Cricketers  
Almanack 2011 
by Scyld Berry 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 7
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Our publishing services contracts this year included a 
partnership with Forschungsinstitut zur Zukunft der Arbeit 
(IZA) in Germany which will generate £4.3m of revenue 
over five years. We continue to embrace online initiatives, 
which enable our content to reach wider communities. This 
year we announced Drama Online, Irish Law & Tax, UK Tax 
Online, Reed’s Nautical Online, the Bloomsbury Reader, 
Wisden Extra online magazine and the Churchill Archive 
Online.
There has been an acceleration of technological change 
in our industry and it is clear that, while print has a long 
and secure future, many readers have opted for digital 
formats for reasons of convenience, storage and retrieval, 
searchability, portability and cost. Our preparations over 
the last five years have allowed us to respond rapidly to the 
hugely increased demand for ebooks and for aggregated 
information for libraries. There will be further changes 
but our core assets of intellectual property, protected by 
copyright, allow us to maintain and build sales through 
whatever new media develop. We are confident that any 
downturn in the traditional High Street market will be 
compensated if not increased by new routes to market.
Ebook sales were £5.7 million, up by £3.5 million, 159% 
compared to the year ended 28 February 2011. They now 
represent 6% of continuing sales (year ended 28 February 
2011: 3%). In the US, ebook sales were 23% of continuing 
sales compared to the UK where they were 3% of 
continuing sales. We anticipate most markets will reach the 
US level of ebook sales in the near to medium term future.
Financial results
Following a change in the Company’s year end, prior 
period audited statutory results were for the 14 months 
ended 28 February 2011. However, to provide a more 
meaningful year on year comparison of business 
performance, we are also disclosing unaudited numbers 
for the year ended 28 February 2011. During the year we 
have completed on a number of earnings enhancing 
acquisitions, the most significant of which is that of 
Continuum. Underlying numbers disclosed below are 
Continuing numbers, which also exclude the results 
of Continuum. The disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, the 
acquisition of Continuum and various other strategic 
initiatives have resulted in a numbers of costs which have 
been highlighted separately in these accounts. Adjusted 
numbers below exclude these highlighted items. Group 
financial results are summarised in the table below.
Continuing print sales were up by 6% year on year to 
£78.9 million and continuing digital sales (which comprise 
ebook and digital subscription sales) were up 170% year 
on year to £5.9 million. Continuing Rights & Services 
revenue increased by £5.9 million year on year to £12.6 
million largely due to increased licensing and rights activity 
demonstrating the value inherent in our content. Almost 
half of this income related to digital products. It included 
£1.5 million received for the brand licensing and rights 
agreements which were signed on 28 February 2012 with 
Bonnier AB in Germany.
The continuing operating profit margin before highlighted 
items increased from 9.1% to 12.4% year on year (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: 8.5%), partly due to the 
increased proportion of higher margin Rights & Services 
income.
The Academic & Professional division grew the most  
year on year with a £2.9 million increase in continuing 
adjusted operating profit, due to both the acquisition 
of Continuum and a significant increase in income from 
content licensing deals.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited 
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted profit before tax 9.4 7.5 25% 7.7
Adjusted continuing profit before tax 12.1 7.9 53% 8.3
Profit before tax 4.8 4.2 14% 4.2
Continuing turnover 97.4 83.3 17% 93.1
Underlying turnover
1
90.3 83.3 8% 93.1
Total turnover
2
103.2 92.6 12% 103.4
1 Underlying turnover is continuing turnover for the Group excluding Continuum.
2 Total turnover is turnover for the entire Group, i.e. continuing and discontinued operations together. 8
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Highlighted items of £4.6 million include £1.6 million for the 
recurring amortisation of intangible assets and £3.0 million 
of non-recurring costs which have been invested in order for 
the Group to achieve its strategic aims. These costs have been 
highlighted to provide a fair representation of the underlying 
results for the Group. They comprise £0.4 million for the 
establishment of a Group head office to bring together our 
many acquisitions, £0.3 million of acquisition costs, £1.3 million 
of restructuring costs following the acquisition of Continuum 
and for the elimination of duplicate roles following the 
strategic global reorganisation of the Group and a £1.0 million 
loss on the disposal of Bloomsbury Verlag, our subsidiary in 
Germany.
Adjusted continuing basic earnings per share, which exclude 
highlighted items, were up by 36% year on year to 13.63 
pence (fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: 8.93 pence, 
year ended 28 February 2011: 10.03 pence). Continuing basic 
earnings per share for the year were 9.80 pence (fourteen 
months ended 28 February 2011: 5.68 pence, year ended  
28 February 2011: 5.59 pence).
At 29 February 2012 the Group had net cash of £12.6 million 
(28 February 2011: £36.9 million). 
Divisional Review
Academic & Professional
Bloomsbury took the decision in 2008 to build a new academic 
and professional business that was not reliant on the UK retail 
sector and with a significant and growing proportion of 
revenues from digital, subscription-based services. In the year 
ended 29 February 2012 this division has grown substantially 
through the integration of a number of high quality, 
complementary acquisitions; substantial organic growth in 
print and digital publishing and innovative licensing deals with 
publishing partners. 
The Academic & Professional division generated 24% of 
Group continuing sales this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 
17%) and 34% of Group adjusted continuing operating profit 
(year ended 28 February 2011: 15%). The division’s excellent 
financial results are summarised below.
Continuum International Publishing Group was a transformational 
acquisition made in July 2011 and is a cornerstone for the global 
development of Bloomsbury's academic publishing business.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited 
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted continuing operating profit 4.2 1.2 242% 1.7
Adjusted underlying operating profit 3.3 1.2 173% 1.7
Continuing turnover 23.1 14.3 61% 16.2
Underlying turnover
1
17.5 14.3 22% 16.2
1
 Underlying turnover is continuing turnover for the Group excluding Continuum.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
 A large part of the increase in underlying turnover was a 
£2.3 million, 133% year on year rise in continuing Rights 
& Services revenue to £4.1 million, largely as a result of 
content licensing deals, which are reflected in the high 
profit margin for the year. 
We have built up a significant holding in humanities and 
social sciences publishing, with a vibrant and growing 
tax and law business. This comprises Methuen Drama, 
Berg Publishers, Tottel Publishing (now Bloomsbury 
Professional), Arden Shakespeare, Bristol Classical Press 
and Continuum International. On 2 April 2012, Bloomsbury 
announced it had purchased Fairchild Books, the market-
leading publisher of textbooks and educational resources 
for students of fashion, merchandising, retailing and 
interior design. The Fairchild list is highly complementary 
to Bloomsbury’s existing academic list in the Visual Arts, 
which was bolstered by the acquisition of Berg Publishers in 
2008, the launch of the award-winning Berg Fashion Library 
www.bergfashionlibrary.com in 2010 and the acquisition 
of a fashion photography archive in 2011 with more than 
600,000 images. 
With this acquisition, Bloomsbury will enhance its US 
presence and raise its profile through association with a 
leading brand in a market niche where it is already well 
established. Fairchild’s renown as a textbook publisher will 
create synergies with complementary products published 
under the Berg imprint that are aimed at more advanced 
students and researchers, but are sold to the same 
institutions. The combined businesses provide significant 
opportunities for new digital initiatives and significant 
growth in the burgeoning markets in Asia. 
Our first digital subscription service, Berg Fashion Library, 
which launched in September 2010, received five library 
and scholarly awards in 2011 including the Dartmouth 
Medal in 2011, the prize awarded by US librarians for the 
best reference work of the year. When we purchased Berg 
in 2008, we did so largely on the basis of growing its digital 
resource in fashion studies. It has considerably exceeded 
our budget this year for subscription revenue.
The Berg Fashion Library provides customers with a substantial  
searchable database of images.
The acquisition of the Fairchild Books list in April 2012 is highly 
complementary to Bloomsbury’s existing academic list in the Visual Arts 10
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Bloomsbury Professional launched its first online services in 
Irish Law and Tax, and UK Tax Online in June and October 
2011. This has been a particularly exciting development 
for Bloomsbury Professional, as we compete against much 
larger entrenched companies in the market. With more 
focused resources we have been able to turn this to our 
advantage with UK Tax Online, with a direct-to-user pricing 
model that severely undercuts competitors whilst offering 
content packages that are much more suited to the high 
street practitioner. 
We were particularly pleased therefore to be awarded 
Supplier of the Year by the British and Irish Association 
of Law Librarians (BIALL). This is the first time BIALL has 
awarded the prize to a book publisher. In autumn 2011 
Bloomsbury Professional won a three year contract to 
publish PricewaterhouseCooper’s Manuals of Accounting 
in print and online. These are the standard works of 
regulatory commentary for company accountants and 
finance directors worldwide. 
We also concluded a large multi-year licensing deal 
in August 2011 with Practical Law Company, who are 
integrating some of our legal content into their corporate 
software service.
Within the division, the integration of Continuum 
International, purchased in July 2011, has been successfully 
managed and its UK staff have moved into Bedford 
Square in May 2012 as we have been fortunate to secure a 
lease for two floors in the building next door to our Head 
Office. The Continuum lists accounted for approximately 
24% of the full financial year turnover of the Academic 
& Professional division over the eight-month period 
under Bloomsbury management and are performing to 
expectations. Delivery of synergies is on track. Continuum 
systems were robust and scalable and there have been 
clear management benefits from this acquisition across the 
division. A project to exploit intellectual property from this 
backlist is underway, and product lines that have enjoyed 
considerable success are being rolled out across the 
division. Continuum lists will be rebranded as Bloomsbury 
later this year.
Bloomsbury Academic & Professional division is embracing 
digital publishing. We are collaborating with developers 
and other publishers to add value to our existing content 
by creating new platforms which build communities and 
enhance revenues. The Churchill Archive http://www.
churchillarchive.com and Drama Online http://www.
dramaonlinelibrary.com are two major digital initiatives 
being launched later this year. The sales campaign for 
both has begun and the response from the marketplace is 
encouraging.
The Churchill Archive and Drama Online are major digital projects that 
leverage existing content and build communities.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 11
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Adult
The Adult division generated 46% of Group continuing sales this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 52%). The division’s 
financial results are summarised below.
Year ended 
29.2.12 
£m
Unaudited
Year ended 
28.2.11 
£m
% increase 
year on year
14 months 
ended 
28.2.11 
£m
Adjusted continuing operating profit 4.8 3.8 26% 3.6
Adjusted underlying operating profit 4.8 3.8 26% 3.6
Continuing turnover 45.1 43.1 5% 48.0
Underlying turnover 43.6 43.1 1% 48.0
During the year our German subsidiary made losses of 
£2.7 million, of which £1.9 million was within the Adult 
division. Ebook sales in the division rose 169% year on year 
to £4.2 million. This represents 9% of the division’s total 
continuing sales (year ended 28 February 2011: 4%). In the 
US ebook sales were 23% of continuing sales and in the 
UK they were 5% of continuing sales. We anticipate most 
markets reaching the US level in the near to medium future.  
Rights & Services revenue rose by 153% to £3.8 million (year 
ending 28 February 2011: £1.5 million) and included a share 
of income from Bonnier for the sale of Bloomsbury Verlag 
and the licensing of Wisden in India which will generate 
US$3.2 million of revenue over five years, plus a royalty share.
The fastest year-on-year growth in our Adult division came 
from the US where our global publishing and marketing 
strategy is bearing fruit not least with our first National Book 
Award winner, Salvage the Bones by Jesmyn Ward.
In the UK we saw significant sales increases in our 
exceptional cookery list with Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, 
Heston Blumenthal, Raymond Blanc, the Galvin brothers, 
and many others being market leaders. River Cottage 
Veg Every Day! is still in the bestseller lists six months after 
publication and is Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall’s fastest and 
bestselling cookbook ever. His new cookbook Three Good 
Things, which will be published this year, is accompanied 
by a 50 part Channel 4 TV series in autumn 2012. In May 
2012 Bloomsbury won the 2012 Orange Prize for Fiction 
with The Song of Achilles by Madeline Miller. Bloomsbury 
had three novels on the shortlist of six, including Painter of 
Silence by Georgina Harding and State of Wonder by Ann 
Patchett. This is the first time in the history of the prize that 
one publisher had half the shortlist and is a remarkable 
testimony to our editorial team. We also have two novels 
shortlisted for the 2012 International IMPAC DUBLIN Literary 
Award: The Memory of Love by Aminatta Forna and Even 
the Dogs by Jon McGregor. Pao by Kerry Young is on the 
shortlist for the Commonwealth Book Prize and we have 
some strong candidates for the Man Booker prize.
Bloomsbury has a strong portfolio of best selling cookery books.
Three talented original authors for whom Bloomsbury is the publisher 
were shortlisted for the 2012 Orange Prize including the winner of the 
prize, Madeline Miller for The Song for Achilles. 12
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Sales growth in Australia was hindered by Redgroup Retail 
going out of business plus the growing trend of Australian 
readers buying their books from overseas internet retailers. 
Our focus is to ensure our books are marketed as effectively 
as possible in Australia and we are rapidly gaining a 
reputation for being the most innovative and author-
supportive operation in the country.
The key driver of our strategy is significantly to increase 
the proportion of sustainable, annuity-type income from 
the monetization of our strong backlist and through 
innovative business models such as Public Library Online 
digital subscriptions and direct debit direct-to-consumer 
marketing for our annual reference volumes.
Children’s & Educational
The division generated 26% of Group continuing sales 
this year (year ended 28 February 2011: 28%). Continuing 
turnover in the Children’s & Educational division was 
£25.6 million, up 9.9% on £23.3 million for the year ended 
28 February 2011 (fourteen months ended 28 February 
2011: £26.1 million). Continuing operating profit before 
highlighted items was £2.3 million, up 58.7% on £1.4 million 
for the year ended 28 February 2011 (fourteen months 
ended 28 February 2011: £1.5 million). This division had no 
contribution from the results of Continuum.
Ebook sales in the division rose 303% year on year to 
£1.1 million, representing 4% of total continuing sales (year 
ended 28 February 2011: 1%). In June we announced our 
ebook partnership with JK Rowling. Bloomsbury will receive 
a share of the revenues from the sale of ebooks from 
Pottermore.com, which has just commenced. This website 
builds an exciting online experience around the reading of 
JK Rowling’s hugely successful Harry Potter books. 
The sales increase in the UK included the effect of the 
release of the final Harry Potter movie in July and new 
Harry Potter Box sets at Christmas.  Strong sales also came 
from Elizabeth Beresford, Angie Sage, Mark Walden, Neil 
Gaiman and Louis Sachar. Educational sales of £4.2 million 
were at last year’s levels with slightly higher operating 
profits of £1.9 million before the allocation of central 
costs.  Although sales from the US were down slightly year 
on year, the increase in sales from Australia, which began 
trading in January 2011, more than compensated for the 
US shortfall. We have won several prizes for children’s 
books during the year including Winner of the Blue Peter 
Award for Best Children’s Book - The Considine Curse by 
Gareth Jones.
Public Library Online is an online subscription service provided by 
Bloomsbury generating additional sales for backlist titles.
The Wombles are an enduring children’s favourite for the next 
generation
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 13
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
We appointed a new Global Children’s Managing Director 
in 2011 and more recently have new Children’s Publishing 
Directors in the UK and the US. We have strengthened our 
international relationships and global strategy is now at 
the forefront of our acquisition process. Cost management 
systems are working well and processes are audited and 
improved regularly.
In 2012 we have a much improved children’s frontlist 
across all divisions and a strong frontlist pipeline going 
forward. We also have improved integrated sales and 
marketing plans driving frontlist sales. A new communities 
marketing team will increase our ability to market 
effectively into schools and a newly increased export 
team gives us good opportunities across all territories – 
especially in India with the creation of Bloomsbury India. 
We are celebrating the 15th anniversary of Harry Potter 
and the Philosopher’s Stone on June 26th 2012 with a large 
consumer competition to drive people into bookshops 
and libraries - giving us strong promotional activity for 
JK Rowling over the summer months. We are publishing 
illustrated editions of Harry Potter from 2013 and this year 
we will be publishing Hogwarts Library, a three book box 
set. During the first few months of 2012 the children’s UK 
and US trade markets have picked up considerably due 
to the success of Hunger Games. There is now a new trend 
for dystopian Young Adult books and this new genre 
should lead to the growth we have seen for paranormal 
writing in past years. Our key divisional priorities are 
our digital development and enriching our acquisition 
of high quality and commercial titles from a growing 
number of talented authors and illustrators. We intend to 
increase our children’s illustrated publishing and have 
put a team of five new staff in place in the UK to drive this. 
We will continue to invest in digital innovation across the 
children’s and educational lists. The UK market, which 
generates 62% of the division’s continuing sales, is robust.
Information
The division generated 4% of Group continuing sales this 
year (year ended 28 February 2011: 3%) and 7% of Group 
continuing operating profit before highlighted items (year 
ended 28 February 2011: 15%). Continuing turnover in 
the Bloomsbury Information division was £3.6 million, up 
40% on £2.6 million for the year ended 28 February 2011 
(fourteen months ended 28 February 2011: £2.8 million). 
Continuing operating profit before highlighted items was 
£0.9 million, down 26% compared to £1.2 million in the 
year ended 28 February 2011 (fourteen months ended 
28 February 2011: £1.1 million) following an allocation of 
central overhead costs of £0.9 million (2011: 0.5 million). 
Rights & Services revenue of £3.4 million made up 92% 
Exciting publishing initiatives in the pipeline for Harry Potter include 
illustrated editions and the Hogwarts Library. 14
BUSINESS REVIEW
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
of total continuing sales. This comprised £1.8 million of 
management services fees for the businesses we manage 
in Qatar and £1.6 million for other publishing services. This 
year these other publishing services included revenue 
of £0.9 million from the partnership with IZA in Germany 
for the development and provision of a reference and 
information resource in labour economics, which will 
generate £4.3 million of revenue over five years.
The businesses we manage for the Qatar Foundation have 
continued to progress well, and in particular Bloomsbury 
Qatar Foundation Publishing (BQFP) is ahead of its budget 
having published over 70 titles since its launch in April 
2010, which is also ahead of its title target, more than half 
of which are in Arabic. The children’s list in particular 
is gaining recognition in the Middle East as a publisher 
of high-quality Arabic-language titles for younger age 
groups. International recognition is also increasing with 
two groups of BQFP authors completing successful reading 
tours of the UK. The venture’s business in Egypt is strong 
with several BQFP titles reaching the bestseller lists there, 
and elsewhere in the region. BQFP took over sales of 
Bloomsbury Group titles in the Middle East in July 2011 
which has resulted in increased awareness as the books are 
now sold to a wider range of customers than previously. 
Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Journals (BQFJ) is in its start-
up phase with key successes including the development 
of a robust digital platform (www.qscience.com) using 
the Open Access model for research publishing  which 
is currently gaining favour among the global research 
community, as seen by the recent announcement from 
The Welcome Foundation. Visitor numbers and article 
downloads continue to increase in particular through the 
newly launched mega-journal Qscienceconnect.
Information’s business development unit which was 
established during the year is performing well with several 
deals completed or under negotiation. QFinance.com, 
the Group’s first Middle East project which was launched 
in 2009, continues to progress well with average unique 
visitors to the free to user financial best practice and 
thought-leadership website now almost 300,000 per month.
QFinance.com is attracting approaching 300,000 unique visitors 
per month.
BQFP has developed a robust digital platform for research publishing 
which is gaining favour in the global research community.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 15
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
BUSINESS REVIEW
OVERVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
Outlook
The growth of Internet retailing in both print and digital 
formats is allowing publishers to maintain their reach. 
Academic markets are holding up well throughout the 
university and professional sectors. For 2012 Bloomsbury 
has strong titles both in the UK and US. These include 
Three Good Things by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall, A Lady 
Cyclist’s Guide to Kashgar by Suzanne Joinson, Double Cross: 
The True Story of the D-Day Spies by Ben Macintyre, Mrs 
Robinson’s Disgrace: The Private Diary of a Victorian Lady by 
Kate Summerscale, Waiting for Sunrise by William Boyd, Zoo 
Time by Howard Jacobson, How to Survive The Titanic or The 
Sinking of J. Bruce Ismay by Frances Wilson, Throne of Glass 
by Sarah Maas and Penguin and Pinecone by Selina Yoon.
The traditional books business is undergoing a revolution 
and some new trends are becoming clear. Digital workflows 
can accelerate publication, simplify output files and 
generate internal efficiencies. Global marketing opens up 
significant new markets for both digital and print products. 
Ebook reader usage is still at an early stage in many of 
our markets and new and improved reading devices are 
being competitively marketed, including colour tablets 
and mobile phone applications. The business has exciting 
opportunities for 2012 and beyond as our positioning, 
platform and industry insights coupled with our strong 
titles in the UK and US put us in a very healthy position for 
this dynamic market place. We have built a robust and 
balanced business with more predictable income streams. 
Added to this, our highly innovative and entrepreneurial 
team, strong balance sheet and focused global strategy 
mean that we can continue to evolve and prosper in this 
market place.
Nigel Newton
Chief Executive
15 June 2012
A strong pipeline of titles is in place.
