 ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
3 
 
The IVA Protocol reached with creditor banks in February 2008 enabled the number of IVA approvals to start to 
increase once again after a long period of rejections by creditors. I am pleased to say that as a result ClearDebt 
enjoyed a 96% increase in the number of IVAs passed in the year with 483 new cases (2008: 247). This increase 
in cases reflects not only the favourable economic climate for IVAs but also the benefits of cross marketing with 
Abacus and enabled ClearDebt to achieve profitability. Income is currently being generated from 858 cases.  
 
Abacus has also achieved profitability for the first time (under ClearDebt Group plc ownership) in the current 
year and continues to make good progress in the favourable economic climate for debt solutions. A total of 
2,856 new debt management plans (“DMP”) were agreed in the year (2008: 2,707) an increase of 6% with some 
52% of leads arising from the ClearDebt website.  As at 30 June 2009 Abacus had 2,860 active paying debt 
management plans (2008: 1,899) which shows a healthy increase of 51% for the year.  
 
We continue to expand our internet marketing activities across the Group and are constantly exploring new 
online marketing opportunities. In conjunction with this, we are also enhancing and expanding The Debt Advice 
Portal software to manage all of our broker generated referrals.  
 
During the latter part of the year we also launched the ClearCash pre-paid MasterCard which is being offered to 
indebted individuals who struggle to obtain or operate a bank account. The card has the facility to make bill 
payments on-line and various other tools to enable budgeting. The card also offers discounts from a variety of 
sites and gives purchase protection insurance on all purchases.  
 
We continue to closely monitor consolidation opportunities within our industry and the Group is well positioned  
to capitalise on any opportunities that may arise. We also continue to develop our back office systems to enable 
us to meet creditors’ needs in as efficient a way as possible.  
 
THE CONSUMER DEBT MARKET 
 
ClearDebt Group operates within the debt resolution sector, an established sub-category of financial services. 
Personal insolvencies saw a step change in 2006 with a 58% increase in individual insolvencies to over 100,000 
per annum which has been steadily maintained each year since then.  The first half of 2009 is showing a 25% 
year on year increase when compared to the first half of 2008.  These rises have been largely due to the 
expansion in consumer debt, the contraction in credit and latterly a large rise in unemployment leading to an 
inability to service debt. 
 
As the economic climate has worsened the non-seasonally adjusted quarterly IVA numbers from the insolvency 
service have shown a steady increase from the lows in the first quarter of calendar year 2008 (pre the IVA 
protocol) until the last quarter of 2008. The numbers for the first quarter of calendar year 2009 saw a small 
decrease in IVA numbers which probably reflects the impact of rising unemployment – which makes an IVA 
generally an unsuitable debt solution. Despite this ClearDebt is continuing to show good growth as disclosed in 
the operational review. The insolvency statistics also show the number of individual insolvencies continuing to 
rise and we are also seeing an excellent increase in the take up of debt management plans through Abacus.  
 
THE CLEARDEBT MODEL 
 
Unlike many of its major competitors in the consumer IVA market, ClearDebt has developed a low overhead, 
high quality model, based on Kaizen manufacturing principles and an intelligent internet interface - 
www.cleardebt.co.uk. This model allows the company’s cost base to be kept to a minimum level whilst still 
providing high levels of service.  It also facilitates efficient growth as there is minimal need to hire new staff 
until customer number thresholds have been breached.  
 
Due to this distinctive operating model, ClearDebt is able to offer a more effective debt resolution solution than 
many of its rivals. The model allows ClearDebt to offer IVAs (if that is the appropriate solution) at lower cost 
not only to the debtor, but also the creditor, by enhancing dividends - thereby increasing the chance that an IVA 
will be approved by the creditor and completed by the debtor, benefiting all parties involved in the proposal. 
 
THE ABACUS MODEL – Debt Management Plans 
 
Abacus provides services to indebted individuals by negotiating and putting in place a debt management plan 
with their creditors. The debtor makes monthly payment to Abacus who then distributes the payment to the  ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
4 
creditors as agreed in the plan less an administration fee at an agreed percentage of the debtor’s monthly 
payment. An initial set up fee is also charged.   
 
Such plans are suitable for individuals whose debts are more manageable and rely on the goodwill of creditors 
as they are not a formal insolvency procedure and interest usually continues to accrue on outstanding debts 
although some creditors are prepared to waive the interest for short periods.  
 
Many clients are cross referred between ClearDebt and Abacus allowing the Group to offer an appropriate 
advice solution to all individuals.  
 
As a leading member of the Debt Resolution Forum, ClearDebt has been in regular negotiation with the creditor 
community and aims to be at the forefront of any proposals to introduce a Regulated Debt Management Plan 
following the completion of the current consultation process being undertaken by the Ministry of Justice. 
 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
 
ClearDebt – IVA Division  
 
Since 1 July 2008 (2008: 1 July 2007), the following numbers of IVAs have been arranged: 
 
 Year ended Year ended 
 30 June 2009 30 June 2008 
First quarter 84 36 
Second quarter 117 57 
Third quarter 118 67 
Fourth quarter 164 87  
 ==== ==== 
 483 247 
 ==== ==== 
 
ClearDebt has made good progress in the first three quarters of the year before seeing a rapid acceleration in the 
number of new plans in the fourth quarter. Case numbers in the first quarter are expected to be ahead of the 
fourth quarter which is especially pleasing given this first quarter of our financial year is traditionally a quieter 
period for ClearDebt and the industry in general. 
 
The Board monitors several key performance indicators  (“KPI’s”) for the business on a monthly basis including 
the number of cases passed, various conversion ratios from lead to cases passed and the cost per case acquired.   
 
Abacus– Debt Management Division  
 
The division has achieved profitability this year with a total of 2,860 plans generating income at 30 June 2009 
(2008: 1,899). Abacus currently has 2,939 paying plans in place as at 31 August 2009. Gross profitability has 
increased markedly with the low cost of acquisition of leads from ClearDebt sources versus other more 
expensive third party lead acquisition costs.  
 
Given that debtors often miss payments to the plans or delay in starting up newly agreed plans, the Board only 
include plans which have made a payment in the current month in the KPIs for total plans in place and new 
plans acquired in the month. The other main KPI monitored by the Board is in relation to the value of payments 
made by the plans each month as this has a direct bearing on fee income which is a fixed percentage of plan 
payments. Revenue is only recognised by Abacus upon receipt of fees which are drawn from debtor payments as 
received.  
 
The costs of acquisition of cases and plans are also monitored closely and KPIs continue to be refined following 
the purchase of Abacus where an increasingly large proportion of leads are being obtained from ClearDebt.  
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
 
Gross profit increased to £1,436,365 (2008: £107,807) as a result of increased turnover, careful control of salary 
costs, and ever continuing refinements in marketing spend and additional synergies between ClearDebt and 
Abacus.   ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
5 
 
 
FUTURE OUTLOOK 
 
The IVA market has continued to recover from pre Protocol levels in the first quarter of 2008 but has still not 
seen the peak reached in the 4
th
 quarter of 2006. Despite this ClearDebt has substantially increased the numbers 
of IVAs it has dealt with and has substantially outperformed the growth rate in the wider market over the period. 
 
We continue to see a significant number of appropriate referrals from ClearDebt to Abacus for debt management 
plans and as a result Abacus continues to trade strongly. 
 
Given the current economic outlook in the UK with rising unemployment I believe the Group is well placed for 
another successful year.  
 
I would finally like to pay tribute to all our employees who have bonded well together to create a very talented 
team offering the high standards of service and commitment that the company has set for itself. 
 
 
 
 
 
David Emanuel Merton Mond FCA FCCA 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
17 September 2009 
 
 
