 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
3
OVERVIEW
BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INFORMATION
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
 
“Even in a steady state economy, 
challenges and innovation are 
key to survival. When the macro-
economic, political and technological 
environments all change so fast – and 
at the same time – a business must 
move with equal speed and steady 
nerves in the service of its customers, 
its shareholders, its employees, and 
the societies within which it operates.”
Jeremy Wilson Chairman
T
his Chairman’s Statement marks the end 
of another year of growth at Bloomsbury. 
The company operates in a rapidly evolving 
environment. The business of publishers 
is the communication of culture in its broadest sense 
so when cultures change, good publishers thrive. 
Bloomsbury continues to ready itself for the new order 
now becoming visible. 
At the global level, the developed but indebted economic 
blocs of the world are sharing their authority and influence 
with emerging cash-rich regions. The new global Growth Axis 
which reaches from Asia to South America and includes India, 
Africa and the Gulf has a GDP growth rate three times that of 
Europe and the United States of America and it is home to 
85% of the world’s population. Throughout the history of 
man such shifts in the planet’s power profile have given rise to 
tension and crisis. It is no different today and the process has 
barely begun. At the same time, a technological revolution is 
spanning the globe with indiscriminate speed. Bloomsbury’s 
future is touched by it all.
Even in a steady state economy, challenges and innovation 
are key to survival. When the macro-economic, political and 
technological environments all change so fast - and at the 
same time - a business must move with equal speed and 
steady nerves in the service of its customers, its shareholders, 
its employees, and the societies within which it operates. 
The Chief Executive’s Report gives a detailed impression 
of how Bloomsbury is moving to take full advantage of the 
opportunity which this change offers. It is doing it through 
the acquisition of companies which have the potential for 
technological versatility and are known for the specialisms 
of their authors, particularly in its academic and professional 
business. It has expanded its business further in countries 
along the Growth Axis. It has focused on the stabilisation and 
diversification of its revenue streams. It is profitably sharing 
its expertise, experience and ethos with partners around the 
world who value the power and integrity of Bloomsbury. It 
has done it by keeping ahead of the digital wave breaking 
over business models across industry and commerce around 
the world. And, through the entrepreneurialism which is 
part of the DNA of the company and of its Founder and Chief 
Executive, it is developing new business lines. 
All these developments are interlinked. The success of one 
contributes to the success of the other. 
It is worth a few more words here on the development of the 
new and transformational digital delivery channel. That 
channel is now so broad and deep that it has had a 
fundamental – and profitable – impact on the balance of sales 
across the company and on the shape of the company. There 
will be more to come. It is a common misconception that the 
e-reader is the central pillar of the digital channel. It is not. It is 
one of the vehicles. The digital revolution is a phenomenon so 
fundamental it is changing the workflows, platforms and 
buying behaviours of all stakeholders in industry across the 
planet from the buyer to the supplier, from the customer to 
the shareholder. Old business models are dying; new ones are 
being developed. In some cases the latter have already 
become so powerful they threaten the existence of free 
market competition (with the longer term implications on 
ethical behaviour central to all democratic societies). 
Bloomsbury will play its part in ensuring that the industry’s 
integrity is not called into question. And it is, with the 
support and commitment of its stakeholder community, 
changing its business model to reflect the new dynamics of 
the publishing industry.
As these changes happen across the company, they call on 
all the resources of a fit and agile corporate enterprise. That 
demands a sense of common purpose and direction. To help 
achieve that the company has moved its businesses from sites 
around the country and from its birth place in Soho Square to 
a single site in Bedford Square. It has re-organised its business 
lines. And it continues to hire new talent and to develop those 
who work within the company. 
None of this will happen without leadership. The Board of 
Bloomsbury is substantially a new one. In this new mix it 
has the benefit of skills well suited to steer and support the 
transformation now being executed by the Founder and 
Chief Executive and his team. Debate within the Non-Executive 
Committees, Executive Committee and Board is robust and 
constructive. It does not deliver all the answers. But it helps 
drive the company to take steps which, whilst many will work 
and some may not, keeps alive the determination to stay 
ahead of the breaking wave. OVERVIEW
4
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
It also helps inform another critical dynamic in times like this – 
the evolution of new skills in the company. The need for a new 
vision and the opportunity that presents is clear to those at the 
top. And the new and rapidly developing digital architecture 
is exciting, motivating and inspiring new generations making 
their way up. But it is not always easy for those between the 
two to understand how to make the change happen. And 
that community is as central to success as the other two. 
Bloomsbury, from top to bottom, comprises people striving, 
with increasing success, to meet these challenges. 
In this regard, the Remuneration Committee has had its 
work cut out this year. The subject is topical anyway. But, in 
adhering to the basic principle that remuneration must be 
tied to performance, in recognising shareholder concern last 
year that this principle had been observed, and, above all, 
in seeking appropriate reward for change on this scale, the 
Remuneration Committee went back to basics. You will see 
further comment in the Chief Executive’s Review and in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report, but, in summary, recognition 
has been given to those who have, by their actions, brought 
about the vital short and long term changes – the cost of 
some of them in the Highlighted items in the accounts - which 
position Bloomsbury for the future whilst building the value 
and returns for all those who have invested in the company, 
financially or otherwise. The adjustment process is not over yet, 
however, and the Remuneration Committee will be looking 
further to support the Board and the company in the review of 
parameters which reflect properly the need to reward success 
and not failure.
Finally, at the heart of the company’s success are the authors 
whose work, subject matter, loyalty and commitment serve so 
well the readers for whom they write. It is Bloomsbury’s role 
to connect the two for the benefit of both. In times of such 
significant change in the environment in which it operates, the 
company must adapt and develop to ensure that it provides 
for the needs of those communities. 
And that comes down to its people. The team at Bloomsbury 
is committed, professional, expert and experienced. Upon 
each of those making up that team rests the success of the 
authors, readers, shareholders, retailers, suppliers and all other 
stakeholders who take advantage of Bloomsbury’s publishing 
services. On behalf of the Board and all those stakeholders 
I would like to take this opportunity in the Chairman’s 
Statement to convey our sincere thanks and appreciation 
to them for their dedication, hard work and unremitting 
endeavour in a year of so much change outside and within this 
remarkable company. 
Jeremy Wilson 
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
15 June 2012
Signs of change
Digital – Ebooks are substituting for traditional print. The Twitter 
Diaries is an example of a Bloomsbury book published just as an ebook. 
Bloomsbury has produced ebooks since 2005.
One Global Bloomsbury – The organisation has undergone a 
transformational restructuring.
Bringing 300 colleagues together in the new head office improves 
efficiency, encourages strong processes and supports the focus on 
accelerating innovation.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Bloomsbury Publishing Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
