 ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
3 
 
The Group has enjoyed another excellent year which has been further improved by the acquisition of the Relax back 
books for £2.7m together with further substantial growth in the numbers of new IVA cases approved during the past 
year.  
 
In December 2009 we acquired some 6,500 new clients through the back book purchase of IVAs, PTDs and DMPs 
from the Administrator of Relax together with certain staff and offices in Chesterfield where Relax were based. This 
acquisition more than doubled the number of clients within the Group and provided us with additional experienced 
staff in the IVA and DMP areas as well as in PTDs,  allowing us to take in house the processing of new PTDs going 
forward which were previously referred externally.  
  
I am pleased to say that the operations in Chesterfield have been successfully restructured and integrated into the 
Group with the vast majority of clients now transferred onto our back office systems and the staff relocated locally 
to Staveley, Chesterfield in new offices much more appropriate to the size of operation. 
 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the new and existing staff in the Group for their dedication and hard 
work over the last nine months in bringing this process to a successful completion.  
 
The timing of cash flow from the Relax acquisition in particular has been well above our forecasts and overall we 
expect the ultimate realisations to be ahead of our initial estimates that were anticipated last December. We continue 
to make rapid progress in closing these cases with over 500 closed since December which is as expected given the 
profile of cases which were mainly recruited in 2007/8 and prior years. As Relax workload falls the existing 
Staveley staff can be utilised to look after new cases recruited to the Group which will avoid the need for further 
recruitment in the short term. We continue to look for further purchases of IVA and/or DMP back books to leverage 
our efficient systems.  
 
Abacus has not been able to grow its DMP plans as aggressively as hoped but we believe many of our competitors in 
this marketplace are also experiencing a slowdown in the growth of DMPs.  The main reason for this is that a much 
higher percentage of new clients this year have converted to IVAs rather than DMPs. We are, however, very pleased 
with the client retention rates both at Abacus and Debtcare (the former Relax DMP operation) which continue to 
generate excellent cash flow, forming a strong income stream and financial foundation for the wider group.  Our 
overall conversion of leads across the Group continues to be good. 
 
Our policy is always to give our clients the most appropriate advice for their circumstances, through using our 
proprietary algorithms and we are perhaps seeing further acceptance from our clients that the IVA is a better long 
term solution to their difficulties than the DMP. ClearDebt has always felt that DMP’s are only applicable for clients 
who will see a rapid recovery in their finances. 
 
We continue to expand our internet and other marketing activities across the Group and are constantly exploring 
new opportunities for lead sources. In addition we are closely monitoring consolidation opportunities within our 
industry and the Group is well financed to capitalise on opportunities that may arise. We have a successful history in 
profitably integrating acquired businesses - both operationally and financially. We are therefore confident that we 
can manage any acquisition risks. This confidence is derived from the strength of our management, but also our 
systems which remain highly scaleable. 
 
THE CONSUMER DEBT MARKET 
 
ClearDebt Group operates within the debt resolution sector, an established sub-category of financial services. 
Personal insolvencies saw a step change in 2006 with a 58% increase in individual insolvencies to over 100,000 per 
annum which has been steadily maintained each year until 2009. In 2009 personal insolvencies increased by 26% 
with IVAs showing growth of 22%. The first half of 2010 continues to show overall growth of 11% in personal 
insolvencies with IVAs growing at nearly 15% when compared to the same period last year.  
 
The contraction in available credit to all but those with unblemished credit records and the slowdown in the housing 
market means traditional refinancing options remain closed to the majority. Our society and those of Western 
economies are now largely driven by consumer consumption financed too often through debt and we see the debt 
resolution sector remaining robust in the foreseeable future. The high levels of consumer debt and unemployment  ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
4 
 
and forthcoming tax rises and public sector cuts should continue to  increase the total level of personal debt levels; 
thereby increasing the market for ClearDebt’s portfolio of integrated personal debt resolution products.  
 
We see a continued shift towards the IVA or bankruptcy solution and away from DMPs as consumers realise that the 
perceived short term fix of a DMP is actually more expensive in the longer term where a quick return to 
employment or an improvement in circumstances is unlikely to happen quickly. Many DMPs take longer than five 
years to clear debts even with interest and charges frozen (which is not always the case) and so the typical five year 
IVA after which debts are written off in full is increasingly more appropriate. 
 
Against this background the government is actively looking to increase regulation and has already started to enforce 
much stricter compliance monitoring of companies in the sector and it is now much more difficult to renew existing 
consumer credit licences or obtain new ones. We see this as an opportunity for ourselves and those larger 
organisations with cash who maintain the highest standards to purchase back books and consolidate the sector as the 
many smaller players are unwilling or unable to comply with the increased regulation.  
 
THE CLEARDEBT MODEL – IVAs and PTDs 
  
Unlike most of its major competitors in the consumer IVA market, ClearDebt has developed a low overhead, high 
quality model, based on Kaizen manufacturing principles and an intelligent internet interface - www.cleardebt.co.uk. 
This model allows the company’s cost base to be kept to a minimum level whilst still providing high levels of 
service.  It also facilitates efficient growth as there is minimal need to hire new staff until customer number 
thresholds have been breached.  
 
Due to this distinctive operating model, ClearDebt is able to offer a more effective debt resolution solution than 
many of its rivals. The model allows ClearDebt to offer IVAs (if that is the appropriate solution) at lower cost not 
only to the debtor, but also the creditor, by enhancing dividends - thereby increasing the chance that an IVA will be 
approved by the creditor and completed by the debtor, benefiting all parties involved in the proposal. 
 
THE ABACUS MODEL – Debt Management Plans 
 
Abacus provides services to indebted individuals by negotiating and putting in place a debt management plan with 
their creditors. The debtor makes a monthly payment to Abacus who then distributes the payment to the creditors as 
agreed in the plan less an administration fee at an agreed percentage of the debtor’s monthly payment. An initial set 
up fee is also charged.   
 
Such plans are suitable for individuals whose debts are more manageable and rely on the goodwill of creditors as 
they are not a formal insolvency procedure and interest usually continues to accrue on outstanding debts although 
some creditors are prepared to waive the interest for short periods.  
 
Many clients are cross referred between ClearDebt and Abacus allowing the Group to offer an appropriate advice 
solution to all individuals.  
 
As a leading member of the trade body, The Debt Resolution Forum, ClearDebt has been in regular negotiation with 
the creditor community and aims to be at the forefront of any proposals to introduce a Regulated Debt Management 
Plan following the completion of the consultation process that was undertaken by the Ministry of Justice at the end 
of 2009. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
5 
 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
 
ClearDebt – IVA Division 
 
Since 1 July 2009 (2009: 1 July 2008), the following numbers of new IVAs have been arranged through ClearDebt:- 
 
 Year ended Year ended 
 30 June 2010 30 June 2009 
First quarter 176 84 
Second quarter 173 117 
Third quarter 184 118 
Fourth quarter 266 164 
 ____ ____ 
 799 483 
 ____ ____ 
 
The growth of new IVAs continues to be strong and ClearDebt enjoyed an excellent year with a 65% increase in the 
number of IVAs passed in the year with 799 new cases (2009: 483) and a large rise in profitability.  I am pleased to 
say this rate of growth has recently accelerated further as new lead sources come on stream. Following the 
acquisition of some 3,700 IVAs and PTDs from Relax last December, ClearDebt now has as at 30 June 2010 a total 
of 4,894 IVA and PTD’s generating income (2009: 858).  
 
ClearDebt has made steady progress in the first three quarters of the year before seeing a rapid acceleration in the 
number of new plans in the fourth quarter following the introduction of further lead sources.  
 
Case numbers in the first quarter of our current financial year are expected to be well ahead of the fourth quarter 
with 216 cases already passed by the end of August and a solid pipeline in hand. This first quarter is one of the 
quieter periods of the year for the industry due to the summer holiday period and so bodes well for the rest of the 
year.  
 
The Board monitors several key performance indicators  (“KPIs”) for the business on a monthly basis including the 
number of cases passed, various conversion ratios from lead to cases passed, the cost per case acquired and the staff 
to  caseload numbers. Your Board is pleased to advise that these KPIs are delivering positive messages about the 
business. 
 
Abacus– Debt Management Division  
 
The division made a small profit in the period having achieved profitability for the first time last year although we 
have seen a slowdown in the recruitment of new clients and an increase in the number of plans that cease as the age 
of the relatively young DMP book at Abacus matures.  There have also been a number of clients who have ceased a 
DMP and commenced an IVA with us.  
 
In the year 2009/10, Abacus has arranged 2,366 new plans (2008/09: 2,856). In December 2009 we acquired some 
2,800 DMP plans from Relax and as at 30 June 2010 the total number of debt management plans generating income 
was 6,316 (2009: 3,430). Our attrition rates on DMPs are well within our normal expectations and we are actively 
looking for further back books to acquire as a means of boosting income over the short and medium term. 
 
The Board has KPIs to monitor the number of active income generating plans as well as the value of monthly 
payments made by debtors.  Revenue is only recognised by Abacus upon receipt of fees which are drawn from 
debtor payments as received.  
 
The costs of acquisition of cases and plans are also monitored closely. We continue to resist the temptation to grow 
the book through lead sources providing leads at what are, in our view uneconomic prices. 
   ClearDebt Group plc 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
6 
 
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
 
Group turnover more than doubled to £6.63m (2009: £3.39m) following the Relax acquisition and increased growth 
in the insolvency business. Gross profit more than doubled to £3,300,688 (2009: £1,436,365), largely as a result of 
the Relax acquisition and continued growth in the insolvency division. Administration and finance costs also 
included one-off acquisition related items totalling £449,473 and £78,346 respectively. 
 
In April 2010 we successfully issued to investors £2.3m of 3 yr 10% secured convertible loan notes which are listed 
on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange (CISX) via our wholly owned subsidiary CDG (Guernsey) Limited. This 
comprised £1.8m of investment from new investors and the conversion into the loan notes of £0.5m of the £1.2m 
loan due to D E M  Mond.  
 
Cash resources at the year end amounted to £541,504 and cash flow remains strong leaving the Group on an 
excellent financial footing to finance further back book acquisitions as opportunities present themselves. 
 
GOING CONCERN 
  
As part of its going concern review the Board has followed the guidelines published by the Financial Reporting 
Council entitled “Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for UK Companies 2009.  The Board has prepared 
detailed financial forecasts and cash flows for the three years to 30 June 2013 and in drawing up these forecasts the 
Board has made assumptions based upon its view of the current and future economic conditions in the UK that will 
prevail over the forecast period - given that the business is likely to be solely focused on the UK market for the 
foreseeable future. The timing of the cash flows and covenants to the debt holders in respect of loans provided have 
been taken into consideration and in addition to the forecasts we have also produced sensitivities to these forecasts 
to test our ability to trade as a going concern for at least the following 12 months based upon a 20% rise or fall in 
projected turnover without any reduction in overhead costs. In practice the Board believes that it can quickly realign 
overheads, in particular marketing spend, to allow for any reduced levels of activity within the business that may 
occur going forward. 
 
The Board believes that the use of the going concern basis of accounting is appropriate because there are no material 
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt about the ability of the company to 
continue as a going concern.  
 
FUTURE OUTLOOK 
 
The IVA market has continued to grow strongly and ClearDebt has substantially increased the numbers of IVAs it 
has dealt with and continues to outperform the growth rate in the wider market as we continue to increase market 
share. 
 
Whilst we have seen a slowing in the rate of acquisition of DMP plans, our overall conversion of leads as a Group 
across all solutions remains excellent and we are merely experiencing a shift to a higher proportion of clients for 
whom an IVA is the more appropriate solution. The last quarter of the financial year produced a record number of 
IVAs for the Group and this figure has almost been achieved after only two months of the first quarter of the new 
financial year.  
 
Given the current economic outlook in the UK with unemployment showing no signs of falling together with further 
tax rises and public sector cuts to come in the short to medium term, I believe the Group is well placed for another 
highly profitable and successful year – without any further acquisitions. We remain delighted with our organic 
growth, but also are entirely open to the possibilities of acquisition, due to our unique Kaizen based scaleable 
business model. 
 
Once again I would like to pay tribute to all our employees who continue to offer the highest standards of service 
and commitment to all our clients at all levels and without whom the company would not be where we are today.  
 
David Emanuel Merton Mond FCA FCCA 
Chief Executive Officer 17
 
September 2010
