 ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT 
 
3 
The IVA Protocol reached with creditor banks in February 2008 resulted in the establishment of new 
benchmarks for IVA approvals. This enabled the number of IVA approvals to start to increase once again after a 
long period of rejections by creditors whilst the protocol was being agreed. The timing of the agreement 
however left it too late to show any significant improvement in our figures for the financial year as a whole. I 
am pleased to say however that Abacus has achieved profitability in the first quarter of the new financial year  
and has agreed 3,883 debt management plans (“DMP”) since acquisition up and until 11 November 2008. 
ClearDebt Limited, since inception up and until 11 November 2008 has approved 766 cases. Income is currently 
being generated from 643 cases with 24 cases being successfully completed. With ClearDebt Limited having 
also achieved profitability in the first quarter of the new financial year the directors expect an improvement in 
ClearDebt's trading results as additional numbers of IVAs are processed during the coming year and Abacus 
continues to trade strongly. 
 
Hence, I am guardedly optimistic regarding the future. Following the launch of our Partner Programme in June 
2007, ClearDebt has now signed up over 1,100 mortgage brokers and financial advisors as ClearDebt 
introducers. We have also recently signed an exclusive distribution deal with The Mortgage Brain Limited 
making ClearDebt's Partner Programme available online to over 24,000 mortgage brokers and financial advisors 
within the UK. 
 
We are also pursuing a number of other initiatives including the provision of our DMP Protect Policy with all 
plans undertaken by Abacus about to be rolled out and the introduction in the coming months of the ClearCash 
pre-paid VISA debit card which will also allow users to pay any of their bills online. 
 
We are aware of, and closely monitor the prospects for consolidation within our industry. We still believe that 
our low cost model, which is closely aligned to creditors' current preferred positions, is an increasingly attractive 
proposition in the current market and that the Group is well positioned to capitalise on any opportunities that 
may arise. 
 
THE CONSUMER DEBT MARKET 
 
ClearDebt Group operates within the debt resolution sector, an established sub-category of financial services. 
Personal insolvencies have seen considerable growth over the last 3 years due to the expansion in consumer debt 
and the contraction in cheap credit.  
 
The debate within the wider financial services industry with regard to the approval criteria for IVAs was 
resolved in February 2008 with a new protocol being agreed between the debt industry and the creditor 
community. Prior to this protocol however, the debate caused a reduction in the number of IVAs passed each 
quarter in 2007 and the first quarter of 2008.  
 
Since then, the non seasonally adjusted second and third quarters of 2008 have seen increased numbers of IVAs 
as the economic climate has worsened, although the quarterly numbers are still not back to their peak in the 
quarter ended December 2006. 
 
The new protocol has restricted the level of fees charged by the industry in general and has had the effect of 
bringing fees very much in line with ClearDebt’s traditional low fee model.  
 
Whilst this protocol has had little or no effect on ClearDebt’s model it has resulted in wide scale industry 
changes as many other IVA providers’ traditional models were no longer financially viable with the new fee 
structure.  
 
As a leading member of the Debt Resolution Forum, ClearDebt has been in constant negotiation with the 
creditor community. We believe the new IVA Protocol launched in February 2008 will see the start of better 
relations with the creditor community and responsible and appropriate solutions being approved going forward. 
 
THE CLEARDEBT MODEL 
 
Unlike many of its major competitors in the consumer IVA market, ClearDebt has developed a low overhead, 
high quality model, based on Kaizen manufacturing principles and an intelligent internet interface - 
www.cleardebt.co.uk. This model allows the company’s cost base to be kept to a minimum level whilst still 
providing high levels of service. It also facilitates efficient growth as there is minimal need to hire new staff 
until customer number thresholds have been breached.   ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVES’S STATEMENT 
 
4 
Due to this distinctive operating model, ClearDebt is able to offer a more effective debt resolution solution than 
many of its rivals. The model allows ClearDebt to offer IVAs (if that is the appropriate solution) at lower cost 
not only to the debtor, but also the creditor - thereby increasing the chance that an IVA will be approved by the 
creditor and completed by the debtor, benefiting all parties involved in the proposal. 
 
It is significant that this provides the Group with a capacity to handle lower levels of debt than many of our 
major competitors. The Group believes that this will prove advantageous following the expected introduction of 
the proposed 'SIVA', a simplified IVA procedure scheduled for April 2009, following which the Company 
believes that there will be a rapid increase in lower level IVA cases. ClearDebt already has a low fee model in 
place and believes the introduction of SIVAs (to be known in future as Fast Track IVAs) could lead to the 
potential referral of large numbers of new clients directly from creditor institutions. 
 
THE ABACUS MODEL – Debt Management Plans 
 
Abacus provides services to indebted individuals by negotiating and putting in place a debt management plan 
with their creditors. The debtor makes a monthly payment to Abacus who then distributes the payment to the 
creditors as agreed in the plan less an administration fee at an agreed percentage of the monthly payment. An 
initial set up fee is also charged.   
 
Such plans are suitable for individuals whose debts are more manageable and rely on the goodwill of creditors 
as they are not a formal insolvency procedure and interest usually continues to accrue on outstanding debts.  
 
Many clients are cross referred between ClearDebt and Abacus allowing the Group to offer an appropriate 
advice solution to all individuals.  
 
This will become more prevalent when the current consultation process being undertaken by the Ministry of 
Justice into the possibility of a Regulated Debt Management Plan is completed and the industry in 2011 will see 
changes for which Abacus is well prepared. 
 
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 
 
ClearDebt Limited – IVA Division  
 
Since 1 July 2007, the following numbers of IVAs have been arranged: 
 
 Year ended Year ended 
 30 June 2008 30 June 2007 
 
First quarter 
 
36 
 
74 
Second quarter 57 53 
Third quarter 67 46 
Fourth quarter 87 31  
 ____ ____ 
 247 204 
 ___ ___ 
 
The impact on case numbers as a result of the rejections by creditors of cases in 2007 can be clearly seen from 
the drop in case numbers from the second quarter in 2007. The return to a growth trend in IVA cases follows the 
agreement between the British Bankers Association and The Insolvency Service of the new IVA Protocol which 
commenced in February 2008. Case numbers for the first quarter of the new financial year remain broadly in 
line with the fourth quarter level of last year with a record number of cases passed in September offsetting 
slightly lower numbers over July and August. The second quarter of the new financial year has started with 
record approvals in October, and November looks to be heading for even higher numbers. 
  ClearDebt Group plc  
CHIEF EXECUTIVES’S STATEMENT 
 
5 
The Board monitors several key performance indicators  (“KPI’s”) for the business on a monthly basis including 
the number of cases passed, various conversion ratios from lead to cases passed and the cost per case acquired.   
 
Abacus (Financial Consultants) Limited – Debt Management Division  
 
The acquisition of Abacus has been successfully completed and the division has achieved quarterly profitability 
for the first time in the first quarter of the new financial year.  
 
As at the end of June 2008 Abacus had a total of 1,899 plans generating income. A steady run rate of 
approximately 300 new plans per month is currently being achieved which is leading to an increase in the net 
overall number of plans and generating income after allowing for failures. Currently Abacus has 2,499 paying 
plans in place (as at 11 November 2008). 
 
Given that debtors often miss payments to the plans or delay in starting up newly agreed plans, the Board now 
only include plans which have made a payment in the current month in the KPI’s for total plans in place and 
new plans acquired in the month. The other main KPI monitored by the Board is in relation to the value of 
payments made by the plans each month as this has a direct bearing on fee income which is a fixed percentage 
of plan payments. Revenue is only recognised by Abacus upon receipt of fees which are drawn from debtor 
payments as received.  
 
The costs of acquisition of cases and plans are also monitored closely and KPI’s continue to be refined 
following the purchase of Abacus. As a result of cross referral particularly, from ClearDebt to Abacus, the 
marketing spend by both divisions is increasingly being viewed as a single spend across the Group. 
 
FINANCIAL REVIEW 
 
Whilst the results for the year continue to show losses at an operating level it is nevertheless pleasing that the 
Group is now profitable at a gross profit level, achieving a gross profit of £107,807 (2007:loss £226,494). 
Refinement of marketing campaigns and synergies achieved across the two divisions with respect to marketing 
spend have contributed most to this turnaround together with marginally reduced staff overheads in ClearDebt 
Limited following further automation. This provides further evidence that our efficient back office processes can 
handle increased volumes without additional salary overhead. 
 
FUTURE OUTLOOK 
 
Following the agreement of the new IVA protocol with creditors in February 2008 the IVA market has returned 
to some measure of normality and our low cost model means that we can accept many cases at fee levels that 
may not be profitable for other providers with less efficient models than our own. However there are still one or 
two creditor banks that are being slow to lower their hurdle rates. We expect that Government pressure will be 
necessary to resolve the position.  
 
Although the increased dividend criteria for the acceptance of IVA cases is still limiting growth in the IVA 
market as a whole, ClearDebt is passing a steadily rising volume of cases each month. We are however seeing a 
significant number of appropriate referrals from ClearDebt to Abacus for debt management plans and as a result 
Abacus is currently trading strongly. 
 
Given the severe economic background in the UK and the economic outlook at present I am increasingly 
hopeful that the Group’s businesses will continue to make substantial progress in the coming year. 
 
 
 
 
David Emanuel Merton Mond FCA FCCA 
Chief Executive Officer 
 
17 November 2008 
 
