 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Bloomsbury Publishing Plc
3
Overview Business Review Gove Rnance Financial s Ta Temen Ts c ompany in Fo Rma Tion 22166.04       12 June 2013 5:29 PM        Proof 7
chAirmAn’s st Atement
“d igitally-distributed sales at 
Bloomsbury are up by 71%. the 
g roup’s cash has been deployed in 
acquisitions which have sustained 
dividend growth at a compound 
annual rate of 7% over the past 6 
years. Bloomsbury has no net debt. 
And Bloomsbury businesses continue 
to develop in the growth economies 
of india and the middle east.”
Jeremy wilson Chairman
B
loomsbury’s robust performance over  
the past year has been achieved enjoying the 
new advantages and benefits of the digital 
revolution. 
The Chief Executive’s Report which follows this Chairman’s 
Statement provides detailed commentary on a publishing 
company addressing, in all aspects of its strategy, the 
opportunities and risks which these conditions present. 
That strategy, largely set in 2008, continues to develop. 
Despite the economic back-cloth throughout that period, 
it has led to steady growth in a company undergoing 
a fundamental transformation in its business model. 
The intention is to continue along this path, sharing the 
weight of traditional trade publishing with non-trade 
activity (the latter now accounts for 61% of the Group’s 
operating profit and 33% of its revenue) and driving new 
propositions, improved customer service, efficiency, and 
profit out of the digital opportunity.
Digitally-distributed sales at Bloomsbury are up by 71%. 
E-book sales of £9.1 million now represent 9% of total 
Group revenue. The Group’s cash, in a world where interest 
rates have been sedated by central bank policy, has been 
deployed – but not exhausted – in acquisitions which have 
sustained dividend growth at a compound annual rate 
of 7% over the past 6 years. Bloomsbury has no debt and 
the Group’s businesses continue to develop in the growth 
economies of India and the Middle East.
Strategy execution does not happen by accident. The 
relentless drive and strong leadership of the Chief 
Executive and Founder, the skill, competence and 
experience of the Executive Directors and the Executive 
Committee, the commitment and dedication of every 
member of a group expanded and enhanced by 
acquisitions, and the external perspective, wise counsel 
and strategic sign-posting provided by the Non-Executive 
Directors, has been central to delivering this performance. 
The Board recognises their contribution. On behalf of all 
those stakeholders whose interests it represents, it offers its 
sincere and grateful thanks.
Jeremy wilson
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
12 June 2013
Reception of the new New Delhi publishing office & the India launch 
event in September 2012. 
Times Square from the new New York office & the new Sydney office.
Bloomsbury’s London office.
Bloomsbury AR2013 FRONT.indd   3 12/06/2013   17:31:07
