 23265-04 11 June 2014  Proof 9
I 
am delighted to report my first full year results as 
Chairman of Bloomsbury Publishing. The Group has 
enjoyed a good year, with total revenue up 11% 
and profit before tax and highlighted items* up 4%. 
The Bloomsbury Adult division’s total revenue increased 
by 13%, with increases in both print and digital sales. 
Bloomsbury has continued to broaden its business. In 
particular the Academic & Professional division has kept 
pace with the success of the Adult division and accounts 
for 29% of Group revenue. Total digital sales grew by 21% 
across the Group. The India business is reporting its first full 
year of results and showing early promise. 
The Chief Executive’s Review provides more detail on the 
Group’s performance for the year. 
Our Strategic Report is set out on pages 1 to 45. One 
major objective is to grow the academic and professional 
publishing business. Our acquisition of Hart Publishing, a 
specialist legal publisher, demonstrates the execution of this 
strategy. At the year-end we had net cash of £10.0 million 
down from £14.6 million last year, having spent £8.5 million 
on acquisitions. We will continue to be open to acquisitions 
which help us to deliver our strategy.
We also want to grow digital and subscription revenues, 
further developing the One Global Bloomsbury approach. 
At the same time there is a need to make sure that our 
systems keep up with the growth in the business and enable 
us to provide excellent support to our authors.
Looking ahead, there is continuing optimism that there will 
be a return to a reasonable level of economic growth in the 
UK and the US. These markets together account for over 
90% of total Bloomsbury sales. 
Since Bloomsbury reported last year, alongside my 
appointment as Chairman, the Board has also appointed 
two new independent Non-Executive Directors: Jill Jones, 
Managing Director of McGraw Hill Education, Europe, 
Middle East and Africa, and Stephen Page, Chief Executive 
of Faber & Faber. The knowledge they respectively bring 
of the academic and trade businesses is invaluable to the 
Board. Around the same time, Sarah Jane Thomson and 
my predecessor, Jeremy Wilson, left the Board. We thank 
Sarah Jane and Jeremy enormously for their important 
contributions to Bloomsbury. 
The performance of the last year would not have come 
without the steely determination and hard work of the 
Executive Directors, the other members of the Executive 
Committee and the wider staff at Bloomsbury. On behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank all of the staff for their 
professionalism and dedication. We know that our future 
success is dependent on our authors, on the commitment 
and talents of our people and on the support of our other 
stakeholders. Mindful of the rapid evolution of digital 
publishing, the strength of the Bloomsbury team enables us 
to look forward to the future with confidence.
 
Sir Anthony Salz 
Non-Executive Chairman 
11 June 2014
Bloomsbury Collections is the new online academic platform for 
delivering scholarly texts.
STRATEGIC REPORT
PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
www.bloomsbury.com
Stock Code: BMY
3
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Bloomsbury Annual Report 2014 FRONT Proof 9.indd   3 11/06/2014   16:46:31
