 6
chief 
executive’s
overview
our commitment to running a
responsive, and responsible,
business has provided a firm
foundation for success – making
2002 another record year for 
The Co-operative Bank”
‘‘
Summary Once again, our commitment to running
a responsive, and responsible, business has provided
a firm foundation for success – making 2002 another
record year for The Co-operative Bank. The year saw
us building on our strong reputation for customer focus,
ethical principles, innovative product development and
quality service. These priorities have continued to be a
powerful formula for sustainable growth.
Financial performance In 2002, the bank
produced a pre-tax profit of £122.5 million. This is a
14% increase on 2001, giving us our ninth consecutive
year of record profits. Against a backdrop of relentless
competition and increasing economic uncertainty, our
financial results continue to demonstrate that the
emphasis we place on customer service and the broad
view we take of our social responsibilities really does
deliver. The return on opening equity, after tax, was
19.8%. Operating income increased by 6.1% and the
Cost/Income Ratio was reduced again, despite our
continued investment in business development.
Average retail customer lending balances grew by 11%
and average retail customer deposit balances by 12%.
Provisions for bad and doubtful debts stood at 1.60%
of year-end loans and advances to customers, a chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
7
reduction in percentage terms of 0.11% compared
with 2001.
Co-operative Financial Services In
April 2002, Co-operative Financial Services (CFS) 
was created to bring The Co-operative Bank and 
Co-operative Insurance Society (CIS) under common
leadership. Co-operative Financial Services Limited is
an Industrial and Provident Society and is the new
holding company for these two major businesses.
Following my appointment as CFS’ first Chief Executive,
one of my key objectives has been to focus on the
range of products, services and distribution channels
offered to the customers of both organisations and to
explore how these can be developed to provide our
joint customer base with a more comprehensive,
convenient and co-operative financial services offering.
A significant amount of research and analysis was
undertaken prior to the formation of CFS. One output
from the research was that there is a large number of
customers unaware that these two important co-
operative businesses are part of the same family and,
as a result, are buying many of their financial services
products from outside the Co-operative Group. When
customers are made aware that the bank and CIS are,
in fact, sister organisations, many indicate a preference
for considering buying these products from the sister
organisation.
The formation of CFS has inevitably led to a
reorganisation of the bank’s Board and Executive
Team. The new management structures are now
virtually complete, including several key executive
appointments, with my colleague Sheila Macdonald
appointed to the role of Chief Operating Officer of the
bank. I continue as the bank’s Chief Executive.
People I have always firmly believed that our
people, and their commitment to exceptional levels of
customer service, are crucial to the success of the
bank. Therefore, given the various changes currently
taking place within our organisation, I am particularly
pleased by the feedback we received from our 2002
annual staff survey. The staff survey provides our
people with the opportunity to openly air their thoughts
and opinions on working for the bank. This year, I was
pleased to see a significant increase in the number of
our staff taking the opportunity to respond to the
survey and I welcome, once again, the improvement
that was recorded in the overall scores. Staff
understanding of the bank’s mission and core values
remains high, and I am delighted to report that 88%
indicated their support for this positioning. The fact
that staff opinions about working for the bank
constitute a major reason for our inclusion in the list of
the ‘UK’s Best Workplaces 2003’, published by 
the Financial Times, also gives me considerable
personal satisfaction.
In the previous year’s staff survey, along with clear
positive signals about pride, job satisfaction, teamwork
and empathy with customers, there were concerns
expressed by some staff about the opportunities for
career progression and about the increasing pressures
at work. In 2002, we continued to focus on these areas
through a number of initiatives. Our new ‘work/life
balance’ policies include provision for flexible working,
maternity, paternity and adoption leave, and childcare
vouchers. These policies recognise the wider
commitments of our staff and, in partnership with our
new ‘well-being’ policy, are a key part of our drive to
tackle the impact of modern stress in the workplace.
The impact of these new policies has yet to be seen in
responses to the staff survey, but I hope to see
improvements in this area next year as more
employees make use of these provisions.
Customer service Just as we recognise the
need to keep investing in our employees in a time of
change, it is equally important that we maintain our
sharp customer focus. Whilst I have always believed
that looking after our staff is the starting point for
excellent customer service, we also continue to We have also been particularly active in the credit card
market, regularly featuring in the media’s ‘best buy’
tables with products such as our Platinum Fixed Rate
VISA card, which guarantees a fixed rate of interest for
five years. Building on this success, in September
2002 we launched a Gold Fixed Rate card, which
provides customers with a similar fixed rate offer until
2008. We also re-launched our Platinum Advantage
card, with an initial interest-free period for purchases
and balance transfers, and also introduced a Platinum
Base Rate Tracker card, which we believe is unique in
the credit card market – cardholders are guaranteed an
interest rate that is fixed at 5% above the Bank of
England base rate, with a six month introductory
period where the rate is equivalent to the prevailing
base rate.
We continued to build relationships with our affinity
partners, notably through the introduction of a number
of new platinum cards, which generate donations to
the affinity group each time they are used by the
cardholder. In total, the bank’s affinity cards raised
more than £1.38 million for partners during 2002,
providing much needed funds for them, for a variety of
important projects.
Since last year’s launch of our new Privilege current
implement a range of initiatives to help ensure we meet
or exceed our customers’ expectations.
Our recent TV advertising was built around the
proposition that we are a bank that treats its customers
with respect, and we aim to do this in all our dealings
with them. It is extremely important to us to be honest
and open with our customers, and to guarantee them
good service. If we ever fail to live up to our service
level guarantees, after rectifying the problem we
apologise and give the customer £15.
A major independent survey, carried out by MORI in the
six months ending December 2002, confirms the
effectiveness of our approach. 97% of our current
account customers described themselves as ‘satisfied’
or ‘very satisfied’ with the service they receive from us.
This puts our net satisfaction rating 8 percentage
points above the average rating and puts us at the top
of the list of all the high street banks surveyed.
Personal banking 2002 was a particularly
busy year for product development in personal banking
as we worked hard to make sure our personal
customers have not only the choice of products, but
also the range of channels through which to access
them to meet their evolving requirements. We
expanded our residential mortgage product portfolio
with the addition of several competitive fixed-rate
offers, enabling our customers to benefit from current
low interest rates. New variable-rate mortgages,
including a 3-year discount product and a 5-year
tracker product, were added to our mortgage range
and we believe we now offer something for everyone.
In keeping with our wider values and principles, our
mortgages combine value for money with a range of
environmentally-friendly features. For example, for
each year during the lifetime of a mortgage, the bank
will make a payment to Climate Care – a scheme that
seeks to offset, each year, around a fifth of an average
home’s carbon dioxide emissions through reforestation
programmes and other schemes.
chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
8
For each mortgage taken out with the bank, an
annual payment is made to Climate Care to
support carbon dioxide offsetting schemes, such
as rainforest reforestation in Kibale National
Park, Uganda.
Face Foundation 2002 chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
9
account, we have seen many customers – both
existing and new – choosing to take advantage of the
benefits it offers. These include a guaranteed overdraft
at preferential rates, free annual family travel insurance
and discounts on a wide range of lifestyle products and
services – all for a small monthly fee.
In addition to product development, we have also
improved the way we communicate our offers to both
existing and potential new personal customers. In
2002, we ran two TV advertising campaigns: one
specifically promoting the advantages of our personal
loans, and another, to which I referred earlier,
reminding people of the bank’s promises to customers
about service, ethics and respect. All of our marketing
activity continues to carry our overarching customer
proposition: ‘The Co-operative Bank. Customer led,
ethically guided.’
Independent financial advice
Co-operative Bank Financial Advisers Ltd (CBFA), our
IFA subsidiary, consolidated its position as a leading
IFA when it was confirmed in the top 25 of the list of the
UK’s Top 100 IFAs, published by the industry trade
journal, Financial Adviser.
In our annual survey of customers, they confirmed yet
again that the three most important reasons for dealing
with CBFA are: genuinely independent advice; our
approach to ethical investments; and the reassurance
that comes from being part of The Co-operative Bank.
In 2002, CBFA became the first business in the UK to
be awarded the joint Standard Life/Royal National
Institute for the Blind (RNIB) ‘See it Right’ logo for its
accessible website.
Internet banking Within just three years of its
launch, our internet bank, smile, has established a
coveted and distinctive position in the market.
During 2002, we added a number of new services to
the smile offer. For example, working in partnership
with ‘Self Trade’, one of the UK’s fastest growing online
stockbrokers, we developed smileinvest sharedealing,
a quick and easy low-cost way for customers to buy
and sell shares, 24 hours a day, and a new smile credit
card was also launched in July 2002, offering
customers many ‘best buy’ features.
In July 2002, we were pleased to receive no fewer than
five awards for smile. The specialist magazine, Your
Money, chose smile as the Best Internet Banking
Provider and at the Guardian/Observer Consumer
Finance Awards we won four prizes for best: website,
credit card, online current account and savings
account. A successful year for smile drew to a
pleasing conclusion when a leading consumer
magazine survey singled out smile for its exceptional
levels of customer satisfaction – some 80% of
customers having said that they were very satisfied
with all aspects of their smile banking service.
For Co-operative Bank customers who want to use the
internet, but wish to do so alongside more traditional
banking service channels, the bank also provides a free
online facility, the Co-operative Bank Internet Banking
Service. Last year, this service was judged the Best
Financial Services Internet Site among the ‘traditional
banks’ at the Guardian/Observer Consumer Finance
Awards, and we have since improved the website even
further to make it even more user-friendly.
smile upheld its reputation for
innovative advertising, with a number
of campaigns appearing in the
national press throughout 2002. 10
Our Business Direct account was enhanced, rebranded and relaunched in October 2002 as
Business Directplus, offering new SME customers a range of attractive features, including 
18 months free banking. chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
11
Corporate and business banking
During 2002, we redefined relationship banking for our
corporate and business customers as ‘Partnership
Banking’. This move reflects the surveyed views of our
customers, who see The Co-operative Bank as an
integral part of their business and a critical component
of their success. We understand that each business is
unique and, by working in partnership, we invest time
in gaining a true understanding of our customers’ own
businesses, allowing us to tailor our support and
respond to them with imagination.
Another key element of our corporate and business
banking activities in 2002 was our focus on small to
medium-sized businesses (SMEs). In October 2002,
we relaunched our Business Direct account as
‘Business Directplus’ – a 24-hour telephone, internet
and postal banking service offering 18 months free
banking to all new SME customers, as well as competitive
in-credit interest rates on current account balances.
The year also saw the development of a new
partnership with Bradford & Bingley plc, who chose us
as their principal clearing bank. Our innovative
approach, flair and underlying values were key
amongst the factors that resulted in Bradford & Bingley
selecting The Co-operative Bank ahead of other
competitors.
An existing partnership that has strengthened and
developed over the last year is that between the
European Investment Bank (EIB) and ourselves. In
November 2001, the EIB Loan Scheme was created to
help finance the growth of businesses in EU-assisted
areas of the UK. In September 2002, we mutually lowered
the minimum loan value from £250,000 to £100,000, to
enable more of our SME customers to benefit.
At the same time, our growing profile within the Local
Authority sector placed us in a strong position to
participate in the Affordable Warmth Programme in
partnership with Transco and EIB. We developed a new
loan scheme, which is being used to assist local
authorities and social housing landlords finance the
installation of energy efficient heating systems, thus
reducing energy costs and improving comfort levels 
for residents.
The Co-operative movement Our 
co-operative heritage continues to inform and guide
everything we do – it is reflected in our strategies and
our products and services, in our community
involvement programmes and in our brand values.
2002 saw a concerted effort to strengthen the
relationship between the Co-operative movement and
the growing UK social enterprise sector. The bank
chaired a cross-movement group on these issues,
which led to a major Co-operative and social enterprise
event at the Department of Trade and Industry in
February 2002, and a meeting between Tony Blair and
key representatives from the Co-operative movement
and the social enterprise sector at 10 Downing Street.
Following the recommendations of the Co-operative
Commission, which published its findings and
recommendations in 2001, a new foundation
organisation, ‘Co-operative Action’, was launched in
April 2002. Co-operative Action has been established
to assist communities to develop co-operative, mutual
or social enterprises, through the provision of grants
and loans. The foundation has been created from
donations made by Co-operatives throughout the UK.
The bank’s Chief Executive, Mervyn Pedelty, and other leading
figures from the Co-operative movement, met with the Prime
Minister in February 2002 to discuss the role of co-operatives and
social enterprises in the UK economy. chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
12
The bank has been proud to take a key role in this
venture, contributing an initial £500,000 towards the
establishment of the foundation and encouraging staff
involvement in both the management team and the Board.
As part of the Co-operative family of businesses, we
continued our programme to install cash machines in
Co-operative retail stores throughout the UK. This
initiative continues to bring banking facilities into areas
that often had none and, as such, is an important part
of our continuing efforts to promote financial inclusion.
It is also an excellent example of the unique
advantages of co-operation in action.
In May 2002, this partnership brought about the launch
of the new Co-op Dividend VISA credit card. Having
revived the famous ‘Divi’ through its Dividend card, the
Co-operative Group’s retail operations can now offer
customers not only the chance to earn extra Dividend
at its own stores, but also an additional Dividend at any
outlet displaying the VISA symbol.  
Our home in the Co-operative family of businesses
allows us to explore different ways of delivering our
services to our customers. For example, we have
recently brought together the Co-operative Group’s
travel business, Travelcare, with CIS and our own
banking services in our flagship central Manchester
retail outlet at No.1 Balloon Street.
A responsible company Possibly the best
modern expression of our co-operative values is the
priority we are able to give to ethical, social and
ecological issues. Over the years, we have built a
strong reputation in these areas and our commitment
was recognised not only nationally but also globally 
in 2002. A Queen’s Award for Enterprise, in the
Sustainable Development category, was conferred on
the bank in April 2002 in recognition of our Partnership
Approach to management. Later in 2002, we were also
honoured to receive the Special Judges’ Award for
Overall Corporate Social Responsibility Performance at
the prestigious New York-based Global Corporate
Conscience Awards, effectively making us the first UK
company to be named as the world’s most socially
responsible business.
In May 2002, we marked the tenth anniversary of our
ethical stance by launching our updated policy. The
new policy is a clear statement of who we will, and will
not, do business with. Its publication followed an
extensive consultation with customers, which took
place over an 18-month period. My colleagues and I
were very pleased with the response – particularly as
the results revealed growing interest in, and support
for, our ethical policy amongst both business and
personal customers.
In our annual Partnership Report, published alongside
these financial statements, we provide much more
detailed information about our partners’ attitudes
towards our ethical policy and about our performance
against a number of other key ethical and ecological
indicators. We began producing this separate ‘warts
and all’ sustainability assessment in 1998, and we are
still the only UK retail bank to produce such an
independently verified report. In March 2003, our
Partnership Report was declared to be the Best
Sustainability Report in the UK at the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants UK Awards for
Sustainability Reporting 2002. This followed international
recognition in 2002, when the United Nations
Environment Programme (UNEP) and SustainAbility
Our revised Ethical Policy was
published in May 2002. ranked the bank’s report as first in the biennial Global
Benchmark of Sustainability Reporting.
Our 2002 Partnership Report records the major
progress the bank has made in recent years towards
reducing its ecological impact. Almost two-thirds of 
the waste now leaving the bank is either reused or
recycled, and the carbon dioxide emissions resulting
from the electricity consumption of our buildings have
reduced by 90% per customer account since 1997 –
with 98% of the electricity we use now being sourced
from renewable sources. I am also proud to report that,
at a time when the world is losing species at an ever-
increasing rate, the bank's own initiatives on
biodiversity have resulted in the amount of land with
significantly increased biodiversity being ninety times
greater than the land occupied by the bank’s operations.
We also upheld our strong campaigning tradition in
2002 with the latest ‘Customers Who Care’ initiative,
which drew attention to the humanitarian impacts of
cluster bombs. The campaign calls for a new
international protocol on the post-conflict clearance of
unexploded weapons, including cluster bombs. In
June 2002, we welcomed the Rt Hon Clare Short MP,
Secretary of State for International Development, to the
Westminster launch of Explosive Remnants of War, a
report we produced with our campaign partners
Landmine Action (a coalition which includes many
major charities, such as Amnesty International,
Christian Aid and Oxfam). The first of its kind to
document the social and humanitarian impacts of
unexploded ordnance, the report has been
commended by the UK Government as having made a
useful and positive contribution to moving discussions
forward. The report also continues to be a key tool for
our partners as they lobby the UN to adopt a new
international agreement on explosive remnants of war
(ERW). These activities achieved a successful outcome
when, in December 2002, the UN announced that
negotiations to establish an international agreement 
on ERW would commence in 2003. The bank will
continue to support Landmine Action in 2003 as the
UN negotiations progress.
2003 and beyond Looking ahead, I am
confident that the bank’s belief in its ethical, social and
ecological responsibilities – combined with our
investments in our people, customer focus and
product innovation – will continue to serve us well.
The UK banking sector is now operating in an
environment of significantly increased competition and
greater regulation. With the economic prospects for
the UK and many other countries being currently
somewhat uncertain, I can only be cautiously optimistic
that 2003 should be another rewarding year for The
Co-operative Bank.
The recent establishment of Co-operative Financial
Services (CFS) is an important event that will help us to
bring the benefits of the Co-operative approach to an
even wider audience. As the two businesses of The
Co-operative Bank and CIS work increasingly more
closely together, the benefits of a broader range of
products, services and convenient access for our
customers should be considerable.
chief executive’s overview
The Co-operative Bank p.l.c.
13
Mervyn Pedelty, Chief Executive
Richard Lloyd of Landmine Action and Mervyn Pedelty were
joined by The Rt Hon Clare Short MP at the Westminster launch
of the research report, Explosive Remnants of War
