 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
The Group has many 
issues which require 
attention to arrest  
and reverse the  
current negative 
performance  
trajectory and this  
is the relentless focus
There is significant untapped 
potential to exploit 
In the short time I have been with the business,  
I have been able to visit Cobham sites in France, 
Australia, the UK and the US. At each of these  
sites I have met people committed to the 
technology, products, systems and services we  
offer our customers. They strive daily to meet  
the needs of all our stakeholders.
All too often we make it difficult for our  
employees to deliver the value from our offering 
to our customers. There have been extensive 
reorganisation costs incurred over the last five years 
which illustrates an increasing level of change.
Financially, it was a very challenging year for 
Cobham and we have reported a statutory 
operating loss of £779.1m and basic earnings per 
share of (52.8)p. On an underlying basis, we have 
reported an operating profit of £225.0m. Organic 
revenue showed a disappointing 7.7% decline 
year-on-year.
In hindsight, it is clear that the integration of 
Aeroflex into Cobham, alongside the management 
of pre-existing change programmes, was beyond 
the capability of the Group, despite extensive  
spend on third party help. Momentum was lost  
and the Group became internally focused. These 
factors, combined with poorer than expected 
results in 2016, ultimately resulted in the major 
goodwill impairment we have taken, as well as  
a loss of talent and capability. 
Underlying issues
The Group has many issues which require  
attention to reverse the current negative 
performance trajectory and this is the relentless 
focus for every employee, starting with me. 
During 2016, there have been a succession of 
performance issues in a number of Cobham 
businesses. These have stemmed from weaknesses 
in management and financial controls; contractual 
and commercial failures and, in a few businesses, 
more challenging market conditions. 
Change projects and initiatives driven from the 
centre have diverted focus from improving  
critical production, operational and contract 
performance. These change programmes have 
consumed significant financial resources and 
management energy over a number of years  
with disappointing outcomes. 
06
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com STRATEGIC REPORT
Actions to address the Balance Sheet
Year end net debt was £1,028.2m, a reduction of 
£178.6m on the prior year, after the £490.6m net 
proceeds from the June 2016 rights issue. Net debt 
also reflected the Group’s modest free cash flow 
generation, £126.1m of dividend payments and 
adverse exchange rate movements of £236.4m.  
Due to the limited reduction in net debt and the 
lower than expected profitability, the Group’s net 
debt/EBITDA ratio at the year end at 3.0x was slightly 
higher than at 31 December 2015, but remains 
within the covenant upper threshold.
As the Chairman has stated, the balance sheet  
is not strong enough to support the operations of 
the Group, given the important role it plays in many 
customer programmes. A stronger balance sheet will 
underpin the confidence of our customers and other 
stakeholders, supporting our medium term growth 
aspiration, for the benefit of our shareholders. 
The Group is targeting a net debt/EBITDA gearing 
ratio of around 1.5x. This should be an appropriate 
capital structure given the requirement for balance 
sheet strength. The timeframe to achieving  
this target needs to be accelerated to give our 
customers, suppliers and employees confidence  
in our financial position. 
Having considered the cash required to complete  
our ongoing development programmes, including 
the impact of the provisions taken at the year end, 
and to strengthen our balance sheet position, the 
Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s best 
interests to raise £500m by way of a rights issue, 
which is fully underwritten on a standby basis and  
on customary market conditions. The rights issue  
is anticipated to complete during the second  
quarter of 2017.
The Board intends to use the proceeds of the  
rights issue to pay down borrowings on its revolving 
credit facilities. There is no current intention to 
pay down the senior notes prior to maturity and 
incur make-whole charges before the Group has 
refinanced its bank facilities in 2018. The Board also 
intends to more closely align the currency mix of 
net debt with the currency mix of profits, thereby 
reducing foreign exchange exposure on the gearing 
ratio (net debt/EBITDA).
However the Group will also look to optimise its 
working capital position over time and, as noted 
above, will consider the breadth and shape of  
the portfolio.
David Lockwood
Chief Executive Officer
2 March 2017
In 2016, Cobham spent approximately £130.2m,  
or 8.2% of revenue, on Private Venture (PV),  
or company funded R&D. This was matched by  
a broadly similar amount funded by our customers. 
This investment provides a powerful platform on 
which we can develop world-class technologies  
with significant commercial advantages. In the 
past, the substantial programme of technology 
investment has not always yielded the expected 
returns. We will be looking at ways of focusing this 
R&D spend to generate maximum shareholder value. 
Leadership and simplification
We will reduce complexity and duplication in the  
business by simplifying systems, processes and 
reporting and, with this in mind, we are also 
commencing a review of the breadth and shape  
of the Group’s portfolio. 
By aligning reduced complexity with strong  
and visible leadership, we will build a sense of 
momentum and clear purpose among Cobham’s 
management and employees. This will also improve 
accountability and enhance the speed and quality  
of decision making. 
To help me drive all these priorities, I am pleased  
that David Mellors has joined me as Cobham’s CFO. 
David is an experienced CFO, who, among other 
attributes, has a proven track record of improving 
financial discipline, driving cash generation and 
achieving effective cost control. As with any new 
partnership, you can strike lucky, and this is one  
such occurrence.
 
Outlook
Whilst market uncertainties undoubtedly exist, the 
ability of the Group to forecast performance is  
not as strong as it should be which contributes to  
our early view for 2017 having a wide range of 
potential outcomes. 
The Group has many operational issues which 
require attention in addition to arresting and 
reversing the current negative performance 
trajectory. Some actions to address these have 
already commenced but are at an early stage.  
Some actions may also have associated costs.  
Given these and the issues highlighted above,  
the Board considers that delivery of a similar 
performance to that of 2016 in 2017 may  
be challenging.
Despite the challenges facing Cobham, the Group 
has a portfolio of businesses with differentiated 
technologies and know-how, and it has leading 
positions in attractive markets. These offer good 
opportunities over the medium term and the Board 
is confident that the fortunes of the company will  
be restored over time.
The Group’s reporting structures, including  
its internal processes and the allocation of 
responsibilities have become overly complex  
and unclear. In a number of instances, this has led  
to duplication, reduced accountability and slow 
decision making, which has contributed to the period 
of sustained operational and financial challenges. 
This situation has ultimately impacted employee 
motivation and morale, evidenced by Cobham’s  
high voluntary staff turnover.
Furthermore, with hindsight, the Group may have 
misread the cycles within its markets and within 
its businesses, making poorly timed acquisitions or 
integrating them poorly. These acquisitions appear 
to have amplified internal weaknesses, rather than 
compensated for them. 
Technology and market positions 
The poor 2016 outcome and the underlying 
problems set out above are in stark contrast to  
what I have seen since I became Cobham’s Chief 
Executive Officer on 14 December 2016. The Group 
holds leading positions in many of its specialist 
markets, and its technologies are critical to customer 
needs. Many of these markets are highly attractive 
and offer good medium term opportunities. The high 
technology value-add and Cobham’s leading market 
positions represent significant barriers to entry. The 
key, of course, is to monetise these attributes by 
improving our execution.
Consistent with these observations, I have also met  
a number of customers and partners, and have had 
very encouraging early engagements with them. It  
is apparent that there are many opportunities for  
our businesses to increase market share, as there is  
a need and a real enthusiasm for the products and 
services that Cobham can offer. 
Priorities for 2017
Having carefully considered the Group’s position,  
I have set the following priorities for 2017:
Control and execution
With leadership from the top, we need to  
deliver consistently to our customers’ and 
shareholders’ expectations, recognising that we  
have not always done so. We are in the early  
stages of enhancing our management controls  
and our operational and financial disciplines to 
address this, understanding that a strong operational 
performance and financial control are key pillars of 
improvement for us. 
 
Customer focus
It is also vital that we bring additional focus to  
our customer relationships. This starts with me,  
the CEO, and then must be reflected throughout  
our businesses. We will allocate an appropriate  
level of resource and contact to each customer  
and prioritise winning and retaining key platform  
and programme positions. 
07
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
