  
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT  
  6 
Rajiv Sharma 
Group Chief Executive  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Share gains and self-help  
initiatives enabled strong results  
in a tough market’ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Both Gotex and Fast React are 
performing strongly – ahead of 
management expectations’ 
 
 
 
 
‘I AM EXCITED TO BE TAKING ON THIS NEW  
ROLE, GUIDING COATS AS WE MOVE FROM  
AN INDUSTRIAL TO A DIGITAL AGE’ 
Dear Shareholder 
I am pleased to present this Annual Report, my first as Group Chief Executive. To begin, I 
would like to thank Paul Forman, from whom I took over on 1 January 2017. I’ve had the 
pleasure of working with Paul to transform Coats into a growth company and we now have  
a solid foundation to take us forward. 
I am excited to be taking on this new role, guiding Coats as we move from an industrial to a 
digital age. The big opportunity in front of us as an organisation is how can we best serve our 
customers in an era of hyper digital connectivity and 24/7 online presence. The need for speed 
and service is greater than ever. The statement on the cover of this document – ‘Harnessing 
talent and technology in textiles’ outlines our intent. We will continue to provide value – not 
just as a supplier of premium thread, yarns and zips – but as a thought leader in the industry 
applying talent and technology to solve customer problems. Manufacturing will always be at 
the heart of what we do, but increasingly our innovation, digital, commercial and consulting 
capabilities give us a critical edge. We will apply our industry insight and global expertise to 
connect with customers across the globe and to enhance their lives. I will return to these 
themes in more detail later. 
2016 performance  
Coats generated revenues of $1,457 million in 2016, a 2% CER underlying growth on 2015 
($1,432 million) . Industrial sales grew 4% driven by share gains in Apparel and Footwear, 
product innovation, geographic expansion in Performance Materials (previously Speciality), 
along with the impact of bolt-on acquisitions. Organic sales growth in the Industrial Division  
of 2% was marginally behind the 3% growth reported in H1 as mixed demand from clothing 
retailers and manufacturers in US consumer durable markets continued throughout the later 
part of the year. Crafts sales fell 8% due to a sharp contraction in the US handknitting market 
predominantly caused by a mild North American winter, although this contraction slowed in 
the latter part of 2016 (H2 decline 4%).  
Group adjusted operating profit increased 16% to $158 million (2015: $136 million) , 
although this was a lower growth rate than the strong performance delivered in H1 of 24%. 
Industrial full year adjusted operating profit grew 18% and margins were up 160 basis  
points (bps) to 12.7% due to volume growth, lower raw material prices, productivity and 
procurement improvements, and tight cost control. Excluding acquisitions, Industrial adjusted 
operating profit grew by 16%.  
For more details, see Operational and Financial reviews on pages 26 to 31. 
Strategic progress 
In June 2016, we announced the acquisitions of Gotex and Fast React Systems for initial 
consideration of $28 million and $7 million, respectively. 
Gotex designs and manufactures high-tech industrial yarns and tapes to protect, reinforce  
and insulate cables and pipes in the telecommunications, energy and oil and gas sectors. Its 
market-leading fibreglass technology and products complement Coats’ fibre optic product 
range, while Coats will support Gotex in further expanding into high-growth markets. 
Fast React provides software solutions and expertise to A&F manufacturers and retailers, 
enabling Coats Global Services to offer an even wider range of operational improvement tools 
to customers. This follows our acquisition of GSD in 2015, which has more than doubled  
like for like sales in 2016 (when compared to the eight months of post-acquisition ownership 
in 2015). 
Both Gotex and Fast React are performing strongly – ahead of management expectations – 
having delivered $3 million of operating profit in the year since acquisition, achieved by 
leveraging Coats’ global reach and strong customer relationships.   
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
STATEMENT CONTINUED 
  7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘Customer experience, digital, 
simplification, innovation, service,  
talent and technology will enable  
future success’ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘In both Footwear and Performance 
Materials, we are “moving beyond  
the stitch line”’ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alternative Performance 
Measures – see note 37  
on page 146. 
 
Key strategic themes 
Our goals as an organisation are to ensure profitable sales growth, to increase productivity, 
and to deliver value. In doing so we must always focus on our three primary stakeholders –  
our customers, our shareholders and our employees. Our customers are looking for unique 
products, services and digital solutions, while value for shareholders requires a strategic 
balance of growth and efficiency, resulting in sustainable and high quality earnings. For our 
employees, we must provide an environment that offers them growth to reach their maximum 
potential within a safe, respectful and inclusive workplace. 
Integrating these imperatives with our priorities as a business – customer experience;  
digital; talent; innovation; and simplification – has given us a clear path forward. Coats  
will develop capabilities in data science, mathematical modelling and simulation to foster 
higher quality decisions and actions. We will build on our success in digital by providing 
superior customer experience. Our digital channels are helping us to win customers, increase 
agility and reduce costs: 
 our online thread availability system eComm has been incorporated into our main 25 
markets and for 12,000 of our customers, representing some 70% of total thread orders; 
 we now offer a fully digitised colour supply chain that digitises the customer’s sample 
request at its location and transmits directly to our laboratories in real time; 
 Redheart.com is the biggest hand knitting inspiration and ideas portal in the US, with over 
4.6 million knitting projects being downloaded in 2016; and 
 we have moved to SAP’s latest version, HANA, and are the first company to host this on 
Microsoft Cloud (Azure). Over 90% of our applications are now hosted on the cloud. 
In both Footwear and Performance Materials we are ‘moving beyond the stitch line’, with a 
number of Footwear-related projects that explore the potential of engineered yarns, and the 
globalisation of Performance Materials with bolt-on acquisitions and a move into exciting areas 
such as composites and mechanical rubber goods. This follows our recent acquisitions of both 
Fast React and GSD, giving us the means to provide the apparel industry with the cutting-edge 
operational improvement tools it will need to thrive. 
At an operational level, I firmly believe the key enablers for the organisation are simplification, 
efficiency, innovation, service and technology. Integrating these into the business will be critical 
and, to this end, we have already made the following changes: 
 Speciality was renamed ‘Performance Materials’ – to better reflect the present and future 
state of this growth area of the business; 
 three senior management teams are streamlined into one Group Executive Team (GET) – 
enabling better alignment, faster decisions and more agility; and 
 our Technology and Digital teams have been merged to drive faster results delivery  
at lower costs. 
For more details see, Strategy on pages on 12 to 13 and the GET biographies on page 35. 
Outlook  
We enter 2017 on a solid footing however remain cautious about market conditions. We 
expect to continue to deliver growth in line with management’s expectations through our 
initiatives to deliver market share gains, productivity improvements and tight cost control. This 
growth is likely to be weighted to the second half of the year due to strong profit growth in 
H1 2016, and may also be subject to further foreign exchange headwinds on translation that 
have been seen in recent periods. We will also continue to focus on cash flow generation in 
order to allow us to continue to reinvest in organic and inorganic growth opportunities 
Rajiv Sharma 
Group Chief Executive  
9 March 2017 
 
