  
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT 
 
  4 
Mike Clasper 
Chairman 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘THE ROLE OF THE BOARD IS TO ACT AS 
CUSTODIANS OF SHAREHOLDER VALUE  
FOR THE LONG TERM’ 
Dear Shareholder 
The past year has been one of significant change; a year in which international events 
presented the business world with new challenges and opportunities. For Coats 2016 was  
the year in which we evolved more fully into our new role, delisting from the Australian and 
New Zealand stock exchanges and making key Board and Group changes so that we can 
approach the coming year in the best possible shape. 
Governance 
Paul Forman, our Chief Executive for seven years, stood down on 31 December 2016 and  
was succeeded by Rajiv Sharma, an Executive Director and previously Global CEO, Industrial. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Paul for his outstanding contribution as Chief 
Executive. Paul oversaw our rationalisation from being one of many diverse investments of 
holding company, Guinness Peat Group, to our successful standalone status as a listed entity. 
He forged our growth through acquisitions, and instigated and delivered a clear vision and 
corporate strategy to position the business as an innovative and global industry leader. We  
will miss his trademark energy and dynamism, and wish him success in his new role. 
Paul and I have worked closely with the Board to ensure as smooth a transition as possible and 
considered both internal and external candidates for his successor. The Board decided that 
Rajiv was the best candidate, given his global experience and multi-disciplinary expertise, and 
his track record in profitable sales growth. He formally took over from Paul on 1 January 2017. 
We would also like to welcome our new Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Simon Boddie, who has 
been in place since the beginning of July, following Richard Howes’ departure in April 2016. 
Our search for a suitable CFO led us to Simon, who brings with him 30 years of financial 
expertise in international operations, emerging markets and digital, as well as demonstrable 
FTSE 250 experience. 
In October, we welcomed Non-Executive Director, Frances Philip. Fran has relationships  
with major retailers and brands, and her skills and experience will add weight to our aim of 
becoming the leading value added partner to the apparel, footwear and accessories industries. 
The role of the Board is to act as custodians of shareholder value for the long term and, with 
these Board changes, I am confident that we now have a well-balanced Board that, in terms 
of good governance, is functioning very effectively – setting Coats’ purpose and strategic 
direction, and overseeing the reinforcement of the appropriate culture throughout the Group. 
Pensions 
I am very happy to report that we reached settlement with the Trustees of the Coats UK and 
Brunel pension schemes, which represents approximately 90% of Coats’ UK pension liabilities 
and scheme members.  
In February 2017, we announced that the Company had signed binding settlement 
agreements with the Trustees of the UK Coats Pension Plan and Brunel Holdings Pension 
Scheme. This has now completed and the Company has received written assurances from  
the UK Pensions Regulator (TPR) that its regulatory action has ceased in relation to these two 
schemes under the Warning Notices that it issued to the Company in 2013 and 2014. The 
Trustees of the Staveley Scheme have not to date accepted the Company’s proposal regarding 
that scheme and currently the UK Pension Regulator’s investigation in connection with that 
scheme remains open. The proposal remains open to the Trustees of the Staveley Scheme  
and the parent group cash will be used for this purpose.  
Further details of the settlement can be found in the Financial review on page 28.   
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT CONTINUED 
  5 
‘It is our intention to pursue  
a progressive dividend policy’  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
‘This year’s strategic changes at both 
Board and Group level – backed up  
by the dedication of our employees – 
means we are facing the future with 
renewed vigour and confidence‘ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Alternative Performance 
Measures – see note 37  
on page 146. 
Dividend  
Following the pensions settlement agreement and the cessation of regulatory action by TPR 
related to those schemes, we have recommended a final dividend of 0.84 US cents per share 
for the full year 2016, representing a pro-forma full year dividend of 1.25 US cents per share.  
It is our intention to pursue a progressive dividend policy. 
Performance in 2016 
Coats delivered a strong performance in 2016 with organic revenue growth of 1% on a CER 
basis  and organic operating profit growth of 14%  despite challenging market conditions. 
We continued to take market share in Industrial, and introduced new and innovative products. 
Rajiv will be providing greater detail on our performance throughout the year in his inaugural 
Chief Executive statement on the next page. 
Personal highlights 
The year has had many standout moments and our core business has benefited from a 
tripartite focus on brands, digital and responsible conduct. 
Our brands are the core of our business; they showcase our latest innovations and market  
our relevance to end users and industry alike. In Apparel & Footwear (A&F), our premium 
apparel thread brand, Epic, continued to deliver sales and market share growth. In an industry 
first, we can now offer it in a water resistant range that is free from PFC chemical compounds 
– providing customers with strong sustainability credentials without compromising on 
performance; while in Performance Materials, our new composites brand, Synergex, launched 
when it was used as a wheel arch in a high performance sports car.  
In an increasingly digital world, we have been employing technology to operate ‘smarter’, 
rationalising key business areas so that we are faster and more efficient, and making it easier 
for our customers to work with us. In A&F, for example, we continued to drive customer 
adoption of eCommerce across all our key markets, while in procurement we are now a  
using a new workflow tool for price change management to drive efficiencies. 
We have also been working on the relationship side of procurement, running best practice 
workshops with suppliers and developing a Supplier Code – a set of standards and values 
which describe our expectations of suppliers in terms of labour practices, environmental 
management, responsible sourcing and business conduct. 
Finally, we achieved another significant collaboration in May, when we joined the Zero 
Discharge of Hazardous Chemicals (ZDHC) Programme. This industry-led alliance – which is a 
good fit with our existing Corporate Responsibility ethos – aims to protect consumers, workers 
and the environment by implementing sustainable chemistry and best practices throughout the 
textile and footwear industries. 
People 
Our employees are the driving force behind all our successes and once again they showed their 
commitment to the company in this year’s employee engagement survey. In total, 97% of our 
workforce took part, showing an engagement score of 83% (this indicates how proud people 
are to work at Coats and how willing they are to work toward achieving common goals). This 
maintains our position in the top 10% of companies globally for the third year running and is  
a great source of pride to us. 
During 2016, health and safety figures showed that reporting of incidents at work was slightly 
up on the previous year, although the severity of those incidents was not as serious. However, 
we remain vigilant in our monitoring of health and safety, which must always be a priority in 
an industry such as ours. 
Looking ahead 
World events contrived to create an atmosphere of uncertainty in the business world in 2016, 
but it was also the year in which we developed our identity as a listed company and further 
defined our business strategy. Coats draws upon a long and proud history, and this year’s 
strategic changes at both Board and Group level – backed up by the dedication of our 
employees – means we are facing the future with renewed vigour and confidence. 
Mike Clasper  
Chairman 
9 March 2017 
