 Cobham remains  
a fundamentally  
sound Group, with 
tremendous potential
Chairman’s Statement
It has been a deeply disappointing year for Cobham. 
Our financial performance fell short of our earlier 
expectations and the prior year. The business 
has faced exceptional market, execution and 
development programme challenges. With higher 
gearing entering 2016, combined with the challenges 
above and a weakening of sterling, we launched a 
rights issue which completed in June. Towards the 
end of the year we also saw the departure of our 
Chief Executive Office (CEO), Chief Financial Officer 
(CFO) and Chairman. We welcomed David Lockwood 
as CEO in December 2016 and David Mellors as 
CFO at the start of January 2017. In addition, I took 
over as Chairman on 1 January 2017. Despite such 
an adverse year, Cobham remains a fundamentally 
sound Group and it has tremendous potential, with 
excellent people and technology, and many leading 
market positions. We need to stabilise the Group 
during 2017 and ensure that it is strongly set for  
a full recovery over time. 
The June 2016 rights issue generated proceeds of 
£491m after expenses, which we used to pay down 
debt. However, the Group’s trading performance 
through the remainder of the year remained below 
our expectations, and there was disappointing free 
cash flow generation. The combination of higher 
debt and lower profits have been the primary factors 
which have resulted in our principal financial gearing 
ratio, net debt/EBITDA, being higher than anticipated 
at the year-end, at 3.0x. It has, however, remained 
within the covenant upper threshold, which is not  
to exceed 3.5x.
Since my appointment as Chairman was announced, 
I have met and spoken with a significant number 
of Cobham’s shareholders, and some consistent 
themes have emerged. Overall, shareholders want 
the Board to take actions which will create the 
underlying conditions from which we can generate 
shareholder value over the longer term, even if these 
mean making some difficult decisions. Many of our 
shareholders – and indeed many of our customers 
and other stakeholders – would like us to have  
a reduced level of gearing. After considering this 
matter carefully, the Board is targeting a net  
debt/EBITDA gearing ratio of around 1.5x. 
It has been a deeply 
disappointing year for Cobham 
04
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
We have entered 2017 still facing a number of 
challenges and uncertainties, but I believe that the 
key ingredients of our future success are already 
present, and Cobham has tremendous potential.  
This is a Group with differentiated technology  
and know-how and strong market positions, and 
it has a committed and skilful workforce. There 
is a need to deliver a sustainable improvement in 
a number of areas, including in our operational 
and financial execution. Not all this can be done 
immediately but under our new Executive Directors 
we will deliver, over time, the performance that our 
customers, shareholders and other stakeholders 
deserve and expect from Cobham.
 
Michael Wareing
Chairman
2 March 2017
Leading this effort is our new CEO, David Lockwood, 
who joined us from Laird PLC, a FTSE 250 technology 
company. He brings to Cobham a background 
in defence and communications technology, an 
entrepreneurial and customer driven mindset and 
a proven ability to grow businesses. Our new CFO, 
David Mellors, has joined us from QinetiQ Group plc, 
a FTSE 250 science and engineering company, which 
has operations primarily in defence and aerospace 
markets. During his time at that company he played 
a leading role in strengthening the balance sheet, 
refocusing the portfolio and delivering improved 
performance, with an enhanced positioning for 
growth. We are confident they have the right skills  
and capabilities to drive a sustainable improvement 
in the long term performance of the business.
The Board is very pleased to welcome our new 
Executive Directors. However, the performance 
of Cobham over the last twelve months has been 
deeply disappointing and it must take responsibility 
for that performance. While it has already undergone 
significant change over recent months, going 
forward, the Board believes it is important that a 
number of new and experienced Non-executive 
Directors are appointed. At the same time, it is 
important that Cobham can benefit from a period of 
stability and continuity. As a result, it is my intention 
to effect a rolling programme of material Board 
changes over the next two years. 
We are also setting up a Risk Committee as a formal 
sub-committee of the Board, chaired by David 
Lockwood. The Committee will also include  
in its membership Jonathan Flint, our Senior 
Independent Director.
Of course, we must also consider the future, so the 
Board will therefore endeavour to strengthen the 
quality and depth of Cobham’s management below 
Board level by reinvigorating our succession planning. 
This will help us identify, develop and promote 
the senior managers of the future from within the 
business. However, done diligently, this is not a quick 
task and it will take time to develop a robust and 
comprehensive plan.
I would like to thank our employees. They have 
consistently shown great commitment, fortitude 
and hard work through a challenging year. These 
attributes, when combined with Cobham’s specialist 
capabilities, and our leading positions in attractive 
markets lies at the core of what Cobham offers.  
I know I can rely on our employees to give  
David Lockwood and David Mellors the same 
unstinting support.
As a necessary part of our plans to strengthen 
the balance sheet, the Board has decided not 
to recommend a final dividend in respect of 
financial year 2016. Furthermore, the Board will not 
recommend a dividend in respect of financial year 
2017 and we expect to resume dividend payments 
when it is prudent to do so. This will take into 
account a number of factors, including the Group’s 
underlying earnings, cash flow and gearing, its 
investment needs and the requirement to maintain 
an appropriate level of dividend cover.  
Despite this action, we still need the balance 
sheet to be stronger to properly support our 
operations, including the required investment in 
our development programmes. Therefore, the 
Board has concluded that it is in the Group’s best 
interests to raise new equity finance by way of a 
£500m rights issue. In requesting further funding 
from shareholders, we recognise the imperative for 
the Group to review its portfolio of businesses and 
optimise its internal cash generation, and this will lie 
at the heart of management actions in 2017.
Undertaking a structural deleveraging of the balance 
sheet is only part of the answer. We must also strive 
to grow through cycles with a renewed focus on our 
customers and a thorough understanding of their 
needs, and the opportunities this affords. From this 
insight we can ensure our significant technology 
investment is spent effectively, by focusing it on 
the most promising opportunities. This will drive our 
order pipeline and future revenue streams.
Allied to this, we need to improve our financial 
discipline and consistently deliver to expectations. 
This means focusing on how we track future 
customer orders and revenue; it means looking  
hard at our cost base; and taking the necessary 
actions to return Cobham to improved levels of  
cash generation.  
We can create the right conditions in the  
businesses by reducing the number of change 
programmes driven from the centre. Removal of 
these distractions will enable our businesses to  
focus on the critical tasks of execution and  
delivery, whether it is engineering, production or 
progressing specific contracts. 
05
Cobham plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
www.cobham.com www.cobham.com
STRATEGIC REPORT
