 BOC performed well in 2003, although many of the world’s 
leading industrial countries remained in the economic doldrums.
The semiconductor industry, the key to BOC Edwards’ profitability,
showed only limited signs of recovery following a prolonged downturn.
Financial overview
In managing our business we use financial results excluding exceptional
items, referred to as ‘adjusted’, and at constant currencies as the best 
way to report results and to reflect the nature of our business.
Exceptional items are exactly that, one-off events that would distort the
figures if not reported separately, while constant currencies show best 
how we are doing in our local markets.The products and services we 
sell and their associated costs are largely contained in the 50 or so
countries where we operate; we export relatively little. Currencies have 
an effect when we translate our turnover and profit into pounds sterling.
We could have a bumper year, improving our business and market
position around the world, yet we could report reduced turnover and
profit if the pound was strong. Conversely, a weak pound could at face
value disguise poor performance.
On this basis, we increased turnover this year by nine per cent,
the result of actions over recent years to grow in existing markets 
and enter new ones.Adjusted operating profit rose by one per cent.
This improved performance was not reflected in adjusted profit before
tax, which declined by four per cent because of a lower net pension 
credit largely resulting from lower equity valuations. Comments below 
on business performance are also given on this basis.
Since announcing our preliminary results on 13 November 2003 
The BOCGroup Cash Balance Retirement Plan in the US has reached
agreement in principle to settle an action against it for US$69 million.
This was shown as a contingent liability in the preliminary results 
when we stated that the potential liability could reach US$116 million.
The award will be paid out of the assets of the Plan but under UK
accounting principles the payment has been recognised as a charge in 
the profit and loss account. Our statutory results include exceptional items
and comparisons with the previous year reflect changes in the relative
value of currencies. On this basis, we increased turnover by eight per cent
and operating profit by three per cent. Profit before tax increased by 
five per cent.
Operating cash flow was eight per cent lower than last year.
There were a number of reasons for this: BOC Edwards contributed 
less cash; currency changes had a negative impact; and, having merged 
our gases business in Japan with part of Air Liquide Japan, BOC no 
longer consolidates the cash flow from the combined operation,
receiving a dividend instead.We also resumed cash contributions to 
the UK pensions scheme.
This year
We entered the year having just merged our plant building business 
with Linde Engineering in the US to form Linde BOC Process Plants LLC.
This combination guarantees us access to world-class technology and 
it is working well, delivering the capability and the cost savings we had
predicted.We were also at various stages of finalising four more strategic
ventures.Three were acquisitions: Praxair’s Polish industrial gases business,
Air Products’ Canadian packaged gas business and Environmental
Management Corporation, a privately held US water services company.
The fourth was the merger I referred to above, the combination of 
our OSK business in Japan with part of Air Liquide Japan to create 
Japan Air Gases.
The Polish and Canadian acquisitions are in important markets for us
and they strengthen our positions there. In both cases they give us better
national coverage and add to the range of products and services we can
offer our customers. Environmental Management Corporation manages
water and wastewater treatment facilities for industrial and municipal
customers around the US; BOC has a strong industrial customer base and
it is a natural extension to manage the water cycle for such customers.
The emphasis now, as it is with all our recent acquisitions, is to achieve 
the growth and profit forecasts that were the reasons for making the
acquisitions in the first place.All three are well on the way to doing that.
The reasons for forming Japan Air Gases were different. Japanese
growth has been disappointingly low in recent years and the combined
business promised to be more efficient with a lower cost base. Cost savings
at the rate of Japanese Y en 5 billion a year are confidently predicted by the
end of next year and a revitalised business is showing signs of growth.
Chief executive’s review
06 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
“Concentrating on 
safety, performance
and profitable growth” In recent years we have reviewed all our investments, seeking to add to
our capability where we could grow profitably and finding other solutions
for assets that either fit less well strategically or have not delivered the
returns we expect.
Our businesses are performing well
Our three lines of business – Process Gas Solutions, Industrial and Special
Products and BOC Edwards – produce 85 per cent of BOC’s turnover
and 88 per cent of its adjusted operating profit.The rest comes from our
two specialist businesses,Afrox hospitals and Gist.The line of business
structure remains unique in the industrial gases industry and is a major
competitive advantage for us.We continue to work hard at delivering
exemplary customer service and this has enabled us to grow our top line
sales, to obtain order renewals and to gain acceptance for price increases.
Process Gas Solutions (PGS) serves our larger customers. Many of
them operate on a global scale and we invest wherever they require
industrial gases. PGS did well last year, growing turnover by eight per cent
and adjusted operating profit by three per cent. Most of the growth 
came from acquisitions and new liquefied gases business. Shortly after the 
year ended we announced further investments in China totalling over 
US$100 million.
Industrial and Special Products, centred on our cylinder business,
increased its turnover by nine per cent, but good profit performance in
most countries was undermined by a weak result in the US, leading to a
decline in adjusted operating profit of three per cent.
BOC Edwards has performed well considering the prolonged
downturn of the semiconductor industry. It has paid close attention to its
cost base, matching it closely to demand.Turnover was £684.1 million with
adjusted operating profit £18.5 million.
Afrox hospitals and Gist delivered particularly good results.
Afrox hospitals grew turnover by 16 per cent and adjusted operating
profit by 31 per cent. Gist delivered increases of ten per cent and 
13 per cent respectively.African Oxygen Limited, the majority shareholder
in Afrox Healthcare Limited, announced in July 2003 that it was conducting
a strategic review of the hospitals business. On 17 November it
announced that, subject to conditions, it had agreed to sell its entire
holding in Afrox Healthcare Limited to a consortium of Black Economic
Empowerment investors.
Each year I make the point that while financial performance is
important, it is not our only measure of success. I make no apologies for
stating that safety remains our highest priority. No manager can be content
if anyone is hurt in the process of doing business, but I also believe that
safe operations reduce business risk and contribute eventually to improved
profits.We are concentrating on changing the behaviour of everyone in
BOC to make sure that safety really does come first.
This year we developed our Code of Conduct, based on important
social, environmental and good governance business principles.
People throughout BOC helped prepare it and we are in the process 
of communicating it to everyone in BOC. It states clearly what we 
expect to ensure we meet our legal and ethical obligations; to make 
sure we always do the right thing.Y ou will find a copy on our website,
www.boc.com. I think you will agree it is something we can be proud 
of and I can assure you we are implementing it in an effective and 
practical way.
I thank all the employees of BOC for their efforts this year. I thank
our customers for doing business with us and our suppliers for their
contribution. I thank you, our shareholders, for your support through
difficult economic times.We will continue to strive to deliver attractive
returns on your investment.
Tony Isaac Chief executive
07 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
