 Chairman’s statement
“ Our Board and management team have been 
strengthened this year and have set the vision and 
clear strategic initiatives to achieve our goals.”
 David Evans, Chairman
Summary
• We now have many additional customer 
opportunities in both North America and Asia.
• The benefits of having ‘sticky’ revenues from 
embedded products will ensure 70% of the 
Group’s ongoing revenues are secured.
• The acquisition of ChondroMimetic represents 
a significant value creating opportunity.
I am pleased to present Collagen Solutions’ annual report 
and accounts for the year ended 31 March 2016. 
Revenue growth
The year under review has been one of positive progress for 
the Group as a whole, with a very strong contribution to revenue 
growth from Southern Lights Biomaterials, which we acquired in 
December 2014. This has enhanced our global reach and provided 
access to safe new tissue and biomaterial sourcing in New Zealand 
and Australia, which are negligible BSE risk sources. In addition, we 
now have many additional customer opportunities in North America 
and especially in Asia, where we have now appointed an experienced 
Regional Commercial Manager in Korea. We have invested in a new 
multi-purpose processing facility in New Zealand to allow product 
development and prototyping to be carried out without disruption 
to our main contract manufacturing operations. As part of this 
investment we have also increased our headcount in quality 
assurance, R&D and production functions there.
Innovation and IP
In September, we were able to acquire an exclusive IP licence to 
a very exciting biomaterials platform technology based around 
a bi-layered collagen sponge which is the result of many years’ 
research at the University of Cambridge and MIT. It is my view that 
we have the ability to create significant strategic value through 
appropriate partnering and investment in a way that de-risks 
the Company’s opportunity in collagen biomaterial applications.
In May, we announced the granting of a US patent for the processing 
of a novel biomaterial for heart valve surgery patients and other 
applications. During the course of the last year we have announced 
collaborations with various academic and industry partners, 
including our participation in a prestigious European Horizon 2020 
consortium to develop a disease-modifying therapy for Parkinson’s 
which could slow down the progression of the disease rather than 
offer symptomatic benefits.
Board and management
In November 2015, we sadly lost the talents of Dr Kevin Wilson who 
passed away after a short illness. At a purely personal level, I lost a 
true friend and, at a corporate level, Collagen Solutions has lost one 
View our governance Page 20
STRATEGIC REPORT
4 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2016 of its founding shareholders who had a hugely positive influence 
on the Company. We have not yet replaced Kevin as a non-executive 
director as later this year Geoff Bennett will move from his current 
executive position to a non-executive position.
In May 2016, we announced a leadership change which will allow 
the Group to accelerate its strategic plans and initiatives. Jamal Rushdy, 
who initially joined the senior management team as Chief Business 
Officer and has over 20 years’ experience in the medical device 
arena, having most recently served as Vice President at Tornier Inc., 
took on the role of Chief Executive Officer. He has a track record of 
building businesses with successful exits and transforming organisations 
through integration and performance improvement, adding value 
through business development and leadership. In promoting Jamal 
to his new leadership position I did so in the knowledge that we are 
on a journey and that Jamal has the requisite leadership qualities 
for the next stage of our journey. 
Moving to the role of Chief Scientific Officer, Dr Stewart White, 
Collagen Solutions’ founder, now leads our R&D and product -related 
corporate activities and will focus on the Company’s product 
development and innovation platform whilst also realising value from 
innovative technologies such as the ChondroMimetic portfolio of assets. 
I have a huge admiration for Stewart and what we have achieved 
together in the formation and growth of Collagen Solutions, and it is 
a testimony to his professionalism that he has taken on his new role 
and has continued to provide the necessary support to Jamal in his 
recent appointment.
At the start of the year, we added the considerable experience of 
Tom Hyland to our management team, who joined the Company as 
Chief Operating Officer. Tom has over 20 years’ collagen chemistry 
knowledge having worked in senior roles in various global medical 
device and life science organisations. 
The Board is confident that we now have the right team in place 
to deliver the short to medium-term strategic goals and have also 
strengthened our functional teams to drive product innovation 
and take the business to the next level.
Overview
Our Board and management team have made substantial progress 
to put in place the clear organisation and detailed initiatives to drive 
our focused strategy in the current financial year and beyond, which 
is to build a leading global regenerative biomaterials business based 
upon a core supply, development and manufacturing platform, enhanced 
by developing our own novel products such as ChondroMimetic, across 
a range of clinical indications. This strategy remains our focus and we 
will continue to strengthen our core business through operational 
improvements and investing in innovation to create significant value.
The Group is still in its early stages of growth; however, we are 
pleased to report that progress has been made in terms of creating 
long-term shareholder value. In particular I would draw your attention 
to the following: 
• 
ChondroMimetic family IP and assets acquisition;
• 
distributor channels set up with Sigma, a part of Merck KGaA, 
BBI Solutions and a Chinese JV with Cre8ive; and
• 
expansion of our global customer base and investment in our 
global sales and marketing operations.
We have set ourselves a goal to accrete value by creating a leading 
biomaterials business through a combination of organic growth 
and exploitation of our own and licensed IP, as well as through 
appropriate acquisitions, and we believe the momentum for 
achieving this is increasing.
Results
The Group’s results for the year ended 31 March 2016 are set out 
in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Revenue 
and other income for the year was £3,244,257 (2015: £1,035,500). 
Administrative expenses (before separately identifiable items) were 
£2,473,689 (2015: £1,265,918) and selling and marketing costs were 
£333,426 (2015: £218,732). Losses before interest, tax, depreciation 
and amortisation (LBITDA) (before separately identifiable costs) 
decreased to £410,016 (2015: £689,816) and the loss per share 
was 0.57p (2015: 1.17p). 
Net cash used in operations during the year was £194,821 
(2015: £1,070,812), net cash used in investing activities was £660,012 
(2015: £2,404,496) and net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities 
was £(25,591) (2015: £5,363,304). The Group’s cash balances at 
31 March 2016 were £2,493,146 (2015: £3,391,356).
Outlook
We have made a positive start to the current financial year and I am 
emboldened by the knowledge that the positive benefits of having 
‘sticky’ revenues from embedded products will ensure about 70% 
of the Group’s ongoing revenues are already, in effect, secured. 
Our challenges are to win new customers and execute our pipeline 
in a timely manner; we have invested in personnel to achieve this. 
Additionally, we are looking to successfully execute our R&D pipeline 
where the investment that we have made, and continue to make, 
begins to produce cash flow.
ChondroMimetic represents a significant value creating opportunity 
but to deliver this we need to be smart about how we execute our 
plan to ensure we are not putting shareholder value at risk.
It was through my colleague Kevin Wilson that we had the opportunity 
to be introduced to Cre8ive, with which we have formed a joint venture. 
I am very excited by this opportunity because I believe in and trust 
the people Kevin introduced. The Company has an initial JV Board 
meeting in Hong Kong in July and, while the scale of the opportunity 
is significant and exciting, it will take time to gain traction. Consequently, 
the Board views contributions from the joint venture being realised 
largely in the years beyond this current one.
The Company is on a journey and, whilst we have continued our 
journey positively this year, we require a higher level of momentum 
as we move on to the next stage in our development as a Company 
dedicated to enhancing shareholder value. I remain hugely committed 
to ensuring the success of Collagen Solutions and I know that commitment 
is shared throughout the Company. I would like to thank all of our 
employees and my fellow directors for their hard work and 
dedication throughout 2015/16.
I look forward to updating you further throughout the year. 
Thank you for your support.
David Evans
Non-executive Chairman
8 July 2016
5 Annual report and accounts 2016 Collagen Solutions plc
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
