 Last year I stated your board’s commitment to a strategy of delivering
superior returns for shareholders based on sustained growth in earnings
and improvements in capital efficiency.This requires increasing the scale
and scope of BOC while continuously improving the efficiency and
productivity of capital and other resources.
Consistent strategy
Y our company reviews and tests its strategy thoroughly each year.
The requirements and expectations of shareholders are compared 
with objective analysis of what the business can and should deliver.
This combination of top-down expectations with bottom-up capabilities
gives a rigorous framework for debate.When T ony Isaac and his
management team have completed their work, the board reviews 
and tests it in detail. Last year I described the forward programme for
BOC’s management and staff as ambitious and the board is pleased 
with the progress being made.
Within the corporate strategy each line of business and the specialist
businesses have their own strategies.The clarity of direction this gives is 
of great assistance to your board in overseeing proposed acquisitions,
strategic moves and the general progress of efficiency initiatives.
Last year I included two graphs looking at BOC’s financial
performance over the two-year period since the bid lapsed.The same
graphs are reproduced here, updated with this year’s data.The first 
shows total shareholder returns relative to all FTSE100 companies to 
30 September this year.The second compares BOC’s performance with 
its main global gases competitors.They again show your company’s strong
performance compared with other UK companies and the competitive
challenge presented by its global peers.
Dividends
In 2003 BOC paid a first interim dividend of 15.5p per share in February
and a second interim dividend of 23.5p per share in August.The total of
39p was an increase of 2.6 per cent on the year before.This year, in line
with its established policy, the board again proposes a first interim dividend
for 2004 of 15.5p.Any increase will be reflected in the second interim
dividend announced with our half year results.
Corporate governance
Y our company has been at the forefront when it comes to 
implementing best practice in corporate governance and financial 
matters. Its implementation last year of the new accounting standard
FRS19 and the full implementation of FRS17 well in advance of this being
required, is an indication of an open and transparent culture.This year in
the UK we had the recommendations from the Higgs and Smith reviews
that were subsequently incorporated in a modified form into a new
Combined Code. BOC contributed fully to the consultation phase of the
Higgs review and I believe the end result strengthens corporate
governance in an effective way.Y our company is substantially complying
with the revised Combined Code this year, ahead of it being required.
Corporate social responsibility
BOC consistently takes an ethical view of its responsibilities in pursuing
profitable business. Leadership comes from T ony Isaac and the senior
management team. BOC is also a very practical organisation, preferring 
to implement, test and refine what it does before making claims in the
wider world.This year BOC developed and launched its Code of
Conduct.There were many existing policies, but the Code of Conduct
process brought these into one programme together with new and
amended policies.The code energised the whole of the company during
its development and roll out.
04 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
“Our strategy is to 
deliver superior returns”
Chairman’s statement It is more important to be socially responsible than to seek out awards 
for social responsibility. It happens that others have given recognition to
BOC’s achievements in this area. For instance, in the UK last year BOC’s
environmental performance was ranked by Business in the Environment 
in the top 25 per cent of FTSE companies participating in its survey; the
investment community voting in Investor Relations magazine ranked BOC
in the top five of FTSE100 companies for the best practice of corporate
responsibility; and Gist, our logistics business, won the Motor Transport
magazine’s environmental award. In South Africa,Afrox’s community
involvement programme is used by the United Nations as a global case
study of how an employee-driven, sustainable social development
programme should work.
Board of directors
This year I was delighted to welcome John Bevan and Andrew Bonfield 
to your board. John is chief executive of Process Gas Solutions and,
being an Australian, adds yet another nationality to what is an already 
very diverse board.Andrew brings his financial experience and knowledge 
of international business to our discussions. I would also like to
congratulate two of my board colleagues who have been honoured 
this year: Sir Christopher O’Donnell received his knighthood in the
Queen’s birthday honours list while Dr ‘Raj’ Rajagopal was awarded 
the Sir Eric Mensforth International Manufacturing Gold Medal by 
the Institution of Electrical Engineers and subsequently was elected a 
Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
During the year Göran Lundberg and Dick Grant stepped down
from the board.We wish them both well for the future. Göran was
replaced by Sir Christopher as senior independent director and by 
Julie Baddeley as chairman of the remuneration committee.
Thank you
The board would like to thank all BOC’s people around the world for
their efforts in what have been testing economic conditions.We would
also like to thank all BOC’s customers, with whom we seek a mutually
prosperous future. By recruiting, training and retaining the best employees
we will continue to deliver high standards of service to our customers.
This is the basis of BOC’s strength and will be the means by which we will
deliver the returns expected by you, our shareholders. I thank you for your
continued support.
Rob Margetts Chairman
05 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
60
40
20
0
-40
-20
Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0
T otal shareholder return 
since 1 October 2000
Percentage
Total shareholder return 
October 2000 – October 2003
BOC relative to FTSE100 compared 
with major gases companies relative 
to respective local indices
Percentage
BOC relative to FTSE100
Other gases companies
BOC
FTSE100
