 Summary
• Revenue and other income grew 
by £2.209 million to £3.244 million.
• Southern Lights Biomaterials acquisition 
realised value and significant growth.
• ChondroMimetic asset acquisition enhanced 
our regenerative medicine pipeline.
• FY 2017 strategic initiatives established 
for improved execution and growth.
May I welcome you to the results for the year ended 31 March 2016 
for Collagen Solutions and convey my own excitement about the 
future of our Company.
Addressing our opportunity
Having joined the Company in November 2015 and having assumed 
the CEO role in May 2016, I believe we have a strong foundation of 
people, customers, technology and innovation upon which we can 
execute our strategy to achieve a leading position in the biomaterials 
and regenerative medicine market. 
We address a current opportunity in excess of $1.5 billion for collagen 
and tissue biomaterials applications. Our focused strategy is to 
strengthen and grow our core biomaterials supply and manufacturing 
business, and develop finished devices through both internal 
development and acquired technologies that we will commercialise 
via licensing and distribution partnerships.
During the reported financial year, the Company continued to make 
good progress towards achieving this strategy. We strengthened and 
grew our core biomaterials business, including a full year of contribution 
from our acquired Southern Lights Biomaterials business. We executed 
new customer agreements and late in the year established a commercial 
organisation focused on core business growth. We also completed 
the acquisition of the ChondroMimetic assets from Orthomimetics 
Limited to establish a basis for our finished devices platform. 
Revenue growth
During the reported financial year ended 31 March 2016, the Company 
added scale from a broad base of customers in North America 
and Asia.
Revenue from North America grew by £1.262 million to £1.808 million, 
an increase of 231%, driven by a full year of contribution from the 
acquisition of Southern Lights Biomaterials as well as our organic 
growth from a broad base of existing customers. Revenue from Asia 
grew by £0.889 million to £1.175 million, an increase of 311%, our 
fastest-growing region, driven by customer growth from the existing 
Southern Lights Biomaterials base. Revenue from European customers 
was flat at £0.147 million from a small customer base; however, this 
region now has a dedicated commercial manager and we expect 
growth in customer base and sales during the coming year.
View our Financial Review Page 18
“ We have a strong foundation upon which to execute 
our strategy to achieve a leading position in the 
biomaterials and regenerative medicine market.”
 Jamal Rushdy, Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s statement
STRATEGIC REPORT
6 Collagen Solutions plc Annual report and accounts 2016 Within our core biomaterials business, our mix of activities was 
approximately 61% contract manufacturing, 31% materials supply and 
8% development and other services. This is relatively consistent with 
the prior year’s mix of 56% contract manufacturing, 30% materials and 
14% services with a shift of service revenue to contract manufacturing 
as some of our customer development agreements matured into 
contract manufacturing. 
Our customer base includes a broad cross-section of the market in 
terms of end-user segments, geographies and customer sizes. Our 
opportunity is to penetrate deeper into these geographic markets 
with a focus on commercial execution to expand this customer base 
with improvements in sales operations and expansion of marketing, 
the direct sales team and channel partners. 
Innovation and product development
Since its founding, Collagen Solutions has had a commitment to 
innovation within regenerative biomaterials, with over 50% of the 
current employee base holding advanced scientific degrees. The 
R&D teams are chartered to support and develop our core biomaterials 
business as well as develop our intellectual property through internal 
development, partnering, and licensing and acquisitions. 
In September 2015, we acquired the assets and an exclusive worldwide 
licence for the associated intellectual property of the ChondroMimetic 
family of pipeline products from Orthomimetics Limited and Cambridge 
Enterprise Limited, representing a regenerative orthopaedics platform 
for cartilage, bone, meniscus, tendon and ligament surgery. The first lead 
product is ChondroMimetic, a regenerative scaffold intended for the 
repair of small defects in the cartilage of the knee, which had a successful 
pilot clinical study in Europe in 2010. We believe we have a unique 
opportunity to relaunch ChondroMimetic with the advantage of 
over six years of evidence from these early patients.
In addition, we are investing in internally developed technology for 
additional market access finished devices we can commercialise with 
partners, as well as basic research partnerships to advance regenerative 
medicine technology based on our biomaterials. For example, in 
March 2015 we announced a research collaboration with the Blond 
McIndoe Research Foundation to investigate the use of primary human 
skin cells used in formulation with Collagen Solutions’ products, with 
a view to developing more effective treatments for burns, thereby 
reducing the burden and limitation of skin grafting. 
During the reported financial year, we increased our R&D revenue 
expenditure by £0.207 million to £0.367 million, inclusive of the 
combined R&D spend of legacy Southern Lights Biomaterials. In 
addition, we spent £0.267 million in R&D-related capital expenditure to 
enhance our capabilities. The Group now has a global R&D organisation 
of eight scientific and engineering team members, led by our founder 
and Chief Scientific Officer, Dr Stewart White. We will continue to invest 
in R&D with the team’s focus on supporting the core biomaterials 
business, developing new finished devices for commercialisation, 
and continuing to develop innovative regenerative medicine technologies.
Strategic initiatives
In January our new combined leadership team from the UK, the USA 
and New Zealand met for our annual strategic planning session in order 
to set the vision, mission, goals and specific strategic initiatives for the 
Company in the current financial year in order to create long-term value.
The strategic platform for the growth and development of the 
Company is now built upon four interconnected pillars: customers, 
employees, products and capabilities and growth. Within each pillar 
we are focused on executing detailed strategic initiatives. These 
form the basis of our overall strategy: 
Customers: To improve our customer engagement and market 
share, we are investing in our sales teams, product development 
and processes. We have set goals to hire and on-board a motivated 
and responsive direct sales team of commercial managers focused 
on North America, Asia, and Europe, in addition to selected channel 
partners, such as our recent announcements about a joint venture 
in China and distribution arrangements with Sigma, part of Merck KGaA, 
and BBI Solutions. We are developing advanced training for this 
sales team to ensure a high level of engagement with our customers 
to better understand their needs and offer solutions in a more 
comprehensive and timely manner. We are also fully implementing a 
sales opportunity management process based on best practices to 
ensure we have a sufficient quality pipeline of business efficiently 
moving through the sales funnel process.
Employees: Within our employee base, over 85% of the organisation 
has direct experience working in our customers’ markets in either 
research organisations or medical device companies. Our goal is to 
foster a culture of responsiveness and engagement reflecting our 
global team’s talents in biomaterials science and production, and 
market knowledge aligned towards achieving our strategic goals. 
To further this aim we are implementing comprehensive talent 
review, development and reward processes this fiscal year.
Products and capabilities: We have multiple innovation and 
operational excellence initiatives to improve both near-term 
core business with OEM and manufacturing processes, as well as 
improving our R&D pipeline prioritisation and execution in order 
to ensure a consistent future flow of new finished device products.
Growth: We are very encouraged by the results of our January Voice 
of the Customer independent survey. Our current and potential 
customers gave us clear feedback that we offer a compelling value 
proposition but our complete range of products, services and 
capabilities needs to be articulated more fully to the wider market. 
As such, we are making investments in marketing in the current year, 
including a comprehensive new brand communications strategy and 
new website that was recently launched.
Conclusion
The financial year ended 31 March 2016 was transformational 
for the Company in terms of a step change in scale, product and 
technology breadth, and organisational development. We have a 
strong foundation as we continue to make progress in the current 
financial year, with a clear strategy, specific strategic initiatives, an 
engaged management team and a shared vision: to become the 
industry’s first choice for regenerative biomaterials.
Jamal Rushdy
Chief Executive Officer
8 July 2016
7 Annual report and accounts 2016 Collagen Solutions plc
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
