 2004 was a good year for your company.BOC has a
consistent strategy that has been well implemented – 
a testament to all BOC’s management and staff.
Y our board owns and reviews this strategy.We follow a well-defined annual
process that allows all members of the board to examine every aspect of
the Group’s progress and opportunities. Much can be learnt by questioning
and testing in the formal environment of the boardroom, but there is 
no substitute for seeing the strategy at work in the real world, with
customers, business partners and staff. For that reason we hold two board
meetings each year outside our Windlesham headquarters.We went to
China in the autumn of 2003 and saw the impressive work underway in 
the Shanghai and Nanjing areas to develop world-scale petrochemical
complexes; these are areas where BOC has established an important
presence.We also spent a day with the management team of our logistics
business, Gist. For our first meeting of the 2005 financial year we visited
South Africa and saw the progressive economic and social developments 
to which our Afrox subsidiary is making a major contribution. Over the 
next 12 months we will also visit Poland and the US.
An important element of the strategy over recent years has been 
to reshape our portfolio of businesses to enhance future growth and
profitability.We will continue to examine opportunities as and when 
they arise.
Returns to our shareholders
In 2004 BOC paid a first interim dividend of 15.5p per share in February
2004 and a second interim dividend of 24.5p per share in August, making a
total of 40p for the year as a whole, an increase of 2.6 per cent on 2003.
Having held the first interim dividend at 15.5p for several years, while
growing the second interim dividend, we have reached our aim of a 40:60
ratio between the two interim dividends. As a result your board has
decided to raise the first interim dividend by 2.6 per cent to 15.9p to be
paid on 1 February 2005. In 2004 our dividends were covered 1.58 times
by adjusted earnings and we look to build our dividend cover towards two-
times over the medium term.We therefore aim to grow the dividend
progressively, albeit at a lower rate than earnings per share growth.
Again this year, as in the two previous years, I include graphs 
comparing BOC’s total shareholder returns since 2000 with all FTSE100
companies and with its main gases competitors.The message remains 
the same.We have performed well compared with other UK companies
but a gap requires to be bridged with our competitors.
04 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
60
40
20
0
–40
–20
100
80
60
40
20
0
T otal shareholder return 
since 1 October 2000
Percentage
Total shareholder return 
October 2000 – October 2004
BOC relative to FTSE100 compared 
with major gases companies relative 
to respective local indices
Percentage
BOC relative to FTSE100
Other gases companies
BOC
FTSE100
Oct-00 Oct-01 Oct-02 Oct-03 Oct-04
“BUILDING FOR
GRO WTH AND
PROFIT ABILITY”
CHAIRMAN’S 
ST A TEMENT Corporate Governance
BOC complies with the existing Combined Code on Corporate
Governance and I reported last year that we already substantially complied
with the revisions to the code announced in 2003, even though we need
not have done so until 2005.This is part of our continuing commitment 
to the highest standards of governance and integrity.Throughout BOC
there is a strong commitment to the principles of ACTS – accountability,
collaboration, transparency and stretch.These principles, supported by a
well established Code of Conduct, provide strong safeguards at all levels 
of the organisation.
Corporate responsibility
Y our company is well aware that it is judged not only by its financial success
but also by how this financial success is achieved. How well we manage
social, environmental and ethical (SEE) risks is important to the long-term
health of our business. For the first time this year BOC participated in the
independent survey of companies’ corporate responsibility performance
conducted by the UK’s Business in the Community. 500 companies 
were invited to participate, 139 did so, including 56 from the FTSE100.
BOC was ranked 25th with an aggregate score of well over 90 per cent.
This was a good result and confirmed our belief that we are performing
well against these measures. More recently, we have surveyed all our
business units to gain a thorough understanding of how they see our 
SEE risks and how we are managing them.This will form the basis of 
our next series of initiatives.
A US subsidiary of The BOC Group, along with other companies in
the welding products industry, has been the subject of injury claims based
on allegations that manganese in welding fumes causes Parkinson’s disease
or symptoms similar to Parkinson’s disease.We are not aware of any
credible scientific evidence linking manganese in welding fumes to
neurological damage under typical welding conditions.
Board of directors
We welcomed three new non-executive directors to our board this year.
Guy Dawson joined in March. He was until 2003 chairman of European
investment banking at Merrill Lynch having previously been with Morgan
Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.Anne Quinn and Iain Napier were appointed
in May.Anne is group vice president of BP’s gas, power and renewables
business stream. Iain is chief executive of T aylor Woodrow and brings
previous experience of the brewing industry. Fabiola Arredondo and
Roberto Mendoza resigned from the board during the year, each because
of increasing demands on their time from their other commitments.
Both Fabiola and Roberto have made valuable contributions to BOC 
for which I thank them.
05 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Chairman’s statement
In May I announced that T ony Isaac had accepted the board’s invitation 
to continue as your chief executive until the Annual General Meeting 
in January 2007.We are very pleased that he will continue to provide
leadership in the successful execution of our strategy.
My thanks always go first to BOC’s employees around the world 
as they make your company what it is. It is our talented and dedicated
people that make the difference in a competitive market. I thank our
customers for choosing BOC. I thank all those who partner, supply and
contribute to BOC wherever we do business. Finally, I thank you our
shareholders for your continuing support.
Rob Margetts Chairman
