 BOC performed strongly in 2004 in a generally favourable
economic environment.Each quarter we reported adjusted
operating profit and earnings significantly ahead of the
equivalent period in 2003.Our two gases lines of business,
Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products,
saw mostly buoyant trading conditions although the
strength of the rand restrained industrial activity in South
Africa.Semiconductor manufacturers increased their
investment this year after an extended period of reduced
activity and this benefited BOC Edwards.As a result 
we reported adjusted operating profit for the year of 
£576.9 million,up 15 per cent,on turnover up nine per cent
at £4,599.3 million.Adjusted profit before tax rose 
20 per cent.
I explained last year that our adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items
that would otherwise create distortions.Also our year-on-year comparisons
are at constant currency, shorn of the effects of converting local profits into
sterling.This way we show clearly how we performed in the competitive
markets of the 50 or so countries where we operate.When I describe 
our business performance below I will do so on this basis. Our statutory
results include exceptional items and reflect currency movements when
comparing performance with last year. On this basis turnover increased 
by six per cent, operating profit by 28 per cent and profit before tax by 
17 per cent.
Successful businesses
Process Gas Solutions delivered a nine per cent increase in turnover and
raised adjusted operating profit by ten per cent.At the start of the year in
China we and our joint venture partners announced that we would invest
over US$100 million in three schemes at T aiyuan, Suzhou and in the Pearl
River region. In June 2004 we announced the setting up of a joint venture
with Sinopec Shanghai Petrochemical Company Ltd (SPC).This is the
second joint venture with a subsidiary of Sinopec, China’s leading
petrochemical company, following our agreement in 2002 with Sinopec
Yangzi Petrochemical Corporation.This second joint venture intends to
invest in some 3,000 tonnes a day of industrial gas production assets
currently owned by SPC before embarking on building a new world-scale
air separation unit.This flow of new orders means that we will double our
production capacity in China by the end of 2005, with a corresponding
increase in turnover. Elsewhere we were successful in winning key hydrogen
orders for BP and Sunoco refineries in the US, in acquiring Duke Energy’s
30 per cent ownership interest in Compañía de Nitrógeno de Cantarell,
the joint venture company that owns the world’s largest nitrogen complex
in Mexico, and in winning the order with our joint venture partners for 
the largest air separation unit in Thailand.As well as supplying hydrogen 
for today’s applications we continue to invest for the opportunities
predicted for hydrogen energy in the decades to come.
Industrial and Special Products grew both turnover and adjusted
operating profit by three per cent and ten per cent respectively. 2004 
was the first full year of contributions from two recent acquisitions,
namely Praxair’s Polish gases business and Air Products’ packaged gas
business in Canada.
06 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
“SIGNIFICANTL Y
IMPROVED
PERFORMANCE 
OVER 2003” BOC Edwards saw the long-awaited upturn in investment by the
semiconductor industry as well as increased demand from growing
markets, notably flat panel displays in Asia.The result was a 27 per cent 
rise in turnover and a 181 per cent increase in adjusted operating profit.
Gist, our logistics business, did well to maintain turnover following 
the loss last year of Marks & Spencer’s general merchandise business.
Adjusted operating profit fell by 14 per cent, but in 2003 we included a 
£4.1 million gain resulting from the M&S contract termination; without 
this one-off payment adjusted operating profit would have been flat 
year on year.
Afrox hospitals continued to grow and perform well, turnover rising 
by nine per cent and adjusted operating profit by 16 per cent.
In November 2003 we announced that African Oxygen Limited 
had agreed to sell its majority shareholding in Afrox Healthcare Limited 
to a consortium led by two major black economic empowerment
investors.We then announced in January 2004 our intention to sell our US
packaged gas business, part of our north American Industrial and Special
Products unit, to Airgas for up to US$200 million.We completed the US
disposal successfully in July this year while the Afrox Healthcare sale remains 
subject to final clearance by the competition authorities in South Africa.
The motives for these two disposals were very different. In Afrox
Healthcare we have a business in which we have invested successfully 
over recent years.The medium to long-term future for private healthcare 
is uncertain in South Africa and we had the opportunity to sell a highly
successful business and let it develop further under new black economic
empowerment ownership. Our US packaged gas business also received
much attention and investment over the years, but it never fulfilled its
promise. Its sale and the successful transfer of over 1,000 of our employees
to the new owner is a good outcome.We retain a large presence in 
the US, with substantial and successful businesses that will benefit from
increased management focus and a reduced overhead cost base.
The two significant joint ventures we have established in the last 
two years – Linde BOC Process Plants and Japan Air Gases – continue 
to perform well.
Cash
Operating cash flow was £758.5 million, up some eight per cent on last
year, due to improved operating profit and better management of working
capital. In addition, proceeds from disposals and lower levels of capital
expenditure resulted in a decline in our net borrowings for the sixth
successive quarter, ending the year down £405.7 million at £962.4 million.
This was after paying a further £64 million into the main UK pensions
scheme, an increase of £28 million over last year.
07 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2004
Managing to the highest standards
We continue to use our global structure to transfer best operating and
commercial practice, to offer the highest standards of service to all our
customers, and to meet the needs of our key customers wherever they 
do business in the world. Our operating procedures are supported by
global programmes such as our Code of Conduct and we work hard to 
tap the full potential of our diverse and talented workforce.
It is important that we manage all our business risks, not just the
financial ones. Operating as we do in a hazardous industry, everyone 
must pay the greatest attention to safety, whether it be the safety of 
fellow employees, of our customers and suppliers or indeed of those 
in the communities where we live and work.We concentrate on 
making safety second nature for all our employees. By managing these 
non-financial risks we protect our business and the reputation of BOC.
There has been one change this year to the executive management
team. Greg Sedgwick returned to his native Australia to take up an
appointment as chief executive of a listed building products company;
I wish him well in his future career. Mark Nichols, who had been based 
in Singapore, has succeeded Greg as Group director for business
development. BOC is fortunate in having good people at all levels of the
organisation and we place great emphasis on recruiting, developing and
retaining the best people wherever we find them in the world.We have 
a diverse workforce and I take a personal interest in ensuring that this
diversity is reflected increasingly at all levels.
I thank all employees of BOC for their hard work and for the
contribution they have made to a successful year. Keeping our customers
satisfied is more important than ever and we strive to deliver the same 
high standard of service wherever our customers choose to do business
with us.We work hard to deliver the financial returns our shareholders
expect.We are also well aware of the wider responsibilities we have to 
the economic and social life of the countries where we operate.All of 
this depends on the people of BOC and they respond by delivering 
high performance day by day.
Tony Isaac Chief executive
Chief executive’s review
