 2005 was a year of underlying strong
performance punctuated by events that
challenged and brought out the best in 
BOC and its people.We continue to see an
accelerating rise in energy prices, the move of
manufacturing activity from higher- to lower-
cost economies and relatively slow growth in
an historical context for the semiconductor
industry . Faced with these long-term trends
we have responded by investing for growth
while concentrating on energy efficiency ,
cost containment and high levels of 
customer service.
In the year , the biggest structural change in the Group was the
reduction in our ownership of Afrox hospitals. Elsewhere, among 
the highlights, we continued our penetration of the north American
refinery market with a string of new hydrogen orders, maintained the
pace of our developments in China, and saw BOC Edwards enter
into an important customer relationship in Korea. In contrast, events
such as the Asian tsunami, the London bombings, hurricane Katrina
and most recently the Pakistan earthquake saw BOC businesses
helping where they could, notably with medical gases, and BOC
people giving freely of their time and money .
Against this background BOC produced good results, with turnover
similar to last year at £4,605 million, adjusted operating profit down
three per cent to £564.2 million, adjusted profit before tax down one
per cent at £505.7 million and record adjusted earnings per share of
67.5p. Adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items.Y ear-on-year
comparisons at constant currency show the performance of our
businesses in the markets where they operate without any distortions
from changes in the sterling exchange rate. Our statutory results
include exceptional items and reflect currency movements and on this
basis turnover was similar to last year with operating profit down by
three per cent and profit before tax up by 44 per cent.
Our two gases lines of business, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial
and Special Products, contribute over 80 per cent of Group operating
profit and both of them made good progress. Process Gas Solutions
continues to increase the percentage of its business that comes from
long-term tonnage schemes, with the emphasis recently on winning
hydrogen contracts and building on our strong position in Asia, and
particularly in China.There has been a steady flow of new orders 
with some £500 million of new plant due to enter service over the
next couple of years. Our Process Systems team works closely with
customers to identify and deliver solutions for their industrial gases
needs.This approach has seen us win a disproportionate share of 
the new business available. In China our success has been founded 
on our willingness to enter joint ventures with our key customers,
enabling us to share the risks and rewards of China’s industrial growth.
Our joint venture plant building operation, Linde BOC Process Plants,
gives us reliable and cost-effective plant to fulfil our customers’ needs.
This year Process Gas Solutions grew turnover by 16 per cent and
adjusted operating profit by nine per cent.
Chief executive’s review
06 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Industrial and Special Products continues to extract value from its
extensive distribution network and its high standards of product
stewardship.The core industrial business continues to evolve as
manufacturing processes change.We now offer a wider range of
products and services to our industrial customers.We have
developed sizeable businesses based on liquefied petroleum gas
(LPG) and in several of our markets we are taking advantage of similar
opportunities for safety products. Our medical business, which serves
hospitals and delivers oxygen therapy to patients in their homes, is
continuing to grow, particularly in Asia.The special products portfolio
is also developing well, serving growth markets with products such 
as helium, packaged chemicals, refrigerants and propellants. Industrial
and Special Products saw turnover decline by four per cent following
the sale of the US packaged gas business last year , while adjusted
operating profit rose by six per cent as profitability improved in 
the US.
BOC Edwards’ core semiconductor market remained broadly stable
without returning to the activity levels seen last year . Despite this,
BOC Edwards continued to improve its market position and
embarked on a restructuring programme to achieve cost savings.
It saw an increase in turnover of two per cent with adjusted operating
profit down 21 per cent.
Gist saw some organic growth from new and existing customers
and towards the end of the year it expanded into Europe 
with the acquisition of  Van Dongen, a temperature-controlled
transport business operating in a number of countries.
In November 2005 it extended until 2011 its contract to
manage the distribution of Marks & Spencer’s chilled and
ambient food.This provides long-term security for a significant
portion of Gist’s business. Gist’s turnover for the year 
rose eight per cent while adjusted operating profit fell by 
two per cent, impacted by higher pension and compliance costs.
In March we disposed of most of our shareholding in Afrox
Healthcare Limited to a consortium led by two major black
empowerment investors. Our African Oxygen Limited subsidiary
retains a 20 per cent interest in the business.We received the disposal
proceeds in March.Afrox Healthcare was a large employer and its
disposal has reduced the number of Group employees by over
10,000.The disposal also had the effect of reducing the Group’s
earnings per share by approximately one penny this year and an
expected further one penny in 2006.
We had another good year for cash generation, helped by the Afrox
Healthcare disposal.With our strong balance sheet we are in a good
position to fund our growth projects, notably the ones already won by
Process Gas Solutions and those still in the pipeline.
Safety remains our number one priority . It is unacceptable that anyone
is hurt in the course of our business and we continue to emphasise
that safety must be 100 per cent of our behaviour , 100 per cent 
of the time.At the start of this report we set out our objectives as a
Group.We intend to outperform our competitors and to do this we
must be the employer of choice for talented people.We are working
hard on all aspects of our business to achieve these objectives.
Three members of the executive management board resigned 
this year . René Médori became group finance director for Anglo
American plc while John Walsh and Rob Lourey returned with their
families to new jobs in their home countries of the United States 
and Australia respectively . I wish all of them success in their new
careers and thank them for their contributions to BOC. Kent Masters
was appointed chief executive, Industrial and Special Products, in
March and James Cullens joined the executive management board in
April as Group human resources director .Alan Ferguson joined us as
Group finance director in September from Inchcape plc.
I thank our employees for their hard work over the past year and for
their continued emphasis on high standards of customer service.
I thank our customers, our shareholders, our suppliers and those with
whom we work on a daily basis. BOC contributes to the economic
life of many countries around the world and I thank you all for helping
us to do so.
T ony Isaac
Chief executive
Chief executive’s review 07
Strong underlying
performance
