 04 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
Y our board has again fully reviewed and
approved BOC’s strategy , which is being
effectively implemented by T ony Isaac and his
management team.The strategy has seen
BOC confirm its leading position in Asia,
develop a strong base in China and invest
strongly in other growth markets. It has seen 
a continuing commitment to safety and to
improve the efficiency and environmental
performance of our operations. It has 
seen the divestment of underperforming 
businesses allied to a well implemented
acquisition strategy .
Rewarding our shareholders
In 2005 BOC raised its first interim dividend to 15.9p. Combined 
with the second interim dividend of 25.3p, this represents an increase
of three per cent on the previous year as we continue to build 
our dividend cover towards two-times over the medium term.
Y our board has decided to raise the first interim dividend to be 
paid on 1 February 2006 by 2.5 per cent to 16.3p.
I have updated the graphs I have shown here every year since 2001.
They show BOC’s total shareholder return since October 2000
compared with the FTSE100 and our major gases competitors.
We have continued to outperform the FTSE100. Industrial gases
companies have proved to be a rewarding investment over recent
years and in the last year or so we have matched our competitors’
performance, although a gap remains from earlier years. In his 
review,T ony Isaac will explain in more detail how we have 
progressed this year .
Corporate Governance
This year your company has completed its work to comply with 
one new set of requirements, the Combined Code on Corporate
Governance, and has made good progress on two others, namely
changing over to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS)
and meeting the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The quarterly results to be announced in February 2006 will be 
the first in accordance with IFRS.We estimate that meeting the
requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley cost your company some 
£10 million this year .We are likely to spend the same next year 
before the costs reduce somewhat. BOC has to comply with these
provisions because we are registered in the US, but being a complex
and diverse business working globally means that the cost of such
compliance is very high.
Next year we will, in common with all UK companies, publish an
operating and financial review (OFR) as part of our annual report.
The intention of the OFR is to help you, our shareholders, assess our
strategies and the likelihood of their success.
External checks and reporting requirements may help but I believe
the best assurance for shareholders is to ensure high standards of
integrity and transparency throughout the organisation, overseen by 
a strong and independent group of non-executive directors. BOC 
has both of these. It has a strong and well-implemented Code of
Chairman’s statement
Implementing our
strategy effectively Chairman’s statement 05
Conduct and a management team committed to the principles of
accountability , collaboration, transparency and stretch, known in 
BOC as ACTS.
Y our board regularly reviews the management of our social,
environmental and ethical risks.These have now been integrated into
the company’s overall risk management programme. Each year our
performance is judged against criteria set by the UK’s Business in the
Community (BiTC).T o be as transparent as possible we publish on
our website, boc.com, both our comprehensive submission to BiTC
and its independent assessment of our performance.
An important feature of BOC’s corporate responsibility programme
is to enable people at all levels of the organisation to become involved
and support things that matter to them. Our joint giving scheme is an
example.This year countries around the Indian Ocean suffered from
the appalling effects of the tsunami. Our businesses in the countries
affected responded immediately with medical oxygen and with 
other practical help. BOC extended its joint giving scheme to match
two-to-one our employees’ donations to the relief effort for both the
tsunami and hurricane Katrina. BOC again responded when the
Pakistan earthquake struck in October 2005. In total the community
of BOC gave over £570,000 to the tsunami appeal and we await the
final totals for hurricane Katrina and the Pakistan earthquake.
One of our US subsidiaries, along with other companies in the
welding products industry , has been the subject of allegations that
manganese in welding fumes causes Parkinson’s disease or symptoms
similar to Parkinson’s.Again this year there were no adverse jury
verdicts; the only adverse jury verdict was in 2003 and this is the
subject of appeal in the Illinois court system.
Board of Directors
We appointed two new executive directors this year: Kent Masters,
chief executive for Industrial and Special Products, joined the board 
in March, replacing John Walsh who resigned to return to his native
United States; and Alan Ferguson joined in September as Group
finance director in place of René Médori who resigned to take up a
similar role at Anglo American. Rebecca McDonald was appointed 
as a non-executive director in July . Rebecca is president, gas and
power , for BHP Billiton. During the year two non-executive directors
resigned: Iain Napier , following his appointment as deputy chairman of
Imperial T obacco, and Julie Baddeley because of increasing demands
on her time. John Walsh and René Médori each served BOC for
some 20 years, Iain Napier and Julie Baddeley for a somewhat shorter
time, and I would like to thank them all for their contributions.
Every year we review the performance of the board and each
individual director . In alternate years, which included 2005, we 
conduct these reviews with external facilitation.They confirmed that
each director contributes effectively and is committed to his or her
role at BOC.
Thanks
BOC’s 30,000 people around the world provide products and
services that are essential to everyday life. I thank them for their
dedication and professionalism. I thank the customers they serve for
entrusting their business to BOC. I thank all those with whom we
work and in the communities where we operate for their support.
And I thank you, our shareholders, for your continuing support.
Rob Margetts
Chairman
T otal shareholder return
October 2000 – October 2005
BOC relative to FTSE100 compared 
with major gases companies
relative to respective local indices
Percentage
120
80
100
60
40
20
0 BOC relative 
to FTSE100
Other gases  
companies
T otal shareholder return
since 1 October 2000
Percentage
90
60
30
0
-30
Oct-00 Oct-05 Oct-04 Oct-03 Oct-02 Oct-01
BOC
FTSE100
