 chief executive’s review
compassfinance group plc 5
Summary performance
I am pleased to report that 2004 has been a very exciting year for Compass Finance Group
plc, including flotation on AIM in March, a substantial increase in staff numbers and a 59%
increase in pro-forma revenue from £8.26m in 2003 to £13.16m in 2004. 
The statutory results generated £8.57m of sales revenue with the resultant profit before tax
of £1.52m. Profit after tax was £977,000. I am particularly pleased that these excellent results
have allowed the Board to announce a maiden final dividend of 0.15p per share, following
which £877,000 of retained earnings will be transferred to reserves.
We have made significant progress in building a strong and experienced management team
who I am confident can deliver the ambitious targets we have set ourselves for the coming
year. Our investment in people has enabled us to continue to deliver market leading sales
conversion rates, excellent customer service and a speedy and efficient completions process.
We have also strengthened the infrastructure of the business through continued investment
in state of the art IT solutions and systems.
All our business sectors experienced revenue growth in the year to 30th September 2004.
Sales Mix
Mortgage/re-mortgage
Our revenue from mortgage and re-mortgage broking activities grew £2.5m to £5.1m and
now stands at 39% of total revenue compared with 34% in 2003. We plan to develop this
division further and expand into areas of mortgage broking where we have limited or no
presence.
Secured loans
Revenue from our second charge broking grew £2.7m to £7.4m. It is currently 57% of our
business compared to 59% in 2003. We anticipate further strong revenue growth from the
secured loans division during 2005.
Other sales
The balance of revenue comprised commissions from arranging unsecured loans, insurance
sales and other activities. 6 compassfinance group plc
New initiatives
We continue to generate a substantial amount of business from our expanding client base, a
testament to the high quality service these customers have received in the past. We plan to
offer a wider range of products and services to these clients during 2005 and we are also
developing our presence in the business to business and affinity sectors.
We are scheduled to relocate to larger offices during 2005 and this should offer us a variety
of opportunities to streamline systems and improve efficiencies further.
Financial Services Authority authorisation
On 17 September 2004 we received our authorisation from the Financial Services Authority
(FSA) to conduct mortgage and general insurance business following legislative changes on
31 October 2004. This legislation should further complement our business as increased
emphasis is placed on advice and a higher level of personal attention to customer needs.
Corporate governance
We are committed to good corporate governance with our plc Board comprising 3 executive
and 2 non-executive directors, meeting monthly to discuss strategy, direction and future
development of the Company. We have established Audit and Remuneration Committees
which consist of the non-executive directors.
Prospects
Compass Finance Group plc is in a strong financial position and well placed to continue to
grow. The Group’s penetration into its chosen markets remains minimal and with the UK
outstanding consumer debt now bordering £1trillion, organic growth remains the core
strategy, although acquisitions will be considered where appropriate. The Group is focused
on delivering strong earnings growth during 2005 and developing a progressive dividend
policy.
Overall I am confident that we can continue the great success story that Compass has
become since its formation and look forward to the new financial year with confidence. 
In conclusion, I must thank all my colleagues for the hard work and dedication they have
contributed during the year.
Christopher Smith
Chief Executive Officer
7 December 2004
