 Connect Group PLC
14
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Group Chief Executive’s review
Ten years of delivery
Our results this year  
are a continuation of  
the progress we have 
made since 2006.
Group overview
For over ten years we have built on our 
heritage in news wholesaling to become 
a leading specialist distributor, delivering 
growth and strong, sustainable returns to 
shareholders, and offering satisfying careers 
to our staff. As we start our second decade 
we are well placed to accelerate this progress 
and take full advantage of the skills and 
capabilities of our people.
Despite challenging conditions in some of 
our markets, overall Adjusted profit before tax 
has increased in line with our expectations, 
underpinned by operational progress in all 
divisions. Continued strong cash generation 
supports our plans for further investment in 
opportunities that help to diversify our future 
profit streams.
The Group also continues to create value 
and deliver strong returns to shareholders. 
Adjusted profit before tax is £60.7m, up 
7.4% (FY15: £56.5m). Statutory profit before 
tax is up 44.5% to £41.9m (FY15:£29.0m). 
Free Cash Flow of £49.6m is up 24.6% 
supporting a proposed full year dividend of 
9.5p, up 3.3%.
While all parts of the Group have made 
important contributions to these results, two 
areas require mention as being particularly 
important. In our first full year of ownership, 
the Parcel Freight division has continued to 
reinforce its growth and leadership in the 
market for business-to-business freight. 
Meanwhile, Smiths News, still the largest 
business in the Group, has again achieved a 
combination of cost control and resilient 
revenue performance that underpins the 
overall Group’s profit and cash generation. 
The progress of these, our largest two 
businesses, has established a powerful 
dynamic that we expect to increasingly 
generate value for the Group.
Operational progress 
In what has been a challenging year for 
several of the markets in which we operate, 
the Group has continued to perform well, 
maintaining commercial and operational 
progress on our strategy for growth.
The News & Media division delivered a solid 
result, with the performance of Smiths News 
and DMD, supporting continued investment in 
Pass My Parcel, which has strengthened its 
position in what is a growing market with 
significant potential. The performance of 
Smiths News has been driven by a 
combination of continued resilience in 
printed media and the achievement of 
planned operational efficiencies that are 
delivering sustainable long term savings. 
Further contract renewals for Smiths News 
mean that 94% of our publisher revenues at 
current levels are now secured through to at 
least 2019 and over 70% to 2021. DMD, our 
specialist supplier to airlines and travel points, 
grew sales by 9%, resulting from new 
contracts and increased volumes from existing 
UK newspaper and magazine publishers.
Our investment in Pass My Parcel, since 
its launch in October 2014, is testament to 
our belief in the wider potential of the Group’s 
capabilities. The demand for Click & Collect 
services is growing rapidly, driven by 
consumer expectations of online retail 
services; over time we intend to develop 
Pass My Parcel into a significant revenue and 
profit stream. This year, we have expanded 
the service with a convenient paperless 
returns offering in partnership with online 
clothing retailer ASOS, our service capability 
has been proven and awareness of the brand 
is increasing. We have also, in readiness for 
the 2016 Christmas peak trading period, 
expanded the reach of our national network 
by using Tuffnells’ depots to deliver parcels 
in areas outside of the Smiths News territorial 
footprint. Having proven our ability to deliver 
a quality service as judged by consumers, 
the challenge now is to develop broader brand 
awareness and further enhance our pace 
and flexibility in new client implementation. 
In doing so, we can expect to expand our 
range of retail clients and then grow our 
volumes and market share. 
The Parcel Freight division had another 
strong year, growing revenue and profit as 
a result of increases in both volumes and 
prices, supplemented by increasing net new 
customers by 11%. Improved service, driven 
by a rigorous measurement of KPIs, has 
reduced rectification costs and increased 
customer satisfaction, again leading to  Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
15
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
repeat business and the attraction of new 
customers. More broadly, the demand for 
business-to-business freight has remained 
buoyant, despite recent uncertainty in the 
wider economy. The division has also made 
good progress in exploring partnerships with 
other areas of the Group; trials are progressing 
to confirm a number of cost and revenue 
opportunities from collaboration between 
Smiths News and Pass My Parcel operations.
The Education & Care division has 
maintained its performance in what 
have been challenging conditions across 
the education market. Continued growth 
in Early Years and Primary confirms our 
strength in these sectors, and contract wins 
from International sales has helped partially 
to offset the more difficult Secondary 
Education sector. Our performance relative 
to competitors indicates we are winning 
market share, positioning us favourably once 
the market returns to growth. Investment in 
client facing E-Commerce is at the forefront 
of our strategy to win new business and drive 
efficiencies. Over 35% of orders are now 
placed online, reducing our dependency 
on printed catalogues and giving us greater 
opportunity to use tactical pricing 
and promotions.
Finally, the Books division had a difficult year. 
Having stabilised the business in FY15, the 
benefits of progress in Wordery and a good 
recovery in UK Wholesale, have been offset 
by further contraction of the library markets 
and new cost pressures that could not be 
fully mitigated in the period. In the public 
library sector, we were unable to renew 
a number of contracts at commercially 
sustainable rates – this has had an adverse 
impact on revenue in the year. Despite these 
conditions, the business has responded well 
in other areas, with a pleasing improvement 
in operational performance and customer 
service. The continued progress of Wordery 
is a highlight of the year, with sales of £49m 
and growth of 26%. Profit this year was also 
adversely affected by a number of cost base 
issues including increased postage charges 
and the introduction of the National Living 
Wage which had a disproportionate impact 
on the division. Action has been taken to 
help mitigate these impacts and establish 
a stronger platform for a return to growth.
Strategy and future growth
In ten years as a PLC, the Group has evolved 
from a news and magazine wholesaling 
business, to become a leading specialist 
distributor with interests in a range 
of sectors. 
Our operating model varies slightly across the 
divisions, but is united by a common thread of 
adding value to complex supply chains with a 
combination of scale efficiencies and market 
expertise which benefits both suppliers and 
customers. Our commitment to service and 
investment underpins long term commercial 
partnerships, facilitating relatively stable 
revenue streams that allow for the 
development of new and market 
leading initiatives. 
The Group’s success in growth and 
diversification has been driven by three 
clear strategies: 
 – winning new business in our existing 
markets by investing in service 
propositions that deliver tangible value 
to customers and suppliers;
 – broadening the range of our interests and 
reducing reliance on printed media, 
through the acquisition of carefully 
selected targets; and
 – investment to create new revenue 
streams that leverage our skills and 
respond to emerging opportunities 
and new markets.
Looking ahead, we foresee greater 
opportunity to leverage the scale and 
assets of our divisions in ways that 
create efficiencies and new commercial 
opportunities. While each division will 
continue to focus on its particular market, 
we will continue to explore opportunities to 
apply our collective capabilities in ways that 
enhance our service. During the last year, 
Smiths News started making ‘last mile’ 
deliveries on behalf of Tuffnells, helping 
to manage capacity by fulfilling smaller 
deliveries more efficiently than would 
otherwise be possible; meanwhile Tuffnells 
began delivering on behalf of Pass My Parcel, 
expanding our territorial footprint while 
maintaining the cost efficiencies that create 
competitive advantage. There is clear 
opportunity to develop more and similar 
initiatives across the Group.
The result of the UK Referendum in 
June 2016 on leaving the EU (‘Brexit’) 
has affected business confidence and the 
long term impact on the UK economy remains 
uncertain. The vast majority of our revenues 
are derived from trade that takes place 
within the UK, meaning we are potentially 
less affected than businesses with greater 
dependency on EU trade. However, we are 
not immune to any wider impact on the 
economy and the possibility of further 
cuts to Government spending may directly 
impact some of our markets. We will monitor 
developments carefully, but do not currently 
envisage any change to our strategy arising 
from the UK’s decision to leave the EU.
Developing our people 
and culture
The Group’s achievements are founded on the 
skills and determination of our people; their 
passion for success has embraced a level of 
change and challenge that was unforeseeable 
at the start of our journey. Our progress this 
year would not have been possible but for 
their exceptional commitment.
I am determined that we match their efforts 
with investment that develops skills at all 
levels, providing career opportunities for all: 
from young people at the start of their 
careers, through to our most experienced 
senior managers. Maintaining our success 
will require new skills and fresh thinking, but 
there is much we can learn from each other, 
and I am delighted to see an increasing 
number of our people gaining experience 
across the divisions. 
This year, we completed the first staff 
engagement survey to embrace the entire 
Group. The results confirmed the many 
positive aspects of the way we work 
together, highlighting the common values and 
aspirations we share across the divisions. The 
survey also demonstrated there is scope for 
positive change and we are working hard to 
make a difference. Feedback sessions are 
empowering teams to take local actions, 
as well as shaping our understanding of 
improvements we can make to broader 
organisational design.
Health & Safety
Across the Group, we work round the clock to 
manage the movement of goods and vehicles, 
often under extreme time pressure. In these 
conditions, the safety of our workforce must 
be paramount. It was therefore deeply 
distressing that in January 2016 a fatal 
accident took place at Tuffnells’ Brierley Hill 
depot. Our thoughts of course have been with 
the family affected and we have worked hard 
to support our colleagues at the depot too.
Since the incident we have been assisting the 
Health & Safety Executive in its investigation 
and are making every effort to learn from the 
circumstances and root causes of this tragic 
event. I have been reassured by the response 
of our colleagues to this tragic event and their 
collective determination to raise standards still 
further and to ensure our workplaces are as 
safe as they can possibly be.
In the period since acquiring Tuffnells we 
have invested heavily in training, facilities and 
our vehicles in order to reduce hazards and 
accidents. This programme of investment 
will continue as the Board and the Group 
Executive are steadfast that the health and 
safety of people across all parts of the Group 
is a key priority and a matter on which we will 
not compromise.
Ten years of delivery
In reporting on our progress, I am grateful 
for the support and constructive challenge 
of all my colleagues on the Group Executive 
and the Board and would like to thank them 
for the invaluable contribution they have made 
to the business this year. I am also especially 
conscious that it is the people at the frontline 
of our businesses who are the driving force 
behind our ambitions and successes. It is a 
privilege to lead a company that demonstrates 
such talent and determination on a daily basis. 
As we begin our next ten years of delivery, 
I believe we are better placed than ever 
to build on the progress we have 
made together.
Mark Cashmore
Group Chief Executive
