 Connect Group PLC
04
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s statement
Solid performance with good 
progress on operational priorities
I am pleased to confirm 
the Group has delivered 
another solid performance 
across the year, increasing 
profit and developing 
new revenue streams 
for the future. 
In what has been a turbulent period 
for the wider economy and the political 
environment, the Group’s clear focus and 
relatively stable markets have underpinned 
our financial results. More broadly, the 
Group’s strategic investments for growth 
have made good progress as has our 
strategy to leverage the capabilities 
of our portfolio. 
The financial performance of the Group is 
in line with market expectations, delivering 
another year of profit growth. Statutory 
profit before tax of £41.9m is up by 45% 
(FY15:£29.0m), and Statutory earnings per 
share is up 47% to 13.7p. Group Adjusted 
profit before tax of £60.7m is up by 7.4% 
and Adjusted earnings per share is up by 
0.5% to 19.8p. These results benefit from 
strong growth and a full year of trading in 
our Parcel Freight division and a solid 
performance by the News & Media and 
Education & Care divisions, which together 
account for 96% of the Group’s Adjusted 
operating profit.
Looking to the performance of our 
divisions in more detail, News & Media 
returned adjusted operating profit of £42.4m, 
down 3.0% (FY15: £43.7m) including the 
impact of the losses incurred in Pass My 
Parcel. Parcel Freight, incorporating Tuffnells, 
continues to show strong growth, winning 
market share in the business-to-business 
freight sector; Adjusted operating profit of 
£15.0m is up 4.9% on a 52 week basis, after 
increased investment in the business this 
year. Our two largest divisions have also 
begun to explore and develop opportunities 
to collaborate that are expected to deliver 
cost efficiencies. 
This cooperation between Smiths News 
and Tuffnells, providing national coverage for 
parcel distribution, is an important strategic 
step forward. 
Education & Care generated adjusted 
operating profit of £7.8m, flat to the 
previous year (FY15: £7.8m) but representing 
an increase in market share in what has been 
a tough year for education spending, and 
positioning the business well for FY17 when 
we expect market conditions to improve. The 
Books division contributed adjusted operating 
profit of £2.5m, down 3.8% on the previous 
year (FY15:£2.6m) as a consequence of 
extremely difficult conditions in the library 
supply markets and new costs, offsetting an 
improvement in high street sales and the 
continued strong progress in Wordery. 
The Group’s long term strategy is 
clear: we plan to grow and diversify in 
specialist distribution markets that align to 
our core capabilities, delivering competitive 
advantage through scale, efficiencies and 
expertise. In the ten years since becoming 
an independent PLC we have made excellent 
progress, expanding from a single business 
operating in one sector, to become a broader 
based distributor with greater capability and 
range of opportunities. Our divisions are all 
leading players in their sectors, giving us a 
firm foundation from which to develop new 
revenues that will complement our 
core markets.
The Group’s financial position remains 
strong. Free cash flow increased by 25% 
to £49.6m (FY15:£39.8m). The Group’s net 
debt of £141.7m is down by £12m and, at 
1.7x EBITDA, it remains comfortably within 
our banking covenants. Our progressive 
dividend policy aims to ensure a proportion 
of profit growth is passed to shareholders; a 
final dividend of 6.5p, up 3.2%, has therefore 
been proposed, making a full year dividend 
of 9.5p up 3.3% on last year. Strategic report Governance Financials
Connect Group PLC
05
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Every year brings its challenges, and never 
more so in what is a growing and developing 
business. As ever, our people have risen to 
meet them; not only with a daily dedication 
to the needs of our operations, but also to 
the less tangible requirements of business 
integration and cultural change. I would like 
to thank them for the essential role that their 
commitment and positivity plays in our 
success at every level.
The Group is and has always been committed 
to ensuring our staff work at all times across 
all divisions in a safe environment with clear 
processes, regular training and a culture 
of attention to safety in all that we do. It is 
therefore with great sadness that I must 
report a fatality at Tuffnells’ Brierley Hill depot 
in January 2016. We are assisting the Health 
& Safety Executive in its investigation which 
is ongoing. Due to the uncertainties over the 
potential outcome and timing of this process 
and having regard for the circumstances 
surrounding the incident, the Board considers 
it appropriate to make a financial provision 
in relation to this matter (see Note 24 of 
the financial statements). This tragic event 
reinforces our determination to continue 
making improvements in Health & Safety 
across the Group and further investment 
will continue to be made in the next year 
to support this goal.
My colleagues on the Board have also 
provided vital support, enhanced by the 
insight and candour of the Group Executive 
led by Mark Cashmore. Their approach to 
teamwork, underpinned with an intellectual 
rigour, has made my first full year as Chairman 
enjoyable and challenging in equal measure. 
On 1 October 2016, we welcomed David 
Bauernfeind to the Board as Chief Financial 
Officer and I am looking forward to drawing 
on his experience and fresh perspective. 
In the meantime, I would like to thank his 
predecessor, Nick Gresham, for his valuable 
contribution over six years with the Group.
Embarking on our second decade as a 
PLC, the Group is as ambitious as ever. 
Our divisions have clear plans for growth, 
supplemented by a range of opportunities 
for cross-Group collaboration and innovation. 
We will continue to review acquisition 
opportunities especially those that will 
create further efficiencies and leverage 
our infrastructure to create competitive 
advantage. Above all, we remain committed 
to delivering long term value to shareholders.
I am confident of our future success and look 
forward to reporting on progress.
Gary Kennedy
Chairman
