 4 Conviviality Plc
Chairman’s statement
A transformational year
We have focused on creating a long-term sustainable 
business, resilient to market and economic challenges.
Over the past three years, we have focused 
on creating a long-term sustainable business 
resilient to market and economic challenges. 
I am pleased to report that with the 
acquisitions of Matthew Clark and Bibendum 
PLB Group, we have made significant progress 
in achieving that aim and have significantly 
strengthened our organisation, providing 
future growth opportunities for our people, 
our Franchisees, our customers and our 
suppliers. I am delighted to welcome our 
new colleagues from both Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group into our Group.
We have rapidly reconfigured the business 
to successfully integrate our acquisitions and 
added key Executives to lead the delivery of 
our business units and planned synergies. 
In November 2015 we welcomed Sallyann 
Brookes as Group People Director to help 
ensure that we have a common set of guiding 
principles behind the growth and development 
of our people. In January 2016 we welcomed 
Mark Aylwin as Managing Director of Conviviality 
Direct; Mark joined the business from Booker 
Group Plc, where he held the position of 
Managing Director Booker Direct, and was 
appointed to the Plc Board in May 2016. 
Nigel Basey joined the Group in March 2016 
as Group Logistics Director. Nigel joined from 
DHL and was previously at Homebase. On 6 
June 2016 James Lousada joined the Group 
as Managing Director of Conviviality Trading; 
James was previously the Chief Executive 
Officer of Carlsberg UK. David Robinson also 
joined the Group as Managing Director of 
Conviviality Retail on 1 July 2016 and was 
previously the Chief Operating Officer of Argos. 
The Directors believe that these appointments 
have significantly strengthened the senior 
management team and provide the expertise 
to achieve the forecast synergy benefits of 
integrating the acquired businesses, whilst 
driving future growth to ensure Conviviality Plc 
reaches its potential market scale. 
I am pleased to report that the business 
integration is progressing well and I remain 
positive about the future and the 
opportunities ahead. 
Conviviality is a robust business across both 
the on-trade and off-trade markets enabling 
it, as the UK’s largest wholesaler and distributor 
of alcoholic drinks and impulse products, and 
following the acquisitions of Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group, to benefit from 
increased volumes and reach across 
the market.
Reflecting both the progress of the business 
and the strong future prospects, the Board 
is pleased to recommend a final dividend 
of 7 .4 pence per share, increasing the total 
dividend for the year by 14% to 9.5 pence 
per share.
This is an exciting time to be part of Conviviality. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all of our Franchise partners, customers and 
all of our people working in the business for 
their outstanding efforts which together have 
made the success of the past year possible.
David Adams
Chairman
18 July 2016
Conviviality Plc is 
a robust business 
with balance across 
the on-trade and 
off-trade markets.
