 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
13 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
A business with the skills 
and expertise to help 
our customers, suppliers 
and Conviviality grow
We have successfully completed a transformational 
year for our business and our strong results reflect 
our transition to being the UK’s leading independent 
alcohol and impulse products wholesaler and distributor 
serving consumers through our franchised retail outlets 
or through hospitality and food service.
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
Overview
Conviviality Plc has reconfigured its 
business, building on its significant 
strength and expertise in the UK drinks 
market, providing the Group with further 
growth potential in both the on and 
off-trade markets. This directly fulfils the 
Group’s mission to satisfy all customers 
who want to drink alcoholic beverages 
at home or out of the home, whatever 
the occasion: serving customers directly 
via retail outlets or indirectly through 
hospitality and food service. The Group’s 
aim is to be the drink and impulse products 
sector’s leading specialist wholesaler and 
distributor to the on and off-trade and to 
be the most knowledgeable and inspiring 
partner for our customers and Franchisees. 
As a result, Conviviality is able to provide 
suppliers with unparalleled market access, 
insight and capabilities to develop brands 
in the UK and beyond. 
Conviviality is independent of major drinks 
brands and therefore able to supply an 
unrestricted selection of products whilst 
providing expertise in key categories to 
customers who value breadth of range 
whilst offering a compelling route to market 
for suppliers to access both the on and 
off-trade retailers. As the retail environment 
becomes more complex, Conviviality, 
through its expertise, is able to provide 
its valued customers with the solutions 
they need from distribution, ranging 
and merchandising, and marketing.
The acquisition of Matthew Clark on 
7 October 2015 and the subsequent 
acquisition of Bibendum PLB Group post 
year end on 20 May 2016 resulted in pro 
forma combined revenues for the enlarged 
Group of over £1.4 billion. Bibendum PLB 
Group will provide the Group with additional 
wine expertise, access to the premium 
on-trade, particularly in London, and 
significant capability in consumer 
insights across the alcohol sector.
The increased scale enhances our ability 
to reach more customers across both the 
on and off-trade markets and therefore 
we have become more attractive to our 
suppliers, allowing us to secure better trade 
terms. In addition there is further potential 
to realise organisational, distribution and 
revenue synergies from the acquired 
businesses as we share resources.  14 Conviviality Plc
Overview continued
By strengthening our position in the 
sector, we have developed excellent 
collaboration between our suppliers 
and our buying teams. More than 400 
suppliers are now working with the 
Group. The full offering that is available 
to Conviviality customers spans across 
10,000 alcohol lines, 1,900 tobacco lines 
and 4,500 convenience food lines. 
Conviviality has an unrivalled range of 
premium bottled ales with 250 lines; the 
spirits range has over 2,500 lines with 
more than 300 gins; and we have a range 
of 6,500 wines. This year across the Group 
we have been recognised for the hard 
work of our buying teams, winning “Drinks 
Buying Team of the Year” at the Drinks 
Awards 2016 and “Fine Wine Merchant 
of the Year” at the Sommelier awards.
Financial results
An important aspect of our business model 
is its flexibility, protecting our earnings 
through periods of significant change in 
our organisation and a competitive external 
environment. We have continued to deliver 
against our objectives set out at flotation 
in July 2013 and are pleased to report profits 
slightly ahead of expectations, during a year 
where we have significantly transformed 
our business. For the 53 weeks to 1 May 2016 
revenue was up 137% to £864.5m reflecting 
the benefit of the Matthew Clark acquisition 
from 7 October, as such, adjusted EBITDA 
increased 135% to £30.2m and adjusted PBT 
increased 124% to £21.7m, demonstrating the 
significant strength of the combined Group. 
Adjusted fully diluted EPS is up 27% to 
14.2 pence. The acquisition of Matthew Clark 
resulted in an increase of net debt; however, 
this is currently at £86.1m which is below 
consensus expectations. The full-year 
dividend has increased 14% to 9.5 pence 
per share in line with our progressive 
dividend policy and reflecting underlying 
confidence in the outlook for the Group.
Organisation
Conviviality has changed the structure 
of its core businesses by putting in place 
three business units to ensure operational 
focus on each channel and the continued 
delivery of excellent service to its customers:
Conviviality Retail: The UK’s largest 
franchised off-licence and convenience 
chain with over 370 Franchisees and more 
than 700 retail stores trading primarily under 
the fascias of Bargain Booze, Bargain Booze 
Select Convenience and Wine Rack.
Conviviality Direct: The UK’s largest 
independent wholesaler to the on-trade, 
serving over 23,000 outlets from national 
prestige hotel chains to independent 
food-led pubs and restaurants trading 
through two businesses, Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum.
Conviviality Trading: A full service 
brand and wine agency with activation 
capability including festivals and events 
where new products and brands can be 
developed through the whole lifecycle 
and through to the on and off-trade.
In addition Conviviality has created 
a Group support function comprising 
logistics, finance, IT, legal and human 
resources to support each business unit, 
focusing on delivering expertise and 
removing duplication of task.
Organisation
Conviviality is organised in three business units and a Group support function:
Agency  
businesses
Events 
and experiential
Franchised  
retail
On-trade  
wholesale
Premium on-trade 
wholesale
Group Support: Logistics, Finance, IT, Legal and Human Resources
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
15 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
David Robinson joined the Group on 
1 July 2016 as Managing Director of 
Conviviality Retail. During the year Franchisee 
like for like retail sales improved to (1.3%), 
reflecting the strategy to improve the quality 
of the estate and strengthen perceptions 
of the fascia and brands. We reported in 
the 2015 Annual Report that in the last 
two years the Group embarked on a major 
restructure of the Franchisee base and 
that the programme had been completed, 
arresting the number of closures and 
successfully building a pipeline of openings. 
It is therefore pleasing to report that during 
the year the number of store closures 
decreased to 34, almost half the prior year, 
and the number of stores increased by 15% 
to 716, ahead of plan. 38 Franchisees joined 
the Group and the number of stores owned 
by multi-site Franchisees increased by 42% 
to 364, a strong indication of the benefits 
of our model to independent businesses. 
The Company’s 370 Franchisees are local 
people, employing local people, and are 
passionate about their customers and 
the communities in which they trade. 
Our Franchisees make a real difference in 
their local communities through a relentless 
focus on meeting consumer needs, providing 
a unique customer experience. By operating 
at the heart of their communities they play 
a key role in re-energising their locality, their 
stores are exciting and energising places 
to shop, and their people serve with care, 
consideration and great responsibility. 
The Conviviality Retail pricing policy is 
to be everyday low promotionally priced. 
On average across our off-licence range we 
have maintained competitiveness in spite 
of the heavy discounting in the market. 
Value and consistent pricing are important 
to our customers and they appreciate the 
transparency of our pricing strategy, which 
in turn increases customer loyalty. 
The Conviviality Retail Strategy is to:
 - Strengthen the relationship with 
Franchisees to drive sustainable 
and profitable growth 
 - Attract quality new Franchisees 
and generate growth from within
 - Strengthen the Bargain Booze brand, 
Select Convenience and Wine Rack 
fascias by driving awareness 
and broadening their appeal 
to new shoppers
 - Build credibility and capability 
in wine to attract new more 
affluent customer groups
 - Undertake complementary 
acquisitions to drive long-term value 
and expand into new territories using 
a mix of fascias and formats
 - To be recognised as the suppliers’ 
strategic partner of choice for the 
off-licence and convenience channel
 - Leverage wholesale capability 
into new markets
It is also pleasing that Wine Rack continues 
to perform well. During 2016 we opened 
three new Wine Rack locations in Ascot, 
Wilmslow and Yarnton. Wine Rack’s like for 
like performance is up 3.2%, reflecting the 
importance of a specialist wine and spirits 
proposition on the high street. Six of our 
Wine Rack stores are now managed by 
existing Franchisees of the Group. 
Our offer to potential new Franchisees is 
increasingly compelling, enabling them to 
compete effectively and generate solid 
profits. Our core model is predicated by 
Franchisee loyalty and commitment to 
upholding the values of our brands. This, 
combined with the high standards that we 
set, help deliver our differentiated “local 
customer experience”. We have some of 
the highest levels of loyalty in the sector 
with our retail/wholesale ratio at 96.6%. 
Franchisees have seen the potential to 
improve their profits by over £6,000 per 
year, compared to two years ago, through 
a consistent improvement in retail margin 
and the benefits of our award-winning 
Franchisee share scheme. The scheme 
enables Franchisees to be awarded up 
to 3,500 shares per store for achieving 
annual standards targets. Conviviality 
Retail actively rewards Franchisee loyalty 
and compliance; this year 1.3m shares 
will be allocated and to date over £3.6m 
has been awarded through the over rider 
scheme to our Franchisees. 
Conviviality Retail
David Robinson
Managing Director Conviviality Retail 16 Conviviality Plc
Mark Aylwin, who joined the business 
in January 2016, has been appointed 
Managing Director Conviviality Direct 
and is responsible for Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum, the specialist wholesalers 
to the on-trade. Since the acquisition, 
Matthew Clark revenues have increased 
4.9% to £497m (corresponding prior 
period £474m) on a like for like basis. 
The number of outlets has increased 
by 2.9% and adjusted EBITDA is up 
18% to £18.1m. 
The integration of Matthew Clark is 
ahead of schedule with a full leadership 
team in place. Matthew Clark affords a 
range of over 7,000 alcohol lines to over 
6,000 customers and serves over 19,000 
outlets. Matthew Clark offers a one-stop 
solution to hotels, restaurants, bars and 
venues for their alcohol needs delivering 
next day consistent service nationwide. 
The Conviviality Direct Strategy is focused on:
 - Communicating the unique Direct 
proposition clearly to target 
customers and strategic partners 
in the on-trade
 - Strengthening the position as a 
centre of expertise in wine and at 
the forefront of range innovation, 
particularly in world beers and spirits 
in the dynamic drinks sector
 - Leveraging scale and reach to 
become the most competitive 
wholesaler in the drinks market
 - Growing the number of food-led 
outlets served and the mix of 
products across each outlet
 - Growing share in major cities and 
inner urban areas through a superior 
service proposition
 - Developing the tools and 
capabilities to ensure we provide the 
most value-adding customer service 
in the market
Matthew Clark is based in Bristol, 
where its support centre is located, and 
its sales force of over 230 employees are 
based across Scotland, the North, Central 
and South West, London and the South 
East, ensuring excellent service to its 
independent free trade customers. 
Matthew Clark has a 41 strong sales team 
to support its National Account business. 
The sales team has up-to-date information 
on industry sales trends, new product 
information and pricing and is able to 
recommend new or popular products 
to customers to help them optimise the 
breadth of products offered. Conviviality’s 
nationwide distribution network of 18 depots 
ensures customers benefit from a nationwide 
next day delivery service and timed 
delivery slots.
Conviviality Direct’s other trading business, 
Bibendum, affords a range of over 4,000 
wines, with strength in old world wines 
sourced from over 300 suppliers, some with 
exclusive distribution, across 20 different 
countries. Bibendum has significant skill 
and expertise in wine, providing excellent 
training to all of its team and support to 
its 3,500 strong customer base by advising 
them on the right ranges to meet their 
specific customer needs. Bibendum is 
based in London with a sales force of 109 
around the country. Consumer insight is 
a key strength of the Bibendum business 
and in turn its demographic profiling and 
ranging capability is valued by its customer 
base. The new Plonk app, which helps 
customers learn about wine whilst also 
sharing their wine and food experiences 
and favourites, is an exciting development 
from the team.
Bibendum PLB Group acquired Walker 
& Wodehouse in 2014. Walker & Wodehouse 
focuses on supplying independent wine 
merchants and regional wholesalers with a 
number of exclusive products and producers. 
The business is separate and distinct from 
Matthew Clark and Bibendum Wine in 
the on-trade. Whilst this is a small part 
of Conviviality it is building the business’ 
skills and capabilities in independent 
specialist wholesale.
Conviviality Direct
Mark Aylwin
Managing Director Conviviality Direct
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements
17 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
James Lousada joined the Company as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Trading 
on 6 June 2016 formerly holding the role 
of CEO at Carlsberg UK. Conviviality 
Trading brings together PLB, Instil and 
Catalyst Brands, three specialist brand 
agency businesses, each with significant 
expertise in their respective categories. 
PLB was founded in 1982 and is a 
consolidator of wine suppliers and 
in turn manages the supply of wine to 
the off-trade, incorporating Bibendum 
Wine’s off-trade offering. PLB sells more 
than 9m nine-litre cases of wine per 
annum to the UK retail trade including 
high street retailers, specialists and 
supermarkets, and it has built a reputation 
for significant expertise in wine, brand 
and innovation. PLB’s supply base covers 
Europe, the Americas, Australasia and 
South Africa; its portfolio includes 
prestigious brands such as Blason de 
Bourgogne, Catena, Plaimont, Banfi and 
Kautz. PLB has capabilities in consumer 
insight, sourcing, ranging and supply that 
can add significant value to its customers 
by reducing the complexity of the wine 
category in large multiple national chains.
Instil Drinks Co is a brand agency business 
acting for brand owners to increase distribution 
of beer and spirits brands (for example 
Estrella Galicia) to both the on-trade and 
off-trade. Instil has significant expertise 
in the beer category, adding value to its 
customers through its understanding of 
world beers, craft beers and local and 
regional ranging.
Catalyst Brands is an agency acting for 
spirits and wine brand owners to increase 
distribution of brands to both the on-trade 
and the off-trade. Catalyst Brands includes 
Bottega wines and Prosecco, J&B Scotch 
whisky, Larios gin and VOSS water. 
In addition to the agency business, 
Conviviality Trading is also responsible 
for the development and growth of new 
business areas including Peppermint and 
Wondering Wine Co, which are both 
specialists in outdoor events and festivals, 
and Elastic, a brand activation agency 
that provides support and insight to many 
of Conviviality’s branded supply base.
Peppermint is an outdoor event bar 
operator with significant expertise in large 
scale events and festivals such as the 
Henley Regatta, the Isle of Wight Festival, 
Barclaycard British Summer Time and 
Bestival. In December 2015 Conviviality 
acquired 61% of the share capital of 
Peppermint Bars and Events Limited 
for a total consideration of £8.0m (£1.8m 
cash and £6.2m contingent consideration). 
Conviviality is committed to acquire the 
remaining 39% in the year ending April 2020 
or April 2021 based on EBITDA in the year 
ending April 2019 or April 2020. 
Wondering Wine Co is a premium 
outdoor bar operator formed as part 
of Bibendum PLB Group. The business 
complements the work of Peppermint and 
the Company expects to see growth of 
Wondering Wine Co through its association 
with the Peppermint business.
Elastic is a marketing agency focused 
on experiential promotional campaigns 
to launch or re-launch brands, utilising 
data to directly measure the impact of 
the promotional campaigns. Conviviality 
works closely with branded suppliers, 
many of whom not only want to increase 
distribution of brands but also build new 
brands or reinvigorate brands. Elastic has 
significant expertise in the drinks sector and 
as such supports many of Conviviality’s 
suppliers with brand activation.
Conviviality Trading’s key strategic aims 
are to:
 - Become the market leader and centre 
of expertise in wine sourcing, ranging, 
merchandising and activation 
providing its key customers with 
unrivalled service to meet their 
customer needs by format 
and location 
 - Develop a one-stop service for drinks 
brands leveraging distribution, sales, 
agency, marketing and event 
capabilities
 - Be at the forefront of range innovation 
in the dynamic drinks sector
 - Become recognised as the suppliers’ 
strategic partner of choice in the 
on-trade 
Group
The Group functions comprise wine buying, 
logistics, finance, legal, IT and human 
resources all of which provide the expertise 
and support to each of the business units, 
removing duplication and in turn enabling 
the business units to focus directly on serving 
their customers and working in partnership 
with their suppliers. The 18 depots nationwide 
are managed through the Group logistics 
function, driving best practice and 
efficiencies and ensuring that each and 
every customer and Franchisee receives 
consistent service and support across 
every outlet.
Conviviality Trading
James Lousada
Managing Director Conviviality Trading 18 Conviviality Plc
Operational efficiencies
With the greater scale of the Group there 
is the potential to realise lower costs 
through buying and distribution and 
improved organisational efficiency. A clear 
integration plan has been established to 
ensure the benefits of both the Matthew Clark 
and Bibendum PLB Group acquisitions are 
achieved. By buying the two businesses in 
relatively close succession the Company is 
able to simplify the integration process 
particularly in the areas of logistics and IT. 
The key benefit areas are detailed as follows:
Buying benefits
There is overlap between suppliers and 
products across Conviviality and Matthew 
Clark and also Bibendum PLB Group. As a 
result, the Group expects buying benefits 
through pricing and terms harmonisation 
across the Group. The benefits from the 
Matthew Clark buying synergies are included 
in the Group forecasts. Further potential 
benefit will be realised over time by taking 
a Group approach to buying. The Group 
has put in place a Group Wine Buying 
Director, Andrew Shaw, previously Buying 
Director for Bibendum PLB Group, to set 
out the Group strategy for wine and take 
buying responsibility across the full Group. 
In turn the Group has put in place a 
Buying Director, Steve Jebson, previously 
Commercial Director at Greene King PLC, 
to buy spirits, lager beer and cider and 
soft drinks for the on-trade. Both of these 
important roles will help the Group ensure 
benefits are realised through increased 
scale and synergy benefits achieved.
Logistics and distribution
With the acquisition of Matthew Clark and the 
subsequent acquisition of Bibendum PLB 
Group, the depot network of Conviviality has 
increased from two to 18 depots nationwide 
and a third party logistics operation managed 
by DHL Trade T eam, as well as a fleet of over 
260 vehicles. This depot network provides 
the Group with the opportunity to deliver 
better service to its customers by being able 
to deliver nationwide next day with timed 
delivery slots and to drive a more efficient 
operation through better route planning 
and vehicle utilisation. It is our expectation 
to deliver synergies of between £1.0m 
and £1.5m in FY18. Furthermore it has given 
Conviviality the opportunity to set out a clear 
strategy to optimise the network for future 
growth over time as some leases of depots 
become available for review. To achieve 
this a Group logistics structure has been 
implemented and Nigel Basey has been 
appointed as Group Logistics and Distribution 
Director to lead this important work across 
the Group.
Organisation
The enlarged Group employs 2,639 people 
across 18 depots and three support offices 
and regional sales teams and as a result 
there is significant talent in the organisation. 
By bringing the respective teams in the 
businesses closer together we are seeing clear 
opportunities to drive greater efficiencies, 
develop talent across the business and drive 
operational savings. We expect organisational 
synergy benefits to be realised during FY18.
People
We see it as our responsibility to create 
a business that offers talented and 
committed people sustainable and 
worthwhile employment, and a safe 
and secure environment where our 
people can grow and thrive. Developing 
our management capability and developing 
our internal talent is key to our strategy.
In November 2015 we welcomed Sallyann 
Brookes as Group People Director to help 
ensure that we have a common set of 
guiding principles behind the growth and 
development of our people. In January 2016 
we welcomed Mark Aylwin as Managing 
Director of Conviviality Direct; Mark joined 
the business from Booker Group Plc, where 
he held the position of Managing Director 
Booker Direct, and was appointed to the 
Plc Board in May 2016. Nigel Basey joined 
the Group in March 2016 as Group Logistics 
Director. Nigel joined from DHL and was 
previously at Homebase. On 6 June 2016 
James Lousada joined the Group as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Trading; 
James was previously the Chief Executive 
Officer of Carlsberg UK. 
David Robinson also joined the Group as 
Managing Director of Conviviality Retail 
on 1 July 2016 and was previously the 
Chief Operating Officer of Argos.
Current trading
The Company and its businesses are trading 
in line with management’s expectations. 
Matthew Clark continues to trade at 4.8% 
above last year and it is pleasing to see 
that Bibendum PLB Group has brought 
in 110 new customers since acquisition on 
20 May 2016. We saw a strong start to the 
financial year in Conviviality Retail, although 
some softening has been experienced in 
June 2016 with like for like sales to 3 July 
2016 being (2.1%).
Outlook
We look to the year ahead with a stronger 
and more resilient business able to thrive 
in uncertain economic times. It is our 
intention to continue to deliver against our 
integration plan during the year, ensuring 
the benefits are realised from our 
transformational acquisitions. The 
performance of the businesses is 
encouraging, with the team’s relentless 
focus on serving their customers well 
and supporting Franchisees in the Retail 
business evidenced by the consistent 
delivery of results. We continue to review 
the market within which we trade ensuring 
that we strengthen our position as the 
UK’s leading drinks and impulse products 
wholesaler and distributor.
Diana Hunter
Chief Executive Officer
18 July 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
