 Corero Network Security plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 18
Overview
We have made significant progress in the 
year to 31 December 2016 with increasing 
confidence that we have a market leading 
product in SmartWall and an organisation 
focused on delighting customers. The 
market opportunity is significant and 
developing as the DDoS threat landscape 
evolves. We have continued to invest in the 
technology roadmap with the introduction 
of a 100G SmartWall product and plans to 
launch a Cloud enabled product in 2017. We 
have also expanded our addressable market 
with the as-a-service offering and plan to 
leverage go-to-market partnerships with 
other network and security companies.
Board changes
Andrew Lloyd, previously a Non-Executive 
Director of the Company, was appointed 
President and Executive Vice President 
Sales and Marketing in January 2017. 
Andrew will be responsible for leading 
Corero’s commercial expansion and sales 
growth. I am delighted that Andrew has 
agreed to join Corero in an executive role. 
His skillset and experience of both growth 
companies and large multinationals will be 
invaluable as we drive our revenue growth 
and establish Corero as a leading player in 
the DDoS mitigation market. 
With Andrew Lloyd’s appointment, we have 
deliberated on the balance of the Board 
between executives and non-executives.  
We will keep the composition of the Board 
under review.
The notice of AGM includes a resolution to 
reappoint Ashley Stephenson who retires by 
rotation in accordance with the Company’s 
articles of association and a resolution to 
reappoint Andrew Lloyd who was appointed 
an Executive Director in the period since 
the last AGM.
Looking ahead
I am confident with the progress made in 
2016 and the focus on expanding Corero’s 
routes to market with new sales models and 
partnerships such as the Juniper Networks 
relationship announced in February 2017, 
that the business will deliver on its strategic 
goals and become a leading player in the 
DDoS mitigation market.
Finally, I would like to thank all our employees 
for their hard work and commitment.
Jens Montanana
Chairman
5 April 2017
Chairman’s introduction
“I am confident the 
business will deliver 
on its strategic 
goals and become  
a leading player  
in the DDoS 
mitigation market.”
 
Jens Montanana
Chairman
We have made significant progress in the last year with increasing 
confidence that SmartWall is a market leading product.
