 CORETX Holdings plc
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2016
Page 5
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
2016 has been a year of significant progress for CORETX. 
The acquisitions of Selection and C4L in early 2016 gave us the initial building blocks for the new CORETX business, 
providing a good platform from which to move forwards with our objective of becoming a leading Cloud and Managed 
Services provider to the UK mid-market, where demand for Cloud based solutions and managed services remains high.
Much of the focus in 2016 was on integrating both businesses we acquired into a single operating structure, with common 
processes and platforms.  The investment and effort of doing this work straight away will help us integrate future 
acquisitions in a more cost effective and timely manner, and will protect margins going forwards by helping to reduce both 
operating costs and overheads.  As part of the integration programme we rebranded the whole business as CORETX in 
April 2016.
We have also made significant changes to the senior management team, attracting experienced talent from within the 
industry who have knowledge of building and growing successful IT services companies, as well as promoting a number of 
managers from within the business who had the potential to contribute to the success of the business. This now gives us 
the management capability needed to scale the business going forwards.
Throughout the changes implemented over 2016, the needs of our customers have been at the forefront of our decisions. 
We aim to engage closely, to understand their business objectives and to provide them with the solutions they need.
We have improved our customer engagement model, ensuring we put the customer at the centre of everything we do, 
strengthening the platforms we use to manage communication with customers and manage day to day service, and 
improving our project management capabilities. Feedback from customers has been very positive, and is reflected in the 
extra revenue we have secured with existing customers through the second half of 2016.
We have invested in our portfolio of products and services by developing new offerings in Networks, Voice, Unified 
Communications, Mobility, Lifecycle, and Public and Private Cloud and partnering with a number of companies that have 
complementary products and services, all of which allow us to deliver better value-add to our customers.  This has enabled 
us to grow our recurring Managed Services revenue, and increase the amount of professional services revenue from having 
a higher number of consultancy led engagements.
A new Talent and Training function has been established, and we launched the CORETX Learning Cloud in May 2016. This 
is a new online learning platform that has enabled us to deliver over 2,500 training courses to CORETX employees in 2016.  
We have also invested in a number of other talent and training initiatives, including TalentQ and Institute of Leadership 
and Management (ILM) training for middle management.  On-going training forms a key part of our strategy to become a 
trusted advisor and long term business partner to our customers.
Our new Apprentice Programme was launched towards the end of 2016, and we now have ten Apprentices working within 
the business.  We will continue to develop and expand our Apprentice Programme in 2017 and offer more opportunities for 
talented young people coming out of full-time education to start their careers with CORETX.
Our governance processes have been strengthened during the year.  We have achieved ISO9001, ISO20001 and ISO27001 
certification across the whole CORETX business, as well as PCI-DSS compliance for our Bournemouth data centre.
Our growth and improved trading performance in the second half of 2016 demonstrates the impact all these changes have 
made, including adding 30 new name customers over the year, and I am confident that we are now well placed to drive 
further organic growth in 2017 and beyond. In addition, we will continue to actively seek out acquisition opportunities that 
have the right strategic fit, accelerate our growth trajectory and strengthen our market position.
Andy Ross
Chief Executive Officer
6 April 2017
