 04 Corero Network Security plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
“Our goal is to grow 
faster than the 
market by taking 
share from others. 
Head to head trials 
are proving we 
are the number 
one solution for 
real-time DDoS 
mitigation.”
 
Ashley Stephenson
Chief Executive Officer
Results
Corero revenue for the year ended 31 
December 2016 was $8.8 million (2015: $8.3 
million) with SmartWall revenue up 62% 
over the prior year whilst legacy product 
revenues declined as expected. The EBITDA 
loss was $5.1 million (2015: EBITDA loss  
$6.4 million). 
The 2016 revenue was lower than expected, 
impacted by extended sales cycles for the 
large Tier 1 service provider customer 
segment and the new as-a-service 
customers signed in the fourth quarter of 
2016, where the revenue is recognised 
monthly over the term of the contract.
Market dynamics
2016 marked a turning point for DDoS, as 
attacks reached new heights in terms of 
both size and complexity. The Mirai botnet 
showed us just how powerful an Internet of 
Things (IoT) powered DDoS attack could 
really be, with the unprecedented onslaught 
against DNS provider Dyn in September 
2016. Overnight, the security considerations 
around connected devices went from being 
something that security consultants have 
long warned about, into a hot button issue 
that could no longer be ignored. This will 
only increase with the first Terabit-scale 
DDoS attack likely to occur in the year 
ahead, with far-reaching implications and 
the potential to impact the Internet 
backbone itself.
With DDoS attacks costing large enterprises 
an average of US$500,000 per incident in 
lost business and IT spending, these 
increased threats will mean that defending 
against DDoS attacks will become a top 
security priority for any organisation that 
relies on the Internet to conduct business. 
Our entire digital economy depends upon 
access to the internet, and so organisations 
will need to think carefully about business 
continuity in the wake of such events. 
In preparing a robust defence against 
botnets like Mirai, it is important to 
consider how they work. Effectively acting 
like a giant cloud computer, botnet-driven 
attacks are launched and then disappear 
without leaving enough information for 
victims to trace its origins. This leaves 
organisations really no choice but to defend 
themselves at the edges of the network. 
Legacy out-of-band scrubbing solutions, 
which require human intervention and 
reactive countermeasures to remove the 
attack, will not be successful, and using such 
systems will also allow hackers to 
experiment on networks undetected, 
finding vulnerabilities and testing new 
methods through smaller, hidden attacks 
that don’t meet the threshold for scrubbing.
The only proper defence is to use an 
automatic, always-on, in-line DDoS 
mitigation system, which can monitor all 
traffic in real-time, negate the flood of 
attack traffic at the internet edge, eliminate 
service outages and allow security 
personnel to focus on uncovering any 
subsequent malicious activity, such as data 
breaches or malware deposits. This type of 
in-line, always-on protection can come in 
various forms – either on-premises, or 
purchased as a security service from an 
upstream provider. It is only through 
deploying these real-time solutions that 
organisations will be able to identify and 
mitigate the most serious botnet-driven 
DDoS attacks on their networks in the  
years ahead.
Chief Executive’s strategic update
Corero is well positioned to deliver on its goal of being the leading 
player in the real-time DDoS mitigation market with SmartWall solution 
validation from over 60 customers and technology validation from NSS 
Labs, the world’s leading independent security product test laboratory.  Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notice of AGM Corporate Directory
05 Corero Network Security plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Operating performance 
against strategy
Our customer wins in the last year have 
validated the Corero target market for 
real-time, automatic DDoS mitigation 
solutions – namely service providers, 
hosting providers and online enterprises. 
We have also expanded our addressable 
market with an as-a-service pricing model 
targeting emerging companies in this 
target market who wish to acquire our 
technology on the more modern pay-as-
you-grow model rather than larger up-front 
capital expenditures. Our recently launched 
SmartProtect program enables customers 
to monetise DDoS Protection as-a-Service.
Corero has an increasing number of 
satisfied customers who are willing to be 
industry references for the breakthrough 
levels of automation, security and service 
that Corero delivers.
We have delivered on our strategic goals of 
adding new DDoS attack defences to the 
SmartWall product and additional forensics 
and analytics capability. In addition, we 
announced at the RSA security show in San 
Francisco in February 2017 the availability of 
a 100G SmartWall product and we have plans 
to launch a Cloud enabled product in 2017.
Corero’s strategy is to work with leading IT 
and network technology vendors to make 
DDoS mitigation an integral component of 
any well-engineered Internet facing 
network design thereby increasing our 
go-to-market opportunities. The recently 
announced technology alliance 
partnership with Juniper Networks, a US 
based multinational corporation that 
develops and markets networking and 
security products, is the first of such 
partnerships, and will enable Corero to 
expand its market reach by leveraging 
Juniper Networks’ global footprint. 
Fund raise
The proposed equity fund raise to be 
announced on 6 April 2017 will provide the 
funding required to execute the Company’s 
strategy and get to the position of being 
cash generating. 
Outlook
We have strengthened our sales leadership 
with the recent appointment of Andrew 
Lloyd as President and Executive Vice 
President Sales. We have also expanded  
our addressable market via the recently 
introduced as-a-service purchase model  
and are encouraged by the potential for 
strategic go-to-market partnerships such  
as the alliance with Juniper Networks. 
The 2017 financial year is off to a good start 
with Corero’s largest SmartWall contract 
win to date with a leading Cloud services 
provider. We expect an increasing number 
of corporations will see the value of 
investing in DDoS protection to protect 
their revenue streams and defend their 
brand reputations.
This gives us confidence Corero will deliver 
revenue growth in 2017.
Ashley Stephenson
Chief Executive Officer
5 April 2017
“We specifically value the automated attack mitigation functionality. Corero’s SOC monitors 
conditions for us and responds accordingly. Our team monitors traffic but we don’t have to  
worry about it. We set it and forget it.”
Stephen Clark
Director of IP Networks, BCI Commercial Telecom Systems
Technology validation
Corero received 
“Recommended” 
rating in NSS Labs DDoS test  
(March 2016)
Customer validation
100% 
Smartwall support renewal rate for 
Smartwall deployed customers
