 02 Corero Network Security plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Target markets:
PROTECT AND OPTIMIZE your 
critical infrastructure and  
online services
Service providers 
Hosting providers  
and data centres
Online enterprises
DDoS attacks continue to rise in size, frequency, and complexity, impacting 
the security and availability of the Internet. Service providers and Internet 
connected businesses require real-time protection against this evolving 
threat landscape.
Corero is dedicated to improving the 
security and availability of the Internet 
through the deployment of innovative  
DDoS mitigation solutions. The Corero 
SmartWall® Threat Defense System 
(“SmartWall”) family of products can be 
deployed in various topologies (in-line or 
scrubbing). The SmartWall family of 
solutions utilises modern DDoS mitigation 
architecture to automatically and surgically 
remove DDoS attack traffic, while allowing 
good user traffic to flow uninterrupted.
Corero’s key operational centres are in 
Marlborough, Massachusetts in the USA 
and Edinburgh in the UK, with the 
Company’s registered office in Uxbridge  
in the UK.
• The goal of the Corero real-time DDoS 
mitigation solution is to protect the 
customer’s service availability and 
ultimately revenues and brand 
reputations from harmful DDoS attacks. 
• The Corero solutions are the highest 
performing in the industry, while 
providing the most automated DDoS 
protection at unprecedented scale with 
the lowest total cost of ownership to  
the customer. 
• These solutions are designed to provide 
real-time attack mitigation with 
continuous threat visibility, enabling  
the monetisation of DDPaaS offerings. 
• The Corero SmartWall protects against 
the latest breed of DDoS attacks in 
seconds not minutes, including network 
and application layer attacks, volumetric 
and multi-vector attacks.
64
active global 
SmartWall 
customers
Real-time
Protection 
Against DDoS 
attacks and  
cyber threats
At a glance
Find out more at:
www.corero.com Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Notice of AGM Corporate Directory
03 Corero Network Security plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 North America   59%
 EMEA   41%
 Product engineering  
 & management   42%
 Sales & marketing 28%
 Support & services 18%
 Management &  
 administration  12%
Geographic order 
intake analysis *
Corero has a team of 
talented employees who are 
focused on delivering the 
Company’s strategy
 Service Providers  35%
 Hosting Providers 35%
 Online enterprises 30%
Sector order intake 
analysis *
“Protecting the security of our network and delivering peace of mind to our customers is a critical 
focus for Liquid Web. It’s one of the reasons we have such an admired brand and earned loyalty from 
our customers. Investing in the Corero SmartWall solution enables us to deliver on that security 
promise by significantly reducing the impact of DDoS attacks, while lessening the need for human 
intervention, which allows us to focus on other technology initiatives.”
Joe Oesterling
CTO, Liquid Web
* order intake (as opposed to revenue)
