 CORETX Holdings plc
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2016
Page 4
Chairman’s statement
I’m pleased to present CORETX’s first full year results as a Cloud and Managed IT Services business, a period which has 
involved a significant level of activity for the Group.
The year began with the acquisitions of Selection Services Investments Limited (“Selection”) and C4L Group Holdings 
Limited (“C4L”), enabled through an oversubscribed placing with institutional shareholders.
In the months since, the Chief Executive Officer, Andy Ross, has successfully integrated the businesses onto a single 
platform under the new CORETX brand. The work has been guided by an unwavering focus on customers and improving 
CORETX’s ability to support their needs with the best advice and solutions.
This has been accomplished through the recruitment of a new leadership team, restructuring the sales teams and a 
significant investment to unify the Group’s back-office operations, with new systems enhancing customer service and 
enabling the business to scale rapidly. Looking to the future, the first intake into a new apprenticeship scheme has also 
been welcomed.
The Group’s service portfolio has both been extended in capability and scope. The CORETX network now provides faster 
connectivity, improved security and enhanced public cloud connections with new partnerships further extending and 
improving the service proposition. All this augurs well as mid-market organisations begin to embrace the opportunities 
cloud based solutions offer.
Notwithstanding all this activity the Group has continued to increase revenue and gross margin. The level of recurring 
revenue, a key performance indicator, has improved by 1% in the second half over the first half, whilst the Group was cash 
generative in the second half following the acquisitions in the first half. Importantly, all key metrics showed an improved 
performance in the second half of the year over the first, reflecting underlying improvement in operations.
With a clearly defined strategy, customer driven focus and enhanced operational capability, CORETX is well positioned to 
become a leading provider of Cloud and Managed IT Services to the UK mid-market. 
The Group has started the 2017 year in line with expectations and there is a healthy pipeline of opportunities within the 
existing customer base, as well as with potential new customers. 
In conclusion, 2016 has been a year of good progress and the Board is optimistic that further success lies ahead during 
2017 and beyond through both organic and inorganic activities.
Jonathan Watts
Non-Executive Chairman
6 April 2017
