 2016 was a year of two halves for the property market in the UK. 
The first half of the year saw Countrywide benefit from a strong 
residential sales market and the actions we took to strengthen 
the core business in both Sales and Lettings. The changes to stamp 
duty land tax on second homes provided a lift to first quarter 
volumes as our sales team capitalised on those buying second 
homes – most notably investor landlords who pulled forward 
transactions to beat the April deadline for the additional 3% 
levy. However, the introduction of higher rate stamp duty land 
tax rates for second home purchasers combined with previous 
stamp duty land tax rate rises on £1 million homes suppressed 
the market. This was most evident at the upper end of the sector 
where the stamp duty burden is greatest, inevitably meaning 
that this – effectively geographic – tax hurts aspiring working 
households in London and the South East more than anywhere 
else in the UK. 
Neighbourhood City
Price of a
two bed
terrace house
Stamp duty  
f o r o w n e r  -
 occupiers
Stamp duty for 
investors/
second home 
buyers
Wimbledon London £714,000 £25,700 £47,120
Moseley Birmingham £272,000 £3,600 £11,760
Gosforth Newcastle £198,000 £1,460 £7,400
Source: Countrywide 2016
Read more on our markets page 15
The outcome of June’s referendum on the UK’s membership 
of the European Union predictably had an impact on confidence 
in the housing market in the second half of the year. Transactions fell 
in the third quarter, and in the fourth quarter were also down 
(9% year on year); consumers showed an appetite for mitigating 
risks and the number of customers seeking to remortgage was 
up, with approvals up by 14% compared to 2015, with the 
number of loans at its highest level since 2009. 
Thanks to the diversity of our geographic footprint and service 
offer, despite these headwinds, we maintained Group revenue 
at the same level as 2015. We increased our market share in 
Mortgages and Surveying, maintained our leading market share 
position in both Sales and Lettings, and took a significant step 
forward in our ability to grow the number of properties under 
management in our Lettings business. 
Geographic and  
service diversification 
underpins performance in uncertain markets
In summary
• 
A year of unprecedented change
• 
Focus on organic growth, execution and 
acceleration of proposition improvements, 
and business transformation
• 
Growth in market share in Mortgages and 
Surveying, maintenance of our leading market 
share position in Sales and Lettings and growth 
in the number of properties under management 
• 
Successful launch of our multichannel proposition
• 
Streamlining our branch footprint as we move to 
fewer, bigger brands and fewer, better branches
Our focus on building a business 
which is genuinely multichannel 
in nature, delivers more choice 
and flexibility to customers and 
lowers our cost of doing business 
is imperative.
Strategic report
Our chief executive officer’s review
06 and focus on growing our business through achieving more for 
our customers. Seeing colleagues leave our business is never 
easy and, although tough, the decisions we took in 2016 will stand 
us in good stead as we navigate the market challenges ahead. 
As we enter 2017 we do so with confidence – both in the capabilities 
our business and our people have to serve our customers, and in 
our clear plans for transformation. The progress made, and momentum 
gained from responding rapidly to the changing market conditions 
in 2016, put us firmly on the front foot and mean we are well placed 
to deliver on our strategy: delivering a better, more personalised 
customer experience; creating an internal environment for great 
people to flourish; and aligning our portfolio to where the growth is. 
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
9 March 2017
Our focus on delivering improved levels of service to our landlords 
and their tenants has been a core focus for Countrywide over the 
last year and the turnaround in performance is really pleasing. 
Challenges in the property market are likely to be with us for some 
time whilst uncertainty around the UK economy weighs heavily on 
consumer confidence. The Chancellor’s intent to remove tenants’ 
fees brings further challenges to the rental sector, where increasing 
regulatory burdens risk some agents putting quality a poor second 
to rates of return. 
In our view, these market conditions create an impetus to change 
our business faster. Our focus on building a business which is 
genuinely multichannel in nature, delivers more choice and flexibility 
to customers and lowers our cost of doing business is imperative 
for us now. The launch of our digital sales pilot in summer 2016 
has surpassed our ambitions and we have now accelerated the 
rollout to more than 25% of our network. Whilst that rollout will 
continue at pace development is now focused on building both 
telephone and digital channels in our Mortgage and protection 
business and our across our Lettings proposition.
Our focus on reducing the cost base came immediately post the 
EU referendum and has continued at pace. We initiated significant 
cost cutting, with estimated run rate reductions of £10 million 
already embedded and a further £9 million expected in 2017. 
The strategic review of our Commercial business is underway as 
we seek a route to enable our growth agenda without increasing 
our debt. These exceptional costs of restructuring our business 
of £27.7 million (including £1.4 million impairment of brands we 
rationalised) were incurred in parallel with goodwill impairment 
charges of £19.6 million arising from market conditions.
The current market provides an opportunity to accelerate towards 
our vision of being recognised as the most recommended company 
in the property sector. The work we started in 2015 to improve our 
customers’ experience, while increasing the efficiency and productivity 
of our business, continues at pace. In 2016 that marked a shift away 
from growth delivered though acquiring independent businesses 
to organic growth. In building a multichannel network we have 
taken the opportunity to review our footprint across the UK and 
in pursuit of fewer, bigger, better brands and branches, we closed 
200 branches across the UK. That, coupled with a reduction in the 
layers of management, has enhanced our ability to move at pace, 
This strategic report was approved by the Board of directors on 
9 March 2017 and signed on its behalf by: 
Alison Platt
Chief executive officer
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 07
Strategic report
