 STRATEGIC REPORT
5
2016 PERFORMANCE
2016 has been another year of significant progress 
for the Group. It marked increased activity for both 
our Partnerships and Housebuilding divisions and 
the return of the business to the London Stock 
Exchange in February 2016. I am delighted to report 
strong results for the year, with a 12 per cent 
increase in completions to 2,657 homes and a 
34 per cent increase in adjusted operating profit 
to £122.5m. 
At 30 September 2016 we had 43 sales outlets, 
14 more than the year before. We have a further 
29 sites under construction, which, when combined 
with a strong sales rate and record private forward 
order book, gives us excellent visibility over our 
growth plans for the coming year. 
More detailed information on our financial 
performance can be found on pages 26 to 29.
STRONG BALANCE SHEET
We have significantly strengthened our balance 
sheet during 2016. We raised £114m of net primary 
proceeds in new share capital when we listed on 
the London Stock Exchange in February. Then in 
May 2016 we successfully refinanced our debt 
facilities, securing a new £300m revolving credit 
facility together with a further £100m accordion 
facility at a lower interest cost. Our financial 
strength positions us well to deliver the growth 
strategy set out at our Initial Public Offering (“IPO”). 
At the year end we had net cash of £12.0m. 
WELL POSITIONED FOR GROWTH
We welcome the Government’s commitment 
to housing and particularly to urban regeneration, 
which is a key differentiator of our business. Our 
track record in delivering regeneration projects 
across London and the North West of England 
over the last 30 years positions us well to help 
local authorities meet their housing needs. We 
continue to work in partnership with both private 
and public sector landowners to develop new 
communities and undertake urban regeneration. 
While we are mindful of the medium-term 
uncertainty over the United Kingdom’s exit from 
the European Union, our targets, as outlined at 
our IPO, remain unchanged. We remain firmly 
on track to deliver our medium term targets of 
over 3,600 completions per year, an adjusted 
operating margin of over 17 per cent and 
improvement in return on capital employed 
(“ROCE”) to over 28 per cent. 
RETURNS TO SHAREHOLDERS
Our share price has held up well since our flotation, 
despite the turbulence in the market. From our 
IPO date of 17 February 2016 to the end of our 
financial year on 30 September 2016 we delivered 
a total shareholder return of 7.9 per cent. 
We have recommended our first dividend of 
3.4 pence per share. Subject to approval at the 
AGM on 26 January 2017, the dividend will be 
paid on 3 February 2017 to shareholders 
registered at 13 January 2017. 
We have set a target dividend pay-out ratio of 
30 per cent of adjusted earnings as we look to 
use the remaining profits to reinvest in growth, 
while maintaining a broadly debt-neutral strategy. 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
During the year we continued to strengthen our 
corporate governance ensuring that the financial, 
operational and qualitative measures required 
to operate our business and manage the risks 
are in place. 
More information can be found within our 
Corporate Governance Report on pages 44 to 46.
OUR PEOPLE
Our people are essential to delivering our  
strategy. At 30 September 2016 we had 1,087 
employees across the business, an increase of 
25 per cent over the prior year. 70 per cent of 
our employees subscribed to our Save As You 
Earn scheme and will therefore participate in 
our growth. 
I would like to thank each and every one 
of our employees for their hard work during 
the course of the year. 
David Howell
Chairman
28 November 2016
A YEAR OF 
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“ We are delighted with the performance of the Group in 2016, delivering solid growth and 
a strengthened balance sheet and marking our return to the London Stock Exchange.  
We enter the 2017 financial year in a strong position with an industry-leading land bank and 
record private forward order book. Our strategy remains to deliver growth, increasing returns 
and capital efficiency from our balanced business models of Housebuilding and Partnerships.  
We see significant growth opportunities in Partnerships with increased estate regeneration 
in London and geographic expansion into the West Midlands, while our increased scale and 
operational efficiency in Housebuilding continues to improve operating margins.”
