 I am pleased to report that Costain has 
delivered another strong result, with 
continued growth in both revenue and 
profit, and has maintained a record 
forward order book.”
Dr Paul Golby CBE | Chairman
This is my first statement since joining the 
Board and becoming Chairman on 5 May 
2016. I am pleased to report that Costain 
has delivered another strong result, with 
continued growth in both revenue and 
profit, and has maintained a record forward 
order book. 
I was delighted to have been asked to join 
Costain. It is a great British engineering 
success story with an outstanding brand 
and leading market positions. 
I look forward to playing a part in 
delivering further success as the Group 
accelerates its growth.
Costain’s opportunity
These are exciting times for Costain. 
The cross-party political support for 
investment in infrastructure as a facilitator 
of sustainable economic growth, coupled 
with our customers’ committed multi-billion 
pound investment programmes, creates 
a positive environment for the Group 
to continue to grow. This is evidenced 
through recent decisions to progress 
investment programmes at Hinkley, 
Heathrow and High Speed 2.
Meanwhile, the increasingly complex 
demands of the Group’s blue chip 
customers present engineering challenges 
which require an even greater emphasis 
on technology-based solutions. Costain’s 
unique and focused ‘Engineering 
Tomorrow’ strategy has successfully 
positioned the business as one of 
only a few companies able to provide 
those solutions.
Costain is continuing to grow its skills and 
capabilities and this is enabling the Group 
to win substantial new contracts and 
contract extensions thereby maintaining 
a high quality order book.
Dividend
The Group has a progressive dividend 
policy, targeting an ongoing dividend 
cover of around two times underlying 
earnings, translating strong performance 
directly in to shareholder value.
Our performance this year, and our 
confidence in the opportunities for 
future growth, has resulted in the 
Board recommending a final dividend 
of 8.4 pence per share (2015: 7.25 pence) 
which, if approved, will be paid on 
19 May 2017 to shareholders on the 
register as at 7 April 2017. This represents 
an increase of 15% in the total dividend 
for the year to 12.7 pence per share 
(2015: 11.0 pence).  
FINAL DIVIDEND
8.4 pence per share
to bring the total for the full year 
to 12.7 pence per share
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
STRATEGIC REPORT
08 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Pension
A triennial actuarial review of the Costain 
defined benefit scheme, reflecting 
updated market and liability assumptions, 
has been carried out as at 31 March 2016 
and a plan agreed with the scheme Trustee 
regarding the associated deficit recovery. 
The amount of annual total contributions 
has been agreed at the same overall level 
as previously established, based on the 
Group’s dividend matching policy.
Governance
I have joined a company with a Board 
committed to the highest standards 
of governance and a first-rate executive 
team implementing a robust strategy. 
Our Annual Report will set out and 
explain the processes we have put 
in place to deliver long-term success 
whilst also ensuring that the Company 
complies with all applicable laws and 
regulations and meets the requirements 
of our shareholders and their 
representative bodies. 
We measure the Board’s effectiveness 
by holding an externally facilitated 
evaluation of Board performance every 
three years and take appropriate action 
where required. The most recent external 
evaluation was in 2014 and, in the interim, 
we undertake annual internal follow-up 
reviews to ensure that we are delivering 
agreed actions.
Board and people
I joined the Board and succeeded David 
Allvey as Chairman at the conclusion of the 
Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2016. 
David had been Chairman for seven years, 
and on behalf of everyone at Costain, 
I would like to thank him for the substantial 
role he played, and we wish him and his 
family all the very best for the future.
The success of any company is down to 
the quality of its leadership and the depth 
of talented and skilled people throughout 
the organisation.
On behalf of the Board, I would also like 
to thank all of Costain’s people for their 
commitment, dedication and hard work. 
The strong result we have achieved this 
year would not be possible without them.
Corporate citizenship
Costain takes seriously its wider corporate 
responsibility and the role the business 
plays in society. That corporate perspective 
is also integral to the development of 
long-term relationships with our blue-
chip customers who increasingly place a 
demonstrable commitment to corporate 
responsibility high on their selection 
criteria for preferred suppliers. 
Outlook
Our major customers are committed to 
spending billions of pounds to improve 
people’s lives by enhancing the UK’s 
energy, water and transportation 
infrastructures. In order to deliver solutions 
to their increasingly complex requirements, 
Costain will continue to provide the 
broadest range of innovative integrated 
services and technology-based solutions. 
The Group’s continuing success is, 
therefore, the direct result of its 
‘Engineering Tomorrow’ strategy and the 
deliberate acceleration of growth, both 
organically and by targeted acquisition. 
Costain is well-positioned to take 
advantage of the opportunities that lie 
immediately ahead and this, combined 
with the good visibility we have over the 
medium term, reinforces our confidence 
for the future.
That confidence is reflected in the 
recommendation to increase the total 
dividend for the year by 15% and I look 
forward to reporting on future progress.
Dr Paul Golby CBE 
|
 Chairman
28 February 2017
TECHNOLOGY-BASED 
SOLUTIONS
We will continue to 
provide the broadest 
range of innovative 
integrated services 
and technology-based 
solutions.
HIGH QUALITY 
ORDER BOOK
We have continued 
to grow our skills and 
capabilities which 
enabled us to win 
substantial new contracts 
and contract extensions.
 
INFR ASTRUCTURE  
INVESTMENT
Our customers are 
committed to multi-billion 
pound infrastructure 
investment programmes.
 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016  09
STRATEGIC REPORT  |  GOVERNANCE  |  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  OTHER INFORMATION
