 Our purpose at Costain is to 
improve people’s lives by deploying 
technology-based engineering 
solutions to meet urgent national 
needs across the UK’s energy, water 
and transportation infrastructures.”
Andrew Wylie CBE | Chief Executive
Our purpose at Costain is to 
improve people’s lives by deploying 
technology-based engineering 
solutions to meet urgent national 
needs across the UK’s energy, water 
and transportation infrastructures. 
I am pleased to report on another good 
year, during which we delivered a strong 
overall result, continued to accelerate 
the growth of the business through 
investing in our skills and capabilities, 
maintained our market leading position 
and secured a record amount of work 
for the following year. 
Strong trading performance
Revenue, including the Group’s share 
of joint ventures and associates, for the 
year increased 26% to £1,658.0 million 
(2015: £1,316.5 million).
Group underlying operating profit 
increased 24% to £41.1 million 
(2015: £33.2 million).
Underlying profit before tax was 
£37.5 million (2015: £29.9 million), and 
underlying basic earnings per share 
increased to 31.5 pence (2015: 25.1 
pence). Reported profit before tax was 
£30.9 million (2015: £26.0 million) and 
reported earnings per share were 
25.7 pence (2015: 21.8 pence).
Although we have two core operating and 
reporting divisions within our business 
(Infrastructure and Natural Resources) 
we have continued to implement our 
‘One Costain’ philosophy which enables 
us to constantly focus our resources 
on identifying and securing the most 
attractive business opportunities across 
the markets in which we operate.
The Infrastructure division delivered 
increases in revenue and operating profit 
and maintained a record order book. 
The Natural Resources division saw an 
increase in revenue with the overall result 
impacted by further costs in relation to 
the legacy Greater Manchester Waste 
contract awarded in 2007, as detailed 
in the Divisional review.
Costain finished the year with a strong 
net cash position of £140.2 million 
(2015: 108.2 million) reflecting positive 
timing of receipts at the period end. This is 
after significant further investment in the 
Group’s strategic development including 
the £17 million acquisition in July 2016 of 
Simulation Systems Limited (SSL), which 
has been fully integrated and which will 
be earnings enhancing in 2017.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
£1,122.5m
£960.0m
£1,316.5m
£1,658.0m
Revenue (including share of joint 
ventures and associates)
2016
2015
2014
2013
£1,658.0m
STRATEGIC REPORT
10 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Accelerating growth: investing in 
‘Engineering Tomorrow’
Our performance is the result of our 
unique, focused and continually evolving 
‘Engineering Tomorrow’ strategy which 
has successfully positioned the business 
to provide the range of innovative 
integrated services demanded by our 
major customers who are spending billions 
of pounds on projects, underpinned 
by legislation, regulation or essential 
capital spend in the UK, upgrading and 
renewing the country’s energy, water and 
transportation infrastructures. 
Through increasing the capacity of road 
and rail infrastructure networks, improving 
the security of water and power supplies 
and enhancing the service provided to 
consumers, Costain is playing a key role 
in enhancing the lives of millions of people 
across the country.
Additionally, the Group’s blue-chip 
customers’ increasingly complex 
requirements to ensure future-proofed 
capacity, high quality service, security of 
supply and efficiency in delivery present 
numerous opportunities which demand 
an ever greater emphasis on innovative 
engineering and technology-based 
solutions. We have previously referred 
to the revolution taking place in the 
deployment of technology and this is 
gathering momentum as our customers 
increasingly recognise it as a major 
facilitator in the delivery of infrastructure. 
Costain is, and intends to remain, at the 
forefront of that revolution. 
Following the referendum vote in June, 
there has been no adverse impact on 
Costain. We have noted the increased 
emphasis from the Government on 
the vital role infrastructure plays in 
promoting economic growth and an allied 
commitment to investment in key sectors, 
including technology, to ensure that the 
country continues to compete on the 
global stage. This presents Costain with 
additional opportunity.
Consequently, we are reinforcing our 
strategic focus on our major customers 
who are already committed to spending 
billions of pounds addressing critical 
UK infrastructure needs and we will 
continue to accelerate the growth of the 
business, investing both organically and 
by acquisition, in people and skills and 
in innovation and capabilities. 
In July, we successfully acquired SSL to 
enhance further the range of technology-
led solutions we can provide to our 
customers. SSL, established in 1979 and 
with 165 people, provides integrated 
hardware and software-based solutions 
across a broad spectrum of traffic 
monitoring and management solutions 
with the potential for wider application 
across our customer groups. The business 
has now been fully integrated into the 
Group and is performing well.
750
chartered professionals across 
a wide range of disciplines
+200 graduates
4,100 people
1,200 of those are now in 
technology, advisory or 
design roles
1   Before other items; amortisation 
of acquired intangible assets and 
employment related and other 
deferred consideration.
+120 apprentices
£41.1m
Underlying operating proﬁt
1
2016
2015
2014
2013
£41.1m
£28.7m
£27.4m
£33.2m
 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016  11
STRATEGIC REPORT  |  GOVERNANCE  |  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  OTHER INFORMATION Combining an award winning team 
and leading-edge innovation
The success of Costain is built on the 
strength and experience of our team 
and it is essential that we continue to 
attract, retain and develop the best talent. 
Costain today has over 4,100 people and, 
reflecting the development and changing 
nature of the business, over 1,200 of those 
are now in technology, advisory or design 
service roles. 
At Costain there are over 750 chartered 
professionals across a wide range of 
disciplines. Additionally, there are over 
200 graduates on our award-winning 
graduate development programme 
and 120 apprentices on a structured 
development programme undergoing 
training across the business.
Across the Group, there has been over 
50,000 hours of training and development 
in the year. A number of the members 
of the senior leadership team have 
participated in executive education 
programmes during the year at leading 
business schools including Harvard 
and INSEAD. 
In order to ensure we continue to generate 
thought leadership on key issues, we are 
currently sponsoring 13 PhD students 
undertaking leading-edge research 
at renowned universities including 
Cambridge, Imperial College, Edinburgh 
and Manchester. 
Along with our engineering centre in 
Manchester, where over 300 of our people 
are based, we currently have research and 
development relationships with 15 leading 
universities and with whom we continue to 
progress a number of patent applications.
This investment in people and R&D 
continued to deliver a number of exciting 
innovations including:
• Advanced Vehicle Technology: 
Automatic vehicle recognition 
technology for the management 
of vehicles, removing the need for 
traditional toll booths and automatic 
crossing charging and therefore reducing 
traffic congestion; 
•  Analytics and predictive services: our 
technology is being used to manage 
critical infrastructure when experiencing 
extreme events; 
• The deployment of workforce and 
workflow technology to the delivery of 
complicated maintenance contracts. 
Through the use of this technology 
we are improving the local customer 
experience, improving event 
management and improving efficiency 
of operations through automatic 
workforce management; 
• Capturing asset operational data and 
maintenance records, through the use 
of algorithms, to optimise maintenance 
and operations achieving significant 
reductions in both capex and opex costs.
Record order book providing visibility 
of earnings
As a consequence of its strong customer 
relationships, and its engineering and 
technology-led solutions, Costain secured 
a significant number of new orders and 
contract extensions including: 
• Development of the M4 corridor around 
Newport for the Welsh Government;
• Peterborough and Huntingdon 
compressor station upgrade for 
National Grid; 
• Contract for the East works package of 
the Thames Tideway Tunnel in London;
• High Speed 2 South Enabling 
Works contract;
• Appointment to the Decommissioning 
Delivery Partnership framework by 
Sellafield Ltd;
• Three asset maintenance support 
contracts for Highways England; 
• Transport for London’s Surface Transport 
Major Projects Framework.
As a result, the Group’s order book at 
the year-end was maintained at the 
record level of £3.9 billion (31 December 
2015: £3.9 billion). 
The Group has increased its revenues 
secured for 2017 to over £1.2 billion (as 
at 31 December 2015: over £1.1 billion 
secured for 2016). The order book also 
provides good medium-term visibility with 
£2.7 billion of revenues secured for 2018 
and beyond. In addition to the order book, 
the Group has maintained its preferred 
bidder position at over £500 million, and is 
actively seeking to secure further new work 
across all of its target markets. 
£3.9 bn
Order book maintained 
at record level
50,000 hours
of training and development 
in the year
These are exciting times 
with billions of pounds 
being spent upgrading 
and renewing the 
country’s energy, water 
and transportation 
infrastructures. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
CONTINUED
STRATEGIC REPORT
12 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016 We started 2017 with 
a maintained record 
order book giving 
good visibility over the 
medium term and we 
look forward to the 
future with confidence.
The strategic nature of Costain’s 
long-term customer relationships has 
once again ensured that over 90% of the 
order book comprises repeat business. 
We deliberately work with major customers 
who utilise target cost, cost reimbursable 
contracts as the most appropriate contract 
form to deliver their complex and changing 
requirements. As a consequence, over 90% 
of the order book is in this lower-risk form 
of contract. 
Given the changing nature of the business 
and the evolving profile of the order book, 
we will also increasingly use consultancy-
related indicators, such as utilisation.
Costain Cares
The management of Safety, Health and 
Environment is a core value at Costain. 
The Group’s Accident Frequency Rate 
(AFR) in the year was 0.09, which although 
slightly behind the best-ever performance 
of 0.08 achieved in 2015, still compares 
well with our industry peer group. 
We received a total of 21 RoSPA 
awards in 2016 including two Orders 
of Distinction, two President’s 
Awards and the International Dilmum 
Environmental Trophy. 
Notwithstanding this industry leading 
safety performance, the Group still had 
a number of serious safety incidents in 
the year, including a fatality on the M1 
J16-19 Managed Motorway contract, 
which reinforced the need for continuous 
learnings, vigilance and improvement in 
our safety performance.
We remain committed to further 
improvement in our safety performance 
and are implementing a strategy to reduce 
by a further 50% the number of incidents 
in the business by the end of 2018. 
Our customers place great emphasis 
on the good citizen credentials of their 
strategic supply chain partners. Given the 
profile of their businesses and the nature of 
the activities we undertake, how we deliver 
our services is as important to them as 
what we do. Increasingly, customers insist 
that their tier-one providers share their 
corporate and social responsibility values 
and failure to do this would mean a failure 
to pre-qualify for future work. 
The Costain Charitable Foundation 
is the focus of the range of charitable 
and community work we undertake, 
both individually and as a Group. 
Following the success in 2015 of the 
‘Costain 150 Challenge’, which raised 
over £1.1 million for good causes, we set 
a challenge for 2016 of 10,000 hours of 
volunteering by Costain people and I am 
delighted to report that we achieved a 
total of over 12,000 hours. 
Outlook
These are exciting times with billions 
of pounds being spent upgrading and 
renewing the country’s energy, water and 
transportation infrastructures. 
There is a revolution in the deployment 
of technology-led innovative solutions 
to meet the increasingly complex 
requirements of our national infrastructure 
needs and we are continuing rapidly to 
transform our business to be at the heart 
of the opportunity this presents.
We started 2017 with a maintained record 
order book giving good visibility over the 
medium term and we look forward to the 
future with confidence.
Andrew Wyllie CBE 
| 
Chief Executive
28 February 2017
12,000 hours
volunteered by Costain people
 
 COSTAIN GROUP PLC  |  ANNUAL REPORT 2016  13
STRATEGIC REPORT  |  GOVERNANCE  |  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  |  OTHER INFORMATION
