 My first year as chairman coincided with a particularly 
challenging market backdrop. Overall the property market 
was destabilised by fiscal change and heightened economic 
uncertainty, which inevitably had an impact on transactions. 
Changes to the stamp duty regime, the UK’s decision to leave 
the European Union and proposed changes to tenants’ fees all 
had an effect on the sector and the Group. Property will always 
be a part of the national conversation and how the industry reacts 
to these conditions will remain a key focus for a wide variety of 
stakeholders going forward.
Tough market conditions can act as a catalyst for necessary 
change and true leaders show their strength by responding, 
transforming their business model to build and ultimately to 
thrive. I have been impressed at how quickly Countrywide has 
faced into these challenges and how the executive team has 
responded, by accelerating our transformation agenda.
2016 results delivered a modest growth in income to £737.0 million 
(2015: £733.7 million), despite the unpredictable residential 
sales market. EBITDA decreased by 26% to £83.5 million 
(2015: £113.0 million), and statutory operating profit by 46%, 
as a result of a reduced sales transaction market and investment 
in key areas of our business, impacting underlying profitability.
The Company is at a critical point in its evolution, and is determined 
to reinforce its leadership by developing a business that better 
reflects the needs of our customers. We accept that the market 
will continue to be constrained and that we need to transform 
our business, but we do so from a position of strength. We have 
genuine national reach, a broad service offering and a portfolio 
of high quality, well known brands. 
Building for 
the future
In summary
• 
Diversified portfolio helped contribute 
to maintaining revenue against a very 
challenging backdrop
• 
Tough market conditions are a catalyst for 
accelerating our transformation agenda 
• 
Executive team is committed to building 
a customer focused company, driving 
and delivering efficiency and creating 
a sustainable and profitable business 
The Company is at a critical 
point in its evolution, and is 
determined to reinforce its 
leadership by developing a 
business that better reflects 
the needs of our customers.
Strategic report
Our chairman’s review
04 As we transform, the executive team is committed to building 
a customer focused company, driving and delivering efficiency 
and maintaining a sustainable and profitable business. Some of the 
decisions taken this year have put us ahead on this journey, not least:
• 
defining a new operating model which will include resizing 
the retail estate, updating the technology platform and driving 
down our cost base
• 
implementing a multichannel offering through a comprehensive 
digital, phone and high street presence
• 
seizing the growth opportunity represented in the financial 
services sector
• 
pausing all M&A activity after the first quarter of 2016 and 
focusing primarily on organic growth, delivering what we do 
already, but better.
As previously stated, we commenced a strategic review of our 
commercial business, Lambert Smith Hampton, during 2016 
to consider how best to maximise value in that sector over the 
coming years. That review continues and we anticipate it will 
conclude later this year.
Despite the uncertain market environment, we remain committed 
to reducing our leverage and at the same time enable the management 
team to future proof the business and exploit growth opportunities. 
To that end, and following consultations with our major shareholders, 
the Board has decided to make a small placing of up to 9.99% of 
our share capital available via a cash box structure today. In addition, 
we have reviewed our dividend policy and have rebased that to 
between 30 and 35% of earnings going forward. No final dividend 
will be paid for 2016.
I am confident that we are building a business for the long term, 
working towards a more resilient and efficient operating model 
that promotes organic growth through customer retention and by 
building on our unique strengths to be the best in the market at 
what we do.
Peter Long
Chairman
9 March 2017
Recommended
more than any other company in the 
property sector.
Recognised
as one of the best places to work 
in the UK.
Transforming
the reputation of our industry.
Celebrated
for excellent sustainable 
financial performance.
Our vision
Our values
1
Personal
We are a people business. We care 
about our customers and each 
other. We have fun.
Straightforward
We keep it simple, dealing with 
the complicated things so our 
customers don’t have to.
Passionate
We love working with property and 
we work hard, knowing what we do 
really matters.
Responsible
We do the right thing. We listen, 
take time to understand and always 
tell the truth.
2
3
4
Annual Report 2016 Countrywide plc 05
Strategic report
