 Crawshaw Group Plc
Annual Report           52 weeks  ended 31 January 2016
04
Chief Executive 
Officer’s Review
“We have successfully delivered across all 
strategic pillars during a transformative 
2015 and we look forward to a year of rapid 
expansion and further profitable growth. ”
Introduction
Since joining the business in March 2015, I continue 
to be extremely impressed with our colleagues who 
are totally committed to maintaining the values of the 
Company and ensuring we consistently offer great 
quality fresh meat and food-to-go at affordable prices.
I have also been impressed by the way the team have 
embraced the changes and challenges during this 
transformative year in developing the infrastructure  
to support our rapid growth strategy. We are now well 
positioned to leverage our unique retail concept and 
accelerate the pace of rollout to establish Crawshaws 
as a national brand.
Transformative year
We have made significant progress during 
2015 in developing the capability, structure and 
discipline throughout the business to channel our 
entrepreneurial spirit in delivering consistent results  
for our customers, shareholders and colleagues. 
The preparations in delivering our growth plans has 
required strategic investments in key roles and skills 
within the Executive T eam to achieve the optimal 
balance in experience and expertise. Our Plc Board 
has been strengthened with the appointment of Alan 
Richardson as Chief Financial Officer and Kevin Boyd 
as Chief Commercial Officer, and our Senior T eam has 
been strengthened with key appointments in HR, 
Training, Facilities, Retail Operations, IT and Finance. 
Additionally, we recruit and train the teams required  
to staff our new stores ahead of each opening with 
the result that each new stores trades profitably from 
its very first day.
These appointments represent an important 
investment ahead of our accelerated growth to 
ensure that we are capable of delivering this plan 
with structure, control and discipline. Given that this 
overhead is exclusively focused around the opening  
of new stores, they are regarded as “accelerated 
opening costs” . It is therefore important to highlight 
and exclude these to show the underlying 
performance when evaluating the profitability and 
returns of the legacy business, which demonstrates 
that our stores continue to be very profitable, with 
each store converting £1m annual sales into an 
EBITDA contribution of 14%.
As we open more and more stores, the accelerated 
opening costs, and indeed the fixed element of our 
central overhead, will become a smaller proportion  
of the whole.
Revenue growth
For the twelve months to 31 January 2016, Group 
revenue increased by 51% from £24.6m to £37.1m. 
This strong growth was supported both by 
contributions from our LFL stores and from our 17  
new stores in the year, which includes the eleven 
stores acquired from Gabbotts Farm Ltd (which  
have been rebranded Crawshaws).
LFL sales were +1.8% for the full year, with H2 LFL sales 
of +2.6% building on the +1% LFL sales in H1. This 
achievement was very pleasing, particularly given the 
disruption and challenging high street footfall patterns 
caused by the prolonged adverse weather conditions 
in the North of England throughout November and 
December. And it was also particularly pleasing given 
that we were able to further increase our gross margin.
We have continued this growth momentum into  
the new financial year with total Group sales in the  
first seven weeks of the new financial year increasing 
by +64% and LFL also performing positively at +0.1% 
for the same period, again with a further improvement  
in gross margin.
New capabilities and opportunities
Looking at the opportunities ahead, we have 
identified the key elements in successfully delivering 
our accelerated rollout: 
(a) Acquiring the right sites at the right price
(b) Converting sites efficiently with a shop fit-out  
 that meets our high operational standards
(c) Ensuring that we have the trained colleagues  
 delivering the great Crawshaws’ customer  
 service
(d) A logistics and production capability to ensure  
 our stores have sufficient product to serve  
 our customers
We have made significant progress in developing  
the capability to deliver on all these fronts through  
our newly strengthened management structure.  
We have also developed and expanded key strategic 
partnerships within the areas of property, facilities, 
recruitment and supply chain. This approach has 
quickly become established in the business and  
is already demonstrating our capability to deliver  
a run-rate target of one new store opening every  
three weeks.
Strategic pillars for 2016
1. Driving profitable sales
We continue to work very hard to give our customers 
great quality fresh meat at affordable prices, 
which drives their loyalty and underpins our sales 
momentum.
During the course of the year we have made great 
progress in developing and standardising our retail 
proposition across the entire estate. This has included 
the successful relaunch of our fresh meat range and 
our legendary fixed price multi-save offers, as well as 
providing extra value to customers through our new 
weekly “Manager’ s Meaty Cut“ promotions.
Strategic pillars for 2016
1. Driving profitable sales
• Successful relaunch of fresh meat range
• Factory producing record levels  
 of premium homemade quality produce
• Expanded food-to-go with the  
 introduction of butchers kitchen brand
• New marketing activities and developing  
 social media presence 
2. Disciplined growth strategy
• 1 7 stores added in FY 2016
• Expanded geographical coverage  
 into North West
• Pipeline targeting heartlands and new  
 catchments in Birmingham and Midlands
• Location strategy in line with current  
 portfolio including a standalone  
 factory shop 
3. New store performance
• New stores performing in line with  
 expectations
• Stores trade profitably from opening
• Customer insight indicates net promoter  
 score of 94
• New marketing initiatives to accelerate  
 loyalty build
T rading stores at year end
39 
Net promoter score of
94%  Strategic Report Governance
Financial  
Statements
05 Crawshaw Group Plc
Annual Report           52 weeks  ended 31 January 2016
With our factory now producing record-levels of 
premium quality homemade produce, almost 20 
tonnes per week, we will continue with the capital 
expenditure in our factory production equipment 
to ensure we have the capability to further increase 
our fantastic award winning homemade premium 
fresh meat offer. With this investment and our internal 
butchery expertise, we will introduce a widened 
premium range of lean steak burgers, premium pork 
and apple burgers, a variety of new recipe sausages, 
lean steak meatballs, lean steak kebabs and grill sticks 
and much more. This unique vertically integrated 
production capability allows us to continue to offer 
a very high quality product at value prices in large 
volumes.
In parallel, we plan to further expand and enhance 
our food-to-go range with the introduction of the 
“Butchers Kitchen“ brand, which provides the platform 
to showcase the quality of our fresh meat produce 
presented to our customers, cooked and ready  
to eat on-the-go.
In addition to these profitable sales opportunities,  
we will continue to invest in other key initiatives in 
 the coming year to maintain existing customer loyalty 
and achieve new customer acquisitions, such as new 
marketing activities and developing a social media 
presence.
2. Disciplined growth strategy
The core part of the Group’ s strategy is to rapidly 
increase the number of stores and spread the 
geographical presence of the Crawshaws brand  
in a disciplined manner.
We have successfully added 17 more stores to the 
Group during the last year taking our portfolio to 39 
stores, which has also expanded our geographical 
coverage to the North West of England.
Our pipeline strategy will also see us adding new 
stores in catchment areas across our heartlands of 
Y orkshire and the North West. Furthermore, we will 
be opening small clusters of stores in entirely new 
catchments in the Midlands and Birmingham areas. 
The locations of our stores will continue to be a 
representative spread of our current portfolio, which 
will see us opening a blend of stores on the high 
streets, in shopping centre locations and will include  
a standalone factory shop.
3. New stores performance
Our recently opened new stores are performing in 
line with expectations, contributing profitably from 
day one and are further expected to grow in sales 
and contribution as they mature. The sales profile of 
our new stores is shaped such that food-to-go sales 
reach maturity very soon after opening as passing 
customers quickly build visits into their routines 
enjoying the quality “Butcher’ s Kitchen“ range. On fresh 
meat, we experience a gradual increase as customers 
experiment with the range and build confidence  
and loyalty over a slightly longer time period. 
Our customers are very loyal, and recent customer 
insight data indicates a market leading Net Promoter 
Score (NPS) of 94. This data has indicated that those 
customers who buy fresh meat tend to reward us 
with the majority of their meat spend – we have 
therefore developed a series of new store opening 
marketing initiatives to incentivise customers to try 
the full breadth of our fresh meat offer and accelerate 
the pace with which we are able to convert them 
into loyal fresh meat shoppers. This approach was first 
trialed in our 40th store opening at Birchwood and 
initial results are also very encouraging.
Our people make the difference
As part of our listening, our customers have told us 
that they choose Crawshaws over other destinations 
due to a combination of quality, price and service. 
We are a people business and our 562 colleagues 
continue to be dedicated to creating the environment 
and atmosphere that our customers really value. 
Our achievements would not be possible without 
our colleagues and I am immensely proud of their 
commitment and passion in delivering amazing  
value to our customers every day.
Looking forward
Looking forward to the year ahead, whilst the wider 
economic climate looks likely to remain challenging, 
we have demonstrated that we are well positioned 
to succeed against this backdrop. We will continue 
to manage the business tightly during this exciting 
period of accelerated growth and we will remain 
focused on ensuring our retail proposition delights  
the customers that choose or need to shop with us.
We have already opened five new stores in the current 
year (in Birchwood, Blackburn, Cannock, Warrington 
and Widnes), and have a pipeline at various stages.  
We are therefore confident of meeting our target  
of 15 new stores for the year.
We look to the future with great confidence  
and excitement.
Noel Collett 
Chief Executive Officer 
26 April 2016
