 02
Crossrider plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Chairman’s  
statement
2016 has been a year of both change 
and progress for Crossrider. In June, we 
commenced a major restructuring to 
streamline our business and simplify our 
reporting structure going forward. The 
Company’s restructuring has resulted 
in achieving significant cost reductions 
and enabled us to pursue a new strategic 
direction, focused on expanding 
our digital distribution platform.
Strengthening the Board
In May of this year, Crossrider announced 
the appointment of Ido Erlichman as 
Chief Executive Officer (‘CEO’). Ido’s 
appointment has been pivotal in reshaping 
our business as we transition from a pure 
ad-tech business to a leading software 
and digital distribution platform.
Ido has in-depth understanding of the 
market in which we operate and brings 
significant experience in the technology 
sector garnered through roles in private 
equity, consulting and finance and past 
experience in his previous CEO role 
with turning around Visual DNA.
Don Elgie
Non-Executive Chairman
2016 has been a year of both change and progress for Crossrider . 
In June, we commenced a major restructuring to streamline our business 
and simplify our reporting structure going forward. The Company’s 
restructuring has resulted in achieving significant cost reductions and 
enabled us to pursue a new strategic direction, focused on expanding  
our digital distribution platform.
Additionally, Crossrider has appointed 
Moran Laufer as Chief Financial 
Officer (‘CFO’). Moran has been a key 
member of the finance team since 
2012 and successfully supported 
the Group’s admission to AIM.
In the short space of seven months, 
our management team has already been 
able to implement significant strategic 
change and we believe it is a very exciting 
time in the Company’s transformation.
720,000
Paying customers   
03
 Crossrider plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
New strategic direction
The strategic overhaul of Crossrider 
has resulted in stable growth in our 
areas of focus – the App Distribution 
Division and the Media Division. Since the 
beginning of 2016 we have been winding 
down our operations in the Web Apps 
vertical and management is now solely 
focused on our two core divisions.
Crossrider anticipated a decline in the  
Web Apps sector due to changes in the 
market environment. As a result, the 
Company shifted its focus away from the 
Web Apps sector in the period, including 
the browser extension platform, which 
has been outsourced through a licensing 
agreement since January 2016. We expect 
the year to 31 December 2017 to be the 
last year of reporting for this segment.
Foundation for growth
Crossrider continues to capitalise on 
opportunities consistent with our strategic 
vision and is confident in the Company’s 
ability to accelerate the growth trajectory 
of its digital distribution platform, 
particularly through acquisitions.
The Company’s expansion in this sector 
started successfully with the acquisition of 
DriverAgent in October. Crossrider has now 
completed the integration of DriverAgent 
and anticipates its contribution to revenue 
and earnings to materialise in the coming 
year. Importantly, this acquisition has 
proven the efficacy of our platform. The 
Board expects to deliver further growth 
in this division through larger synergistic 
acquisitions in the coming year.
We now feel we have a solid foundation 
in place from which we can drive future 
growth and continue to strengthen 
and expand the business.
The significant progress made by the Group 
in the course of the year would not have 
been possible without the talented and 
dedicated Crossrider team who continue to 
be key in executing on our strategic plan.
Don Elgie
Non-Executive Chairman
13 March 2017
28.3% 
Segment margins 
