 04
Crossrider plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Chief Executive  
Officer’s review
2016 has been a transformational 
year for Crossrider, during which the 
Company has successfully executed a 
three-step strategic plan to reposition 
the business as a leading software 
and digital distribution platform.
Having restructured the business, the 
Board believes the Company is now ideally 
placed to capitalise on opportunities to 
grow organically through investment in our 
in-house capabilities and through selective 
acquisitions. The Group’s reshaped 
operations are focused on combining 
our strong digital media capabilities 
with our growing digital product 
platform, with a particular emphasis 
on serving the cyber security arena.
In the course of the year, management’s 
primary challenge was to restructure 
and strengthen the Company’s core 
operations and we are pleased to report 
that we have been able to achieve 
$2.0 milllion in annualised savings as a 
result of this process and, in addition, 
establish two core business divisions 
– App Distribution and Media.
Secondly, management was focused on 
achieving organic growth in these core 
divisions and we are delighted that our 
App Distribution segment has achieved 
20 per cent growth in the period while 
our Media division has remained stable.
The third component of our strategy 
was to lay the foundations for future 
expansion through bolt-on and strategic 
acquisitions, building on our existing 
and refined business model. We have 
successfully executed on this, announcing 
in October the highly synergistic 
acquisition of DriverAgent, a leading 
device driver search and update service, 
and we continue to actively assess 
acquisition opportunities in 2017.
We have also taken further steps to 
strengthen our cash-generative activities, 
improving working capital discipline 
while still providing quality service to 
all of our customers and partners, 
which has resulted in an increase in 
the cash generated from operations.
All of the initiatives that have been 
implemented are in support of our 
strategic decision to expand our 
existing digital distribution platform 
and extend our product offering, 
particularly in the cyber security space.
2016 has been a transformational year for Crossrider, during which the 
Company has successfully executed a three-step strategic plan to reposition 
the business as a leading software and digital distribution platform.
Ido Erlichman
Chief Executive Officer
Evolving our business model to  
an online distribution and product hub
Leveraging tech 
capabilities
Strong technology Online products Online distribution Online digital product 
distribution company
Using distribution 
capabilities
Expanding product 
portfolio  
05
 Crossrider plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
STRATEGIC  
REPORT
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE 
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
App Distribution
App distribution product hub,  
generating revenues from end users 
purchasing digital products online
In the App Distribution division we 
are now offering two main products: 
Reimage computer repair software 
and service, and the DriverAgent driver 
repair software and service. We have 
720,000 paying subscribers around 
the world. Our top three markets 
are the US, UK and Germany.
In the last year we have strengthened our 
platform so it now provides an unrivalled 
and enhanced customer experience 
and lifetime value, further improving our 
customer service metrics. We believe 
that this provides us with a competitive 
advantage in the marketplace and a strong 
foundation from which to expand both our 
product offering and geographic reach.
In addition, we now have better control 
over our distribution, as we have initiated 
the process of bringing our customer 
service in-house, which allows us to 
improve the quality of our processes. We 
have also bolstered our in-house media 
buying capabilities enabling us to diversify 
our media sources, resulting in increased 
traffic volume, quality and market share. 
We expect these changes to extend 
customer lifetime value, enable margin 
consolidation and improve customer 
retention, thereby increasing profitability.
In October, we announced the acquisition 
of DriverAgent, which is designed for use 
with desktop computers, tablets and mobile 
devices, to identify outdated drivers. This 
acquisition was highly complementary 
to our existing App Distribution hub and 
is now fully integrated into the Group.
The DriverAgent acquisition demonstrates 
our progress in successfully expanding our 
portfolio through our digital product hub 
and we continue to look to expand this 
vertical, predominantly through acquisition 
and third-party strategic partnerships.
Commenced the execution  
of our M&A strategy
Business model 
transformation
Larger strategic 
M&A
Smaller bolt-on M&A 
e.g. DriverAgent
• Portfolio of products
• User base
• Products to expand 
the portfolio
• Technology supporting the 
distribution funnel
• Immediate earnings
• Strong growth trajectory
• Scale
• Add immediate value
• Tactical deals to enhance 
organic growth
M&A is vital to achieve critical scale 06
Crossrider plc  
Annual Report and Accounts 2016  
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
continued
“The acquisition of  
the DriverAgent was 
highly complementary 
to our existing App 
Distribution platform”
Media
Marketing technology platforms and ad 
agency activities, generating revenue 
through agreements with media partners
In the Media division we work with 
companies primarily in Europe and provide 
them with end-to-end media and advertising 
technologies services. These include media 
buying, ad agency technologies and services 
and ad serving technologies as well as 
programmatic video buying capabilities.
In this division, we have expanded 
our foothold in the evolving media and 
advertising space by leveraging our strong 
mobile capabilities. We have successfully 
entered new markets and broadened 
our current offering into the native, social 
and content distribution channels.
We continue to develop our advertising 
technologies and supporting tools 
to address the constantly evolving 
marketplace and ensure we optimise 
our technologies for our media buying 
services. This is all consistent with our 
Company-wide strategy to maintain 
best-in-class online distribution 
funnels for our digital products.
Current trading and outlook
This year we have made significant 
progress in the turnaround of the 
business, reducing our cost base and 
realigning our strategic priorities. We 
believe these significant changes have 
repositioned the Company, enabling us to 
complete the turnaround and grow our 
core divisions in the medium-term. The full 
impact of the turnaround and subsequent 
benefits will be realised in the coming year.
In 2017, while we will continue to drive 
organic growth opportunities, we will also 
focus on strategic acquisitions designed to 
broaden our exposure to SaaS revenues, 
mainly in the cyber security vertical. 
We are currently exploring the viability 
of a number of companies, evaluating 
them along the following criteria:
 › Sizeable and growing user base
 › Recurring revenue sales model
 › Strong technological team
 › Ability to deliver strong synergies with 
both the Group’s media capabilities and 
digital distribution platform
We have made a strong start to 2017 and 
will continue to drive profitability and 
long-term future growth for the Group.
Ido Erlichman
Chief Executive Officer
13 March 2017
