 Even though the year ended on a high note
with December delivering the only month of
organic sales growth during the year, I was
more than delighted to put the new 2003
calendar on my wall. Although likely to be
tough, the prospects for 2003 are brighter if
for no other reason than the actions we took
in 2002 to reduce costs and strengthen our
operations are now in place. 
2002 was not a kind year for businesses in the
engineering sector. Bodycote turned in its
lowest ever margins, yet they were respectable
in comparison to our peers. The large drop 
in demand from the Commercial Aerospace,
Power Generation and Oil & Gas sectors was
greater than expected and is well reported.
Automotive demand was ﬁrm but margins
were difﬁcult due to cost and price pressures.
Our sales decreased by 8%, however
information from trade associations indicates
our market share remained constant or
improved. We focused our efforts on optimising
yield and utilisation and improved cash ﬂow
from our existing facilities. We re-emphasised
the basic operational model that historically
delivered superior margins by running facilities
at high utilisation, selling at competitive yield
rates in productive reliable equipment.
Benchmarking of Key Performance Indicators
(KPIs) is increasingly being applied and the
replication of best in class methods around
the Group is improving efﬁciency.
Our operational structure was modiﬁed to
merge Heat Treatment, HIP and Metallurgical
Coatings under geographical responsibility to
gain market synergy and institute shared
services. A Senior Operating Board was
created to align our efforts in a common
direction. The plc Board was restructured to
broaden the experience base and advance
compliance with guidelines for strong corporate
governance. Communications both internally
and externally have been upgraded to provide
transparency of company actions.
By the year-end we had reduced the number
of facilities with negative Operating Proﬁts.
Over the past 18 months we combined 20
facilities and brought about a reduction of
about 800 jobs to better match capacity to
demand. We exited one joint venture in
China and will exit a second in early 2003.
Our principal challenge was to manage our
number one cost – people. We had greater
success in North America and the United
Kingdom, where labour markets are relatively
ﬂexible. The full beneﬁt of the European staff
reductions will not be felt until later in 2003.
Merging facilities is a difﬁcult and delicate task;
given our high customer retention rate in
markets with overcapacity we are pleased
with our success. We made two small bolt-on
acquisitions in Italy toward the end of the year.
Italy is the third largest manufacturing market
in Europe; these acquisitions strengthen our
operations and provide growth potential. 
Despite around £18m of previously authorised
projects we introduced stringent capital
expenditure discipline which reduced capital
investments in 2002 to £54m against a budget
of £60m. We have relocated equipment around
the Group to meet regional demand shifts.
In addition, working capital controls have
been strengthened.
Our PVD coating business is now organised
with improved technology transfer and
coordinated marketing. We won several
signiﬁcant new contracts and anticipate this
will be a continuing growth business.
Our wet coating business underwent major
rationalisation with seven facilities closed
and one signiﬁcantly downsized. The new
Gothenburg facility came on stream late in
the year and we are working hard to attract
work to this large state of the art facility. 
Advances in sharing knowledge and technology
within the group via our ‘Extranet’ are gaining
momentum and will deliver value to our
customers and employees while making us
more efﬁcient in our operations. Information
Services now have a strategy that will see us
migrate over the coming years to a common
ERP solution, which will reduce our IS cost
and provide faster and better information.
We captured outsourcing business in all SBUs
and are seeing market growth opportunities
developing from our technology transfer
initiatives and the co-ordination of our
services within each geographical region. 
HEAT TREATMENT
North America
Part of the strategy for integrating the Lindberg
acquisition (January 2001) was to consolidate
overlapping facilities. With the downturn in
demand this programme was accelerated
and broadened. 
Full time employees have been reduced by 260
with more scheduled in 2003. In addition
various group purchase contracts have been
negotiated delivering cost savings. 
As our operations become more streamlined
we are fortunate to have the right people
and systems in place to maintain both the
efﬁciency and the high quality standards
expected of us. Optimised production software
is being rolled out, together with a new
standardised Bodycote Quality System.
These systems differentiate us from competition
and provide our customers with value. 
Continuous training of our employees in
technical matters as well as safety, health
and environmental has been a high priority.
We have a number of well-qualiﬁed,
experienced employees whose expertise 
is respected in the industry and even in the
depressed market conditions these recognised
experts have provided a number of new
opportunities for 2003.
As we move forward into 2003 and beyond
it is with more conﬁdence than a year ago.
We are still highly dependent on the markets
we serve and the manufacturing economy as
a whole but assuming we see no worsening
of the current conditions we will beneﬁt from
the extensive groundwork carried out in 2002.
Central European Group 
(Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland,
Czech Republic, Hungary and Liechtenstein)
Against an uncertain background caused by
the introduction of the Euro, general elections
in Germany and economic deterioration,
2002 was a challenging year for the CEG
and our historic growth pattern has been
temporarily arrested. 
All six plants in the Czech Republic, however,
had a good year with increasing sales and
proﬁts. With the relocation of the Liberec plant,
we are ready for the growing economies in
Eastern Europe with a wide range of heat
treatment facilities, including vacuum heat
treatment, plasma nitriding and physical
vapour deposition (PVD) coating.
Bodycote’s technical ability secured a strategic
partnership outsourcing project for the heat
treatment of automotive brake pistons in
Germany and production started early in 2002.
This success resulted in an agreement for 
a second production facility with the same
customer, which will open in 2003. 
Chief Executive’s Review
Bodycote annual report 2002 3 France, Belgium and Italy (FBI)
Production facilities are being rationalised 
by the closure of four plants and transfer
and closure of non-proﬁtable processes.
This, together with the implementation of
yield and utilisation management controls,
will give us better margins. 
Staff numbers have been reduced by a total
of 98, with a further circa 100 redundancies
planned in 2003. Further improvements are also
anticipated in working capital management,
margin, and general administrative efﬁciencies. 
The improvement in our Nitrocarburising
technology stabilised our sales and produced
good development potential in that technology.
A steady increase in enquiries, trials and
contract proposals is in evidence for low-
pressure carburising, for which we should
obtain signiﬁcant sales in 2003. 
A signiﬁcant outsourcing contract for heat
treatment of gear and transmissions has
been obtained with a Japanese company
which took over a gear and transmission
manufacturing plant in France.
In aerospace, despite an overall slowdown,
we have captured new programmes for the
Euroﬁghter and Airbus 380 projects.
In September 2002 we acquired Gamma in
Italy with 3 plants located in the Brescia 
and East Milan area, to add to the existing
Gorgonzola location. Bodycote now plays 
a signiﬁcant role in this market (the third
largest heat treatment market in Europe).
We expect to use our Italian foothold to
develop PVD and Kolsterising technologies
in the important Italian tooling, component
and stainless steel markets.
United Kingdom
With a large portion of our sales coming
from the Commercial Aerospace and Power
Generation sectors we saw a large drop 
in demand.
Vacuum brazing and electron beam welding
however continued to show growth in a
difﬁcult market. Complex aerospace and
power generation assemblies can only be
manufactured cost effectively by metal
joining and Bodycote's world-class skills in
this differentiates us in this market segment.
Outsourcing activity gathered pace with four
contracts completed by negotiated closure
of in-house facilities. 
The highlight of the year was the new strategic
partnership agreement with Delphi Diesel
Systems. A new Bodycote Heat Treatment
Centre will open in March 2003 at Gillingham
to support Delphi’s operations and provide
us with geographical expansion into the
important market in the south east of England.
Rationalisation resulted in the closure of one
facility and the transfer of its equipment and
markets to other facilities. This improved
utilisation within the UK and reduced the
number of employees by 29. Geographic
transfer of work is still ongoing to maintain
efﬁcient use of furnace capacity.
With the actions taken in 2002, we are
encouraged about the outlook for our UK
operations in 2003. 
Nordic (Sweden, Denmark and Finland)
Sweden stabilised in 2002 with a focus on cost
control and reductions in investment to combat
the lower market volumes. One Strategic
Partnership facility was sold to the customer.
Corr-I-Dur, a process we developed in Germany
to provide wear and corrosion resistance
with no distortion, was introduced into the
market and is being very well received for
difﬁcult corrosion applications.
The re-organisation of Malmo (Sweden) and
Copenhagen (Denmark) continued, combining
all vacuum operations in Copenhagen and
induction activities at Malmo. This will improve
efﬁciency and reduce costs. 
Sales for 2003 will continue at a low level
until the second half, when improvement 
is forecast in the traditional diesel and
marine engine industries and in respect 
of parts for wind turbines, rock drilling 
and rock breaking machines.
Reduced activity level in Danish industry and
a new competitor started by a customer led
to a sharp decline in proﬁt at our Arhus plant.
The customer has already sold his interest in
this start up and returned to us but the new
competitor continues to disrupt market balance.
Cost reductions were implemented and 
the number of employees reduced by 12%. 
The focus on costs and quality will continue
in 2003 as we defend our market position.
2003 will be a demanding year for Nordic
Heat Treatment, although there are signs
that traditional markets will improve. 
HOT ISOSTATIC PRESSING
North America
The decline in the aerospace and power
generation markets in North America made
2002 a difﬁcult year for the HIP Group, 
as these areas represent over 60% of the
markets we serve. While a few key customers
experienced good growth, most saw a fall in
activity resulting in staff reductions. Our London,
Ohio plant was hardest hit, with a substantial
decline in HIP and related heat treatment
work directly resulting from the downturn in
power generation. Overall sales for the group
were off 7% from our performance in 2001.
In spite of the decline in worldwide HIP
markets, there were several positive
occurrences in 2002. This was the ﬁrst full
year of operation of the Densal
®
II unit in our
London, Ohio facility and sales were over 50%
in excess of budget and almost four times
sales in 2001. In our Andover, Massachusetts
plant we installed equipment necessary to
commence production of ceramic glass (ALON)
for bulletproof windscreens on military vehicles.
In addition, product sales in Andover exceeded
budget by 35% as some signiﬁcant powdered
metal billet, cladding and sputtering target
projects expanded. In 2003 we anticipate
further growth in these areas as well as the
ﬁrst ALON production components.
In Camas WA and London OH staff reductions
totaled 10%. Actions have already been
undertaken, a change in management and
other staff reductions, to underpin current
performance and ensure that customers
continue to be happy with our service.
Revival in the aerospace and power generation
markets is not expected until 2004.
Accordingly, we are focusing our attention on
opportunities for expansion of the products
area. In addition, we are actively pursuing
enquiries and test components that utilise
our Densal
®
II process. Several of these
projects are showing signiﬁcant growth. 
We have developed and are preparing for
commercialisation a new process we call
Densal
®
II + T-6 which is a combined cycle
for HIP and Heat Treatment of aluminium.
This process offers the prospects of reducing
the cost of the two separate cycles by
combining them.
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Bodycote annual report 2002 Europe
2002 was a challenging year for the European
HIP group; in particular the demand for power
generation gas turbines fell in the ﬁrst months
of 2002 and continues to affect the demand
for new components into 2003. When this
market does recover, Bodycote HIP vessels,
including new ultra high-pressure capability
for the next generation of materials, are now
in place in multiple locations to satisfy the
resurgent market demand.
HIP for the aerospace sector held up reasonably
well, with jet engine turbine blades for Rolls-
Royce and investment cast airframe parts for
Airbus being among the products processed. 
The German HIP operation has been
rationalised with the closure at the end of 2002
of one plant and the transfer of its operations
to other Bodycote HIP sites. The European
HIP operation reduced its workforce by 10%.
The German operation has specialised in
wear-resistant industrial extrusion equipment
for plastics and other materials – 2002 started
slowly in this ﬁeld, but was running ahead of
expectation by the end of the year and into
2003, with a positive outlook. 
The Densal
®
II processes are already well
established for turbo impellers and competition
car castings. 2002 saw the ﬁrst volumes of
engine castings for a production road model.
The ﬁrst German Densal
®
II HIP unit is at
capacity and plans are being made to
accommodate increased schedules in 2004.
In Sweden the production of NNS (near net
shape) parts for the new large CERN
accelerator supported the introduction of
automatic welding machines and paves the
way for further volume production of NNS
components for petro-chemical, industrial or
scientiﬁc applications. The level of enquiries
for offshore petro-chemical components has
been good and the outlook for business with
our Scandinavian NNS partner Metso is positive.
Extra large parts HIPped for the paper and
mineral extraction industries are continuing
to perform well, with repeat business due 
to pick up in 2003.
The market for HIPped powder metal billet
preforms in tool, high speed steels and other
specialist materials has held up well during 2002.
The global market for medical replacement
joints continues to grow. 
Continuing involvement in a number of European
funded joint research programmes not only
promotes the application of HIP to new
materials such as metal matrix composites,
but also strengthens relationships with prime
contractors in ﬁelds such as aerospace and
medical equipment.
METALLURGICAL COATINGS
This SBU produced a loss after a very
disappointing 2001. The wet coating section
of this SBU was the main under performer.
The severe overcapacity in wet coating has
resulted in numerous competitors making
desperate efforts to survive the downturn 
by slashing prices.
To improve our performance we have carved
out three technologically focused strategic
development units (SDUs) from the activities
of the Metallurgical Coatings SBU – Ceramic,
PVD and Advanced Anodising.
Ceramic Coatings
Ceramic coatings improve the productivity of
manufacturing equipment by increasing the
wear life of components. This year we
increased cross-selling and support in several
core industries, including the oil exploration,
galvanising, and the circular knitting and
textile equipment manufacturing sectors. 
We now have a long-term agreement with
the largest manufacturer of plastic injection
moulding equipment for use of our coating
and densiﬁcation processes on the high wear
and corrosion areas of their equipment. Life
improvements have been dramatic – in excess
of tenfold. Additional market penetration was
made in 2002 into the high-pressure chemical
injection pump industry, where we are now
the premier coating supplier.
Physical Vapour Deposition
We restructured existing PVD operations in a
new SDU under focused leadership, creating
a structure that will increase our market
visibility and service efﬁciency in this important
technology and help us move up from third
place in the ﬁeld. Our objective involves
establishment of centres of excellence in
North America and Europe, by a combination
of relocation of existing plant and the addition
of latest technology equipment. A number 
of investments have been completed or are
nearing completion that will expand sales,
increase productivity and efﬁciency and
reduce costs.
In September we moved our Conover, North
Carolina facility to Greensboro, a larger plant,
with the most advanced PVD coating units.
It will become a leading supplier of tribological,
decorative and functional coatings for North
America. Demand for decorative coatings
continues to grow.
The plant at Venlo in the Netherlands has also
been expanded by the installation of two new
units to serve tribological coatings for the
automotive markets. As part of our ongoing
restructuring programme productivity
improvements have been achieved in France,
by the merger of eight small satellite
departments into two strategic sites. 
In the future, Bodycote will open new facilities
both as a strategic geographic growth objective
and as production requirements increase.
The outlook for growth of PVD internationally
in new markets and geographical locations is
very promising. 
Advanced Anodising
2002 was a difﬁcult year for the Kaufbeuren,
Germany, anodising business because of a
general decline in demand, especially in our
main automotive and mechanical engineering
markets. There are opportunities, however,
in the automotive sector with common rail
diesel and brake systems for the major
subcontractors.
Kaufbeuren’s proprietary CompCote process,
which offers signiﬁcant improvements in wear
and corrosion resistance, found increasing
acceptance with new high volume contracts.
CompCote is being evaluated for roll out to
other Bodycote facilities. 
In Finland Bodycote anodises aluminium
proﬁles, plates and castings for the
construction, marine, vehicle and paper
industries, and has important contracts 
for customers in the electronics, machine, 
food, medicine and sports equipment
sectors. The electronics industry in Finland,
led by Nokia and its subcontractors, will provide
a useful source of new business, when business
trends upwards again. Production started in
September 2002 at the new anodising plant
at Alajärvi, Finland for Mäkelä-Alu, a leading
manufacturer of decorative aluminium proﬁles
for the marine and construction sectors. 
This strategic partnership has the capability
of signiﬁcant third party inload from the
customer’s supply chain.
Bodycote annual report 2002 5 Electroplating
Nordic 
The coating market in Nordic countries is
greatly dependent on the telecoms industry.
There was further dramatic reduction in the
market in 2002 and, accordingly, a restructuring
programme was implemented to reduce the
costs. The plants at Järfälla and Kungsör,
Sweden have been closed. In addition, 
to combat soft markets, a new marketing
effort has been launched to improve our
market penetration. With efﬁcient production
resources and technical expertise, there is a
great opportunity to increase market share,
even in a downturn.
The rate of growth in the telecoms industry
is partially dependent on how fast ‘3-G’
systems grow. We opened Europe’s most
modern and largest silver coating plant in
Gothenburg, Sweden, offering technically
advanced plating on aluminium. The most
important processes are silver plating, 
nickel-tin, electroless-nickel and satin nickel.
In the same facility we developed a new
palladium-ruthenium process for our Strategic
Partner Hasselblad, and their unique H1 camera
system, recently introduced at the Cologne
Photo-Kina. 
During 2003 this SDU will concentrate on
increasing market share, especially in the
telecoms and automotive sectors. Cost control
will also be intensiﬁed. With the beneﬁt of
new efﬁcient production, marketing efforts,
unique processes and co-operation with
other group companies, Bodycote Coatings
in Sweden will strengthen our performance.
United Kingdom 
During 2002 many markets changed drastically
and our resultant rationalisation programme
was a major effort. Due to decline in the
telecoms sector and reduced volumes for
automotive and construction industries, 
we had to close seven coatings facilities 
at Caerphilly, Dudley, Knowsley, Poole and
Rotherham. Their proﬁtable sales were merged
within existing plants and equipment was
transferred to match market requirements
and improve efﬁciencies. 
Two sites focus on the aerospace industry
with a variety of processes, and four large and
efﬁcient plants concentrate on large volume
Sherardizing, organic ﬁnishes and zinc
electroplating. All have excellent equipment
and staff to challenge our competitors and
meet customer requirements.
All coatings plants have upgraded to meet
new management and quality standards.
Several sites have ISO14001 with all others on
schedule to meet these requirements. Our
fast delivery and quality systems will assist
us in differentiating us from our competitors.
In-house (captive) closures, due to
environmental and commercial challenges and
market co-operation with Bodycote’s heat
treatment operations, are providing many
outsourcing opportunities. 
In the more traditional coatings, niche expertise
was developed in zinc electroplating for the
automotive industry and in copper electroplating
for the oil and gas sector for a major French
customer. Sherardizing, a proprietary process,
continues to win speciﬁcation acceptance with
automotive and construction subcontractors and
is under review to be rolled out internationally. 
MATERIALS TESTING
A robust performance was produced by
Materials Testing across all geographic market
segments, despite continued economic
uncertainty and ﬂat end-user markets. 
The demand for materials testing services
continues to grow as new technologies,
material advances and product liability issues
create a ﬁtness for purpose culture. This factor,
allied to the closure of in-house laboratories,
provides substantial opportunities for our
extensive service portfolio, market coverage
and reputation for quick and reliable response.
The winning of increased market share has
been the key to achieving increased operating
proﬁt and raising operating margins in price
competitive markets. During 2002 signiﬁcant
effort was expended in increasing our cash
ﬂow by improving our working capital
management. As part of the corporate drive
to improve our operating performance a
number of key performance indicators (KPIs)
were selected for management. This approach
made our decisions more proactive as we
were able to respond more expeditiously 
to difﬁculties. 
Our core materials testing laboratories in the
UK beneﬁted from a particularly resilient oil
and gas market. Our specialist corrosion facility
was a major contributor as international projects
rely on our expertise. The radiographic business
unit suffered as a result of general weakness
in aerospace and power generation and we
will consolidate our capacity through the closure
of our Halesowen facility in March 2003. A
number of additional OEM approvals for our
engineering laboratory group enabled
signiﬁcant penetration into European
aerospace suppliers, resulting in proﬁt growth.
The acquisition of Pipeline Developments
Limited, Salford UK expands our plastic pipe
testing capability and creates opportunities in
the important European water utility market.
Our Norwegian laboratory which, with its
specialist fatigue facility, was able to target
simulation studies on oil platform umbilicals.
Our presence in the important North Italian
metals market was strengthened by the
acquisition of CTR Srl, Padua. This facility
complements our existing Crema laboratory
and enhances our skills portfolio available in
this important market.
The establishment of an additional road
materials laboratory in Abu Dhabi further
extended our capability in the Emirates,
allowing increased market penetration and
solid sales and proﬁt growth. 
The Canadian group advanced strongly on
the back of substantial success in their TOP
(Total Outsourcing Programme) initiative.
Major projects were undertaken for US
automotive and pharmaceutical companies
utilising the division’s unique quality approvals
and innovative technical solutions. A number
of outsourcing deals in the Health Science
division in Ontario opened up new markets.
Similarly in Quebec we were able to obtain
signiﬁcant quality approvals from the public
health authorities for a number of specialist
toxicology and biological tests, which
stimulated sales.
Excellent performance from our businesses
in Houston TX and Portland OR offset the
downturn in aerospace and powergen markets,
allowing the US business to achieve proﬁt
growth. We were also able to take advantage
of cross-selling with our heat treatment and
HIP operations to widen our market exposure
and create exciting service offerings for our
combined client base. The US markets remain
fragile and subject to volatility, therefore,
further growth in sales relies on our ability 
to expand our approval portfolio and service
provision and this will be the focus in 2003.
Organisationally, we focused efforts on
leveraging our technological expertise,
coordinating our sales/marketing strategy
and increasing investment in human capital.
A number of programmes have been initiated
with a group business development model.
Chief Executive’s Review
6 Bodycote annual report 2002 Senior executives from each geographical
region are tasked with generating outsourcing
opportunities for the group. Success has been
achieved with a laboratory being set up in
the Czech Republic in early 2003 to service 
a major aerospace supplier. We continue to
invest in improved Information Systems and
have rolled out enhanced LIMS (Laboratory
Information Management Systems) via our
global network. Our electronic certiﬁcate
initiative has been extremely well received
by clients who beneﬁt from desktop access
to their test results. Further integration of
our back ofﬁce systems followed investment
in bespoke e-purchasing packages. 
LOOKING FORWARD
Markets are anticipated to remain tough
throughout 2003. With excess processing
capacity in the market we anticipate pricing
pressures will remain high. Cost pressures
will continue to present challenges. Capital
expenditures will be aggressively managed
and are expected to be below depreciation.
We continue taking costs out, selling to
improve our utilisation and ﬁnding ways to
be more efﬁcient. Although we already hold
the required and desirable quality certiﬁcations
we will continue our capability improvement
by adopting new ISO, NADCAP and other
registrations as appropriate. The few
acquisitions we are likely to do will be focused
on Materials Testing, high value added services,
niche technical providers and or speciﬁc
market strengthening bolt-ons. The Materials
Testing Group looks forward with optimism
and conﬁdence that further improvements 
in performance can be achieved.
Knowledge transfer and the development 
of employees are critical for our long-term
performance. We constantly provide continuing
education, apprenticeships, internships, and
mentoring. The annual Bodycote Prize Paper
Competition provides a wide-ranging opportunity
to interest young people in Metallurgy and
Materials technology. We have attracted
several participants into careers with the
company and are beneﬁting not only from
their skills but also the enhanced recognition
which our encouragement of technology
development brings.
Despite the challenges presented this year,
the Bodycote team never reduced their efforts.
I am very proud of the commitment they
showed to delivering the best results possible
and our ability to make tough decisions in such
difﬁcult conditions. Our number one asset
remains our people.
In conclusion, with the cost actions taken 
in 2002, Bodycote is well positioned to be 
a major beneﬁciary of any upturn in market
demand as we have eager people and
productive capacity available for providing
superior quality and service.
John D. Hubbard
18 March 2003
Bodycote annual report 2002 7
