 Introduction
It has been a tough year. As reported in
November, the encouraging signs mid-year
proved to be a false dawn. We have never
previously experienced such a widespread
downturn in our markets. Commercial
aerospace, power generation, oil and gas all
experienced demand weakness. The Board
have been active in addressing these changing
market conditions and we are now much
better placed to deal with the market wide
issues than we were twelve months ago.
Trading
Turnover and proﬁts this year have fallen in
well over half of our plants. As announced at
the half year, corrective action has been taken
to reduce our cost base and we have incurred
exceptional operating costs of £18.3m. 
The cost savings from these actions are 
in line with our expectations but have been
largely offset by the decline in turnover 
and increases in other costs such as energy 
and insurance. Before these exceptional costs 
and amortisation of goodwill our pre-tax proﬁt
for the year was £38.2m (2001: £66.3m) 
on turnover of £440.1m (2001: £479.4m).
Materials Testing was the most successful
of our Strategic Business Units (SBUs),
achieving organic growth in sales and proﬁts.
The most disappointing was Metallurgical
Coatings, where business levels in electronics
and telecommunications are still signiﬁcantly
down and we have not yet seen the full
beneﬁts of our rationalisation efforts in
Scandinavia and the UK. Heat Treatment sales
and margins were affected in all regions by the
general downturn in the Western Hemisphere
and the downturn in aerospace and power
generation, in particular, had a major impact
on our USA and UK businesses. HIPping
was similarly affected as this SBU has the
greatest exposure to these two markets.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 3.85p per share which
maintains the total dividend for the year at
6.1p, the same level as 2001. This dividend
is covered 1.7 times before the exceptional
operating costs. The ﬁnal dividend will be paid
on 1 July 2003 to shareholders on the register
at the close of business on 6 June 2003.
Acquisitions
The focus of management in 2002 has 
been to reduce the cost base, instil stricter
capital expenditure disciplines and improve
efﬁciencies in our existing businesses 
rather than to strengthen the Group by
acquisitions. We have, however, made some
bolt-on acquisitions at a total cost of £11.2m
including assumed debt.
Board Changes and Structure
I am pleased to report that our plans to
reshape the Board are complete. It now
comprises of a majority of non-executive
directors. Our new non-executive directors,
Hans Vogelsang and Laurent Bermejo, were
appointed with effect from 2 January 2003.
They bring a wide range of international
business experience to Bodycote and have
settled in well.
Martyn Wilton and Mike Hallas have
relinquished main board responsibilities to focus
on wider executive responsibilities. They are
both members of the Senior Operating Board
which has established itself well during the year.
Bernie Rickinson will retire from the Main
Board at the annual general meeting in 
order to concentrate on his new duties 
as non-executive chairman of our HIPping
business, as we switch towards a global
management approach for this SBU.
I would like to thank all the retiring directors
for the valuable contribution they have made,
at Main Board level, in this and previous years
and for facilitating these changes.
Going forward we have a Board which has a
balance of experience and a strong commercial
background appropriate for the Group and
our shareholders in these challenging times.
Employees
We are fortunate to have, at all levels, 
such a strong, dedicated and professional
workforce. They continue to show a 
high level of commitment coupled with 
a determination to succeed. I thank them 
for their continued support.
Safety, Health and Environment
Our internal reporting on these issues has
improved in the year as has our record and
the resources applied. We now have 15 plants
that are certiﬁed to ISO 14001 on environmental
management and more plants are expected
to achieve this status in 2003.
Current Trading and Prospects
Trading in 2003 has started at a marginally
lower level than that of 2002. As detailed by
John Hubbard in his Chief Executive's review,
we continue to focus on operational excellence,
cost efﬁciency and capital expenditure discipline.
To this end internal reporting measures have
been strengthened across the Group, which
facilitates improved benchmarking between
plants and best in class technology sharing.
The escalating threat of war with Iraq brings
increased uncertainty and it is not possible
to comment with any accuracy on the likely
impact on our business. Nevertheless we
remain conﬁdent of our business model and
will continue to provide leading quality and
service to our customers at good value. 
We aim to be the market leader in all the
countries where we operate and although
we are not actively seeking acquisitions we
will explore bolt on opportunities that arise
to ensure a continuation of our market
leadership and geographic expansion at a
sensible cost. We will also sell some plants
whose operations do not ﬁt in with the long
term plans of Bodycote. 
We will continue our drive to improve
operating and net cash ﬂows and the return
on capital employed.
James Wallace
18 March 2003 
Chairman’s Statement
2 Bodycote annual report 2002
