 2003 brought no respite from the tough trading
conditions we faced since mid 2001 when
demand for the Group’s services began to
decline, particularly in North America. 
This trend was quickly exacerbated by the
events of September 11, political instability
and has continued to affect us through 2003.
The Group’s future can best be served by
concentrating on the businesses where we
have strong market positions and excellent
know how, to enable Bodycote to maximise
its return on capital employed.
Sales for the year were up 1.9% over 2002;
however, this was aided by some small
acquisitions generating growth of 1.8% and
favourable currency translation of 1.9%.
Pricing pressures remained high, the result of
our customers benchmarking manufacturing
costs on a global basis and driving their costs
down. In response to difﬁcult markets, over
capacity in the market and overlapping locations,
we closed 13 facilities in 2003, 16 in 2002 and
reduced headcount by around 1,100 in this two
year period. These actions have primarily
targeted Heat Treating and Wet Coatings in
the USA, UK, Sweden and France and have
slightly improved facility utilisation. Market mix,
however, has remained skewed towards lower
value added segments with commercial
aviation, oil and gas, telecommunications and
industrial gas turbine market (IGT) demands
remaining low. We have successfully reduced
our cost structure by £15m annualised over the
past two years, but these gains have been
more than offset by unit cost rises for key
inputs, most notably our people costs, energy
and depreciation. Reﬂecting all these dynamic
forces, operating margins declined in all
Strategic Business Units (SBUs) except
Materials Testing where they remained steady.
We have successfully instituted rigorous controls
on capital expenditure and in 2003 generated
£30.3m free cash ﬂow (2002: £22.0m) and net
cash of £16.1m, after paying the dividend. 
Automotive and general engineering end
markets have begun to show some signs 
of recovery in demand while aerospace and
power generation markets are stabilising. 
We made two signiﬁcant acquisitions during
the year. The ﬁrst, a patented slurry coating
technology developed in Canada which has
been relocated to an existing UK facility with
development support being provided from one
of our laboratories in Canada. The second, 
a testing group of three laboratories in the
Middle East.
We captured new outsourcing business which,
when on stream, will equate to over £20m a
year of new sales. In addition, as a result of
our network capability within each geographical
region, we are expecting to see market growth
opportunities develop in late 2004 from our
technology transfer initiatives.
Our two largest SBUs, Heat Treatment and
Materials Testing, are in a good position to
capitalise on improving market conditions.
Demand for HIP remains subdued as this is
more geared to IGT and aerospace markets
which are expected to improve later than
other sectors. 
The Wet Coatings performance, however,
continued to decline. With sales in 2003 of
£38.0m, it lost £6.0m, had negative EBITDA
of £1.8m and over the past two years absorbed
£10m of capital investment. The Wet Coatings
group was established in the late 1990s through
a series of acquisitions designed to create 
a business which would be synergistic with
Bodycote’s core heat treatment operations.
These synergies, however, have not
materialised. After a thorough evaluation we
have decided to exit the Wet Coating business
sector and aim to do so by divestiture in an
orderly and timely fashion so we can focus our
resources on core businesses. We estimate
that this early action will require a charge of
c.£35.0m. This will include non cash asset write
downs of approximately £30m charged in the
2003 accounts, of which, £19m relates to
tangible ﬁxed assets and £11m to goodwill.
The remaining £5m (cash) relates to exit costs
such as redundancy, and these will be charged
in the 2004 accounts. The exit from this
business will remove a cash and proﬁt drain
on the Group and will allow us to re-focus
attention and develop our core businesses.
In addition to addressing the Wet Coatings
issue, which was mentioned in our December
2003 trading statement, we have today
announced a fully underwritten Rights Issue.
We consider that a combination of equity
issuance and asset sales will signiﬁcantly
improve the ﬁnancial position and ﬂexibility of
the Group. Over time, some of the proceeds
will be used to support outsourcing, organic
growth and to make selective, focused, bolt on
acquisitions for our core SBUs. There have been
no material acquisitions in the past two years
and the few we have made have been in core
businesses and delivered well over 20% return
on capital. We remain totally committed to
improving the Group’s return on capital
employed and generating cash. 
HEAT TREATMENT
Overall sales were ﬂat with margins slipping
1.7 percentage points.
North America
In local currency sales for North America
dropped 7.3% year on year with margins
slipping 3 percentage points.
We entered 2003 expecting that the decline
in the manufacturing economy was about to
end and we would beneﬁt from all the cost
reductions achieved. Since the downturn
started in 2001, we reduced the number of
heat treatment locations from 58 to 43 and
the number of people employed by around
450. Cost increases in utilities and medical
insurance offset a lot of the cost reductions
that had been made. Over capacity, and thus
pricing pressures, continue to inﬂuence the
industry. We have been able to increase market
share in some areas and have been successful
in concluding additional Strategic Partnerships
and outsourcing agreements bringing
prospects for growth in 2004 and beyond.
We increased our emphasis on management
training and continued to raise the bar in
areas of safety, health and environmental. 
The Bodycote Quality System, a systematic
approach to delivering quality results, is now
installed throughout the organisation and has
advanced to become the Bodycote Management
System to encompass the new ISO 9001-2000
requirements. Most sites have successfully
been accredited to the new ISO standard. 
We enter 2004 with a committed and
streamlined organisation. Most of the
planned consolidation work is now behind 
us and our base is aligned with market
demand. We move forward focused on
growth and business development. 
Central European Group (CEG)
Germany, Netherlands, Austria, Switzerland,
Czech Republic, Hungary and Liechtenstein
In local currency sales for CEG grew 2.0%
year on year with stable margins.
Despite difﬁcult market conditions, national
strikes and the strong inﬂuence of the Iraq
war at the beginning of the year, this division
was able to deliver a respectable proﬁt margin
by tight cost control, a strong sales programme,
high proﬁle marketing and turning around
loss making plants. 
CEG increased market share especially in
the high added value sectors of the market.
We continued to develop the outsourcing
concept and improved capacity utilisation.
Chief Executive’s Review
Bodycote annual report 2003 3
ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17  24/3/04  3:09 pm  Page 3 Steps into new technology applications such
as: laser heat treating/joining, brazing of fuel
cells, diesel exhaust ﬁlters and heat treatment
of automotive common rail components helped
improve our performance. 
The Netherlands had a satisfactory performance. 
Our international reputation for quality and
reliable service has helped us to gain market
share with multi-national manufactures in
the automotive and tooling markets of the
Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania.
Against a background of declining markets
and strong competition we managed to
maintain our sales in Austria. New low
pressure carburizing capacity was installed
for diesel engine applications. 
Focus will be maintained on our plans to
produce better returns in Switzerland and
Liechtenstein where declining markets and
excess capacity have driven prices down. 
In the Central European Group, winning
additional outsourcing business remains a
focus to increase utilisation of our existing
equipment. Our Eastern European expansion
programme to support manufacturers will
also be a key objective. 
France, Belgium, Italy (FBI)
In local currency organic sales for FBI fell 5.4%
year on year with margins remaining stable.
A major restructuring plan in 2003 absorbed
much management time and energy. Five
facilities were closed. As a result our headcount
has been reduced by more than 100 people
but because of the time consuming process
involved in securing government and union
agreement, the full beneﬁt will not be seen
until 2004. Other rationalisation has involved
the merger of all induction heat treatment at
Billy Berclau and the return to proﬁtability under
new management of the Cluses and Thyez
operations. La Talaudière was modiﬁed to house
additional operations and most of the sales
transferred from neighbouring closed facilities.
New low-pressure carburising investment will
focus on emerging automotive applications.
We now have a good base for growth in Italy,
the third largest manufacturing market in Europe,
after our acquisition of the Gamma group in 2002. 
United Kingdom
Sales in the UK grew 1.1% year on year with
margins reducing by 2 percentage points.
The UK heat treatment operations focused on
cost control and improvement in return on
capital employed. Sales from new automotive
contracts and growth in vacuum brazing and
electron beam welding offset price pressures
in other areas to keep sales level with 2002.
Cost increases, however, led to margins declining.
The demand for high value work from the
commercial aerospace and power generation
sectors continued at depressed 2002 levels.
Our new Heat Treatment Centre adjacent to
Delphi in Gillingham opened in March 2003 and
is performing according to plan. Our relationship
with major international manufacturing ﬁrms
continues to strengthen; offering us opportunities
throughout the Western Hemisphere. NADCAP
(National Aerospace and Defence Contractors
Accreditation Programme) audits to meet our
Rolls-Royce commitment started successfully
and will be completed during 2004. This
establishes Bodycote as the ﬁrst NADCAP
approved source on this side of the Atlantic.
Nordic (Sweden, Denmark and Finland) 
In local currency sales for the Nordic Group
were at a similar level year on year but margins
dropped almost 6 percentage points. 
Although sales in Swedish heat treatment
were ﬂat, low margin sales predominated. 
Sales growth in Finland was slightly positive and
with tight cost control, margins were acceptable.
Co-operation with our French colleagues and
a Finnish customer led to the development
of FinNIT, a new process which extends the
life of aluminium extrusion dies. We expect
to offer this service in other geographies. 
Increased competition from a start up company
in Denmark has resulted in losses. Costs
have been reduced to improve the situation.
MATERIALS TESTING
Organic sales grew 2.6% year on year and
margins remained steady.
In very tough economic conditions and market
uncertainty, the Materials T esting SBU performed
in line with expectations, primarily by diversifying
our range of expertise and service offerings.
By concentrating on high valued added services
the Group won new business and increased
market share. A key element to this growth was
the formation of a number of cross-border,
industry speciﬁc technical forums which were
able to capitalise on extensive technical
know-how and experience, enabling signiﬁcant
opportunities to be grasped. A number of
innovative projects, indicating the leading
role the Materials Testing SBU places on
technologically driven expertise, were initiated
in early 2003 and included:
The installation in Sweden of BOMIC, our
advanced microcalorimetry testing service,
capable of predicting the shelf life of a number
of defence munitions systems. This world
standard technology has attracted global
business and was partly responsible for growth
in proﬁts at this facility.
In our Italian facilities we added a unique
laboratory speciﬁcally designed to investigate
the ﬁeld failure of telecom and associated
electronic products by utilising various optical
and analytical techniques. 
In terms of our geographical market performance,
the core UK business suffered in line with UK
manufacturing and the effects of globalisation
on traditional home produced goods. Our
Radiographic and Materials Engineering units
performed admirably in difﬁcult IGT/Aerospace
markets, and a number of OEM approvals
and investment programmes should provide
added impetus for 2004. The Health Sciences
division posted an improvement in proﬁt.
This business unit will be expanded to take
advantage of further regulatory compliance
monitoring for water quality, asbestos in buildings
and integrated pollution, prevention and
control (IPPC).
The European division had strong trading
performances in Sweden, where our Polymer
Piping laboratory won large outsourced testing
programmes from North America and the
Far East. In the Netherlands the laboratories
won work on large tranches of pipeline and
associated oil/gas installation work from France,
Spain and Indonesia. Similarly, the Italian
business captured several signiﬁcant projects
for programmes in Russia, Turkey and Libya.
Our Middle Eastern facilities performed well
ahead of expectations following the completion
of several signiﬁcant construction projects in
the UAE allied to signiﬁcant penetration into
oil/gas markets in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan
and Iran. This provided the platform for the
further expansion, both in service scope and
geographically, via the acquisition of the
laboratory interests of Carillion plc in Abu Dhabi,
Oman, and Dubai. These laboratories are
now successfully integrated into the Group
and the rationale for the development of the
division was fully vindicated by securing the
multi-million dollar contract for provision of an
on site laboratory for the Dubai Airport extension.
Our North American business Group had mixed
fortunes, with the Canadian Group unable to
match last year’s performance due to price
erosion in our Quebec Environmental/
Pharmaceutical markets. Our Detroit laboratory
which opened an additional facility, enhancing
the large scale environmental simulation
capability available. New chlorine test cells
for Polymer Piping were installed at Melrose
Park to meet changes in the US plumbing
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Bodycote annual report 2003
ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17  24/3/04  3:09 pm  Page 4 regulations. Los Angeles continues to be a
challenge due to the continuing downturn in
the US Aerospace sector, however a number
of signiﬁcant quality approvals from major
US/UK engine manufacturers should provide
trading stimulus for 2004.
2003 also witnessed a number of advances in
our infrastructure support systems with the
adoption worldwide of our ISO 17025 quality
system; the roll-out of our North American
developed LIMS system, which allows clients
direct access to their data; and ﬁnally the setting
up of divisional marketing centres to control
enquiry management, co-ordinate web marketing
and provide market intelligence to our business
development teams.
HIP
Overall sales declined 1% year on year and
margins declined 3 percentage points. 2004 will
be a year in which we expect to start improving
our return on capital employed which remains
unacceptably low in this capital intensive SBU.
North America
Aerospace volumes in North America accounted
for 54% of our sales (2002: 54%). We saw a
halving in IGT sales but this was more than
offset by growth in the tooling and electronics
markets, which relate to HIPping of powder
metal billets and ﬂat screen TV targets.
Equipment installed in 2002, to produce 
a transparent ceramic material (ALON),
experienced slower than budgeted sales
increase, but we remain conﬁdent that this
work will utilise the installed capacity.
Europe
Positive change came from increased sales of
near net shaped powder densiﬁcation projects.
Improved welding efﬁciency in Sweden has
reduced operating costs and lead-time for
several key customers. The offshore oil and
gas business and demand for industrial gas
turbines, which is the major market for UK
HIP, remained at the levels of 2002 reﬂecting
continued low global demand.
The merger of our Essen facility with Haag, near
Munich, helped reduce the cost base. Densal II®
adoption by a major automotive customer is
assisting in gaining application acceptance. 
METALLURGICAL COATINGS
Wet Coatings 
The acquisition strategy to grow a wet coatings
group synergistic with our heat-treating network
failed to beneﬁt the Group. After careful review,
we have decided to exit this market in an
orderly and timely fashion so we can focus
our resources on core businesses.
Specialty Coatings
Specialty coatings consist of processes we
believe are synergistic with our heat-treating
business. These value added services provide,
in the main, functional metallurgical enhancement.
Slurry Coatings
Demand for our ceramic slurry coatings increased
during the year in spite of ﬂuctuations in the
oil exploration and textile markets. Our emerging
market applications are medical suppliers and
electronics, the latter requiring an insulating
coating currently under development. 
Following our success in the UK, we are now
penetrating the North American and European
steel market. Bodycote is applying K-Tech 17
ceramic densiﬁcation on galvanising and steel
mill furnace rolls, extending their useful life.
A collaboration agreement with a leading UK
manufacturer to supply tungsten carbide coating
and a joint marketing campaign is currently
underway in Europe.
In June, we acquired the intellectual property
rights and production equipment for the
CoatAlloy® range of diffusion bonded metallic
slurry coatings from Surface Engineered Products
Ltd of Alberta, Canada, as part of our strategy
to develop our speciality coating group. These
advanced, high temperature, metallic slurry
coatings will be applied at our previously surplus
facility at Knowsley, UK to a range of oil and gas
and petrochemical applications. This coating
dramatically improves ethylene process yield
and lengthens time between maintenance
requirements offering considerable advantages
for chemical plant operators and is being
marketed through our strategic partnership
with Manoir Industries S.A., a specialist
tubular manufacturer. 
Physical Vapour Deposition (PVD)
In order to cope with the international nature of
the PVD customer base and the strong needs
to cross link the coating know how, the 10
facilities have been put under one operating
structure. Speciﬁc regional market knowledge
and coating application know-how is being
leveraged ‘from centres of excellence’ for global
exploitation. PVD operations that have proven
competencies in speciﬁc niches will support the
roll-out of those applications into the geographic
network. The Tecate, Mexico operation is
supporting marketing and process
development for decorative applications,
Chassieu, France for tooling and Venlo,
Netherlands for tribological coatings applications.
Sherardizing/Sheraplex
Two sites focus on large volume Sherardizing/
Sheraplex. Sheraplex has been speciﬁed by
the designer for European and USA foldaway
trailer system for the back of breakdown
trailers. Sheraplex is being marketed worldwide
as a cost effective coating system for fasteners
used on construction projects.
Plasma Spray
New contracts have been won for plasma
spray of titanium honeycomb parts for Airbus
projects at our French facility.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
The results for the ﬁrst two months of the year
are in line with our expectations. With the
operating improvements that have already
been implemented and the actions we are
taking on Wet Coatings, we are conﬁdent 
in the ﬁnancial and trading prospects for 
the Group in the current year.
Looking further ahead the Group is poised to
move forward as market demand recovers.
Bodycote has capable people, productive
facilities and the systems to deliver exceptional
quality and service. The Group will continue
to focus on higher value added work, gaining
further market share and winning new
outsourcing contracts. The Group’s medium
term strategy is to deliver a pre tax return 
on capital in the mid teens.
In support of our ongoing needs and future
talent requirement for high calibre staff, we
have intensiﬁed initiatives to nurture interest
in a career with Bodycote. Programmes of school
visits, distance learning through related discipline
colleges, graduate sponsorship schemes at
various European and North American
universities and ‘Prize Paper Competition’ have
enhanced Bodycote’s proﬁle amongst this
important talent pool as Bodycote continues to
position itself for further growth and development
and looks forward to the challenges ahead.
John D. Hubbard
9 March 2004
Bodycote annual report 2003 5
ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17  24/3/04  3:10 pm  Page 5
