 Introduction
It has been another tough year. At the beginning
of 2003 there was a general view amongst
macro-economic commentators that the difﬁcult
market conditions that commenced in the
middle of 2001 would start to abate in the
second half of 2003. However, as in 2002,
the encouraging mid-year signs turned out 
to be another false dawn. The programme of
self-help initiatives that we have taken have
been extensive and the beneﬁts have gone
some way to compensate for the effects of
downward market demand, pressure on pricing
and the increased costs particularly of medical
insurances, depreciation and utilities.
Trading
Aided by some acquisition growth and
favourable foreign exchange conversion
rates turnover was up by a modest amount
at £448.4m (2002:£440.1m). Operating proﬁt
of £25.1m (2002: £22.4m) was up 12 per cent.
However, despite our cost saving measures
our operating margins weakened and
consequently our proﬁt before taxation, goodwill
amortisation of £9.1m (2002: £8.7m) and
exceptional items of £34.0m (2002: £18.3m)
fell to £32.0m (2002:£38.2m). 
Heat Treatment turnover held up well in Europe
but was severely affected in North America,
which also suffered from the adverse effects
of currency translation. Materials Testing was
again our most successful Strategic Business
Unit with an improvement in both sales and
operating proﬁt. HIPping, particularly in the
early part of the year, experienced a further
downturn in turnover and proﬁtability.
Metallurgical Coatings, whilst increasing
turnover, has not so far secured the beneﬁts
from the rationalisation programme and the
increased losses within this division are all
attributable to wet coatings which is an area of
activity that we have concluded does not ﬁt with
Bodycote’s longer term strategy. A decision
has thus been taken to exit the wet coatings
business area in an orderly and timely fashion.
It is particularly pleasing to note that our efforts
to reduce capital expenditure and to improve
working capital continue to show beneﬁts 
and we have generated free cash of £30.3m 
in the year (2002: £22.0m) and our year 
end indebtedness now stands at £210.3m
(2002:£234.2m).
Operating Exceptionals 
and Exceptional charges
Principally as a result of the decision to dispose
of our wet coatings businesses we incurred
£34.0m net exceptional and operating
exceptional charges in 2003 (2002: £18.3m).
£33.5m of these charges related to goodwill
and asset write-downs and were of a non cash
nature. It is anticipated that a further £5m cash
of exceptional charges will be incurred in 2004
in respect of disposal and closure costs for
wet coatings. 
Future Growth
The focus of the Board is to return the Group
to an organic growth path and a number of
signiﬁcant new outsourcing contracts have been
won and are currently being negotiated. In
addition, the Board have and will continue to
consider appropriate bolt on acquisitions, which
we believe will strengthen the Group, improve
our market position and increase our earning
capacity. Net acquisition costs in 2003 were
£2.2m. The principal acquisition of 3 test
laboratories in the Middle East has been
assimilated well and has signiﬁcantly increased
our presence in this growing market. The other
acquisition of note was the CoatAlloy® slurry
coatings business which is being relocated
from Canada to an existing facility in the UK. 
Rights Issue
We have taken the decision to strengthen our
balance sheet and to give ourselves increased
ﬁnancial ﬂexibility going forward. To this end we
have today announced a fully underwritten
rights issue which will raise net proceeds of
approximately £61.9m. We believe that this
issue together with the actions being taken on
wet coatings and the rationalisation measures
already implemented will signiﬁcantly
strengthen Bodycote’s ﬁnancial position. 
Full particulars are contained in the prospectus
sent to shareholders under separate cover.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending an unchanged
ﬁnal dividend of 3.85p which maintains the
total dividend for the year at 6.1p and will be
paid on 5 July 2004 to all shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 26 March
2004. The new shares, the subject of the rights
issue, will not qualify for this ﬁnal dividend.
Governance
Over the last two years Bodycote has been
very proactive in reviewing and implementing
changes to its board structure and governance
procedures in general. What has emerged, we
believe, is a structure appropriate for Bodycote.
In keeping with the spirit of the New Combined
Code we explain in the Directors’ Report in
the Annual Report why, for good reasons,
we are at variance with the Code in a small
number of respects. Our clear focus, going
forward, as a Board, is to concentrate on
adding economic value to the Group whilst
continuing to be transparent and open in our
communication with shareholders and the
investment community.
Employees
As always we rely upon the dedication and
professionalism of our staff which has been
clearly demonstrated in what has been another
tough year. The additional ﬁnancial commitment
from our shareholders and the prospects for an
upturn in our markets will provide them with the
opportunity to fully demonstrate their abilities.
Safety, Health and the Environment
The industries we operate in have inherent
safety risks from high temperature, 
high pressure, volatile gases and chemicals.
We strive to provide training, equipment and
procedures to manage the risks associated
with our businesses. In the past year we have
enhanced the gathering of detailed safety
performance data relating to incidents,
frequency and severity rates of accidents and
established speciﬁc goals. Environmental
compliance is part of our good citizenship
effort. We now have a group of facilities
certiﬁed to ISO-14001 environmental standard
and are working to certify more locations. We
remain committed to continuous improvement.
Current Trading and Prospects
The results for the ﬁrst two months of the year
are in line with our expectations. With the
operating improvements that have already
been implemented and the actions we are
taking on Wet Coatings, we are conﬁdent 
in the ﬁnancial and trading prospects for the
Group in the current year. 
Looking further ahead the Group is poised to
move forward as market demand recovers.
Bodycote has capable people, productive
facilities and the systems to deliver exceptional
quality and service. The Group will continue
to focus on higher value added work, gaining
further market share and winning new
outsourcing contracts. The Group’s medium
term strategy is to deliver a pre tax return 
on capital in the mid teens.
James Wallace
9 March 2004
Chairman’s Statement
2 Bodycote annual report 2003
ID1313 Bc AR 2003 v17  24/3/04  3:09 pm  Page 2
