 I am pleased to report a welcome improvement
in performance during 2004. We have divested
the loss making electroplating operations and
poor performing facilities have been sold,
transferred or closed. Our PVD businesses
have been consolidated into a strategic alliance
to provide critical mass in this growing market.
We have sharpened our Key Performance
Indicator (KPI) metrics, standardised our
reporting and improved benchmarking across
the Group. All of these actions are helping to
rebuild ROCE. Meanwhile, our successful
rights issue strengthened the balance sheet.
We have closed or sold 42 facilities in the past
3 years (13 in 2004) and acquired 10 new
businesses (4 in 2004). We now have 261
facilities operating in 26 countries.
Sales at £457.2m were 2.0% ahead of 2003.
Excluding the disposed electroplating and PVD
sales and using constant currency exchange
rates, sales grew 8.5% compared to 2003,
of which 8.0% points were an organic increase.
With stable automotive markets, improved
demand from general manufacturers, a strong
rebound from the Industrial Gas Turbines
(IGT) sector, new outsourcing business and
increased market share, we were more able
to offset cost pressures which resulted from
normal wage and beneﬁt increases and volatile
energy costs. Operating proﬁt (before goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items) grew
25.0% to £52.1m compared with £41.7m
a year ago. Without our self help programme
and improved sales effort we would not
have been able to post such an improvement
in performance. I thank all the people in
Bodycote who have helped deliver these
improving results.
STRATEGY
Our strategy is based on disciplined
investments in technologies with a good future,
along with continued support of outsourced
business from strong manufacturers focusing
on their core competencies. Rapidly growing
manufacturing demand in Eastern Europe and
Asia will support the continued geographic
expansion of the Group over the medium
term. In addition, our Materials Testing Group
is positioned to accelerate its growth by
technology transfer, new outsourced
programmes and acquisitions.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Securing major outsourcing opportunities
remains a strategic focus to support our top
line growth and margin enhancement.
Bodycote’s outsourcing initiative offers
manufacturers lower total cost, equal or better
quality and quick turnaround. The key is our
technical expertise in niche technologies which
are not core to most manufacturers and our
highly productive model where we operate at
optimum efﬁciency. As predicted, the trend to
outsourcing and closure of in-house facilities,
which is well established in Europe, is
accelerating in North America, particularly in
automotive. Outsourced work from Strategic
Partnerships (SP) and Long Term Agreements
(LTA) accounted for 17% of Group turnover
as compared to 13% in 2003.
Technology transfer initiatives continue to
be successful, with niche capabilities being
transferred geographically to existing facilities.
These high value added services enhance
customer satisfaction and lead to additional
revenue. 
The cross selling and bundling of multiple
services creates a unique offering which
appeals to those manufacturers that wish
to optimise their performance by focusing
on core competencies. Our geographic and
market spread reduces the risk associated
with any one account. Our top ten customers
accounted for approximately 10% of total
turnover, compared to 9% in 2003.
Heat Treatment
At constant currency rates, Group wide
sales grew 6.7% and operating proﬁt
improved 12.0%.
North America
At constant currency rates, sales increased
7.0% and operating proﬁt was up 13.0%.
Aerospace, IGT, and oil and gas all saw
improved demand from a combination
of market pickup and new outsourcing.
The locations which are heavily automotive
related saw a decline in the second half which,
based on industry forecasts, will continue
into 2005. The combination of price pressure
and increases in energy and employee beneﬁt
costs continues to squeeze margins. We are
now able to offer several high value added
services (Low Pressure Carburising, Electron
Beam Welding and Kolsterising of stainless
steel) to complement existing heat treating and
brazing services thus helping to improve margins
in the oversupplied North American market.
Central European Group (CEG)
At constant currency rates, sales grew 8.1%
and operating proﬁt was ahead 17.2%.
Although a difﬁcult environment for the
manufacturing sector of the economies
served by this SBU our strategies of pursuing
outsourcing work, transferring technology and
optimising operational efﬁciencies paid off.
The targeted capital investment in equipment
and people has allowed us to gain market share
while improving the mix of work processed.
All automotive focused facilities are now
certiﬁed to the stringent TS 16959 while most
facilities will achieve ISO 14001 environmental
certiﬁcation by the end of 2005. This positions
us in line with quality and responsibility
expectations of world class manufacturers.
Our network of East European facilities
was expanded at the start of 2005 by the
commissioning of a facility in Poland which
targets the high end aerospace and tooling
markets. We today announced the acquisition
of four well-resourced plants in Poland.
We anticipate continued growth in our
Eastern European operations during 2005
both organically and by acquisition.
France, Belgium, Italy (FBI)
At constant currency rates, sales improved
by 1.2% but operating proﬁt was ﬂat.
The challenges we face in France in particular
are market migration, price pressures, mix
change and cost creep. All facilities in France
are now ISO 9000-2000 certiﬁed. In addition
we now have several plants qualiﬁed to
the aerospace mandated quality program
ACMA-PRO which will be incorporated into
the North American originated equivalent
Nadcap in 2005. Belgium delivered modest
sales growth and moved into proﬁt after
rationalisation of 3 facilities into 2.
Nordic, UK (NUK)
At constant currency rates, NUK sales
increased 11.7% and operating proﬁt grew
36.0%. The sales growth was driven by
recovery of the IGT market and an increase
in outsourced work. All UK facilities are now
registered to the ISO 14001 environmental
standard. We now have 9 facilities Nadcap UK
accredited to meet mandates from several key
customers such as Rolls-Royce and Boeing.
Chief Executive’s Review
Bodycote annual report 2004 3
80267_56pp  3/15/05  10:53 AM  Page 3 Materials Testing
At constant currency rates, sales grew 11.2%
and operating proﬁt grew 13.3%.
By concentrating on the high value added
services, cross border selling and an industry
speciﬁc approach we have been able to gain
market share at most of our laboratories.
Sales increased in all geographies and margins
were maintained or improved, with progress
in Canada being notable. 
The USA saw an improvement in demand for
aerospace, high end automotive and oil & gas
testing but the gains were eroded by increased
people costs and price pressures. We have
won several signiﬁcant outsourcing contracts.
In the Middle East we successfully integrated
the laboratories acquired from Carillion plc in
2003 resulting in a 45.0% sales growth year
on year. Operating margin in the region was
somewhat reduced from last year as 2004 had
the tail end beneﬁts of a major construction
project that had run beyond the contractors
completion date. All facilities are now ISO
17025 accredited; such standards are unique
in the Gulf region and give us a competitive
advantage as blue chip clients are increasingly
insisting on these high standards to protect
their major investments in construction
projects such as the Dubai airport expansion.
The Canadian Group won signiﬁcant
outsourced contracts from major aerospace,
automotive prime and ﬁrst tier suppliers while
managing their costs well. In support of
stringent new emission controls stipulated
by the Environmental Protection Agency
regulations due to come in force in 2007,
we have invested in two advanced Heavy
Duty Transient Cells for testing emission
compliance in the heavy diesel engine market.
This investment will start to generate revenue
near the end of 2005.
UK and Europe had good sales growth based
on IGT, oil and gas, Health Sciences, and
Environmental markets.
HIP
At constant currency rates, sales increased
23.9% and operating proﬁt was up 113.4%. 
The sales growth was driven by an
unexpectedly large increase in IGT demand
for new and replacement parts. Aerospace
demand picked up slightly in the second
half of the year and is expected to maintain
this trend throughout 2005. The very high
operational gearing, evident in HIP during
the downturn in 2002 and 2003, rebounded
in our favour. Although margins recovered
from 13.0% to 22.5% we still have work
to do because the high investment in a HIP
facility require yet higher margins in order
to achieve an acceptable return on capital
employed. We continue to work on innovative
new applications in the powder consolidation
sector. The ALON ceramic project saw sales
increase 100% in 2004 but well behind
original expectations. Demand for Densal
®
treatment of aluminium castings showed
excellent progress in the European automotive
sector. Two large HIP units which were out of
service for a large part of the year will return
to service in the ﬁrst half of 2005. A used
HIP unit, previously acquired at low cost,
will be brought into service by the ﬁrst part of
2006 in anticipation of continued increasing
demand for IGT and recovering aerospace.
Surface Engineering
At constant currency rates and excluding PVD
and discontinued electroplating, sales grew
7.5% and operating proﬁt improved 49.6%.
Anodising and Organics
We are focused on developing this business
by transferring know-how and processes
between facilities and approaching customers
in a more organised manner to gain market
share based on technical capability.
Diffusion Bonding
Our K-Tech coatings continue to ﬁnd more
applications in the oil and gas, textile and
steel rolling sectors. Being an engineered
solutions business, we invest heavily in
developing and proving application beneﬁts.
The CoatAlloy
®
process, which dramatically
improves the performance and life of furnace
tubes in ethylene production plants, started up
in the second half of 2004. We experienced the
usual teething problems associated with new
processes. Technical issues are now resolved
with deliveries expected to commence in the
ﬁrst half of 2005.
Our two Sherardizing facilities were
consolidated into Wolverhampton, UK and
is now fully functional. This will improve
capacity utilisation, technical support and
proﬁtability. We have several opportunities
under development with customers in other
geographies of our network which could see
us install our ﬁrst Sherardizing process
capabilities outside the UK. To enhance our
market coverage we are installing for start
up in the ﬁrst half of 2005 the Distek process,
a modiﬁcation to Sherardizing, which allows
a thicker yet ductile layer to be diffused onto
the substrate. This process will offer
customers an environmentally friendly
alternative to galvanising.
We invested in expanded plasma spray
capacity in France to satisfy contracts with
suppliers to Airbus for plasma spray of
titanium honeycomb parts and expect sales
to start next year. We are planning to transfer
this technology to our UK facilities in 2005.
ACQUISITIONS, STRATEGIC
ALLIANCES AND DIVESTITURES
Several modest acquisitions were made
during the year, at a cost of £4.7m, with
the emphasis being to expand our Materials
Testing operations. Two oil and gas laboratories
were acquired in Canada with Hoogensen
Metallurgical Engineering Limited and an
environmental laboratory was added with
Clyde Analytical Limited of Greenock, Scotland.
After the year end, four UK environmental
and occupational hygiene sites were acquired
with Ensecon Laboratories Limited, expanding
our health science operations. A controlling
interest was also taken in a civil engineering
test laboratory in Qatar.
Chief Executive’s Review
4 Bodycote annual report 2004
80267_56pp  3/15/05  10:53 AM  Page 4 Haustrup Haerderi A/S heat treating in
Denmark strengthened our existing market
position and enabled us to rationalise our
facilities and provide access into the Northern
German market. 
Bird Electron Beam Corporation in Connecticut,
USA adds expanded know-how to our North
American Group in a technology that has proven
to be of value to key customers in Europe.
In addition, a signiﬁcant strategic event was
the formation of the second largest global
Physical Vapour Deposition (PVD) Group
resulting from the sale of our 10 PVD
operations to IonBond for £25.1m net of
costs, with Bodycote taking an initial 15%
equity position in the enlarged Group, which
was increased to 20% in early 2005 at a total
cost of £7.3m. This move is in line with our
strategy of growing high value niche
businesses whilst managing the risk.
The combined Group will trade under the
IonBond name (capital ‘B’ in IonBond being
the red centred Bodycote ‘B’ trademark) and
has pro forma sales in 2004 of £53.2m and
operates from 30 locations in 12 countries
with more than 600 employees. A long-term
cross selling agreement has been put in place
under which Bodycote will continue to offer
IonBond’s PVD services to our extensive
multinational client base and IonBond will
market Bodycote’s heat treatment, materials
testing and hot isostatic pressing services.
The strategic alliance establishes the technical
skills and geographic scope to provide global
blue-chip manufacturers with critical solutions.
PVD is used in manufacturing to improve
mechanical, tribological and decorative
properties of components beyond those
achievable by traditional methods and in an
environmentally safe manner. Market and
customer synergies between PVD and heat
treating will be enhanced through the additional
coverage offered by this focused strategic
alliance, which has made an encouraging start.
The divestiture of electroplating has almost
been completed with the major loss making
facilities divested in the ﬁrst half and the
remainder sold in the second half. Sales and
losses before goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items were £19.4m and £3.0m
respectively compared to £26.0m and £6.8m
in 2003. A total £37.4m exceptional write
down has been taken of which £7.4m has
been charged in the 2004 accounts, the
balance of £30.0m having been provided in
2003. During 2004 disposal proceeds net of
costs were £1.9m. We have retained the 5
highly successful anodising and organic coating
businesses located in Sweden, Finland and
Germany and will continue to develop this
small specialised coatings group. We believe
anodising has signiﬁcant growth potential
due to the highly fragmented market and
increased use of aluminium in manufacturing.
SAFETY, HEALTH AND
ENVIRONMENTAL (SHE)
SHE has always been of major importance
in our business and in 2004 we initiated an
enhanced Group wide measurement and
benchmarking system to help us better
understand the reasons and root cause of
accidents occurring within the Group, improve
awareness among the employees, change
behaviour and drive our accident rate towards
our ultimate goal: zero. The unfortunate loss
of life by two of our key team members at
the Hereford HIP operation underlines the
necessity of constant vigilance on the part
of all of us. Just as in every other area of our
business, we work on continuously improving
our understanding and consistent application
of safety procedures throughout the Group.
We are funding a research project with the
University of Southern California to advance
safety procedures.
CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS
The New Year has started as expected.
With IGT markets having recovered strongly
in 2004 we anticipate this sector will show
more modest growth in 2005. Aerospace
showed a slight increase in 2004 and we
anticipate the pace of growth will remain
steady throughout 2005. Automotive, which
has been forecast to turn down for some
time, saw a slowdown in North America,
in particular in the second half of 2004,
and we anticipate demand in 2005 will remain
soft for that market. The Tooling market has
continued to decline due to manufacturing
of tools and dies being transferred to areas
of lower cost where Bodycote does not
currently have a signiﬁcant presence.
People are our number one resource.
We will continue to focus our management
efforts on improving the productivity and
effectiveness of our human resources.
Energy, our number two cost, is anticipated
to remain relatively high but we expect to
continue to pass most of these costs on to
our customers. 
Overall we expect to continue our performance
recovery through our continuous self help
programmes, improving market demand and
disciplined investments in capital and value
enhancing acquisitions.
John D. Hubbard
1 March 2005
Bodycote annual report 2004 5
80267_56pp  3/15/05  10:53 AM  Page 5
