 6
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Operational review
The operational priority for the
first part of the year ended
31 December 2015 was to absorb
the two acquisitions completed at
the end of 2014 and to complete
the acquisition of the Friends Life
book of schemes, ultimately
acquired in March 2015. This resulted in considerable
investment in terms of time and staﬃng in Bristol to
integrate these books of SIPPs into Curtis Banks. 
In the latter part of the year, the 10 year administration
contract of Zurich SIPPs was awarded to Curtis Banks and
recruitment of staﬀ at our Market Harborough oﬃce took
place in order to service this new contract. As with all the
acquisitions carried out to date there is an initially high
investment of time, both leading up to the acquisition and
then integrating the new books acquired with Curtis Banks’
systems and processes, before the full benefit of the
acquisitions can be realised.
The most recent and substantial development for Curtis
Banks has been the exchange of contracts in January 2016
with Legal & General Retail Investments (Holdings) Limited
for the acquisition of Suﬀolk Life Group Limited. We believe
that Suﬀolk Life has a strong heritage, culture and client
focus which we share at Curtis Banks. We will retain Suﬀolk
Life’s headquarters in Ipswich and believe there will be
continuity for clients and exciting opportunities for Suﬀolk
Life’s management and employees as part of the enlarged
group.
The acquisition of Suﬀolk Life is conditional on regulatory
approval that is expected in the second quarter of 2016
which, once completed, will double the size of Curtis Banks
in terms of number of SIPP schemes administered and
turnover.
SIPP numbers
New Full SIPP numbers from organic growth in the year
were 2,386. Compared to the previous year (2014: 2,046)
this shows an impressive growth of 17% and growth of 19%
over the forecast for the year. The number of SIPPs
administered as at 31 December 2015 totalled 21,423 Full
SIPPs, 6,529 eSIPPs and 11,284 SIPPs administered under
third party administration contracts. The increased staﬀ
numbers, as well as working on books of SIPPs acquired,
have been used to support this strong organic growth in
Full SIPPs during the year.
The attrition rate for the year has increased from 3.2% to
4.9% as a result of high rates of attrition on books acquired
during the year. These rates, that existed at the date of
acquisition, have been significantly reduced since that date.
The average revenue per SIPP has fallen to £620 (excluding
SIPPs administered under outsourcing contracts) in the
year 31 December 2015 from £789 for the year ended
31 December 2014. This is attributable to the eﬀect of the
lower revenues from the eSIPP book acquired as part of the
Pointon York acquisition in October 2014. eSIPPs have a
lower fee structure but are less expensive to administer,
hence maintaining margins, as they are on-line products.
The full impact of this has been felt in 2015 whilst the
results for the year ended 31 December 2014 only included
two months of these revenues. In addition, other sources of
revenue for the newly acquired books of business have yet
to be fully developed.
Our market and products
The changes in pension legislation over the past two
budgets have to date had little impact on the business of
Curtis Banks other than implicitly driving the growth levels
in new SIPPs. The Group has seen no significant increase in
withdrawals as a result of the new pension freedom abilities.
All products, systems and literature of Curtis Banks have
however been updated to reflect the changes and allow
clients to fully take advantage of the new rules where
allowed.
In addition, a new product has been designed specifically to
address Pension Freedom. This is a short term pension
drawdown product that allows clients simple on-line access
to their funds, held in cash, with no transactional costs each
time a withdrawal takes place. The product has been
targeted initially to the financial intermediary market.
Systems and personnel
Development continues of the new operating system for
the Group that will replace the current number of systems
in place. The new system will allow more eﬃcient and
robust processing of data and enhance on-line ability for
clients and introducers of business as well as delivering a
standard system across the whole of Curtis Banks. It is
expected that the first stage of the implementation of the
new system will take place in the second half of the current
year.
Strategic report continued
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Curtis Bank pp01-11  19/04/2016  16:48  Page 6 7
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
I am pleased to welcome Richard Valentine to the Group.
Richard joined mid last year as COO and brings a depth of
experience gained with other SIPP Providers to strengthen
our management team. 
As a result of the exceptional growth of the business over the
past year additional staﬀ have been recruited to strengthen
the provision of general support services. Staﬀ numbers in
Curtis Banks have increased from 181 staﬀ as at 31 December
2014 to 273 as at 31 December 2015, principally in Bristol
where all the main support functions are located. This
additional staﬃng will continue as considered necessary to
be at a level expected to be adequate to support future
projected organic growth and provide the service levels
expected.
Rupert Curtis
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
14 March 2016
Strategic report continued
Curtis Bank pp01-11  19/04/2016  16:48  Page 7
