 4
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
Overview
I am pleased to present the first set
of annual results for Curtis Banks as
a listed company for the year ended
31 December 2015. 
The 12 months have been an active
period of growth for the Group and
one in which we have completed two significant
transactions, continued to deliver increasing rates of
organic growth and listed the shares of Curtis Banks on the
AIM market of the London Stock Exchange. 
Revenues for the period increased by 69% from
£10.1 million to £17.0 million, compared to the previous
year, and operating profit increased from £3.2 million to
£4.2 million. These results are all the more impressive
given that we have absorbed costs associated with the
two transactions, their integration and the flotation.
Operating profits before these costs, and amortisation,
increased from £3.7 million to £6.1 million when compared
to the previous year.
The results for the year do not fully reflect the contribution
of our two transactions in the year. The first was the
acquisition of a client book from Friends Life PLC (now
Aviva PLC). The acquisition completed on 13 March 2015
and hence the operating revenues for the year only include
nine months of contribution from this source. The second
was our appointment to replace Capita as SIPP
administrators to a significant book of Zurich SIPPs in
November 2015. This is a 10 year contract with guaranteed
revenues of £1.25 million p.a. in the first two years. The full
benefit of both of these transactions will be seen in the year
ending 31 December 2016 and beyond. 
We continue to grow organically and develop our
introducer network to extend our reach and to further
diversify our introducer relationships. New well established
introducers continue to be attracted to our service level
proposition reflecting the on-going success of our strategy.
Board
As part of our recent admission to AIM, your Board was
enhanced by three key Non-Executive Directors, Chris
Macdonald (Chief Executive of Brooks Macdonald), Bill
Rattray (Finance Director of Aberdeen Asset Management
plc) and Jules Hydleman (former Chairman of Innocent
Drinks). All three bring a wealth of relevant experience and
expertise to the Board and their agreement to accept
positions as Non-Executive Directors expresses their
confidence in the future of the Group.
Dividends
Your Board has declared an interim dividend of 3.5p per
share that was paid on 26 February 2016. No final dividend
will be paid in respect of the year ended 31 December 2015
but it is the expectation that an interim dividend and final
dividend will be declared for the current financial year and
going forward.
Summary and outlook
The results reflect significant progress over the period under
review and this was an important year in the evolution of
Curtis Banks. We expect 2016 to likewise be an equally
important year. On 15 January 2016 we exchanged
contracts with Legal & General Retail Investments
(Holdings) Limited to acquire Suﬀolk Life Group Limited.
This is subject to regulatory approval. 
Suﬀolk Life is one of the oldest and most respected brands
in the SIPP industry, with an excellent reputation for service
and professionalism. We are delighted that Legal & General
has chosen us to take ownership of this business and
believe this reflects our strong standing and market
reputation. Suﬀolk Life is based in Ipswich with
239 employees. Suﬀolk Life manages approximately
26,500 SIPPs, with £8.7 billion of assets under administration.
Suﬀolk Life has a strong reputation for SIPP property
expertise. The acquisition of Suﬀolk Life, once completed,
will also enhance the earnings for the current year and
elevate Curtis Banks to the second largest independent SIPP
provider in the UK.
With the increased regulatory environment for SIPP
operators and forthcoming changes to capital adequacy
rules we are seeing a continuing consolidation in the
industry. We are being regularly approached by SIPP
operators looking for an exit for a variety of reasons and we
are evaluating opportunities as they come to us. Whilst it is
one of our objectives to grow the business by acquisition as
well as organically we will only consider acquisitions of high
quality books of SIPPs that we know can provide at least the
level of operating margins we are currently achieving. The
recent admission to AIM has provided us with the resources
and ability to consider and fund all levels of acquisition as
can be demonstrated by the recent exchange of contracts
to acquire Suﬀolk Life Group Limited.
Strategic report continued
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Curtis Bank pp01-11  19/04/2016  16:48  Page 4 5
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2015
It is against this backdrop that we consider the environment
to be favourable for our current growth strategy. Your Board
looks forward with optimism to further growing Curtis
Banks both organically and acquisitively for the benefit of its
shareholders.
Finally, I would like to thank all the staﬀ in the Group,
including my fellow Executive Directors, for their hard work
and dedication over a period that has seen so much
transition in our business. It is an exciting time for Curtis
Banks and we look forward to delivering on the Group’s
potential.
Christopher Banks
Executive Chairman
14 March 2016
Strategic report continued
Curtis Bank pp01-11  19/04/2016  16:48  Page 5
