 4
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Overview
I am pleased to present the second
set of annual results for Curtis Banks
as a listed company, for the year
ended 31 December 2016.
We report continued growth
combined with progress towards
aligning our businesses and
developing our infrastructure.
Growth
The acquisition of Suﬀolk Life Group in May 2016 delivered
a positive contribution during the second half year, coming
on top of continued strong organic growth through the
reporting period. The full financial benefits of the
acquisition of Suﬀolk Life will be delivered in the current
reporting year and beyond, however other benefits are
already being realised. We are delighted to welcome the
strong Suﬀolk Life management team to the Group and are
working with them to strengthen our position as the largest
dedicated SIPP provider in the UK. 
In July 2016 we completed a further acquisition, of a book
of circa 5,000 SIPPs from European Pensions Management
Ltd, increasing the Group’s administered plans to over
72,000.
Growth was also driven by full year contributions from the
pension books acquired from Friends Life and the Zurich
administration contract that completed in 2015.
We continue to grow and develop our introducer network
without reliance on any one introducer for a significant
portion of our business. New well-established introducers
continue to be attracted to our service level proposition.
Infrastructure
Our focus during the year has been the consolidation of the
growth over the past two years and development of our
business proposition. This growth has required higher staﬀ
numbers, principally in middle management and support,
as new books of business are aligned with the Group’s
existing robust processes and procedures contributing
toward reduced yet still healthy operating margins in the
reporting period. Development work to align books of
business and deliver operational eﬃciencies has also begun.
Continued investment and resource will be required before
the benefits are fully realised. 
In the second half of the year we delivered a key alignment
of Suﬀolk Life’s SIPP banking systems, to those already
operated within the Group. The financial benefit will be
delivered in full during the current reporting period.
Stability of interest rates in recent months provides hope of
retaining margins close to those currently being achieved
by the Group’s newly co-ordinated central treasury function
The development of our business proposition is focussed
on aligning our business, combining the best of the existing
operations of Curtis Banks and Suﬀolk Life. A strategy has
been put in place that focusses on opportunities which are
expected to be revenue enhancing and identify where
eﬃciencies and cost savings can be made.
A key decision for early in 2017 is the direction of our
IT strategy; the Chief Executive’s Report provides more
detail on this. The solution chosen will ultimately be the
best for the Group over the longer term.
People
I am pleased to welcome Will Self to the Board as deputy
CEO. Will joined the Board in August 2016, maintaining his
role as Chief Executive Oﬃcer of Suﬀolk Life, and has a
wealth of experience on both the SIPP industry and the
operations of Suﬀolk Life. 
During the year we introduced a Share Save Option Scheme
to enable staﬀ to participate in the success of the Group.
This was well received and more than half of our
600 employees participated in the Scheme. Shortly after
the year end we also introduced an Employee Benefit Trust.
Dividends
Your Board paid interim dividends of 3.5p per share on
26 February 2016 and 1.0p per share on 15 November 2016
in respect of the years ended 31 December 2015 and
31 December 2016. A further interim dividend of 3p per
share will be paid to shareholders on the register at the
close of business on 28 April 2017. The shares will be
marked ex-dividend on 27 April 2017 and the dividend paid
on 12 May 2017. 
Summary and outlook
The year reflects positive progress for the Group with
continued organic growth and successful acquisitions.
The decisions and investments made to enhance our
infrastructure will secure important capability to support
future development and growth of the business.
Strategic report continued
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Curtis Bank pp01-12  12/04/2017  19:27  Page 4 5
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
The outlook for 2017 is strong. We continue to be
approached by SIPP operators looking for an exit for a
variety of reasons and we evaluate opportunities as they
come to us. We will only consider acquisitions of high
quality books of SIPPs where we have confidence that they
can provide at least the required level of operating margins.
Admission to AIM has provided us with the resources and
ability to consider and fund all levels of acquisition.
The implementation of the BREXIT vote should have
minimal eﬀect on the operations of the Group. All our
business is UK based and we have no exposure to Europe.
Our fees are fixed sterling monetary amounts and as such
insulated from any adverse market or currency movements.
We are not reliant on free movement of labour across
Europe.
Our strategy for the future is set out in detail in the Chief
Executive’s review. The focus of our business will be to
deliver on this strategy, aligning and developing the two
businesses of Curtis Banks and Suﬀolk Life for the benefit of
shareholders.
The continued development of Curtis Banks is the result of
the hard work of our staﬀ Group-wide. I would like to take
this opportunity to thank them all.
We continue to be inspired by the opportunity for Curtis
Banks and believe the current strategy and economic
environment to be complementary. We look forward to
updating the market on further achievements in 2017.
Christopher Banks
Chairman
23 March 2017
Strategic report continued
Curtis Bank pp01-12  12/04/2017  19:27  Page 5
