 6
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
Operational review
The beginning of the year under
review marked the full integration
of the two transactions that
completed in 2015: the acquisition
of the Friends Life book of
schemes and the Zurich third
party administration
arrangements. We recruited more staﬀ, principally during
the first half of the year, to service the enlarged Group with
support and management functions, to deliver change and
ensure that thorough and eﬃcient procedures are being
followed throughout the Group.
In January 2016 we exchanged contracts for the significant
acquisition of the Suﬀolk Life Group of companies.
Considerable due diligence was carried out on this
operation prior to that date, using both internal and
external resources. During the period from exchange of
contracts to completion we worked closely with the
management of Suﬀolk Life to understand their operations
and began to plan the optimum way forward for the
combined Group. Unlike previous acquisitions, where the
Group had acquired a book of SIPPs, in this case we
acquired the entire corporate structure and, when the
acquisition completed in May, we gained the benefit of all
the existing management, staﬀ and systems. 
The Suﬀolk Life operation has a strong and experienced
management team that ran this business as a stand-alone
operation under the Legal & General umbrella. This
continued in the year under review as part of the Group,
however the current focus is on merging the two
operations as much as possible to identify operational
synergies and eﬃciencies. Delivering these, as well as
developing revenue enhancing opportunities for both
businesses, will ensure the margins achievable are
enhanced across the whole Group. 
The operating structures, culture and quality of work at
Suﬀolk Life are similar to those of Curtis Banks, and we are
confident that we can apply best practice in each company,
with the combined operations being significantly stronger
than the component parts. The Suﬀolk Life acquisition
brought circa 28,000 SIPPs to the Group with circa
£10 billion of assets under administration. As at
31 December 2016, 300 staﬀ work for Suﬀolk Life, all based
in Ipswich. Combined staﬀ meetings already take place on a
regular basis to exchange ideas and take action where there
is synergy and duplication of resources across the Group.
Your Board has spent considerable time formulating the
strategy of the Company going forward and has identified
five primary statements of our strategic objectives: 
1. Meet changing customer needs – adapting to the
changing needs of the UK population and regulatory
environment to be the SIPP provider of choice both
pre and post- retirement. 
2. Capitalise on the right opportunities for growth –
Focus on profitable areas of organic market growth
and selective acquisitions of well-aligned books or
businesses, with a clear business identity 
3. Enhance revenue generation – extend proven
revenue generation activities across the wider group
and continually review fee income relative to the
services provided 
4. Drive eﬃciency through technology – continue
technology advances appropriate to the business to
deliver improved margins through eﬃciency and
improved service to customers 
5. Maintain a robust and sustainable business model –
market leading governance, capitalisation and robust
systems to ensure a sustainable long term business
and confidence for our business partners, customers
and shareholders. 
Beneath these strategic objectives an action plan has been
defined that sets out the internal initiatives in order to
deliver the strategy above. The business will focus on
delivering this strategy.
SIPP Numbers and Revenues
New SIPP numbers for both Full and mid SIPPs (Full SIPPs
with one integrated investment relationship) from organic
growth in the year for Curtis Banks were 2,750. Compared to
the previous year (2015: 2,386) this shows an impressive
growth of 15%. For Suﬀolk Life, since acquisition in May
2016, new Full and mid SIPPs totalled 648. The number of
SIPPs administered by the Group as at 31 December 2016
totalled 21,060 Full SIPPs, 23,277 mid SIPPs, 18,143 eSIPPs
and 10,503 SIPPs administered under third party
administration contracts. The increased staﬀ numbers have
been used to support this strong organic growth in Full
SIPPs during the year, as well as working on books of SIPPs
acquired.
The attrition rate for the year has remained comparable to
the previous year at 5%.
Strategic report continued
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Curtis Bank pp01-12  12/04/2017  19:27  Page 6 7
Curtis Banks Group PLC Annual Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
The average revenue per SIPP has fallen to £574 (excluding
SIPPs administered under outsourcing contracts) in the year
31 December 2016 from £620 for the year ended
31 December 2015. This is attributable to the eﬀect of the
lower interest rates received on client deposits during the
year and interest margins only being received of the Suﬀolk
Life books of SIPPs from late in the year. On average 88% of
the revenue per Full SIPP is derived from fees and the
balance from interest. Average total revenues from Full
SIPPs were £1,207, £379 from mid SIPPs and £124 from
eSIPPs.
Our market and products
The changes to pension legislation over the past three
Budgets have, to date, had little impact on the business of
Curtis Banks other than implicitly driving the growth levels
in new SIPPs by increasing the flexibilities available. The
Group has experienced no significant increase in
withdrawals as a result of the new pension freedom abilities.
All products, systems and literature of Curtis Banks and the
Group companies have however been updated to reflect
the changes and allow clients to take full advantage of the
new rules where allowed.
Through acquisitions the Group has taken on a number of
diﬀerent products. Work has begun on aligning these
products to bring consistency of features, terms and
conditions, thus enhancing product management and
strengthening governance.
The Group acquired additional marketing and brand
capability through the purchase of Suﬀolk Life. A review of
the Group brand strategy began in the reporting year, with
implementation and delivery anticipated during the current
year.
IT strategy
As reported in previous years, we are reviewing the back
oﬃce operating systems in place throughout the Group.
Prior to the acquisition of Suﬀolk Life in May 2016, all
acquisitions of SIPP business made by the Group were
integrated onto the current operating systems used by
Curtis Banks. A specific new operating system has been
under review for the past two years and considerable time
and expense incurred on evaluating and developing this
potentially more eﬃcient back oﬃce system as a
replacement. 
The decision as to which new operating system to adopt
will be based on the most commercially appropriate and
operationally eﬀective system over the longer term. It will
deliver a pathway to the most eﬃcient processing for the
Group’s products and services, and will allow for automation
of many of the manual processes currently incurred. This
will lead to improved margins and profitability for the
Group. 
As well as the core operating system, work is being done to
align and develop ancillary systems and processes, to
deliver increased functionality and eﬃciencies. We see
significant opportunities to deliver a more eﬀective
operating model across the whole group.
People
As a result of the exceptional growth of the business over
the past few years additional staﬀ have been recruited to
strengthen the provision of general support services. Staﬀ
numbers were increased across the Group, principally in
Bristol. Staﬀ resource is now considered to be at the level
necessary to support current business levels and provide
the service levels expected using current systems and
processes. 
Rupert Curtis
Chief Executive Oﬃcer
23 March 2017
Strategic report continued
Curtis Bank pp01-12  12/04/2017  19:27  Page 7
