 Acertec plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3
Acertec achieved strong organic growth in 2006, increasing
turnover from continuing operations by 16% to £324.7 million
(2005: £280.8 million) and total operating proﬁt from continuing
operations, before amortisation and exceptional items, by 30%
to £16.2 million (2005: £12.5 million). Total Group turnover,
including discontinued operations, reduced to £331.7 million
(2005: £368.9 million) whilst total operating proﬁt, including our
share of joint ventures, increased to £10.2 million (2005: loss
of £3.5 million).
The biggest contributor to this improvement was the Stadco
division, reﬂecting its recovery following the MG Rover collapse
in 2005.
BRC Division
T urnover, including joint ventures, increased by 30% to £183.9
million (2005: £141.6 million) and total operating proﬁt, excluding
goodwill amortisation, increased by 11% to £9.2 million (2005:
£8.3 million); total operating proﬁt after goodwill amortisation
increased by 7% to £8.0 million (2005: £7.5 million). A relatively
weak ﬁrst half year, which saw operating proﬁts held back by
margin pressures, caused by industry over-capacity in both the
UK and Asia, turned into a much stronger second half, with
volumes and margins both improving satisfactorily. BRC in the
UK ended 2006 with a record order book, some 40% above
the comparable position in the previous year.
The underlying strength of the construction sector in the UK is
spread across most areas of infrastructure spending.
Developments in power generation, water treatment, transport,
oil and gas storage facilities, hospitals and schools are all
playing a part in the buoyancy of the sector and BRC has won
signiﬁcant contracts in all of these areas. Prospects for further
projects are strong, even without any contribution from the
2012 Olympics which should start to materialise late in 2007.
The Specialty Products operations within the division continued
to perform strongly. In the Geotechnical sector , civil engineering
projects for soil and strata control are continuing to grow,
offsetting the diminishing level of demand from the coal mining
sector. In mainstream construction sectors, BRC has seen
growing acceptance of its established specialty product range,
with recently introduced innovative products also making good
progress.
The addition, in early 2006, of a range of balcony and
architectural steelwork products to the portfolio, via the
acquisition of Capital Structures plc, brought some issues of
poorly priced legacy contracts and inadequate control
procedures. These have now been worked through and I
expect these products to make a valuable contribution to the
division’s results in 2007.
Our joint venture operation in Ireland, BRC McMahon, continued
to produce good results, with softer margins being offset by rising
sales volumes, beneﬁting from the strength of the construction
sector in the Republic of Ireland. In June 2006, BRC McMahon
acquired Buchanan Wire Products Limited, a small welded
mesh manufacturer in Northern Ireland. This acquisition will give
us a greater presence in the buoyant construction market in
the North.
BRC Asia continued to make steady progress. In a construction
industry that is recovering well from its major setback in
2000/2001, BRC has diversiﬁed into a wider range of engineered
reinforcement products. This change of focus has been very
successful, with heavy prefabricated structures now making up
a signiﬁcant portion of turnover, in addition to BRC’s traditional
welded mesh products.
BRC’s joint venture operation in China continued to show
modest success in supplying welded mesh to the construction
industry in Eastern China. A large new factory has been
constructed, giving increased capacity for 2007.
Whilst the UK weather has not been kind to construction in
the early part of 2007 and the industry in Singapore has been
affected by shortages of sand and aggregates, the outlook
for BRC in 2007 is good, with favourable conditions in its key
markets. BRC plans both to strengthen its market position
and to improve its margins through increased sales of high
margin engineered products. This expansion will require
capital investment, a process which started in the latter part of
2006 and which will increase in 2007. This will leave BRC well
positioned to beneﬁt from the strength of its markets, which is
expected to continue in the medium term.
Stadco Division
T urnover from continuing operations increased to £140.8 million
(2005: £139.2 million). Total operating proﬁt from continuing
operations, excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items, increased by 67% to £10.5 million (2005: £6.3 million);
total operating proﬁt, including discontinued operations, after
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items increased to £9.9
million (2005: loss of £6.6 million).
Stadco performed well in 2006, more than replacing the volume
lost after MG Rover collapsed in April 2005. Increased sales to
Land Rover (Discovery, Range Rover, Sport), Ford (Focus),
Aston Martin, BMW (Mini) and to Jaguar for the new XK all
contributed to this growth.
The major reorganisation project that Stadco undertook
following the collapse of MG Rover was completed in
September 2006. Stadco’s factories in Halewood and Tipton
have been closed and the operations in Coventry have been
downsized signiﬁcantly. A major press line was relocated from
Coventry to the plant in Shrewsbury and further work was
transferred to the plant in Powys. This reorganisation project
absorbed signiﬁcant management resource throughout the
year and it will be some months yet before all of Stadco’s
operations are back at full productivity.
Chief Executive’s Review 4 Acertec plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Stadco beneﬁted from an unusual level of engineering and
tooling related revenues in the ﬁrst half of 2006, but performance
weakened in the second half without the beneﬁt of these
revenues and with lower volumes of key vehicle models which
were being replaced. Land Rover Freelander volumes fell
sharply in the second half year ahead of the replacement
product launch in November, and production of the BMW Mini
was also reduced somewhat ahead of the December launch
of the new Mini. Margins on new business were lower owing
to competitive conditions.
Stadco’s underlying business is unlikely to improve in 2007.
There will be gains from signiﬁcant cost and efﬁciency
improvements in the downsized UK structure and from higher
volumes on the new Mini and Freelander. These will, however,
probably be offset by declining volumes in some of the more
mature products, by lower unit margins in the new programmes
and the absence of signiﬁcant engineering projects this year.
Beyond 2007, Stadco’s prospects are encouraging, with work
having been won on two additional new models from existing
customers, which will be launched early in 2008. For the
medium term, Stadco is continuing to devote signiﬁcant
management and other resources to extending the geographic
reach of its business, particularly into Russia, and we are
optimistic that this will generate signiﬁcant incremental business
on a 2-3 year horizon.
Prospects
Overall, we expect that Acertec will make good progress in
2007. We anticipate that the mix between Stadco and BRC
will change, compared with 2006, with strong growth in BRC
being countered by more difﬁcult conditions in Stadco’s
business.
The medium term outlook for both of our businesses is positive.
For BRC, the prospects for continuing growth in the construction
markets in the UK and in Singapore are promising, and Stadco
should continue to beneﬁt from the trend towards the
outsourcing of Body-in-White in Europe, from extending 
its geographic coverage, and from supplier consolidation in
the sector.
John Sword
Chief Executive
22 March 2007
Chief Executive’s Review continued
