 8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
CHAir MAn’S STATeMen T
r eview of the year
The coming year will see Dairy Crest celebrate the 20th 
anniversary of its listing on the London Stock Exchange. Since 
its flotation in 1996, Dairy Crest has reshaped itself from a 
supply-driven commoditised business to a lean, branded and 
added value business. The transformational sale of our Dairies 
business in December 2015, and the completion of our functional 
ingredients investment in Davidstow this year, mark a step change 
in our evolution and, with innovation at our core, position us well 
for future growth.
This financial year, we are pleased to announce a set of 
results which show the underlying robustness of our business. 
With annual sales of £422.3 million and margins of over 15%, the 
branded business has performed well in what is a challenging, 
deflationary market. Our functional ingredients business is an area 
of increased focus and investment with strong growth prospects, 
broadening the company’s product base and geographic markets. 
This is complementary to our strong UK branded grocery 
business led by the country’s largest cheese brand, Cathedral 
City, which is in nearly 60% of UK households and is the 16th 
largest grocery brand in the UK ranked by retail sales.
Transformational Sale of Dairies
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mark Allen and Tom 
Atherton for their focus, drive and determination in leading the sale 
of the Dairies business. The transaction was extremely prolonged 
and challenging but completion was fundamental to delivering on 
our future strategy. It is a testament to the senior management 
team that the transaction was ultimately completed and that the 
day to day running of the business was not impacted during 
this time. A number of former Dairy Crest employees transferred 
to Muller UK & Ireland Group LLP (‘Müller’) as part of the deal. 
I would like to thank all of them for their commitment to Dairy 
Crest. In particular, I would like to thank Mike Sheldon, Managing 
Director of the Dairies business, for his outstanding contribution 
to Dairy Crest over many years. He left the company with our best 
wishes for the future.
investing for the future
We have now completed our investment at our cheese factory 
at Davidstow, Cornwall. We are producing demineralised whey, 
an added value by-product of the cheese-making process. 
Demineralised whey is the base ingredient for infant formula. 
We have also started manufacturing GOS at the plant. GOS is a 
prebiotic which is added into premium infant formula to help aid 
digestion and growth in babies. Both of these products are to be 
marketed and sold by our partner, Fonterra. 
We also continue to research other potential applications for 
GOS, in both human nutrition and animal feed.
Putting innovation at the core
HRH The Princess Royal officially opened the new Dairy Crest 
Innovation Centre at Harper Adams University in April 2016. 
This exciting facility will ensure that innovation is at the very core 
of Dairy Crest’s business. We have a successful track record 
of delivering consumer-focused innovation in packaging and 
New Product Development (‘NPD’). Last year, over 11 per cent 
of revenue from our key brands was from products less than 
three years old. The Innovation Centre is on the Harper Adams 
University campus, giving us access to leading food and agri-
tech research. This relationship has started extremely well with a 
number of students already working within our business. 
o ur culture and values
Dairy Crest remains committed to doing the right thing in the way 
we conduct ourselves and do business. We have been recognised 
for our work in this area by finishing top of the Business in the 
Community (‘BITC’) Index in 2014 and 2015. Following the sale of the 
Dairies business, we are now updating our corporate responsibility 
strategy to ensure we continue to lead the field in this area.
increased dividend recommended
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16.0 pence per 
share, making a full year dividend of 22.1 pence per share. In line 
with our progressive dividend policy, this is a 1.8% increase on last 
year. The dividend is covered 1.6 times by adjusted basic earnings 
per share. A key part of our strategy going forward, will be to 
continue to increase dividends year on year, aiming for a target 
cover range of 1.5 to 2.5 times.
Summary
The Board remains confident in the future prospects for Dairy 
Crest. The business has a strong management team which is 
delivering against a clear business strategy of building brands, 
adding value, driving simplicity and managing risk. 
Stephen Alexander Chairman
18 May 2016
•	
Combined volumes of four 
key brands up 2%
•	
Cathedral City grows 
revenue and volumes in 
a period of continuing, 
significant price deflation
•	
Improved Clover and 
Country Life performance in 
the second half of the year; 
Frylight continues to grow 
strongly
•	
Profit margins from 
continuing operations 
maintained after a strong 
second half of the year
•	
Production and sales of 
demineralised whey and 
GOS have commenced
•	
Transformational sale of 
Dairies business completed 
on 26 December 2015
•	
Strong underlying cash 
generation from the 
continuing business
•	
Proposed final dividend up 
1.9% to 16.0 pence 
Highlights
