 Daily Internet Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016 9
chief executive officer’s report
Introduction
On entering this financial year we set ourselves a number of objectives, including the restructuring of our SME Mass Market 
division and an increased focus on growing our higher margin Managed Hosting division, while extending the average 
contract length of our larger Managed Hosting customers.  
I am pleased to report that we have been successful in delivering on all of our objectives. The re-organisation was 
completed in the second half of our financial year and the Managed Hosting division now forms the majority of our 
revenues and remains the primary focus going forward. We also succeeded in ensuring our larger customers were 
contracted for longer term periods (the majority of which for three years). This has provided the Group with improved 
visibility of earnings and improved margins.
Our SME Mass Market division delivered an EBITDA contribution to the Group of £0.56m (2015: £0.28m) whilst Managed 
Hosting contributed £0.74m (2015: £0.57m). Group adjusted EBITDA was £0.67m, (after central costs of £0.63m) an 
increase of 62.0% (2015: £0.41m).  
Operational Review
Managed Hosting division
Our Managed Hosting division has maintained its strength in Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard hosting (“PCI 
DSS”). We are a Level 1 Visa certified Service Provider and we consider this a strong differentiator to many of our peers. 
The PCI DSS business has continued to perform well with an overall trend of increasing customer spend. In particular, 
our largest customer renewed and extended the scope of its contract to bring in additional projects and add ‘compute 
and storage’ capacity to existing resources. This contracted revenue provides considerable forward visibility. We are also 
seeing an increase in consulting revenue as more of our customers seek help with their overall IT solution, this has in turn 
assisted in driving further contracted managed services.
The specialist Merchant and Distribution division of our Managed Hosting business delivered solid growth with a number 
of key strategic client wins in its sector. We furthered our partnership with Epicor software which, the Directors’ believe, 
provides the most advanced Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) solution to the Merchant and Distribution industry in 
the form of their BisTrack suite of products. Our knowledge of this software application has driven consulting revenue and 
has assisted in creating the differentiator in this sector for our managed services providing a relatively unique one-stop 
specialist service to this vertical.
We developed a platform for a subset of Epicor customers effectively allowing them to purchase BisTrack application in a 
Software as a Service (“SaaS”) model. Work with Epicor is continuing to build a joint sales pipeline for this SaaS product 
and other managed services.
Our technical team has also developed a cost effective disaster recovery solution. This solution utilises the Amazon Web 
Services (“AWS”) public cloud platform allowing our customers to benefit from the ‘pay as you use’ elements of public 
cloud. We continue to work on other offerings which can leverage a basket of technologies to bring best of breed solutions 
to our clients in a cost effective manner.
strategic report Daily Internet Plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10
We have continued to invest in our Managed Hosting business adding a number of key recruits to expand our technical 
capabilities. In addition, we continue to invest in our staff, providing technical training and certification. Alongside this we 
are tracking commercial trends so that we can continue to evolve and capitalise on changes within the Managed Hosting 
landscape.
SME Mass Market division
During the second half of the financial year we completed the re-organisation of our SME Mass Market business. This 
included the closure of one of our offices; the centralisation of a number of functions, including the removal of some 
duplicated roles across the Group; and a simplification of management reporting lines. The overall effect was to reduce 
staff numbers to a level more appropriate to the lower levels of growth expected from this segment. This re-organisation 
improved overall EBITDA margin and ensured we could focus our efforts on capitalising on the growing opportunities in the 
more profitable Managed Hosting division, where gross profit is higher and contracts are typically longer term.
Acquisitions
The businesses acquired in the previous financial year, being Evohosting and Q4Ex (which now trades as Netplan), have 
been fully integrated and continue to perform well.
The Board continues to evaluate acquisitions opportunities to supplement our organic growth but these must fit the 
board’s stringent acquisition criteria.
Current Trading and Outlook
Trading since the financial year-end has been in line with management expectations. During the year we repaid the 
remaining outstanding convertible loan notes, leaving the Group in a net cash position.
With the slimming down of cost base in our SME Mass Market segment, the continued growth in our Managed Hosting 
business along with our cash generation we are well placed going into the 2016/2017 financial year with a strong 
foundation for future growth.
We therefore look forward to the year ahead with confidence.
Chris Evans
Chief Executive Officer
31 May 2016
