 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 9
Strategic report
Market background: another year of deflation
In the past year we have once again seen significant price 
deflation in the cheese, whey and butter categories. Another 
year of strong UK and global milk production has resulted in 
downward price pressure across all dairy products. This showed 
no signs of slowing in the second half of the year. Regrettably, 
in this environment, we have had to reduce the price paid to our 
farmers for their milk; a reduction of about 17% over the course of 
the year. We continue to pay farmers a fair, competitive price for 
milk and have recently introduced a new, innovative milk contract 
for our farmers. This will promote more stable and transparent 
pricing for core milk volumes that support our cheese business’ 
requirements. 
Inevitably, the market environment has put downward pressure 
on selling prices. Our cheese margins have been pressured 
because the benefit of lower input costs take up to 12 months 
to be reflected in the income statement. This is the average 
maturation time for our cheese. This effect is compounded by 
lower realisations from whey sales. We therefore are particularly 
pleased to have delivered margins slightly ahead of last year given 
this background. 
The major food retailers, our principal customers, have 
had to deal with both food deflation and continued intense 
competition. We expect these tough conditions to continue. In 
this environment it is crucial that we continue to work with our 
customers innovatively to help grow the categories in which we 
operate in ways that are mutually beneficial. Our ‘Dairy for Life’ 
initiative continues to play an important role in helping to grow 
dairy categories in partnership with our retailer customers. It is a 
framework to grow the categories in which we operate and guides 
plans for future innovation, marketing and category merchandising.
Key brands perform robustly in deflationary environment
In line with our expectations, overall revenue from our four key 
brands was down by 2.3% over the financial year. This was a 
good performance in a deflationary marketplace. Key brand sales 
volumes increased by 1.7% with all four brands growing volumes 
year-on-year in the second half despite very challenging conditions 
in the butters and spreads market.  
CHieF exe CUTiVe’S re VieW
Summary: well-positioned for growth
2015/16 has been a significant year for Dairy Crest. We 
successfully sold our Dairies business and completed a 
programme of significant investment in functional ingredients 
manufacture at our Davidstow facility in Cornwall. These initiatives 
have transformed the Group. Dairy Crest is now a simpler 
business, focussed on growth and innovation in branded and 
value-added products. It is well-positioned to generate cash and 
deliver attractive margins that should improve in the future.
Dairy Crest’s continuing business posted a solid financial 
performance in 2015/16 despite continued deflation in dairy 
markets. Against this background, I am particularly pleased 
by the improved profitability in the second half of the year. Our 
key brands have performed well and have good prospects. We 
will continue to focus on growing brands and establishing our 
functional ingredients business. This gives us access to new, 
higher-growth markets and a range of new customers. This 
will ensure that the company is well-positioned for the future 
despite current market conditions which are expected to remain 
challenging in the short-term.  
Brand Market Dairy Crest 
volume growth*
Dairy Crest 
sales growth*
 
Cheese
6.4% 0.8%
 
Butters, spreads, margarine
(6.4)% (14.9)%
  Butters, spreads, margarine
3.9% (6.2)%
 
Oils
29.1% 27.9%
Total   1.7% (2.3)%
* Dairy Crest volume and value sales 12 months to 31 March 2016 vs 12 months to 31 March 2015 10 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016
Cathedral City outperforms again
IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 compared to 
the same period last year show that the total cheese market 
(excluding discounters) grew by 6.1% in volume but fell by 0.4% 
in value. Within this, the everyday cheese market fell by 3.6% 
in value. Cathedral City outperformed the market with volumes 
increasing by 6.4% and revenue increasing by 0.8%. It now 
accounts for 55% of branded everyday cheese sales in the UK.
Cathedral City market penetration over a 12 month period is 
now 58%. Almost three fifths of households bought Cathedral 
City in the last year and this is a measure of how the brand has 
grown over recent years. We are determined to continue building 
on this success. In April 2016 we began to roll out updated and 
refreshed branded packaging across the Cathedral City portfolio. 
This brand evolution simplifies and standardises the master brand; 
it will also improve Cathedral City’s prominence on the shelf. The 
brand refresh will be supported by a new advertising campaign 
and promotional activity.
Butters and spreads performance improves over the year
IRI data for the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016 show that butters 
volumes grew by 6.4% but spreads volumes declined by 8.6%, 
leaving combined volumes down 2.2%. Selling prices fell in both 
markets resulting in retail sales down 2.1% for butters, 13.1% for 
spreads and 6.5% combined. 
Retail sales of Clover moved broadly in line with the market 
over the 52 weeks ended 26 March 2016. The performance 
improved in the second half following the re-launch of Clover in 
September 2015. This launch was the culmination of a two-year 
project that removed all artificial ingredients from Clover and was 
supported by marketing and promotional activity in the autumn. 
Since the re-launch, over 500,000 more customers have 
bought Clover. In the second half of the year Clover volumes 
increased by 1.2% compared to the same period last year despite 
market volume declines overall. IRI data for the last quarter of 
the year shows Clover has gained 1.7% share volume versus the 
previous year.
Country Life delivered volume growth of 3.9% in the year with 
a step change in performance in the second half. This was helped 
by new British themed packaging which, we know from consumer 
research, plays to the brand’s strengths. Volumes and revenue 
grew by 20% and 3% respectively in the last six months of the 
year compared to the second half of 2014/15. This gives us strong 
momentum as we move into the new financial year. 
CHIEF ExECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Goin G for Dairy Crest Annual Report 2016 11
Strategic report
Frylight delivers strong growth
Frylight, our one calorie cooking spray, has once again delivered 
strong growth; volumes were up 29.1% year on year and revenue 
was up 27.9%. Based on Kantar data for the 52 weeks to 27 
March 2016, the retail oils market is worth £330 million at retail 
and has grown in both volume and value by 4% over the last 12 
months. Frylight is now the number one brand in this market with 
household penetration of over 20%.
The brand has benefitted both from increased listings and 
product innovation. 2015/16 saw the introduction of both coconut 
oil and rapeseed oil variants. This continued pace of innovation will 
be crucial to growing the brand in the future. 
infant formula ingredients on track
We have successfully completed our investment programme 
at Davidstow to manufacture ingredients for the infant 
formula market. This unique UK facility is now producing both 
demineralised whey and GOS. Following successful food and 
infant formula quality audits, these products are being sold to our 
partner, Fonterra. Final commissioning took somewhat longer than 
expected although we started production in March 2016. We will 
get a full year benefit from the investment in the financial year to 
31 March 2017.
This is an important step for our business as it delivers a 
premium on all of our whey by-product. It also allows us to 
grow a profitable GOS infant formula business while researching 
further GOS applications and uses. It gives Dairy Crest access 
to important business-to-business ingredients customers and 
an ability to develop in emerging markets. In December 2015 we 
acquired the outstanding 50% of Promovita Ingredients Limited 
(‘Promovita’) our GOS joint venture. This has allowed us to control 
the direction and pace of our GOS development.
Whey, along with other dairy products, has experienced steep 
falls in price during the last 12 months. However, demineralised 
whey continues to deliver a price premium compared to the sweet 
whey that we produced previously. This uplift will deliver a project 
payback in line with our expectations despite short-term weakness 
in the market. 
innovation at the heart of what we do
The continuing business is much more focussed following the sale 
of the Dairies business and pace of innovation is, and needs to 
be, an important point of difference. Future growth is underpinned 
by innovation. 
In December 2015, our research and development and 
technical teams moved into our new Dairy Crest Innovation Centre 
on the Harper Adams University campus. This state-of-the-art 
facility will help drive our ambitious target of 10% of sales each 
year coming from innovation in the previous three years. This year, 
helped by the re-launch of Clover we achieved 11% of sales from 
recent innovation across our four key brands. 
The Innovation Centre consolidates all of our technical and 
research expertise and equipment in one place and allows us 
to benefit from cross-fertilisation of people and ideas with the 
university which is a leading centre of food and agricultural 
research.
Innovation continues to drive our business forward in other 
ways. In the year ended 31 March 2016, we:
•	 successfully re-launched Clover with no artificial ingredients;
•	 brought two new Frylight products to market – coconut and 
rapeseed spray oils;
•	 introduced a new milk purchasing contract for our Davidstow 
supplying farmers that aligns our growth ambitions with theirs; and
•	 agreed in principle a partnership with Fowler Welch Coolchain Ltd, 
a logistics specialist, to maximise the throughput at our Nuneaton 
distribution and warehousing site. 
We continue to carry out research with universities and 
commercial trials with partners into the effect of GOS on animal 
development. The laboratory data seen to date is encouraging 
and work will continue in this area during 2016. To this end we 
have allocated an increase of over £2 million in the GOS research 
budget for 2016/17. We intend to validate laboratory findings with 
field trials and find additional commercial applications for GOS.
A simpler business
Dairy Crest is a simpler, leaner and more responsive business 
following the Dairies sale. We now have five well-invested 
manufacturing sites and fewer than 1,200 employees. There 
are opportunities to further simplify procedures and support 
structures within the business. Over time this will allow us to 
reduce overheads and increase efficiency. We are currently 
embarking on a change to our core IT systems which will roll out 
over the next three years. This will deliver a more appropriate 
and cost effective IT infrastructure for a business of our scale. It 
will also be the catalyst for us to simplify the processes that sit 
alongside these IT systems. 
We continue to drive operational efficiency improvements and 
following the successful consolidation of butters and spreads 
production into one site at Kirkby in early 2015, we will continue to 
focus on improving line performance efficiency. We have already 
seen improvements in efficiency measures over the year to 31 
March 2016. 
Future prospects
This is an exciting time to be leading Dairy Crest. Although we 
expect food price deflation to persist in the short-term, the business 
is well-positioned to deliver profitable and sustainable growth. 
We are making progress with all of our four key brands and the 
continued investment we are putting behind them this year gives 
me confidence that we can continue to grow their market share.
The other focus for 2016/17 will be on accelerating sales from 
demineralised whey and GOS, the new infant formula ingredients 
and continuing to explore further applications for GOS.
Future free cash generation will improve as the sale of our 
Dairies business and completion of the investment at Davidstow 
removes a significant drain on cash.
Mark Allen Chief Executive
18 May 2016
We are now focussed on growth 
and innovation in branded and value-
added products. The business has 
been simplified and is well-positioned 
to generate cash. It will also deliver 
improved margins in the future.
