 10 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009    BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
FOCUSED
1
A detailed reconciliation is provided on page 13.
STEPHEN HARRIS
Chief Executive
TRADING OVERVIEW
2009 was undoubtedly one of the fiercest economic storms that
Bodycote, and indeed most other companies, has endured. In the
face of rapidly declining demand on almost every front, volumes fell
at the worst point to nearly 37% below prior year levels. The storm
started to abate in the fourth quarter of the year and the final picture
for the whole of 2009 was a year-on-year revenue decline of
£116.4m, or 29.6% in constant currencies, to £435.4m.
Aided by significant and rapid restructuring actions, the fall in
headline operating profit
1
was contained to £63.2m, so that the year
end figure finished at £8.0m (2008: £71.2m), notwithstanding the
loss that was incurred in the first half. This represents an operational
gearing of 40%, at constant currencies, well below that exhibited by
Bodycote in previous downturns. The restructuring actions led to an
exceptional charge of £25.4m, of which £12.8m was cash and £12.6m
was asset write-downs. In addition, the impairment of goodwill and
investments amounted to £31.5m.
The restructuring programme has involved the closure of 25 facilities
in total, the permanent decommissioning of some inefficient process
lines and mothballing of others at a number of the remaining plants,
together with the matching of headcount to demand throughout the
organisation. The benefit has been a cost reduction of £30.4m in
2009 - equivalent to £43.0m on an annualised basis. In addition to these
restructuring actions, all costs were critically examined and reduced
where possible, leading to further substantial savings. The number
of employees has been reduced by 29% since the peak in July 2008,
to a total of 5,512. 
The savings achieved from closing or consolidating plants and
decommissioning lines are permanent. Other savings are largely volume
related and can be expected to reverse to some degree as volumes rise. 
Capital expenditure at £32.2m was well controlled and yielded a
capital expenditure to depreciation ratio of 0.6, net of £4.3m of asset
sales. This was 57% lower than in 2008. Headline operating cash
flow
1
was £34.7m, well above headline operating profit. Year end
net debt was £85.5m (2008: £64.7m). The increase in net debt was
effectively due to £22.4m of tax paid in the year relating to the disposal
of the Testing division that occurred in 2008.
A new £110m debt facility, extending until 2013, was put in place
in January 2010, replacing the expiring 2010 facility. A second facility for
$20m, which was also due to expire in 2010 was renewed in February
2010 and also extends to 2013. The covenant terms are unchanged,
and the facilities provide headroom for expansion opportunities.
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:06  Page 10 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 11
RESHAPING BODYCOTE
As the restructuring activities have progressed, great care has been
taken to ensure that operational excellence and customer service
have been maintained and that the business is ready for the upturn.
In addition, a detailed strategic review has been carried out that has
enabled us to refine our future strategy and reshape the business
along specific strategic lines. The Group has now been organised as
two business areas, each facing a different customer set with different
characteristics and different requirements. 
The Aerospace, Defence & Energy (ADE) business consists of 63
facilities and is organised on a global basis. It includes the Group’s
aerospace, defence and energy certified heat treatment activities,
hot isostatic pressing and surface technology services. The latter two
of these technologies are predominantly used in the aerospace, defence
and energy markets and the total available market is overwhelmingly
in these end-user sectors.
The Automotive & General Industrial (AGI) business consists of
115 facilities organised into four geographically based sub-divisions.
The geographic organisation reflects the predominance of local
work that is carried out for customers in the automotive and general
industrial sectors.
It is worth noting that all of Bodycote’s facilities in the emerging
markets (Eastern Europe, Brazil and Asia), with the exception of the
facilities in Singapore and Dubai, are part of the Automotive & General
Industrial business. While this does not impede our ability to expand
in the ADE sectors when it is required in these geographies, it does
reflect the growth of core manufacturing activities in the emerging
markets that the AGI customers are driving. So far, our customers
from the developed markets in the ADE sectors have moved (or are
in the process of moving) primarily activities such as assembly to
these markets. Little or none of this ADE assembly activity requires
the thermal processing services that Bodycote offers.
One of the refinements to the strategy is to be more selective about
which emerging markets we pursue, and to drive harder in those
we target. As a consequence of this approach, we have consolidated
our facilities in India into one (from three) and have exited Thailand.
The small associate venture in Thailand was sold back to the original
owners in late 2009. 
In total, the new divisional structure allows the Company to
discriminate much more readily between different types of customer
needs and to focus activity and investment in a more deliberate way.
In keeping with the new organisational structure, the executive
committee has been expanded from five to nine members with
the addition of two new global Divisional Presidents, a Director
of Human Resources and a Director of Business Development.
THE FUTURE
Irrespective of the pace of the recovery, in the short term the tighter
business disciplines and more focused capital investment procedures
which were put in place in 2009 will enhance shareholder value in
2010 and beyond. The business process improvement and customer
service enhancement programmes initiated during the year are another
part of the drive for value creation.
Bodycote’s recovery will be driven not only by general global demand
but also by our own ability to gain market share. In addition, in the
longer term, Bodycote stands to benefit from two trends.
The first is a likely acceleration in the trend for customers to outsource.
In 2009 many have seen the problems associated with having high
fixed cost thermal processing operations in-house that are entirely
dependent on their own product throughput. Outsourcing this type of
activity, which is often not core to our customers’ business, is becoming
a hotter topic as a result of the recession.
The second significant factor that will help to drive Bodycote’s business
in the coming years is the growing awareness of environmental
sustainability and the need for carbon reduction. One of Bodycote’s
core competences as specialists in thermal processing is the efficient
use of energy. The ability to aggregate work from multiple customers
and process the work in a more energy efficient way helps reduce
costs for customers and also lowers their aggregate carbon footprint.
Clearly, the key to Bodycote’s future success is its employees. The
difficulties of 2009 have been demanding, and the Group’s employees
have risen to the challenge that the world economy threw at us and
moved the business a long way forward, even in the face of adversity.
SUMMARY & OUTLOOK
2009 was a year of transition for Bodycote, with a major cost reduction
programme implemented, a new strategy defined and the Group
reshaped accordingly. End markets were very challenging with sharply
lower volumes, the impact of which was addressed by significant cost
reductions. We delivered a headline operating profit for the full year,
more than offsetting the losses incurred in the first half. Many of our
automotive and general industrial markets have already started to recover
but we do not expect the aerospace, defence and energy markets to
strengthen until later in 2010. The pace of recovery remains uncertain
and potentially uneven. We anticipate that full recovery in demand may
take several years. This notwithstanding, we enter 2010 with a reshaped
business and renewed vigour.
S. C. Harris
Chief Executive
25 February 2010
...the tighter business disciplines and more focused
capital investment procedures which were put in place in
2009 will enhance shareholder value in 2010 and beyond
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:06  Page 11
