 8 BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009    BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OVERVIEW 
In 2008, the Board indicated that the Group was already experiencing
the effects of what might become a deep economic downturn.
Looking at the situation one year on, the recession has proved
to be every bit as bad as anticipated and while the worst seems
to be over, there is little sign yet of any meaningful improvement
in trading conditions.
Following the disposal of the Testing division in the final quarter
of 2008, the Board announced the appointment of Stephen Harris
as the new Chief Executive with effect from the start of 2009.
In his first year he has led a major transformation exercise
concentrating to date on three specific areas:
Following an in-depth strategic review, the Group’s operations
and organisation are now focused on its core technologies and
key markets. 
A major restructuring programme has taken place, addressing
the sharp reduction in demand and reducing the fixed and variable
cost base. The results of this are now contributing to the
improved operational results.
Linked to the strategic review, a full evaluation of management
strength in all disciplines has been carried out. This has resulted
in a number of new appointments already, as part of delayering
the organisation, and several positions will be filled in the first
half of 2010.
In the absence of any significant trading upturn, it is still too early
to see the full impact of these initiatives. Nevertheless, the Board
expects that with a revitalised management team focused on key
markets and core technologies, together with a reduction in the
proportion of low value-added activities, the Group should soon
be reporting improved results. The full benefit will only be realised
when sustainable growth returns to our major areas of activity.
PREPARED
ALAN THOMSON
Chairman
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:06  Page 8 BUSINESS REVIEW : CORPORATE GOVERNANCE : ACCOUNTS BODYCOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 9
GROUP RESULTS
The difficulties encountered by most of the businesses are clearly
reflected in the 2009 results. Revenue from operations declined
by 21.1% to £435.4m. At constant rates of exchange, the sales
reduction exceeded 29%. To compensate for the loss of business,
employee numbers have been reduced by a similar proportion and
25 of the original 203 operating sites have been closed. The profit
recovery in the second half of 2009 has started to reflect these
adjustments to the cost base, although the full effect of the changes
will not be evident until the second half of 2010.
It was pleasing to note that the focus on cash management resulted
in a satisfactory year end position. The cash cost of re-organising the
Group’s activities was largely funded by a sharp reduction in working
capital such that the £20.8m increase in net debt during 2009 was
entirely accounted for by the tax paid following the successful disposal
of the Testing division in 2008. It is also reassuring to report that the
Group’s major borrowing facility has, in January 2010, been renewed
with existing banks through until March 2013. This will ensure that
Bodycote can complete its restructuring programme while providing
the fixed and working capital resources which will enable the Group
to fully benefit from the anticipated recovery in major markets over
the next three years. 
SUSTAINABILITY
Despite the enormous efforts made during the year to reposition
the Group’s operations, management recognise that sustainability
must be a key element of the business strategy to deliver future
growth. A responsible approach to the environment is important
to ensure that Bodycote has a sustainable long-term future. Already
over 75% of the facilities have met the ISO 14001 standard which
helps minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects and the aim
is to achieve 100% accreditation in all plants during the coming years. 
Health and Safety statistics are closely monitored and are the subject
of review at each Board and executive meeting. As a business,
Bodycote is committed to providing its employees with a safe working
environment while supporting and enhancing their health and wellbeing.
BOARD
The Non-executive Directors play a vital role in the governance
of the Company and a key measure of Bodycote’s success is their
ability to provide wise counsel to the members of the executive
team. The Board pays great attention to its corporate governance
responsibilities and each year undertakes a review of its own
performance. It is pleasing to report that after a number of changes
in 2007 and 2008 the new Board is performing well, with each member
contributing positively. 
DIVIDEND
The Board considered carefully the level of dividend to be paid
out to shareholders following the 2009 results. Having maintained
the half year payout at the 2008 level, Board members felt that
recent improving trading conditions, linked to the renewal of the
major banking facility, enabled a final dividend of 5.35p per share
to be recommended, giving a total of 8.3p for the year, unchanged
from 2008. Although the disappointing result in 2009 means that
the dividend will not be covered by earnings, the Board is confident
that the actions taken to improve the operating performance,
underpinned by a strong year end balance sheet, should enable
the Group to fully cover the payout in 2010. The final dividend will
be paid to shareholders in May following approval at the Annual
General Meeting. 
SUMMARY
Over the last two years the Non-executive Directors have visited
a large number of Group facilities and met with employees
at all levels. They have been impressed by the dedication and
professionalism of the Group’s staff and would like to thank them
for their contribution in what has been an extremely turbulent
and challenging period. The Board believes that Stephen and his
colleagues have taken the right decisions to ensure that Bodycote
emerges from this unprecedented recession in a position to deliver
enhanced value to shareholders.
A. M. Thomson
Chairman
25 February 2010
...the Board believes that Stephen and his colleagues
have taken the right decisions to ensure that Bodycote
emerges from this unprecedented recession in a position
to deliver enhanced value to shareholders
ID4874_Bc_AR2009_14.qxp  5/3/10  16:06  Page 9
