 	 12	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
CHieF	exeCutive’s	 review
traDing	overview
2010	 was	 a	 year	 of	 recovery	 for	bodycote	 after	 the	 difficulties	
of	 the	 downturn	 in	 2009.	sales	 grew	 by	 14.8%	 to	 £499.8m	 with	
like	 for	 like	 sales	 (at	 constant	 currencies	 and	 rebased	 to	 take	 account	
of	 the	 sites	 closed	 in	 2009)	 up	 17.8%.	 Much	 of	 the	 sales	 growth	
was	 driven	 by	 the	 end	 of	oeM	 supply	 chain	 destocking	 and	
increased	 end	 market	 demand	 with	 strong	 growth	 from	 the	 general	
industrial,	 oil	 and	 gas	 and,	 in	 particular,	 the	 automotive	 and	 heavy	
truck	 segments.	these	 developments	 more	 than	 offset	 the	 decline	
in	 demand	 in	 power	 generation.	demand	 improvements	 in	 aerospace	
and	 defence	 also	 contributed	 to	 the	 sales	 growth	 but	 only	 marginally.	
it	 is	 noteworthy,	 however,	 that	 all	 of	 the	 Group’s	 markets	 are	 still	
materially	 below	 2008	 levels.	in	 addition	 to	 increases	 in	 end	 market	
demand,	 sales	 improved	 as	 a	 result	 of	 notable	 gains	 in	 market	
share.	the	 most	 marked	 of	 these	 share	 gains	 was	 in	 the	 automotive	
segment	 where	 the	 latest	 technologies	 offered	 by	bodycote	 are	
supplanting	 more	 traditional	 forms	 of	 heat	 treatment.
the	drive	 for	 efficiency	 in	 the	 Group	 yielded	 excellent	 results.	
total	headcount	 at	 the	 end	 of	 2010	 of	 5,487	 was	 marginally	 below	
that	 of	 a	 year	 earlier	 and	 28%	 below	 the	 peak	 headcount	 of	june	 2008.	
the	year	 end	 headcount	 was	 311	 lower	 than	 the	 number	 at	 half	 year	
as	 the	 tail	 end	 restructuring	 programmes	 in	 France	 and	brazil	 came	
into	 effect.	the	 tight	 discipline	 on	 the	 build	 back	 of	 expenses	 against	
a	 backdrop	 of	 rising	 sales	 drove	 margins	 up	 to	 10.4%	 (1.8%	 in	 2009).	
increased	 selling	 prices	 contributed	 100	 basis	 points	 to	 the	 margins,	
offset	 by	 70	 basis	 points	 of	 increased	 input	 costs.
n et	 capital	 expenditure	 at	 £35.8m	 amounted	 to	 0.8	 times	 depreciation	
(0.6	 in	 2009).	approximately	 half	 of	 the	 expenditure	 in	 2010	 (0.4	 times	
depreciation)	 was	 spent	 on	 developing	 capacity	 in	 emerging	 markets,	
increasing	 capacity	 for	 specific	 high	 added	 value	 processes	 in	north	
a merica	 and	 investing	 in	 the	 Group’s	 chosen	 proprietary	 technologies.	
the	remainder	 of	 the	 capital	 expenditure	 was	 spent	 on	 maintenance.	
the	Group	 is	 relatively	 well	 equipped	 with	 long	 life	 assets	 and	 has	
a	 low	 requirement	 for	 maintenance	 capital	 in	 the	 short	 and	 medium	
term.	the	 level	 of	 capital	 expenditure,	 combined	 with	 strong	 control	
of	 working	 capital,	 led	 to	 headline	 operating	 cash	 flow	 of	 £77.3m,	
representing	 a	 cash	 conversion	 ratio	 of	 148%.	as	 a	 result,	 net	 debt	
at	 the	 year	 end	 was	 reduced	 to	 £51.3m.
strategiC	 Developments
a s	 well	 as	 the	 drive	 for	 increased	 sales	 and	 higher	 levels	 of	 operating	
efficiency,	 2010	 was	 a	 year	 of	 implementation	 of	 the	 strategic	 agenda	
outlined	 in	 February	 of	 that	 year.
at	the	 end	 of	 2009	 the	 Group	 was	 reorganised	 into	 two	 business	
areas.	the	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 energy	 business	 (ade )	 is	 organised	
on	 a	 global	 basis,	 and	 comprises	 the	 Hot	isostatic	pressing	 (Hip)	and	
heat	 treatment	 divisions.	the	 Group’s	 surface	 technology	 business	 is	
part	 of	 the	ade	 heat	 treatment	 division.	in	 contrast,	 the	 automotive	
and	 general	 industrial	 business	 (aGi)	is	 organised	 geographically,	
covering	western	europe,	north	america	 and	 the	 emerging	 markets.	
Customer	 reaction	 to	 the	 reorganisation	 has	 been	 very	 positive,	 with	
industry	 specialist	 sales	 teams	 able	 to	 engage	 with	 their	 customers	
in	 a	 far	 more	 productive	 way	 than	 was	 possible	 in	 the	 past.	i n	 addition,	
the	 specialisation	 of	 the	 plants	 in	 each	 business	 area	 has	 helped	
simplify	 the	 operations	 and	 improve	 efficiency.
stephen	harris
Chief	executive
the	reorganisation	 of	
the	 Group	 into	 market	
focused	 divisions	 has	
enhanced	 revenue	 growth	
and	 careful	 targeting	 of	
capital	 investment	 has	
improved	 cash	 flow	 and	
return	 on	 capital. 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 13
d evelopment	 of	 the	 emerging	 markets	 and	 investment	 in	b odycote’s	
chosen	 proprietary	 technologies	 are	 key	 elements	 of	 the	 strategy.	
the	emerging	 markets	 focus	 for	bodycote	 is	 on	eastern	europe,	
brazil	and	 China.	while	 emerging	 markets	 revenues	 represent	 just	
over	 10%	 of	 the	 Group’s	 business	 today,	bodycote	 is	 already	 the	
market	 leader	 in	eastern	europe	 and	brazil	 and	 number	 two	 in	 China.	
in	 2010	 new	 greenfield	 sites	 were	 added	 in	poland,	 Czech	republic	
and	brazil,	 while	 additional	 modern	 capacity	 was	 deployed	 in	 existing	
plants	 in	turkey,	brazil	 and	 China.
the	development	 of	 the	 Group’s	 proprietary	 technologies	 continued	
apace	 in	 2010:
	 		 the	speciality	stainless	steel	 business	 unit	 (s3p)	capacity	 was	
expanded	 by	 20%,	 with	 a	 further	 25%	 put	 on	 order	 in	 readiness	
for	 the	 increased	 demand	 now	 expected	 for	 this	 business.
	 		 the	 Hot	isostatic	pressing	product	 Fabrication	 business	 unit
(Hip	pF)	 grew	 at	 70%,	 albeit	 from	 a	 relatively	 modest	 base.	
the	business	 operates	 from	 centres	 of	 excellence	 in	 Germany,	
sweden	and	 the	usa	with	 much	 of	 the	 process	 development	
and	 computer	 modelling	 carried	 out	 in	 the	uK	 and	 the	usa.
	 		 the	 Corrosion	prevention	processes	 business	 unit	 (Cpp)	
commissioned	 its	 first	 commercial	 production	 unit	 for	 the	
sheraCote
®
	 family	 of	 processes.
progress	 was	 also	 made	 on	 developing	 the	 Group’s	 personnel	 both	
internally	 and	 through	 the	 appointment	 of	 new	 talent	 in	 many	 areas.	
in	 addition,	 the	 Group’s	 executive	 committee	 was	 also	 strengthened	
with	 new	 talent	 recruited	 during	 the	 year.	the	 committee	 comprises	
five	 divisional	presidents,	 the	 Human	resources	director	 and	 the	
Group	 Finance	director,	 together	 with	 the	 Chief	executive	officer,	
who	 chairs	 the	 committee.
future	trenDs	
the	future	 trends	 for	bodycote’s	 markets	 are	 very	 favourable.	
the	more	 notable	 trends	 include:
	 		 in	 the	 aerospace	 segment	 most	 industry	 analysts	 foresee	 a	
significant	 growth	 in	 flying	 hours	 and	 new	 build	 of	 aeroplanes	
associated	 with	 traffic	 for	 the	 emerging	 markets.	the	 move	 to	
higher	 engine	 operating	 temperature	 requirements	 increases	
thermal	 processing	 needs.	these	 are	 all	 positive	 factors	 for	
the	 demand	 for	 thermal	 processing.
	 		 r ising	 oil	 and	 gas	 prices,	 together	 with	 the	 increasing	
sophistication	 associated	 with	 extracting	 difficult	 to	 reach	
reserves,	 are	 increasing	 the	 material	 requirements	 of	 exploration	
and	 production	 equipment,	 which	 in	 turn	 is	 driving	 greater	
demand	 for	 thermal	 processing	 services.
	 		 power	 generation,	 where	bodycote	 enjoys	 a	 strong	 presence
in	 both	 heat	 treatment	 and	 Hip	services,	 will	 resume	 its	 long	
term	 growth	 path	 in	 due	 course,	 as	 the	 expansion	 in	 the	
emerging	 markets	 continues.
	 		 t he	 automotive	 segment	 is	 moving	 to	 more	 sophisticated	 materials	
engineering	 as	 manufacturers	 try	 to	 reduce	 weight	 and	 increase	
strength.	this	 in	 turn	 directly	 increases	 the	 amount	 of	 thermal	
processing	 required.	i n	 addition,	 the	 introduction	 of	 hybrid	 vehicles	
is	 leading	 to	 a	 larger	 number	 of	 components	 in	 vehicles,	 which	
in	 turn	 require	 more	 services	 offered	 by	bodycote.
outsourcing	remains	 a	 major	 opportunity	 for	 the	 Group.	agreements	
are	 typically	 framework	 in	 nature,	 with	 standard	 terms	 and	 conditions	
and	 a	 commitment	 to	 sole	 source	 the	 work	 from	bodycote.	pricing	 is	
normally	 defined	 as	 a	 base	 level	 with	 prices	 linked	 to	 various	 indices	
such	 as	 the	 cost	 of	 energy.
Going	 forward	 it	 is	 expected	 that	 the	 pace	 of	 outsourcing	 and	 size	 of	
outsource	 contracts	 will	 increase.	this	 is	 due	 not	 only	 to	 the	 general	
tendency	 of	 companies	 to	 eliminate	 non	 core	 activities	 over	 time,	 but	
also	 to	 two	 other	 significant	 factors.
	 		 the	 rising	 cost	 of	 energy.	bodycote	 is	 typically	 more	 energy	
efficient	 than	 manufacturers	 that	 process	 the	 work	 in-house	
and	 can	 balance	 the	 load	 in	 its	 process	 lines	 by	 aggregating	
work	 from	 several	 customers.	level	 loading,	 in	 itself,	 is	 a	 much	
more	 efficient	 way	 of	 operating	 thermal	 processing	 plants	 than	
the	 fluctuating	 load	 conditions	 faced	 by	 most	 manufacturers’	
in-house	 facilities.	as	 a	 result,	 rising	 energy	 prices	 tend	 to	 drive	
increased	 levels	 of	 outsourcing.
	 		 the	 general	 move	 of	 manufacturing	 industries	 to	 emerging	
markets.	this	 not	 only	 creates	 opportunities	 in	 emerging	
markets	 for	bodycote	 to	 serve	 these	 customers,	 but	 also	
provides	 a	 source	 of	 opportunity	 in	 developed	 economies.	
this	is	 because	 most	 customers	 that	 move	 their	 manufacturing	
to	 emerging	 markets	 tend	 not	 to	 close	 their	 facilities	 completely	
in	 the	 developed	 economies.	instead,	 these	 facilities	 stop	 being	
expanded	 and	 have	 investment	 constrained.	the	 capital	 intensive	
nature	 of	 thermal	 processing	 means	 that	 such	 facilities	 often	
become	 undercapitalised	 or	 outmoded	 and	 outsourcing	 becomes	
an	 attractive	 option.	the	 choice	 of	 companies	 capable	 of	 taking	
on	 such	 outsourced	 work	 in	 a	 reliable	 way	 is	 small,	 and	bodycote	
becomes	 the	 preferred	 partner	 for	 most	 of	 the	 customer	 base.
summary	 &	outlook
2010	 saw	 a	 notable	 and	 pleasing	 improvement	 in	 the	 performance	
of	 the	 Group.	better	 macro	 economic	 conditions	 were	 an	 important	
contributor	 to	 this	 and	 the	 underlying	 ability	 of	 the	 business	 to	 deliver	
consistently	 superior	 value	 has	 been	 strengthened	 considerably.	
total	revenue	 growth	 was	 well	 ahead	 of	 market	 improvement.	
the	reorganisation	 of	 the	 Group	 into	 market	 focused	 divisions	 has	
enhanced	 revenue	 growth	 and	 careful	 targeting	 of	 capital	 investment	
has	 improved	 cash	 flow	 and	 return	 on	 capital.
looking	at	 2011,	 it	 is	 anticipated	 that	 automotive	 and	 general	
industrial	 business	 will	 continue	 to	 grow	 at	 a	 reasonable	 pace.	
aerospace,	defence	 and	 energy	 demand	 has	 begun	 to	 recover,	
although	 within	 this	 the	 power	 generation	 segment	 remains	 soft,	
with	 the	 timing	 of	 improvement	 still	 unclear.	in	 summary,	 the	board	
is	 confident	 that	 2011	 will	 be	 another	 year	 of	 growth	 for	bodycote,	
albeit	 at	 a	 less	 rapid	 rate	 than	 experienced	 in	 2010.	the	 year	 has	
started	 in	 line	 with	 these	 expectations.	looking	 further	 out,	 the	b oard	
sees	 encouraging	 opportunities	 for	 improved	 through-cycle	 returns.
s.	 C.	harris
Chief	executive	
24	 February	 2011
