 Overview 
CHAIRMAN'S REVIEW 
We have delivered a solid performance during the year 
as the benefits of our three-year 'Nouvelle Confiance' 
strategic plan reached a successful conclusion. 
We launched our Nouvelle Confiance 
strategic plan in December 2012 and 
every year we made continued progress 
in its implementation. During the first two 
years we completed the elimination of the 
losses in our non-core markets to enable 
us to fully focus on our core businesses in 
France, Belgium and the Netherlands. 
We also introduced major initiatives in 
France to secure our future growth. 
The development and roll-out of a 
franchise model has led to a current 
total of 74 outlets. This year we have 
increased our web-generated sales 
by over 12 per cent to account for 
nearly 16 per cent of total product 
sales, and we expanded the kitchen 
offer into an additional11 stores and 
now have a total of over 82 stores. 
In December 2015 we launched our new 
plan for the business, 'Confiance 4.0', 
which builds on our market leadership 
positions, strong brands, improves our 
customer service offer and expands into 
new catchments through our franchise 
programme. Full details of this plan and of 
other activities completed over the year 
can be found on pages 5 to 16. 
Regarding the offer for the Group 
by Fnac, the combination of the two 
companies provides an opportunity to 
take this strong platform to the next 
level, creating a leading European 
retailer, delivering attractive synergies 
for investors, benefits for our customers 
and development opportunities 
for our people. Under the terms of 
this offer we are not intending to 
recommend a final dividend this year. 
Finally, I would like to extend my 
sincere thanks to the Board, senior 
management team and all my colleagues 
across the Group for their support and 
hard work in delivering our plans over 
the last few years. 
Nouvelle Confiance has delivered successful results ahead of schedule 
Alan Parker CBE 
Chairman 
2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 
1. Refocus on core markets 
2. Creating value from our leadership and efficiency savings 
3. Identify future growth opportunities 
4. Confiance 4.0 
02 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
