 Web sales at Darty up 
12.7°/o 
16.2% of total 
product sales 
CHANNELS 
To accelerate our multi-channel offer via 
improving our website and mobile content 
Sales via Click & Collect up 
66°/o 
at Darty 
10 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
Mistergooddeal.com, our online channel 
to serve the entry price/low service 
part of the market, has been completely 
integrated into Darty's logistics 
infrastructure. Customers now collect 
ordered products from Darty stores 
rather than stand-alone collection points. 
Revenue remained under pressure 
due to this integration and also due to 
the removal of legacy, non-profitable, 
non-electrical product lines. However, 
the integration and elimination of costs 
has led to a breakeven performance for 
the year, ahead of our initial schedule. 
Confiance 4.0 - our new plan 
Following the successful delivery 
of 'Nouvelle Confiance' we 
developed a new plan to secure 
continued, profitable growth. 
Buying trends are evolving: customers 
want a trusted retailer for white goods, 
with around 80 per cent of white goods 
purchased through specialist retailers 
such as Darty; they want immediate 
access to products and services, 
with over half of customers checking 
online for product availability before 
going to a store; they want tailored 
services, with over a third of Darty 
customers already willing to pay a 
premium for a dedicated service; and, 
as the technology develops, they want 
connected home appliances, with 
households expected on average to each 
have 30 connected products by 2020. 
With this in mind, our new three-year 
plan, predominantly focused on France, 
is built around four priorities: 
Cash, to reinforce financial 
strength and our economic model; 
Channels, to accelerate our 
multi-channel offer; 
Care, to personalise our services; and 
Connected, to capture connected 
growth opportunities. 
Following the successful delivery 
of 'Nouvelle Confiance' we 
developed a new plan to secure 
continued, profitable growth. 
Cash- Reinforce our financial strength 
and economic model 
During the year we introduced a 
Group-wide plan to strengthen our 
financial position. This has been 
achieved through a number of 
working capital and cost initiatives. 
Payment terms have been reviewed with 
suppliers and, where possible, better, 
extended payment terms have been 
agreed. The business has also focused 
on more prompt collection of a variety 
of supplier incentive payments as they 
contractually fall due rather than being 
collected as a year-end exercise. 
We are also taking action to optimise 
our cost structure. The transfer of the 
majority cif the London head office 
functions to Paris was completed 
during the year. We have started to 
create a more efficient back office 
organisation, including reviewing 
all indirect procurement and the 
roll-out of electronic billing. 
After-sales service has been a major 
advantage for Darty, ranking well ahead 
of all its competitors (source: TNS 
Sofres) and a key criteria when choosing 
Darty. Significant investment has been 
made over the years to maintain this 
position through remote assistance, 
building an extensive knowledge 
base on product failures and the 
introduction of in-store workshops. 
Our ambition is now to further reinforce 
this leadership by reconfiguring the 
service operations towards a more 
immediate and personalised service. 
We have launched initiatives this year 
to develop service in-store including 
product filtering and light repair and 
diagnostic tools (deployed in 45 stores) 
resulting in a reduced number of products 
sent to central repair workshops. Specific 
efforts have been made to increase 
first time resolution in our call centres 
leading to improved service for our 
customers and reduced costs. New 
self-assistance functionalities have also 
been implemented on our websites. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 11  Customers selecting premium 
delivery slots at Darty· 
106,000 
45 in-store repair 
or diagnostic facilities 
now available at Darty 
12 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
CARE 
To offer an even better customer 
experience we will personalise our services  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
We have also worked with a number of 
multimedia suppliers to increase efficiency 
of our central repair activity. Finally, we 
have improved the performance of our 
'out of warranty' business through the 
creation of an 'all-inclusive' service offer. 
The culmination of all this ongoing focus 
across the Group supports our medium­
term target to reduce average net debt 
by €100 million and achieve a further 
gross cost reduction of €50 million. 
Channels- Accelerate our 
multi-channel offer 
Darty is already ranked in the top 
five multi-channel retailers globally 
and number one in the electricals 
sector (source: World e-Shopper 
2015). We are further improving our 
customers' experience via our website 
and mobile content and in-store 
offer to stimulate traffic, conversion 
and average basket spend. 
During the year we refreshed the mobile 
site to improve the look and feel, content 
and navigation and we also continued 
to digitalise our stores. This includes 
Wi Fi in-store and equipping staff 
with tablets to demonstrate products 
from a wider range than held in-store. 
They also provide a price comparison 
to competitors and, more recently, 
trials have commenced to also take 
purchase payments. During the year, 
a further 59 stores were digitalised 
and over 1,000 staff equipped with 
tablets, bringing the total number to 
nearly 2,200 staff in 123 stores. Further 
digitalisation is being trialled in-store 
with the use of electronic tickets to 
provide price and product information. 
We continue to improve our store 
network, largely by relocating selected 
stores to retail parks. During the year, 
in France two stores were closed, 
one opened, three extended, one was 
refurbished and five were relocated. 
The store network in France was 
expanded further with 28 franchise 
stores opened during the year, bringing 
the total to 67, with a further three 
overseas franchise stores, bringing the 
total to seven. Our target is for a total 
of 120 franchise stores by 2018/19. 
A further 11 stores were enhanced in the 
year with the addition of the kitchen offer, 
bringing the total to 82 stores with a 
target of 120 stores with the kitchen offer 
by 2018/19. A stand-alone kitchen offer 
is also being introduced at Vanden Borre 
in Belgium in the first half of 2016/17 via 
a joint venture franchise operation. 
Care - Personalise our services 
We are developing an even better 
experience for our customers in terms 
of the range and personalisation 
of our offer and services. 
We have evolved our fulfilment options 
with dedicated in-store collection 
points and 'Click & Collect' lockers 
in high traffic stores. We have added 
customised delivery options, starting 
with same and next day delivery and 
installation for large appliances. 
Our long-established 'Contrat de 
Confiance' already offered a two-year 
guarantee included within the price 
for the majority of products. Following 
the introduction of the Hamon law 
in France this now has to be offered 
for all products. Consequently, the 
'Contrat de Confiance' has required 
minimal amendment to reflect the new 
legislation and therefore the business 
has been significantly less impacted 
than our competitors, who typically 
only offered a 12-month guarantee. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 13  Nearly 200 third party 
suppliers with over 
300,000 
products at Carty 
Additional revenue from connected 
products during the year at Carty 
€5 million 
14 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
CONNECTED 
The increase in 'connected' technology provides 
us with the opportunity to extend our product offer  Strategic report 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S REVIEW 
We have started to expand our in-store 
help and repair service via in-store 
counters and workshops to provide 
a more immediate resolution for 
our customers, rather than to send 
products to central repair centres with 
consequential longer turnaround times. 
18 stores now have repair desks (L'Atelier) 
and a further 27 stores have diagnostic 
kiosks. In addition, in October we 
launched in-store private appointments 
with an 'expert' for advice before 
purchasing a product or afterwards 
when picking up from 'Click & Collect'. 
'Le Bouton', Darty's market-leading 
connected service offer, has been chosen 
by more than 300,000 customers 
and during the year we extended the 
service to include video technology. 
Customers can now use their smartphone 
cameras for a live visual link to an 
adviser as well as converse with an 
adviser by phone, enabling Darty staff 
to perform an easier diagnostic. 
During the year we launched a new social 
media initiative. In conjunction with 
service provider Wibilong, customers 
can now join online social groups 
dedicated to a particular product. 
enabling them to discuss the product 
before or after buying with other users. 
We have improved our price perception 
and are now viewed as having the best 
prices on a service-included basis against 
all our competitors, both stores and pure 
web players. With the improvements 
to our service proposition, according 
to TNS Sofres, we are now seen by 
customers as having the most efficient 
delivery and after-sales service offer 
and we are the number one for price 
with service included, value for money, 
delivery and after-sales services. 
We have started to utilise our 
database of 10 million households to 
help us personalise our customers' 
shopping experience with tailored 
recommendations, automated bundles 
and 'one click' solutions. This year, 
campaigns have been run to activate 
dormant customers, target those 
moving house and to promote a 
number of new product categories. 
We are also looking to increase customer 
loyalty and during the year we upgraded 
the existing credit offer through the 
Darty Visa-connected credit card, 
providing greater value beyond financing 
a product purchase. Transactions using 
the card lead to gift cards which can be 
used against future purchases. Other 
benefits include free subscription to 
'Le Bouton', special offers on products, 
VIP shopping evenings and access to 
flexible financing offers and free credit. 
Connected -Capture connected 
growth opportunities 
The increase in, and customer demand 
for, 'connected' technology provides 
us with the opportunity to extend 
our product and service offer. 
We have introduced new categories 
and in-store displays for home 
('Maison Connectee') and wearable 
('Sante Connectee') connected 
devices. This includes such products 
as energy control systems, lighting, 
security, health tracking devices and 
watches. The initial connected product 
range generated around €6 million 
additional revenue during the year. 
We have broadened our product 
marketplace offer into new product 
categories and extended ranges in 
existing categories via nearly 200 third 
party suppliers with over 300,000 
offers. During the year we also became 
a supplier of electrical products on 
the website of La Redoute, a leading 
French mail order company. 
The market in France for the connected 
home and services market is estimated 
to be c.€50 billion by 2018, five times the 
size of the current white goods market 
(source: Euromonitor, Machina, ADEM and 
Comte du Logement). We have started 
to capture this opportunity by launching 
a marketplace for home services. In 
partnership with Hellocasa, 'Darty 
Petits Travaux' is offering customers 
the ability to book online services such 
as plumbing, electrics, gardening and 
profl:!ssional cleaning for a fixed price. 
Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 15  Strategic report 
OPERATING REVIEW 
France 
Total revenue was up 4.9 per cent and 
the Darty brand again outperformed 
the market for the period with like­
for-like sales increasing by 6.1 per 
cent. Darty traded well over the key 
Summer and Winter sales, 'Back to 
School' and Christmas periods. White 
goods sales remain solid, especially 
during the Summer when we saw 
strong hot weather-related sales of 
refrigeration and air conditioning 
products. Vision sales were weak at the 
start of the period against last year's 
football World Cup comparative but did 
improve thereafter supported by the 
Rugby World Cup and were particularly 
strong at the end of the financial 
year on the switchover of terrestrial 
channels (TNT) to high definition. This 
switchover impacted an estimated 
three million televisions, necessitating 
customers to either purchase a set-top 
box or a new television. Darty was well 
prepared for this event. commencing 
a customer awareness programme 
towards the end of 2015 supported by 
dedicated technical assistants at its 
call centres. At the switchover deadline 
in early April, Darty sold over 8,000 
set-top boxes, 3,000 HDMI cables 
and 800 new televisions every hour. 
Finally, in terms of product categories, 
communication sales remained strong 
but the multimedia market remained 
weak, although less so during a 
successful 'Back to School' campaign. 
As a result of our positive social 
relations, we were one of the first 
retailers able to open additional stores 
on a Sunday, following a change 
in the law. Those opened in Paris 
delivered double-digit sales growth. 
16 Darty pic Annual Report 2015/16 
Darty's web-generated sales continued 
to grow, up nearly 13 per cent to over 
16 per cent of total product sales and to 
17 per cent including Mistergooddeal.com. 
The 'Click & Collect' option proved 
increasingly popular, with sales increasing 
over 66 per cent. accounting for over 29 
per cent of Darty's web sales compared to 
over 19 per cent last year. This popularity 
was highlighted on Christmas Eve when 
a record 64 per cent of web sales were 
'Click & Collect'. We also saw the best 
ever Sunday trading on Darty.com during 
the Big Weekend in November and a 
record 1.4 million visits to Darty.com on 
the first day of the Winter sale in January. 
Total visits to Darty.com rose over 11 per 
cent to over 188 million with total revenue 
exceeding €400 million for the first time. 
Gross margin saw some benefit in the 
first quarter from a favourable product 
mix with a greater weighting on higher 
margin white goods, but was weaker at 
the end of the year from the very strong 
sales of lower margin vision products. 
Overall gross margin for France was 
down 70 basis points, including 20 basis 
points benefit from Mistergooddeal.com 
and 50 basis points dilutive impact 
from the franchise business. 
With costs under control, retail profit 
was up 39 per cent to €97.0 million 
compared to €70.0 million in the prior 
year. This included €21.5 million of gross 
property profits (2015: €6.8 million), the 
first significant profits from the franchise 
business, breakeven performance from 
Mistergooddeal.com (2015 retail loss: 
€7.7 million), and a halving of losses 
from the kitchens operation. 
During the period one store opened, 
two stores closed, three were 
extended, one was refurbished and 
five relocated. We also added new 
kitchen ranges to a further 11 stores, 
bringing the total number of stores 
with a kitchen offer to 82. 
Belgium and the Netherlands 
At Vanden Borre in Belgium and BCC in 
the Netherlands, overall revenue was 
up 1.0 per cent aided by the full year 
effect of the acquisition of 18 stores 
by BCC in February 2015. Like-for-like 
sales were down 3.8 per cent. Positive 
sales at Vanden Borre were more than 
offset by the sales disruption at BCC 
resulting from the implementation of a 
new warehouse IT system which impacted 
stock availability. Web-generated 
sales continued to grow strongly, up 
nearly 13 per cent to over 14 per cent 
of total product sales with enhanced 
delivery options, including next day 
delivery for large goods and evening 
delivery for smaller items, driving 
very good growth at Vanden Borre. 
Overall for the period, gross margin 
was down 20 basis points, with a 
small improvement at BCC partially 
offsetting a decline at Vanden Borre in 
competitive market conditions. Total 
costs increased 6 per cent reflecting 
the store acquisition by BCC. The retail 
profit for the period was €4.9 million 
compared to €14.8 million in the prior 
year. Vanden Borre saw a small decline 
in retail profits, while BCC's losses 
increased by €9.1 million due to the 
disruption caused by the implementation 
of the IT system. A new system to 
correct the issues was implemented at 
the start of the new financial year. 
During the period, at Vanden Borre 
we opened two new stores and 
refurbished four stores. Vanden Borre 
will open its first stand-alone kitchen 
store in partnership with lxina in the 
first half of the new financial year. 
At BCC we refurbished nine stores. 
