 	 10	 bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010				 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts
overview
after	a	 year	 which	 saw	 variable	 rates	 of	 recovery	 across	 our	
major	 markets,	i	 am	 pleased	 to	 report	 that	 the	 Group	 has	 made	 a	
substantial	 recovery	 from	 the	 loss	 reported	 in	 2009.	s ales	 increased	
by	 14.8%	 to	 £499.8m.	the	 improvement	 was	 underpinned	 by	
the	 success	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 announced	 in	 2008	
and	 the	 continuing	 focus	 on	 tight	 operational	 and	 balance	 sheet	
management.	operating	 profit	 recovered	 to	 £51.2m	 and	 borrowings	
dropped	 from	 £85.5m	 to	 £51.3m.
w e	 saw	 improvement	 in	 the	 automotive	 and	 general	 industrial	 (a Gi)	
markets	 although	 volumes	 remain	 some	 way	 below	 the	 levels	 of	
2008.	the	 aerospace,	 defence	 and	 energy	 (ade)	markets	 tend	 to	
peak	 later	 in	 the	 economic	 cycle	 and	 sales	 growth	 reflected	 this.	
as	a	 result	 of	 the	 restructuring	 programme	 the	 Group	 has	 now	
exited	 large	 amounts	 of	 unprofitable	 commodity	 business,	 and	 is	
actively	 growing	 its	 higher	 added	 value	 services.	b odycote	 should	 be	
capable	 of	 delivering	 improved	 through-cycle	 returns	 going	 forward.
sustainaBility
the	safety	 performance	 of	 the	 Group	 is	 closely	 monitored	 at	
all	 management	 and	board	 meetings.	bodycote	 is	 committed	
to	 improvements	 in	 employee	s afety	 and	 Health	 performance	 to	
ensure	 that	 all	 employees	 and	 visitors	 operate	 in	 a	 safe	 working	
environment.	the	 Company	 continues	 to	 gain	 accreditations	 for	
its	 environmental	 compliance.	at	 the	 end	 of	 2010	 over	 80%	 of	
its	 facilities	 had	 met	 the	 requirements	 for	iso	14001.	we	 also	
track	 energy	 and	 water	 usage	 and	 reductions	 are	 being	 realised	
although	 more	 needs	 to	 be	 done	 to	 reach	 our	 internal	 targets.	
Further	 information	 regarding	 the	 Group’s	 objectives	 in	 relation	
to	 sustainability	 can	 be	 found	 on	 page	 28.
DiviDenD
in	 2009	 the	board	 recommended	 a	 maintained	 dividend	 despite	
the	 challenges	 posed	 by	 the	 downturn,	 based	 upon	 its	 confidence	
that	 actions	 taken	 by	 the	 new	 management	 team	 would	 restore	 the	
Company	 to	 a	 satisfactory	 level	 of	 profitability	 and	 cash	 generation.	
the	board	 is	 satisfied	 with	 the	 steady	 improvement	 in	 results	
throughout	 2010	 and	 is	 confident	 in	 the	 future	 outlook	 for	 the	
business.	the	board	 is	 recommending	 that	 a	 final	 dividend	 of	
5.75p	 be	 paid	 to	 shareholders,	 giving	 an	 increased	 total	 of	 8.7p	
(4.8%	 increase)	 for	 the	 full	 year.		
CHairMan’s	 stateMent
alan	thomson
Chairman
the	financial	 turmoil	
of	 the	 past	 two	 years	
has	 been	 testing	 for	 the	
Group,	 but	 the	board	
believes	 that	bodycote	
has	 emerged	 strengthened	
by	 the	 challenges	 which	
it	 has	 faced.	 	 business	 review	 :	 Corporate	 GovernanCe	 :	 aCCounts				bodyCote	 annual	 report	 2010	 11
BoarD
after	the	 changes	 made	 to	 the	 composition	 of	 the	board	 in	
2008	 and	 2009	 the	 membership	 was	 unchanged	 in	 2010	 and	
should	 remain	 so	 throughout	 2011.	during	 the	 year,	 in	 accordance	
with	 its	 usual	 practice,	 the	board	 conducted	 a	 formal	 internal	
evaluation	 of	 its	 performance,	 including	 that	 of	 the	 Chairman.	
in	 2011	 the	board	 has	 decided	 that	 this	 process	 will	 be	 carried	
out	 by	 an	 external	 facilitator	 with	 the	 results	 being	 reported	 in	 the	
2011	annual	report.	this	 external	 evaluation	 will	 assist	 the	 Chairman	
in	 the	 process	 of	 gradually	 refreshing	board	 membership	 to	 meet	
the	 changing	 requirements	 of	 a	 growing	 business.	during	 the	 last	
year	 all	board	 members	 received	 training	 on	 current	 topics	 including	
reporting	 standards,	 risk	 management	 and	 sustainability.	
in	 line	 with	 the	 revised	 Governance	 code	 all	directors	 have	 agreed	
to	 seek	 re-election	 at	 the	annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	april.	
summary
the	financial	 turmoil	 of	 the	 past	 two	 years	 has	 been	 testing	 for	
the	 Group,	 but	 the	board	 believes	 that	bodycote	 has	 emerged	
strengthened	 by	 the	 challenges	 which	 it	 has	 faced.	with	 a	 strong	
balance	 sheet	 and	 an	 excellent	 management	 team	 we	 face	 the	
future	 with	 confidence.		
despite	the	 mixed	 business	 climate	 over	 the	 last	 twelve	 months	
the	 Group	 has	 delivered	 a	 significant	 improvement	 in	 performance	
and	 is	 well	 positioned	 for	 the	 future.	this	 is	 largely	 due	 to	 the	 hard	
work	 and	 commitment	 of	stephen	 Harris	 and	 his	 colleagues	 around	
the	 world.	the	board	 congratulates	 them	 on	 their	 achievements	
and	 commitment	 which	 have	 resulted	 in	 increased	 value	 for	
shareholders.	bodycote	 remains	 a	 first	 class	 business	 with	 good	
prospects	 for	 the	 future.
a.	m.	thomson
Chairman	
24	 February	 2011
