 2
The 2009 financial year was the most challenging in recent
memory. The credit crunch continuing throughout the year
and the recession starting last Autumn had a severe impact
on the economy in general, and on the property market in
particular. Despite having tightened property lending criteria
in the Spring of 2008, the Group has experienced an
unprecedented rise in the number of non performing 
assets in the property loan book.
A full strategic review of the business was undertaken in
the year. This review received the full support of our
banking syndicate and underpinned the new two year
banking agreement in March 2009.  
Performance Summary
Against this background, and given that property loans
comprise over 63% of our loan book, our results for the
year ended 30 June 2009 have been severely affected by 
a high level of provisions. Impairment charges of £66.7m
(2008: £7.4m) were taken against loans believed to be at
risk, of which approximately 82% relates to the property
portfolio. This was the major factor in producing an
operating loss before taxation and exceptional items of
£48.9m (2008: profit of £13.1m) and fully diluted losses per
share of 163.99p (2008: earnings per share of 
35.17p). The net assets of the Group fell to £10.9m 
(2008: £58.2m).
Dividend Policy
The Group has agreed with its banking group not to make
dividend distributions in the short term. The suspension of
dividend payments has the benefit of preserving cash for
the Group.
Our people
A number of our staff left the Group during the year as a
result of phased restructuring. I would like to thank them for
their contribution to the Group and to wish them well in
their future careers. 
We remain confident that the professionalism and
commitment of our remaining staff will serve us well as the
challenging times continue. On behalf of the Board, I would
like to thank all of our employees for the tremendous efforts
they have made in a time of unprecedented change.
Given the downsizing of the Group and the contraction of
its asset base, the risk management function is now being
embraced within the operating divisions. In line with this
structural change, David Bowles has resigned from the
Davenham Board with immediate effect. We would like to
thank him for his contribution to the development of the
Group and wish him success in his future career.
Summary
The economy is expected to remain difficult in the year
ahead. The March 2009 refinancing and restructuring was
designed to allow the Group to meet the continuing
challenges of working out the non performing elements of
its book in order to position it to benefit from an eventual
economic recovery. Nevertheless, a renegotiation of the
banking agreement is likely to be required during the
current financial year.
James Kerr-Muir
Chairman
29 September 2009
Davenham Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009
Chairman’s Statement
