 10 Bodycote plc
Annual Report 2011
Chairman’s statement
Overview
In my 2010 statement I indicated that, following the significant 
restructuring undertaken by the Group, Bodycote should be 
capable of delivering improved through-cycle returns. The 2011 
results provide proof of this progress, despite the broad macro-
economic uncertainty which we encountered throughout the year.
Of particular relevance was the step change in basic headline EPS 
(+78.7%) which reflects the strategic changes to the business in 
the last three years. Just as satisfying was the increase in the 
return on capital employed to 16.9%, supported by a positive net 
cash position at the year end. The renewed vigour at all levels 
within the Group, linked to the revitalised Bodycote business 
model, underpins the Board’s confidence that further progress 
in all aspects of our operations can be achieved.
Dividend
Taking into consideration the ongoing improvement in the Group’s 
results and its strengthened financial position the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 7.3p per share payable in May 
2012 following shareholder approval at the AGM. Together with 
the interim dividend of 3.6p per share paid in November 2011, the 
total dividend for the year will amount to 10.9p costing £20.7m, 
which represents an increase of 25.3% when compared to the 
2010 amount. 
Governance
I recognise that one of the most important tasks as Chairman of 
the Board is to ensure that the Group at all times operates to the 
highest standards. By this I mean that the Board operates 
effectively, that there are proper procedures to identify and 
evaluate business risks and that we continue to embed an 
appropriate internal control culture across the Group. Achievement 
of these objectives will ensure that the whole business operates in 
an effective and ethical manner. This year we have taken steps to 
boost our employee training, health and safety procedures and 
sustainability reporting. Further details of progress in these areas 
are reported in the Governance section of the Annual Report. By 
operating effectively to the highest standards, while maintaining 
the drive at all levels continually to improve our business policies 
and procedures, I believe that the seeds of our future success 
are being sown. 
The renewed vigour at all levels 
within the Group, linked to the 
revitalised Bodycote business 
model, underpins the Board’s 
confidence that further progress 
in all aspects of our operations 
can be achieved.
Alan Thomson
Chairman Bodycote plc 11
Annual Report 2011
Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information
Board
The composition of the Board remained unchanged throughout 
2011. It is an effective Board which brings together a group of 
individuals with an appropriate combination of business skills, 
management experience and industry knowledge. The Bodycote 
Board is small by design and its members interact well, with each 
member contributing fully at our meetings. Every year I evaluate 
the effectiveness of the Board and its members following 
interviews with each of my colleagues and also with external 
advisers. At our November 2011 Nominations Committee meeting 
we identified that, while the Board was effective, there was a 
need to broaden the Board membership, particularly with respect 
to gender, ethnicity and age. We have engaged an international 
search firm to identify suitable candidates with relevant hands-on 
experience. I hope to be able to report on the successful outcome 
of this search in the coming months.
Summary
The successful restructuring of Bodycote over the last few years 
has resulted in encouraging levels of sales growth and an excellent 
profit and margin improvement. At the same time, strong cash 
flow focus and tight balance sheet controls have resulted in a 
positive net cash position. We have, therefore, increased the 
dividend by 25.3% in 2011.
These results have been attained through the efforts of Stephen 
Harris our CEO and his 5,500 colleagues across the globe who 
have worked tirelessly to achieve this improvement in the 
Company’s fortunes. On your behalf I would like to thank all of 
them, for their ongoing contribution to the success of your 
Company.
I said last year that Bodycote is a first class business with good 
prospects for the future. I remain firmly of that view. 
A.M. Thomson
Chairman 
23 February 2012
