 “I believe that the Group will continue to 
deliver positive returns in the years ahead. 
Underpinned by our continued focus upon 
excellent customer service, strong cash 
management and the quality of our global 
workforce, I look forward to the future with 
confidence. ”
Alan Thomson l Chairman
Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 10
Chairman’s statement
Overview
Against the backdrop of a weak economic environment, particularly 
in Europe, I am pleased to report that Bodycote made further 
progress in 2012. In line with our strategy to provide thermal 
processing services on a global scale, we made a number of 
acquisitions in the USA at a cost of £84.7m. These represent the 
first portfolio additions the Group has made since 2008. Going 
forward we will continue to seek out opportunities to expand the 
Group through a combination of organic growth initiatives in new 
markets and technologies while seeking to build new plants and 
acquire new businesses.
Despite the adverse movement in exchange rates, headline 
earnings per share at 37 .4p grew by 14.4%, headline operating 
margins exceeded 16% and operating profits were fully backed by 
positive cash generation. The return on capital employed increased 
to an impressive 19.5%.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 8.3p, an increase of 
13.7%, which will be paid to shareholders on 7 May 2013 subject to 
approval at the AGM. This brings the total dividend for 2012 to 12.3p 
(2011: 10.9p) costing £23.4m, which is a year on year increase of 
12.8%.
Governance
As Chairman, one of my primary responsibilities is to ensure 
that the Group operates to the highest standards in all aspects 
of governance and risk management. Our aim within Bodycote 
is to manage a growing business effectively, while ensuring that 
proper operating procedures are maintained at all times in each 
of the 26 countries where we operate. Transparency is central to 
this objective and you will find more detail about our approach and 
progress over the last year in the Corporate Governance section 
starting on page 38. This year’s Corporate Governance report now 
fully reflects the changes introduced in the UK Governance Code 
(The Code) in June 2010.
A feature of the Board’s agenda this year was the commissioning 
of an externally facilitated review of the Board’s performance. While 
the outcome was favourable, it did provide useful insight enabling 
the Board to continue its development.
During the year I met a number of Bodycote’s major shareholders 
and received positive feedback from them on their views of the 
Group. Going forward I will maintain this regular dialogue with our 
shareholders and look forward to meeting increasing numbers 
of you at this year’s AGM, when there will be an opportunity to 
discuss the Group’s business and achievements.
Board Changes
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank Hans Vogelsang for 
his substantial contribution to Bodycote over the last 10 years, 
particularly as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. Hans will be retiring from the Board 
on 24 April 2013 at the end of our AGM. Hans was an invaluable 
supporter when in 2007 the Board took the strategic decision 
to dispose of the Testing division which enabled us to focus on 
revitalising the Thermal Processing business. His wise counsel will 
be missed.
Following an international search led by external consultants we 
welcomed Eva Lindqvist, our first female member, to the Board 
in June 2012. A Swedish national and a qualified engineer, Eva 
brings a wealth of skills and international experience, particularly 
of operating in Asia and North America. In addition to serving on 
the Nomination and Audit Committees she has agreed to chair the 
Remuneration Committee. Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information
www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY 11
People
Over the past year I have continued to visit our operations around 
the Group. Following our first business acquisitions for some years 
in North America, I was delighted by the welcome extended to the 
Bodycote team by our new colleagues. I continue to be impressed 
by the commitment and professionalism of our employees and 
their ongoing desire for the Group to grow and prosper. Our people 
are undoubtedly our key asset and I am certain that the long-term 
opportunities for growth mean that our employees will continue to 
find Bodycote a place where they can enjoy rewarding careers. On 
behalf of the Board I congratulate them all for delivering another 
year of successful trading and financial performance.
Summary
As you will read in this Annual Report Bodycote is in very good 
shape and has once again delivered value in terms of total 
shareholder return and the Board’s recommendation is for a 12.8% 
dividend increase.
I believe that the Group will continue to deliver positive returns 
in the years ahead. Underpinned by our continued focus upon 
excellent customer service, strong cash management and the 
quality of our global workforce, I look forward to the future with 
confidence.
 
A.M. Thomson
Chairman
27 February 2013
