 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc Your Local Water Company
05 04
Overview
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that the Group made 
significant progress in the first year of our new 
five-year business plan (2015-2020) and we can look 
forward with confidence to achieving our customer 
performance commitments.
We have made significant commercial changes to 
the Company which have increased our operational 
performance and sharpened our focus on providing 
an even better service for our customers.
Financial performance
Our financial performance continues to be satisfactory 
with revenue of £23.1 million (2015: £24.6 million) and 
profit from operations of £6.6 million (2015:  
£7.5 million).
In common with most water companies, our  
financial performance was impacted by the PR14  
final determination, which imposed a reduction in 
prices and therefore contributed to the downturn 
in revenue in the current year. However, this was 
mitigated by an improvement in operating expenses 
and financing costs. 
Following the agreement of a five-year, £30 million 
revolving credit facility early in the year, the Group is 
well placed to deliver the investment plan agreed with 
Ofwat for the period to 2020. The facility provides cost 
effective funding to support the delivery of the largest 
capital investment plan in the Group’s history.
Strong progress has been made against the Group’s 
operational key performance indicators this year and 
this, alongside the financial certainty provided by the 
agreement of financing at favourable interest rates, 
ensures that the Group can progress confidently into 
the second year of AMP6. 
We proposed a final dividend of 42.0p per share on  
9 June, which is in accordance with our AMP6 divided 
policy published in May 2015.
Customer care
Customer service and care for our most vulnerable 
customers is of paramount importance for everyone  
at Dee Valley Water. This has been a key area of focus 
and I am proud to see the continuous improvement in 
our performance.
Customer satisfaction surveys show our approval 
ratings continue to go up – our own independent 
surveys say 92% of the domestic customers who 
interacted with us are satisfied with the service  
they received.
An independent survey for the Consumer Council for Water 
(CCWater) has confirmed that Dee Valley Water has the most 
satisfied customers (87%) of all the water companies in England 
and Wales when it comes to value for money.
In addition to high-quality customer service, we recognise that 
our customers also want low bills and a wide range of payment 
options. While we have the fourth lowest water bills in England and 
Wales, the difficulties faced by our many vulnerable customers is 
a key concern. From 1 April 2016 we launched our own social tariff 
for those with low household incomes. Eligible customers can 
get 30% off their bill. To supplement this and provide a local and 
personal service, we continue to offer flexible payment plans and 
our customer liaison team visit vulnerable elderly customers to 
give advice and help them to pay their bills.
Improved performance
We have embraced Ofwat’s shift in focus from capital expenditure 
(capex) based solutions to total expenditure (totex) and customer 
outcomes. This has enabled us to move away from primarily 
delivering high cost capital schemes. Instead, we are concentrating 
on how best to provide a resilient and high-quality supply of 
drinking water for our customers as efficiently as possible.
A good example of this is the work of our network teams who 
successfully cleaned 290km (one seventh of our network) in a 
priority effort to eliminate incidents of discoloured water caused 
by naturally occurring manganese – which is harmless to health. 
Our customers experienced an immediate benefit. As a result of 
this programme of work our water quality, mains replacement 
programme and burst mains record, have all improved.
We have continued with our strong environmental performance, 
and once again, we expect to have one of the lowest levels of 
leakage in the industry. Preliminary figures indicate that our 
leakage for 2015-2016 was 78.6 litres per property – well below 
Ofwat’s target of 90.8 litres per property. 
Culture change
This continued improvement in performance would not have been 
possible without the efforts of our people and teams. During the 
year the company has undergone a major cultural change.  
It culminated in us adopting a new vision and values to underpin 
and support our greater focus on placing the customer at the  
heart of the business.
Our new vision and values were introduced after extensive 
consultation and involvement with our people, who gave significant 
input. They have welcomed the clearer focus and greater 
commitment to our customers.
Future progress
Our Board continues to focus on driving change, innovation 
and greater efficiency within the company. Customer service 
and totex outperformance remain a key focus to ensure we can 
deliver effectively and efficiently for our customers and other 
stakeholders. We are well placed to achieve this with a Board 
membership which has worked at the highest level within the 
water industry. 
While the Board is pleased with the progress we have made and 
continue to make at the start of this new five-year business plan 
period, we are not complacent. There is still much to do if we are 
to achieve our vision to be the leading water service provider, with 
our local customers at heart.
This is how we will ensure we are delivering for all of our 
customers, our people, shareholders and the wider community. 
Jon Schofield 
Chairman
290km
we cleaned one seventh  
of our network
