 Chief executive’s review
Chief executive’s review |   PAGE 5
A strong performance
I am pleased to report that Debtmatters has had an
excellent year in which it has doubled its share of the IVA
market to 14% in the first quarter of 2006 while delivering
impressive profit and growth figures.
The Board is focused on accelerating the Company's
growth in the year ahead as we continue to provide
indebted consumers with effective solutions to their debt
problems. Total numbers of IVAs registered with the DTI in
the year ending 2005 exceeded 20,000 up from a total of
10,752 in the year ending 2004. Based on current monthly
run rates there are expected to be in excess of 40,000 IVAs
in the year ending 2006. 
Debtmatters is poised to take full advantage of this growing
market by capitalising on its cost effective marketing
strategies, industry leading IVA processing times and quality
service levels.
Strengthened management 
team and support
I am also pleased to welcome Mark Prideaux to the role of
Group Finance Director. Mark, a Chartered Accountant and
licensed Insolvency Practitioner, has been with Debtmatters
since December 2003 and has been on the Company's
Operations Board since its flotation. He has significant
knowledge of Debtmatters' core IVA business as well as an
in depth knowledge of the wider insolvency market place.
This experience will play a key role as Debtmatters
continues to grow its core IVA business as well as
assessing the opportunities to develop ancillary services. 
In addition, David Rankin was appointed to the Operations
Board as Insolvency Director. David, an experienced
Insolvency Practitioner, has been with the Company since
August 2005 and has played a key role in developing
Debtmatters' systems and processes to support its
significant growth post flotation.
I believe that we now have the management team as well
as supporting functions in place to support our growth
plans going forward. 
Business growth
Building on our successes to date, the Board has made 
a number of strategic investments during the period under
Ges Ratcliffe
Chief Executive Chief executive’s review
PAGE 6|   Chief executive’s review
review to support its future development. This has 
included the acquisition of Unique Business Finance Limited
(“Unique”), which has operated from Preston since 2003
and undertakes all aspects of corporate insolvency and
bankruptcy work. This acquisition has enabled 
Debtmatters to undertake other types of complementary
insolvency work.
Debtmatters also entered into an agreement with an
established money advice organisation for the exclusive
referral of IVAs to Debtmatters. This business, which has a
UK wide client base is currently generating significant
numbers of referrals per month and represents a
partnership that Debtmatters is actively seeking to grow in
the short to medium term. The Board is also looking at
suitable acquisitions which will complement the Group's
business model and broaden the range of services offered.
Marketing strategy
The bulk of Debtmatters’ business comes from our
marketing activities. Our advertising strategy is targeted and
understands the consumer in debt and is therefore highly
effective. This, coupled with detailed analysis of response
rates and aggressive buying, gives us the ability to further
scale our operation, taking advantage of the significant
opportunity for growth in our sector.
As advertising spend has increased so has brand
awareness, improving consumer trust and acceptance of
our proposition. Greater spend through the new financial
year will further strengthen our brand name.
Throughout the past year Debtmatters has been a leader in
the sector in terms of cost per case acquired. Investment in
market research and innovative new advertisements will
enable us to maintain this situation.                
Increasing capacity
In order to support the growth of the business, we have
relocated our operations to a new, modern office at
Middlebrook in Bolton which has significantly increased our
capacity. We also have the capability to scale up our
operation further through securing flexible lease terms with
our landlord.
In addition, we have invested in our networks, telephony
and software systems in order to increase our long term IT
capacity. All of these investments support our growth as
Debtmatters establishes itself as a leading supplier of IVAs
in the UK. 
Key performance indicators
In a year of rapid expansion we are proud to have improved
or maintained many of our key performance indicators. 
At an operational level we enjoy one of the industry's 
fastest turnaround times for cases. This speed and
efficiency impacts favourably on both our conversion rates
and cash flow.
In addition, we are working towards ISO 9001 accreditation
in July. This is the internationally recognised standard for an
organisation's internal Quality Management and we
anticipate that it will enable us to better meet our
customers' needs whilst improving operational efficiency.
Our business at a glance
Debtmatters is a leading solutions provider to consumers
with significant debt problems Chief executive’s review
Chief executive’s review |   PAGE 7
Staff commitment
As Investors in People we are committed to the
professional and personal development of our team. 
Our operations board directors and managers work closely
with their teams to ensure that morale is strong and the
Company has many initiatives which involve staff in the
Company ethos on a personal and professional level.
We enjoy exceptionally low levels of staff turnover and have
been able to absorb a significant increase in numbers
without losing our strong sense of team spirit and identity.
We employ people who are loyal, problem solving and
innovative and as a result make a valuable contribution to
our business.  I would like to thank them all for their
commitment and hard work to date.  
Outlook
Debtmatters continues to deliver strong growth as 
it addresses the significant opportunities that exist within
the IVA market place. We have an efficient business 
model in place, which continues to deliver industry
leading turnaround times and a very effective cost of 
case acquisition. 
In addition to significant organic growth, the Board is
profiling a number of possible acquisitions which would
provide an immediate contribution to the group in terms of
earnings.This strategy, which is part of our longer term
outlook will complement the rapid growth of our core IVA
business and I Iook forward to updating shareholders in
due course.
Ges Ratcliffe
Chief Executive
Mission statement
Our mission is to provide the best possible advice to over
indebted consumers in a sympathetic manner, leading to
permanent solutions to their financial problems,
implemented quickly and effectively.
IVA
An IVA is a legally binding agreement between a debtor
and his/her creditors. Interest and charges are frozen and
affordable monthly payments are made over a period of 
typically five years.
At the end of the period any balances remaining are
written off by the creditors and the individual becomes 
free from debt.
