 Earnings per share up
+51.2%
Paul Carter
Chief Executive Offi cer
Chief Executive Offi cer’s Statement
06
I am pleased to report an 
excellent set of results for the year 
ended 31 July 2007 despite the 
publicised poor market conditions.
The board has 
worked hard to 
adapt our business 
model to meet the 
current challenges 
in the market and 
look to the future 
with a degree of 
cautious optimism.
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   8 18/1/08   10:29:30 Growth in financial Performance
The year is again a record year in all our key 
measures:
2007 2006 Change%
Revenues £11.6m £6.1m 90.2
Gross profit £9.4m £4.8m 95.8
Profit before tax £3.4m £2.1m 61.9
Significant Growth
The Group continues to deliver on all key 
performance indicators.  In particular, turnover and 
profits before tax have grown by 90.2% and 61.9% 
respectively over the 12 months to 31 July 2007.
The year started off with strong growth on the 
back of key marketing and sales activity. This 
led to good revenue growth and business 
development. The second half saw a change 
in the market conditions to which the Group 
responded with a slowdown in its marketing to 
preserve cash and profits whilst evaluating the 
potential outcomes and the optimum levels of 
marketing spend and operational resourcing.
The Group’s insolvency subsidiaries, Neville 
Eckley and Synergi Partners, which both deal 
primarily with IVAs, have both performed well. 
They saw good growth in this area in the early 
half of the year, slowing down to a steady state 
in the second half.  The quality of proposals 
continued to improve as has the number of 
acceptances and hence cases that continue 
into supervision.
The acquisition of Adie Financial Solutions 
Limited (‘AFS’), a provider of Trust Deeds and 
Sequestrations, which we announced on 25 May 
2007, has been successful and we expect this 
to continue.  The results to 31 July 2007 include 
trading from AFS for only 2 months. The Scottish 
market has been largely unaffected by all the 
issues that are currently being headlined within 
the rest of the United Kingdom and the Group’s 
fee levels remain steady and the percentage of 
acceptances of proposals high.
The Group’s debt management subsidiary, 
Debtcare, has had a good growth rate over the 
year and continues to be profitable.
Progress within Scarlet, the Group’s secured 
lending brokerage division, has been slow.  
Whilst performance has been steady, it has not 
achieved the same levels of growth as other 
areas of the business. With the recent well 
publicised difficulties in the sub-prime lending 
market and the expectation of house prices at 
best showing a small percentage increase in the 
next 12 months, the outlook for this business is one 
of slow growth.
Market Conditions
There has been a great deal of media coverage 
and speculation regarding the issues currently 
facing the IVA industry.
IVAs still have an important role to play. They are 
of fundamental importance to the UK banking 
industry and a key element of Government policy.  
It is expected that they will remain so for the 
foreseeable future. General economic conditions 
are such that levels of consumer indebtedness 
have hit record highs, long-term interest rates 
could yet increase further, levels of disposable 
incomes are at the lowest level as a proportion of 
overall income since 1997, new lending volumes 
are reducing and sub-prime lenders may have 
difficulties raising capital in the market place to 
lend in the future; such conditions inevitably lead 
to increased need for individuals to have to seek 
alternative methods to deal with debt issues.
Industry wide negotiations with creditors have 
been ongoing during most of the year with a 
consensus being reached on a number of areas. 
The area of fees has proved difficult to reach 
agreement on due in part to anti-competition 
laws preventing lenders and debt adviser firms 
coming together to agree a pricing structure.  
The most likely scenario concerning an outline 
fee structure appears to be one with fees based 
upon percentage of realisations coupled with an 
extended timescale over which fees will be paid.
This structure has had a negative impact on 
cash flows and we have seen evidence of this 
07
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
continued
Annual Report 2007
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   9 18/1/08   10:29:31 Chief Executive Offi cer’s Statement
continued
08 Annual Report 2007
within our own business over the past 6 months 
as mentioned in the Group’s interim statement.  
Additionally, there may be a reduction in the 
level of profi tability earned on each case 
although this will be offset in part by the 
introduction of more effi cient processing.
The business strategy of the Group has always 
been to offer independent advice to over-
indebted individuals and to have a range of 
services available, including those available from 
third parties.
I expect highly professional and effi cient fi rms, 
such as ourselves, to continue to achieve 
profi table growth.
Growth in Resources
Over the year the Group has continued to 
develop its product offerings and the requisite 
infrastructure.  The aim is to improve the overall 
effi ciency and effectiveness of the Group to be 
able to offer a range of solutions, including IVAs 
and Trust Deeds, debt management programmes, 
bankruptcy and secured loans or second 
mortgages, to over-indebted individuals.
I was delighted that Alan Adie and his team 
at AFS were able to join the Group. This has 
enabled us to expand our operations into the 
Scottish market through Trust Deeds (the Scottish 
equivalent to IVAs).  We have taken further 
opportunity to expand operations within Scotland 
by taking on additional facilities in Glasgow.
Selective acquisitions form an important part of 
the overall development of the Group and we 
continue to seek suitable candidates which we 
hope will become part of the Group.
The Group has also fi nished investing heavily 
in improving the overall infrastructure of the 
business.  The Chesterfi eld operations of the 
business have moved into their new 30,000 sq ft 
purpose built offi ces.
I am pleased to welcome Richard Arden to the 
Board as Finance Director also was appointed 
on 18 September 2007.  Richard was previously 
an executive Director of Westfi eld Contributory 
Health Scheme Limited, a leading provider 
of health insurance to the public where his 
responsibilities included fi nance, compliance 
and information communication technologies. 
Richard’s other experience has been at South 
Yorkshire Investment Fund Limited and Coopers 
& Lybrand, latterly PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
where he qualifi ed as a Chartered Accountant.  
Richard brings with him a wealth of experience 
operating in a low cost processing environment 
with excellent customer service.
I am also pleased that we were able to retain 
the experience of Stuart Cumberland who has 
taken the responsibility as the Board Director for 
Strategic and Commercial development.
In light of the changes within the debt 
management industry, as outlined above, 
together with the increased facilities within 
Chesterfi eld, a recent review of the Group’s 
operational structure was undertaken with a view 
to rationalise the number of separate business 
units operated. The objective is to maximise 
effi ciency and enable effective communication 
and knowledge transfer throughout the various 
businesses in the Group. This plan has been 
fully implemented and provides a platform to 
withstand the current structural changes within 
the IVA market place and position the Group to 
benefi t fully from the expected future increase in 
the demand for the current services provided.
Marketing Strategies
The change in the market with respect to IVAs in 
the second half of the year resulted in a switch 
in the marketing strategy. The advertising spend 
across all media was increased signifi cantly 
from October 2006 to February 2007 and a large 
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   10 18/1/08   10:29:32 number of leads generated which have been 
converted into client business across the Group in 
the second half of 2007.  From March onwards our 
approach to marketing was more cautious, with 
less expenditure, but with a focus on making the 
most effi cient use of our spend whilst at the same 
time reducing the associated operating costs.  
The Group spend is monitored closely. The priority 
is to be cash fl ow positive and remain profi table 
despite these diffi cult conditions.
The business continues to generate a signifi cant 
proportion of leads through marketing activities.  
Advertising is generic refl ecting our wide range of 
products. The Group believes that it is important 
to maximise our ability through advertising to assist 
current and potential clients.
The Group continues to develop affi liation links 
with a select number of preferred partners.  In 
our view, this is an excellent way of providing a 
balanced approach to client acquisition.
Current Business Overview
Since the year end the Group has continued 
to make progress despite the diffi cult market 
conditions.  It has remained profi table but it would 
be rash to make any predictions for the outcome 
of the current year.  We are confi dent and believe 
that this Group has a profi table future ahead of it.
The challenges ahead continue to be those 
we have addressed already: to improve the 
effi ciency and profi tability of the Group’s 
operations. The Group has already begun a 
managed process of streamlining operations 
to continue to generate improved profi tability. 
A signifi cant and ongoing review of costs and 
effi ciencies, including a number of potential 
redundancies, has commenced.
The reduction in marketing that started in the 
second half of the year led to fewer IVA proposals 
in the early part of the new year.  More recently 
close monitoring of our marketing spend has 
enabled an increase in the number of IVA and 
Trust Deed proposals and cases entering into debt 
management.  There is also an increasing number 
of proposals being accepted.
Finally, the market continuously changes and 
one of the keys to long-term success is one’s 
willingness and ability to adapt to the changing 
circumstances. This is nothing new to the Group 
or its management. We have one of the most 
experienced teams in the industry. Market turmoil 
may cause pain for some but it also presents 
opportunities and we are well placed to take 
advantage of these.
Paul Carter
CEO
18 January 2008
The market continuously 
changes and one of the keys 
to long-term success is one’s 
willingness and ability to adapt 
to the changing circumstances.
Chief Executive Offi cer’s Statement
continued
managed process of streamlining operations 
to continue to generate improved profi tability. 
A signifi cant and ongoing review of costs and 
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   11 18/1/08   10:29:37
