 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc
10 11
Financial Statements Your Local Water Company
Our Customer Performance Commitments
Consumer Council for Water
The independent representative  
of household and business  
water consumers.
Ofwat
The economic regulator of the water sector 
in England and Wales.
Welsh Government
The Welsh Government is responsible for 
the water industry in Wales.
Environment Agency
Monitors water resources – including 
how much water can be drawn from the 
environment.
Natural Resources Wales
Responsible for functions of the Countryside 
Council for Wales, Forestry Commission 
Wales and Environment Agency in Wales, as 
well as certain Welsh Government functions.
Consumer Council for Water Wales 
The independent representative of 
household and business water consumers 
in Wales.
Drinking Water Inspectorate
Provides independent reassurance that 
water supplies in England and Wales are safe 
and drinking water quality is acceptable to 
consumers.
Our Regulators
Customer Experience                Performance Target Measurement
Service Incentive Mechanism (SIM) 83.5 80 Score out of 100
Water supply Interruptions                                                   0.087 0.2 Hours lost per property for three hours or longer     
Discoloured water contacts 1.32* 2.8 Complaints per 1,000 population
Number of bursts 169 247 Mains bursts
Non-household Service Incentive 
Mechanism
82.0 80 Score out of 100
*Calendar Year
Reliability and Stability             
Leakage 78.6 90.8 Litres per property per day
Security of supply index 100% 100% Index score     
Per capita consumption and  
water efficiency
128** 131.44 Litres per person per day
Mean zonal compliance percentage 99.95%*** 99.95%
**Unaudited ***Calendar Year
The key performance indicators set by Ofwat for the company are summarised in two high-level areas 
which provide a broad overview of performance. Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc
12 13
Your Local Water Company Overview
Vision and Values
One Team
We work together as ‘one team’ to  
achieve our shared goals.
By sharing information, communicating well and 
helping each other, we can strengthen the customer 
and employee experience.
 
The company has undergone a major culture 
change in the past year which has culminated in it 
adopting a new vision and values to underpin and 
support its greater focus on placing the customer at 
the heart of the business.
The new vision and values were introduced after 
extensive consultation and involvement with Dee Valley 
Water people, who gave significant input. They have 
welcomed the clearer focus and greater commitment 
to our customers.
The benefits of having a clear set of values
A well-defined set of values ensures our people know what is 
required of them and are clear about how they are expected to 
perform. Everyone understands how each department should 
perform and what this means in practice.
Practices and procedures are quantifiable and consistent across 
the company – each employee understands what good looks like 
and what it means for them. There’s a better understanding of 
where we are and where we want to be. This reinforces everything 
being done and provides understanding of where improvements 
are required. This will be linked to reward via a company bonus 
structure. It can assist with succession planning in identifying the 
requirements for a role and how staff can develop to advance 
within the company.
Ownership
We hold ourselves accountable for the  
decisions and actions we take.
We are all jointly responsible for identifying issues 
and providing reliable solutions.
Passion
We are proud of what we do and bring  
commitment and enthusiasm to our work.
By caring about what we do, we deliver consistent, 
high-quality results and inspire those around us.
Trust
We trust each other to act responsibly and  
deliver on commitments.
We all have the ability to make the right decisions 
for our organisation and customers.
Respect
We respect each other and the environment  
within which we work and live.
We understand the importance of treating others  
as we would like to be treated and recognise the 
need to care for the environment.
Continuous Improvement
We look to do things better by continually evolving 
and improving the way we work.
By improving our processes and developing our 
people, we can be more efficient and provide a 
better service to our customers.
Our vision
We will be the leading water service provider, with 
our local customers at heart. 
Having a clear vision helps everyone at Dee Valley Water 
to understand how the company aspires to perform 
at the highest level across all of its operations and to 
provide industry leading customer service. 
All of our people have bought into our new vision  
and understand what is expected of them to help 
achieve this. 
Our values 
Our values are set out below. They summarise what we 
believe really matters and provide a framework for how 
things should be done. They are our guiding principles 
and underpin our behaviours. They will help us to 
achieve our vision. 
Our people know they must demonstrate these values 
in all that they do to ensure Dee Valley Water continues 
to improve its customer and operational performance 
and remains a great place to work.
Visual identity
Many of our customers will have noticed that we have changed 
our branding and visual identity – as shown in this Annual Report 
and Accounts. Dee Valley Water (and its people), now look like the 
modern, progressive, responsive company articulated and projected 
by its new vision and values.
Our vision is to be the leading water service 
provider, with our local customers at heart.  Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc
14 15
Your Local Water Company Strategic Review of the Year
Strategic Report - Review of the Year 
Our Customers
Our vision for customers
We began this first year of our new five-year business 
plan period with a thorough review of how we could 
best achieve our commitment to placing our customers 
at the heart of our business and how we could meet 
and exceed Ofwat’s increased focus on customer 
outcomes. The result has been a new vision for the way 
we should provide customer service.
In this new era of instant communication, multi-
channel services and 24hr delivery on promises, 
customer expectations and demands have changed. 
They expect so much more from utilities such as Dee 
Valley Water.
So our focus is much more on a customer led service. 
Excellence is achieved by speaking to and listening to 
our local customers; observing what they do, how they 
are interacting with us and understanding what they 
want. For example, when making complaints or asking 
questions about billing. 
The key is identifying and understanding where the 
service we provide or interaction with our customers, 
is making life difficult for them and leaving them 
dissatisfied or mistrustful of the overall quality of our 
performance as a vital utility. 
This approach has already provided us with valuable 
insights into what we need to do to improve our service 
and enabled us to make significant improvements.
A key aspect of this new vision is to ensure we have an 
external view of our service. What does the customer 
experience? What view do they take away of Dee Valley 
Water? This is how customer attitudes are formed and 
how they measure our levels of service. Our aim is to 
get the same customer service scores as John Lewis 
and Amazon.
For example, we carried out an online survey with 
3,000 customers to identify and understand what was 
driving confusion and complaints about their bill. This 
has resulted in the bill being re-designed.
Polite, friendly, clear communication which was 
refreshing considering the difficulties one has 
experienced when phoning other companies.
Our charges are the fourth lowest 
in England and Wales.
How we have improved our customer contact centre
We carried out a full review of what matters to our customers and 
of our capabilities and response times. What really matters to 
our customers is being able to talk to us and to get an immediate 
response. Our billing and accounts team have really responded 
to the challenge and the customer contact centre has improved 
service levels dramatically. Lost call rates have plummeted –  
98% of customers are answered within 30 seconds.
By continuously reviewing our performance, we have implemented 
new systems, processes and training for customer facing staff. For 
example, we have upgraded our telephony systems and put quality 
monitoring in place internally. 
The adoption of our new Vision and Values (see pages 12 and 
13) has led to a new approach in how we communicate with 
customers, whether face to face, by telephone, email or text 
message. This ensures we always adopt the appropriate ‘tone of 
voice’ values that underpin this and stay true to our commitment to 
place our local customers ‘at the heart’ of the business. 
As a relatively small water only supplier whose customers are 
no more than 40 minutes away, we are in a rare position for this 
industry with opportunities to interact and gain feedback from 
them in person. 
A complete review of our written materials and communication 
techniques has been completed and change is underway to 
complement our new tone of voice. Our customers don’t want 
their local water company to sound corporate and distant, so 
an ‘accessible and easy to understand’ way of communicating 
has been designed and our people have been trained in how to 
respond in a friendly, knowledgeable and caring manner. Dee Valley Group plc
16 17
Your Local Water Company Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016
Rant and Rave
Percentage breakdown of scores:
Scores 
All
1 2 3 4 5
6,870 2.92% 1.62% 2.10% 9.00% 83.93%
As Ofwat’s quality of service survey shows, there has been pleasing 
confirmation that we are making good progress from key industry 
organisations. Another example comes from the Consumer Council 
for Water (CCWater). Its annual Written Customer Complaints 
report says written complaints from Dee Valley Water customers  
to CCWater have fallen by 27% in the past year.
This is the fourth year in succession that complaints to the 
company have fallen. Complaints have dropped by 64.9% since 
2010-11 to 20 per 10,000 customers.
Another domestic report from CCWater says Dee Valley Water has 
the most satisfied customer (87%) of all the water companies in 
England and Wales when it comes to value for money. 
Our customers were also the most satisfied (95%) with the response 
they receive from contact with the company.
Vulnerable customers
While we have the fourth lowest water bills in England and Wales, 
the difficulties faced by our many vulnerable customers is a key 
concern. An indicator of this is that on 1 April 2016 we launched 
our own social tariff for those with low household incomes. We 
consulted with our customers – using surveys and focus groups – 
before launching the tariff. Eligible customers can get up to 30% off 
their bill. 
We continue to offer a very wide range of flexible payment plans 
and our customer liaison team visit vulnerable elderly customers 
to collect their bills. 
Gaining a better understanding of the needs of our customers 
is vital and we are working with consultants to improve our local 
knowledge to ensure we can effectively target customers in 
vulnerable circumstances to offer tailored solutions to their needs. 
How are we performing?
Detailed customer research and extensive feedback 
mechanisms play a key role in fulfilling our commitment 
to understanding our customers’ needs. Research 
undertaken by Ofwat – and our own – clearly shows a 
steady and consistent improvement in our customer 
satisfaction scores. 
Ofwat’s annual quality of service survey of the 18 water 
suppliers in England and Wales last year placed Dee 
Valley Water in fourth place – we were eighth the year 
before. Our SIM (Service Incentive Mechanism) score 
moved up from 78 to 83.5. Ofwat’s target for us was 80. 
This improvement is very noticeable in our billing and 
customer accounts team. We are pleased that they have 
gone from being 10th overall in the last quarter of 2014-
15 to finishing second overall at the end of 2015-2016. 
In the past three quarters of this period we were placed 
first, second and first.
Our latest independent benchmark survey shows 92% 
of the domestic customers who interacted with us are 
satisfied with the service they received. There is a high 
degree of trust in us as a valued service provider in 
comparison to the likes of other emergency services. 
While these surveys are helpful, real time daily 
feedback is vital if we are to achieve our vision. In 
September last year, we launched Rant & Rave in our 
customer contact centre. This is a feedback engine that 
sends out a quick and simple text survey after every 
contact with our customers. 
They are asked to rate us between one and five. If 
any score is below three, one of our people ring the 
customer immediately to seek to resolve the issue. Rant 
and Rave has received rave reviews from our people in 
the customer contact centre and will be rolled out to 
other areas of the business throughout this year. 
Excellent customer service.  
Query handled with precision and care.
Complaints  
have dropped to
20
per 10,000
customers
Strategic Review of the Year
