 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc
06 07
Your Local Water Company Overview
Chief Executive’s Statement
I have completed my first full year in Dee Valley 
Water and it has been a pleasure to work alongside 
our people and external stakeholders to bring 
significant improvements in service and operating 
performance for our customers.
We achieved a positive performance in the past year 
and can look forward to the next four years, and 
beyond, secure in the knowledge that we are laying 
strong foundations for long-term success. 
When I started in Dee Valley Water in August 2014 it was 
clear we had high-quality people with extensive local 
knowledge. It was also clear that this local knowledge 
should be used to drive improvements in customer 
service and operating performance. 
This coincided with the change in regulatory focus 
by Ofwat from capital expenditure (capex) based 
solutions to total expenditure (totex) and customer 
outcomes, which gave smaller companies such as ours 
the opportunity to be more flexible and agile in our 
means of delivering performance improvements.  
To fully take advantage of this regulatory shift we 
needed to create a culture that is forward looking 
with local customers at its heart. Achieving this 
would position us to deliver long-term value for our 
shareholders and external stakeholders. 
The changes we have made during the past twelve 
months have laid the foundations. We have 
harnessed the knowledge and skills of our people 
and teams to develop a shared companywide vision. 
We have simplified and modernised our working 
practices to ensure our managers can easily access 
the best operational and customer information; 
we have made structural changes to ensure we are 
organised in a way that delivers a great service on 
behalf of our customers. 
Everyone at Dee Valley Water now understands 
fully – and is completely aligned with – our vision to 
be the leading water service provider with our local 
customers at heart. (See Vision and Values on pages  
12 and 13). 
Our performance 
Our performance during the past year has demonstrated that we 
have the ability to bring about rapid improvements in a short space 
of time. This includes achieving industry leading results in some 
areas. However, we are not complacent and there are still areas 
where we need to continue to improve.
The safe and secure delivery of high-quality, wholesome 
drinking water is our primary objective. In the previous year our 
water quality performance was not to the standard we and our 
customers expect and require. Both our compliance and customer 
service were below the industry average. 
We rectified this by re-organising our teams to enable us to 
double the length of our annual mains cleaning programme and 
delivered this in the first quarter of the year. This tremendous 
effort by our networks teams, combined with improved customer 
communication, enabled us to achieve significant improvements 
in both water quality compliance and customer contacts for 
discolouration, where we improved our performance by more than 
40% year on year. 
We will continue to make improvements in both these areas, but 
with the work done this year, and the plans we have in place for the 
next four years, we are confident we will outperform the regulatory 
targets set by Ofwat and our Customer Challenge Group.
Our customers expect us to supply high-quality water free from 
interruptions. We have traditionally delivered excellent service and 
our performance in 2015-2016 was no different. 
A mild winter, combined with the benefits of a re-organised 
management structure for our below ground assets, has enabled 
us to respond more quickly to network problems. The year saw a 
30% reduction in the number of bursts, a 50% reduction in supply 
interruptions over three hours, and a stable performance for 
leakage, a measure where we are consistently one of the industry’s 
leading companies.
We’re confident we’ll outperform targets set by  
Ofwat and our Customer Challenge Group.
When customers have a problem and need to contact us, they 
expect to receive a level of service comparable with the best 
they would receive from any organisation. We are committed 
to improving ours to levels that stand comparison with the best 
across all industries. 
In 2015-2016 we modernised our management structure in 
customer service and invested in systems that have enabled us 
to transform our performance. Ofwat’s qualitative measure of 
customer service shows we have improved from eighth to fourth 
year on year; second for billing and sixth for clean water. On Ofwat’s 
quantitative measure we have seen a 5% reduction in unwanted 
contacts and a 13% reduction in complaints year on year. These 
improvements have increased our overall Ofwat SIM (Service 
Incentive Mechanism) score by 7% from 78 to 83.5 year on year.
It is vital that we deliver these high levels of service at a price that 
is affordable for customers. Our charges are the fourth lowest in 
England and Wales and we offer a full range of payment options  
to help customers manage their bill in a way that is most 
convenient for them. 
From 1 April 2016, we implemented a social tariff scheme to help 
customers who require further assistance. We are pleased and 
proud that our customers acknowledged our value for money 
service, as reported in the Consumer Council for Water’s annual 
survey of customer opinion.
Dee Valley Water’s customers were the most satisfied (95%) of all 
the water companies in England and Wales with the response they 
received from contact with the company. Annual Report & Financial Statements 2016 Dee Valley Group plc
08 09
Financial Statements Your Local Water Company
A year of change and improvement  
for our people and teams
The past year has seen considerable beneficial change 
in Dee Valley Water to create a more customer focused, 
efficient, innovative and resilient company. We are 
now better placed to face the challenges of a changing 
business and regulatory landscape.
We have improved our structure, modernised and 
simplified our working practices and introduced a 
new vision and company values. This was successful 
because we fully involved our people and teams. 
The Board was pleased and proud that Dee Valley 
Water was one of the first companies in Wales to 
become a Living Wage Employer.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank all our 
people for the way they have risen to the challenge of 
implementing change through business modernisation 
and simplification and for the real step change in 
performance they have delivered throughout the year. 
We have created a stronger culture that will enhance 
our ability to outperform our regulatory targets in 
the next four years and beyond. Well trained staff 
who understand the company vision and their role in 
achieving it, combined with strong local knowledge and 
close links to our customers, will enable us to deliver 
the best possible service.
I believe we can look forward to the next four years 
with confidence. Dee Valley Water is well placed to 
be successful within Ofwat’s changed regulatory 
environment of totex and customer outcomes. We 
will continue to work proactively and positively with 
the Welsh Government and our other regulators and 
stakeholders to benefit the local area in which we live 
and work.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our people, 
suppliers and business partners for their expertise, 
energy and support in helping us to provide the best 
possible service to our customers. It is because of 
all their efforts that we are able to report pleasing 
improvements in our operating and service 
performance. 
I look forward to our continuing successes in the  
year ahead.
Ian Plenderleith 
Chief Executive
Our charges are the fourth lowest 
in England and Wales.
