 2 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2016
Security 
Complete security for you, your family and 
your business
Our mobile, desktop and server security 
suites provide complete protection from 
viruses, spyware and other malware, including 
ransomware.
Many users, particularly of mobile devices, are 
still unaware that a simple download of their 
favourite song, clicking on an email link and 
other, seemingly harmless, activity, can 
trigger an attack. Once in place, malware 
replicates, feeds on network bandwidth and 
causes systems to malfunction, in some 
cases bringing them to a complete halt.
Defenx Mobile Security Suite continues to be our 
best-selling product accounting for over 60% of 
2016 sales. 
Defenx Security Suite for PCs is also popular, 
typically in bundle with mobile apps, accounting 
for around 25% of 2016 sales.
Backup 
All your files in one place, secure  
in the Cloud
New to the Defenx portfolio in 2016, 
Memopal Cloud Backup combines automated 
backup and file synchronisation across 
multiple devices in 16 languages for all major 
operating systems. We also offer on-premise 
solutions for corporate partners like  
Türk Telekom. 
Built on Memopal’s proprietary Global File 
System (MGFS), we offer competitive cost 
per gigabyte storage while maintaining our 
margins. 
Channel partner interest has been strong and 
we anticipate strong growth during 2017. 
Integration of ‘zero knowledge’ 
authentication, advanced permissions and 
encryption through our partnership with 
BV-Tech will address corporate needs.
As we entered 2017 , our product portfolio, the 
reach of our channel partners and our delivery 
capacity were much enhanced on the year earlier.
Broad product portfolio
The Defenx proposition is to solve our end-users’ 
security needs on the devices they use, for their 
own protection and that of their data. 
Our products fit into three complimentary 
segments:
• Security – anti-malware software
• Backup – Cloud-based backup and 
synchronisation
• Protection – applications to monitor, manage 
and secure online activities
By developing a range of products within these 
three segments we now address the varied 
needs of consumer and corporate end-users.
B2B2C distribution strategy
A flexible marketing strategy, focused on 
white-label and profit-share arrangements with 
distributors, telecoms companies and hardware 
manufacturers, enables Defenx to compete with 
established industry incumbents.
At a glance
Founded in 2009, Defenx is a fast-growing and profitable 
cyber security company that offers a range of products for the 
mobile, PC and network security markets.
Defenx was admitted to trading on AIM in December 2015, 
acquired Memopal SRL in August 2016 (see page 16) and 
announced a strategic partnership with BV- T ech SpA in April 
2017 (see page 1 4), which has allowed Defenx to diversify its 
product offering, grow its customer base and expand its team.
Corporates Families Individuals
Who we protect Annual Report 2016 3 Defenx PLC
Company overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Protection
Protecting you and your loved ones’ 
safety and privacy
Our new protection segment evolved from 
channel partner feedback: their end-users 
were asking for solutions to help manage and 
protect their online lives.
End-users are interested to know what the 
apps on the smartphones are doing – Defenx 
Privacy Adviser tells them.
Once they know, they are keen to manage 
this activity and protect their privacy – 
Defenx Parental Control helps them.
Defenx SOS goes one step further, using the 
smartphone to send alerts in an emergency 
to a parent or guardian.
What we protect
Mobile Desktop Network
Key driver for improved cyber protection
Ransomware
The rapid growth of ransomware, including more sophisticated attacks on businesses, is a 
key driver for the adoption of improved cyber protection. With the acquisition of Memopal, 
Defenx now offers Mobile Security and Cloud Backup which, when used together, reduce 
the risk of infection and, in the event of a successful attack, ensure data is never lost, 
even on the move.
Ransomware is malware for ‘data kidnapping’, an exploit in which the attacker encrypts the 
victim’s data and demands payment for the decryption key. Ransomware spreads through 
e-mail attachments, infected programmes and compromised websites. A ransomware 
malware programme may also be called a cryptovirus, cryptotrojan or cryptoworm.
Attackers may use one of several different approaches to extort money from their victims:
• After a victim discovers he cannot open a file, he receives an email ransom note 
demanding a relatively small amount of money in exchange for a private key. The 
attacker often warns that if the ransom is not paid by a certain date, the private key 
will be destroyed and the data will be lost forever.
• The victim is duped into believing he is the subject of a police inquiry. After being 
informed that unlicensed software or illegal web content has been found on his 
computer, the victim is given instructions for how to pay an electronic fine.
• The malware surreptitiously encrypts the victim’s data but does nothing else. In this 
approach, the data kidnapper anticipates that the victim will look on the Internet for 
how to fix the problem and makes money by selling anti-ransomware software on 
legitimate websites.
To protect against data kidnapping, experts urge users to backup data on a regular basis. If an 
attack occurs, do not pay a ransom. Instead, wipe the disk and restore data from the backup.
Source: TechTarget.com
