 18 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive Officer's review
Growing with the market
Defenx has focused on the mobile security 
market since its outset. Today, Google’s 
Android has overtaken Microsoft’s Windows 
as the world’s most popular operating 
system. The number of mobile devices 
continues to grow towards an estimated 
5.7 billion by 2020. Internet activity 
increasingly revolves around mobile devices 
– email, messaging, web browsing, sharing 
photos and videos – particularly so in the 
secondary and emerging markets that we 
target. We therefore remain convinced that 
developing our product portfolio to 
securing mobile devices and protecting the 
data they contain is the right strategy.
The rapid growth of ransomware, including 
more sophisticated attacks on businesses, 
is a key driver for the adoption of improved 
cyber protection. With the acquisition of 
Memopal, Defenx now offers Mobile 
Security and Cloud Backup both reducing 
the risk of infection and, in the event of a 
successful attack, ensuring data is never 
lost, even on the move.
New channel partners
Our focus on mobile and a channel-friendly 
business model enabled us to add eight new 
channel partners in 2016, expanding our reach 
into retail, mobile operators and device 
manufacturers. Distribution continues to grow 
in 2017 with the launch of Defenx Mobile 
Security Suite on the Café Bazaar Playstore, an 
Iranian Android App marketplace, through one 
of our channel partners.
Our channel partners have not just 
increased in number, but also in the size of 
the target markets they address, driving our 
geographical expansion into key markets. 
The acquisition of Memopal brought Türk 
Telekom as a new channel partner. Their 
contract has been renewed and we are 
already working together to expand into 
their customer base and the wider regional 
market.
Andrea Stecconi / Chief Executive Officer
Defenx has successfully navigated its first full year on AIM. 
Our B2B2C strategy has again delivered significant revenue 
and profit growth. This growth comes through growing the 
team, growing our product portfolio and growing the 
number and quality of channel partners we now support. 
Y ear -on-year growth in revenue was 58% to €7 .09 million. 
Operating profits (before transaction costs) increased 88% 
to €1.84 million with strong cash generation. Earnings per 
share increased four - fold to €0.185. Annual Report 2016 19 Defenx PLC
Governance Financial statements Company overview Strategic report
Memopal acquisition completed
As announced on 2 August, we successfully 
completed the acquisition of 95.2% of 
Memopal, a cloud-based backup and 
synchronisation business based in Rome, Italy. 
Memopal’s team has significantly increased the 
Group’s internal development and customer 
support capacity that we would otherwise 
have needed to recruit during the year. The 
acquisition diversified and enhanced the 
Group’s product portfolio and added new 
channel partners, development and support 
staff.
Expanding the product portfolio
As we entered 2017 , our product portfolio 
was much enhanced since the IPO. In 
addition to Security (anti-malware end-
point protection), we have added Backup 
(cloud storage and sync to protect data and 
securely share it) and Protection (a suite of 
solutions to monitor and manage the online 
activity of family members and corporate 
staff). With these three product segments 
we now address the varied needs of 
consumer and corporate end-users.
Development work is now well advanced on 
our in-house PC and Network Security 
Suite, part of our strategy to 
comprehensively address the needs of 
corporate end-users. Together with the 
Defenx Mobile Device Management (MDM) 
portal and Defenx Encrypted Call & 
Messaging (ECM) Apps, we will soon have a 
compelling product portfolio with which to 
attack the corporate market.
We continue to explore profitable 
opportunities in the Io T domain. Our existing 
Security solution for NAS drives and the 
expertise from Memopal is being used to 
develop Security and Backup solutions for 
Smart TVs and set-top boxes.
Solid financial performance
Our B2B2C strategy again delivered 
significant revenue growth with full year 
revenues including the contribution from 
Memopal of €7 .09 million, a year-on-year 
increase of 58%. Thanks to strong cost 
control, we have also delivered a significant 
increase in operating profitability and 
earnings per share. Our financial 
performance is discussed in detail below in 
the Financial review.
In October, primarily to accelerate software 
development, we successfully sought 
shareholders’ approval for an equity placing 
and subscription raising €1.53 million net of 
fees. T ogether with strong operating cash 
flows of €2.32 million and the debt facilities 
secured following the acquisition of Memopal, 
we now have the funding to continue our 
mobile-led growth and expand into the 
lucrative corporate market.
Corporate and social responsibility
Much of our software is optimised for mobile 
devices running on battery power. We seek to 
maximise its efficiency by reducing the impact 
on processing capacity and memory. These 
products therefore have lower power 
consumption reducing the frequency of 
battery recharging: a small, but scalable 
contribution to the environment. In common 
with many businesses, our greatest impact on 
the environment comes from travel, notably air 
travel. We seek to use modern communications 
to limit air travel as far as possible. 
Current trading and outlook
Defenx is on track to launch new products, 
enter new markets and broaden its 
management team in 2017 . The Board of 
Defenx is confident that the Group will 
show continued growth in revenue and 
profit over the coming year in the ever-
exciting security software market. I firmly 
believe that our long-term partnership with 
BV-Tech, announced last month, will 
generate high-quality, recurring revenues in 
the medium-term.
I would like to personally thank our people 
and investors for their continued support 
and look forward to reporting further 
progress in 2017 .
Andrea Stecconi 
Chief Executive Officer
22 May 2017
