 Chairman’s statement
PAGE 4|   Chairman’s statement
The company
It has been an exceptionally busy year for the Company,
which floated on AIM in June 2005 successfully raising 
£3 million in a placing which was twice oversubscribed. 
The funds raised have enabled the Group to achieve
significant levels of organic growth during the period under
review as it positions itself as a leading provider of IVAs to
over indebted consumers. 
Strategy 
Significant opportunities exist in our target market to grow
the business organically. This is being underpinned by the
development of third party IVA referral relationships as well
as select acquisitions such as Unique Business Finance Ltd
which add complementary services.
This strategy will continue in the coming year as
Debtmatters consolidates its position as one of the leading
consumer IVA providers and continues to pursue value
adding acquisition opportunities.
Market
The market for our IVA services continues to grow.
Consumer debt in the UK is now running at almost £1.2
trillion, the number of IVAs registered with the DTI doubled
in 2005 and, based on figures available to date for 2006, is
expected to double again. Debtmatters has invested in new
premises, people and processes to ensure we have the
capacity to capitalise on this growth in our core market.
Management and staff
The expansion of our business has only been achieved
through the hard work and dedication of my fellow directors
as well as all our staff. I would like to take this opportunity
to thank them all for their commitment to date and their
ongoing support in the current year. 
I would also like to welcome Mark Prideaux to the Board,
who was recently appointed Group Finance Director
replacing Christine Jarvis who stood down in April 2006.
Together with the increase in the number of our insolvency
practitioners we now have the management and
infrastructure in place to take full advantage of the
significant opportunities that exist for our business.
Outlook
Debtmatters has delivered impressive growth during the
period under review and is well positioned to continue its
momentum. It is the Board's intention to employ additional
insolvency practitioners to underpin the strength of our core
business as well as to develop ancillary services through
select acquisitions. Significant opportunities exist for the
Group and I look forward to updating shareholders with
further progress in due course.
Noel Guilford BA FCA MSI
Non Executive Chairman
Noel Guilford
Non Executive Chairman
