 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 12
Chief Executive’s review
T rading overview
Bodycote delivered another strong performance in what was a 
difficult economic environment. Sales growth of £17 .1m included 
a contribution of £22.4m from acquisitions but was impacted by 
£19.6m of foreign exchange translation headwind. Notwithstanding 
the difficult trading environment Bodycote continued to 
demonstrate its pricing power and ability to improve the mix of 
business, resulting in headline margins
1
 increasing to 16.6%.
The Aerospace, Defence and Energy business took full advantage 
of the strong markets and delivered sales growth of 11 .5%, of 
which 4.2% came from acquisitions, with margins expanding 
to 26.7% (2011: 21 .9%). Progress was particularly pleasing in 
the Automotive and General Industrial segments. Even though 
revenues declined by 2.9%, notwithstanding adding 3.8% from 
acquisitions, margins remained constant at 13.3%, providing 
continued evidence of the improved resilience of Bodycote’s 
profitability.
Return on capital employed increased to 19.5% (2011: 16.9%) on 
the back of the higher level of profits and carefully managed net 
capital expenditure of £47 .7m, which was 0.9 times depreciation 
(2011: 0.9 times). Capital expenditure was lower than expected 
due primarily to longer than anticipated approval and regulatory 
processes. Capital expenditure was targeted at expansion of 
aerospace capacity and greenfield sites in emerging economies 
together with a focus on specific technologies such as Specialty 
Stainless Steel Processes (S
3
P), HIP Product Fabrication, Corr-i-Dur
®
 
and Low Pressure Carburising. 
Headline operating cash conversion was once again very strong at 
113% demonstrating the Group’s commitment to cash generation 
as a primary focus. Net debt finished the year at £34.2m after 
spending £84.7m on acquisitions during the year. On 18 February 
2013, the Group’s €125m revolving credit facility was refinanced to 
1 March 2018.
Strategic Progress
2012 marked a year of excellent strategic progress for Bodycote. 
Our initiatives aimed at improving market focus and increasing 
efficiencies through deployment of enhanced business processes 
all worked together to help drive profitable growth. Indeed the 
expansion of Group margins and growth in ROCE underscores the 
quality of earnings and resilience of the business.
While there are many examples of the successful deployment 
of Bodycote’s strategy, activities in Brazil and in Eastern Europe 
disappointed in 2012. In Brazil the currency rose strongly, disrupting 
Brazil’s position in the global supply chain. In Eastern Europe sales 
dropped, mainly due to manufacturers choosing to sustain their 
facilities in France and Germany, bearing the brunt of cutbacks in 
parallel plants in Eastern Europe.
In contrast, the growth in S
3
P was very pleasing, overcoming 
many of the capacity constraints that had hampered this business 
following its strong growth in 2011 . Late in the year capacity was 
increased in the HIP Product Fabrication business and the benefits 
should be seen in 2013.
A number of businesses were acquired in 2012. North America has 
been under-represented in Bodycote, with the business heavily 
weighted towards Western Europe. Acquisitions in North America 
were high on the priority list as a result.
In April the heat treatment division of Curtiss-Wright was acquired, 
adding eight sites to the Group’s footprint in North America. One 
major attraction of this business is its high degree of aerospace and 
energy work. Three of the acquired sites are located in the Wichita, 
Kansas aerospace hub, an important centre that previously did not 
have a Bodycote presence. The remaining sites dovetail very well 
into the pre-existing North American network.
“2012 has been another year of good 
progress. Improving business mix and 
the part-year benefit of acquisitions 
have enabled further improvements in 
performance and enhanced the Group’s 
geographic balance. ”
Stephen Harris l Group Chief Executive
1
  Headline margin is defined as headline operating profit as a proportion of revenue. Headline operating profit is reconciled on page 15. Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information
www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY 13
In October seven sites were acquired from Bluewater Thermal 
Processing LLC. Six of these sites constituted the business 
formerly known as Carolina Commercial Heat Treating, which has a 
strong competitive position in the so called ‘right to work’ states of 
the South Eastern USA. This region, spanning from North Carolina 
down to Georgia and across to Tennessee, has enjoyed higher than 
average growth in the USA having been the target for significant 
inward investment for some time. It is not only benefiting from the 
arrival of many new foreign companies, but also from businesses 
that are relocating away from the union dominated north. The 
fledgling aerospace supply chain that is being established in the 
region provides a further attraction for Bodycote.
Other acquisitions included a small business comprising three sites 
in Michigan and Indiana, which was acquired from a private owner 
on 31 December 2012. They bring to the Group some of the best 
practitioners of Low Pressure Carburising and sophisticated vacuum 
heat treating technology in the world and are a welcome addition to 
the Group.
As we enter 2013 all of the businesses acquired are performing in 
line with expectations.
Summary and outlook
2012 has been another year of good progress. Growth in our 
global Aerospace and Energy business outweighed the decline in 
Automotive and General Industrial markets in Europe. Improving 
business mix and the part-year benefit of acquisitions have enabled 
further improvements in performance and enhanced the Group’s 
geographic balance.
2013 has started slowly and we are mindful of the near term 
macroeconomic environment. Nevertheless, at this early stage in 
the year the Board expects modest progress in 2013.
Looking further ahead, the improvements made to the business in 
recent years give the Board confidence that Bodycote will continue 
to deliver good profits and cash through the business cycle.
 
S.C. Harris
Group Chief Executive
27 February 2013
