 Gross proﬁ t up
+95.8%
04
I am pleased to present the ﬁ rst full 
year’s set of results for Debts.co.uk 
plc as an AIM listed company for 
the year ended 31 July 2007. 
The Board previously set out its objectives 
regarding the IVA and debt solutions market 
place on its admission to the AIM market and 
continues to work towards these objectives.  The 
results for the year for the Group have been 
pleasing despite the publicised diffi culties across 
the whole of the industry.
As has been widely recorded, debt plays an 
ever-more important role in the UK’s economic 
landscape and the increased levels of borrowing is 
widely credited with sustaining the UK growth rate 
over recent years. However, against a background 
of the recent credit ‘squeeze’, fall in house prices 
and threat of recession in the US and potentially 
the UK, the availability of debt to individuals is 
widely expected to fall.
Chairman’s Statement
The availability 
of debt to 
individuals 
is widely 
expected to fall.
Bernard Asher
Chairman
Annual Report 2007
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   6 18/1/08   10:29:28 It is against this positive background that there 
has been an increasing level of competition in 
the market place since our Aim flotation in May 
2006, which has impacted on current trading 
performance and particular on the first half of 
2007/2008. This has been acutely felt in an increase 
in the cost of acquisition of IVA clients. However, we 
are now seeing a number of competitors ceasing 
their marketing activities where they have not 
reached a level of critical mass within their business 
models and as such there appears to be an easing 
of this situation which we believe will be felt in the 
second half of 2008.
A further factor which has affected the historic 
business model is the increase in creditor hostility 
to IVAs. The result of this has been a restriction on 
the number of debtors acceptable to lenders for 
an IVA which results in the debtor being declared 
bankrupt or entering into a debt management 
programme. This has again increased the cost of 
client acquisition as well as increasing processing 
costs due to necessary changes to our systems 
in order to take account of the variety of 
modifications requested by creditors. These have 
had a significant negative impact on the Group’s 
cash flows and future profitability.
Additionally, the recent consensus on fees charged 
by IVA providers involves a reduction in the level 
and timing of drawing fees which will impact 
both on the future profitability of the IVA business 
as well as the methodology previously adopted 
for accounting for Nominee fees (the initial costs) 
and supervisory fees (ongoing costs) as effectively 
there is now “one fee” for the entire case, the 
recoverability of which relies on whether the IVA 
continues for the full term of the arrangement.
Further, the expected increase in the level 
of second charge and mortgage broking 
commissions has been severely impacted by this 
summer’s sub-prime mortgage crisis in the US with a 
reduction in the number of panel lenders prepared 
to lend at reasonable rates falling from 8 to 2 in just 
a few weeks. 
On the other hand, the number of debt 
management programmes under management 
has increased considerably and continue to grow 
profitably and generally are an accepted solution 
by creditors.
The acquisition of Adie Financial Solutions Limited in 
June 2007 opened up further opportunities, giving 
the ability to provide a full range of debt solutions 
within Scotland. The Scottish market remains largely 
unaffected by the creditors situation in England & 
Wales and we are looking to increase our presence 
in this market place.
The Group continues to look for complementary 
opportunities to grow our client base through 
acquisition and believe that this will provide 
significant opportunities for value growth in  
the coming months and years as the industry 
further consolidates.
These changes in the IVA market and the 
associated ongoing industry wide negotiations 
with creditors are providing a shape for the future 
and the Group is adapting well to these changes, 
details of which have been set out in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s report.
Meanwhile, the Board continually looks to 
improve systems and controls to the optimum 
operational levels and where appropriate to 
ensure that the Group meets all current and future 
regulatory requirements.
Bernard Asher 
Chairman 
18 January 2008
05
Chairman’s Statement
continued
Annual Report 2007
DB2190 – front AW08.indd   7 18/1/08   10:29:29
