 6 Defenx PLC Annual Report 2016
Chairman's statement
A year of product delivery
Much of 2016 was focused on 
strengthening Defenx’s endpoint security 
products, which have long been our core 
offering. As part of our strategy to offer 
‘360-degree’ solutions that protect the 
everyday digital life of our individual, family 
and SME end-users, Defenx also launched 
during 2016 products for personal privacy, 
safety and parental control.
We have also added products to address 
progressively larger customers – from our 
existing, largely, consumer base to SMEs 
and corporates in the near future. We 
expect that our end-point network security, 
mobile device management and corporate 
cloud storage solutions will support and 
de-risk our continued revenue growth.
The long-term strategic partnership 
announced today with BV-Tech SpA 
(BV-Tech), a leading independent corporate 
IT and cyber security solutions provider in 
Italy, is entirely consistent with this 
strategy. The Board firmly believes this will 
strengthen both our product portfolio and 
reach into the corporate market. We look 
forward to working together with the wider 
BV-Tech team.
Board and management
Since our AIM admission, we have doubled 
our headcount to add further quality and 
bandwidth at all levels. Our development 
team has been strongly reinforced with the 
acquisition of Memopal SRL (Memopal). We 
now maintain and support all our products 
exclusively with internal resources, 
outsourcing key aspects of new product 
development to trusted external partners. 
The Board was sad to say goodbye to  
Guido Branca, Chief Operating Officer, 
during the summer. We remain grateful for 
his significant contribution since joining 
Defenx in 2014, most notably establishing 
the parent company in the UK, the 
subsequent private placing and the 
successful IPO in 2015. 
Anthony Reeves / Chairman
I am pleased to report that, in our first full year on AIM, 
we have delivered significant revenue and profit growth, 
exceeding the Board’s expectations set at the start of 
the year. The year was marked by new challenges, new 
products, new channel partners and new people with 
our first acquisition in August 2016 of Memopal. Our 
first year on AIM has been transformational. Annual Report 2016 7 Defenx PLC
Governance Financial statements Company overview Strategic report
The appointment of Gianluca Granero as 
Group Development Director (non Board) 
follows the integration of Memopal into the 
Group. Gianluca’s broad-ranging technical 
and commercial experience has provided 
much needed management bandwidth and 
helped to accelerate business development.
Early in 2017 , Paolo Cellini was appointed as 
a strategic adviser to the Board. Paolo 
brings extensive experience and a track 
record of supporting growing companies 
within and beyond Italy and is already 
helping Defenx in its product portfolio and 
marketing strategy.
BV-Tech have the right to nominate two 
Directors, the first of whom, Franco 
Francione, was appointed today. His 
background is set out on page 27 .
The Board continues the search for the 
right senior sales executive to help drive 
the Group’s expansion.
Robust prospects
Following the €1.53 million placing and 
subscription last October, in which the 
Board was pleased to see participation by 
the Executive Directors, and last month's 
subscription by BV-Tech, Defenx is well 
positioned to deliver continued profitable 
growth in 2017 .
As a high growth and profitable security 
solutions group, I am confident that Defenx 
will have another exciting year and deliver 
positive returns for shareholders.
The Board looks forward to meeting 
shareholders at the AGM on Tuesday  
27 June 2017 , in accordance with the  
Notice of AGM on pages 69 and 70.
Anthony Reeves
Chairman
22 May 2017
Timeline 
•  Strategic partnership with BV-Tech announced 
raising €1.15 million
• Acquisition of encrypted voice and message 
software from BV-Tech 
•  Eight new channel partners secured
•  Placing to raise €1.53 million
•  Acquisition of Memopal SRL
•  Defenx Privacy Adviser/SOS apps launched
•  Defenx Mobile Security Suite launched for 
Windows 10 phone
•  AIM IPO raising €2.1 million after expenses
• Defenx Mobile Security Suite launched for iOS
•  Defenx PLC incorporated
•  Private placing raising €1.3 million after 
expenses
•  Mobile Security Suite for Android IP bought out 
from developer
•  Generated first profit on sales of €1.1 million
• Defenx Mobile Sucrity Suite launched for Android
•  Defenx SA launched in Switzerland
• Defenx Security Suite launched for Windows
'17
'16
'15
'13
'14
'12
'09
