 23065.02     11 March 2014 1:46 PM     Design Shell
Chairman’s statement
Overview
Against the backdrop of a soft economic environment, particularly 
in Europe, I am pleased to report that Bodycote made further 
progress in 2013. The ongoing execution of the Group’s strategy to 
direct the mix of sales towards higher added-value work linked to 
careful management of costs has enabled us once again to improve 
our profitability and return on investment. Going forward we will 
continue to seek out opportunities to expand the Group through 
a combination of organic growth initiatives in new markets and 
technologies, investment in capability in emerging markets and 
acquisition of high quality businesses at reasonable prices.
Headline earnings per share at 41 .2p grew by 10%, headline 
operating margins exceeded 17% and operating profit was fully 
backed by positive cash generation. As a result I am very pleased  
to report a strong net cash position of £15m at 31 December 2013. 
The return on capital employed increased to 19.9%.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final ordinary dividend of 9.1p, an increase 
of 10%, which will be paid on 2 May 2014 subject to shareholder 
approval at the AGM. This brings the total ordinary dividend for 
2013 to 13.5p (2012: 12.3p) costing £25.7m, which is a year-on-year 
increase of 10%. The Board is also recommending a supplemental 
distribution, by way of a special dividend, amounting to 10.0p per 
share costing £19.1m. 
Governance
As Chairman, one of my primary responsibilities is to ensure 
that the Group operates to the highest standards in all aspects 
of governance and risk management. Our aim within Bodycote 
is to manage a growing business effectively, while ensuring 
that proper operating procedures and internal controls are 
maintained at all times in each of the 26 countries where we 
operate. Transparency is central to this objective and you will find 
more detail about our approach and progress over the last year 
in the Corporate Governance section starting on page 32. The 
Remuneration Committee report is in accordance with the new 
reporting requirements of the large and medium sized companies 
regulations. These came into force in October 2013.
“Bodycote has once again delivered 
value in terms of total shareholder 
return and remains in a strong 
financial position. ”
A.M. Thomson l Chairman
02 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2013 23065.02     11 March 2014 1:46 PM     Design Shell
During the year I met a number of Bodycote’s major shareholders 
and received positive feedback from them on their views of the 
Group. Going forward I will maintain this valuable dialogue with 
our shareholders and look forward to meeting increasing numbers 
of you at this year’s AGM, when there will be an opportunity to 
discuss the Group’s business and prospects.
People
The people who work for the Company are undoubtedly our key 
asset and I am certain that the existing opportunities for long-
term growth will ensure that our employees find Bodycote a place 
where they will continue to enjoy rewarding careers. On behalf 
of the Board I congratulate them all for delivering another year of 
successful trading and excellent financial performance.
Summary
Bodycote has once again delivered value in terms of total 
shareholder return and remains in a strong financial position.
I believe that the Group will continue to deliver positive returns in 
the years ahead. Underpinned by the ongoing focus upon excellent 
customer service, strong cash management and the quality of our 
global workforce, I look forward to the future with confidence.
A.M. Thomson 
Chairman 
27 February 2014
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
03 www.bodycote.com Stock code: BOY
