 14
Devro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
After a three-year 
transformation period,  
in 2016 we achieved a 
major milestone with the 
completion, as planned,  
of our two capital 
investment projects  
in the USA and China. 
Chairman’s Statement
Global demand for collagen casings and 
related products grew by approximately 
4% in 2016. Regional variations led to a 
range of opportunities and challenges 
and the higher levels of capacity in  
the market provided customers with  
a range of options of varying quality  
and functionality.
Devro’s reported revenues were 4.7% 
above the prior year. This includes 
exchange rate movements, which were 
particularly beneficial in the second half. 
As previously guided, Devro’s revenues 
in constant currency declined 6.9% in 
the year. Volumes in Latin America, 
Continental Europe, Russia and China 
reduced, although China returned to 
year-on-year growth in the final quarter. 
The performance in these areas was 
partially offset by increased volumes, 
and stable or increasing local currency 
average sales prices, in Japan, South 
East Asia and the UK & Ireland.
After a three-year transformation period 
we achieved a major milestone in 2016 
with the completion, as planned, of our 
two capital investment projects in the 
USA and China. These new plants are 
now an integral part of our global 
manufacturing footprint. 
In our November 2016 trading update 
we highlighted that our anticipated  
sales volumes for 2017 will result in  
an under-utilisation of available global 
capacity. As a consequence the Board 
decided to accelerate and implement 
more extensively the next stage of the 
group’s strategic development. This 
programme, known as Devro 100, 
focuses on growing revenue through 
improving our sales capabilities, further 
improving manufacturing efficiencies to 
reduce unit costs and introducing the next 
generation of differentiated products. 
To underpin the Devro 100 programme, 
a significant change in the group’s 
organisation structure was implemented  
in the fourth quarter, under which we 
moved from local sales and manufacturing 
responsibilities to three sales-focused 
commercial regions, supported by 
global business development and global 
supply chain operations. The Board 
believes this will result in a strong focus 
on areas of future profit growth,  
faster development of new products 
and greater use of local operational 
expertise for the benefit of Devro 
worldwide by sharing best practices.
Given the extensive nature of this 
programme there will be a significant 
level of incremental costs during 2017 
and 2018 which will be reported 
separately as exceptional items.
Financial highlights
Underlying operating profit increased 
14% to £38.1 million (2015: £33.3 million), 
as it benefited from currency 
movements and lower input prices, 
which more than offset the effects  
of lower sales volumes.
After including exceptional items, 
operating profit was £15.4 million  
(2015: £19.2 million). A breakdown  
of exceptional items, together with a 
more detailed explanation of the group’s 
financial performance, is set out in the 
Financial Review on pages 18 to 23.
Board 
Rutger Helbing joined the Board in  
April 2016 as Group Finance Director 
following Simon Webb’s retirement  
in March.
In December, Malcolm Swift agreed  
to join our Board as a Non-Executive 
Director with effect from 26 April 2017. 
At this time, Paul Neep will stand down 
after 12 years as a Non-Executive 
Director: I am extremely grateful  
for his significant contribution.
Employees
The expertise, experience and 
commitment of so many people who 
work in Devro are key to the future 
success of the business. 2016 was a 
demanding year for all colleagues as  
we progressed with the transformation 
of the business. On behalf of the Board,  
I thank all employees for their contribution.
I am particularly impressed by the  
way that new employees, in China  
and elsewhere, have integrated and 
strengthened our capabilities in  
many areas. 15
Devro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report Strategic Report
Dividend
The Board is proposing to maintain the 
final dividend at 6.1p per share (2015: 
6.1p) bringing the total for the year to 
8.8p per share (2015: 8.8p). Subject to 
shareholder approval at the Annual 
General Meeting in April, the dividend  
will be paid on 12 May 2017, to those 
shareholders on the register at  
31 March 2017.
Return on investments
Having completed the transformation  
of our global manufacturing footprint, 
we are now focused on the need to 
deliver a return on our investments at 
the same time as generating strong  
cash flow for the reduction of debt.  
The actions planned under the Devro 
100 programme will accelerate these 
returns. However we do recognise that 
the further exceptional items in 2017 and 
2018 represent an additional investment 
from our investors. We are convinced 
that, with the quality of our new 
production facilities and strengthened 
senior management capability across 
the group, combined with a new global 
organisation structure, Devro is well-
positioned to grow sales and reduce 
costs over the coming years. Our 
markets are dynamic and continue  
to grow, providing good opportunities  
for Devro to create long-term value  
for our shareholders.
Gerard Hoetmer
Chairman
