 16
Devro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Chief Executive’s Review
Following the significant capital 
investments we have made in recent 
years, our objective is to use our high-
technology assets to supply a growing 
global market with differentiated quality 
products, whilst reducing costs to levels 
substantially lower than has historically 
been possible with legacy facilities.
Markets overview
Devro supplies collagen casings, gel  
and film to over 100 countries worldwide. 
Current estimates are that this market  
is growing by 2-4% per annum. After a 
period of contraction in China in 2015, 
demand in this market returned to 
growth in 2016.
Markets have become increasingly 
competitive and customers are ever 
more demanding. Our markets are 
dynamic, presenting real opportunities 
for growth and development.
Strategy
Devro’s three-part strategy focuses  
on revenue growth, manufacturing 
efficiency and product differentiation. 
The Devro 100 programme will 
accelerate progress across all three 
elements, as outlined below.
Revenue growth
Reported revenue increased 4.7%, 
strongly impacted by movements in 
exchange rates, particularly during  
the second half. Revenue in constant 
currency reduced 6.9%, reflecting  
lower sales volumes. 
Over 80% of the group’s sales come 
from edible collagen casings, for which 
total volumes declined 8.2% compared 
to prior year. This was due to a series of 
region-specific factors and actions have 
been taken to ensure a return to growth 
during 2017 and 2018. 
Volumes in the UK & Ireland increased 
by 1.3% accompanied by continued 
progress in pricing. There have been 
some significant transfers of volume 
between UK sausage manufacturers 
during 2016, which has enabled Devro  
to increase its market share.
In Continental Europe, volumes declined 
7.5% in an environment of increased 
competition over recent years. In order 
to compete more effectively in this 
market we are in the process of 
significantly upgrading our sales 
capabilities, as part of the Devro 100 
programme. Volumes in Germany grew 
2.1% as a result of working closely with 
customers to address their needs 
through our extensive product portfolio.
Volumes in Russia and surrounding 
markets were down 13.0% for the year 
reflecting the extremely competitive 
nature of the market in Russia that has 
been further exacerbated by the weak 
rouble. Our sales run-rate improved in 
the second half following the launch  
of a new product offering in Russia  
that was specifically developed to  
meet these market conditions. Other 
markets in the region, including Ukraine, 
Kazakhstan and Belarus, maintained 
similar volumes to prior year.
North America volumes declined 4.8% 
over the year, with most of the decline in 
the final quarter, particularly as one key 
account reduced inventories to manage 
working capital. We expect our volumes 
in this market to return to growth in 2017.
Our Latin America business was 
impacted by the change in sourcing 
away from the old USA plant, as part  
of the transformation of our global 
manufacturing operations. Despite 
extensive development and testing, 
when manufactured on a commercial 
scale it was found that the redesigned 
products were not able to meet 
customer needs, given their unique  
and demanding applications, resulting  
in a 33.5% volume reduction. Whilst 
many technical challenges have now 
been resolved, the process of scaling up 
testing and requalifying products will 
take time and we do not expect a major 
recovery in Latin America volumes until 
2018. This remains a key area of focus 
for the group.
Volume growth remained strong in 
Japan (+4.5%), where Devro casings 
have been used to develop a successful 
application in the confectionery market, 
sales of which have continued to 
Overall demand remains 
strong and we continue  
to see many attractive 
opportunities to grow  
the business. 17
Devro plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report Strategic Report
demand efficiently. This investment has 
been completed and all operations are 
now managed by the new global supply 
chain function. 
As the new China plant started up in the 
first half, 160 new colleagues joined the 
business in Nantong and, through the 
training and commissioning process, 
rapidly developed an impressive 
capability to manufacture high quality 
products. The plant is approved for 
sales inside China and for exports, has 
been accredited for FS22000 (the 
global food safety standard) and has 
recently achieved full Halal certification.
In the US, as well as bringing the new 
plant into operation, the closure of the 
old plant was completed at the end  
of the first half with the number of 
employees reduced by 200.
Devro 100 – Improving manufacturing 
efficiency
With the global manufacturing  
footprint now complete, the Devro  
100 programme will focus efforts  
on delivering significant further cost 
savings to improve the unit cost of 
production. The establishment of the 
global supply chain function will support 
this improvement through identifying 
and applying best practice across the 
global operations to achieve better 
efficiency and cost savings. 
As the new plants have been completed, 
engineering teams have returned to 
regular operations, enabling them to 
support this programme. In addition  
we are engaging external support, 
alongside our experienced employees,  
to assist with improving our existing 
processes through external benchmarking. 
Product differentiation
Effective research and development  
is key to product differentiation. An 
experienced group research team was 
established in 2015, which actively 
collaborates with external research 
projects to extend knowledge and 
identify opportunities. These capabilities 
were further enhanced through the 
acquisition of Devro B.V., which had  
built a strong technical skills base in 
co-extrusion gel.
Devro 100 – Next generation  
of differentiated products
The third element of Devro 100 is  
the development of next generation 
products, which will deliver casings 
offering a step-change in attributes and 
performance. During 2016 significant 
progress was made on this development 
and in 2017 we plan to commence the 
launch of some of these new products  
in certain regions, reflecting the specific 
requirements of these markets.
Outlook
Overall demand remains strong and  
we continue to see many attractive 
opportunities to grow the business.  
In 2017, we will focus on increasing 
revenue to regain market share, 
achieving cost savings across our global 
operations and commencing the launch 
of new, differentiated products, as part 
of the Devro 100 programme. The 
further exceptional costs of this 
programme are expected to be between 
£10-12 million over the next two years, 
plus capital investments of between 
£7-8 million, with expected benefits  
of between £13-16 million per annum  
by 2019. Over this period there will also  
be a focus on reducing net debt levels.
Combined with the upgraded global 
manufacturing asset base, we are 
confident this will deliver long-term 
growth.
Safety
It was a tragedy for all colleagues that 
there was a fatal accident at our Czech 
plant on 30 March 2016, involving a 
forklift truck. We co-operated closely 
with the relevant authorities in the 
investigation process and launched  
our own in-depth internal investigations 
to learn from this distressing incident. 
For further information on our safety 
management see pages 30 to 31.
Peter Page
Chief Executive
expand. Volumes in South East Asia 
increased 5.9%, principally due to a 
strong recovery in Korea related to sales 
growth in the food service sector and a 
new product developed to meet local 
requirements. Volumes in Australia 
declined 7.8%, including the impact  
of one significant customer who moved 
to dual sourcing.
Devro’s volumes in China for the year  
as a whole were 31.4% below prior year, 
but were strong in the final quarter as 
volumes came on-stream from the new 
plant in Nantong. In 2016 there was an 
oversupply of product at the lower  
end of the market, which resulted  
in significant price-led promotional 
activity. Devro decided not to 
participate in this activity, particularly 
given the higher costs of importing 
products before the new plant became 
operational. Devro is now in a period  
of testing products from the new plant 
with existing and potential customers. 
The new casings are performing well, 
which is reflected in the return to 
year-on-year sales growth in the  
final quarter.
Total volumes of gel sold across the 
group increased over 30% through a 
combination of further growth in the  
US, as our existing customers increased 
their market share, and new volumes in 
Europe, as a result of the acquisition of 
Devro B.V. in 2015 plus the development 
of an additional key account.
Devro 100 – Revenue growth
A key element of the Devro 100 
programme is to significantly upgrade 
our sales capabilities. An extensive, 
structured plan is being implemented, 
with particular focus on ‘key account 
management’ processes. Several new 
senior sales managers joined the 
business, strengthening our presence  
in key markets. This programme has 
progressed well in 2016 and will 
continue during 2017. 
Manufacturing efficiency
Over the past three years, the business 
has undergone a significant programme 
of investment and restructuring, to 
ensure that we have modern production 
capacity capable of supplying future 
