 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
4
Underlying trading results for the year were broadly in line
with expectations. Revenue at BRC, the UK’s leading
supplier of steel reinforcement for concrete construction,
increased 18% in response to strong construction
markets, particularly in the first half of the year . 
As expected, given the low level of new model
programmes at its major customers, revenue at Stadco,
the UK’s largest supplier of body-in-white pressings and
sub-assemblies to automotive OEM’s, was 10% lower
against the previous year; its overall results were however
slightly better than we anticipated at the half year, due to
the resolution of a potential one-off bad debt problem.
Revenue from continuing operations increased by 5% to
£322.9 million (2006: £307.0 million). Operating profit from
continuing operations, before amortisation and exceptional
items, decreased by 4% to £14.3 million (2006: £14.9
million). Operating profit from continuing operations
increased by 59% to £14.0 million (2006: £8.8 million). 
Net cash flow generated from operations was £11.1
million (2006: £16.8 million). Group net borrowings
increased by £16.0 million in the year to £64.1 million at
31 December 2007, mainly reflecting further investment in
BRC’s capacity and efficiency, financing costs and a 
catch-up in German tax payments. Borrowings in 2008 are
expected to increase owing to changes in the financing
arrangements for steel purchases in BRC. 
Dividends
Having considered the cash absorbed by the Group 
in 2007, together with the need to reduce debt and
strengthen the balance sheet, the Board is not
recommending the payment of a final dividend.  
Accounting misstatement
Although trading results were broadly in line with
expectations, the outcome for the year was overshadowed by
the accounting misstatement in one of our BRC operations,
which we brought to shareholders’ attention in early
September . The Board and our senior management have
taken firm action to deal with the issues arising from this
misstatement. All of the figures in this statement fully reflect
the adjustments required to correct this misstatement.
People
Rod Holdsworth was appointed Interim Group Finance
Director on 1 December 2007. Rod has had wide experience
at board level in the engineering and construction sectors,
most recently as Finance Director of Morrison plc where he
assisted in its successful turnaround. Rod, who is not a
statutory director of Acertec, replaced David Roache who
left the Board on 31 December 2007. 
Outlook
As leaders in their fields, BRC and Stadco are well placed
to benefit from the opportunities and to face the challenges
in their markets. This year should see BRC make continued
progress, despite concerns relating to the effect of dramatic
increases in the price of steel at the start of the year .
Meanwhile, Stadco is responding to high levels of new project
opportunities which should lead to an improvement in 2009.
Overall, we expect that Acertec’s underlying performance
in 2008 will be similar to that in 2007.
James Kerr-Muir
Chairman
31 March 2008
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
5
As leaders in their fields
BRC and Stadco are well
placed to benefit from the
opportunities and to face
the challenges that their
markets bring.
