 ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
6
Acertec’s revenue from continuing operations increased by
5% to £322.9 million (2006: £307.0 million). Operating
profit from continuing operations, before amortisation and
exceptional items decreased by 4% to £14.3 million (2006:
£14.9 million). Operating profit from continuing operations
increased by 59% to £14.0 million (2006: £8.8 million).
BRC Division
BRC is engaged in the design, distribution, marketing and
manufacture of a wide range of steel reinforcement and
related products for the construction industry. The division
operates in three sectors: Reinforcement and Specialty
Products in the UK and Ireland; and Reinforcement in
Singapore. 
Revenue increased by 18% to £196.7 million (2006: £166.2
million) and operating profit, excluding amortisation and
exceptionals, increased by 8% to £8.0 million (2006: £7.4
million). Operating profit increased by 93% to £8.7 million
(2006: £4.5 million). The revenue growth reflected both
strong construction markets and a good sales performance
in most of BRC’s operations. Approximately 8% of sales
growth was a consequence of higher steel prices. Margins
were constrained by competitive pressures, particularly in
the latter part of the year.
BRC’s principal business risks are in matching the supply
and price of steel with the demands of its customer base in
the construction industry. Reinforcing steel is a global
commodity and market conditions are set internationally,
not in the UK. Although construction demand in the UK has
enjoyed several years of steady growth, it is historically a
cyclical business, and is particularly exposed to changes in
the credit environment and to levels of government
expenditure, especially in infrastructure development.
As we indicated in January, towards the end of 2007 we
did see some softening in the housing and commercial
(office/retail/warehousing) sectors in the UK. Underlying
demand however remained firm in the infrastructure
sectors, particularly in transport (rail and road), power
generation (oil, gas and windpower), sports facilities
(Olympics, football stadia), and in the public sector
(hospitals, schools). 
An important part of BRC’s strategy is to convert
commodity reinforcement products into engineered,
added-value reinforcement solutions for its customers.
Good progress was made in this area in 2007, with a
doubling in financial contribution compared with 2006.
The early part of 2008 has seen exceptional increases in
the price of steel worldwide, driven by high demand in
Asia (especially China) and in the developing world. 
The price of reinforcing steel has risen by over 50% since
November 2007; BRC is working to manage the impact of
these increases on the supply chain and on demand.
After a strong first half of 2007, BRC’s Specialty Products
operations saw a mixed second half of the year. Whilst the
Company’s geotechnical products enjoyed strong demand,
some of our other product sectors, particularly those,
such as masonry reinforcement, which are more closely
related to housing, saw a reduction in demand and more
competitive market conditions which have persisted in the
early part of 2008. A new managing director has been
appointed to this business in early 2008, who will drive the
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
7
next phase of development in our Specialty Products
activities.
BRC’s joint venture in Ireland, BRC McMahon, enjoyed
good sales growth following the acquisition of Buchanan
Wire Products in 2006. However, the construction market
in the Republic of Ireland, after several years of strong
growth, weakened in 2007, especially in the second half of
the year and particularly in the housing sector. This gave
rise to an increasingly competitive market environment
and the company’s margins were reduced compared with
2006. This well managed business is expected to continue
to perform well in today’s difficult market.
BRC Asia made further progress in widening its product
range to provide a full range of reinforcement solutions to
the construction industry in Singapore. For the first time,
its sales of rebar based products, including heavy
prefabricated structures, exceeded the sales of its
traditional mesh products. After a weak start to the year,
when the market was affected by shortages of sand and
aggregates, the second half of the year was strong,
underpinned by the increasingly buoyant construction
industry in Singapore. BRC’s joint venture operation in
China showed good sales growth, but margins were thin.
We continue to evaluate the strategic options for our
investment in BRC Asia.
Although the impact of steel price increases and the
turmoil in financial markets are a concern, BRC expects to
make progress in 2008, based on its strong order book
and on good underlying demand in key infrastructure
sectors. The capital expenditure programme, which
extended through 2006 and 2007, has now largely been
completed, leaving BRC well placed to meet its objectives
over the next three years and to continue to develop a
better mix of higher margin, engineered products.
Stadco Division
Stadco is the UK’s largest supplier of body-in-white
pressings and sub-assemblies to automotive OEMs, and is
also a significant supplier of sub-assemblies in Germany.
Pressings and sub-assemblies are the components which,
when they are finally welded together by the OEM, make
up a complete unpainted car body.
Revenue in 2007 decreased by 10% to £126.2 million
(2006: £140.8 million), and operating profit, excluding
amortisation and exceptional items, decreased by 15% to
£9.3 million (2006: £11.0 million). Operating profit
decreased by 16% to £9.2 million (2006: £10.9 million).
Sales levels reflected an expected and substantial reduction
in revenues from engineering and tooling projects,
associated with a low level of new model programmes at
Stadco’s key customers; lower unit volumes on some
vehicle models that were entering a more mature phase
of their life cycle; and a reduced per-vehicle content on
the new BMW Mini. Margins on new work reflected and
will this year continue to reflect the tough competitive
environment in the UK as the body-in-white sector adjusts
to the market conditions following the demise of MG Rover .
In the face of these factors we achieved substantial further
cost reductions following the restructuring of Stadco’s 
UK operations, which included the closure of two factories
in 2006.
An important part of BRC’s strategy is to
convert commodity reinforcement products
into engineered, added-value reinforcement
solutions for its customers. Good progress
was made in this area in 2007, with a doubling
in financial contribution compared with 2006. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
8
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Stadco’s operation in Germany showed improved results in
2007, on the back of increased efficiency and other
improvements.
Stadco’s principal business risks are in the level of
demand for its products and in the level of sales revenue.
It is a fixed asset intensive business and consequently
operational gearing is high. Demand is dependent upon
the success of its key OEM customers and of the vehicle
platforms in which it is involved. In the medium and longer
term, Stadco is dependent upon the BIW outsourcing
policies of the major vehicle OEMs and upon its ability to
win new business from both existing and new customers.
Whilst the recently announced sale by Ford of its Jaguar
Land Rover business has caused uncertainty in the market,
Stadco believes that this sale will have a positive impact on
future business prospects in both the short and longer term.
Stadco’s major development in St. Petersburg, Russia,
which is now being undertaken as a 50/50 joint venture
with Gestamp Automocion SL (“Gestamp”), is making good
progress. The construction phase is underway, with
machinery installation on course for the summer months.
The factory is expected to be completed and tested by the
end of the year, ready for production to start at the
beginning of 2009. Initial funding of the investment is
being provided by Gestamp.
In 2008, Stadco expects to see some growth in revenue,
helped by two new model launches – in particular, the
Ford Kuga in Germany which has been well received by
the market, and also the Jaguar XF in the UK, where
Stadco has won modest per-vehicle content. Margins,
however, will continue to be under pressure.
I am pleased to report that requests for quotations for
programmes to supply parts on new vehicles and for
projects which require high levels of programme
management and engineering support are running at their
highest level for three years. These enquiries include
projects with customers not previously supplied by 
Stadco. Increased demand for aluminium panels, 
driven by weight reduction programmes, is expected to
benefit Stadco which has particular expertise in this
sector and is by far the largest independent supplier in
the UK.
Stadco will continue to concentrate on providing a full
range of body-in-white services to its automotive
customers. These services include the manufacture of
pressings and sub-assemblies, the design and
procurement of tooling, and whole body design. Stadco
will continue to seek opportunities to provide these
services in territories outside its traditional UK base.
Outlook
Although 2007 has been a difficult year, we are moving
into 2008 with an improving control environment and with
new senior management in certain key positions. 
Current trading in BRC is dominated by the exceptional
increase in the price of steel in world markets. Its effect
on the supply chain and on demand is a concern. However
BRC should make progress in 2008, based on its strong
order book and on good underlying demand in key
infrastructure sectors. Sales at Stadco have started the
year well, although margins continue to be under pressure.
Overall, we expect that Acertec’s underlying performance
in 2008 will be similar to that in 2007, with growth at BRC
being offset at Stadco, although there will be one-off costs
relating to the refinancing of the Group’s credit facilities.
In the medium term, Stadco expects to generate new
business from the current flow of prospects and for 
Russia to contribute operating profits from 2009. BRC will
benefit from some significant new contract wins for 2008
and should continue to benefit from the pipeline of major
projects in its core markets. ACERTEC PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007
9
Stadco is the UK’s leading
supplier of body-in-white
(BIW) pressings and sub-
assemblies to automotive
OEMs, and is also a significant
supplier of sub-assemblies in
Germany.
