 20
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Consistent
outperformance
Overview
Our strong sales growth was sustained 
throughout the year, as many of our 
strategic initiatives continued to deliver 
ahead of our expectations within a 
healthy furniture market environment. 
This performance enabled us to deliver 
profit before tax at the upper end 
of market expectations despite the 
increased operating costs arising from 
our investment for the future in the 
development of Dwell, Sofa Workshop 
and DFS internationally. The business 
also remains highly cash generative, 
enabling us to fund our investments in 
store openings and refurbishments, and 
an accelerated programme of retail space 
conversion, while reducing gearing and 
increasing returns to our shareholders.
Growth strategy update
Broadening our appeal to customers
We remain committed to “creating and 
making sofas that every home loves and 
can afford”, and have focused on extending 
our appeal to an even broader range of 
customers so as to consolidate our position 
as the UK market leader in upholstered 
furniture across all customer segments.
Our ranges of Exclusive Brands have 
performed well ahead of our expectations, 
with a 35% increase in total sales 
orders over the year as a whole. 
Highlights included the introduction 
of a number of new models under 
the House Beautiful brand, and the 
continued outstanding success of the 
French Connection Zinc range. Our 
close supplier relationships and vertical 
integration insights have enabled us to 
introduce a seven-day express delivery 
option across the Zinc sofa range. 
We extended our partnership agreements 
with French Connection, House Beautiful 
and Country Living during the year, and are 
also achieving encouraging results from the 
sale of sofas from our own Sofa Workshop 
Dillon and Ellie ranges through DFS stores.
“It is naturally pleasing to again report record 
results that demonstrate the robustness of our 
business model, the effectiveness of our growth 
strategy and the excellence of our products and 
our people. Together these unique assets give 
DFS the proven ability to achieve consistent 
outperformance of the retail furniture market over 
the long term.” 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   20 12/10/2016   18:06 21
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
21
UK and Republic of Ireland  
DFS store roll-out
Our well-established programme of adding 
new 10-15,000 sq. ft. DFS stores at the rate 
of three to five per annum has continued to 
plan, with the successful opening of three 
new stores at Christchurch and Kettering 
in the UK and Limerick in the Republic 
of Ireland. Our established customer 
catchment area model, leveraging our 
comprehensive delivery postcode data, 
enables us to make a highly accurate 
assessment of new store opportunities to 
target new stores likely to deliver substantial 
incremental EBITDA, and achieve rapid 
payback within two years. Progress in 
opening new stores in the 2017 financial 
year is well advanced with two new stores 
opened in Truro and Salisbury, and further 
openings planned in the next six months.
Following the success of our initial trial of 
a smaller 2,500 sq. ft. store last year in the 
Westfield shopping centre in Stratford, 
London, we opened a further small store 
in Bromley in April 2016 and will shortly 
open a third store in this format in Crawley, 
extending the trial outside the M25. The 
development of this smaller concept is 
made possible by our market-leading 
website and innovative “Swoosh” furniture 
visualisation technology, allowing us to 
demonstrate the comfort of our products 
to customers with just one unit from each 
range in store, while using large screens 
to show our complete range of sizes, 
types, coverings and colour options. 
International expansion
We continue to make progress in The 
Netherlands, where we opened a 
second store in Rotterdam’s Alexandrium 
shopping mall and retail park in September 
2015. At 10,000 sq. ft. this store is 
smaller than our initial trial opening in 
Cruquius and is achieving comparable 
results, giving us reassurance that store 
performance is replicable and predictable 
in new locations. Cruquius also achieved 
satisfactory growth in sales year-on-year. 
As expected, our investment in long-term 
brand-building for DFS in The Netherlands 
was reflected in operating costs, net of 
incremental revenue, of approximately 
£2 million during the year, and we expect 
to maintain a similar £2-3 million of net 
investment in the current financial year. 
In September 2016 we opened a 3,300 
sq. ft. store in Amsterdam as our first trial 
in The Netherlands of a smaller format 
store in a shopping centre location. We 
intend to maintain a measured approach 
to additional store openings as we 
strengthen customer awareness and 
reputation in this market, with the long-
term aim of building the scale needed 
to support national TV marketing based 
on the proven model of DFS in the UK.
EXCLUSIVE BRANDS TOTAL  
SALES ORDER INCREASE
35%
EXPRESS DELIVERY LEAD 
TIMES ON CERTAIN RANGES
7 days
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   21 12/10/2016   18:06 22
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
DFS Spain, acquired in October 2015, 
performed well during the year following 
the refit of its showroom in San Javier, 
near Murcia in January 2016. However, 
since our brand primarily appeals to 
the 800,000-strong British expatriate 
community in Spain, recent trading 
in this business has understandably 
seen some impact from the uncertainty 
arising from the EU Referendum vote.
Retail space optimisation
We have established a successful model 
for Dwell to occupy store warehousing 
space converted for retail use within the 
DFS estate. This has two positive results. 
First, the new Dwell stores generate 
higher revenue and profits than we have 
been able to achieve by using converted 
space to sell ranges of beds and dining 
furniture. Secondly, the first twelve Dwell 
stores opened have also generated a 
c.2% like-for-like increase in DFS bookings 
within the associated DFS stores, as these 
stores have benefited from increased 
footfall through new customers and an 
increased frequency of return visits. 
The success of the Dwell store-in-store 
concept has led us to accelerate our 
investment in the Customer Distribution 
Centre (“CDC”) conversion programme. 
This programme releases additional retail 
space by removing DFS’s warehouse 
operations from stores and consolidating 
them into larger, purpose-built, off-site 
facilities. A further six CDCs opened during 
the year, giving us a total of eleven at the 
year-end, which serve approximately half  
of our store estate. We now expect 
to complete the programme with 
the opening of a further eight CDCs 
during the new financial year. 
On completion of the CDC conversion 
programme and store-in-store roll-out 
we will have over 40 Dwell stores giving 
us nationwide coverage, together with 
more than five new Sofa Workshop 
stores, whilst in the remainder of the 
DFS estate we will utilise the remaining 
retail space to carry additional ranges 
of beds and dining furniture. Whereas 
previously we have guided to incremental 
EBITDA per CDC of c.£500k, we now 
expect each of the CDC conversions 
will generate £650k–700k of incremental 
EBITDA including both the benefit of the 
incremental Dwell profitability and also 
the impact of DFS LFL sales growth. 
The roll-out of this programme involves 
significant pre-opening costs in the short 
term, as new sales staff are recruited and 
trained and we scale up our supply chain 
and head office to support the new stores. 
With the scale and pace of roll-out this 
financial year, we believe the incremental 
benefits we are currently seeing will be 
offset by implementation costs, however 
from FY18 and into FY19 we expect 
there will be a £3-4 million increase in 
EBITDA in aggregate above the previous 
guidance given for this growth lever.
Omnichannel
Today the web is the natural starting 
point for most people researching 
a potential furniture purchase and a 
vital gateway and complement to our 
physical stores. Our website dfs.co.uk 
remains a strong leader, continuing to 
attract over 40% of upholstery sector 
web traffic over the course of the year.
Continued investment in our web channel 
this year has included the upgrading of 
our product viewer and room planning 
apps, the development of a new online 
payment system, and the introduction 
of an online order tracking service that 
allows customers to follow the progress 
of their new furniture through every step 
from placing their order to its installation 
in their home. Our mobile and tablet 
sites have remained a focus for our 
development reflecting the changing mix 
of devices our customers use to visit our 
site. We have also enjoyed continued 
double-digit growth in sales completed 
online, making a valuable contribution to 
overall Group sales growth. Subsequent 
to the end of the financial year we also 
successfully replatformed our website 
allow us to continue to grow our scale 
and add incremental functionality.
The integration of online technology with 
our stores has also continued during the 
financial year, with roll-out of ‘Swoosh’ 
furniture visualisation technology in over 
70% of the DFS estate, with all stores 
planned to have the technology before 
our key Winter Sale trading period. This 
allows us to project the full range of models, 
colours and materials on a video wall in 
store, enabling customers to see exactly 
how their chosen product will look in 
their homes, and helping our store staff 
to sell the full breadth of the DFS range.
Customer service
We remain determined to deliver the 
highest standards of service to all our 
customers. Our approach relies both 
on proactive training and Net Promoter 
Score (“NPS”) linked incentivisation of our 
staff, combined with a feedback system 
that allows us accurately to measure 
and track the satisfaction of customers 
throughout their purchase down to product, 
store, factory and employee level. 
I am pleased to report a further 
improvement in our post-purchase NPS 
to 83.9% (FY15: 78.8%) during the year. 
As I indicated in our last annual report, 
we have placed increasing emphasis on 
our ability to deliver established customer 
satisfaction – the willingness of customers 
to recommend our products to their friends 
or family six months after making their 
own purchase. This established customer 
satisfaction (surveyed six months post-
delivery) showed a substantial improvement 
to 31.2%, compared with 21.9% in the 
prior year. All our management and 
customer-facing staff are now incentivised 
according to the results achieved in 
these established customer NPS.
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   22 12/10/2016   18:06 23
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Management
I would like to join the Chairman in  
thanking Bill Barnes for his great  
contribution to DFS as our Group  
Finance Director since 2003, and to wish 
him a very long and happy retirement. 
As well as welcoming Nicola Bancroft  
to her new role as Chief Financial Officer,  
I would like to welcome Toni Wood to our 
Executive Committee as Chief Marketing 
Officer. Toni joins us from Costa Coffee, 
where she was Global Brand & Digital 
Director, and has previously held senior 
marketing roles at The Jordans & Ryvita 
Company, Findus and Procter & Gamble.
Corporate responsibility
We have continued to work hard to  
be a responsible and sustainable 
 business that puts something back 
 into the communities where we operate. 
Our Energy Management Policy has 
continued to reduce our environmental 
impact by reducing emissions from 
our delivery vehicles and company car 
fleet, and by upgrading store lighting 
through the installation of low-energy 
SHARE OF THE UPHOLSTERY 
SECTOR WEB TRAFFIC  
DFS.CO.UK ATTRACTS  
DURING A YEAR
40%
ESTABLISHED CUSTOMER  
NPS (SIX MONTHS POST ORDER) 
INCREASED TO
31.2%
AMOUNT RAISED FOR THE 
BRITISH HEART FOUNDATION  
IN 2016
£3.4m
LED equipment. Our ISO 14001 
environmental accreditation was extended 
during the year to cover DFS retail stores 
as well as our head office in Doncaster.
In the community, we have continued 
our partnership with the British Heart 
Foundation (“BHF") both in fundraising 
through the successful sofa recycling 
scheme, and in training and raising 
awareness among our people. All  
new starters at DFS receive training 
in CPR skills which may prove literally 
life-saving. We are proud to have raised 
£3.4 million for BHF during the year 
and also to have raised more than 
£750,000 for BBC Children in Need.
Team GB partnership
We were delighted to play a part in the 
historic and well-deserved success of 
Team GB in the Rio 2016 Olympics through 
our sponsorship as Team GB’s official 
homeware partner. In this role we were 
responsible for making Team GB’s base 
in Rio a comfortable home-from-home 
for our athletes. It was naturally a source 
of particular pride and pleasure that all 
our participating Brand Ambassadors 
– Adam Peaty, Laura Trott and Max 
Whitlock – won gold medals during the 
games: successes which we were able 
to celebrate on digital billboards across 
the UK highlighting our partnership. 
As well as helping to enhance the profile 
of DFS through connected advertising, 
the partnership enabled us to engage our 
staff with the athletes’ philosophy of how 
marginal gains in many areas can add 
up to a noticeable improvement in overall 
performance. We held a number of internal 
events to drive staff engagement across 
the business, including holding our very 
own DFS Olympics in Doncaster, and 
were grateful to our Brand Ambassador 
Denise Lewis, the 2000 gold medallist 
in the heptathlon, for helping to build 
excitement and support in the run-up to 
the games by undertaking a nationwide 
tour of our stores and factories. 
Outlook
The relatively short trading period inevitably 
makes it hard to predict the impact of 
the EU Referendum on the furniture retail 
market however we are reassured that 
the Group’s trading in the last fourteen 
weeks has not indicated any weakening 
of demand to date. We recognise that in 
2017 retailing of furniture in the UK faces 
an increased risk of a market slowdown 
with additional cost pressures from foreign 
exchange movements, whilst it is likely that 
the retail environment will remain intensely 
competitive. However, with its proven 
resilient operating model the Group remains 
very well positioned to mitigate economic 
headwinds and achieve continued growth 
in its share of the UK retail furniture market.
Overall we believe DFS enjoys excellent 
prospects to deliver long-term profitable 
growth, strong cash generation and a 
progressive dividend policy as one of 
the UK’s best-known brands, a major 
British manufacturer and the country’s 
leading retailer of upholstered furniture. 
Ian Filby
Chief Executive Officer
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   23 12/10/2016   18:06
