 08
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Delivering on  
our strategy
“The tried and tested DFS growth 
strategy has delivered another set of 
record results and put us in an 
excellent position, as the market 
leader, to continue to generate 
shareholder value. Our unique and 
flexible business model, the quality 
and commitment of our people, our 
family culture and our focus on 
customer satisfaction remain the key 
factors behind our continuing 
success.” 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   8 12/10/2016   18:06 09
Governance
DFS Annual report and accounts 2016
Strategic report Financial statements
Growth strategy on track
I am delighted to report that our financial 
and operational progress remains on 
track. These excellent results reflect 
the executive management team’s 
successful implementation of multiple 
strategic initiatives that have delivered 
ahead of our expectations in a number 
of areas, enabling us once again to 
outperform the furniture retail market 
as a whole. Such outperformance has 
been a consistent feature of the DFS 
track record in all the varied market 
conditions the business has encountered 
throughout its long operating history.
Our markets
The key macroeconomic indicators of 
consumer confidence, housing market 
activity and consumer credit availability 
remained generally favourable throughout 
the year, enabling the UK retail furniture 
market to continue its recovery from 
the low point it reached in 2011, in the 
wake of the global financial crisis. The 
market still remains, however, some 20% 
smaller by value than at its peak in 2007, 
potentially indicating further scope for 
growth in the longer term once current 
economic uncertainties are resolved.
Results and dividend
The business performed strongly 
throughout the year to deliver continued 
record levels of revenues, profits and cash 
flow. The strong cash generation that is 
such an important feature of our business 
enables the Board to recommend 
payment of a final dividend of 7.5 pence 
per share (FY15: 6.2 pence), an increase 
of 21.0%. Together with the increased 
interim dividend of 3.5 pence (FY15: 
3.1. pence) paid in June, this makes a 
total dividend for the year of 11.0 pence 
(FY15: 9.3 pence), a rise of 18.3%, in line 
with our commitment to deliver excellent 
returns to our shareholders through a 
consistently progressive dividend policy.
Given the strong progress in reducing 
our financial leverage and current positive 
trading momentum, the Board is also 
pleased to confirm it currently expects 
that the business will be in a position, 
at the interim results in March 2017, 
to announce a further special capital 
return to shareholders anticipated to 
occur prior to the current financial year 
end in July 2017. In the interests of 
prudence, the return would depend on 
the capital requirements of the business, 
in line with the detailed guidance 
given within the Financial Review. 
People
Our whole family of some 4,000 people 
deserve our sincere thanks for their 
hard work in delivering another set 
of record results. Their commitment 
to delivering outstanding service to 
our customers at every stage of their 
experience with DFS is endorsed by 
record levels of customer satisfaction, as 
measured by our Net Promoter Scores.
I am delighted to welcome Nicola Bancroft 
to our Board as Chief Financial Officer, 
following the retirement of Bill Barnes 
after almost 13 years. Bill leaves with 
our thanks and our very best wishes for 
the future. Nicola and Bill have worked 
closely together for the last three years 
and the handover of responsibilities 
has therefore been seamless and 
smooth. I am particularly pleased that 
we now have equal representation 
of women and men on our Board.
Conclusion
DFS has weathered many forms of 
political and economic turbulence during 
its 47 years of operating history, and I 
have confidence that we will continue 
to be well positioned despite the 
uncertainties inevitably surrounding the 
outcome of the EU Referendum. Our 
business model, scale, vertical integration 
and highly flexible cost base all provide 
resilience against potentially weaker 
trading conditions, relative to the market. 
We will continue to pursue our proven 
long-term growth strategy, leveraging 
our excellent cash flow to invest in the 
business for the future, and I am confident 
that this will continue to deliver long-
term profitable growth and cash returns 
for the benefit of all our stakeholders. 
Richard Baker
Chairman
5 October 2016
Job:  Proof Read by:
Operator: update when worked on  Proof: 00 
Set-up: put your name here Date:  First Read/Revisions
25579 DFS RA_BOOK.indb   9 12/10/2016   18:06
