 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s strategic review
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS WITH 
STRATEGY IMPLEMENTATION
A clear strategic vision
 “ We have a clear growth strategy, a simple financial model 
and a customer-focused organisation which enables the 
business to adapt to changing market opportunities.”
Michael Sutsko, Group Chief Executive
Q&A WITH MICHAEL SUTSKO
Q: How would you summarise the past year?
A: We have executed phase one of our plan to rebuild, lead and 
grow Dialight to capture the industrial LED market opportunity. 
This strategy is progressing well and has fundamentally 
improved the Group’s operating model, positioning it for long 
term sustainable growth. This progress is reflected in our 
financial results. We have made tremendous progress on the 
strategic vision I set out in last year’s report. With a focus on 
maintaining our technology lead in Lighting, we have improved 
the quality of our earnings by building enhanced capabilities 
across multiple industrial segments and geographies. We have 
invested in building a scalable manufacturing operation and 
improving our business processes. As we successfully execute 
the early phase of our three year strategy, we are looking to 
use the additional scope and capability to deliver growth.
Q: Can you explain the results and the 
divisional performance?
A: In the year, we delivered an increase in underlying profit and 
cash flow on revenue growth of 13% (2% at constant currency). 
This was a particularly encouraging result in the context of 
uncertain market conditions. Group revenue was £182.2m 
(2015: £161.4m), including a favourable currency exchange 
impact of £17.9m. The US and Europe, which generate the 
majority of our revenues, were broadly flat on a constant 
currency basis. Underlying operating profit increased to 
£13.1m (2015: £6.1m), including a favourable exchange impact 
of £1.5m. Our lighting order intake for 2016 was up 8% to 
£139.8m (at constant currency) over 2015, reflecting early signs 
£13.1M
Underlying EBIT
£182.2M
Group revenue
of progress in our strategic initiatives. Strong performance 
at a segment level saw a £6.7m increase in the operating profit 
of the Lighting division and a £2.2m increase in Signals 
and Components.
Dialight has a strong balance sheet supported by good 
working capital management and a new five-year credit facility. 
The Group’s continued focus on working capital management 
delivered net cash from operations of £16.3m (2015: £8.7m). 
We continued to invest in long-term growth with net investment 
in capital expenditure of £3.9m (2015: £3.3m). The critical part 
of our strategy to rebuild for long-term growth resulted in 
non-underlying costs of £16.4m. These costs were predominately 
non cash with £5.1m relating to intangible assets. Further details 
are in the Financial Review. We finished the year with net cash of 
£8.0m and the Group refinanced its existing revolving credit 
facility of £25.0m with HSBC for a further 5 years ensuring 
significant financial flexibility.
Q: How has the Company maintained the advantage 
of differentiated technology and a strong brand?
A: The need for enhanced light and energy management – 
via controls and sensors – drives demand for our products. 
This plays to Dialight’s strengths and differentiators: proven 
technology and a market leading position in industrial markets 
built over a decade as a group purely focused on LED lighting. 
12
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com Q: How is the strategy for sustainable, profitable 
growth progressing?
A: The first phase of our plan – to rebuild Dialight – is almost 
complete. Our operating model supports scalable and cost 
efficient production. By switching to ’platform engineering’ 
(standardising the design of our product parts to be used as the 
foundation for all of our finished products), we have fundamentally 
improved supply chain management and streamlined our 
operations. Platform engineering our products reduces the 
number of discrete product lines, which in turn has improved 
forecast accuracy for manufacturing planning and reduced 
inventory. During 2016, 10 out of 12 product groups moved to 
platform engineering. The remaining two will follow in mid-2017. 
The shift to platform engineering has enabled us to secure 
a manufacturing partnership with Sanmina (a Fortune 500 
company with 44,000 employees worldwide based in 25 
countries), giving us greater focus on our design capability. 
This first phase of the switch to a manufacturing partnership 
is progressing well, and supports our drive for scalable 
operations. Three product lines were transferred during 2016, 
with the balance to be completed by during 2017.
We have closed our factory in Newmarket, UK and are in 
the process of scaling back the facilities in Mexico. 
Further growth initiatives are underway. With continued 
expansion of our distributor coverage, 47 new distributors were 
added in 2016. We have also continued to invest in our product 
roadmap to maintain our technological lead; 37 new products 
were launched. We have refocused our commercial teams to 
diversify our sector and geographic exposure and increase 
the sales to strategic accounts. This has seen a reduction in 
the reliance on the oil and gas sector from 24% of revenue 
in 2015 to 16% in 2016. We have a higher quality sales team 
with broader international experience which has increased our 
revenue per sales head from £1.2m in 2014 to £1.5m in 2016 at 
constant currency.
Q: What feedback do you get from customers?
A: Our customers are true Dialight enthusiasts. Our durable 
products live up to our guarantees and work even when other 
lights don’t. Beyond the compelling financial reason to convert to 
Dialight lighting, it is the quality and safety of the work environment 
that we create for our customers that keep them coming back to 
us for more. This is further strengthened by our warranty.
Q: How does the multi-channel distribution model support 
the business objectives?
A: Our customers have many options and influences in 
choosing their lighting solutions. It is vital for Dialight to engage 
each of these channels and clearly communicate the value we 
bring, as our products are often purchased through industrial 
distributors; the benefits of choosing Dialight are also driven 
through our end use customers and their engineering and 
automation partners.
The Dialight Difference is a complex mix of technology and 
channel experience. We are unencumbered by the traditional 
lighting legacy of our competitors, which enables us to deliver 
an energy efficient solution that virtually eliminates maintenance 
costs. Through a robust technology roadmap we are able to 
quickly bring new products to market. Improvements in quality 
and delivery have also reinforced the value Dialight brings to 
its customers.
Innovation in the LED industrial market is increasingly 
combining lighting systems with network sources, into a single 
platform. This moves beyond energy and cost savings to 
providing meaningful improvements in safety and productivity. 
Dialight is capturing this trend by adding industrial automation 
systems and enabling the “Internet of Things” into its product 
portfolio. This allows factory owners to control individual 
systems within their plants via a single platform, and to collect 
data as part of the evolution towards smart buildings. 
Three automation partnerships are now underway with 
Rockwell Automation, Honeywell Tridium and INEM (controls 
and maintenance system for Obstruction Lighting allowing 
connectivity with network operations centres). 
Q: What are the market challenges and opportunities 
you see for the business?
A: Macroeconomic factors have been challenging, such as 
limited industrial spending due to low oil and commodity prices. 
However, there is a large market that is now familiar with LED 
technology though still unconverted. Dialight is in a leading 
position to capitalise on this growth opportunity. Our technologies 
will continue to deliver increasing returns and we expect 
continued favourable trends in energy and safety regulations.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
13
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Chief Executive’s strategic review continued
Q: How do you see the Group’s international 
ambitions developing?
A: In 2016, Dialight was able to grow its business outside of 
North America at a greater pace. We have strengthened our 
European sales team and distribution relationships, and have 
implemented our technology centre in Copenhagen. In addition, 
we have seen strong growth in Australia and Brazil.
Q: How do you maintain a technological lead in products?
A: Dialight has deep relationships with its customers across our 
industrial segments and a strong connection to bring their voice 
back into our product development teams. This insight, combined 
with our engineering team’s pulse on new technology, create a 
robust roadmap that will maintain Dialight’s competitive advantage 
for many years. Continued innovation in power management, 
optics technology, ease of use and safety maintain our difference 
and lower our customers’ cost of ownership.
Q: How is sustainability embedded in the Company 
strategy, management systems and operating processes?
A: The Group has the world’s largest installed base in heavy 
industrial LED lighting, with over 750,000 LED fixtures worldwide. 
Dialight fixtures have contributed to a reduction of 1.1 billion kwh 
of energy consumption.
As we are delivering energy savings and workplace safety to 
our customers, we believe that we must live by the same values we 
sell. Dialight is committed to reducing its own carbon footprint, 
treating our employees and business partners with unwavering 
respect, and ensuring that we are doing everything possible 
throughout our supply chain to make the world better each day.
Q: What are the risks and opportunities you see over the 
next 24 months?
A: The US and global industrial markets continued to be 
challenging, led by the oil and gas sector. To counter this, 
Dialight’s efforts to develop new opportunities have been 
successful and we have seen an 8% increase at constant 
currency in the lighting order book compared to 2016. 
There was continued growth in non-US markets with 
Australia up 15% and Brazil up 129%. 
Our biggest risk centres on market uncertainty. If industrial 
capital and operational spending remains at current levels, we 
will see projects continuing to be delayed. Dialight has prepared 
for growth by rebuilding the organisation so that we are able to 
scale our operations. However, a rebound in spending, our own 
improvements of customers’ cost of ownership, and increasing 
trends in energy and safety regulations provide a significant 
opportunity to accelerate the large industrial lighting conversion 
to our technology.
Q: How has the new executive team helped you shape the 
direction of the business?
A: As part of our rebuild strategy, we have simplified our 
organisation and built upon the talented team here, with 
some existing and some new people. Our strongest leaders 
have brought our entire organisation together to be more 
collaborative and focused. This executive team has fostered 
collaboration globally, giving Dialight tremendous capacity 
to drive growth, sustainability and profitability.
Q: How do your culture and values shape the business and 
drive performance?
A: Our values centre on unity, a company with a focused 
strategy globally. Our culture is now one of accountability, 
performance, collaboration, innovation, trust and respect. 
These values give us the framework to drive change and 
accelerate our path to achieving our goals.
Q: So are people generally responding well to the change 
within Dialight?
A: We have very engaged and energised people in Dialight. 
The sentiments are those of hard work but fun. The key has 
been sharing a common vision and strategy while empowering 
and enabling teams and individuals to share in our direction and 
leadership. This was my early focus at Dialight and has laid the 
foundation for our ability to execute changes. The teams can 
all see where we are headed and how exciting it is becoming.
Q: What is the outlook for the business?
A: 2016 was a year of change for Dialight. We are making good 
progress with our three-year plan to return to sustainable profit 
growth. Phase one of the plan, to rebuild our operating model, 
is largely complete. The sustainability benefits of reduced 
energy usage, lower carbon emissions, reduced maintenance 
and improved safety offer real value to our customers. This 
progress underpinned our encouraging financial performance 
in challenging market conditions.
Phase two of the plan – growth initiatives to capture the 
long-term opportunity in LED lighting – is underway, and on 
track to deliver against our strategic plan. We remain confident 
of the Group’s prospects for 2017 and over the medium to 
long-term, based on current FX rates.
As set out in the coming pages, we have considered in 
detail what we need to do to amplify and evolve – strategically 
and operationally – to secure the next phase of our growth, and 
to be the company we want to be in a changing world. Through 
a programme of new initiatives to enhance productivity and 
efficiency across product and processes, we are confident that 
Dialight will outperform the sector in the coming years. We will 
become a more effective organisation in the process, because 
we will have to think differently and work differently to capture 
the significant revenue opportunities we have identified. This 
will bring change and challenge, but it will also energise our 
whole organisation.
Michael Sutsko
Group Chief Executive
27 February 2017
14
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com A STRONG AND ENGAGED 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Pictured above are the members of the Dialight Executive 
Management Committee, which comprises functional heads 
from all areas of the business including Operations, 
Engineering, Sales, Finance, Legal and Human Resources.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
15
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
