 98.8
%
98.8 per cent of families said that 
Dignity met or exceeded their
expectations.
See Strategy and business model:
p.08 and p.09
See Marketoverview: 
p.06 and p.07
See Operating review: 
p.16 to p.22
Chief Executive’s overview
A strong platform to drive growth 
and deliver long-term value. 
Links
Dignity plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 05
Mike McCollum, Chief Executive
Performance in 2016
• Strong cost control.
• Core portfolio continues to deliver growth.
• Invested in the business where
appropriate.
• Acquisitions add further value.
Our objective is to lead the funeral
sector in professional standards
and service. I believe we do this
and that we continue to improve.
Our clients value this which is why
they return to us and recommend
us, allowing us to report strong
financial results. 
Differentiating through service quality
and consistency
• The results of our funeral service surveys
continue to demonstrate the strength and
quality of our people and operations.
• High levels of client satisfaction help us 
to build trust and maintain loyalty to our
brand and services and develop strong
relationships with both returning and 
new clients.
• Strategic and effective management of
our resources and relationships is vital in
ensuring the sustainability of our business.
Sustainability and continuity
• Our clear and consistent strategy remains
focused on the principle that by operating
with the best people and practices, we will
continue to deliver outstanding service to
our clients and generate sustained value
for all our stakeholders.
• Our strong capital management underpins
our ability to enhance our operations and
services through: continuous improvement;
investment in steady organic and acquired
growth;and further strategic development.
“
Driving sustainable performance 
Overview
A year ago, we described an extraordinary
period in 2015, with the number of deaths
increasing by seven per cent to 588,000. 
We noted that it was likely this sharp
increase would normalise in 2016, but this
has not been the case. Reported deaths
were slightly higher than 2015 at 590,000.
Allowing for the fact that 2016 represents 
a 53 week period for the Group, means 
that even on a 52 week comparable basis,
deaths were only approximately two per
cent lower in the period. This has enabled
us to grow profits year on year and
outperform expectations despite some
headwinds experienced by the business.
The performance reflects a larger market
share loss in our core business than seen
before, combined with additional costs
incurred to support the business. The
market share decline follows stronger
market share than expected in 2015. 
2017 has started well but we continue 
to keep this under review. 
We expect 2017 to be a year where we
develop the business further in response 
to the changing environment in which we
operate. For example, we have engaged
with the reviews into funeral services by 
the Scottish and Westminster parliaments,
arguing for regulation of funeral services
and pre-arranged funeral plans. We are also
working hard on introducing new digital
services. The first such example is 
the launch of Simplicity Cremations, 
a nationally available, online, affordable
direct cremation service (where there is 
no traditional funeral service, simply the
collection and unwitnessed cremation 
of the deceased and then return of the
ashes). This does not replace the full
service, traditional funeral that we provide,
but rather provides families with a lower
cost simple option. The market for this
service is currently small but given our
significant national networks of funeral
locations and crematoria we are able to
offer this service in a more comprehensive
and cost effective way than other operators.
Corporate activity
The business invested £56.3 million 
on acquisitions in the period, including
£41.1 million (excluding external
transaction costs) to acquire five
crematoria locations from Funeral Services
Limited (trading as Co-op Funeralcare) 
(the ‘Crematoria Acquisition’). This was an
unexpected opportunity for the Group and
one we were able to quickly respond to
thanks to our strong balance sheet and
detailed understanding of the market. 
The Crematoria Acquisition generated 
£1.0 million of operating profit in the
period, in line with expectations.
We have also seen further developments 
in our plan to build new crematoria. 
An update on this is described in the
Operating Review.
Maintaining investment and development
momentum in our core business
We continue to set aside resources to 
invest in our existing funeral and crematoria
locations. We have increased the staffing 
of our property team in the year to manage
our estate and associated capital
expenditure more efficiently and to create
additional recourse for finding funeral
satellite locations and crematorium sites.
This should help to free local management
time so that they can further focus on
delivering excellent client service.
Long-term focus drives strong
performance
The business has yet again demonstrated 
its robustness and is well placed for the
future. We hope to achieve our revised
medium-term target of eight per cent per
annum increases in earnings per share 
by staying focused on excellent service,
operating efficiently, selling pre-arranged
funeral plans, acquiring and developing
quality businesses where possible and
keeping our capital structure appropriately
leveraged.
We will also need to ensure the high
standards Dignity operates at are properly
understood by all stakeholders; particularly
given continued political and media interest
in the sector and our ongoing support for
better regulation of the industries in which
we operate.
Overview 01 – 03 Strategic Report 04 – 36 Governance  37 – 65 Financial Statements 66 – 117 Other Information 118 – 120
Dignity_AR_FrontEnd_Master_2016 Q9 tp_Layout 1  30/03/2017  13:12  Page 8
Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.p5.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: CyanMagentaYellowBlackPANTONE 221 C
