 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
“ The business 
is committed to 
maintaining its policy 
of investing in its 
products and services 
whilst rewarding its 
shareholders.”
Dr Mike Love 
Non-Executive Chairman
71% Recurring
24%
5%
Non recurring
3rd Party
Revenue analysis  
2016
Product development 
continues to be a priority 
with a number of upgrades 
and new product launches 
successfully achieved  
in 2016. The Group delivered 
its best ever revenue 
performance with revenue 
up 6% to £9.963m.
This performance was impacted by the Brexit 
vote in the UK, which reduced demand in  
our home markets while weakening Sterling  
and, therefore, increasing the value of our 
overseas sales. 
Underlying profit before tax, acquisition costs 
and one–off adjustments rose 3% to £1.458m. 
As mentioned in our pre close statement, the 
Group has undertaken a review of its accounting 
judgements in respect of the amortisation of 
platform development costs and subsequently 
decided to write these costs off over a period 
of five years, rather than a period of five to 
ten years, resulting in a one–off adjustment of 
£0.720m. Accordingly, operating profit fell to 
£0.412m with reported profit after tax falling 
to £0.526m. This is a non-cash accounting 
adjustment and brings our accounting treatment 
into line with industry practice. The resulting 
basic EPS for the period was 2.68p. 
Dividends
The Board was pleased to increase the interim 
dividend payment in September 2016 to 1.375p 
per share (2015: 1.35p) and has recommended 
an increased final dividend of 2.8p per share 
(2015: 2.75p), subject to shareholder approval, 
payable on 27 June 2017 to holders on the 
register on 2 June 2017. Shares will trade ex 
dividend from 1 June 2017. This takes the total 
dividend based on the 2016 results to 4.175p 
(2015: 4.10p), and gives a yield of 4.9% on a 
share price of 84.5p. 
This represents our fifth successive year on year 
increase in the dividend, in line with our policy 
of progressing dividend payments, subject to 
the cash needs of the business. The business is 
committed to maintaining its policy of investing 
in its products and services whilst rewarding its 
shareholders. 
Staff
Our staff are fundamental to our success. 
It is through their efforts, commitment and 
determination that we continue to be a leading 
technology provider in the sectors we serve. 
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all of our staff. 
Outlook
We are pleased to note that total revenue in 
Q1 2017 is ahead of the same period in 2016 
despite turbulent markets for many of our 
recruitment clients. 
Although the Group derives revenue from clients 
around the Globe, 72% of our revenues in 2016 
were derived from the UK recruitment market 
and the decision of the UK to “Brexit”, taken in 
June 2016, has had an impact on this sector. In 
turn, this has impacted our new business sales: 
while incoming orders in the first quarter of 2016 
benefited from a confident UK economy, this has 
not been the case in the second half of 2016 and 
the first quarter of 2017. 
While new business orders may have been 
impacted by economic turbulence, our recurring 
revenue base has reached record levels. This is 
true for both of our divisions and these long term 
recurring revenues are expected to cover the 
majority of our administrative costs and thereby 
giving us confidence in the future of the Group. 
Furthermore, we are anticipating an 
improvement in orders in the latter months of 
2017 and the early part of 2018 as the incoming 
General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) 
rules, which come into effect on 25 May 2018 
and which will require recruitment firms to 
take steps in the run up, are likely to have a 
significant impact on the recruitment technology 
space. We believe that this impact will be positive 
for the Group. 
Technological innovation is key to our long term 
success. In addition to the ongoing development 
of our existing product range, the Group is 
investing in the creation of an exciting new 
product. While development of this product has 
begun, it will not generate significant revenue 
prior to 2018, and although the majority of 
development costs are expected to be capitalised 
other costs will be expensed in 2017. Despite 
the increased expenditure, we believe that this 
product will have a significant positive impact 
in the future. We are currently appraising debt 
funding arrangements for the completion and 
launch of this new product. 
Overall, despite what we consider to be short 
term economic turbulence, the Group believes 
that it is in a strong position in its core markets 
and is confident of future progress. As a result, 
we are delighted to propose an increase in our 
final dividend of 1.8% to 2.8p (2015: 2.75p). 
Dr Mike Love
Non-Executive Chairman
25 April 2017
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
stock code: DSG
6
Chairman’s Statement
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   6 09/05/2017   16:37:02 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
Case Study
In each annual report we highlight how one of our solutions 
is helping a client to generate real business efficiencies. Last 
year our case study looked at how White Knight Recruitment is 
taking advantage of two of our products – Infinity and FastPath. 
This year we are looking at Damhurst & Co.  
Damhurst & Co is a retained executive search company 
established in 2016, focusing on mid-senior appointments  
in the insurance and reinsurance sector.
After using a competitive product for 
years at his previous firm, company 
director James Cooper reviewed 
other executive search software 
options, and decided that FileFinder 
Anywhere was the solution best 
meeting his requirements. 
Six months after going live, James 
shares what affected his decision 
and his initial impressions as a 
FileFinder user. 
Dillistone Systems: Why did you 
decide to invest in specialised 
executive search software?
James Cooper: I believe that executive 
search and recruitment are very 
different, therefore they have different 
requirements when it comes to 
technology. As a research-driven 
business, data is paramount for 
us – so we needed to find the best 
system, tools and people to help us 
collect and use data for our search 
assignments. After reviewing the 
market, FileFinder Anywhere and  
the Dillistone team seemed to tick  
all the boxes!
Dillistone Systems: How was the 
implementation process?
James Cooper: Implementing 
FileFinder Anywhere was a very 
easy and enjoyable process, mostly 
because of the people we have had 
to deal with at Dillistone Systems – 
in particular, I want to thank your 
projects and training teams for their 
efforts, and for being very helpful 
during the whole transition period. 
Dillistone Systems: Six months 
in, what are your impressions of 
FileFinder Anywhere?
James Cooper: FileFinder Anywhere 
is a sophisticated piece of software. 
Previously, I used a well-known 
competitive product, and enjoyed 
using it very much – however, now 
that I am using FileFinder Anywhere, 
I would not swap back for love or 
money! You have to invest some time 
in learning how to use the product but 
it is all worthwhile in the end – and 
again, the training team is there to 
help and they are doing a superb job. 
Dillistone Systems: How do you rate 
our support service?
James Cooper: The technical support 
service is anything but formulaic. 
The support team really does listen 
to you, they take time to understand 
what the issue is, and after a couple 
of conversations, we have been able 
to match our processes to FileFinder. 
I can now run reports showing the 
entire scope of my projects, which  
is very helpful. 
Dillistone Systems: Was your decision 
to invest in FileFinder Anywhere the 
right one for your business?
James Cooper: 100% yes! It has 
definitely impacted our productivity 
and our ability to serve our clients 
better. 
Dillistone Systems: Would you 
recommend FileFinder Anywhere to 
other executive search firms?
James Cooper: Yes, I would… but only 
if they are not operating in our sector!
07
Q&A with James Cooper
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   7 09/05/2017   16:37:03
