 Strategic report
Chairman’s letter
INITIATIVES UNDER WAY  
TO DRIVE LONG- TERM 
SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
GOVERNANCE HIGHLIGHTS
The Governance report on pages 42 to 78 provides details 
of the Group’s approach to governance and how it supports 
the delivery of our strategy. Highlights for the year included:
Nominations Committee
 — Appointed three new Non-Executive Directors.
 — Monitored the inductions of those Directors.
 — Reviewed the pipeline of potential future Board members.
 — Read more in the Nominations Committee report on pages 56 and 57.
Audit Committee
 — Reviewed significant judgements made by management 
in preparing the 2016 financial statements.
 — Monitored the Group’s systems of risk management 
and internal controls.
 — Supported the Board in providing the viability statement.
 — Read more in the Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 55.
Remuneration Committee
 — Reviewed the framework for executive remuneration.
 — Consulted with shareholders with respect to the Executive 
Directors’ remuneration for 2017.
 — Approved the Executive Directors’ 2016 bonus payments, 
assessed the Executive Directors’ performance against 
2016 targets and set their 2017 bonus targets.
 — Read more in the Remuneration Committee report  
on pages 58 to 74.
Dialight has made excellent financial and operating progress in 
2016. The Group delivered sales and underlying profit growth 
and took steps operationally which will ensure the business can 
deliver durable long-term profit growth. The core markets for 
our products remain robust despite near-term volatility, and 
intelligent lighting solutions continue to grow.
Our management team has responded by improving sales, 
product management and operating capabilities which will be 
leveraged further in coming years. We continue to believe the 
pace of LED conversion will continue to grow in the near term as 
traditional lighting solutions are phased out. As a result, the Board 
is confident in the Group’s compelling opportunities in the future. 
Results
Dialight delivered 2016 revenues of £182m and underlying 
operating profit of £13m. The Lighting segment generated an 
underlying operating profit of £14m reflecting a return to more 
normal levels as it continued rebuilding its organisation. The 
Signals and Components business generated an underlying 
operating profit of £5m. Restructuring costs in support of our 
three-year strategic plan were £16m resulting in a loss for the 
year of £3m. The Group ended the year with a strong cash 
balance of £8m and a new banking facility.
Our people
Changes were made to the senior management team in 
2015 and 2016, including the hire of Michael Sutsko as Chief 
Executive. These changes were aimed at attracting people 
with the specific skills and experiences to support the Group’s 
strategy and growth plans. Overall, under Michael’s leadership, 
the team has made strong progress in improving sales and 
operational capabilities, controls and investment discipline 
as evidenced by our 2016 financial performance. The Board 
believes the management team is capable of achieving 
10
Dialight plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 dialight.com
