 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
“ This strategy  
is made possible 
through our 
commitment 
to product 
development.”
Jason Starr 
Chief Executive
49% Dillistone
51% Voyager
Divisional revenue analysis  
2016
Dillistone Group Plc is a 
global leader in the supply 
of technology solutions and 
services to the recruitment 
sector worldwide.
Strategy and objectives
The Group’s strategy is to grow the business both 
organically and through acquisition. This strategy 
is made possible through our commitment to 
product development, which ensures that the 
business continues to command a leading role in 
all of the markets in which it operates. 
Our acquisition strategy typically entails 
consideration of businesses offering:
• products that would further increase market 
share in the Group’s core markets; 
• legacy applications, where clients could be 
transferred to our modern suite of products; or
• complementary applications, which may be 
cross-sold to clients of the Group.
The Group’s objectives are principally to:
• ensure our products meet the needs of 
the recruitment sector through continual 
investment and development;
• be a leading player in all of the markets we 
serve;
• develop our staff delivering progressive career 
development;
• increase our profitability and deliver increased 
shareholder value year on year in conjunction 
with a progressive dividend policy.
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
The Board and management use absolute figures to monitor the performance of the business in the 
following financial KPIs:
FY 2015 
£’000
FY 2016
£’000 measure used by management
Met/Not
met
Total revenues 9,437 9,963 year on year growth met
Recurring revenues 6,606 7,027 year on year growth met
Non recurring revenues 2,333 2,370 year on year growth met
Adjusted profit before tax 1,416 1,458 year on year growth met
Cash less borrowings 1,270 1,379 sufficient cash resources maintained met
Adjusted profit before tax is statutory profit before acquisition costs, related intangible amortisation, movements in 
contingent consideration and other one–off costs. See note 2 and note 5. 
In addition, the Board monitors order levels and employee numbers as well as performance  
against budget. 
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
stock code: DSG
8
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   8 09/05/2017   16:37:04 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
Our business model
The business is split into two divisions, Dillistone 
Systems and Voyager Software. Dillistone Systems 
specialises in the supply of software and services 
into executive-level recruitment teams. Voyager 
Software’s clientele are primarily involved in 
contingent recruitment, including permanent 
placement, contract placement and the provision 
of temporary staff. Across our subsidiaries, we 
work with over 2,000 firms in approximately 60 
countries. Further details of the products we 
supply are given in the ‘At a Glance’ section. 
The majority of our products are delivered 
through one or more of the following:
1. an upfront licence fee plus a recurring 
support fee;
2. Software as a Service (SaaS) subscription 
basis; or
3. a hybrid model incorporating an upfront 
payment and recurring support and Cloud 
hosting fees.
There is a continuing move towards our Cloud 
delivery services. 
The business operates out of four countries: the 
UK, Germany, the US and Australia. As well as 
supplying and supporting our software we also 
host the software for a proportion of our clients. 
This is done through data centres in Europe, the 
Americas, Singapore and Australia. 
In 2000+ ﬁrms across 60 countries, our clients are situated  
across the entire recruitment landscape.
They say that we provide them with:
Stability, ﬂexibility and functionality
Easy access to their data 
Rapid deployment
Ongoing development ensures upgrade path for clients
Our large client base means that we do not depend on a  
small number of clients.
We generate revenue typically through three pricing mechanisms:
Upfront licence fee plus recurring support fee
Software as a Service (SaaS) subscription basis
Hybrid model incorporating upfront payment and recurring support 
and hosting fees
Short and long term value 
for our clients
Short and long term value for 
our shareholders
THAT PROVIDE
Global thought leaders
Ofﬁces in UK, Germany, USA, and Australia
 Data centres in Europe, USA, Brazil, Singapore, and Australia
Around 120 staff
  Our suite of innovative recruitment software is packaged with  
an end-to-end service
 Additional services include training, data translation, support 
services and running conferences
 Our data centres enable us to offer optional hosting
Our IP, human and physical capabilities Products and services
WE UTILISE TO DELIVER
Further details of the products we supply are given  
in the ‘At a Glance’ section on pages 4 and 5
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
www.dillistonegroup.com 9
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   9 09/05/2017   16:37:04 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
Group review  
of the business
2016 saw recurring revenues grow 6%  
to £7.027m (2015: £6.606m) reflecting,  
in part, a foreign currency impact from  
Sterling weakening in 2016 (impact 3%).  
Non-recurring revenues increased 2% to 
£2.370m (2015: £2.333m). As a result, 
overall revenues increased by 6% to £9.963m 
(2015: £9.437m) with recurring revenues 
representing 71% of Group revenues 
(2015: 70%). Overheads have increased across 
the business mainly as a result of the one–off 
adjustment in respect of the amortisation of 
platform development costs, referred to below, 
with an adverse impact on results of £0.720m. 
Clearly, this adjustment is an accounting change 
in an estimate and is cash neutral. Adjusted 
EBITDA saw a 6% increase to £2.433m 
(2015: £2.285m). Operating profit before 
acquisition related items and one–off adjustments 
increased by 3% to £1.463m (2015: £1.424m) 
and pre-tax profits before acquisition related 
items and one–off adjustments also increased 
by 3% to £1.458m (2015: £1.416m). 
Operating profit for the year was £0.412m 
(2015: £1.108m) and profit for the year was 
£0.526m (2015: £1.212m). 
Divisional Reviews
Dillistone Systems
The Dillistone Systems division is primarily 
focused on providing technology solutions to 
the executive search market via our range of 
“FileFinder” applications. This client group is 
made up of both executive search firms and 
executive search teams in major organisations. 
Dillistone Systems’ head office is in London and 
it has offices in the US, Germany and Australia. 
The Division accounts for 49% (2015: 49%) of 
the Group’s revenue and it saw revenue grow 5% 
to £4.858m (2015: £4.620m). 
The Division had a difficult time in 2015 and 
we are delighted to see it return to growth in 
2016. Our investment in product development 
led to a number of key new contract wins. We 
are delighted to report that – to the best of our 
knowledge – the largest single implementation 
on an Executive Search technology platform in 
the US in 2016 was our FileFinder Anywhere 
product. This implementation was by an existing 
client who chose to upgrade to our latest 
suite. Furthermore, we believe that the largest 
single implementation of an Executive Search 
technology platform in Europe in 2016 was also 
our FileFinder Anywhere product which was 
implemented by a firm which replaced a legacy 
tool with our technology, choosing to become a 
client for the first time. 
The business signed up over 100 new clients 
in the period, with clients switching from direct 
competitors including Bullhorn, Cluen and 
Invenias, and we believe that our product has 
now returned to a position of market leadership. 
Unfortunately, while our new business 
performance was good, the economy impacted 
on licence revenues from our existing client base, 
a large proportion of which are UK based. We 
typically enjoy additional sales from these firms 
as they grow, but in 2016 a larger proportion of 
those firms reduced licences rather than taking 
on additional seats. 
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (EBITDA) increased by 1% to 
£1.434m (2015: £1.425m). As discussed above, 
the Group reviewed its amortisation policy for 
capitalised development costs to bring it more 
into line with industry practice by writing off all 
such costs over five years rather than a range 
of five to ten years. The impact of this on the 
Dillistone division was £0.600m, increasing 
the total depreciation and amortisation charge 
to £1.229m (2015: £0.534m). Accordingly, 
operating profit fell 77% to £0.205m 
(2015: £0.891m). 
We continue to invest in the FileFinder Anywhere 
product suite, which has included the release of 
a client portal, improved reporting functionality, 
improvements in our mobile offering and 
architectural enhancements to improve both 
performance and scalability. 
Voyager Software
Voyager Software is a provider of technology 
products targeted at the entire recruitment 
landscape, from front office to back office 
and bureaus, and includes both recruitment 
management systems and pre-employment skills 
testing technology. 
In 2016, the Voyager Software division accounted 
for 51% (2015: 51%) of Group revenues. The 
Division’s revenues increased by 6% to £5.105m 
(2015: £4.831m). Segmental operating profit 
before amortisation and depreciation increased 
by 14% to £1.093m (2015: £0.956m). The 
impact of the change in amortisation policy 
for capitalised development was £0.120m, 
increasing the total depreciation and amortisation 
charge to £0.461m (2015: £0.327m). Divisional 
operating profit remained broadly unchanged at 
£0.632m (2015: £0.629m). 
2016 saw some major developments in the 
Division including:
• Development of Infinity Connect – A new 
mobile companion app for the popular Infinity 
SaaS solution, available for both iOS and 
Android devices.
• Additional functionality release in Infinity (inc. 
Infinity SaaS) for the temporary recruitment 
sector.
• Further enhanced scalability of Evolve through 
deployment on Amazon Web Services and 
implementation of Elastic Searching.
• Launch of ISV.Online - our new candidate 
skills testing platform.
The Board is confident that both Divisions have 
strong futures. 
Financial risk management
The Group’s operations expose it to a number of 
risks that include the effect of changes in interest 
rates, credit, foreign currency exchange rates and 
liquidity. The Group does not trade in financial 
instruments. Further details in relation to these 
risks are shown in note 25. 
Interest rate risk
The Group is exposed to interest rate risk 
through its floating rate borrowings and through 
its management of retained cash. The Group 
monitors its exposure to interest rate risk when 
borrowing and investing its cash resources. 
Credit risk
The Group has a large customer base in excess 
of 2,000 customers and is not dependent on a 
small number of customers. Accordingly, the 
Group does not believe it is exposed to significant 
credit risk. In addition, it only places money with 
banks with strong credit ratings. 
Exchange risk
The Group is exposed to translation and 
transaction foreign exchange risk. The Group’s 
foreign operations primarily trade in their own 
currencies, reducing the transaction risk. As a 
result the main foreign exchange transactional 
exposure arises when repatriating profits. The 
Group only seeks to remit cash when required 
in the UK and it usually has some flexibility on 
timing of such appropriations to minimise any 
exchange losses. The Group is, however, exposed 
to translation risks on net assets held. 
Liquidity risk
Although the Group has some borrowings, it 
maintains positive cash resources and has 
sufficient available funds for its operations and 
planned expansion of its existing activities. 
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
stock code: DSG
10
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   10 09/05/2017   16:37:04 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
Principal risks and uncertainties
There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could have an impact on the Group’s long term performance and cause actual results to differ 
materially from expected and historical results. The Directors seek to identify material risks and put in place policies and procedures to mitigate any 
exposure. The table of risks that follows gives details of the principal risks and the approach being taken to manage them. 
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Economic risk The recruitment industry has a reputation for being 
vulnerable to the cyclical nature of the economy. This can 
impact significantly on non-recurring revenue and to a 
lesser extent recurring revenue.
The Company operates globally and so is not reliant on 
one economy. It enjoys a high % of recurring revenues. 
Acquisitions have increased the exposure to the UK 
economy. Future acquisitions may be overseas.
In a downturn there may be a reduction in new permanent 
hires which may be replaced by temporary hires. The 
temporary recruitment market is potentially anti-cyclical. 
The Group’s products support both permanent and 
temporary hires.
New product risk All technology suppliers need to develop new products and 
applications and there is always a risk that new products 
may lead to issues. This could damage the Group’s 
reputation and result in loss of new orders and therefore 
reduce revenue growth. It could also result in claims 
against the company.
The cost and time frame for developing and releasing new 
products could be a bigger drain on resource than built into 
budgets and forecasts.
Products are tested pre-launch, and launch and 
implementation strategies developed to minimise risks. 
The Development plan is regularly reviewed by 
management and the Board.
Attrition of 
customer base
Failure to attract new customers, or the loss of existing 
customers, may have a detrimental effect on the Group’s 
ability to generate revenues.
Actively manage existing customer relationships through 
account management structures and promptly dealing with 
issues. 
The Group continues to invest in new products with new 
features being added. 
Competitor activity The market for recruitment software is extremely 
fragmented with a large number of small suppliers 
operating in all of the Group’s geographical markets. 
Very few of these suppliers have the necessary financial, 
technical and marketing resources to be able to develop 
their competitive position. However, the competition may 
intensify through consolidation or new entrants to the 
market.
Some competitors offer a broader product range enabling 
them to compete across the whole of the sector.
The businesses can easily lose market share if its products 
are not well regarded either from being “out of date” or 
“buggy”.
Some firms may try to compete on price, particularly if the 
market deteriorates. 
The Group has strong customer relationships and uses 
account management to keep in touch with clients.
The Group continues to invest in its product development 
and 2016 saw the addition of temp functionality to Infinity 
and the launch of a stand-alone browser version of FF.  
ISV Online was also launched. The Group continues to 
innovate and provide solutions to client needs.
There is a focus on fixing bugs and issues as they arise to 
ensure the user experience is good.
Pricing strategies are reviewed on a regular basis. 
The Group continues to look into developing new products 
and additional features to more readily compete. 
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
www.dillistonegroup.com 11
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   11 09/05/2017   16:37:04 25174.02    9 May 2017 11:25 AM    Proof 5
Risk Potential adverse impact Mitigation
Business continuity 
risks associated 
with information 
systems, 
operational failure, 
data security and 
cyber security risks
A failure of systems or failure of hosting facilities leading 
to loss of customer confidence in the Group being able to 
deliver their requirements.
Loss or corruption of data held on behalf of customers 
which could have a detrimental effect on their confidence 
in data security processes and could cause financial loss.
External attacks on servers could result in lost or corrupted 
data and loss of reputation.
Each division is reliant on data centres. Work ongoing  
to move data centres to the cloud through Amazon  
and Azure. 
Plans are regularly reviewed on how to improve data centre 
management as the business grows worldwide. 
Data backups occur daily and the necessary test carried 
out on a regular basis to ensure data can be restored. 
Penetration testing helps minimise the risk of attacks. 
Employee 
engagement and 
retention
Capability to meet the demands of the markets in which 
the Group operates and competes effectively with other IT 
suppliers is largely dependent on the skills, experience and 
performance of staff.
Failure to attract or retain high calibre employees could 
seriously impede future growth and present performance. 
Reliability on small group of people especially in parts of 
the business.
To retain staff the Group operates competitive remuneration 
packages.
Appraisals are carried out which also consider individual’s 
personal development.
Cross training being carried out where possible.
Ability to finance 
acquisitions and 
new development
The Group wants to grow either by acquisition or through 
development of its own products. This requires that it will 
have the ability to fund such expansion either via borrowing 
or placement, or through the availability of its own  
cash resources.
Ongoing discussions with investors and potential investors 
to build a following in Dillistone. 
Management 
capacity
Size of business means that management tends to be 
stretched and under resourced. As the business grows 
there may be insufficient support to ensure that the growth 
is effectively managed and integrated.
Investment in additional management in 2016 at Voyager 
and additional finance resource. In 2017 we anticipate a 
further strengthening of product development management 
capability.
FX The Group has substantial operations in both the UK and 
overseas. Profits are exposed to variations in exchange 
rates thereby impacting on reported profits. 
There is usually some element of natural hedge in the 
currencies, although if Sterling strengthens against all 
currencies it can have a negative impact on results.
Brexit Potential economic uncertainty could lead to a reduction in 
orders in the short to medium term, impacting adversely on 
the Group’s results.
Clearly, any changes brought about by Brexit are likely to 
be implemented over the next 2 years now that Article 50 
has been invoked, which might introduce changes to the 
UK-EU trading arrangements.
This may impact where recruiting individuals with 
European languages requirement. It may increase the time 
and difficulty in recruiting skilled employees.
‘Brexit’ has had an impact on exchange rates, which are 
already a significant risk. 
Clients usually choose best in class and already buy from 
global firms. The Group continues to monitor implications 
and is continually reviewing its products and pricing to 
ensure it stays competitive.
We deal with visa requirements for some staff already. 
Data Protection 
legislation
Ensure that all group products comply with international 
Data protection legislation and demonstrate to clients that 
they do.
Work being carried out to ensure data is secure and 
protected at appropriate levels.
Dillistone Group Plc  |  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
stock code: DSG
12
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
For the year ended 31 December 2016
Dillistone Group AR2017.indd   12 09/05/2017   16:37:04
