 Overview 
2016 has been another successful 
year for the Group, with good financial
performance and continued development
of our network of locations.
In the last couple of years, Dignity 
has witnessed some notable changes.
Firstly, the number of deaths increased
significantly in 2015 and then continued 
to remain much higher than anticipated 
in 2016, helping us deliver stronger than
expected financial performance in the 
last two years. Secondly, competition 
has continued to increase, particularly in
funerals and pre-arranged funeral plans.
These industries are unregulated which
has encouraged new entrants. We are also
seeing a number of businesses offering
digital services in the funeral market.
We are tackling these changes head on. 
We continue to seek regulation of our
markets, arguing that minimum standards
of care should apply in funeral locations
and for better regulation of pre-arranged
plans. We are also seeking to develop 
our web presence in ways to help market 
our services, but also to help the level 
of service we provide our clients. Finally, 
we are introducing new, more affordable
services that will appeal to customers we
would not normally expect to be able to
help. These efforts are the start of a multi
year journey for us and we will update our
stakeholders on how these efforts have 
helped the business, as all of these areas
represent opportunities for us given our
scale and existing standard of facilities.
Dividends
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
15.74 pence per Ordinary Share, bringing
the total dividend for the year to 23.59
pence; another increase of 10 per cent 
on the previous year .
If shareholders approve this payment 
at the Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’) 
on 8 June 2017, then it will be paid on 
30 June 2017 to members on the register 
at close of business on 19 May 2017.
Governance and the Board
As a board, we are committed to
maintaining our high standards of
corporate governance. The Board continues
to focus not only on what we deliver as a
business, but also how we deliver . Ensuring
that there is a high level of cultural integrity
embedded within the way we operate is a
key part of what we deliver as a business
and how we deliver , as is our ability to drive
sustainable performance and meaningful
stakeholder value.
The composition of the Board has been
stable, with one planned change to address
succession planning. As already announced,
Martin Pexton has left the Board and been
replaced by Mary McNamara. I would like
to thank Martin for his contribution to the
Group and I am delighted to welcome
Mary to the Board.
Our people
As in previous years we have made a
discretionary bonus payment to our
employees, this year equating to £1,200
per full time employee. We have also
decided to embed this amount in all
employees’ future pay rather than continue
to treat it as a discretionary bonus.
Therefore all employees have received 
a flat £1,200 pay increase (pro rated for
part time employees) in January 2017. 
All other things being equal, the Group
does not as a consequence anticipate
making a discretionary bonus payment 
to staff in respect of 2017’s performance. 
This salary increase applied across the
business, including managers and
Executive Directors alike.
Outlook for 2017 and beyond
The number of deaths has been higher in
2016 than the Group originally anticipated
following a significant increase in the
number of deaths in 2015. Historical data
would suggest that deaths in 2017 could
be significantly lower than 2015 and 2016.
Trading in the first few weeks of 2017 
has however continued to be strong. As a
result, the Board’s financial expectations
are unchanged for the year ahead.
The Board remains positive about the
future prospects for the Group. However ,
given the increased size of the Group 
and increasing competition in each of 
our markets the Board has revised its
medium-term target underlying EPS
growth rate to eight per cent per annum
from the current 10 per cent. As with the
previous target, this objective includes 
the benefit of the reinvestment of cash
generated by the business and the Group’s
ability to releverage its balance sheet either
to fund acquisitions or return capital 
to shareholders.
Strategic Report
From the Chairman
Dignity’s continued success is 
testament to our consistent focus 
and the dedication of our people.
See Board of Directors: 
p.40 and p.41
See Governance and structure: 
p.38 and p.39
See Report on Directors’ 
remuneration: p.50 to p.63
+4
%
Underlying earnings
per share up 4% to
119.8 pence (2015: 
114.8 pence).
15.74p
Final dividend 
of 15.74 pence,
continuing the 10%
annual growth in the
dividend per share.
Links
Dignity plc 
Annual Report & Accounts 2016 04
Peter Hindley, Chairman
Summary
• Consistent performance; a stable,
predictable, cash generative business.
• Underlying operating profit up three 
per cent.
• Dividend per share increased by 
10 per cent again.
h h
Ensuring that there is a high level 
of cultural integrity embedded 
within the way we operate is a 
key part of what we deliver as a
business and how we deliver , as 
is our ability to drive sustainable
performance and meaningful
stakeholder value.
Acting with integrity to make 
a difference
• Helping families at a very difficult time
remains our core purpose. We also aim
to support the communities in which 
we operate and we are proud of the
positive role that our operations and
people play in society every day ,
whether this is through job creation 
and promoting good business practice,
or supporting local charities and
community organisations.
“
Creating value responsibly 
Dignity_AR_FrontEnd_Master_2016 Q9 tp_Layout 1  30/03/2017  13:12  Page 7
Job Name: 66300z Dignity plc Annual Report 2016
PDF Page: 1-49 Dignity.p4.pdf
Process Plan: Single Page Merged HR
Process Plan: CyanMagentaYellowBlackPANTONE 221 C
