 Chairman’s statement
Focused on creating  
long-term value
“ Returns to shareholders remained  
a key priority for the Board.  
Cumulative dividends represent  
approximately 60% of the share  
price at the initial public offering.”
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Dear shareholders,
The Group achieved another good set of results in 2015, 
through our focus on operating efficiency and our disciplined 
approach to underwriting in competitive markets. This enabled 
us to deliver an improvement in operating profit from ongoing 
operations to £520.7 million (2014: £506.0 million). This was 
despite higher than normal claims from major weather events 
following three storms in December.
Strategy update
Our mission is to make insurance much easier and better value 
for our customers. During 2015, our business progressed on 
delivering its strategic objectives and building future capability 
in line with this mission. We recognise that the changes  
we have planned are ambitious. They require substantial 
investment to deliver a step change in our digital capability 
together with an enhancement of core systems, which 
combined will be for our customers’ benefit.
Dividends
Under our progressive dividend policy, see page 96, we aim 
to increase the dividend annually in real terms. This aim reflects 
the potential of the Company’s cash-flow generation and 
long-term earnings. We are recommending a final dividend  
of 9.2 pence per share. If approved, the total regular dividend 
of 13.8 pence per share would represent 4.5% growth on 
2014’s regular dividend (13.2 pence per share), which is 
consistent with this policy.
Earlier in 2015, the Group completed the sale of its 
International division to Mapfre, S.A. and shareholders approved 
an 11-for-12 consolidation of the Company’s shares.  
This consolidation was to maintain comparability of share  
price and earnings per share before and after the payment  
of a special interim dividend. A special interim dividend  
of 27.5 pence per share, being substantially all of the net 
proceeds from the sale, was then paid on 24 July 2015.  
In addition, the Board has resolved to pay a further special 
interim dividend of 8.8 pence per share. This takes the total 
special interim dividends for 2015 to 36.3 pence per share.
Linking remuneration to performance
The Executive Directors guided the business in achieving 
another good performance in 2015, with operating profit  
from ongoing operations ahead of our financial targets.  
The Group has also made progress on its strategic objectives, 
including improving customers’ satisfaction with the service  
they experience. The delivery of these objectives is linked  
to the Executive Directors’ 2015 annual incentive plan  
(“AIP”) awards.
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity (“RoTE”) of 
18.5% for 2015. An increase of 39.9% in the share price to  
407.5 pence at 31 December 2015, together with dividend 
payments, provided a total shareholder return (“TSR”) of  
46.9% for the year. Since the initial public offering (“IPO”),  
the Group has delivered good results each year, enabling  
the Board to declare cumulative dividends, including special 
interim dividends, equivalent to approximately 60% of the  
IPO price. The delivery of this level of return to shareholders  
is reflected in the level of awards vesting under the long-term 
incentive plan (“LTIP”). More information on awards is given  
in the letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee,  
see page 70.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 10 Leadership
Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest 
standard. It challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and management responsibilities. See page 51.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of your Board’s and its Committees’ 
performance is considered annually in effectiveness  
reviews. See page 53.
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment  
of the Group’s position and prospects. We monitor and 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. See pages 26 and 56.
Remuneration
Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation 
between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating 
Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.  
See pages 57 and 70.
Engagement
Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular 
interaction with our shareholders. Their continued support 
for our strategic aims is important. See page 57.
Solvency II
We are assessing the Group’s solvency capital requirements 
(“SCR”) using the standard formula until such time that the 
Group-wide partial internal model is approved by the Prudential 
Regulation Authority (“PRA”). At 31 December 2015, the Group 
held a capital surplus of £794.6 million above its capital 
requirements. This was equivalent to a pro forma
1
 Solvency II 
capital coverage ratio of 147.4%. Following approval, which 
is expected in mid-2016, we will disclose the recalibrated  
risk appetite range based on our Solvency II internal model 
which will take into account the sensitivities of the Group’s 
capital position on this basis. Whilst receiving internal model 
approval will remove a key uncertainty in relation to the 
Group’s capital position, the Board does not currently expect 
the recalibration of the risk appetite range to lead to a step 
change in the appropriate level of capital to be held.
Migrating IT infrastructure
The migration of our IT infrastructure away from RBS Group, 
while giving rise to many challenges, is now essentially 
complete. Your Board provided oversight of this substantial 
change. Ongoing focuses of the Board’s supervision include 
the development of future capability and the monitoring  
of risks associated with IT systems’ stability, cyber security  
and the internal control environment.
Regulation, conduct and culture
We maintain active relationships with our regulators. Your Board 
oversees the Group’s conduct risk policy and culture, which 
aim to ensure that we treat customers appropriately and  
that employees behave with integrity. We recognise that  
we have more to do to improve processes for our customers; 
however, your Board is pleased with improvements derived 
from our customer programmes. We continue to focus on this, 
as we develop new digital capabilities, core systems and  
new ways of interacting with our customers.
Board and Committee membership changes
Glyn Jones, our former Senior Independent Director (“SID”), 
stood down as a Director after the Company’s 2015 Annual 
General Meeting (“AGM”), having decided to reduce the 
number of his non-executive directorships after becoming 
Chairman of a second listed company. I wish Glyn well  
and thank him for his dedicated commitment and excellent 
contribution to the Board.
I am grateful to Andrew Palmer, an Independent Non-Executive 
Director (“NED”) and Chair of our Audit Committee, for  
having agreed to act as our SID while a search for a new  
SID was undertaken. At the same time, Priscilla Vacassin,  
NED and Chair of the Remuneration Committee, was 
appointed as a member of the Nomination Committee.  
Clare Thompson, NED and Chair of the Corporate Social 
Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee, was appointed as Chair  
of the Investment Committee, of which she was already  
a member.
On 18 January 2016, I was delighted to welcome Dr Richard 
Ward to the Board as our new SID. Your Board will benefit 
from his deep knowledge of the insurance industry and his 
experience as Chairman and NED of other firms in the sector. 
Further details about Richard are to be found on page 49.
Governance highlights
As we announced on 16 February, Priscilla Vacassin  
has decided to step down from the Board with effect from  
1 March 2016. Priscilla has made a crucial contribution  
to the Board, exercising effective stewardship of the Group’s 
executive remuneration arrangements, and I wish her every 
success for the future. Clare Thompson has agreed to act as 
interim Chair of the Remuneration Committee from 1 March.  
At the same time she will step down as Chair and member  
of the CSR Committee and the Investment Committee and  
as a member of the Board Risk Committee. Andrew Palmer  
will be appointed as Chair of the Investment Committee  
and Sebastian James as Chair of the CSR Committee with 
effect from the same date.
Employees
I would also like to thank our employees for their hard  
work and commitment this year. I am always struck by their 
positive attitudes and energy. Their pride and dedication  
to supporting our customers helped our business progress  
in 2015, and has put us in a strong position.
Michael N Biggs
Chairman
www.directlinegroup.com 11
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
