 Setting our direction
The Board is encouraged by the good progress made by the Group during 2012
This was a very important year for Direct Line Group. We 
made signiﬁcant progress in delivering the objectives set out  
in our transformation plan, whilst also substantially separating 
operations from RBS Group. In October, we successfully listed 
on the London Stock Exchange in the UK’s largest Initial Public 
Offering (“IPO”) in 2012.
It was also an important year for the Board, which I joined as 
Chairman in April. We recruited three additional independent 
Non-Executive Directors, and I am pleased to report that the 
Board was at full strength prior to the IPO.
Strategy overview and results
The strategic plan to transform Direct Line Group into  
‘Britain’s best retail general insurer’ was launched in 2010  
by our Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Paul Geddes and is now  
well established. We have made progress in many areas  
of our business including transforming our pricing and claims 
functions and improving our capital efﬁciency.
To supplement this plan, the Group announced a new set  
of targets in September 2012. These are for the Group to 
generate an overall return on tangible equity (“RoTE”) of  
15%; improve the combined operating ratio (“COR”) to  
98% in 2013; reduce the COR in Commercial to less than 
100% in 2014; and achieve gross annual cost savings of 
£100 million in 2014.
The Board is encouraged with the progress made in 2012  
as demonstrated by a pro forma RoTE of 13.4% and a COR  
for ongoing operations of 99.2%. Both outcomes show 
substantial improvement over 2011. Operating proﬁt from  
our ongoing operations was up 9.3% at £461.2 million.
IPO
On 16 October 2012, Direct Line Group listed on  
the London Stock Exchange following the IPO by  
RBS Group of 35% of the Group’s shares. The IPO  
was met with signiﬁcant investor demand and the shares  
have subsequently performed well, rising by 24% from  
the IPO price of 175 pence per share to close the year  
at 216.4 pence per share.
Chairman’s statement
 “I believe the Company has a high  
quality Board that has the expertise  
and experience to provide excellent 
support and challenge to the business.”
Mike Biggs, Chairman
8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 As a result of receiving state aid, RBS Group is required by  
the European Commission to cede control of Direct Line Group 
by the end of 2013 and to divest itself of any remaining shares 
in the Group by the end of 2014.
Governance and Board changes
The year saw a number of changes to our Board’s composition, 
which meant we were compliant with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code at the time of Admission to the Ofﬁcial  
List of the London Stock Exchange.
I joined the Board as Chairman in April and began by 
recruiting further Directors to build a Board suitable for  
the Group’s ambitions and to join the existing independent 
Non-Executive Directors, Andrew Palmer and Jane Hanson.  
I am delighted that during the course of the year a further  
three independent Non-Executive Directors joined the Board  
– Glyn Jones, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin. Glyn 
also holds the position of Senior Independent Director. Glyn, 
Clare and Priscilla bring a variety of strengths and skills from 
their previous experience and these are discussed in the 
corporate governance section.
Furthermore, RBS Group currently has two nominated directors 
on the Company’s Board, Bruce Van Saun and Mark Catton. 
RBS Group has the right to nominate up to two members of the 
Board as long as it remains a controlling shareholder of Direct 
Line Group and up to one member provided it owns between 
20% and 50% of the shares.
Dividend
The Directors have proposed a ﬁnal dividend of 8 pence  
per share. This proposal is in line with the policy set out at the 
time of the IPO. On the basis that the ﬁnal dividend represents 
two-thirds of the total annual distribution, the full-year pro forma 
dividend of 12 pence per share would represent a payout ratio 
of 55% of earnings from ongoing operations.
The Group has adopted a progressive dividend policy which 
from 2013 will aim to raise the dividend annually in real terms 
to reﬂect the cash ﬂow generation and the long-term earnings 
potential of the Group.
Relationship with RBS Group
Our ongoing relationship with RBS Group is set out in a number  
of agreements of which the Relationship Agreement and the 
Transitional Services Agreement (“TSA”) are the most important.
The Relationship Agreement sets out that, notwithstanding  
the signiﬁcant shareholding held by RBS Group, Direct Line 
Group is to carry on its business independently of RBS Group.  
The agreement ceases once RBS Group holds less than 20%  
of the shares of Direct Line Insurance Group plc (the “Company”).
Under the TSA, RBS Group continues to provide IT and certain 
other services for a transitional period of up to 36 months. 
Summary
2012 has been a year of very signiﬁcant progress for  
Direct Line Group and the Board would like to acknowledge  
the effort and commitment of every member of staff in what  
has been an extremely busy and demanding year.
Michael N Biggs, Chairman
  
For information on our corporate governance see p.52
9 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Overview
