 Chief Executive Officer’s review
Building on our success
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
The fact that our own brands 
have grown shows that 
customers like the many  
changes we have made  
in recent years. In particular,  
the success of Direct Line  
has encouraged us to keep 
innovating for our customers.
What is your view on the Group’s financial 
performance?
It was a strong year, maintaining our record of strong financial 
performance and underwriting discipline since our IPO, but 
also with an added ingredient: growth. This is particularly 
gratifying because it shows that customers really like the new 
propositions, the great value and the excellent service that our 
brands are delivering, especially Direct Line. 
The Group has hit nearly all its targets since  
its IPO four years ago. To what do you attribute  
this success?
We found the whole IPO process actually helped us get  
really clear on our strategy and plans, and motivated the 
whole team to deliver against them. In particular, the fact that 
we have now given all of our colleagues three grants of free 
shares helps everyone to care about the Company enough  
to change it. We listen to colleagues’ ideas, for example, 
through the employee representative bodies and through  
our IdeasLab scheme, and continue to invest in their training 
and development. All this has helped us to do hard things  
like reducing our costs yet at the same time increase the 
engagement of our colleagues and improve our service  
to customers. 
What do you believe will be the risks, 
opportunities and challenges in 2017?
As 2016 has shown, no one can predict the future. Everything 
from the unpredictability of the weather, combatting new types 
of fraud such as cyber attacks, the uncertainties of Brexit and 
the change to the Ogden discount rate means we all have to 
remain vigilant.  
However, as 2016 revealed, we can do well in uncertain 
times. We hold our head, know what we’re trying to achieve, 
and have experienced teams that are well prepared to tackle 
whatever the world throws at us. We also have to keep pace 
with what customers expect from technology. We expect 
profound revolution with connected cars and homes; the risks 
we cover; new sources of data; and new propositions for 
customers. That’s exciting. 
In terms of regulation, we’ve actively lobbied Government  
to make whiplash claims more efficient for customers and 
ourselves. If we reduce costs, we can be in a position to  
pass on savings to customers, so we hope the Government 
consultation will produce effective reform for the industry. 
How do you feel the Group is progressing 
towards its goal to make insurance much  
easier and better value for our customers?
The fact our brands are growing is evidence that we’re  
doing the right thing. In a market that people believed was 
commoditised and only about cheap prices, growing the 
Direct Line brand is the ultimate accolade. It shows customers 
still value great products and service too. 
Our TV advertising helps show where we believe our 
propositions differentiate us from our competitors. Our people 
have also received training on how to better understand and 
empathise with customers to help meet their needs appropriately. 
Alongside this, we have improved both the sales and claims 
processes for our customers. Improving the digital journey 
through mobile devices, allowing customers to use their 
smartphones on more aspects of their claims and enabling 
customers to amend their policies with no additional fees are 
just a few ways we’re making Direct Line much easier and 
better value for our customers.
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 12 This year saw many success stories. What were 
the highlights for you? 
Apart from the great success of Direct Line, we made good 
progress on our other brands too. Churchill equals Direct Line 
for customer recognition, and it has been great to see how the 
brand is so central to the British sense of identity. Launching a 
“Bring Back Lollipoppers” campaign for schools also linked the 
brand to improving road safety in a tangible way.
We have big ambitions for our Green Flag business, and we 
think technology will continue changing what it means to be 
good at rescue. So, we have introduced an exciting service 
called “Green Flag Alert Me”, which tells drivers what’s going 
on in their cars via an app. And alongside this, the Green Flag 
app enables people to easily let us know they have broken 
down, where they are, and track the Green Flag unit coming 
to help them. 
Direct Line for Business has also seen strong growth, with policy 
numbers rising by 6.4% over the year. We have ambitions of 
ensuring the Company can do more for businesses in the future. 
What is the Group’s opinion on driverless cars?
We have an open-minded, optimistic attitude to new car 
technology. However, there are two dangerous attitudes that I 
sometimes hear in our industry. The first is that new technology 
will remove the need for insurance because cars won’t have 
accidents at all, or that drivers will not be held responsible for 
any accidents. I think that, for now, this remains in the realms 
of science fiction. It’s not the way legislation is shaped, it’s not 
the current reality, and it won’t be for many years ahead.
However, a second and more dangerous view I hear is  
that nothing will change. We believe technology will make 
cars much safer and improve driver experiences. Usage, 
ownership, prices, and how people choose to buy cars and 
insurance will evolve. So, while I feel the market will remain 
large, what it means to be an insurer can be expected to 
change profoundly. 
I believe we are thought leaders regarding what car 
technology will mean. We talk to many groups, including  
car manufacturers and technology companies. There are  
also many strands to our work, such as developing the legal 
framework for autonomous driving, through to becoming the 
market leader for insuring safer cars. We are already giving 
customers discounts, for example, if their cars have features 
such as autonomous emergency braking. 
Reducing accidents can only be a good thing. I lost my best 
friend in an accident so I’m absolutely behind it. Technology 
might change how our business is configured. The market may 
get smaller, so we’ll need to win more of it. If we have the right 
attitude; consider all the opportunities; and remain experts at 
using data, helping our customers, and finding new partners,  
I believe we can grow our market share. 
What are your thoughts about 2016’s  
employee engagement survey “Dialogue”?
I’m delighted that our efforts on engaging and motivating our 
colleagues continue to pay off. There is a risk that engagement 
can suffer in organisations like ours that are undergoing rapid 
change, seeking to improve their efficiency and lower costs. 
We have seen quite the opposite, and the fact that 88% of  
our people complete the Dialogue survey means it represents 
all the various views across our business. 
The Dialogue approach enables over 900 teams to discuss 
how they feel about the business, what’s working well and 
tackle what’s not quite right. ‘Say it like it is’ is a core value  
of ours; whether it’s through dialogue or through talking to our 
employee representative body and other representative groups. 
This year’s survey showed that we now also have a record 
number of colleagues we can identify as “champions” – 
people who are both fully engaged and committed to the 
Group. They want to contribute to our success, something 
which I’m able to see and feel when I visit our sites and talk  
to individual teams. I believe it is our engaged colleagues 
themselves who can drive the changes and efficiency 
improvements in our business. 
What do you feel unites and defines the  
Group’s people?
We are unique in that we are small enough as a business  
that every person can make a difference, but also big enough 
that we can invest in our people and support their growth  
and progress. This investment is crucial and we have been 
developing our frontline teams, managers and professional 
technical teams to ensure that we have the best people, trained 
to the highest standards that can ‘Do the right thing’ for our 
customers, investors and other external stakeholders. 
Supporting this are internal initiatives such as our diversity 
network alliance, external schemes such as the 2016 Women 
in Finance charter, and several other associations that I am 
proud we have joined. These are all helping us to chip away 
at the ‘male, pale, stale’ image of insurance. 
Every day, I see evidence of people bringing all of themselves 
to work – I think this is because we are diverse, and value  
the individuality and the unique strengths of each person.  
This is backed up by our Dialogue results, where 90% of our 
colleagues say that they feel they can be themselves at work. 
This is important as it ensures we have the most talented  
teams and truly represent the ever changing Britain we look  
to protect. I believe this further helps our people genuinely  
care about their actions, whether that’s in the way they treat 
our customers, or how they help other parts of the Company to 
be efficient and effective. Although there is even more we can 
do in this area, diversity is something that unites and defines 
us. Not only in the conventional sense, but also through striving 
to have a powerful combination of people, with a rich diversity 
of experience and thinking.
My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support 
throughout the year. I am excited by their passion and by how 
they work tirelessly to make insurance much easier and better 
value for our customers. 
 
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
