 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 10
Chairman’s statement
Delivering on
our targets
Mike Biggs 
Chairman
on 22 September 2014. The increase in the Company’s 
market capitalisation positively reflects investor confidence in 
our business. An increase of 16.7% in the share price to 
291.3 pence across the year to 31 December 2014 together 
with dividend payments provided a total shareholder return 
(“TSR”) of 28.7% for the year.
Strategy update
We plan to enhance the way we interact with our customers 
and the ease with which their claims are handled. Your Board 
has overseen and challenged these investment programmes 
with the aim that the business delivers appropriately for our 
customers’ evolving requirements and on a financially 
acceptable basis for our shareholders.
Early in the year we carried out a strategic review of our 
International division. We concluded that a disposal would be 
likely to generate the most value to the Group. On 25 September 
2014, we announced a binding agreement with Mapfre, S.A. 
for the sale of this division for €550 million (£430.1 million
3
). 
Completion of the sale is conditional on receiving one 
outstanding regulatory approval and is currently expected to 
complete in the first quarter or failing which in the second quarter. 
Your Board believes this is a good result for all our stakeholders, 
including providing excellent value for shareholders.
We have also taken the opportunity during 2014 to review and 
rearticulate our strategy. This strategy has at its heart our mission 
to make insurance much easier and better value for customers.
In this report, I would like to consider Direct Line Insurance 
Group plc’s (the “Company”) achievements from before the 
initial public offering (“IPO”) in October 2012 to where we  
are today, including our successful separation from the Royal 
Bank of Scotland Group (“RBS Group”) in early 2014.
Before the IPO, the Board set robust and stretching financial  
and business targets for the Group. We have met, and in  
some cases, exceeded these targets. This includes delivering  
a return on tangible equity
1
 of 15%. In both 2014 and 2013, 
we achieved returns above this level, of 16.8% and 16.0% 
respectively. Your Board set an initial gross cost savings target  
of £100 million for 2014. We subsequently increased the 
ambition to deliver a total cost base
2
 of approximately £1,000 
million, which I am pleased to say management achieved in 
2014. Our Commercial division was tasked with delivering a 
combined operating ratio of less than 100%; it has successfully 
met this challenge.
Throughout this period we stated that the Group would target 
holding capital in the range of 125% and 150% of risk-based 
capital sufficient to maintain a credit rating in the ‘A’ range. It 
has consistently remained at the upper end of this range.  
Since the IPO, we have declared cumulative dividends, 
including special interim dividends, of 55.8 pence per  
share. This is equivalent to 31.9% of the IPO price.
These achievements contributed to a strong share price 
performance and supported another milestone of 2014  
with the admission of the Company into the FTSE 100  
Notes:
1. See note 1 on page 4
2. See note 4 on page 4
3. See note 2 on page 5
 “The Board is focused on 
providing robust oversight of 
Direct Line Group, including 
a substantial programme of 
investment in improving our 
customers’ experience, and 
aiming to create long-term 
value for our shareholders.” www.directlinegroup.com 11
Strategic report
Dividend and capital management
Your Board regularly reviews the level of capital held by the 
Group. Ahead of Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016, 
we currently believe that it is appropriate to maintain this at the 
upper end of the targeted risk-based capital-coverage range of 
125% to 150%. The Group’s Solvency II planning is on track.
The Board has resolved to pay an interim dividend of 8.8 pence 
per share in lieu of a final dividend. This represents an increase 
of 4.8% on the full-year regular
1
 dividend for 2013.
The Company paid a special interim dividend of 10.0  
pence per share on 12 September 2014 and on 2 March  
2015 resolved to pay a further special dividend of 4.0 pence 
per share. These dividends reflect the build up of surplus capital 
which the Board believes is appropriate to return to 
shareholders. On the completion of the sale of the International 
division, your Board currently expects to announce an additional 
return of capital, reflecting substantially all the net proceeds of 
the sale. This return of capital will be conditional on shareholders 
approving a share consolidation designed to neutralise the effect 
on the share price of the return of capital. Further details of the 
Leadership
Your Board challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and the responsibilities of management, seeking  
to ensure that decisions are of the highest standard.
 Read more on page 55
Effectiveness
Your Board’s performance is reviewed annually in an 
effectiveness review. This considers our effectiveness, 
individually, as a Board and in our Committees.
 Read more on page 57
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment of 
the Group’s position and prospects. It has overall oversight 
of the Group’s risk management and internal system  
of control.
 Read more on page 28 and 59
Remuneration
Your Board, through the Remuneration Committee, is 
responsible for the remuneration arrangements of the 
Executive Directors and senior executives.
 Read more on page 71
Engagement
Maintaining strong relationships with our shareholders is 
important to support our aims. The Board maintains regular 
dialogue with our shareholders.
 Read more on page 60
Notes:
1. The regular dividend includes the interim and final dividends, it excludes special interim dividends.
2. RBS Group retained a number of Ordinary Shares in the Company to satisfy long-term incentive plan awards granted by it to Direct Line Group management.
Our governance principles
return of capital and share consolidation will be communicated  
to shareholders in due course.
Culture
Your Board is committed to embedding a values-driven culture 
across the Group. Our values are ‘Do the right thing’, ‘Aim higher’, 
‘Work together’, ‘Take ownership’, ‘Say it like it is’ and ‘Bring all  
of yourself to work’. As stated in our Code of Business Conduct, 
the Board also requires all employees to adhere to the highest 
possible standards of professional and ethical conduct. You can 
read more about our values and code on page 50.
Our relationship with RBS Group
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold substantially all of its 
remaining shareholding in the Company
2
. Following this, and  
in line with the Relationship Agreement between the Company  
and RBS Group, Mark Catton, RBS Group’s nominated Director, 
stepped down from the Board on 7 March 2014.
Under a Transitional Services Agreement, RBS Group continues  
to provide certain services to Direct Line Group, including IT 
infrastructure. During the year, we progressed substantially in rolling 
out our new data centres with Capgemini and deploying new 
voice and desktop tools. These are key milestones to migrate our  
IT infrastructure from RBS Group systems to our own environment.
Board changes and effectiveness
There have been several changes to the composition of the  
Board and Committees during the year. As noted above, Mark 
Catton stepped down on 7 March 2014 and I would like to thank 
him for his excellent contribution to the Board and wish him well  
for the future.
Following a review of the Board’s balance of skills, knowledge 
and experience, Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive of 
Dixons Carphone plc, joined the Board on 28 August 2014  
as a Non-Executive Director. I am delighted to welcome Sebastian. 
The Board will benefit from his knowledge of customer service  
in a digital retail market.
On 30 September 2014, Sebastian was appointed as a  
member of the Remuneration Committee and the Corporate  
Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Committee. Jane Hanson retired as 
Chair of the CSR Committee but will continue as a member. Clare 
Thompson was appointed as Chair of the CSR Committee and 
retired as a member of the Remuneration Committee. My thanks  
go to Jane for her role as Chair of the CSR Committee and 
particularly for overseeing the establishment of our CSR agenda. 
You can read more about our Committees from page 61.
Summary
We are fortunate to have hardworking and talented employees. 
Their commitment to customers and pride in what they do never 
ceases to impress me. I thank every one of them for their 
contributions last year and into the next.
Michael N Biggs 
Chairman
