 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 12
Investing in the future
of our business
driven by our partnership business, reflecting changing 
distribution trends. That said, the benefits from recent pricing 
and claims initiatives allowed us to increase our competitiveness 
while keeping the retention of renewing policies at good levels.
We have also met or beaten all of the published targets  
set since the IPO. We achieved a combined operating ratio
2
 
(“COR”) of 95.0% (2013: 95.2%), which was within our 
target range of 95% to 97% for ongoing operations. This 
contributed to a return on tangible equity
3
 of 16.8%, ahead  
of our long-term target of 15.0%. Our Commercial business 
achieved a COR of 98.8%, beating its sub-100% COR target. 
Our continued focus on improving operational efficiency 
enabled us to deliver further cost reductions across the 
business, beating our cost target
4
 of £1,000 million in 2014.
During the first half of 2014 we initiated a strategic review  
of our International division. Although the review did confirm  
the division’s strong market positions, we decided to explore  
a potential disposal of these operations. In September,  
we announced a binding agreement for the sale of our 
International division to Mapfre, S.A. for total cash sale 
proceeds of €550.0 million (£430.1 million
5
). We believe  
this is a good result for all our stakeholders, as it provides 
excellent value for shareholders, while offering our customers 
and colleagues stability and opportunity.
Investing in our future
We have a growing expectation that technology will profoundly 
change many aspects of our customers’ needs, and we are 
determined to be a leader in meeting these new demands. We 
have continued to invest in our infrastructure, including work on 
the next generation of customer systems and progressing with the 
Overview of financial performance
I am pleased with our performance in 2014 and proud  
of our people’s focus and dedication. Through our efforts,  
we achieved our financial targets and progressed strongly 
towards our strategic priorities. Against the backdrop of a 
highly competitive marketplace, we maintained underwriting 
discipline, helping us to deliver a stable operating profit  
from ongoing operations
1
 of £506.0 million compared  
to 2013 (£509.9 million). However, a reduction in 
restructuring costs helped deliver an increase in profit  
before tax to £456.8 million (2013: £407.3 million).
The motor insurance market remained highly competitive  
with further premium deflation at the start of the year. Gross 
written premium trends improved during the year, increasing 
0.4% in the fourth quarter compared with 2013. We 
continued to make choices to optimise value and prioritise 
underwriting profit over volume growth, which meant gross 
written premium for the Motor division of £1,342.0 million 
reduced by 5.6% and in-force policies reduced by 2.4%, 
compared with 2013.
The home insurance market also experienced further new 
business premium deflation during 2014, with gross written 
premium of £898.6 million, 4.7% lower, as in-force policies 
reduced by 5.2%, compared with 2013. This was mainly 
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Notes:
1. See note 2 on page 4
2. See note 3 on page 4
3. See note 1 on page 4
4. See note 4 on page 4
5. See note 2 on page 5
Paul Geddes 
Chief Executive Officer
 “We have built solid 
foundations for our business 
and are continuing to invest 
in our future. As we head 
into the next phase of our 
journey, I am excited by the 
focus and energy of our 
people to deliver even  
further success.” www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report
migration of our IT systems from RBS Group. While this project  
is not complete and has been challenging, I am pleased to say 
we have made considerable headway while ensuring the new 
systems can achieve high levels of operational performance. 
We are on track to complete the migration in 2015.
Recognising that customers are transacting on the go, we  
have optimised our motor websites for smartphone and tablet 
devices. This has made it easier for customers to buy policies 
from us by significantly improving the ‘quote and buy’ customer 
journey. We have seen an 81% increase in Motor insurance 
purchased on a smartphone this year. The new systems have 
also enhanced analytics, which gives us further insight into 
customer browsing and purchasing behaviour, enabling us  
to tailor our websites to their needs.
Additionally, we have rolled out a number of initiatives that 
make it easier for customers to claim. In Home, we have 
enabled customers to upload photos and videos to help  
assess their claim.
We have also invested in our pricing abilities to ensure we 
continue providing value to customers. Through a series of 
pricing projects on Motor, we have enhanced and fine-tuned 
our trading capabilities, especially through the PCW channel. 
In telematics, we launched a new self-install product, which 
provides a robust, cheaper alternative to black-box technology. 
We are already using the data collected from the new 
products to improve our pricing sophistication when renewing 
telematics policies.
We have also refreshed the product offering of our Direct Line 
brand, which incorporates a new advertising campaign. We 
want customers to trust us to deliver on service and take the 
hassle out of claiming, while still offering great value for 
money. The new advertising is proving popular with customers 
and we have already seen a positive impact on desired key 
brand metrics. The TV advertising in particular is performing 
significantly ahead of all insurance sector benchmarks, across 
measures such as involvement and persuasion.
Alongside these improvements, we have continued working hard 
to improve our customer service across the Group. We have 
also introduced new measures to monitor customer satisfaction, 
which will help us improve our customers’ experience, as well as 
recognise and reward great service. We know we are heading 
in the right direction, but there is more we can do to meet our 
customers’ needs. This will be a key focus for us in 2015 as  
we embed additional customer initiatives.
Investing in our people
We have continued to make improvements throughout our 
organisation. Our people are driving these changes, 
simplifying processes and working as a community to deliver 
the products and services our customers expect. Our people sit 
behind our success, therefore we put great effort in recognising 
outstanding performance. The Chief Executive Awards are 
among the key initiatives. These awards identify and recognise 
the best examples of our values across the business as well as 
diversity and community involvement. Over 2,000 of our 
people were nominated for the special contributions they  
have made to the business. In recognition of the progress we 
have made, we plan to give our UK employees £400 of free 
shares, in addition to the shares that were awarded at the  
time of the IPO. This gives everyone a chance to share in  
the success of our business. 
Regulatory environment
The regulatory landscape continues to be dynamic, especially 
in the UK motor insurance market. This year, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (“FCA”), the Competition and Markets 
Authority (“CMA”) and the Ministry of Justice (“MoJ”) have 
issued further reviews and remedies.
Overall, the Group continues to support good conduct and 
proportionate reforms which will deliver better consumer 
outcomes and a level playing field across the industry.
Strategic priorities for 2015
We know that our environment is ever-changing, we must 
therefore ensure that our strategy is aligned to this evolution. 
We know our strategy supports our aspiration to be the 
leading personal and small business general insurer in the UK 
and this means making insurance much easier and better value 
for our customers. We have a set of core objectives that we 
believe will help us to deliver this ambition, read more on  
Our strategy on page 22.
Outlook
The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive 
with recent market conditions characterised by periods of 
market price deflation and of stability. Early 2015 has seen 
some additional, potentially seasonal, market pressure in  
motor and broad stability in the home market.
Against this backdrop we will continue to adopt a flexible,  
but disciplined, approach to managing the trade-off between 
margin and volumes. Meanwhile we are investing in building 
future capability and continue to identify opportunities to 
improve efficiency.
For 2015, we expect to achieve a combined operating  
ratio in the range of 94% to 96% for ongoing operations after 
normalising for claims from major weather events. The range 
reflects uncertainty surrounding claims inflation versus market 
pricing in motor.
This year, we have built solid foundations for our business and 
are continuing to invest in our future. As we head into the next 
phase of our journey, I am excited by the focus and energy of 
our people to deliver even further success. I would like to thank 
our people for always helping and supporting our customers, 
while embracing continuous change. This drive will make our 
business the best it can be.
I am also thankful for our investors’ ongoing support as we 
continue improving our business and delivering further benefits 
for customers, shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Paul Geddes 
Chief Executive Officer
  Read more about our strategy on page 16 DrivePlus gives drivers 
instant access to their 
driving data via an app
DrivePlus enables our  
customers to install the  
device themselves
Telematics encourages 
better driving
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 14 Drivers can review 
their driving straight 
after each journey
Expanding our 
customer offering
As telematics continues to 
gather pace, our expertise  
and extensive data means  
we are well positioned to  
take advantage of this  
growing market.
The launch of our telematics self-install 
product, DrivePlus Plug-in, offers 
customers a convenient and easy  
way to be rewarded for safer driving.
Note:
1. Direct Line new policies taken out by 
under 21s over the phone in 2014
56%
of under 21s now taking  
up telematics
1
 12 5 
million miles of telematics  
data collected
www.directlinegroup.com 15
