 Unlocking value
It has been a momentous year for Direct Line Group and our people have 
worked diligently to deliver good progress towards our strategic targets
Overview of ﬁnancial performance
Welcome to our ﬁrst Annual Report & Accounts as a listed 
company in our own right. I am pleased to report that we  
have made good progress against our business transformation 
plan and delivered an operating proﬁt from ongoing operations  
of £461.2 million for 2012, an increase of 9.3% compared  
to 201 1 (£421.9 million). All divisions were proﬁtable in 2012. 
This was driven by a return to underwriting proﬁt, demonstrating 
the effective use of our pricing and data, improved claims 
processes, as well as the strength of our distribution platform  
in serving our customers.
Helping our customers
As one of the leading motor and home insurers in the UK,  
our responsibility to motorists and homeowners is more than  
just processing a claim when an accident or loss has occurred. 
We consider road safety to be an important element of our  
work within the community. As such, we have developed 
partnerships with key road safety stakeholders, such as  
the charity, Brake, working with them to raise motorists’  
awareness of road safety issues.
Moving from the roads and into the home, some of our home 
insurance customers have had to endure another unprecedented 
year of rainfall and ﬂooding. Our advisers were immediately  
on the ground in heavily affected areas to help customers  
through the claims process and provide them with alternative 
accommodation where needed.
Separation from RBS Group
Following the implementation of a comprehensive programme  
of initiatives, we are now operating on a substantially stand-alone 
basis from RBS Group. These initiatives included appointing the 
Direct Line Group Board of Directors, harmonising employee 
service contracts, developing a stand-alone risk and compliance 
department, and agreeing an arm’s length TSA with RBS Group 
for residual services. We have also recently appointed Capgemini 
to support the migration of our IT as well as to design, deliver and 
run a new IT infrastructure to support the business. 
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Listing on the London Stock Exchange
In October, we successfully completed our IPO on the  
London Stock Exchange. RBS Group sold 520.8 million 
Ordinary Shares in Direct Line Group, representing 35%  
of our issued share capital, generating gross proceeds of  
£91 1 million for RBS Group. In December, Direct Line Group 
became a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
The journey so far
In the midst of tough economic and competitive conditions,  
we have delivered a clear turnaround in performance, most 
visibly a £667 million improvement in operating proﬁt from 
ongoing operations since 2010. We have maintained a focus 
on underwriting for proﬁt by methodically reducing our level  
of risk, taking stringent steps to improve our pricing capability, 
and exiting lines of business that have proven unproﬁtable.
Since the beginning of our transformation plan in 2010, we have 
taken action to improve our capital efﬁciency and to beneﬁt  
from our scale by consolidating four underwriting entities into 
one, U K Insurance Limited. We received an ‘A’ credit rating  
from Standard & Poor’s and an ‘A2’ credit rating from Moody’s, 
issued £500 million of long-term subordinated debt and prior  
to the IPO returned £1 billion in dividends to RBS Group.
As a result of these actions, we have strengthened and 
improved our business, making good progress towards 
achieving our strategic targets.
The strategic plan
With the ﬁrst part of our transformation plan – to return to  
proﬁt – complete, we have redeﬁned our strategic plan  
through ﬁve key pillars: distribution, pricing, claims, costs,  
and Commercial and International.
Distribution
We renewed existing strategic partnerships, including Nationwide 
Building Society and RBS Group, and secured new ones, notably 
Sainsbury’s Bank. We also launched our Churchill and Privilege 
motor and home products on comparethemarket.com, which 
means we have a presence on the four major UK PCWs.
Pricing
Since 2010, we have de-risked the motor portfolio and repriced 
to reﬂect the risk and cost of bodily injury claims, particularly  
with younger drivers and certain postcodes. We built capability 
through implementing a new pricing model and rating engine 
across the Motor and Home divisions, contributing to signiﬁcant 
improvements in our loss ratio performance.
 “ The ﬂotation of Direct Line Group on  
the London Stock Exchange marked  
an important milestone in our history.  
Our strong business model and 
transformation plan proved attractive  
to the market despite considerable 
economic and market headwinds.”
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
The right team to deliver the evolving customer agenda
We now have the right structure in place to help us speciﬁcally 
address our customers’ needs and to protect their interests.  
In light of the new structure of the Financial Services Authority 
(“FSA”) and the creation of the Financial Conduct Authority  
we are well placed to respond to the changing landscape  
of how businesses interact with their customers.
  
For more information see p.58
11 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
Business review: Strategic review Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review continued
Claims
We have undergone a signiﬁcant transformation in our claims 
function, including a strategic investment in a new claims system, 
ClaimCenter, which is now operational for the majority of Motor 
and Home claims. The beneﬁts are being realised through 
improved claims processes, including shorter settlement times  
for customers and improved legal case management.
Costs
The ﬁrst phase of our cost reduction programme focused on  
our operational cost base. We reduced the number of our  
sites from 32 locations to 16 and delivered 15% efﬁciency 
savings across our UK sales operations. In August 2012,  
we announced the target of gross annual cost savings of  
£100 million in 2014.
Commercial and International
We are working towards reducing our costs and improving 
operational efﬁciency in Commercial, targeting a COR  
below 100% in 2014. In International, we are leveraging  
our UK expertise in pricing and claims as well as driving 
through operational efﬁciencies to produce returns consistent  
with our strong market position as a leading direct insurer  
in both Italy and Germany.
Priorities for 2013
During 2013 we aim to make progress towards delivering  
the strategic ﬁnancial targets we set out at the time of the IPO.  
In particular we aim to deliver a 98% COR in 2013 and to 
make progress towards our £100 million gross annual cost 
savings target. 
We aim to achieve this by, for example, deploying the 
capability built in our pricing and claims functions over the  
last couple of years and, in 2013, we aim to supplement  
this by prioritising our distribution and cost initiatives. 
To enhance our distribution, we are already ﬁne-tuning our 
propositions with the implementation of new offers and pricing 
structures adapted to the evolving needs of our customers.  
We will continually monitor the business to ensure we are 
addressing the needs of our customers, the competitiveness  
of the markets in which we operate, the engagement of our 
staff and the returns expected by our shareholders.
Regulatory environment
We are operating in an industry that is preparing for  
substantial regulatory change. With the ongoing debates  
in the motor market surrounding referral and legal fees, the 
increase in whiplash claims and the implementation of the 
gender directive, we aim to be leaders through this period  
of change and lobby for reform to provide the best outcome  
for our customers and shareholders.
Outlook
The UK personal lines market remains competitive, particularly  
in the Motor division. In this environment, the Group will continue  
its strategy of disciplined underwriting that prioritises maintaining 
margin over volume. We expect to see improvements to the loss 
ratio in 2013 as investments in pricing and claims capabilities, 
together with the improved risk proﬁle of the underwriting portfolio, 
especially in Motor and Commercial, are recognised. In 2014 
we expect to have delivered the £100 million gross annual 
cost savings and we will continue to look at our expense  
base as market conditions evolve. Overall we continue to 
target a 98% COR for ongoing operations in 2013. 
Investment markets remain tough with continued low reinvestment 
yields and therefore, within our risk appetite, we are planning 
various actions intended to mitigate pressures on investment 
returns. We will continue to invest in the business with the 
objective of both sustaining our leadership position and 
meeting our 15% RoTE. 
We have made great strides since the beginning of our 
transformation journey in 2010. I am extremely grateful for  
the hard work, dedication and expertise demonstrated by  
our people, and I am excited about developing the business 
even further for the next phase of our journey.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
