 Chairman’s statement
 “The Board is encouraged by the progress  
made on the Group’s transformation plan  
and endorses management’s actions to drive 
efficiency in the current competitive markets.
 “Over the longer term, the Board believes that  
a continued focus on our strategic priorities 
should generate sustainable value.”
2013 represented another significant year for Direct Line 
Group. In the first full year of being listed on the London Stock 
Exchange, the Group achieved the 2013 combined operating 
ratio
1
 (“COR”) and cost targets set at the time of the initial 
public offering (“IPO”) in October 2012. This resulted in a 
16.0% RoTE from ongoing operations
2
, ahead of its long-term 
target. This has been achieved despite competitive market 
conditions and demonstrates the improved levels of performance 
the Group’s transformation plan is delivering.
Our shareholders have also seen a 15.3% increase in  
the share price to 249.6 pence per share in the year to  
31 December 2013. In addition, we paid shareholders 
dividends totalling 16.2 pence per share during 2013.  
As at the date of this report (25 February 2014) the share 
price is 261.0 pence.
Strategy update
During 2013, the Group has continued to focus on delivering 
the strategic plan established in 2010 to transform Direct Line 
Group into ‘Britain’s best retail general insurer’. We have 
made good progress in 2013 across each of our strategic 
priorities and have plans for further transformation in the future.
Looking to 2014, we will continue to focus on delivering for  
our customers, in particular by using technology to enhance 
customer experience. More details of this and other strategic 
priorities can be found in the Chief Executive Officer’s review.
We continue to target a RoTE from ongoing operations
2
  
of 15%. In addition, we have set specific targets for 2014, 
being a total cost base
3
 of approximately £1,000 million  
and a COR in Commercial of less than 100%. Overall,  
we currently expect a COR for the Group of between 95% 
and 97% in 2014. These assume a normal level of claims  
from weather events and large losses.
Dividend and capital management
Through our progressive dividend policy, we aim to increase 
the dividend annually in real terms. The Board is recommending 
a final dividend of 8.4 pence per share to shareholders.  
If approved, the full year regular dividend of 12.6 pence  
per share would represent a 5.0% growth on the pro forma  
full year dividend
4
 of 2012 (12.0 pence per share) and  
is in line with this policy.
Good progress
  t o w ar d s t a r g e t s
Mike Biggs, Chairman
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 14 In addition, we paid a special interim dividend of 4.0 pence 
per share in December and we are now declaring a second 
special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share. Both these 
special interim dividends relate to items in 2013 that were not 
expected at the start of the year. First, the sale of our closed  
life insurance operation, Direct Line Life Insurance Company 
Limited (the “Life business”), and secondly, better than expected 
profit from the Run-off segment and the sale of Tracker. Due to 
the one-off nature of these items, the Board believes it is 
appropriate in this instance to return this capital to shareholders.
The Board considers that the Group is currently strongly 
capitalised with a risk-based capital coverage ratio at the 
upper end of its risk-based capital coverage target range and 
an ‘A’ rating with stable outlook from its credit rating agencies.
In determining this position, the Board has considered a 
number of factors that may positively and negatively affect  
the Group’s capital position over the next 12 months. The 
Board will continue to review this position as clarity improves 
on these factors and the Group makes further progress with its 
transformation plan. More details can be found on page 42.
Relationship with RBS Group
Our ongoing relationship with RBS Group is principally set  
out in two key agreements, the Relationship and Transitional 
Services Agreements. The Relationship Agreement sets out that 
Direct Line Group is to carry on its business independently of 
RBS Group and entitles RBS Group to nominate a Director for 
appointment to the Board. The agreement will terminate once 
RBS Group holds less than 20% of Direct Line Insurance Group 
plc (the “Company”) shares. Under the Transitional Services 
Agreement, RBS Group will continue to provide IT and certain 
other services to Direct Line Group for a transitional period of 
up to 36 months following the IPO in October 2012. 
Subsequent to the IPO, RBS Group undertook two further 
placings in 2013 of 551.6 million Ordinary Shares in the 
Company. These represented 36.8% of the total share capital 
and generated additional gross proceeds of £1,135.8 million 
for RBS Group. Following the placings, RBS Group’s shareholding 
in the Company was 28.5%.
Board changes and effectiveness
Following RBS Group’s reduction in its shareholding in the 
Company to below 50%, and in accordance with the terms of 
the Relationship Agreement, Mark Catton stepped down from 
the Board on 26 April 2013. On 1 October 2013, Bruce Van 
Saun stepped down from the Board to focus on other projects 
for RBS Group and Mark Catton was reappointed. May I take 
this opportunity to thank Bruce for the insights and value he 
brought to the Board during his time as a Director. I would  
also like to extend this gratitude more generally to all of our 
Non-Executive Directors for their dedication to the Group.
The Board and its Committees undertook formal evaluations  
of their performance in 2013. The Company engaged the 
services of an external facilitator, who met with me as 
Chairman to agree the structure, scope and content of the 
evaluations. The individual Directors were subject to a review 
of their effectiveness and I have met with each Director to 
provide feedback on a one-to-one basis. Committee Chairs 
also received feedback on the performance of the Committees.
Summary
I have been very impressed by the commitment of our 
employees whenever our customers need their support. In a 
challenging year, they have remained determined to help our 
customers get back on their feet after an accident or an event 
in their lives. The Group is only as good as its people and 
everyone has contributed to this success, and I would like to 
thank employees and senior management for everything that 
has been achieved in 2013.
Michael N Biggs, Chairman
For information on our corporate 
governance see p.50
For information on our risk management 
see p.22
Notes:
1. See note 1 on page 2
2. See note 3 on page 2
3. See note 2 on page 2
4. See note 5 on page 3
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
Strategic report
