 Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 06
Chief Executive’s Review
Building larger , broader 
based businesses
This year, underlying organic revenue 
growth has again been hard won against 
a background of challenging market 
conditions across all three Sectors and 
across all geographies served. Total 
revenue grew by 15%, of which 3% 
was underlying organic growth, with 
the balance coming from acquisitions 
and translational currency benefits. 
This continues a trend over five years 
of 11% compound annual revenue 
growth, with an average of 4% p.a. 
underlying organic revenue growth. 
Adjusted operating margins this year 
were 17.2% of revenue, compared with 
a five-year average of 18.6% and as 
always there were a number of factors 
impacting the Group’s margin. Margins 
were negatively impacted again this 
year by transactional currency effects 
in the Healthcare businesses, initial 
dilution from acquired businesses and 
reduced operating leverage in a lower 
growth environment. The Group’s 
medium term target for operating 
margin, in an improved economic 
environment, remains 18–19%.
Agility and responsiveness in the 
businesses ensure close management of 
operating costs and working capital and 
deliver strong free cash flow. This year, 
free cash flow was very strong at £59.0m, 
which represented 124% of adjusted 
earnings, compared with an average 
of 96% over the last five years. The 
principal driver of the strong cash flow 
this year, was the close management 
of working capital which was managed 
back down to 16.6% of revenues by the 
year end, compared with a five-year 
average of 16–17%. In addition, free 
cash flow benefited this year from the 
sale of the Medivators product line and 
the sale of certain legacy properties. 
Growth strategy
Overall growth is accelerated from 
the underlying GDP plus levels to the 
corporate target of strong, double-digit 
growth, through carefully selected, 
value enhancing acquisitions which 
fit the business model and offer 
entry into new strategic markets. 
Acquisitions are not made just to add 
revenue and profit, but rather to bring 
into the Group successful businesses 
which have growth potential, capable 
management and a good track record of 
profitable growth and cash generation. 
As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow 
strategy, we invest in the businesses 
post-acquisition to build a firm foundation 
to allow them to move to a new level of 
growth. These acquisitions form a critical 
part of our Sector growth strategies 
and are designed to generate a pre-tax 
return on investment of at least 20% 
and hence support our Group objectives 
for return on total investment. 
Group strategy and corporate objectives
The Group’s strategy is designed to 
generate strong growth in earnings and 
shareholder value over the business 
cycle, by building larger, broader-based 
businesses in the three Group Sectors 
of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls. 
The Group’s principal corporate 
objectives are to achieve double-digit 
growth in adjusted earnings per share 
(“EPS”) over the business cycle, to 
generate total shareholder return (“TSR”) 
growth in the upper quartile of the FTSE 
250 and to deliver progressive dividend 
growth with two times dividend cover. 
This year the Group delivered 10% 
growth in adjusted EPS, with modest 
underlying organic growth boosted by 
a good contribution from acquisitions 
completed over the last 18 months and 
from translational currency benefits. TSR 
growth this year has been 36%, which 
compares with a 4% increase in the 
median and a 23% increase in the upper 
quartile TSR performance of the FTSE 
250 index (excluding Investment Trusts). 
Dividends have increased progressively 
in each of the last 17 years and this year 
the dividend has increased by 10%, 
covered 2.1 times by adjusted EPS. 
Business model
Our businesses target GDP plus levels 
of organic revenue growth over the 
business cycle. Stable and resilient 
revenue growth is achieved through 
our focus on essential products and 
services funded by customers’ operating 
rather than capital budgets and supplied 
across a range of specialised industry 
segments. By supplying essential 
solutions, not just products, we build 
strong long term relationships with our 
customers and suppliers, which support 
sustainable and attractive margins. 
Finally, we encourage an entrepreneurial 
culture in our businesses through our 
decentralised management structure 
and these essential values ensure that 
decisions are made close to the customer 
and that the businesses are agile and 
responsive to changes in the market 
and the competitive environment.
The key performance indicators 
(“KPIs”) we use to measure the success 
of the business model relate to 
recurring income and stable revenue 
growth, sustainable and attractive 
margins and strong cash flow.
“The Group’s strategy, 
consistently applied, 
delivers strong growth 
in earnings and 
shareholder value.” Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016 07
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
For more information, please visit:  
www.diplomaplc.com/investor-relations.aspx
Again we measure the success of the 
growth strategy with KPIs, the first of 
which is acquisition spend. To achieve 
the Group’s objective of strong double-
digit growth, acquisition spend at the 
level of ca.£30m p.a. is targeted. This 
year, the Group continued to benefit 
from a positive acquisition environment 
and invested ca.£33m in acquisitions, 
bringing the average over three years 
to ca.£30m p.a. The acquisitions 
completed over the last three years 
contributed 20% of 2016 revenues. 
The Group’s return on total investment 
measure is the pre-tax return on adjusted 
trading capital employed, excluding 
net cash, but including all goodwill and 
acquired intangible assets (“ROATCE”). 
This is used to measure the overall 
performance of the Group and very 
importantly, our success in creating value 
for shareholders through our acquisition 
programme. Over the last five years, 
ROATCE has comfortably exceeded the 
20% target and this year was 21.1%.
Management strength
The success of the Group is built upon 
strong, self-standing management teams 
in the operating businesses, making 
decisions close to the customer and 
agile and responsive to changes in the 
market and competitive environment. 
The Group places very high importance 
on planning the development, motivation 
and reward structures for the ca.90 
senior managers which make up 
the senior management cadre. This 
group has an average age of 47 and an 
average length of service of 11 years.
Although we place high importance on 
our decentralised organisation and the 
entrepreneurial culture this encourages, 
we also recognise that there are 
significant synergy benefits which can 
be achieved through managing clusters 
of similar businesses. Typically these 
synergies come in the form of cross-
selling and joint purchasing between 
the businesses and shared back-office 
functions in finance and administration. 
There are also best practices which can 
be shared within the clusters in areas 
such as IT and digital capabilities. 
At the beginning of this year, a formal 
Executive Management Group (“EMG”) 
was established to ensure that we 
have a strong and broad-based senior 
management team in place to support 
the next stage of the Group’s growth 
strategy. The members of the EMG 
are the senior managers responsible 
for the major business clusters and 
for certain key Group functions. The 
EMG combines individuals who have 
developed internally as well as selective 
external recruits. The EMG gives the 
senior management bench strength to 
manage a growing and broadly spread 
Group, while laying the groundwork for 
succession in key executive positions.
Strategic objectives
 Generate stable GDP plus 
organic revenue growth 
over the business cycle
 Maintain stable attractive 
margins
 Accelerate growth through 
carefully selected, value 
enhancing acquisitions
 Generate consistently 
strong cash flow to  
fund growth strategy  
and dividends
 Create value by 
consistently exceeding 
20% ROATCE
