 Investing in
  our future
Chief Executive Officer’s review
 “Our strategic progress and successful delivery 
of our targets is a direct result of the hard work 
demonstrated throughout the business. This has 
enabled us to deliver benefits to our customers 
and returns to our shareholders.”
Overview of financial performance
I am pleased that in 2013 we continued to make good 
progress with our strategic priorities and financial targets,  
while maintaining our disciplined approach to underwriting  
in a highly competitive and deflationary marketplace in the  
UK. We delivered an operating profit from ongoing operations 
of £526.5 million, an increase of 14.2% compared to  
2012 (£461.2 million); and total Group profit before  
tax of £423.9 million (2012: £249.1 million).
With a COR of 96.1% we achieved our COR target of 98% 
for 2013. This contributed to a RoTE of 16.0%, ahead of  
our long-term target of 15.0%. While our results were helped 
by higher reserve releases than expected, the momentum of 
our transformation and ‘self-help’ agenda continued to create 
benefits and opportunities. We took positive steps towards 
reducing costs across the business and improving our operating 
efficiency. Within other areas of our strategy, such as pricing 
and claims, we continued to deliver sustainable benefits for  
our customers and shareholders.
Delivering value for our customers
Our focus on improving our pricing capability and claims 
infrastructure has particularly helped us to reduce prices for  
UK motor customers. In addition, we have been exploring  
new ways in which we can innovate to achieve better 
outcomes for customers. Direct Line’s heritage is rooted in  
the revolution it unleashed by using the telephone to bypass  
the traditional high street insurance broker model and provide 
customers with more competitive products. That innovation 
gave way to the advent of PCWs, which emerged in response 
to the growing purchase of insurance via the internet.
We are on the cusp of a new era, when growing customer use 
of new technologies prompts them to seek a different experience 
from their insurer, and where nimble providers can harness 
technology to offer both competitive products and more 
personalised solutions. The strength of our data and brands, 
together with the operational and financial transformation of 
our platform, leaves us well placed to help draw the road map 
for this new age. For instance, we are piloting real-time online 
progress updates on car repairs, and we are offering telematics 
technology to give customers instant feedback on the quality  
of their driving, which can ultimately, if they drive well, improve 
road safety and save them money.
We have also been working hard to reduce customer complaints 
across the Group and for the second half of 2013 our 
complaint volumes decreased by 19% compared to the same 
period in 2012. This is a key area of focus for us. To ensure 
we are tracking how well we are responding to our customers’ 
needs, we have introduced a new key performance indicator 
to measure the volume of customer complaints across the Group.
We recognise that, while we have made improvements in  
how we interact with our customers, we have not met all of our 
aspirations to develop and differentiate our customer propositions 
and brands. We have much to do to meet the evolving needs 
of our customers, but we are rising to the challenge with 
determination and energy.
Delivering for our people
Our people continue to be the main driver behind delivering 
better outcomes for our customers. Although we have had to 
remove 3,200 roles since the start of our cost savings initiatives, 
to ensure our organisation can operate in the most cost-efficient 
manner, our consistent aim has been to treat colleagues with 
the utmost fairness and respect throughout redeployment or 
redundancy processes. As we continue to drive an agenda  
of operational and cultural change through the organisation, 
we remain committed to investing in our people, which in  
turn will help us to deliver the products and services that our 
customers value.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 16 Developing stand-alone systems
Ever since beginning our separation from RBS Group, we have 
made significant investments to design and started to build a 
stand-alone IT infrastructure capable of supporting a multi-brand, 
multi-product and multi-distribution channel business with  
18 million in-force policies. Notwithstanding the complex 
operational risk associated with this task, we aim for the 
migration to have made substantial progress by the end of 
2014. Alongside the construction of a stand-alone IT platform, 
we are continuing to develop our technological capabilities 
by investing in other systems designed to improve customer 
operations and business processes. The opening of our own, 
state-of-the-art data centres was a significant step forward  
in advancing our technology initiatives in 2013.
Regulatory environment
We have continued to operate within a highly dynamic  
and evolving regulatory landscape, particularly in the UK 
motor insurance market where over the past two years a 
number of reviews and initiatives have been announced  
by the UK Government, the Ministry of Justice (“MoJ”), the 
Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), and the Competition 
Commission (“CC”).
The Group continues to engage proactively in new or 
emerging regulatory priorities. Good conduct is integral to the 
success of our business, which is why we decided to switch 
the sale of our motor legal protection product to opt in prior  
to the publication of regulatory guidance, and why we chose 
to lay the foundations for DLG Legal Services as an alternative 
business structure, which should help shield our existing 
customers from potentially excessive third-party solicitor fees.
In December, the CC published the provisional findings of  
its ongoing investigation into the UK private motor insurance 
market. We continue to work with the CC, and have always 
said we welcome the investigation, if it results in a level 
playing field and the removal of market dysfunction, to the 
benefit of our customers and consumers more broadly.
Strategic priorities for 2014
During 2014 we aim to progress further towards delivering the 
remainder of the strategic financial targets we have set ourselves. 
In particular, we aim to deliver our target of a total cost base
1
 
of approximately £1 billion, as well as our Commercial 
business achieving a COR
2
 of less than 100%.
We will also continue to enhance our products and update  
our infrastructure to ensure we sharpen our customer experience, 
delivering what the customer has grown to expect, and doing 
so sustainably for all of our stakeholders, be they our 
customers, our people or our shareholders.
Outlook
The UK motor and home markets remain highly competitive.  
In this trading environment, we will continue to prioritise 
targeting appropriate margins, even if this is at the expense of 
premium or policy volumes. We continue to progress initiatives 
supporting our strategic priorities in order to seek to improve 
our competitive position and performance in the longer term.
For 2014, we aim to achieve a COR in the range of 95% to 
97% for ongoing operations, assuming a normal level of claims 
from weather events. Assuming underlying claims trends continue, 
a significant contribution from prior-year reserve releases is 
currently expected, albeit at a lower level than in 2013.
I would like to thank our people for the continuous hard work 
and dedication that they have demonstrated throughout the 
year. This has enabled us to continue to deliver benefits to  
our customers, shareholders, and wider stakeholders.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer
1 6.0%
11 12 13
Return on tangible 
equity
3
 (%)
(KPI)
16.0
11.5
10.0
 13.4% pro forma in 2012
4
96. 1 %
11 12 13
Combined operating 
ratio
5
 (%)
(KPI)
3. 1 ppts improvement
96.1
99.2
101.8
For more on our strategy see p.18
For more on performance rewards see our 
remuneration report on p.76
Notes:
1. See note 2 on page 2
2. This assumes a normal level of claims from weather-related  
events and large losses.
3. See note 3 on page 2
4. See note 4 on page 2
5. See note 1 on page 2
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17
Strategic report
