 Chief Executive Officer’s review
Building our  
future capability 
“ Our customers are benefiting from the many 
improvements we’ve been making including  
new propositions and enhanced customer service.  
This has resulted in more customers coming  
to our brands and renewing with us.”
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
Overview of financial performance
As we celebrate our third year as a listed company, I am 
pleased with our performance in 2015. A focus on operating 
efficiency and disciplined underwriting in competitive  
markets enabled us to deliver an improved performance. 
Operating profit from ongoing operations increased 2.9%  
to £520.7 million, despite higher than normal claims  
following the floods that hit northern parts of the UK towards 
the end of 2015. This result included prior-year reserve 
releases of £378.9 million (2014: £397.6 million) which 
were higher than expected.
Desmond, Eva and Frank storms
We recognise that events like the flooding across the North  
of England and parts of Scotland are a reminder of just  
how important it is to have the right insurer and it gives us  
the opportunity to show our customers the benefit of being 
insured by one of our brands. When the floods hit we 
immediately put our emergency response plan into action.  
We had a visible presence on the ground with a network  
of almost 200 claims advisers and loss adjustors assessing 
damage, distributing emergency payments and putting 
customers in alternative accommodation as quickly as  
possible. Following the efforts of our people, who worked 
tirelessly on the ground and on the phones to process over 
5,000 claims, the cost to our business was approximately 
£130 million, but I am very proud of the way we responded 
and supported our customers during this time.
Being a great retailer
Throughout 2015 we have focused on differentiating our 
brands and improving our propositions. Customers have 
responded well to the Direct Line brand’s new positioning  
and propositions and helped strengthen our retention rates, 
which are over 80%.
We also refreshed the Churchill brand, emphasising the 
‘depend on the dog’ strapline in new TV advertisements.  
The refresh also highlighted its protective nature, such as the 
promise to pay a claim even if our customers are hit by  
an uninsured driver.
Additionally, we have improved our trading capability. This 
boosted our competitiveness significantly, including on PCWs. 
Together, this activity has led to us improving performance,  
with Motor and Home in-force policies up 1.4% in 2015  
in our own brands.
Operating as a smart and efficient manufacturer
We know that staying efficient and flexible is key to increasing 
our competitiveness and improving our customers’ experience. 
Everyone working together to improve efficiency reduced our 
costs by 4.6% this year. Furthermore, our strategic leaders are 
spearheading a programme that will get the entire organisation 
thinking differently about how we spend our money.
We have also simplified and improved our claims services.  
For example, customers can now upload images of damage  
in their homes for assessors; track vehicle repairs on an online 
portal; and use Direct Line’s seven-day car repair service. 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2015 12 Additionally, we invested in our pricing capabilities across our 
Personal Lines and Commercial businesses. This is aimed at 
broadening our footprint and improving our competitiveness.
Leading and disrupting our marketplace
We have a strong heritage in leading and disrupting our 
marketplace, and we want to build on our strong market 
positions. We will do this by identifying and investing in market 
developments that we believe can drive future growth.
We have continued growing our telematics offering, more  
than doubling our policy numbers in 2015. Our work analysing 
data for over 400 million miles of motoring is giving us pricing 
insights, which we expect will benefit us and our customers.
Within Commercial, we have been recognised for our leading 
capabilities in eTrade and direct. To meet our customers’ 
evolving needs, we have launched Professional Indemnity 
cover for Direct Line for Business and a cyber insurance 
product through NIG.
We believe we are making great progress, but know we  
have more to do to stay at the front of our markets.
Investing in data and technology
Consumers are surrounded by emerging technologies.  
So we want to make sure our systems can support future 
developments. We have now essentially finished the migration 
of our IT systems from RBS Group. This has been a complex 
and challenging programme, and we are still working to 
improve the performance of our IT systems across the board.  
At the same time, we are building the next generation of 
systems that can help us interact with our customers in a 
digitally efficient way. Furthermore, like businesses worldwide, 
we are increasing our focus on cyber security.
Developing our culture and capability
Our people continue to be a foundation of our business.  
They have been instrumental in delivering the changes we 
needed to realise our goals. In 2014, to mark three years 
since our IPO and recognise their dedication, we told our 
employees that they would receive free shares, on top of the 
shares they received at the time of the IPO. In view of our 
performance in 2015, we made a further award of around 
£250 of free shares to all eligible employees. We are  
pleased that overall our people are engaged in developing 
our business and can share in its success.
Our latest total engagement levels have risen to 60%,  
which is a 15 percentage points rise compared to 2014.  
We have a series of action plans evolving, so we will  
continue gathering feedback from our people to ensure  
we are focusing on areas where we need to improve.
We have also invested in training and developing our 
customer-facing employees, helping them interact with 
customers in a new and refreshing way. This is delivering  
good results and resonating well with our customers.  
Our satisfaction rating tool, MyCustomer, has shown  
an improvement of 23% and our Net Promoter Score  
for the Direct Line brand has increased by 7.5 points,  
a good reflection of this success.
Our people are working hard and providing benefits for  
our business and customers. We have continued recognising their 
outstanding achievements through our Chief Executive Awards.
We also introduced a new initiative which rewards employees 
for proposing ideas that reduce Group costs or make insurance 
easier for customers. This has generated excitement throughout 
the organisation and, to date, we have received over  
4,000 entries.
Strategic priorities for 2016
Following the rearticulation of our strategy in 2015, many  
of our 2016 priorities build on initiatives begun in 2015. 
Improving customer experience remains key, with a focus  
on cross channel distribution, while reducing complaints and 
improving the customer renewal process. We will continue  
to strive to improve operating efficiency.
Outlook
Our markets remained highly competitive during 2015 and  
in early 2016. While premium rates in the motor market  
have increased, this should be viewed in the context of rising 
claims costs and higher levels of insurance premium tax (”IPT”).  
The home market experienced premium deflation in 2015 
overall, although underlying market pricing was broadly stable 
towards the end of 2015 as IPT increases were reflected. 
Overall, the increase in IPT has seen shopping in the market 
increase modestly. The rescue and commercial markets also 
experienced increased competitor activity during the year.
Against this backdrop, we continue to adopt a disciplined 
approach to managing the trade-off between margin and 
volumes, whilst continuing to seek opportunities to improve 
efficiency. We aim to reduce total costs in absolute terms in 
2016 compared to 2015. The rate of reduction is expected  
to be lower in 2016 than in 2015 due in part to the cost  
of the Flood Re levy. Meanwhile, we are continuing  
to invest in building future capability.
For 2016, we expect to achieve a COR in the range of  
93% to 95% for ongoing operations, assuming a normal 
annual level of claims from major weather events.
My thanks go to our people for their hard work and support 
throughout the year. I am excited by their passion and 
dedication, and by how everyone works tirelessly to make 
insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
Paul Geddes
Chief Executive Officer
www.directlinegroup.com 13
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
