 Chairman’s statement
Focused on creating  
long-term value
Mike Biggs
Chairman
Returns to our shareholders 
remain a key focus in this 
challenging market 
environment. Cumulative 
dividends represent 
approximately 72% of  
the share price at the initial 
public offering.
Dear shareholders,
In 2016, the Group delivered profit before tax of £353.0 
million (2015: £507.5 million). Before the reduction in the 
Ogden discount rate to minus 0.75%, profit before tax was 
£570.3 million. We achieved this resilient result through our 
continued focus on the value, service and brand propositions 
offered to our customers, on operating efficiency and on 
underwriting discipline in competitive markets. 
Strategy
The Group’s mission is to make insurance much easier and 
better value for our customers. The Board’s role is to support 
and challenge the Group’s management to develop and 
execute a strategy which is aligned with this mission, and 
positions the business to take advantage of changes in 
technology affecting vehicles, homes and how our customers 
communicate with us, as well as delivering operating 
efficiencies and targeting sustainable income streams.  
The effective execution of our strategy requires a substantial 
and continuing change agenda to improve our core systems, 
digital offering and the agility of the organisation. 
Dividends
We aim to increase the dividend annually in real terms, under 
our progressive dividend policy (see page 110). This aim 
reflects the potential of the Company’s cash-flow generation 
and long-term earnings. We are recommending a final regular 
dividend of 9.7 pence per share. If approved, the total regular 
dividend of 14.6 pence per share will represent 5.8% growth 
on 2015’s regular dividend (13.8 pence per share), which is 
consistent with this policy.
In addition, we paid a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence 
per share in September 2016. The Board’s ability to return  
a dividend to shareholders is against the backdrop of a 
challenging economic environment following the UK’s EU 
membership referendum and the recent reduction in the  
Ogden discount rate. Whilst the day-to-day operations remain 
unaffected, the Group continues to monitor the consequences 
of the devaluation of Sterling, inflation, uncertain financial 
markets and the Ogden discount rate reduction.
Linking remuneration to performance
We remain committed to ensuring that executive pay is  
aligned with the Company’s strategy of delivering long-term 
shareholder value. 
The Group achieved a return on tangible equity (“RoTE”)  
of 14.2% for 2016. However, a decrease of 9.4%  
(2015: an increase of 39.9%) in the share price over the  
year to 369.4 pence (2015: 407.5 pence) at 31 December 
2016, together with dividend payments, provided a total 
shareholder return (“TSR”) of minus 1% for the year (2015: 
46.9%), which is reflected in the long-term incentive plan 
(“LTIP”) outcome for 2016. This follows three consecutive years 
of outperformance versus the benchmark (FTSE 350 excluding 
Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2016 10 Leadership
Your Board seeks to ensure that decisions are of the highest 
standard. It challenges strategic proposals, performance 
delivery and management responsibilities. See page 53.
Effectiveness
The effectiveness of your Board’s and its Committees’ 
performance is considered annually in an effectiveness 
review. See page 59.
Accountability
Your Board provides shareholders with an assessment  
of the Group’s position and prospects. We monitor and 
review the effectiveness of the Group’s risk management 
and internal control systems. See pages 26 and 61.
Remuneration
Your Remuneration Committee ensures a close correlation 
between creating value for shareholders, and remunerating 
Executive Directors and senior executives appropriately.  
See pages 63 and 82.
Relationships with shareholders
Your Board maintains strong relationships and regular 
interaction with our shareholders. Their continued support 
for our strategic aims is important. See page 63.
investment trusts) meaning that shareholders, since the initial 
public offering in 2012 (“IPO”), have received a TSR of 188% 
compared to the FTSE350 (excluding investment trusts) of 48%. 
Since the IPO, the Group has delivered good results each 
year, enabling the Board to declare cumulative dividends, 
including special interim dividends, equivalent to 
approximately 72% of the IPO share price.
The Remuneration Committee has consulted our major 
shareholders and other stakeholders, on our proposed  
Directors‘ remuneration policy on which shareholders will  
be given the opportunity to vote at the forthcoming AGM. 
More information on awards and our proposed Directors’ 
remuneration policy is provided in the letter from the Chair  
of the Remuneration Committee on page 82.
Solvency II
In June 2016, the Group received approval from the PRA  
for the use of a Group PIM to calculate its solvency capital 
requirements (“SCR”). At 31 December 2016, the Group  
held a capital surplus of approximately £0.92 billion above  
its SCR. This was equivalent to a Solvency II capital coverage 
ratio of 165%, post-dividend and taking into account the 
impact of the new Ogden discount rate. The Board considers 
the appropriate Group risk appetite range to be 140% to 
180% of its SCR, which should enable the Group to meet  
its operational, regulatory and rating agency requirements.
IT Infrastructure
The Group has been making positive changes to its IT 
infrastructure, including working towards the implementation 
and integration of major IT systems which is inherently complex 
and challenging. The Board’s ongoing areas of focus include 
developing future capability, and continuing to monitor risks 
associated with IT systems’ stability, cyber security, and the 
internal control environment.
Regulation, conduct and culture
We maintain active relationships with our regulators through 
constructive two way dialogue. Your Board promotes the 
Group’s culture and oversees the Group’s conduct policy, 
which aims to ensure that we achieve good customer outcomes 
and that our employees behave with integrity. We also have  
a Code of Business Conduct which sets out standards that  
our employees are required to observe. We recognise that 
opportunities always exist to improve the services offered to  
our customers; and your Board has encouraged a range of 
customer experience initiatives which are designed to deliver 
increased levels of customer satisfaction.
Board and Committee membership changes
Succession planning remains a key area of focus for the 
Board. In January 2016, Dr Richard Ward was appointed as 
our Senior Independent Director. Following Priscilla Vacassin’s 
retirement from the Board in March 2016, a number of 
changes were made to the chairmanship and membership  
of the Board’s Committees. 
On 1 February 2017, I was delighted to welcome  
Danuta Gray as a Non-Executive Director and Mike Holliday-
Williams as an Executive Director to the Board. Danuta brings 
executive and non-executive experience from her previous  
roles in a number of sectors, including financial services. 
Mike’s appointment reflects the importance of the Personal  
Lines business to the Group. Your Board will benefit from  
closer interaction with the Personal Lines business and from  
the expertise that Mike will bring to the Board. My introduction 
to the Corporate Governance report and the Nomination 
Committee report provide further information on these changes.
I would like to thank the entire Board for their significant 
contribution, commitment and service; and look forward to 
working with them in 2017 as the Group continues to build  
on its strategic priorities.
Employees
I would also like to thank our employees for their hard work, 
initiative and commitment to our mission. Their positive energy 
and dedication in supporting our customers helped our 
business progress in 2016, and has put us in a strong position 
for the future.
Michael N Biggs
Chairman
www.directlinegroup.com 11
Governance highlights
Strategic report Governance Financial statements
