 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
5 
As we reach the end of our first full  
year as a merged company, I am very 
pleased to be reporting such a strong 
performance. It has been a very good  
year for the Group, with many great 
achievements against a backdrop, not 
only of industry change, but also the 
execution of our merger. This year saw  
us sailing in potentially squally waters  
but we have, thankfully, successfully 
navigated them. 
Dixons Carphone has had a strong year financially; Group  
like-for-like revenues were up 5% over the year, with growth  
in almost every business in the Group leading to a 17% 
increase in Group Headline pro forma PBT from £381 million  
to £447 million, towards the higher end of the guidance we 
gave, resulting in an increase in Headline pro forma basic  
EPS from 25.5p to 29.3p.  
Operationally, we have also made excellent progress, with 
improvements in customer propositions in all markets as well 
as a number of systems and infrastructure investments to 
improve efficiency. Our customers have continued to respond 
very well to our continued improvements in service, and we 
end the year with our customer satisfaction and Net Promoter 
Scores at all-time highs. I am very pleased to see that we have 
also increased our colleague engagement scores across the 
Group – not a trivial achievement when so much change is 
happening across the business.  
Our business in the UK & Ireland enjoyed an excellent year, 
with like-for-like revenues up 6% over the year and Headline 
pro forma EBIT grew by 20% to £365 million. This sales growth 
was driven in large part by market share gains in our mobile 
phone business in the UK coupled with solid growth  
in electricals. This has been underpinned by solid cost control 
across the business.  
Our integration has now been largely, and successfully, 
completed with regard to people and physical infrastructure, 
and we now are a single, fully integrated business with one 
head office, one repair centre and one warehouse, and an 
organisational structure that suits the size and scale of the 
business across the UK & Ireland. We have plenty of work to 
do on our systems integration, but we are taking this nice and 
steady with significant changes to our merchandise planning 
systems and customer databases planned for this year as  
part of a programme that we expect to take – all in – four  
or five years. 
We continue to be very focused on price competitiveness and 
have further improved this so that we are now at parity or 
better versus our most aggressive pure-play competitors on 
pretty much all of our products, all of the time. We released  
a free app ‘Compare Prices’ that allows customers to check 
this for themselves, and we encourage our colleagues in store 
to reassure customers about market prices as part of the  
sales journey. As a result we believe that we are successfully 
addressing the phenomenon of ‘showrooming’ where 
customers seek our support and advice before buying, more 
cheaply, elsewhere.  
In January, we announced a plan to complete our estate of  
3-in-1 stores in the UK – which house a fully-fledged Carphone 
Warehouse proposition – within all of our CurrysPCWorld 
stores. We are also taking the opportunity to roll out the best 
new ideas that we have been developing in our newer stores. 
Our colleagues really like working in these refurbished stores, 
and our customers seem to very much enjoy shopping in them. 
We currently have 233 3-in-1 stores and we are rolling out the 
remainder at an average rate of three per week so that we can 
be finished by the time we focus on Christmas. This will mean 
that customers from Inverness to Penzance will have the same 
experience of our shops and all of our stores will be up to date, 
lively and in good condition. 
iD mobile operations in the UK & Ireland were launched in  
May 2015. This was enabled by an innovative IT platform and 
with a particular focus on personalising plans with flexible 
tariffs and introducing shared data. iD has been very positively 
received and I am delighted that active customer numbers 
have now passed 335,000. iD allows us to find solutions for 
customers for whom the traditional networks are not quite right 
and is another invaluable arrow in our quiver when talking to 
people about their mobile needs. 
Multi-play is a real area of focus for us this year and, following 
a successful trial earlier in the year, we launched our offer to 
help our customers with all of their connectivity needs, initially 
focusing on broadband. This offer is enhanced by our 
acquisition of Simplifydigital, the UK’s largest broadband, TV 
and home phone switching business. We are now really the 
only place where a customer can compare, discuss, choose 
and switch – from a wide choice of national providers – the 
broadband and TV package that is perfect for them, bringing 
the expertise we have in mobile connectivity to this wider 
canvas. It is early days, but the response from customers  
has been very encouraging so far. 
Strategic Report
Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   5 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s Statement 
 
6 
In addition there have been a raft of significant improvements 
that we have made this year including: launching our new  
e-commerce web platform for Carphone Warehouse; 
dramatically extending the range of white goods that we can 
ship next day; and rolling out our ‘own the kitchen’ small 
domestic appliance layouts with much more life, colour and 
interest into the majority of our larger stores and much more.  
It is heartening to see the power of our UK business being 
used by an excellent team to generate real differences for our 
customers, and very heartening to see us all reap the rewards 
for their clarity of thinking and energy. 
We have done a great deal of work on our in-home and 
consumer services business, Knowhow, and we will launch  
a pilot of a new, highly digitally enabled and wide ranging 
proposition in Leeds later this year with a view to having a 
rebranded, nationwide launch in the New Year. We believe very 
passionately that customers will increasingly want somebody 
to take responsibility for keeping the dozens of devices and 
appliances in their homes working, always on and upgraded 
and that we are uniquely placed to do that cost-effectively  
and well. 
Our Nordics business had a good year with like-for-like 
revenues up 4% over the year and 9% in the fourth quarter 
and all-time record profitability in local currency. We have, 
however, seen a further erosion in the Norwegian Krone versus 
Sterling and this has meant that our Sterling-reported profits 
are down somewhat with Headline pro forma EBIT reducing by 
£7 million to £79 million. Over the last two years the Krone has 
devalued significantly and, since virtually all of our goods are 
imported, this has created some commercial challenges. We 
have used this change to bring our prices in line with our pure-
play competitors, something that we have already done in the 
UK & Ireland and this has, I believe, been a cause of the very 
strong growth in our sales.  
The Nordics have also seen some really encouraging 
operational developments over the year. We acquired and 
successfully integrated InfoCare, the largest repair company  
in the region, which gives us a base upon which to build our 
services and repair proposition. A major project to extend our 
automated small box warehouse at Jönköping in Sweden  
– and create the most modern automated small-box 
distribution centre in Europe – is also well on track. We have 
integrated the Phone House business in Sweden, merging 
head offices and contact centres, closing 26 stores and  
co-branding all remaining stores. In Norway we have 
rebranded our Elkjøp Express stores to Elkjøp Phonehouse.  
In both Sweden and Norway, these co-branded stores are  
performing well.  
Our Southern European business had a good year in the face 
of significant political and economic turbulence – most notably, 
of course, in Greece, and I am pleased that the Southern 
Europe business has reported a 4% rise in like-for-like 
revenues over the year with Headline pro forma EBIT growing 
from £15 million to £17 million.  
Our Greek business has increased profitability in 2015/16.  
To have achieved this against this year’s backdrop is no mean 
feat and is, of course, down to the efforts of our colleagues in 
the region. In Greece, despite the mounting economic crisis, 
our teams consistently demonstrated innovative thinking, 
emotional resilience, strong management and an 
entrepreneurial spirit. This meant that Kotsovolos was able to 
gain significant market share. I said last year that the situation 
in Greece may end up proving the aphorism that all crises lead 
to opportunity and I am delighted that this remarkable team 
has proved this to be correct so far.  
In Spain, we have continued to move to a more flexible 
franchise approach, and to pivot the model to offer multi-play, 
sim-only and handset only, as well as a host of additional 
services while successfully retaining our market share. Here, 
again, the market has much change happening with M&A 
activity and an evolving business model requiring us to be 
nimble if we are to retain and grow our profitability. The Phone 
House team have responded magnificently to these challenges 
in the best traditions of entrepreneurship that is at the heart of  
the team. 
I am also particularly excited to be updating you on some 
terrific progress from our Connected World Services and 
Knowhow businesses. While still relatively new areas of the 
Group and in the investment stage, I see huge potential and  
a strong pipeline of activity. 
The joint venture between our Connected World Services 
business and Sprint continues to go very well and, following a 
very successful trial, in January we signed a joint venture (‘JV’) 
to open up to 500 stores with Sprint in the US. The Sprint JV 
has had very encouraging results so far but, as always, there’s 
no room for complacency and we are focused on developing 
the opportunity further.  
We have signed a new and separate software agreement with 
Sprint and will now be rolling out our market-leading software 
platform, honeyBee, across their entire estate. We also have a 
fast-growing pipeline of promising discussions with companies 
in a number of different segments and territories about how 
honeyBee can help them. 
Our support and services business also had a good year. The 
integration of our distribution and repair centre to one site in 
Newark means we are perfectly positioned to take advantage 
of the opportunities in insurance support and reverse logistics 
services. Our clients are increasingly asking us for help and 
support throughout a product’s lifecycle, from choosing the 
right product at the outset through to installation, connection, 
and repair. Behind our end-to-end service operation we have  
a comprehensive – and unique – infrastructure, including 
technical support, delivery, installation, repair and recycling. 
This was rewarded this year as we retained our contract 
through the re-bid process to manage RBS’s mobile phone 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   6 11/07/2016   18:34  Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16
Strategic Report
 
7 
insurance and won a contract to undertake a similar activity  
for EE making us the second largest provider of mobile phone 
insurance in the UK. Our infrastructure advantages mean that 
we are able to win these contracts profitably while still 
representing very good value to our partners. 
We have achieved a great deal this year and are very pleased 
to be ending the year in such a strong position. That said, as 
ever, we are focused on delivering even more next year and we 
know that, in fully mature markets, this means fighting for each 
and every customer, each and every day.  
Finally, the nation has spoken and we are to exit the EU in due 
course. Our view is that, as the strongest player in our market 
and despite the volatility that is the inevitable consequence of 
such change, we may be able to find significant opportunities 
for additional growth and additional market share. As you can 
imagine, we have been giving some thought to this possibility 
and we believe that, by acting decisively and intelligently, we 
can further consolidate our position as the leader in our market. 
My thanks go to everyone in our 42,000-strong team of 
employees in 11 countries for making the successes of the 
past year possible through impressive levels of industry and 
creativity. I am constantly amazed and delighted by the 
passion and commitment of the men and women who make 
up the Dixons Carphone family, and am very proud to work 
alongside them. 
 
 
Sebastian James 
Group Chief Executive 
28 June 2016 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   7 11/07/2016   18:34
