 Accounts 2015/16 
Chairman’s Statement 
4 
It has been a very good year for Dixons 
Carphone and I am delighted that we 
have been able to achieve a strong 
financial performance at the same time  
as making excellent operational progress 
across the Group. The Board is therefore 
pleased to recommend a final dividend  
of 6.50p per share to be paid on  
23 September 2016. 
Over the past year we have largely completed the process  
of integration and it has been a source of real pleasure for me  
to see the progress we have made so powerfully validating  
our reasons for bringing the businesses together. We have 
increased sales and gained market share in just about every 
category, business and territory as well as reducing costs as 
a result of the Merger. I am also particularly proud that our 
customer satisfaction is at a record high across the board.  
Moreover, we have made important strategic decisions since 
our merger, developing our proposition and discovering new 
opportunities. Our strategy of creating exciting new 3-in-1 
stores with all our brands under one roof is being rolled out at 
pace across the UK & Ireland and I have been impressed by 
the positive reaction from both colleagues and customers. 
Complementary acquisitions have supported areas where  
we see a real opportunity to develop the business. Multi-play 
is a key area of focus and our acquisition of Simplifydigital – 
the UK’s leading broadband, TV and home phone switching 
business – helps us offer customers a fully-developed  
multi-play proposition at a time when customers are looking  
for independent advice across all their technology, 
connectivity, media content and service needs. Similarly, our 
acquisition of InfoCare in Norway makes us, at a stroke, the 
leading repair operation in the Nordics. 
Our Connected World Services business looks more and more 
exciting with a very strong pipeline of global clients who are 
interested in using the software and intellectual property 
predominantly built up over 25 years in our mobile business  
to improve their own. Our Sprint joint venture has had a very 
good start and we are now well into the second phase,  
with three to four new stores opening every week in key  
US locations.  
The telecommunications markets are undergoing a period  
of immense change and it is exciting to be serving customers 
in these turbulent times. We have already seen some 
consolidation in our markets and the press is rife with 
speculation about the future structure of the UK telco market. 
Against this backdrop, and following the result of the 
referendum on the UK’s membership of the EU, I remind the 
team every day: we are successful because we add value both 
to our customers – by being the one place where people can 
get choice and impartial advice – and to our network partners, 
by telling their stories powerfully. While we continue to do 
these things, I have no doubt that we will continue to win, no 
matter how our market shifts in the background.  
I would like to take this opportunity to express my gratitude to 
Roger Taylor and John Gildersleeve. Roger and John stepped 
down from the Board at the end of 2015 having made very 
significant contributions to the Group over many years and I 
would like to thank them most sincerely. I am also pleased to 
welcome two highly experienced and talented new members in 
Lord Livingston and Tony DeNunzio. 
Last, and by no means least, on behalf of the Board and our 
shareholders, I would like to thank each and every one of my 
colleagues at Dixons Carphone. It goes without saying that  
we would not have delivered this extraordinary year without 
you, and our future is all the brighter for your hard work  
and dedication. 
Sir Charles Dunstone  
Chairman 
28 June 2016 
Strategic Report
 Dixons Carphone plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015/16 
00_DC 2016 Annual Report.pdf   4 11/07/2016   18:34
