 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 04
I am very proud that the Group has produced 
another excellent set of results with record sales 
and profits. We continue to deliver as one of the 
leading franchises across the Domino’s network 
worldwide and we are proud of our achievement 
as the number one pizza company in the UK 
and Republic of Ireland. We are in a strong 
position to build for the future.
In the UK and ROI, our success in 2016 is once again rooted in 
revenue-driven profit growth based on continued investment in 
e-commerce initiatives and record levels of new store openings, 
underpinned by strong franchisee profitability. 
I am encouraged by the signs of progress we are seeing in Switzerland. 
Total sales were up 21.1% (2015: 18.4%) with like-for-like sales in local 
currency up 5.8% (2015: 5.4%).
Towards the beginning of the year, we invested in a strategic partnership 
with Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Limited in order to acquire Joey’s Pizza, 
Germany’s largest pizza delivery chain. This has given us the opportunity 
to participate in a larger scale business in this market. I am very pleased 
with the success of the conversion of Joey’s Pizza stores into Domino’s stores.
During the year, we took a strategic stake in Domino’s in Iceland, 
Norway and Sweden. We are expanding through local partnerships with 
strong local Domino’s businesses, which combine their local knowledge 
with DPG’s expertise in franchising, e-commerce and supply chain.
 o System sales increased by 14.5% 
to £1,004.2m (2015: £877.2m)
 o Underlying operating profit of £86.2m, 
up 17.8% (2015: £73.2m) 
 o Basic earnings per share up 10.3% 
to 13.1p (2015: 11.9p
1
)
 o Final dividend increased by 14.8% to 
4.5p per share (2015: 3.9p) bringing the 
total dividend for the year to 8p per 
share, up 15.6% (2015: 6.9p
1
)
1  2015 has been adjusted for the 3 for 1 sub-division of shares 
effective on 27 June 2016.
SUMMARY
ANOTHER YEAR 
OF EXCELLENT 
PROGRESS
Chairman’s statement Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 05
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
The Group’s business model continues to be highly cash generative 
and will allow us to invest in the future growth strategy of the business, 
to invest in operating assets and to support the capital returns policy.
Dividend
The Board recommends a final dividend for 2016 of 4.5p 
(2015: 3.9p) per share, being a 14.8% increase on the final dividend 
for the prior year. Together with the interim dividend of 3.5p per share 
paid on 2 September 2016, the total dividend for the year will be 8.0p 
per share, representing an increase of 15.6% on the dividend paid for 
the prior year (2015: 6.9p). The full year dividend is 1.7 times covered by 
underlying profits after tax (2015: 1.7 times). Subject to receiving shareholder 
approval at the Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017, the final 
dividend will be paid on 25 April 2017 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 17 March 2017.
Our people
Our business relies on a network of entrepreneurial, diligent and driven 
franchisees who serve our customers day and night. Every year, I continue 
to be amazed by their ability to improve our business, for our mutual 
benefit. This year is no exception and I would like to place on record 
my thanks for all of their hard work and commitment, which continues 
to be the lifeblood of the business. Their willingness to invest in new 
stores and to explore other means of growth gives the Board continued 
confidence for the future.
Our franchisees in turn depend on their employees, and I want to thank 
them for their ongoing commitment and contribution, helping to keep us 
as the number one pizza company in every neighbourhood in which we 
operate, despite ever increasing competitive pressures.
Board changes 
In my report last year, I noted that we were seeking a new 
Chief Financial Officer. On 10 October 2016, Rachel Osborne joined 
the Board and was appointed as our CFO. Rachel has significant commercial 
finance experience having previously worked most recently at Vodafone 
and John Lewis Retail, in addition to other consumer-facing businesses. 
Rachel also serves as a non-executive director of HM Courts and Tribunals 
Service. I am delighted that Rachel has joined Domino’s at such an exciting 
time for the Group. I have no doubt that her extensive experience of 
financial and strategic management gained across blue-chip retailers 
will be an asset for Domino’s.
Additionally, we reported in last year’s corporate governance statement 
that we intended to appoint one of our independent non-executive Directors 
as the Senior Independent Director. I’m pleased to report that Helen Keays 
was appointed to this role on 20 April 2016.
Conclusion
In summing up, 2016 has been another year of excellent progress, 
and one in which we are well positioned for the future. I continue to be 
delighted with the momentum across the business and the entire team 
can be very proud of its efforts. Our focus is now on 2017 and I look 
forward with optimism to our continued progress in the next phase of 
the Group’s development.
Stephen Hemsley
Non-executive Chairman
8 March 2017
We are driven day in, day out by our brand purpose:
TO FEED THE POWER OF POSSIBLE ONE PIZZA AT A TIME
This inspires and motivates us on three levels:
1 
ENTREPRENEURIAL 
SPIRIT
It taps into the entrepreneurial spirit 
embodied by our franchisees. It recognises 
the opportunity the brand has afforded 
to people to pursue their own dream 
of business ownership, populating our 
Company culture with stories of “driver 
to manager to single-store franchisee 
to multi-store business owner”.
2 
DEDICATED TO 
INNOVATION
It aligns with our desire never to stand 
still and to innovate continually to improve 
our product, service, image and, increasingly, 
use of technology. Innovation is in the DNA 
of the brand, be that from the invention 
of the “spoodle”, our patented heatwave 
technology, or the development of online 
and mobile ordering platforms.
3 
KEEPING OUR 
PROMISES
It inspires us to commit relentlessly 
to delivering one pizza at a time. 
We know that downtime is precious, 
we know that money is still tight and we 
understand that delivered food cannot 
be a disappointment. We know that we 
have to deliver a hot, fresh, tasty pizza 
when we say we will.
