 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 02
Group at a glance
We aim to be the number one pizza company in each neighbourhood 
in which we operate, through a commitment to offering the best product, 
service and quality to our customers.
We continue to invest in technology with 
digital platforms delivering a number of benefits 
for our consumers and franchisees. Ease of 
ordering and accessibility to promotional offers 
continue to drive our success. We are relentless 
in our pursuit of using technology to make our 
customers’ lives that little bit easier.
We continue to innovate and in 2016 we 
launched our Italiano range of handmade 
Italian inspired pizzas. Our customers can 
be confident that we use the best possible 
ingredients and that they are buying carefully 
sourced and prepared foods without 
hydrogenated fats or artificial flavourings 
and colourings.
Product Technology
94m
PIZZAS SOLD 
IN THE YEAR
14.9m
APP DOWNLOADS
DOMINO’S DIFFERENCE
WHAT WE DO, WHERE AND WHY WE DO IT
Domino’s Pizza International Franchising Inc. (‘DPIF’) is the owner of the 
Domino’s brand across the globe. We have two Master Franchise Agreements 
in place with DPIF, which gives us exclusive rights to the markets in the 
UK, the Republic of Ireland, Switzerland, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein. 
In addition, we have associate investments in Germany, Iceland, Norway 
and Sweden. Our aim is to be the number one pizza company in every 
neighbourhood in which we operate.
We do this by making, selling and delivering pizzas and other products 
to our customers. This is either through our own corporate stores or 
through stores operated by our franchisees. In addition, we buy the 
products and make the fresh dough used in our pizzas and where we 
have franchisee stores we sell these products to the franchisee who 
then makes, sells and delivers the products.
Master 
franchise markets
 o UK
 o Republic of Ireland
 o Switzerland
Associate 
investment markets
 o Germany
 o Iceland
 o Norway 
 o Sweden Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 03
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Engagement Performance
We are driven day in, day out by our 
brand purpose “to feed the power of possible, 
one pizza at a time”. This desire to never 
stand still and push forward, be it in terms 
of store openings, technological and 
product innovation, customer service and 
the support for our franchisees, underpins 
our performance.
We take pride in the image we portray to 
customers. We invest the national advertising 
fund to help build the profile of the brand 
amongst our target audience. We have recently 
refreshed our store design to better celebrate 
the theatre of making fresh pizza. Our new store 
design reflects the freshness of the ingredients 
and provides customers with a window into the 
world of pizza making, showcasing that every 
one of our pizzas is made fresh to order.
1m
FACEBOOK 
FANS
7.5%
UK SALES 
GROWTH
HOW WE OPERATE
Supply chain
Our passion for only the finest quality ingredients ensures we continue 
to maintain an excellent relationship with our suppliers. We negotiate the 
best commercial terms and have many long-term supplier agreements 
in place. Our Supply Chain Centres continue to lead the way in relation 
to standards of excellence throughout Domino’s worldwide. We deliver 
480 loads to c.1,000 stores on average three times per week.
Franchisees
Our network of exceptional franchisees remains committed to 
promoting the Domino’s brand. Their entrepreneurial spirit and 
drive ensure our continued success on the high street. It is our 
job to support our franchisees in their efforts to run profitable 
businesses and to ensure that high brand standards are 
achieved in all stores.
1,013
TOTAL STORES
81
NEW UK STORES 
OPENED IN THE YEAR
72%
OF UK SALES 
THROUGH E-COMMERCE
77
FRANCHISEES
12.9
AVERAGE STORES 
PER FRANCHISEE
