 STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 06
Overview
2016 was another very successful year for the Group with double-digit 
system sales growth, and I am particularly pleased with the strong 
performance of new stores in the UK, where we achieved a record 
number of openings at very strong average sales per address. This is 
the result of a relentless focus on driving our digital offering through 
investment and innovation, ambitious targets for new store openings 
and a continued focus on franchisee profitability.
We had a good year in ROI, with volume growth driven by improved 
performance from digital channels and a strong economy aiding 
consumer spending. We made a strategic investment to acquire the 
largest pizza delivery chain in Germany through our associate investment. 
I am also encouraged by our continued progress in Switzerland, where 
we have generated a positive EBITDA for the first time since our acquisition. 
Our investment in the Nordics, which we announced in June, gives us 
access to over 15m people in three markets and our partnership with 
our colleagues is off to a promising start.
Our strategy remains simple and clear. We aim to be the number 
one pizza company in each neighbourhood in the countries in which 
we operate, through a commitment to offering the best product and 
service to our customers.
UK and ROI
UK
The UK business delivered a robust set of results from the 950 stores 
that were trading at the year end (2015: 869). System sales were 13.8% 
ahead, driven by strong like-for-like performance with growth of 7.5%
 
(9.8% removing the impact of split stores). Like-for-like order volumes 
were ahead by 4.5% whilst average order value grew by 3.0%, helped 
by an increased proportion of bundle deals offering value for money.
 o UK system sales up by 13.8% 
to £938.7m
 o ROI system sales up by 10.1% 
to €61.7m
 o 81 new stores in the UK
 o Group Operating Profit up by 13.5% 
to £83.0m
 o Investments in Germany, Iceland, 
Norway and Sweden of £46.8m
 o Underlying profit before tax for the 
Group up by 17.1% to £85.7m
DOUBLE-DIGIT SALES 
AND EARNINGS 
GROWTH
SUMMARY
Chief Executive Officer’s statement Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 07
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
We believe that our continued focus on the three priorities set out in 
our preliminary announcement two years ago remains fundamental to 
our success in the UK:
 o New store openings: The rate of new store openings continued 
to increase in the period and the UK opened a record 81 new stores 
in 2016; these continue to perform well, providing a foundation for 
future growth and confirming our long-term opportunity.
 o Digital: We have continued to increase investment in our digital 
offering, driving an increased number of customer visits, improved 
conversion rates and higher order values.
 o Franchisee profitability: The Group has continued to focus on 
franchisee profitability by passing on cost savings, fuelling the 
appetite for further investment.
New stores
2016 saw record store openings of 81 in the UK, bringing the total 
portfolio to 950 (2015: 869). The performance of these new stores 
has been excellent with strong penetration in the territories in which 
they have opened. These stores are operating in lower address count 
areas with a 15.4% increase in sales per address. They include both 
virgin territories and those existing areas which have been “split”, 
increasing density, improving service for customers, and raising sales 
and profitability for franchisees. 53 of the 81 stores opened were splits. 
We provide incentive packages to franchisees to encourage opening 
of stores in areas that meet our strategic requirements for the estate, 
including lower address counts and splits. Depending on the nature 
of the incentive these may be spread over the life of the lease. No stores 
were closed in 2016.
We continue to enjoy strong 
like-for-like sales growth, up 
7.5% in the UK.
2016 saw record store growth 
of 81 new stores in the UK 
and one in Switzerland
In 2016, ‘easy-order’ 
was made available on 
Facebook Messenger
Digital
The Group’s investment in e-commerce software development increased 
significantly in 2016, reflecting our continued commitment to providing 
the business, our customers and franchisees with a best-in-class digital 
platform. In the UK, online system sales now represent 72% of all delivered 
sales, up from 67% in 2015, with mobile sales accounting for 73% of 
online system sales. This will drive further growth in the UK business.
Digital channels deliver a number of benefits for both the consumer 
and our franchisees. From a consumer perspective, ordering is easier and 
promotional offers are more easily accessed. Franchisees benefit through 
store labour efficiencies and being better able to target local marketing 
campaigns, particularly through customer relationship management.
The results of this strategy are continuing to pay off, with total online 
orders in the UK 18% ahead and average order value 2.6% ahead of last 
year. Mobile sales continue to drive much of our success, with orders 
2.7% ahead and mobile order value 2.9% ahead of last year. 
14.9m customers have downloaded the app.
Despite these strong results we are striving to deliver further digital 
innovation in order to improve our customer experience even more.
In August 2016, Domino’s launched chat-bot via Facebook Messenger, 
the first app allowing us to broaden our e-commerce platform from 
ordering to customer service. 
Brand
Our brand purpose is to fuel the power of possible one pizza at a time.
The origins of this stem right back to the foundations of the brand, 
when Tom Monaghan challenged convention and set about delivering 
pizzas to customers, at a time when it was not possible to have a pizza 
delivered to your door. Innovation is in the very DNA of the brand, be that 
the invention of the spoodle (a device for applying pizza sauce quickly), 
or the revolutionary heat-wave bag, to the first forays into e-commerce 
back in 1999. We are fuelled by our desire to inspire our customers 
through our actions.
It also plays right into the heart of the service we provide to our 
customers. We recognise that Domino’s has the power to bring busy 
families together in front of the TV on a Saturday night, provide comfort 
and relaxation on a lazy Sunday or that much needed downtime during 
the busy working week. STRATEGIC REPORT
Domino’s Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 08
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
UK and ROI continued
UK continued
Brand continued
It also taps into the franchisee ownership of the business, how Domino’s can 
turn drivers into shift runners, into store managers and into entrepreneurial 
franchisees who run multi-site retail operations.
It is underpinned by our relentless commitment to uphold our promise 
to our customers to handcraft every one of our pizzas just for them and 
to give exceptional service all the time, providing delicious tasting pizza 
at great value.
Domino’s now enjoys dominant levels of awareness in the branded delivery/ 
takeaway category, and market-leading levels of customer satisfaction.
Smart deployment of the national advertising fund allows us to 
drive growth through broadcast communication that places the brand 
top of mind at key occasions, to increase saliency and relevance by 
communicating product and service benefits. Demand is then increased 
through digital performance channels with more precise targeting that 
optimises conversion to sale by customer, and is then optimised further 
through our own digital, social media and CRM tools with content that 
engages with customers.
Product
In 2016, we launched our biggest ever refresh of our menu. The Italiano 
range is a range of handmade Italian inspired pizzas, that take our signature 
fresh dough and authentic Italian ingredients like Ventricina Salami and 
Prosciutto Ham with premium toppings like Roquitto Pepper Pearls and 
fresh Rocket leaves; alongside new sides such as Italiano Garlic Bread and 
a Tomato & Mozzarella Salad, with classic Italian inspired desserts like 
Sicilian Lemon Cheesecake and Tiramisu. Since launch we have now sold 
over 2 million Italiano pizzas, and reached out to a different customer base 
generating strong repurchase rates and comments like….“The new Italiano 
We remain committed 
to high quality ingredients, 
with our dough freshly 
made at our commissaries 
Since its launch in 2016, our 
handmade Italiano range has 
sold over 2 million pizzas
We continue to innovate, 
refresh and improve our 
product range to respond to 
changing customer demand.
range is superb. My husband is not a big pizza fan but thought the 
Domino’s Verona pizza was the best pizza he’d ever had!”.
Franchisees
Our franchisees are some of the best entrepreneurs in the Domino’s 
system worldwide, and we continue to share in their success and provide 
the support and guidance to assist them in their future growth and 
ambition. The Group is committed to ensuring that they are successful, 
and in 2016 cash profitability improved year on year, primarily as a result 
of increased sales and the benign food cost environment combined with 
the DPG’s purchasing power. This has enabled the franchisees to invest 
the additional profits in labour and to deliver improved service. During the 
year, we passed on food savings in the region of £5m. DPG has agreed 
the prices of its main food costs, except for dairy, well into the first half 
of 2017 and there was a negligible impact on input prices as a result 
of the UK’s decision to leave the EU.
Supply chain
We are particularly proud of our supply chain in the UK, which is 
one of the most sophisticated and efficient across the Domino’s global 
network. Our main facility is located at West Ashland, Milton Keynes, 
with a secondary plant in the North West in Penrith and satellite bases 
in Livingston and Bristol. We have broken ground on our new facility 
in Warrington, which is due to open in early 2018. Although the supply 
chain handled record volumes in 2016, it did so whilst improving on 
already excellent service levels to stores, with delivered-on-time to 
stores measures increasing to 99.9%.
It is our commitment to franchisees that we provide them with high 
quality products at low cost. Our philosophy is based on establishing 
long-term relationships and we are able to leverage the Group’s buying 
power to secure the most competitive deals with quality suppliers.
ROI
ROI delivered a good set of results, with system sales of  
€61.7m (2015: €56.0m) in local currency, a sterling value of £50.1m 
(2015: £40.7m). In local currency, sales were ahead by 10.1%, but in 
sterling they were 23.2% ahead, reflecting the relative strength of the 
euro against sterling. We operate 47 stores across the ROI with the 
Dublin stores performing well and benefiting from the continued economic 
recovery. We will be upgrading our Supply Chain Centre capability.
Our digital channels continue to improve in ROI. Online system sales 
were 26% ahead of 2015 and now represent 49% of total system sales, 
up from 43% last year. Mobile-based growth continues to drive digital 
adoption and now accounts for 74.4% of online system sales 
(2015: 68.6%). Annual Report & Accounts 2016 Domino’s Pizza Group plc 09
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REPORT
Switzerland
We made good progress in Switzerland with strong local currency 
sales growth of 21.1% to CHF 20.6m (sterling 33.1% and £15.4m). 
Like-for-like sales were 5.8% ahead of last year in local currency, with 
the mature store portfolio significantly improving profitability. We had 
one new store opening, resulting in 16 stores at the end of 2016  
(2015: 15), all of which are under corporate ownership and operation. 
There were discernible improvements in all operational metrics at store 
level, which contributed to the better financial outcome.
Underlying operating losses for the year were £1.3m (2015: £1.3m). 
This business broke even at EBITDA, up from a loss of £0.5m in 2015. 
We remain encouraged by the improving performance of our mature 
stores, which provides a solid footprint for the future, while focusing 
management attention on accelerating the maturity curve for new 
and immature stores.
A further major contributor to the better Swiss performance has 
been the progress with online ordering. The website was relaunched in 
January 2016 and online sales grew steadily through the year, reaching 
59.9% by Q4.
Germany
The acquisition of Joey’s Pizza, the largest German pizza delivery 
business in Germany through our associate Daytona JV Limited, in 
which we hold a one-third stake, was completed on 1 February 2016. 
Contingent consideration was payable by the associate based on the 
rate at which existing franchisees signed up to become Domino’s 
franchisees. We are delighted to report that conversion has been very 
successful and consequently this was paid earlier than anticipated 
during H1 2016.
The investment has performed well and in line with plan, contributing  
£0.7m to the underlying Group profit before tax. The programme to 
convert Joey’s stores to Domino’s and subsequent rebranding have 
been a success, with all stores now converted. The Group’s share of 
these costs amounted to £3.1m and is included in non-underlying items.
Discontinued operations includes £8.1m income in respect of the 
Market Access Fee, which is the fair value of the deferred consideration 
payable by Domino’s Pizza Enterprises Ltd (‘DPE’) for the divestment 
of our German business. This becomes payable from 2017.
Nordics
On 8 June 2016, the Group acquired an interest in the Domino’s 
business in Norway, Sweden and Iceland for consideration of £24m 
payable in cash. This strategic investment means that the Group holds a 
49% interest in Iceland and a 45% interest in both Norway and Sweden 
through direct and indirect holdings. Existing management continues 
to run the business and will be responsible for executing the strategy to 
expand further in Norway and to open up the Swedish market over the 
medium term. This is an exciting opportunity for us in attractive growth 
markets and will enable us to grow the Domino’s brand further.
Profit contribution for the 7 month investment was £0.2m.
Leadership team
During the year, we promoted our Sales and Marketing Director, 
Simon Wallis, to the role of Chief Operating Officer for the UK and ROI. 
Simon has been with Domino’s for seven years, during which time he 
has made a major contribution to our success and the promotion is 
richly deserved. He is succeeded by Tony Holdway, an experienced 
multi-site marketing professional, who joined us in September 2016.
During 2017 we expect to 
open around 80 new stores 
in the UK
We also recruited a new Supply Chain Director, Peter Trundley, to replace 
Mike Botha. Peter Trundley has deep manufacturing and supply chain 
experience from roles in Masterfoods and ABF.
In addition, Robin Caley was promoted to Property & Business 
Development Director, succeeding Julia Poulson in July 2016.
Finally, Jane Franks, our long-serving HR Director, decided to step down 
after 30 years in the business. She left with our appreciation of a significant 
contribution to the Company. We were delighted to appoint Nadine Wyncoll 
as her successor. Nadine has operations and HR experience from Tesco 
and Dixons Carphone.
Our people
I would like to thank the Domino’s team for its hard work in a most 
challenging year. I also want to echo the appreciation from our Chairman 
of the franchisee community. Our success is in large measure due to its 
unrelenting efforts, pride in the brand and determination to bring its 
vision to life.
Outlook
2016 has been a record year for system sales, and also saw us entering 
into a landmark investment transaction to transform our activities in 
Germany as well as a new partnership in the Nordics. In Switzerland, 
we are seeing encouraging signs of progress with the business profitable 
at EBITDA level. The UK and ROI business continues to set sales records, 
and we sold 94m pizzas in the year, averaging over 257,000 per day. 
We are very happy with the new store opening programme, in particular 
the average sales per address of these stores. We continue to exploit the 
opportunities of new technology to the full, with online orders now being 
the source of over 71.5% of our total system sales. This has been a year 
of significant positive change. The strength of the core business and 
international investments gives us the ability to build for the future. 
During 2017 we expect to be opening around 80 new stores in the UK, 
and we are investing in additional supply chain centres to ensure we can 
supply our new long-term store target of 1,600 UK stores and 76 stores 
in ROI. We look forward to the continuing success of the Swiss, German 
and Nordics businesses.
David Wild
Chief Executive Officer
8 March 2017
