 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06
We have continued to make good 
progress with the year’s performance 
and future prospects underlined by strong 
fundamentals. Income in US dollar terms 
showed an 8.4% growth over the previous 
year. An encouraging indicator was a 15% 
increase in the number of spot ﬁ xtures 
contracted. We will beneﬁ t from our record 
time charter business that continues to go 
from strength to strength with the value of 
the forward book at year end 78% higher 
than at the same point last year. Our income 
from sale and purchase also showed healthy 
growth and income from associates and 
joint ventures was strong with ACM Shipping 
Services Limited (ACMSS) having a 
particularly good year and ACM’s share 
of their operating proﬁ t up 127%.
Spot brokerage
Spot brokerage, which involves the hire 
of a vessel for a single voyage, represented 
62% of income for the year. Income in 
US dollar terms showed a 1% growth over 
the previous year on the back of a 15% 
increase in the number of spot ﬁ xtures. 
In comparison with the previous year, 
the average value of each spot ﬁ xture is 
lower when compared with the very high 
freight rates experienced in the last quarter 
of 2005. 
Time charter
Time charter, which involves the long 
term hire of tankers, guarantees future 
revenue streams to ACM with some 
contacts extending until 2018. Time 
charter represented 28% of income 
for the year. ACM is recognised 
internationally as one of the leading 
long term chartering tanker brokers. 
52 new time charters were contracted 
during the year, with our forward book 
at year end in US dollars 78% higher 
than at the end of the previous year.
Sale and purchase
Most transactions in this area are 
done through our associated company, 
ACMSS. However, direct business 
undertaken by ACM increased by 
165% during the year, representing 
6% of income in the year.
Chief Executive’s review of the business
“ This has been a successful year for 
ACM with our continued growth, 
market expansion and proﬁ tability. 
We were delighted to join the AIM 
market with strong demand for our 
stock at the IPO. Importantly the 
Group has a strong forward order 
book, which is 78% higher than it 
was this time last year.”
_1_ACM_ar07_front.indd   6 26/07/2007   16:15:07 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07
Overseas operations
Our strategy of expanding our brokerage 
services geographically is being pursued 
through a mixture of wholly owned 
subsidiaries alongside joint ventures 
and associates. In December 2006 we 
opened an Indian office to add to our 
existing ofﬁce in Singapore. These ofﬁces 
provide support to our UK ofﬁce and to 
our clients and in due course we expect 
them to make a contribution to proﬁt 
in their own right.
Joint ventures and associates
Our 30% owned sister company, ACMSS, 
which specialises in the sale and purchase 
of new buildings, second hand tonnage 
and demolition, had an excellent year. 
Operating proﬁt rose 127% while income 
increased by 98%. It also has an increasing 
forward order book which indicates a healthy 
future. Cambridge Securities Shanghai 
representative ofﬁce, a contractual 50% 
joint venture with Cambridge Securities LLC, 
was set up a few years ago to specialise in 
Asian new building contracts. This venture 
is generating income with a number of new 
contracts having recently been signed, 
the beneﬁt of which will be felt over 
forthcoming years. 
Our joint venture with GFI Group Inc to 
conduct derivative brokerage had another 
good year. Derivatives trading is still relatively 
new in the tanker industry and there are new 
clients entering and exiting the market and 
this has a varying effect on volumes.
Membership of London Tanker Brokers’ 
Panel (LTBP)
We are very pleased that ACM became a 
member of the LTBP and Worldscale on 
30 March 2007. These two organisations 
prepare and distribute data on freight rates 
to subscribers throughout the shipping 
industry globally. LTBP is an internationally 
recognised independent and impartial 
authority which provides a variety of rate 
assessments on a fee-paying basis for 
individual oil companies, traders, tanker 
operators and other interests worldwide. 
Six of the world’s most experienced tanker 
brokers make up the Panel which provide 
current and historical rate assessments 
based on extensive experience of its 
members in the international shipping 
market. Our membership will further 
increase our status within the industry 
and will enhance the development of 
the Group.
Employees
ACM’s core asset is its staff. In order to 
attract and retain the highest calibre of 
employees the Group adopts the industry 
accepted bonus model. We believe this 
encourages and promotes all staff to help 
drive the Group forward, and alongside 
shareholders share in its success. 
Johnny Plumbe
Chief Executive
19 July 2007
highlights to be supplied
Highlights of Chief Executive’s review
  Income in US dollars up 8.4%
  Spot ﬁxtures 15% up in number
  Time charter order book up 78%
  Membership of London Tanker Brokers’ Panel 
and Worldscale
  Spot brokerage 
(62%)
 Time charter (28%)
 Demurrage (4%)
  Sale and purchase 
(6%)
Share of turnover 2007 %
_1_ACM_ar07_front.indd   7 26/07/2007   16:15:09
