 Overview
3 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
A year of great change  
for the Group
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
It is my pleasure to welcome you to 
Bonmarché’ s first Annual Report and my first 
annual statement as Chairman.
I am delighted to report on a successful year, 
with strong growth, good progress against 
our strategic objectives and a successful IPO.
Colleagues and Directors
All successes start with the people and 
I am honoured to be able to recognise the 
contribution of each and every one of our 
2,866 colleagues here. Our store, warehouse, 
buying and support colleagues form a 
fantastic team working together to delight the 
Bonmarché customer. 
Beth Butterwick has shown great leadership 
during this extremely busy and challenging 
year. Steve Alldridge led the IPO with great 
professionalism, and the other members of 
the executive did not miss a beat in improving 
the business for customers. 
I am delighted that Ishbel Macpherson and 
John Coleman joined the Board in October 
2013. They have a wealth of talent and 
experience, and in the short time since their 
appointment they have already made 
valuable contributions. Ishbel has been 
appointed the Senior Independent Director 
and chairs the Audit Committee, and John 
has been appointed Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Performance for the year
From my very first exposure to Bonmarché 
I have been impressed by the focus on our 
customers. Our store colleagues are always 
charming and ‘can do’, our buying colleagues 
know the look and the fit and our marketing 
colleagues provide outstanding insight to 
guide the effort. The Bonmarché Bonus Club 
is a great asset.
So despite difficult economic conditions 
during the year we have been able to drive 
the business forward at a pace. Our focus on 
offering stylish, well-fitting, quality clothing at 
highly competitive prices has resonated well 
with our customers, of whom we have 
attracted more. 
Our financial results show strong growth. 
Revenue (for the year ended 29 March 2014) 
increased 12% to £164.3m (from the prior 
12 months) and operating profit was £8.2m, 
up from £5.9m. Post-exceptional adjusted 
basic earnings per share is 11.1 pence, 
which, restating the 12 months to 30 March 
2013 on a pro-forma basis, is an increase of 
52%. Cash generated from operations was 
£14.4m, allowing the outstanding loans to be 
fully repaid during the year.
It is particularly pleasing that our efforts have 
been recognised by our customers, who voted 
us No.1 ‘Clothing Retailer’ and No.5 ‘Best High 
Street Shop’ in the 2013 Which Satisfaction 
Survey, and No.2 in the ‘Best Overall Retailer’ 
and ‘Best Clothing Retailer’ categories of the 
2013 Verdict Research awards.
AIM listing
We have made rapid progress in the last 
two years, so much so that the Group 
achieved a successful listing on the AIM 
market of the London Stock Exchange on 
20 November 2013.
Corporate governance
The Board is committed to operating to high 
standards of corporate governance, as we 
believe that doing so will contribute to the 
delivery of long-term shareholder value. The 
business applies the principles of the Quoted 
Companies Alliance Corporate Governance 
Code for small and medium quoted 
companies and, where practicable, elements 
of the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
Having been established shortly before the 
listing, the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees have had their first meetings, 
and are operating effectively.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 
29 to 32 sets out our governance framework 
in more detail.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to recommend a final 
dividend of 2.1 pence per share. If approved 
by the shareholders at the AGM on 31 July 
2014, it will be paid on 5 August 2014 to 
shareholders on the register on 27 June 2014.
Outlook
I believe that the outlook for the business in 
the coming year is positive. We have multiple 
growth opportunities to build upon and our 
core quality and value proposition will 
continue to be popular as the market 
gradually recovers. 
There is much still to do and I look forward to 
working with the Board and colleagues on 
what I expect will be another exciting year. 
Tim Mason 
Chairman
