 6 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
I am pleased to report on a year 
of strong growth, driven through the 
execution of our business strategies
Beth Butterwick Chief Executive
Introduction
In my first Chief Executive’ s report I am 
delighted with the progress we have made 
and the growth that Bonmarché has achieved. 
With full year sales at £164.3m, up 11.9%, 
we have been able to drive strong profit growth, 
whilst also allowing for investment in our 
multi-channel operations and in our teams. 
Our profit before tax was £8.0m, an increase 
of £3.2m from last year, and our underlying 
profit before tax was 85% higher than last 
year, increasing from £6.1m to £11.2m.
Over the last 12 months we have seen some 
improvement in consumer confidence, albeit 
customers are still cautious post-recession. 
Looking forward, even if general consumer 
demand grows slowly, we are optimistic 
about the outlook for our market. There are 
limited real clothing choices for our customers 
and with our complete focus on their needs, 
we believe we can maintain the growth of our 
business and market share.
We are confident that the successful execution 
of our strategy, developed using the valuable 
data our loyalty programme gives us, combined 
with the extensive commercial insight of our 
teams, will enable us to continue our appeal 
to existing and new customers alike.
Therefore during FY14, as well as achieving 
strong profit growth, we have laid many 
foundations for our future progression, and 
are positive about the outlook for FY15.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
our shareholders for their support in our early 
days as a publicly listed company. 
Customers and market
We are dedicated to serving the mature 
female consumer and through the information 
we gain from our Bonus Club, are able to stay 
close to our customers. This data tells us 
what they think of our product offer, our 
service across multi-channels, and our store 
and e-commerce environments. As an 
example, customers informed us that they 
found outfits displayed on mannequins more 
realistic than on in-store photography. We 
listened to this feedback, and undertook 
an investment to provide more mannequins in 
stores. Anecdotal feedback from our retail 
colleagues is that this action has contributed 
to the year’ s like-for-like sales growth.
Bonmarché operates in the value womenswear 
sector, with our aim being to serve well the 
50+ customer. Verdict* data tells us that the 
female population in the UK is increasingly an 
ageing one, with the 55+ female demographic 
growing at double the average rate of the 
total female population. In addition, the value 
segment of the clothing market has 
demonstrated resilient growth over the past 
few years and now represents 28% of the 
total female clothing sector. Cost-conscious 
consumers are continuing to prioritise value 
for money despite a pick up in key economic 
indicators. As women continue to work and 
remain active well into later life, many will 
desire more contemporary, stylish clothing 
and accessory solutions.
Based on the foregoing, it is our belief that 
this sector will continue to grow, yet it remains 
a poorly served market. We see this as our 
opportunity, and are optimistic about the 
market niche in which we operate. In the last 
12 months, we have seen our share of the 
women’ s value sector increase from 2.8% to 
3.2%, a 14% growth, and we are well placed 
to grow this further.
+14%
growth in  
market share
*  Copyright © 2013, Verdict, Value Clothing UK June 2013, 
reproduced with permission of Verdict. Strategic report
7 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
Another element of our product strategy is to 
identify potential add-on opportunities. In 2013, 
we acquired the Ann Harvey plus size brand. 
This will be re-launched in the summer of 2014.
As we continue to talk with our customers, 
the potential to widen our product offer and 
broaden the scope of how we engage with 
them becomes more apparent. We will use 
feedback from this ongoing dialogue to develop  
future strategic objectives.
Multi-channel
Our customers, current and potential, are 
one of the fastest demographic converting 
to digital selling channels. We will therefore 
develop our e-commerce operation to realise 
the potential of an increasingly internet savvy 
market. There is a broad range of sub 
activities under this heading, which include 
traffic building, improving conversion, 
developing web specific ranges and 
improving the fulfilment experience.
We will continue to develop our catalogue 
(introduced last year) to attract customers 
who do not have the convenience of a local 
Bonmarché store but are not ready to 
embrace shopping online. This also acts as a 
powerful marketing tool for use in stores.
TV shopping will be used to build awareness 
of the brand, whilst also offering another 
medium through which customers may shop 
for our collection. 
Underpinning our multi-channel platforms, 
will be the development of our fulfilment 
operations and infrastructure, to deliver a 
faster more coherent delivery experience for 
customers. Additionally an investment in a 
new EPOS system will support both better 
stock information and a more efficient 
service across all of our selling channels.
Stores
Having reconfigured our portfolio to 263 
profitable stores, our strategy with regard to 
our existing estate is centred on improving 
our store environment. We will achieve this 
by testing varying levels of capital investment, 
depending on the store size, location 
and turnover. 
Additionally, we have concentrated on finding 
other ways to improve the overall customer 
experience, whether it be by presenting clearer 
in-store product information, offering style 
advice or a relevant service, such as bra fitting.
Our strategy does not depend on a large 
opening programme of new solus stores, but 
there is certainly some scope for growth, and 
we have identified circa 30 priority towns that 
represent an opportunity should the right 
property become available.
Strategy
Our mission, ‘T o be the destination multi-
channel retailer for 50+ women – who want 
style-appropriate, quality products at fantastic 
prices, with outstanding service’, underpins 
our business plan. 
Our strategy articulates how we will achieve 
this mission, and falls under four broad areas: 
Product, Multi-channel, Stores and the 
development of Other sales channels.
Product
T o develop and enhance the main 
Bonmarché product range, which represents 
90% of our sales, we have focused on 
‘building back gaps’ we had in certain key 
ranges, such as coats, blouses and skirts. 
Additionally, we have focused on ‘increasing 
the mix representation’ in categories such as 
dresses, tops and accessories, where we are 
under-represented compared to the 
womenswear market average. Our David 
Emanuel brand represents the other 10% of 
the mix, and we will develop this label where 
we see additional opportunities. 
Pricing in the value sector remains highly 
competitive and our stance has been to 
continue to defend our strong entry price 
position, through the extension of our ‘first 
price, right price’ strategy, in conjunction with 
targeted increases in exit prices where 
product differentiation and market demand 
supports it.
Supporting this, a further development has 
been to improve the availability of certain key 
styles – our ‘hero lines’, which should always 
be in stock in a full range of sizes and colours. 
In our supply chain, we identified an opportunity 
to rationalise further our supplier base, so as 
to evolve fewer, more meaningful, strategic 
partnerships. In conjunction with this, we 
plan to improve our supply chain flexibility, by 
developing a greater near-market component, 
so that we are better able to react to 
short-term changes in consumer demand. 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Customer loyalty is extremely 
important to us and we are building 
on our strong brand identity with our 
established and loyal customer base. 
Our Bonus Club Scheme, which is 
our customer loyalty database, now 
stands at around 6.5 million members 
and is a valuable asset to us. The data 
we gather provides us with important 
insight into customer behaviour and 
spending patterns. It is used to adapt 
our decision making on an ongoing 
basis. For example, it allows us to 
generate an average age profile for 
every single garment that we sell so 
we review how products have 
performed at the end of the season. 
From that we can build outfits and see 
how our customers are buying items 
together and how their tastes evolve 
over time. 
We are currently working to grow 
our group of high value high loyalty 
customers, who make up 25% of 
the 1.7 million active members.
modernising 
our store 
portfolio 8 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
continued
Another key initiative was to ‘develop 
categories where we know our mix is lower’ 
than the average for the market such as 
dresses, tops and accessories. Again, these 
departments have made great progress, 
increasing their mix percentages and 
contributing £4.3m to our overall sales growth.
On pricing, we have continued to develop 
our clear ‘first price, right price’ stance. 
Evidence that this has been recognised by 
our customers is the growth across core 
departments such as T -shirts, knitwear, 
trousers and lingerie, a solid £6.0m increase 
on last year. At the other end of the price 
scale, we have developed our coat and dress 
ranges to achieve an increase in exit prices of 
up to 5%. The availability of our top 20 ‘hero 
lines’ has improved compared to last year, 
contributing to a £3.0m sales increase.
In listening to ongoing feedback from our 
customers, we have continued to develop and 
deliver a greater proportion of contemporary 
product, whilst still ensuring that the fit and 
quality remain appropriate. Evidence of this 
successful execution is our markdown, which 
was 1.3% lower than last year.
We concentrated on rationalising our supplier 
base, reducing our active suppliers from 170 
to 119. However, we have not become too 
dependent on any particular supplier – our 
top 20 suppliers still account for 67% of all 
stock purchases, the same as the year 
before. We are committed to ensuring the 
highest standards are maintained at every 
stage of production and, to support this, we 
are delighted to have appointed an 
experienced Quality & Sourcing Manager, 
whose key responsibility will be to ensure our 
merchandise is safe for our customers, and 
manufactured under secure, fair and humane 
working conditions. 
Multi-channel
T o lead the growth of the multi-channel side 
of our business, in June 2013, we appointed 
our first Multi-channel & Marketing Director. 
With 20 years of relevant retail experience his 
influence has already been felt, with great 
progress made across this area. In the new 
financial year, we will bolster this team’ s 
expertise with a Brand & Catalogue Manager.
Other sales channels
Holidays and gardening are two of the top five 
most popular leisure-time pursuits within the 
50+ demographic. We have therefore started 
exploring the viability of a Bonmarché model 
in other locations, such as garden centres, 
other ‘outlet’ locations and larger footprint 
retailers operating concession models.
Marketing
Our Bonus Club is well established, and 
our customers tell us that they like it. 
Nevertheless, we believe we can better 
reward our most loyal customers, and we will 
therefore seek ways to enhance their benefits 
this year. Additionally, as improvements to our 
product and stores gather momentum, we 
will conduct research that informs us how we 
can best promote Bonmarché to potential 
customers who are yet to discover us.
Progress update
FY14 was the first full year of implementing 
our strategy , following the development of our 
business plan the previous year. I am pleased 
to report that we have made good headway. 
T aking each of the main areas in turn, I set out 
a progress update.
Product
The collection has continued to improve 
significantly this year, as we react to the 
feedback harvested from customers, stores 
and the weekly information that the buying 
and merchandise teams analyse. I report on 
the results of our first initiative to ‘build back 
the sales gaps’ in categories such as coats, 
blouses and skirts, where we were historically 
stronger. This year, these departments have 
contributed an additional £2.4m in sales. 
OUR COLLEAGUES
This year we’ve invested significantly 
in our colleagues because we 
believe that great people make great 
companies. Our people as well as our 
customers continue to be at the heart 
of everything we do. Additionally, we 
have focused on attracting new talent 
in our product and store functions, 
and we have built expertise in the 
multi-channel area, including the 
recruitment of a multi-channel and 
marketing director. Our customer 
insight and logistics functions have 
been restructured so that we are well 
placed to understand our customers 
of tomorrow and how they will want 
to shop. We have also recruited a 
talent manager to both understand 
the functional experts in our business 
and to facilitate successful future hires. 
No.5 
best high  
street shop
Awarded 
No.1 
clothing  
retailer Strategic report
9 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
We have made a number of relatively low cost, 
store environment and selling improvements 
to the whole store estate, including:
 – the introduction of more mannequins to all 
stores to add threatre to both in-store and 
window displays, overhauls which were 
completed early in the financial year;
 – improvements to our fitting rooms to bring 
them up to a good standard, recognising 
that it will take some time before we are 
able to implement a more widespread 
‘concept fitting room’ upgrade;
 – in response to requests from our 
customers, we introduced ‘tub chairs’ to 
all stores, to cater for the many companions 
who accompany our customers on their 
often weekly shopping trips; and
 – improved our in-store and till point graphics 
to educate our customers on the many 
ways they can shop at Bonmarché.
Additional colleague service initiatives we 
have introduced include:
 – a trained bra advisor in every store;
 – a ‘VM Academy’ to support our stores 
developing their mannequin dressing and 
display standards; and
 – the first full year of our mystery shopper 
‘Customer First’ Programme, where 
we have seen the average store score 
increase from 70% to 77% and the 
‘Net Promoter Score’ increase from 22% 
to an impressive 47%.
Our store estate is functional, but we see 
the potential to develop an environment 
in which our customers more naturally form 
an emotional engagement. T o explore this, we 
tested several new refit concepts at varying 
investment levels in seven stores before 
Christmas. This has provided some good 
insights, and in our second phase we are 
refining the hierarchy of improvements, which 
we started testing in a further seven stores 
during March.
Other sales channels
In the last year, we have opened in two new 
sites within garden centres operated by a 
third party. Regrettably one was forced to 
close due to a fire, but we and our host 
partner have been very encouraged by the 
initial sales results, and have therefore begun 
a roll out programme for FY15. 
In exploring additional locations where we can 
present our offer, we have also begun 
meaningful dialogues with several other third 
parties, and over the course of FY15 we 
expect to develop Bonmarché propositions in 
more new concession type spaces. 
In our e-commerce channel, we have 
delivered:
 – the full year effect of the benefits of our 
2012 website re-platform. Evidence of 
these improvements were most apparent 
during the peak Christmas period;
 – the recruitment of a new online digital 
marketing agency to increase our ability 
to attract new customers to our site;
 – growth of our e-mail database, to 
750,000 customers; and
 – 400 new, web exclusive product lines, 
with the buying teams working closely with 
the multi-channel team, to develop more 
relevant, specific online ranges.
In relation to our Catalogue, we have:
 – issued 550,000, at quarterly intervals 
during the year, which has contributed 
to the increase in sales and become 
established as a powerful marketing tool 
to help develop the stores’ interaction 
with customers; and
 – developed an important tool to both prompt 
our customers to try new collection items 
and to promote repeat purchases.
In our TV shopping channel, we have:
 – delivered better shows, which have driven 
a net sales increase of £0.1m, an increase 
of 71% on last year; and
 – developed our understanding as to which 
products sell best.
Our TV shopping channel will represent a small 
part of the total sales mix, but is a valuable 
and low-cost way of bringing Bonmarché 
to the attention of a wider audience.
Underpinning multi-channel are key 
operational developments, where we have:
 – successfully outsourced a customer call 
centre to a local partner with an established 
empathy with our customers’ age profile; and
 – made improvements to our Christmas 
2013 delivery promise, both by adding 
a ‘next day’ express service and the 
reduction of our delivery charges, to 
ensure we remain competitive.
Stores
Our like-for-like stores have grown sales 10.4% 
year-on-year. Net store numbers fell during 
FY14, mainly as we exited one store 
(Canterbury), occupied under a short-term 
tenancy at will arrangement. We relocated two 
sites (Coventry and Newcastle), and laid the 
foundations of the opening programme for 
FY15, during which we expect five new solus 
sites to open. 
OUR KEY STRENGTHS
Talented and 
dedicated employees
Our colleagues are crucial to the 
successful delivery of our strategic 
objectives. With this in mind, we have 
continued to develop our in-house 
talent and where appropriate invested 
in new expertise.
Experienced management team
We have recruited a talented and 
experienced management team with 
a broad range of experience that matches 
our requirements and our future 
business objectives. 
Strong loyalty
Our deep knowledge of the needs of our 
customers has enhanced customer loyalty 
over the past year. 
The brand
We are dedicated to serving the mature 
female customer and our mission is to be 
the destination multi-channel retailer for 
50+ women, who want style-appropriate, 
quality products at fantastic prices, with 
outstanding service. This mission 
underpins our business plan.
Coherent strategy
Our detailed knowledge of the sector and 
changing demographics, has informed the 
development of a coherent strategy. This 
sector has changed quite significantly over 
the last few years, with several key players 
exiting, the demise of traditional home 
shopping retailers and the more generalist 
retailers migrating to serve a younger 
age profile. 
A transformed business 
Our transformational phase is now 
complete. The last year has seen 
significant changes with respect to 
product, stores and the development of 
our multi-channel offering. This strategy 
has helped transform the way that the 
business operates. We have improved 
processes and built relationships with 
suppliers that have supported growth.
Broad product range with 
scope to diversify
We have broadened our product range 
over the past year, and built greater 
flexibility into our processes in order to 
allow more scope for diversification. 10 Bonmarché Annual Report   2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
continued
In total, we expect to open in a further 
15-20 other sites over the course of the new 
financial year. T o support this activity, we have 
promoted one of our most experienced 
Regional Managers to Business Development 
Manager, to identify further opportunities, 
develop and maintain the relationships with 
partners, and lead the opening programme.
The year in review
I am delighted to say we have increased our 
profit before tax from £4.8m to £8.0m, and 
our underlying profit before tax (profit before 
exceptional items) from £6.1m to £11.2m. 
We have achieved this through strong sales 
growth, maintaining stability in our occupancy 
costs, whilst continuing to invest where we 
need to, such as multi-channel, in order to 
continue our growth.
Overall, we have seen underlying costs 
(excluding interest) as a proportion of sales 
reduce from 52.6% for FY13 to 50.2% for 
FY14, and the underlying profit before tax 
margin has therefore improved from 4.1% 
to 6.8%.
Sales growth
Our like-for-like stores have grown a 
respectable 10.4% year-on-year, with the 
main drivers being:
 – product improvements;
 – new window displays;
 – service improvements, delivered through 
store training and the ‘Customer First’ 
Programme; and
 – a contribution from our catalogue, 
e-commerce e-mails and the improved 
Bonus Club customer mailers.
During FY14, net selling space declined, 
and non like-for-like sales therefore reduced 
by £1.2m.
Our multi-channel sales have grown an 
impressive 84%, with the main component of 
the growth being increased visits, up by 90%.
Operations
In general operations we have implemented 
the following initiatives: 
 – restructured our logistics team and 
introduced a more broadly balanced senior 
management level, to support planned 
activity increases;
 – extended the web-fulfilment team to cater 
for the 48% increase in despatch volumes;
 – replaced some of our older HGV’ s. We took 
this opportunity to reshape the fleet to 
achieve a more flexible configuration, which 
will also reduce fuel costs and emissions; and
 – began a project to update our EPOS 
system which will, at maturity, not only 
improve the customer experience at the till, 
but provide the technology for the customer 
to have the ability to purchase any product, 
at any time, from any store, and have it 
delivered to home or to store. The project 
will be implemented in stores through late 
2014 and 2015.
Outlook – the year ahead 
General market 
With regards to the general economic 
outlook, there are both reports and statistics 
that suggest the economy is strengthening, 
albeit slowly. This is welcome news, but we 
are cautious in making assumptions about 
how quickly this will filter through to our 
customers in particular. Our forecasts have 
not incorporated any sales growth as a result 
of a general strengthening in the consumer 
market, and if any such growth materialises, 
it will be an upside to next year’ s plan.
Additionally, Verdict* has predicted a strong 
relative growth in the mature demographic 
and with our particular focus on the 50+ 
female population, we are positive about the 
opportunity this presents for Bonmarché.
10.4%
like-for-like
sales increase
Strategy
FY15 will be the second full year during which 
we execute the strategy set in the calendar 
year 2012. We remain confident that this will 
further enhance the importance of Bonmarché 
to its current customers and bring it to the 
attention of potential new ones. As our 
multi-channel offer becomes more seamless, 
it will also make the brand accessible to 
customers in more remote and perhaps 
international locations.
Therefore, our strategy for FY15 and beyond 
will evolve from this base. As we continue to 
understand more about this demographic, 
we will seek to identify opportunities to further 
complement our core womenswear offer. 
Beth Butterwick 
Chief Executive
