 Booker Group plc
annual report & accounts 2009
3
cHairMan’s stateMent
s ales are up 3.3% in 
the year, operating 
proﬁt is up 25% and 
net debt was cut  
by 47%. 
Market conditions have been challenging 
due to the cooling in the economy and the 
smoking ban in public places. Despite these 
issues, Booker Group plc has performed 
well. sales are up 3.3% in the year, operating 
proﬁt is up 25% and net debt was cut by 
47%. customer satisfaction has improved 
and the ﬁnancial performance has been 
sound across the period.
the drive into the catering market is working 
with like-for-like sales to caterers and other 
non retailers up by 7.0% and sales to 
retailers up by 1.0%. Despite product cost 
inflation in some sectors, our prices have 
remained competitive and stock availability 
has been good.
t he plans to ‘broaden’ the business are 
going well. By May 2009 we had converted 
71 of our 173 branches to the ‘extra’ format. 
the extra format offers a wider range and 
delivers a better customer experience.
Booker Direct, our delivered wholesale 
business is growing well. We have had some 
major customer wins including HM prisons 
in england and Wales.
o ur internet business is growing strongly 
with sales of £250m compared to £109m 
in the previous year.
in addition we announced in april that we 
intend to open our ﬁrst cash & carry branch 
in Mumbai, india later this year.
i am pleased that Karen Jones joined the 
Board as an independent non-executive 
Director in March 2009. Her background, 
including having been the chief executive 
of s pirit Group, the pub and restaurant 
business, means she brings extensive 
catering experience to the Board. i am also 
pleased that richard farr joined the Board 
as an independent non-executive Director 
on 27 May 2009. He has a great deal of 
ﬁnancial and business knowledge and will 
make a good contribution to the Board. 
Bryan Drew, commercial Director and Bryn 
satherley, operations Director joined the 
Board in november 2008. Both are making 
a major contribution to Booker.
Kevin l yon, non-executive Director, stepped 
down from the Board on 27 May 2009. Kevin 
has made a great contribution to Booker as 
a private then aiM listed company. after four 
years on the Board he has decided to pursue 
other opportunities. We wish him well and 
thank him for the support he has given.
i should like to thank all our staff for their 
contribution to the success of the Group in 
the year just ended.
Basic earnings per share at 2.63 pence is up 
from 2.04 pence last year. Given the strong 
operational performance of the business, 
the Board recommends the payment of a 
0.67 pence per share ﬁnal dividend (payable 
on 10 July 2009). this is in addition to the 
interim dividend of 0.2 pence per share, that 
was paid on 28 november 2008.
Outlook
the economy is expected to remain difﬁcult 
in the year ahead and the food wholesale 
market remains very competitive. We 
expect to continue to make progress in this 
challenging environment.
subsequent to the year end, Booker 
continues to trade in line with management 
expectations.
Move to the Main Market
We have separately conﬁrmed our intention 
to move trading in the company’s shares 
from the aiM market to the ofﬁcial list.
Annual General Meeting
o ur annual General Meeting will be held 
on 8 July 2009. the notice of the annual 
General Meeting separately accompanies 
this document.
Richard Rose
Chairman 
