 Booker Group plc
annual report & accounts 2011
3
cHairMan’s stateMent
i am pleased to 
report that Booker 
Group plc has 
delivered another 
strong performance.
i am pleased to report that Booker 
Group plc has delivered another strong 
performance. in the year to 25 March 
2011 sales rose by 6.2% and operating 
profit was up 15% as customer 
satisfaction continued to improve. the 
financial performance was good and 
the Group ended the year with net cash 
of £27.1m. the drive into the catering 
market is working, with like-for-like sales 
to caterers up by 6.3% and sales to 
retailers up by 4.6%. 
the plans to ‘Broaden’ the business 
are going well. We have converted 
115 of our 172 business centres in the 
uK to the ‘extra’ format – the lighter, 
brighter, more modern format. Booker 
distributed £930m of product to our 
customers’ premises this year versus 
£797m last year and we continue to 
expand our delivered offering. internet 
sales were £526m compared to £407m 
in the previous year and Booker india 
continues to trade well. i am pleased 
that ritter-courivaud and classic, our 
two new acquisitions, have settled well 
into the Booker Group and are helping 
to broaden the business for the future.
after five years of great service to 
Booker, Bryan Drew has left the Board 
to pursue his entrepreneurial interests; 
i and the rest of the Board would like 
to thank him for his contribution to 
the Group. We are delighted that Guy 
farrant has joined Booker as Managing 
Director of the uK cash and carry 
business. Guy brings a wealth of food 
industry expertise that will help to drive 
the business forward. richard farr, non-
executive Director, stepped down from 
the Board on 18 May 2011. We thank 
him for the great support he has given 
to the company over the last two years. 
i am also pleased that stewart Gilliland 
has joined as a non-executive Director. 
stewart was formerly chief executive of 
Muller Dairies uK & ireland and has great 
experience in the food and drinks trade. i 
should like to thank all our colleagues for 
their contribution to the success of the 
Group in the year just ended.
Basic earnings per share were 3.90 
pence up from 3.19 pence last year. 
Given the strong operational performance 
of the business, the Board recommends 
the payment of a final dividend of 1.40 
pence per share (2010: 1.03 pence per 
share) which, together with the interim 
dividend, makes a total dividend for the 
year of 1.67 pence per share (2010: 1.27 
pence per share). the final dividend is 
payable on 8 July 2011 to shareholders 
on the register on 3 June 2011.
Outlook
the economy is expected to remain 
difficult in the year ahead and the 
food wholesale market remains very 
competitive. nevertheless, we expect 
to continue to make progress in this 
challenging environment. the exceptional 
weather in the first seven weeks of the 
current financial year has led to a good 
start, and Booker is on course to meet 
our expectations for the year.
Annual General Meeting
our annual General Meeting will be held 
on 6 July 2011. the notice of annual 
General Meeting separately accompanies 
this document.
Richard Rose
Chairman
