 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
STRATEGY & BUSINESS MODEL 
The Group’s primary business is the delivery of 
large-scale solutions for high-stakes examination 
processing, with a particular focus on electronic 
marking. The business provides a combination of 
electronic marking software solutions (e-Marker®) 
and, in the UK, a bureau service for the secure 
scanning of examination papers. The integration 
of the software and services elements are an 
important aspect of our operations in the UK.
The business also offers solutions for selected election and 
population census markets. Such solutions depend, in different 
combinations, on the Group’s expertise in document design, 
printing, scanning of forms, software development, logistics, 
project management and consultancy. 
The Group’s core strategy in recent years has been to 
enhance and develop its software-based services business 
in the Education sector. The Group’s product development 
programmes have reflected that strategy and for several 
years the Group has been directing its development effort 
primarily into the research and development of a new 
e-Marker® electronic marking software solution. In recent 
years the Group has also been investing in the design and 
development of a new PhotoScribe® scanner, the PS1000.
Steve Gowers 
CEO
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
8
 STRATEGIC REPORT
Education
Our core education business focuses on the delivery 
of solutions for student registration and examination 
processing and the electronic marking of high-stakes, high-
volume examinations. The Education market is a particular 
focus because it offers regular and repeatable business 
opportunities arising from the annual cycle of examinations. 
We offer these services and solutions, including the 
e-Marker® electronic marking solution, either directly or 
in conjunction with selected partners in certain markets. 
The licence model that DRS uses for e-Marker® is to charge 
a recurring fee, with a per-transaction (per-examination 
script) charge applied for the use of the licence. Other 
DRS solutions, such as for Multiple Choice Questionnaire 
processing (MCQ) may be licenced to clients for an up-front 
initial licence fee. 
The business model in the UK is based on direct sales 
and the delivery model is to offer a full bureau service, 
including script handling, scanning and image preparation 
for electronic marking and the delivery of online marking 
services to exam markers through the e-Marker® software 
as a service, supported by DRS staff. 
The opportunities for growth are targeted at carefully 
selected overseas territories that the Group feels 
represent the best opportunities for DRS, with the current 
focus being on Africa and India. In these geographies 
the coverage includes both secondary and higher 
education examination processing. In overseas markets 
the services which support the use of e-Marker® may 
be offered directly or delivered through selected service 
provider partners to provide script handling, scanning and 
electronic marking services. We are currently working 
with a number of partners in Africa and India to develop 
these services.
The existing e-Marker® solution provides awarding bodies 
with the functionality for Item Level Marking (ILM), 
allowing a script to be split into individual questions which 
may be marked by different examiners. Such a solution 
offers the potential for improvements in efficiency and 
accuracy in marking and the reduction of the influence of a 
single examiner over a whole script. 
The new platform, e-Marker®2, is initially focused on the 
provision of Whole Script Marking (WSM), which is aimed 
principally at the overseas market as this form of marking 
more closely replicates the existing manual processes in 
use and therefore provides a simpler transition to electronic 
marking. This functionality is complementary to the 
existing ILM functionality in e-Marker®1. 
The Group is in the process of completing the Whole Script 
Marking solution and delivering this release to market. The 
priority is to achieve live implementations of e-Marker®2 
with selected overseas customers to demonstrate the value 
of the platform and the functionality developed to date. In the UK customer requirements are driven in part by the 
requirements of the regulating body, Ofqual. At present 
Ofqual research is particularly focused on post-marking 
processing of enquiries about results (‘EAR’), therefore it 
is anticipated that certain enhancements will be required 
to existing and new software to maintain compliance, and 
this work will be scheduled when the regulator has finalised 
the requirements. 
Elections & Census
In addition to the recurring opportunities offered by the 
Education market, the Group is also continuing to pursue 
one-off opportunities in the Elections and Census markets, 
based on DRS software applications and the Group’s 
PhotoScribe® scanners. The focus is primarily on paper-based 
national population censuses in selected countries, and voter 
registration and ballot counting for large statutory and non-
statutory elections.
Our customers may require a combination of data capture, 
processing and reporting solutions as well as the delivery 
of related services which include technology infrastructure 
design, operational training, document printing, scanning 
and data handling. The provision of services and project 
management may be offered directly or may be provided 
through a selected third-party partner. Any such projects 
are expected to be profitable on an individual project-by-
project basis.
In the Elections market going forward the business will 
continue to seek profitable one-off projects for which the 
Group’s election solutions are deemed to be suitable. To 
balance the ratio of risk to reward it expects to operate 
principally as a provider of software and hardware to third-
parties who will themselves be the prime contractor for 
such projects. 
In the Census market the Group will continue to seek 
profitable one-off projects that are of a suitable size for the 
business to offer a complete end-to-end solution.
Objectives
As a business we continue to focus on solutions 
that provide for large-scale, secure capture and 
processing of high-stakes data, primarily from 
manually completed, paper-based forms and the 
output of the results to a fixed timetable. These 
results might be examination marks or they might 
be election counts or census results. Elections and 
Census projects offer opportunities that, while 
they are high value are, by their nature, non-
recurring and tend to be project based requiring 
specific customisation. By contrast, events in 
the Education market such as examinations are 
STRATEGIC REPORT
9
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
regular and repeatable and offer the opportunity 
for recurring revenue streams. Because of this we 
have a particular objective to increase revenue 
from the Education market. 
In line with this, a key objective for the business continues 
to be the delivery of new products and related professional 
services and the Group is continuing to invest in research 
and development as part of a multi-year development and 
implementation programme for the release and roll-out 
of the new Whole Script Marking (WSM) functionality on 
the e-Marker®2 platform, with a particular focus for that 
product being new revenue opportunities. 
The UK business operates on an annual cycle of 
examination series in January, March, summer and 
November. Recent structural changes led to all of these, 
other than the summer series, reducing in importance and 
volumes, and the volume in the summer series increasing. 
This has resulted in the need to address greater peaks 
and troughs in the processing cycle as a key element of 
operating an efficient business. The business is also keen to 
seek opportunities for revenue that lie outside this cycle to 
balance the effects across the year.
In the Elections market the primary objective is to continue 
to successfully meet all the milestones for the multi-year 
project with the Greater London Authority (GLA) for the 
delivery of the Mayor of London and London Assembly 
elections in May 2016. 
Markets
DRS is a specialist provider of automated data capture 
technology and solutions in the UK and overseas to its 
three main market sectors: Education, Elections and Census. 
The provision of services, data acquisition and scanning 
technology and printed forms provides the common link 
between the three distinct market sectors in which the 
Group operates. Specialised software has been created for 
each market which is combined with the above elements to 
produce the solutions which the Group sells.
 Education
For over four decades DRS has supported awarding bodies, 
assessment authorities, schools, colleges and universities in 
the UK and in selected overseas markets, providing secure 
data capture and examination processing products and 
specialist services.
DRS is the provider of the longest established online 
examination marking service in the UK. Awarding bodies and 
professional bodies have been using electronic marking to 
mark high-stakes, high-volume general qualifications such  CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
as GCSE and GCE A-level examinations since 2002. AQA 
Education, a leading UK provider of academic qualifications, 
remains the Group’s largest customer overall, among a range 
of awarding bodies and other examining entities in the UK 
and overseas.
The products and services provided by the Group include:
Software: DRS marking and examination software including 
e-Marker® software for online electronic examination marking 
and Multiple Choice Questionnaire (MCQ) marking software;
Services: full service bureau operations in the UK, providing 
secure receipt and storage of scripts, scanning and imaging 
of completed exam answer booklets and electronic delivery 
of online marking, as well as on-site professional services for 
client’s in-house operations or to support partners delivering 
such services overseas;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners: robust, 
high speed, network-ready form scanners able to capture 
complex data in real-time; and
Printed forms: production of bespoke examination scripts 
including fully optimised examiner answer and mark sheets 
for electronic capture, exam entry and registration forms 
incorporating photo capture and MCQ answer forms and 
exam marking forms.
Key market drivers include the size and growth of the student 
populations in these markets, the investment being made in 
education by governments and individuals and the potential 
benefits that electronic marking offers as a replacement for 
what are predominantly manual processes in the majority 
of overseas markets. These benefits include enhancements 
to the data collection process by reducing transportation of 
answer booklets, improvements in marking quality and better 
use of markers through targeted allocation and re-allocation 
of scripts and real-time monitoring of marking, the removal 
of bias and improved administration and reporting of the 
marking process.
 Elections
DRS provides a solution for electronically counted elections 
encompassing ballot design and printing, scanning hardware, 
ballot counting software, support and training. We are able to 
cover statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
parliamentary elections, legislative and local council elections 
as well as employee and trade union ballots. DRS’s principal 
aim is to provide these solutions to selected local partners or 
systems integrators as part of their programme of election 
service delivery.
We have developed knowledge and expertise from national and 
local elections in a number of markets including Europe, Africa 
and the Middle-East. In 2012, DRS, working in conjunction 
with ERS (Electoral Reform Services Limited) under the 
name IntElect®, provided the technology and expertise for 
the electronic counting of ballots in London for the Mayor 
of London and London Assembly elections, the third time 
since 2000 that the Group has delivered this election. In 2014 
IntElect® was awarded the contract to deliver the forthcoming 
elections in 2016.
DRS Election software, scanning equipment and services 
include the following:
Software: electronic counting (e-Counting) solutions for 
statutory and non-statutory elections including national 
elections, local and regional council elections and by-elections;
Services: provision of support and technical services for 
complex election projects;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners for ballot 
scanning and for voter registration; and
Printed forms: ballot paper design and forms production. 
 Census
DRS Census services provide data capture solutions for large-
scale censuses including paper-based national or regional 
population censuses and specialised industrial, commercial 
and agricultural censuses. The Group has delivered national 
population censuses around the world, with several in Africa. 
We recognise that every census project is different and that 
market requirements are constantly changing. DRS has 
therefore developed a flexible, adaptable approach combined 
with proven and innovative data capture methods and 
technology. 
The Group is able to provide bespoke solutions encompassing:
Software: customised census software to handle Optical Mark 
Recognition (OMR), Intelligent Character Recognition (ICR), 
barcode recognition and image recognition;
Services: provision of professional and technical services and 
project management to cover all stages of a project from 
planning through to project implementation, document 
scanning of enumeration/census forms using DRS PhotoScribe® 
PS900 series scanners, data processing and export of the data 
to a chosen analysis package for complex census projects;
Scanning equipment: DRS PhotoScribe® scanners; and
Printed forms: enumeration/census forms design and printing. 
A key factor in the Census market is that it is subject to a 
decennial cycle, with the majority of censuses being clustered 
on or around the decade end. Outside of those peaks there 
are markedly fewer projects, limited to those countries which 
have not held a census for some time or decide to carry out an 
intercensal population survey. 
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
10
 STRATEGIC REPORT Overview of the year
Operationally the Group performed in line with expectations 
in 2015, with Group revenue totalling £12,477 ,000 (2014: 
£13,684,000).
Although the multi-year reform of GCSE and A-level 
examinations in the UK continues, as expected the volume 
of examination marking broadly stabilised in 2015 and there 
were no further structural changes in UK examinations of the 
kind experienced in 2014. 
At the same time local economic conditions in overseas 
markets, in particular in Africa, have remained challenging 
and the Group has continued to see reduced demand for 
its traditional scanner and print business. As a result of the 
combination of these conditions, Education revenue overall 
amounted to £12,287 ,000 (2014: £13,027 ,000), a decline of 
5.7%. Overall revenue from e-Marker® in the UK and overseas 
was stable at £9,344,000 (2014: £9,301,000).
In non-Education markets no revenue for large-scale Elections 
and Census projects was recognisable during 2015. Non-
Education revenue for the year totalled £190,000 (2014: 
£657 ,000).
STRATEGIC REPORT
11
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
EDUCATION COMMERCIAL ELECTIONS AND 
CENSUS
TOTAL
£000 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014
UK Sales 9,740 9,872 15 19 20 1 9,775 9,892
International Sales 2,547 3,155 47 53 108 584 2,702 3,792
Total 12,287 13,027 62 72 128 585 12,477 13,684
UK Sales
Overall UK sales in 2015 were in line with expectations, with 
revenue of £9,775,000, a reduction of 1.2% (2014: £9,892,000). 
In the UK Education market we continue to provide electronic 
marking services for a number of awarding bodies, including 
AQA Education. These encompass the provision of service 
bureau operations for the scanning and imaging of scripts and 
for the delivery of DRS’s online marking software as a service. 
In addition to these solutions the business also has a small 
legacy of print and engineering services business. 
An important milestone was achieved in the summer of 2015 
as it represented the largest volume of scripts ever processed 
by DRS in a summer series, with five million scripts processed. 
It was the second year that we processed the summer series in 
a cloud infrastructure environment, which provides a scaleable, 
efficient and more robust environment for such services. 
Full year UK Education revenue in 2015 from the combination 
of these software and services offerings amounted to 
£9,740,000 (2014: £9,872,000), a small decline arising from a 
reduction in the legacy print and engineering services business.
International Sales
As expected during 2015, DRS saw lower revenue from 
overseas markets as a result of a combination of the absence 
of any large-scale elections and census projects and weak 
demand in the Group’s traditional scanner and print business 
in Africa which arose from the local economic conditions. 
As a result international sales overall were further reduced, 
with total revenue of £2,702,000 (2014: £3,792,000). 
During 2015 we demonstrated e-Marker®2 to a number of 
customers and carried out a non-live pilot with an existing 
client in Africa. The feedback we are receiving demonstrates 
that there is increasing acceptance of electronic marking in 
overseas markets and therefore a likelihood of a growing 
market opportunity. It is also clear that this progress has 
gone hand-in-hand with a growing sophistication in the 
user community, which is leading to increased demands 
for a broader set of features to meet these international 
market needs.
While progress in signing new business in India has been 
slower than expected, towards the end of the year we 
achieved an important milestone when we received an order 
for a pilot project from a new client in the Indian Higher 
Education sector.
Dividend Policy
The Board follows a dividend policy which provides a return 
to Shareholders whilst retaining sufficient cash to continue 
to fund the development of the Group’s products. 
As a consequence of trading conditions in 2015, the 
Directors do not propose the payment of a final dividend 
(2014: nil). CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
continued
Research and Development
Research and Development continues to be a fundamental 
part of DRS’s strategy. A structured programme of work to 
generate new products for our Education business and the 
PhotoScribe® scanners has continued at a similar level of 
expenditure. A breakdown of the investment over 2014 and 
2015 is set out in the tables below:
DRS Data and Research Services plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
12
 STRATEGIC REPORT
2014
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 1,192 981 - 2,173
Hardware Research and Development 491 - 302* 793
Total cash spend 1,683 981 302* 2,966
Amortisation 135 - - 135
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,818 981 302* 3,101
e-Marker®
DRS’s largest development programme continues to be 
investment in its examination marking software solution, 
e-Marker®2. 2014 saw the release of Whole Script 
Marking that will provide benefits to customers in the 
UK and internationally over the next few years. This is 
the foundation of a continuing development programme 
for DRS’s examination products suite, which will be sold 
alongside the current e-Marker®2 product that already 
provides Item Level Marking.
In 2016 further functional enhancements to the new 
e-Marker®2 platform will be developed based on the new 
platform.
PhotoScribe®
Development work to produce a new platform for the next 
generation of PhotoScribe® scanning machines to support 
a range of machines that can handle larger documents 
than the current PS900 range has been completed by the 
end of 2015. The new model, the PS1000, demonstrates 
2015
Income 
Statement 
Expense
£000
Balance Sheet 
Expenditure
Capitalised
£000
Customer 
Projects 
in Progress
£000
Total 
£000
Software Research and Development 703 695 - 1,398
Hardware Research and Development 570 - 619* 1,189
Total cash spend 1,273 695 619* 2,587
Amortisation 264 - - 264
Total Research and Development cost 
(including amortisation)
1,537 695 619* 2,851
* These amounts are included within Trade and other receivables.
The balance sheet expenditure capitalised shown in the tables above relates to the internally generated software development 
expenditure that has been impaired in accordance with IAS 36 (see Note 10 Exceptional Items).
