 03
Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that Booker 
Group plc has delivered another good 
performance. In the 52 weeks to 28 
March 2014 sales rose by 17% to £4.7bn 
and operating proﬁt of £120.4m was up 
23%. Customer satisfaction continued 
to improve and we had our best 
satisfaction scores ever. The ﬁnancial 
performance was good and the Group 
ended the ﬁnancial year with net cash 
of £149.6m. The drive into the catering 
market is working, with Booker like-for-
like sales to caterers (excluding Makro) 
up by 7.1%. Booker like-for-like sales to 
retailers (excluding Makro) fell by 0.5%, 
due to a contraction in the UK duty paid 
tobacco market. Makro is now making a 
real contribution to the Group.
The plans to ‘Broaden’ the business 
are going well. In the 52 weeks to 28 
March 2014 Booker distributed £1.3bn 
of product to our customers’ premises 
versus £1.15bn last year as we continue 
to expand our delivered service. Booker 
Direct, Chef Direct, Classic and Ritter 
Courivaud, our specialist delivered 
businesses, had a good year. Internet 
sales were £777m compared to £704m 
in the previous year and sales at Booker 
India are making good progress. 
Much of the year has been spent 
bringing Makro into the Group. This is on 
track. We are delighted to have the team 
from Makro join Booker Group.
I should like to thank all our colleagues 
for their contribution to the success of 
the Group in the year just ended.
Basic earnings per share were 6.06 
pence, up from 4.51 pence last 
year. Given the strong operational 
performance and cash flow of the 
business the Board recommends the 
payment of a ﬁnal dividend of 2.75 
pence per share (2013: 2.25 pence per 
share) which, together with the interim 
dividend, makes a total dividend for the 
year of 3.20 pence per share (2013: 2.63 
pence per share). The ﬁnal dividend is 
payable on 11 July 2014 to shareholders 
on the register on 13 June 2014.
In addition to the ﬁnal dividend, the 
Board is recommending a special 
capital return to shareholders of 3.50 
pence per ordinary share (at a cost of 
approximately £61m, based on the 
current issued share capital of the 
Company). We currently anticipate 
making a similar return to shareholders 
in July 2015 and will provide an update 
on this at the 2015 Final Results 
announcement in May 2015, in light of 
circumstances prevailing at that time.
Outlook
The Group’s trading in the ﬁrst seven 
weeks of the current ﬁnancial year is 
ahead of last year. We anticipate that 
the challenging consumer and market 
environment will persist through the 
coming year and the UK’s food market 
remains very competitive. 
Whilst there is increasing price 
competition in the UK grocery and 
discount sectors, we will continue to 
deliver our plans to offer our customers 
even better choice, prices and service 
supported by the continued delivery of the 
Makro synergy plans and our efﬁciency 
programmes. We are on track to deliver 
an outcome for the new ﬁnancial year in 
line with our plans and to make progress 
in this challenging environment. 
Annual General Meeting
Our Annual General Meeting will be held 
on 9 July 2014. The notice of Annual 
General Meeting and a circular setting 
out further details of the proposed 
return of capital which itself, requires 
shareholder approval, will be issued to 
shareholders in due course.
Richard Rose
Chairman
Booker Group plc has delivered  
another good performance
