 24722.04    12 October 2016 7:29 AM   PROOF 5  
I am pleased to report another year 
of good progress for Dunelm. On a 
consistent 52-week basis, we grew 
our total sales by 7.1%, driven by the 
opening of six new stores, 1.0% growth 
in our like-for-like store sales and 23.2% 
growth in our home delivery sales. We 
converted this revenue growth into 6.2% 
growth (5.1% growth on a 53-week basis) 
in pre-tax profits and 7.5% growth (6.3% 
growth on a 53-week basis) in earnings 
per share, notwithstanding our sustained 
investment in the business. 
This profit growth, coupled with strong 
cash flow, allows us to propose a 19.4% 
increase in the final dividend, which 
would increase the full year dividend by 
16.7%. In addition, we paid a special 
dividend of 31.5 pence per share during 
the year, bringing the total dividend 
proposed for the year to 56.6 pence 
per share, some £115m in shareholder 
distributions. In view of the scale of the 
special dividends in recent years, the 
Board has refined our dividend policy 
to provide a slightly higher ordinary 
dividend pay-out ratio, the details of 
which are included in the Chief Financial 
Officer’s report.
Dunelm has become the UK’s leading 
homewares retailer by offering customers 
an unrivalled proposition through our 
national network of 152 superstores and 
website, providing an extensive choice 
of good quality, great value products, 
backed up by the knowledge and 
expertise of nearly 9,000 colleagues. 
Let me thank all our colleagues for 
their tremendous contribution to our 
continuing success. We really appreciate 
their hard work and dedication.
Our Chief Executive, John Browett, 
describes in the following report the 
key initiatives which our teams are 
implementing to further strengthen our 
business and support future growth. 
These initiatives, which represent a 
considerable investment in the business, 
include exciting new store designs, 
investment in our online shop and its 
supporting infrastructure, and improved 
supply chain and warehousing which 
will improve product availability and 
efficiency. In addition, we shall continue 
to invest in our people with increased 
training and talent development 
programmes. In short, we aim to give our 
customers even more reasons to shop at 
Dunelm and to make Dunelm a better 
place for our colleagues to work.
We have successfully navigated a year 
of considerable change in our Board, 
with John Browett formally taking the 
CEO reins in January 2016, Keith Down 
becoming our new CFO in December 
2015 and two new Non-Executive 
Directors, William Reeve and Peter 
Ruis, joining our Board. John has also 
strengthened our Executive team with a 
number of new appointments, which are 
central to delivering our plans. We are 
pleased to have brought in strong new 
leadership whilst maintaining Dunelm’s 
distinct business principles and culture, 
which have sustained our growth since 
the business was founded by Bill and 
Jean Adderley in 1979. We are proud of 
our culture which is exemplified by our 
Deputy Chairman, Will Adderley.
The competitive landscape in retail 
continues to change at a fast pace 
with the growth of new competition, 
especially online. Our operating model 
has allowed us to gain market share in 
times of uncertainty, and post-Brexit,  
we are confident the same opportunities 
exist now. We have ambitious plans 
to continue to grow our business and 
we intend to grasp the opportunities 
to further strengthen our competitive 
position. We remain confident in the 
Dunelm proposition and look forward to 
reporting further progress.
Andy Harrison 
Chairman 
14 September 2016
Andy Harrison Chairman
Read more online at  
dunelm.production.investis.com
@
Chairman’s Statement
strategic report
3 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016
Dunelm AR2016-front.indd   3 12/10/2016   09:56:26
