 24722.04    12 October 2016 7:29 AM   PROOF 5
One of the great things about Dunelm 
is that we are able to offer tremendous 
value for money for our customers and 
an unrivalled range whilst remaining 
a low cost retailer. In the last year we 
have continued to strengthen our offer 
and expand our store base, allowing 
us to further increase market share and 
enhance our market leading position. 
We are confident that our ambitious 
plans will bring further improvements for 
customers and underpin our prospects, 
even if the market proves to be difficult.
Customers love what we do; our wide 
product ranges are suitable for all 
budgets and tastes. Our prices are 
always competitive or market leading. 
We have fantastic colleagues in our 
stores, in the supply chain and our 
support centre who give great service. 
We have high on-shelf availability in-
store and online. Indeed, our offer is 
unmatched by our competitors.
Our low cost model is a critical part of 
making our business work for customers. 
Our store costs are low because we 
have built a network of stores that work 
for customers but have been rented 
on sensible terms. We have modern 
IT systems that are cost effective and 
easy to upgrade. By running a defined 
contribution pension scheme we have 
clear costs and no legacy liabilities. We 
always endeavour to run a lean operation 
so we can invest more in lower prices 
and better products.
Last year, we continued to improve the 
shopping trip for our customers. We 
have improved our ranges, have become 
more competitive on price, made our 
stores easier to shop and launched a 
vastly improved website. I think almost 
all our customers have noticed the work 
we have done to clear the aisles, put the 
product back into logical places and run 
our promotions much more tightly and 
effectively. These may seem like small 
things, but through customer feedback 
we know they make a major difference.
The improvements in the customer offer 
are paid for by running our business 
more effectively. We continue to work on 
developing our IT platform to provide 
more efficient processes as well as a 
better customer experience in-store and 
online. Our internal ‘Keep it Simple’ 
programme looks at activity in our head 
office to ensure that we are eliminating 
unnecessary work or improving broken 
processes. Last year, we invested heavily 
in our logistics infrastructure to enable 
better customer service at lower costs 
in the future. The store teams have also 
made great progress in simplifying their 
operation to free up hours to serve 
customers.
In the year ahead it may be that the 
economy proves to be difficult. However, 
even if there are short term problems, 
life continues and for a business like 
Dunelm this is almost sure to bring 
new opportunities. Our ‘Simply Value 
for Money’ proposition becomes even 
more appealing if consumers feel under 
financial pressure. In addition, our 
business is not significantly reliant on 
big-ticket purchases; our average basket 
size remains around £30.
Dunelm is a strong business due to the 
level of profit and cash flow generated, 
combined with its low leverage, even 
including our lease liabilities. None of 
that changes because of Brexit. Indeed, 
in uncertain times our strengths become 
even more of an advantage. It should 
mean that we can expand faster and 
offer even more to our customers.
At the end of my first year, I’d like to 
express what a tremendous privilege it 
is to work with all of our colleagues at 
Dunelm and I want to thank them for all 
their effort, enthusiasm and dedication 
to making Dunelm a great place to shop 
and work. It is hard to get everything 
right every day, but it is both pleasurable 
and rewarding to find a company which 
is always trying to do the right thing.
Growth Strategy 
When we reported our half year results in 
February, we reiterated our commitment 
to our three-part growth strategy; 
growing like-for-like sales, rolling out new 
stores and growing our home delivery 
channel. We also identified eight key 
initiatives that I believe will enable us to 
achieve this and will be the key method 
by which we improve our business 
substantially for our customers and 
shareholders over the medium term. 
Online
Whilst we continue to work towards 
increasing our store estate to 200 stores, 
we still believe in a multi-channel world 
for homewares and continue to see 
online as a critical part of our shopping 
trip.
We are working on making our website 
easier to access; for example allowing 
customers to browse and order in-
store. We want to make the range and 
relevant content broader and provide an 
improved site experience. We also want 
to provide greater convenience through 
an increase in collection points, times 
and availability.
We have also made progress in multiple 
other areas. The integration of our one-
man fulfilment process into our Stoke 
distribution centre is a significant step 
towards broader fulfilment options. 
We have grown our email database to 
over two million customers, an increase 
of 18%. We have an online Made to 
Measure service, and are building a 
more comprehensive solution, due to be 
launched later this year.
Over the coming year, we are looking 
to extend our range through a new 
DSV (drop shipped vendor) service. We 
are also rolling out tablet devices and 
associated chip and pin payment options 
in-store and are working towards a full 
Click & Collect service.
London
As part of our challenge to find 50 
new stores to reach our 200 target, we 
recognise that London and the South 
East will provide a significant proportion 
of this opportunity.
Encouragingly, we have legally 
committed to nine new stores in the 
coming year, of which three are within 
John Browett Chief Executive
Read more online at  
dunelm.production.investis.com
@
10 dunelm.com Stock code: DNLM                                           
Chief Executive’s Review
Dunelm AR2016-front.indd   10 12/10/2016   09:57:35 24722.04    12 October 2016 7:29 AM   PROOF 5  
the M25; an excellent result given that 
we have only eight stores currently in this 
area.
We are also focusing on improving the 
capability of our colleagues in the region 
and will be looking to increase our online 
participation in London, aided by the 
increased store presence. 
Store Operations 
We have reviewed all activities 
carried out in-store and found several 
opportunities to help our colleagues 
work more effectively. As a result, we 
have reduced hours worked on certain 
tasks in the business, partially to mitigate 
the cost of introducing the National 
Living Wage, but more importantly to 
reinvest back into helping customers, 
improving service and driving sales. 
We see this as a continual process, with 
several rounds of improvements that will 
allow us to continue to reinvest in wages 
and service.
Store Format
Our customers love our stores, but they 
do tell us that we could make them 
easier to shop, particularly in terms of 
navigation and making our displays more 
attractive. 
We are trialling several new category 
merchandising initiatives, and are 
particularly pleased with the work that 
we have done around rugs, lighting and 
the till area. We will continue to roll these 
out across the estate in the coming year. 
We also continue to improve the store 
format design as we open new stores. 
Our recent openings in Nottingham and 
Sheffield in particular reflect a lighter, 
more open environment with lower 
shelving and easier navigation. We are 
aiming to refit around 15 stores in FY17 
in this new format, as well as using the 
format in our new store openings. 
Made to Measure
Made to Measure is a service that 
differentiates us from most of our 
competitors. We manufacture the 
majority of our curtains ourselves and 
offer great value for money. 
We are trialling new operations in-store 
and developing a greater understanding 
of how investment in service, 
presentation and range can enhance 
our offer. We are looking to improve our 
manufacturing performance by creating 
more efficiency in our processes. We 
are also working on a new IT system 
to manage customer orders and make 
things easier for customers. 
Furniture
Dunelm continues to develop its 
furniture offer across all channels. We are 
working hard to deliver new ranges, with 
better quality and greater choice. We are 
trialling new formats in-store using room-
sets and new ways to display products. 
We are also working on an improved 
service model and our new POS system 
will help our colleagues to sell our entire 
range in-store.
Supply Chain
We have successfully opened our new 
warehouse in Stoke, which doubles our 
capacity and provides a purpose-built 
platform for reducing costs over time. 
We are correspondingly reducing our 
third party storage requirements which 
are costly and inefficient. 
We are near the end of the process of 
moving our one-man delivery operation 
into Stoke, which is a precursor to 
moving to a Click & Collect offer. This 
will enhance the attractiveness of our 
online offer by providing greater choice 
and ease to customers. 
We will look to further integrate our 
e-commerce and direct-to-store 
distribution over time. This will enable 
improved availability, productivity and a 
cleaner end of season clearance. 
Stock Management
To meet customer expectations, we rely 
on having full ranges available in-store 
which previously resulted in a high 
stock holding. We are working towards 
reducing the amount of stock that we 
hold whilst improving availability. This 
will make us more efficient and enable us 
to reinvest in the customer offer. 
We have reduced our stock holding by 
£16.5m (12.4%) during the course of 
the year by focussing on sensible retail 
disciplines such as reducing minimum 
order quantities, reducing pack sizes 
and through the better use of order 
replenishment systems. In-store we have 
focused on better stock management, 
both on shelf and back of house, by 
enhancing stock control processes. 
Although we believe we can reduce 
stock levels further in time, we consider 
this to be business as usual and stock 
management will therefore no longer 
form one of our strategic initiatives in 
FY17. 
Product 
Great product is the lifeblood of our 
business. We have started work on  
a new strategic initiative (replacing 
stock management) to further improve 
our product ranges. We see major 
opportunities in product design, 
innovation and sourcing.
The work on product should enable us 
to grow by appealing to a broader set of 
customers across more categories. Our 
sourcing work should also improve our 
value for money proposition. 
Enablers 
While our key initiatives are the 
focus for improving the business for 
customers, there are several initiatives 
we are working on to make the business 
more effective. This work ranges from 
‘Keep it Simple’ changes in the Store 
Support Centre and Contact Centre, to 
developing our IT systems to support 
the key initiatives and customer offer. We 
could also talk at length about the use of 
better customer insight, service and sales 
training in stores and investment in skills 
and training across the Company. 
At Dunelm we are always looking for 
opportunities and working on making 
our business better for customers and a 
more fulfilling place to work. The agenda 
is always ambitious. 
Outlook
Whatever the market brings us, our 
strategy remains unchanged. Indeed, 
we may be able to achieve more in a 
difficult economy. We can’t forecast 
what will happen to the broader market 
but we know we will be busy improving 
our Company, through our self-help 
initiatives and also by continuing to roll-
out and reinvest in our stores. 
As we have seen in previous years, hot 
weather can have a dampening effect on 
footfall, so the start to the new financial 
year has inevitably seen some impact 
here. However, the weather is outside 
of our control and our job is to trade 
through such periods. 
Encouragingly, we believe that we 
continue to outperform the homewares 
market as a whole and therefore are 
confident of continuing to deliver on 
our growth ambitions, including new 
store openings which should number 
at least nine this year. We have the key 
infrastructure in place, the right team, a 
great heritage and a continued focus on 
product and people.
John Browett 
Chief Executive 
14 September 2016
strategic report
11 Dunelm Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the period ended 2 July 2016
Dunelm AR2016-front.indd   11 12/10/2016   09:57:36
