 3
Chief Executive’s review  
The last year has seen continued profitable growth despite the backdrop of a more crowded
and competitive market place. Fee rates are still being driven down as a result of increased
competition, although our speed of delivery and quality of service provides us with a
necessary competitive advantage in many quarters.
Whilst there continue to be new entrants to the market, the barriers to entry are now
increasing and a period of rationalisation is expected in the short term. Encouragingly the
economic outlook in the UK, with increased raw material costs and interest rates, points to
a buoyant 2004 for our industry. We therefore approach the coming year with a good deal of
optimism.
DCF people and systems
We continue to seek out and employ the very best individuals our industry has to offer. In the
second half of 2003 we began to develop an experienced tier of management to provide
senior support to the Board, and this development will continue throughout 2004. We also
maintain our policy of providing an environment that encourages our people to develop their
careers, at the same time investing in the latest systems to deliver a first class service whilst
providing high quality risk management.
2004 sees the introduction of both our new bad debt protection product (arranged via a
back-to-back agreement with the insurer AIG) and a risk-share programme with Lloyds TSB
Commercial Finance. Both of these products not only provide new revenue opportunities but
also widen considerably our target market.
Further improvements to our website and our e-commerce offering will also be made this
year.
Market developments
With improving IT in all sectors, more and more clients are opting for invoice discounting
rather than factoring. Invoice discounting not only has more security issues for the lender
but historically has also been viewed more as a commodity by the marketplace. Ironically,
with more lenders focused on this type of business, an opportunity exists for a fast moving
and flexible lender in the traditional market of factoring where the potential client is far
more concerned about service and the relationship with their funding partner.
Our figures in 2003 would certainly seem to confirm this assertion and so far in 2004 all of
our new business transactions have been factoring. This not only suggests that our
underwriting has remained constant but that both clients and introducers alike recognise
the Dynamic brand as being synonymous with quality of service. Having said that, the launch
of the two products outlined above makes it clear that we are very keen to continue taking
advantage of our reputation for service in the invoice discounting sector.
Outlook 
High activity levels and an increased number of distribution channels combined with a still
fragile UK economy will provide ample opportunities for our company this year. Increased
costs will put pressure on companies’ cash flow, a problem for which factoring is the ideal
solution. Equally, more businesses will require financial restructuring services, which offers
Dynamic the ability to earn higher fees.
After three years trading Dynamic is now a well known and respected brand in our industry.
We have been very successful in attracting good people, who, with the systems we have
developed and new products we have launched, will drive the business forward increasing
our market share in the short to medium-term. The credibility afforded by our stock market
listing allied to the hands-on entrepreneurial approach of our management team make the
Dynamic offering hugely attractive to the ambitious owner-managed business and SME.
Paul Hird
Chief Executive
