 2
Chairman’s statement
Continued growth
In what is an increasingly competitive marketplace, the company continued to grow during
the year as we increased our client base from 159 to 196 clients. Turnover increased by 46%
to £4.2 million (2002: £2.9 million) on total sales financed of £207 million (2002: £148
million) and client commitments of £17.6 million (2002: £15.2 million). The company
produced a profit before tax for the year of £206,000 (2002: loss of £96,000).
Our office in Manchester, opened last year, has expanded, and we now look after almost 40%
of our clients from there. At present, one half of our business development team is based in
the north of the country and we plan to expand the team further in 2004 as good quality
individuals become available. This in turn will enable the company to increase its base of
introducers and write more business.
We have recently launched our bad debt protection product, the take-up of which has been
very encouraging. In the first three months clients have purchased protection for
approaching £40 million of annualised turnover, well ahead of our expectations. This product
has the potential to drive revenue growth, both in its own right and by broadening the market
for our existing products.
I am pleased to announce that we have agreed in principle a risk-share programme with our
banking facility provider, Lloyds TSB Commercial Finance. This will enable us to attract larger
clients without taking on all the risk of the increased commitment.
Management team
I think it is important to give recognition to our management team which has worked
tirelessly during the last three years to grow DCF and to ensure it is equipped with the strong
foundations it needs for its future development. The quality and commitment of the team
has been, and will continue to be, vitally important to DCF and its stakeholders. I would like
to welcome Paul Billett to the team as our Finance Director. Paul joined DCF from
PricewaterhouseCoopers at the time of Nigel Miller’s departure on 1 December 2003.
Outlook
The company’s objectives are aimed at continuing to grow the business quickly and
profitably, without compromising our underwriting standards. Our brand is now well known
and highly regarded in the market. We are positioned well from both a people and systems
perspective to grow our client base, and we expect to be able to do that this year – indeed,
2004 has started well with the addition of 21 new clients during the first two months.
Finally, I would like to thank all the staff for their continued commitment and hard work,
without which the business would not be in the strong position it is today.
Tony Caplin
Chairman
30 March 2004
