 8
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
INTRODUCTION
It has been an especially difficult year, 
with the specific trading pressures we 
reported in the second quarter of the 
year impacting profitability substantially. 
Our focus has been on responding to 
these pressures as well as continuing to 
drive forward our ‘OneDX’ programme.
While we closed the seasonally important 
second half in better shape, there is 
still work to be done. Nonetheless, 
the Board remains confident in its 
ability to negotiate the challenges 
and opportunities and deliver its 
strategy for the medium term. 
REVIEW OF ACTIVITIES
Our largest activity, Parcels and freight, 
delivered a better revenue performance 
than the prior year, helped by strong 
growth in our Courier service. However 
revenues at our Mail and packets 
operation contracted, with higher than 
expected levels of volume attrition at 
DX Exchange significantly impacting 
Group profitability. While Logistics saw 
revenue decrease after exiting low margin 
contracts, it won a major contract with 
IKEA which we expect to grow further. 
Profitability in the first half of the year 
was, as we reported, additionally hit by 
a shortage of suitably qualified drivers. 
This shortage is an industry-wide issue 
and stems from new legislation requiring 
drivers operating goods vehicles of 
over 3.5 tonnes to obtain a Certificate 
of Professional Competence (“CPC”) 
qualification. The shortage caused 
both an increase in driver costs, with 
agency drivers being used, and an 
additional rise in delivery costs as, in 
the absence of CPC-qualified drivers, 
smaller transit vans were used in place 
of goods vehicles to maintain customer 
service. While the temporary additional 
costs have been removed, ongoing 
driver costs are much higher, reflecting 
the shortages across the industry.
We highlighted the slow conversion 
of the new business pipeline in the 
parcels operation in the second 
quarter of the year, which impacted 
Group profitability. Since then we have 
invested further in our sales capability, 
restructuring the teams. The sales 
pipeline at the close of the financial year 
is above the level of the prior year and 
we are also focused on cross-selling 
opportunities across our services. 
PARCELS AND FREIGHT
This operation comprises three core 
services: DX 1-Man, specialising 
in irregular dimension and weight 
(“IDW”) items; DX Courier, providing 
next-day parcel services mostly 
for the B2B market; and DX 2-Man, 
offering a B2C home delivery solution 
for heavier and bulkier items. 
Revenue from Parcels and freight 
increased by 3.4% year-on-year to 
£159.3 million and accounted for 55.3% 
of total revenue (2015: 51.8%). Growth 
was led by DX Courier, which increased 
sales by 12.6% and has developed a 
strong presence in a number of sectors 
including pharmaceuticals, optical, 
public sector and retail. Overall revenue 
growth was somewhat dampened 
by the reduction in fuel surcharges 
with lower oil prices, and by the run-
off from the exit of commercially 
unattractive contracts at DX 1-Man 
and DX 2-Man last year. However, DX 
2-Man secured some significant wins 
in the second half which will benefit 
the new financial year and there are 
attractive opportunities for DX 1-Man. 
We launched DX2Me, a tracking 
application that enables consumers 
to track their deliveries in real time 
and to pre-book delivery slots in 
our DX 2-Man service, and we will 
continue to focus on initiatives to 
improve the customer experience.
£159.3m
REVENUE
55%
 
PARCELS AND FREIGHT
£113.8m
REVENUE
40%
 
MAIL AND PACKETS
£14.8m
REVENUE
5%
 
LOGISTICS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
There is still work to be done but the Board is 
confident in its ability to negotiate the near-term 
challenges and deliver its strategy for the 
medium term.
PETAR CVETKOVIC
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 9
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
MAIL AND PACKETS
This operation comprises three core 
services: DX Exchange, a B2B mail service 
providing its customers with extended 
collection and delivery times; DX 
Secure, which provides market-leading 
levels of security; and DX Mail, a low 
cost mail service offering Downstream 
access for smaller volume users. 
Revenues from Mail and packets 
decreased by 2.2% to £113.8 million and 
accounted for 39.5% of total revenue 
(2015: 39.1%). As previously highlighted, 
DX Exchange – whose customers are 
mainly from the legal, governmental, 
financial and healthcare sectors (both 
public and private) – experienced a 
higher than anticipated level of revenue 
attrition in the first half, leading to a 
management revision of forecasts for 
the year. Renewals in the second half, 
which includes April, an important 
renewal month in the governmental 
sector, were in line with management 
expectations. Revenue for the year from 
DX Exchange showed a decline of 10.1% 
compared to 5.4% in 2015. This decline 
significantly impacted profitability since 
the service has a mainly fixed cost base; 
deliveries and collections are made to 
all 4,500 document exchanges around 
the UK and Ireland every morning and 
every evening, largely irrespective of 
the volume of mail or the number of 
customers. Volume erosion is expected 
to continue, with digitisation and 
electronic communications driving 
this trend, but DX Exchange remains a 
valuable service to its customers and 
we will seek to support renewal levels 
with high levels of customer service.
In order to prolong the economic life of 
the DX Exchange service in Scotland as 
a competitor to Royal Mail, in May 2016 
we acquired the trade and assets of The 
Legal Post (Scotland) Limited (“Legal 
Post”) and First Post Limited (“First 
Post”) for a total cash consideration 
of £3.25 million. Legal Post provides a 
document exchange and postal service 
in Scotland, and First Post operates 
a Downstream access mail service in 
Scotland. The acquired operations on a 
standalone basis generate £0.6 million 
CASE STUDY
TRUSTED PARTNER  
TO IKEA
IKEA wanted to find a new partner to support 
its next stage of development and invited DX  
to tender, attracted by our broad range of 
capabilities and service focus. 
After a successful tender, DX was 
awarded a contract to manage IKEA’s 
home deliveries for its online store in 
two regions across the UK. In choosing 
DX, IKEA highlighted our:
• strong focus on the customer 
experience 
• shared values and culture 
• transparent cost approach 
• open communications
• flexibility 
• diverse service capability
IKEA was so impressed with our 
solution, partnership approach and 
performance that they invited us to 
support the home delivery service for 
the new store in Reading – IKEA’s first 
new store opening in the UK for seven 
years. We were awarded the contract 
and were delighted to support the 
store’s opening in July 2016.  10
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
9% £130k 
CASE STUDY
LAUNCH  
OF ‘DX 
PARCEL 
EXCHANGE’
Alternative collection 
points are a growing 
trend in the retail 
industry. IMRG, the UK’s 
industry association for 
online retail, reports 
further increases in 
consumer use of ‘click 
and collect’ services, 
which are now used for 
23%
1
 of online purchases.
Similarly, there has been a significant 
increase in the take up of third-party secure 
collection points as a delivery option. 
Third-party collection points are now used 
by 14%
1
 of online shoppers.
DX launched ‘DX Parcel Exchange’ in 
September 2015 and it now offers 
consumers over 1,000 collection points 
across the UK. DX has developed this 
capability in partnership with InPost, 
utilising InPost’s ‘intelligent lockers’ system 
and manned locations in key sites across 
the country. The popularity of these types 
of services is growing due to their simplicity 
and 24-hour accessibility. 
For online retailers and traditional retailers 
seeking to add further capability to their 
retail offering, DX’s ‘Parcel Exchange’ 
network can provide a UK-wide collection 
footprint for ‘Click and Collect’ services.
Source:
1 IMRG UK Consumer Home Delivery Review 2016.
REDUCTION IN CO
2
 EMISSIONS 
COMPARED TO THE PREVIOUS YEAR
OVER £130K RAISED IN THREE YEARS 
FOR SCOTTY’S LITTLE SOLDIERS 11
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
of EBITDA on £5.2 million of revenue. 
They made a one month contribution 
of £0.5 million in revenue to the Group’s 
full year results. We believe that there 
is an attractive opportunity to combine 
our respective services to deliver both 
customer and operational benefits. We 
estimate that if fully integrated, cost 
savings from the removal of duplicate 
routes and exchanges can deliver an 
additional £0.6 million of annualised 
EBITDA. In July 2016, the Competition & 
Markets Authority (“CMA”) commenced a 
review of the acquisition, serving an Initial 
Enforcement Order at the same time, 
which halted our integration process. 
However, as reported on 16 September, 
this order has been revoked and we are 
now continuing with the combination to 
deliver the expected customer service 
enhancements and cost savings.
DX Secure increased revenues by 9.0% 
year-on-year, aided by good growth 
in both existing and new accounts. 
As previously reported, our contract 
with Her Majesty’s Passport Office, 
which was extended to July 2016, is 
now under tender and we anticipate 
an outcome in October 2016.
‘DX Parcel Exchange’, which we 
launched in the first half, has been 
well received by customers. Offering a 
market-leading ‘pick up and drop off’ 
solution, using the networks of other 
third party providers, it comprises over 
1,000 delivery and collection points 
at supermarkets, petrol stations, retail 
parks and other manned locations. 
LOGISTICS
DX Logistics provides a full outsourcing 
service to customers who wish to 
outsource their vehicle fleet operations, 
with DX able to provide additional services. 
Revenue from Logistics services reduced 
by £12.2 million to £14.8 million and 
accounted for 5.1% of total revenue 
(2015: 9.1%). The reduction reflected 
the cessation of low margin contracts 
early in the year. However, we also 
secured a major contract with IKEA 
in the year to support its operations 
in London and the Midlands. We also 
supported the opening of IKEA’s 
new site in Reading this summer.
‘ONEDX’ PROGRAMME
Our ‘OneDX’ programme has three 
goals; improved customer service, 
the creation of an optimised network, 
and the unification of our services 
onto a single operating platform, all 
supported by strong IT capability. 
The major part of our capital expenditure 
over the year was focused on our IT 
infrastructure. We continued to invest 
in our new routing and scheduling 
system, which brings greater service 
and operational benefits through 
‘dynamic routing’. As previously 
highlighted, the roll-out is in phases 
and is expected to continue over the 
next 18 months. We also made good 
progress with our next generation 
‘OneDX’ telephony and contact 
management system, with installation 
approaching completion. The solution 
provides us with the ability to view a 
customer across voice, email, webchat 
and social media, and will help to drive 
service standards as well as future 
innovation in customer engagement. 
We also continued to invest in our site 
network and during the year opened 
three new service centres in Norwich, 
Bristol and Motherwell. The opening of 
these new larger sites has enabled us to 
close six smaller sites. Since 30 June 2016
we have opened a service centre in 
Swanley which will enable us to close a 
further five sites. Our plans to develop 
a major new central hub at a 44-acre 
site in the West Midlands were stalled 
in May when our planning application 
for its development was turned down. 
As we have reported, our purchase of 
this site was conditional on planning 
consent and we have now submitted 
and commenced public consultations in 
regard to a revised planning application. 
We are also considering other sites.
COLLEAGUES
I would like to thank all my colleagues 
at DX for their hard work over the year 
and to welcome new members of the 
DX team. I would also like to add my 
personal thanks to Ian Pain, our long-
standing Group Chief Financial Officer, 
who will be leaving the Company at the 
end of October, and to congratulate 
our Finance Director, Daljit Basi, 
on his promotion to the Board.
OUTLOOK
We continue to take positive steps 
to address the Group’s performance 
and to support this we are making 
further targeted investment in IT and 
sales. While there are still uncertainties 
ahead as we await the outcome of 
the HMPO tender process and our 
planning appeal, we have confidence 
that our business transformation 
plans will deliver long term benefits. 
PETAR CVETKOVIC
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
5 OCTOBER 2016
