 4
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
BOB HOLT
CHAIRMAN
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We are focused on returning the business  
to more acceptable levels of profitability.
RESULTS OVERVIEW 
After a challenging first half, when 
profitability was significantly impacted 
– principally by higher than expected 
volume erosion at DX Exchange 
and cost pressures – the Group has 
delivered an improved performance 
in the second half of the financial year. 
This reflected management actions to 
address the trading issues of the first 
half. DX’s full year results are in line with 
revised management expectations. 
Revenues totalled £287.9 million for 
the year (2015: £297.5 million). Earnings 
before interest, tax, depreciation and 
amortisation (“EBITDA”) were £18.0 
million (2015: £33.7 million) and adjusted 
profit before tax and exceptional items 
was £11.5 million (2015: £26.7 million). 
The Group generated adjusted earnings 
per share of 4.9p (2015: 10.9p). These 
results are stated before exceptional 
items of £92.1 million, which mainly 
comprised a non-cash impairment charge 
of £88.4 million after conducting a review 
of goodwill following the decline in profit. 
The balance of exceptional items was 
£3.3 million of written-off costs relating 
to the proposed new central hub in the 
West Midlands, and a £0.4 million charge 
relating to share-based payments, a non-
cash item. DX closed the year with net 
debt of £9.8 million (2015: £1.8 million). 
On a statutory basis, the loss before tax 
was £82.7 million (2015: profit of £24.8 
million) and the loss per share was 42.1p 
(2015: earnings per share of 9.9p).
A detailed review of the Group’s financial 
results is provided in the Chief Financial 
Officer’s Review.
DIVIDEND
The Board is pleased to confirm a 
proposed final dividend of 1.5p per 
share (2015: 4p per share), in line with 
the commitment given at the half year. 
Together with the interim dividend of 
1.0p per share, paid on 3 June 2016, this 
takes the total dividend for the year to 
2.5p per share (2015: 6.0p per share).
The final dividend, which is subject to 
shareholder approval, will be paid on 
13 December 2016 to shareholders on 
the register on 11 November 2016. 
TRADING OVERVIEW 
As we previously reported, the Group’s 
profitability has been substantially 
impacted by three major factors. The 
most significant of these was an increase, 
above that expected, in volume erosion 
at the DX Exchange operation, our 
bespoke secure document handling 
service. As we have highlighted 
previously, this business is subject to 
e-substitution and has a largely fixed 
cost base. Nonetheless, it remains an 
important, cost-effective service to both 
public and private sector companies, 
especially for the legal, financial and 
healthcare sectors. In May, we acquired 
the trade and assets of a Scottish 
counterpart, The Legal Post (Scotland) 
Limited and First Post Limited, and, 
following the revocation of an order by 
the Competition and Markets Authority in 
early September, we are now combining 
these assets within our own operations 
in Scotland, which will enhance customer 
service and generate savings.
The major cost base pressure in the first 
half arose from a shortage of drivers 
certified with a Certificate of Professional 
Competence (“CPC”). As well as having 
a direct cost impact, it also materially 
affected operational efficiencies and 
so further increased the Group’s overall 
costs of delivery. We have addressed 
and stabilised these issues although 
driver costs have risen nonetheless. This 
reflects the sector-wide shortage of CPC-
qualified drivers – an issue our industry 
trade bodies continue to highlight.  5
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
We made solid progress with our ‘OneDX’ 
programme over the year. This major 
programme is driving an organisational 
transformation and bringing together 
all our operations onto a common 
operating platform, with the latest 
technology supporting systems and 
processes. A key component includes 
the phased implementation of a new 
routing and scheduling system across 
our operations. At the same time, we 
are also optimising and developing 
our site network, with the goal of 
delivering both strong customer service 
benefits and operational efficiencies. 
As we have previously reported, we 
intend to develop a major new UK 
distribution hub and, last year, agreed 
the purchase of a 44-acre site in the West 
Midlands, subject to obtaining planning 
consent. Unfortunately, as previously 
announced, at a hearing in mid-May 2016 
the local authority declined our planning 
application. We are now proceeding with 
an appeal of this decision and have 
commenced public consultation in regard 
to a revised planning application. We are 
also considering suitable alternative sites. 
BOARD AND COLLEAGUES 
After nearly ten years in his role, Ian Pain, 
Chief Financial Officer, has decided 
to step down and will be leaving the 
Company at the end of October. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to 
thank Ian for his tremendous contribution 
to DX over this time and wish him well 
in his new ventures. I am delighted to 
welcome Daljit Basi, Finance Director, 
who has now joined the Board. 
In an exceptionally challenging year, 
the DX team has responded with 
determination and energy, and I would 
like to thank everyone for the hard work 
and commitment they have shown. 
OUTLOOK
We remain focused on the ongoing 
delivery on our ‘OneDX’ programme, 
sales execution and cost control. While 
the outcome of the HMPO tender 
process and our planning appeal have 
yet to conclude, we expect to be in a 
position to provide a further update on 
their progress by the end of November. 
DX is primarily a UK operation with 97% 
of its revenues and 98% of its costs 
arising in the UK and denominated in 
sterling. The exception is a wholly-owned 
subsidiary trading solely in the Republic 
of Ireland. The UK’s decision to leave the 
European Union is not anticipated to 
impact on DX’s trading performance 
other than to the extent that the UK 
economy as a whole is affected. 
BOB HOLT
CHAIRMAN
