 Overview
4
e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Strong progress  
in Discovery
Progress in Discovery
Following the substantial investment in 
2013, e-Therapeutics’ discovery platform 
has been developed from a prototype or 
‘academic’ system into a highly efficient, 
engineered production system, which is 
now in full operation. 
Our approach to drug discovery 
continues to yield a high number of 
potent compounds across multiple 
indications, delivered in a significantly 
shorter timeframe and at lower cost than 
traditional drug discovery approaches. 
We have identified thousands of active 
molecules in medically and commercially 
important areas. During the year, we 
undertook twelve active projects (FY15: six) 
and three projects (FY15: nil) are in lead 
optimisation. 
The disparity between the ‘hit rate’ of 
our platform and the published hit rates 
for older approaches to drug discovery 
remains strikingly high. Our projects’ 
average hit rate is around 25%, whereas 
conventional hit rates range around 0.01% 
(e.g. Bender A. Curr. Op. Drug Disc. & Dev., 
2008) – a disparity in our favour of some 
2,500 times. 
Among the molecules generated in this 
way, there are:
• Telomerase inhibitors which are  
about 1,000 times more potent in killing 
cancer cells than the previous best small 
molecules; 
• Hedgehog pathway (cancer) inhibitors 
with nanomolar potency, which do 
not bind the protein ‘SMO’, potentially 
addressing drug resistance to current 
products;
• Potent broad-spectrum antivirals, active 
against multiple rather than single 
strains of influenza. 
 
Our approach to 
drug discovery 
continues to yield 
a high number of 
potent compounds 
across multiple 
indications, delivered 
in a significantly 
shorter timeframe 
and at lower cost 
than traditional 
drug discovery 
approaches.”
Chief Executive Officer's statement
The Company sustained a high level of activity throughout the year, 
particularly in Discovery. We also reported preliminary analysis of 
clinical data on our anti-depression programme, ETS6103, which 
is reported definitively later in this report. The infused version 
of ETS2101 entered Phase Ib and we have detailed new evidence 
which is pivoting our interest to a possible oral doseform. Our cash 
resources were £24.8m at the end of the year and we anticipate 
receipt of an R&D tax credit of £2.5m relating to R&D spend incurred 
in the year. The Company remains well funded.
The most advanced of our discovery projects, 
in telomerase inhibition, hedgehog pathway 
inhibition and anti-TNFα (a key inflammatory 
cytokine) are now in lead optimisation.  
The expectation is that the most advanced 
will enter formal preclinical evaluation later  
this year.
Advantages of our platform
As we accumulate more data, we are 
increasingly confident that our discovery 
process improves fundamentally on the 
traditional approach to drug discovery, both 
in terms of time/cost and in its ability to 
identify active and highly potent compounds. 
Our experience suggests that we can 
progress from project initiation to 
identification and adoption of a lead 
compound in 24 months. This compares 
to industry statistics that suggest a time 
frame of anywhere between 3 and 5 years 
to the same end. In the discovery phase of 
each preclinical project, we typically identify 
many potent compounds across multiple 
chemotypes. We believe that this breadth 
increases the probability that each project 
will successfully progress. 
The agility of our platform means that we 
can now respond quickly and effectively to 
commercial opportunities. One example 
is that we are now generating small 
molecules in aspects of immuno-oncology 
as diverse as checkpoint inhibition, tumour 
microenvironment immune-potentiation, 
and control of systemic inflammatory 
response syndrome (SIRS – which is a 
very serious side effect of many advanced 
immunotherapies which may limit their 
practical use). We aim shortly to have the 
most comprehensive such programme 
available anywhere. 
Similarly, our small molecule broad-
spectrum antiviral programme has been 
focussed on dangerous influenza viruses, 
but is readily extensible to other pressing 
antiviral needs, such as Zika, Ebola and JCV 
(John Cunningham Virus). Overview
5
Overview Financial statements Governance
e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2016
2015/2016 
in summary
ETS2101
Three Phase Ia trials completed, 
examining oral formulation for  
further exploration
ETS6103
Phase IIb trial completed
5,600
5,600 molecules in in vitro testing,  
with an average ‘hit rate’ of 25%
DISCOVERY
Twelve active projects,  
three in lead optimisation
£24.8M
Cash resources at 31 January 2016
Commercialisation is the priority
We are now focussing our efforts on 
commercialising both our preclinical and 
clinical assets, and our platform approach 
to drug discovery. Our work in this area 
has increased in the second half of the last 
financial year and the level of activity and 
focus will continue at a high level for the 
foreseeable future. 
Development programmes
ETS6103
In February 2016, we gave a preliminary 
update following the unblinding of 
the Phase IIb trial data. Since initial 
examination, in-depth analysis has now 
shown that the profile we hoped to have 
for the compound has been achieved. 
This trial was focused on major depressive 
disorder that is refractory or relapsing 
from first-line treatment with an SSRI 
(a class of drugs often used as first-line 
antidepressants). The randomised, double-
blind study was conducted in Glasgow. The 
study enrolled a total of 383 patients. 164 
patients who did not respond adequately 
to the first-line SSRI treatment (citalopram) 
were then randomised into one of three 
study arms, which included two doses  
of ETS6103 and one of amitriptyline. 
Patients were dosed over an eight-week 
treatment period.
Our aim was to determine whether 
ETS6103:  
 
(i) is an antidepressant, 
(ii) is capable of treating patients for   
 whom SSRI treatment has not  
 been successful, 
(iii)  could have a low therapeutic dose,   
 consistent with a low tolerance and  
 side effect burden, so that...
(iv) ...it has a more benign side effect and 
 tolerance profile than current 
 treatment with a tricyclic 
 antidepressant, such as amitriptyline.  Overview
6
e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer's statement continued
HCC in combination with SoC; eight into 
pancreatic in combination with SoC; 
twelve into HCC relapsed or refractory 
monotherapy; and 19 into pancreatic 
relapsed or refractory monotherapy. 
The presence of Cremophor in the infusion 
formulation requires that patients are 
pre-treated with dexamethasone because 
of its irritant side effects. Recent data show 
that ETS2101 can selectively modulate pro-
immune cytokines, an effect that is likely to 
be suppressed by dexamethasone. We are 
therefore examining closely factors around 
an oral, or other non-steroid, formulation 
for further exploration of ETS2101, and 
therefore will bring the Phase Ib study  
to an orderly close. 
Summary
Overall, the output from our discovery 
platform continues to progress very 
strongly. We have three discovery 
programmes with differentiated candidate 
molecules in lead optimisation and a 
fully operational and highly productive 
discovery platform that will continue to 
deliver valuable molecules. Realising the 
value of these projects is our priority, and 
we are now focused on partnering our 
programmes. We remain well funded  
for all our activities. 
Malcolm Young
Chief Executive Officer
21 March 2016 
An earlier small pilot trial showed that 
ETS6103 was an effective antidepressant, 
with non-inferiority in efficacy (p<0.05) 
compared to amitriptyline when ETS6103 
was given at a higher dose (200-400mg). 
The recent Phase IIb trial also evaluated 
non-inferiority to amitriptyline even though, 
in this case, the doses of ETS6103 were 
much lower.
The results were:
(i) ETS6103 is an antidepressant: 
• MADRS scores of patients in the 
ETS6103 arms improved significantly 
over the period of the trial (p<0.0001  
for both 70mg and 20mg); 
• All other depression scores showed the 
same strong effect (for 70mg: CGI-S  
p<10
-6
, and HAM-D p<10
-14
); 
• 32% of patients taking 70mg ETS6103 
responded, showing a decrease from 
baseline MADRS greater than 50% (28% 
for 20mg ETS6103);
• 20% of 70mg ETS6103 patients went 
into remission (MADRS score below 11) 
(13% on 20mg ETS6103); 
• Neither the response rate nor the 
remission rate for 70mg ETS6103 
differed statistically from those of 
amitriptyline (p>0.3 for response rate, 
and p>0.15 for remission).
(ii) ETS6103 is capable of treating some  
 depressed patients who did not   
 respond to SSRI treatment: all the  
 patients in (i) had previously not 
 responded adequately to the  
 SSRI citalopram;
(iii) ETS6103 at even low (20mg and  
 70mg) doses generated the results 
 in (i) above;
(iv) ETS6103 generated fewer 
 treatment emergent adverse events 
 than amitriptyline. Specifically, 
 there were fewer adverse events 
 overall, fewer gastrointestinal 
 disorders, and fewer nervous system 
 disorders than for amitriptyline.
As regards efficacy alone, while response 
and remission rates for 70mg ETS6103 
did not differ statistically from those for 
amitriptyline, the two low doses of ETS6103 
(20mg and 70mg) were not statistically 
non-inferior to amitriptyline. However, the 
overall benefit to patients who have not 
responded to an SSRI, taking account of 
response and remission rates together 
with a better side effect and tolerance 
profile when compared to amitriptyline, 
implies that ETS6103 may be an attractive 
therapeutic option for these patients. 
We have previously indicated that if the 
trial were successful we would look to out-
licence ETS6103. Our conclusion is that the 
results support the target product profile of 
ETS6103 that we hoped to have. ETS6103 
does indeed benefit SSRI-non-responders, 
and it does so with a better side effect and 
tolerance burden than other post-SSRI 
antidepressants, such as amitriptyline.  
In the context of a need for effective 
and less toxic antidepressants for those 
who are not treated successfully with 
SSRIs, ETS6103's profile may represent 
an additional treatment option for some 
patients, and we are progressing potential 
out-licensing steps.
ETS2101
During the year we completed three 
Phase Ia studies in the UK and US 
and commenced Phase Ib trials in 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 
pancreatic cancer, across multiple 
locations. The first patient in these trials 
was dosed in May 2015. All of these 
trials employed an infusion formulation 
containing Cremophor. We have 
determined the maximum tolerated  
dose (MTD) for this form as 30mg/kg. 
The current Phase Ib trial is investigating 
the safety, tolerability and anti-tumour 
activity of ETS2101 with the infusion 
formulation. Both the HCC and pancreatic 
cancer trials involve two arms: either 
in combination with the standard of 
care (SoC) for newly diagnosed HCC 
or pancreatic cancer patients or as a 
monotherapy in patients with primary  
HCC or pancreatic cancer who have 
relapsed or refractory disease. Eight 
patients have been enrolled into the  
