 Overview
2
e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Focus, Partner  
and Commercialise
To Focus, Partner and Commercialise 
I believe e-Therapeutics is at the cutting 
edge of science, has an excellent share 
register and is at a pivotal point in its 
development. Over a number of years, 
the Company has developed and refined 
its network pharmacology discovery 
platform. The team, led by Professor 
Malcolm Young, believes it now has the 
capability to provide the pharmaceutical 
and biotech industry with access to a 
highly efficient, proprietary ‘drug discovery 
engine’, which can enable and accelerate 
the identification of novel compounds in 
significant areas of unmet medical need.  
In my view, our mantra going forward 
should be to “Focus, Partner and 
Commercialise” to realise value for 
shareholders.
The core strength of the business lies  
in our novel discovery capability 
Since originally identifying our first lead 
development compounds, substantial 
investment has enabled us to accelerate 
the development and expand the 
Company’s discovery capabilities and 
infrastructure. The platform is now 
the core focus for the business as it 
provides fast and accurate data enabling 
the identification of highly potent novel 
compounds which have the potential to 
be ‘game changers’ in established multiple, 
billion dollar markets. 
We have continued with further analysis of 
the data since our preliminary examination 
of the ETS6103 Phase IIb results. The data 
confirm the predicted antidepressant 
activity of the compound and a detailed 
analysis is included in the Chief Executive 
Officer’s statement on page 4. We will 
not further fund the development of this 
program in the absence of a partner. 
Accordingly, the management is currently 
assessing the viability of the options for 
partnering this programme.
I believe that 
e-Therapeutics’  
time has come.” 
Chairman’s statement
In January of this year, I was delighted to be appointed as Chairman 
of the e-Therapeutics Board. During my short tenure, I have been 
impressed with the competence and skills of the management and 
staff, and also with the commitment of the shareholders and the 
Company’s advisers. In my view, e-Therapeutics is entering  
an exciting new chapter. 
In respect of ETS2101, we commenced 
a Phase Ib trial mid-year using an 
infusion formulation in hepatocellular 
cancer and pancreatic cancer. Recent 
evidence indicates the possibility that a 
different dosage form of ETS2101 may 
be preferable, as outlined in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s statement. We intend 
therefore to bring clinical trials using the 
infusion formulation to an orderly close 
in order to explore potentially superior 
routes of administration.
Beyond these older assets, the real core 
strength of this business lies in its novel 
discovery capability. This is where we 
intend to increasingly focus our efforts. 
By partnering we will accelerate the 
productivity of our discovery engine
The key challenge over the next 18-24 
months will be to further validate our 
novel discovery platform by entering 
collaborations with established industry 
partners who can financially and 
commercially translate the outputs  
of our platform into meaningful and 
important medicines.
By not going it alone, we can considerably 
reduce the development risk; at the same 
time, we can increase the probability of 
success by engaging with appropriate 
partners with specific expertise in the  
most appropriate therapeutics sectors.  
As a result, we have already started to 
target and engage with a number of 
potential partners. We recognise that  
it will take time and patience to be able  
to secure material partnerships. 
We need to be fit for purpose  
and flexible
Over the next few months we intend to 
build our in-house business development 
capabilities so that we will be in a better 
position to identify and engage with key  Overview
3
Overview Financial statements Governance
e-Therapeutics plc Annual report and accounts 2016
industry players and work effectively 
towards securing meaningful partnerships. 
We will need to maintain a degree of 
flexibility in terms of the timing and stage 
at which we secure partnerships and 
collaborations. The value inherent in our 
discovery projects and platform could 
be unlocked via preclinical out-licensing 
deals, early stage clinical development 
deals or discovery collaborations, providing 
important validation and portfolio 
diversification. 
In parallel with business development 
activities, our intellectual property portfolio 
will continue to be strengthened and 
broadened and we will take the necessary 
steps to protect our portfolio going 
forward as it is an inherent component 
of our enterprise value.
Strengthened Board for 
commercialisation chapter
During the period, Professor Trevor Jones 
joined the Board. He not only brings 
long scientific and R&D experience, 
but his acute insight and knowledge of 
the pharmaceutical industry will prove 
invaluable as we seek to market our 
capabilities. The Board and management 
will continue to evolve and strengthen to 
meet the challenges before us.
I believe that e-Therapeutics’ time has 
come and I look forward to working 
with the Board and management 
team to deliver some transformational 
relationships, which will ensure and 
enhance shareholder value. 
Iain G. Ross
Chairman
21 March 2016
The real core 
strength of this 
business lies in its 
novel discovery 
capability. This is 
where we intend to 
increasingly focus 
our efforts.”
