 06 | 
Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016
It is the Board’s belief that Tim’s 
appointment will drive the business 
bigger, better and faster as we enter the 
next stage of Eagle Eye’s development. I 
am also delighted that Phill Blundell 
remains with the business to concentrate 
on delivering operational scale and 
accelerated execution, building on the 
foundations already in place.
Tim joined Eagle Eye in January 2016 as 
Non-Executive Chairman. Since that 
time he has gained a deep understanding 
of Eagle Eye’s business, products, 
strategy and culture. Tim brings more 
than 30 years’ experience within the 
grocery and retail industries, with a 
strong background in strategic marketing 
and customer loyalty. Tim’s wealth of 
experience and network, both 
domestically and internationally, as well 
as his knowledge of Eagle Eye mean that 
he is uniquely placed to lead the Group 
into the next phase of its growth. 
“ Eagle Eye exited 2016 with 
growth and momentum 
from both its existing 
customer base and two  
new Tier 1 grocers. The  
new significant wins are  
a major endorsement  
of the benefits of the Eagle 
Eye AIR platform that is  
now proven and scalable.”
Malcolm Wall 
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
In September, post the Period end,  
I was delighted to accept the position  
of Non-Executive Chairman of Eagle Eye, 
with Tim Mason becoming our new  
Chief Executive.
In his new role, Phill Blundell, previously 
Chief Executive Officer, now Deputy 
Chief Executive Officer will focus on 
bolstering the operational capability for 
scale, building on the UK business 
opportunity and developing an 
international growth strategy.
The international opportunity for Eagle 
Eye was opened up in North America 
following the significant contract win with 
Loblaw, the Group’s first overseas Tier 1 
grocery customer, in February 2016.  
This contract is now underway with the 
implementation of Eagle Eye AIR within 
Loblaw and Phill’s move strengthens 
Eagle Eye’s capability to capitalise on  
the significant international market 
opportunity, of which the North American 
market is estimated to be worth over $84 
billion, according to Cadent Consulting 
Group and Raymond James. 
We are confident that these changes will 
deepen and strengthen the management 
team to deliver against our overall 
ambitions to be a leading global platform 
in digital marketing.  Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016 | 07
http://www.eagleeye.com
A year of strategic and  
operational progress
Overall the Board is pleased with the 
significant progress made during the year. 
Although revenues in the year have not 
matched expectations, the significant 
contracts won and the developments to 
our software platform mean that we have 
growth and momentum going into FY17.
The key highlights in the year included 
Asda rolling out our software platform 
across their entire retail estate, coupled 
with the contract with Sainsbury’s 
announced at the beginning of the 
financial year which together extends our 
reach in the UK grocery industry to over 
30%. February’s contract win with 
Loblaw, the Canadian market leader with 
circa 40% of the grocery market, shows 
the international potential for Eagle Eye, 
with this prestigious client choosing us 
against global leading software 
businesses. Finally, increased 
transactions on our software platform in 
the food and beverage (“F&B”) market 
further cements our position as market 
leader in this sector. These successes 
validate our belief that consumer 
marketing is transferring to digital 
channels and we are uniquely well 
placed to drive this transformation.
On behalf of the Board, I want to thank 
the team for their commitment, hard 
work and major steps forward this year 
both in terms of contractual wins and 
further developing the platform for the 
next stage of growth.
Outlook
Eagle Eye exited FY16 with growth  
and momentum from both its existing 
customer base and two new Tier 1 
grocers. The new significant wins are  
a major endorsement of the benefits  
of the Eagle Eye AIR platform that is now 
proven and scalable. 
This momentum gives visibility of revenue 
for the first quarter of the financial year 
ending 30 June 2017 to be at least  
65% up on prior year at approximately 
£2.2 million. This level of growth and 
momentum gives the Board confidence 
early in the financial year on delivering 
against management’s expectations.
The year-end cash position, coupled 
with the £1.5 million revolving loan facility 
agreed with Barclays Bank PLC in June 
2016, provides the business with 
adequate funding to deliver against its 
current 2017 targets.
Malcolm Wall
Chairman
20 September 2016
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
