 08 | 
Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016
Tim Mason
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’s review
“ I have confidence that 
the coming year will  
see significant progress 
and value creation for  
our shareholders.”
When I joined the Board of Eagle Eye in 
January 2016 as Non-Executive Chairman,  
I saw the potential for this business to drive 
transformational change in an industry  
that I have worked in all my career.
It is rare you come across a business 
that has both a vision and the 
technology to truly change the way a 
sector works, but Eagle Eye excited  
me on both counts. Given this, I was 
delighted to have the opportunity to 
become the Group’s new CEO in 
September, post the Period end. 
Earlier in my career I was instrumental  
in the change of consumer marketing 
through the use of data and now I see 
another opportunity for transformation 
through the use of real-time digital 
capability.
The world of promotions and rewards 
has to date been driven by imperfect 
historical data using mechanics that are 
rarely consumer friendly. Eagle Eye  
has brought a clear vision that 
promotions and rewards will become 
digital, real-time and personalised, 
bringing clear benefits to both retailers 
and their consumers. Our significant 
contract wins and increasing volumes 
through the platform during the Period, 
demonstrate that our network is driving 
this transformation. 
Growing market opportunity
The market for digital coupons continues 
to grow with the latest figures from 
Juniper Research estimating that  
31 billion eCoupons will be redeemed 
worldwide in 2019, up from 16 billion in 
2014, and there will be 1.05 billion mobile 
coupon users worldwide by 2019. 
Further, during the Period we have 
extended our product offer to also 
support the loyalty market, an industry 
worth $100 billion globally. Existing 
customers like Mitchells & Butlers 
(“M&B”) and Greggs are already using 
this new capability and we expect other 
clients to follow.
It is our firm belief that traditional forms 
of loyalty have become tired as 
consumers become resistant to the 
same offers and rewards delivered after 
the event using analogue channels. 
Given the “always on” world of social 
media and mobile communications, 
consumers are looking for relevant, 
timely and personalised rewards that 
add real value to their lives. This is the 
view shared across Eagle Eye and the 
development of our software platform 
supports the new reality with us having 
the ability to close the loop, delivering 
the right offer to the right person at the 
right time, thereby maximising uptake 
from consumers and improving their 
loyalty to brands. Furthermore, we 
provide a data feed into our customers’ 
big data bases.  Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016 | 09
http://www.eagleeye.com
Our first overseas Tier 1 grocery 
customer, Loblaw, gives us an entry  
to the lucrative North American market  
for both promotions and loyalty that  
is estimated to be worth in excess of  
$84 billion. With a flagship client such  
as Loblaw, the opportunity to capitalise 
in this renowned international arena for 
our sector is significant.
Strong strategic momentum
Tier 1 grocers
At the start of the Period, the Group 
announced the Sainsbury’s contract win 
which, further to the contract with Asda 
in the prior year cemented our market 
position in the UK with these two major 
customers accounting for more than 
30% of the grocery market. The 
implementation phase with Sainsbury’s 
is on track and we continue to deepen 
our relationship with this client.
In February 2016, Asda completed its 
nationwide rollout of the Eagle Eye AIR 
platform. Redemption volumes across 
our network grew by 121% in the Period 
to 38.4 million (FY15: 17.4 million), the 
rollout at Asda being the significant 
contributing factor to this growth. 
Market Opportunity
Digital Coupons
31 billion eCoupons will be redeemed 
worldwide in 2019
1
1.05 billion mobile coupon users worldwide 
by 2019
2
Loyalty
The loyalty programme market, worth 
$100 billion worldwide
3
North American Addressable Market
The North American addressable market 
is estimated to be worth over $84 billion
4
Sources: 1&2 Juniper Research, 3. Aimia 4. Cadent Consulting Group (shopper marketing  
spend $30bn) and Raymond James (loyalty market $54bn)
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10 | 
Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016
Since the rollout of our technology at 
Asda, Eagle Eye have extended the use 
of the platform for other digital solutions, 
including digitising staff rewards. After 
the Period end, Asda Money also 
adopted our software platform to deliver 
enhanced loyalty points and cashback  
to credit card members. 
In February 2016 the Group signed a 
multi-year contract with Loblaw, our first 
overseas Tier 1 grocery customer, 
covering more than 40% of the Canadian 
grocery market on its own. This project 
is fully under way and the relationship 
has deepened since the start of the 
engagement. 
FMCG brands
As our reach into the Tier 1 grocery 
market grows, Eagle Eye’s opportunity 
with FMCG brands now becomes a key 
area of strategic focus. These brands  
are the major contributors to the more 
than $540 billion digital marketing spend 
worldwide, according to Carat. During 
the course of the Period the number  
of brands signed up to our platform 
increased significantly from 17 to 70. 
During the Period the Group also 
delivered several brand marketing 
campaigns through the network 
including those for Diageo, Heineken 
and Unilever, supported by new 
relationships with leading marketing 
agencies, Starcom, Mediacom and 
Mindshare. We are confident that this 
pillar of our strategy will be a major 
revenue generator in the coming year.
Food and Beverage
The year has seen good progress in our 
F&B client base with increased revenues 
driven by new solutions for existing 
clients such as Prezzo and M&B as well 
as new client wins with The Restaurant 
Group and La Tasca. We are extending 
our issuance partners with new 
partnerships secured with WEVE, 
SAVOO and Nectar. These partners 
bring new customers to our F&B clients 
alongside our existing relationships with 
Tesco, Vouchercloud and Groupon, 
together demonstrating the power of  
a digitally connected network.
Product development
As the market moves to digital delivery it 
is important that we continue to innovate 
and extend our software platform to 
meet the demands of our clients as well 
as developing consumer trends. During 
the year we introduced new functionality 
to fully support the promotional activity 
of our grocery customers, including 
expanding the range of coupon types 
supported; building functionality to 
manage loyalty points; adding continuity 
schemes such as stamp cards; and also 
incorporating “next best offer” schemes 
enabling real-time rewards at the point of 
sale. The platform has also been 
developed to support the creation, 
issuance and tracking of marketing 
campaigns by FMCG brands and offer 
full support for multi-language and 
multi-currency customers. In addition, 
we have made significant enhancements 
to our digital wallet capability, enabling 
clients to bring together all our services 
under a single view of the consumer.
As well as this expanding functionality, 
we have also invested in expanding  
and developing the scalability and 
infrastructure of the platform to exceed 
our customers’ growing service level 
requirements. We are now the only 
proven platform that is capable of 
supporting full basket analysis and 
promotional validation in real-time  
and at scale, through our reference  
case with Asda. 
Chief Executive’s review continued
Financial results 
Group revenue increased by 33% to £6.5 
million (FY15: £4.9 million) for the Period. 
Of total revenue, 72%, £4.6 million, was 
contributed from the core Eagle Eye AIR 
platform (FY15: 56%, £2.7 million). 
The Group’s gross profit was £5.1 million, 
representing a gross margin of 79% 
(FY15: £3.5 million, 71%). The increase 
from prior year was driven by a higher 
proportion of revenue generated from  
the Eagle Eye AIR platform that carries  
a higher margin than the messaging 
business. The adjusted EBITDA loss  
was £1.8 million (FY15: £1.5 million loss). 
To provide a better guide to the 
underlying business performance 
adjusted EBITDA excludes share-based 
payment charges along with depreciation, 
amortisation, interest and tax from the 
measure of profit. 
The Group had net assets of £5.9 million 
at 30 June 2016 (2015: £8.8 million) 
including cash and cash equivalents  
of £1.3 million (2015: £4.3 million). In 
June 2016 the Group arranged a new 
banking facility with Barclays Bank PLC 
for a three year £1.5 million revolving  
loan facility in order to strengthen  
the Company’s balance sheet as it 
continues to deepen and broaden  
its customer relationships. 
People
In addition to the strategic Board 
changes, the management team has 
been further strengthened by the 
recruitment of a new sales director, 
Helen Slaven, in May 2016. As a senior 
sales director in both the retail and 
technology sectors, Helen brings 
extensive experience and an 
international network of contacts 
necessary for us to deliver against our 
revenue targets.  Eagle Eye Solutions Group plc   Annual Report 2016 | 11
http://www.eagleeye.com
The past 12 months have seen rapid 
growth in our team. The average head 
count increased from 50 to 73 and  
we moved into a permanent office  
in Guildford with the right facilities to 
support the enhanced status of the 
business, and introduced HR systems to 
develop, measure, reward and motivate 
our growing headcount. More recently 
we have opened an operation in Toronto 
to support our services in Canada and 
with Phill Blundell leading the operation  
I expect there to be rapid growth over 
the next 12 months. The skill, dedication 
and talent of our people are fundamental 
to our growing business. We have made 
good progress over the last 12 months 
and will continue to make improvements 
to ensure we attract the best talent. 
Looking ahead 
The past year has seen good progress 
against our objective to make our 
mission possible and I believe that all the 
key components are now in place. We 
are well placed in terms of our 
management team, our client base and 
platform capability to take advantage of 
the significant and growing market 
opportunity. I have confidence that the 
coming year will see significant progress 
and value creation for our shareholders.
Tim Mason
Chief Executive Officer
20 September 2016
Our Values
Teamwork
We work together: sharing, supporting, 
learning.
Innovation
 We will lead the way: transforming, problem 
solving, looking ahead.
Integrity
 We are honest: respectful, transparent, 
trustworthy.
Fun
 We enjoy our work: celebrating, talking, 
encouraging.
Passion
 We believe in what we do: our ambition, our 
products, our ability to make a difference.
Excellence
 We want to be the best: skilled, adaptable, 
professional. 
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
