 03 easyHotel plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Strategy
2015/16 was a transformational year for 
easyHotel with excellent progress achieved.
High levels of staff engagement across both 
our owned and franchised hotels, together with 
improving customer satisfaction, have driven 
impressive like for like sales growth. This, together 
with our focus on reducing costs, improving 
efficiencies and maximising the returns from 
our investments, has produced a significant 
increase in our profits.
Our pipeline of new hotels is accelerating. 
The equity fundraise in October 2016 will 
enable us to develop and open more owned 
hotels and such investment in the brand and 
estate should encourage more franchisees 
to join the brand. With the experienced team 
we now have in place, we are in an excellent 
position to expand the easyHotel brand and 
deliver improving returns for our shareholders.
Trading review
In 2015/16 total system sales grew by 6.8% 
to £21.3m, and our Company revenues by 
8.7% to £6.0m. This was achieved by an increase 
in like for like owned hotel sales of 13% and the 
maturing of Croydon and Frankfurt.
Occupancy for owned and franchised hotels 
was 76.2% (2015: 75.0%).
Our strong sales performance led to a 6.5% 
increase in adjusted EBITDA to £1.55m. 
Following the sale of the restaurant asset 
at our Liverpool development site, our profit 
before tax increased by 38.4% to £1.1m.
Owned hotels
Despite a softening UK hotel market, 
particularly in London, revenue grew on a like 
for like basis by 13% as a result of the 
new revenue management and dynamic 
pricing strategy implemented during the year. 
This, together with a decision to start selling 
a limited allocation of rooms via selected 
online travel agencies (OTAs), resulted in all 
three owned hotels significantly outperforming 
their competitive set (as measured by STR) from 
November 2015 onwards.
As previously announced, the retrospective 
planning permission submission for 78 of the 
162 rooms at the Old Street hotel was refused 
by Islington Council. A formal appeal will be 
lodged in December 2016 and a decision 
is expected during 2017 . The remaining 
84 rooms at Old Street, which already have 
planning permission in place, are unaffected.
Franchise partners
Like for like revenue at our franchised 
hotels increased by 1% during the financial 
year, reflecting the unique market conditions 
in which the hotels operate. The hotels in 
Continental Europe performed particularly 
strongly whereas the UK hotels traded in line 
with the UK market.
There were 1 7 franchise hotels operating at the 
end of the financial year, following the termination 
of the franchise agreement in Prague.
Market outlook
The UK hotel market performed strongly in the 
post-Brexit period, as a result of weaker Sterling 
(vs. the US Dollar and Euro) resulting in an 
increase in staycations and in-bound tourism.
The Board remains confident that despite any 
uncertainties surrounding the imminent Brexit 
negotiations, the easyHotel brand will continue 
to outperform the hotel sector as consumers 
seek out the best value for money.
easyHotel Brussels
easyHotel Amsterdam Arena
2016 Q1
easyHotel Birmingham
easyHotel Manchester
easyHotel Amsterdam 
Zaandam
easyHotel Ipswich
easyHotel Lisbon
easyHotel Liverpool easyHotel Barcelona
easyHotel Bur Dubai
easyHotel Bernkastel-Kues
easyHotel Istanbul
easyHotel Reading
Q2 Q3 2017/18
Development pipeline
Summary
• Strategy implementation is on track
• Positive trading continues
• Significantly accelerated pipeline 
in place to deliver long-term 
shareholder value 
Q4 2016/17
Guy Parsons
Chief Executive Officer Strategic report
04 easyHotel plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Development review
Development of owned hotels
We have a growing pipeline of hotels 
under development. 
We completed the acquisition of the 
Manchester hotel in January 2016 (which 
had originally been purchased subject to 
planning permission) and both the hotels 
in Manchester and Liverpool are under 
construction and will open in early 2017 .
In July 2016, we sold the A3 restaurant space 
at 47 Castle Street in Liverpool under a 125-year 
lease agreement as part of our strategy to recycle 
capital through the disposal of surplus assets. 
The money raised will be used to help fund the 
further development of our owned hotel estate. 
During the year, we completed the acquisition 
of three new hotel sites. The first is on John Bright 
Street, Birmingham, acquired under a 125-year 
lease. The 84-room hotel will open in early 201 7 . 
The second, acquired on a freehold basis, is on 
Northgate Street, Ipswich. The 94-room hotel 
will open in mid 2017 . Finally, we completed 
the acquisition of a site on Gran Via, the main 
avenue of L’Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, 
in November 2016. A new build 204-room 
hotel will open in early 2018.
We now have 576 owned hotel rooms under 
various stages of development and are confident 
that the £36.7m (net of expenses) raised by the 
equity placing in October 2016, together with 
our increased bank facility of £12.0m, will enable 
us to continue opening owned hotels in excellent 
locations that will make a significant contribution 
to our profitability.
We look forward to updating investors on our 
acquisition pipeline in due course.
Development of franchised hotels
There are 951 franchised rooms currently 
under development. In addition to the hotel 
in Brussels, which opened in October 2016, 
and the development agreement we signed 
with MAN Investments LLC (which will open 
its first 300-room hotel in Bur Dubai in 2017), 
we announced the development of hotels at 
Amsterdam Arena (opened in November 2016), 
Amsterdam Zaandam, Istanbul, Lisbon, 
Bernkastel-Kues and Reading. 
These hotel openings will enhance our position 
as the super budget hotel brand of scale, in the 
UK, Europe and the Middle East.
Central operations
During the year, we have made some 
significant senior management changes 
to ensure that we have the talent in place 
to deliver our growth plans. 
The new team has already added significant 
value to our business. We have, for example, 
renegotiated our contract-cleaning agreement 
giving us a reduced (and fixed) cost, irrespective 
of increases to the living wage. We have 
renegotiated, and reduced, our architect, 
project management and construction costs, 
which will enhance future returns for the 
business. This work is ongoing and we are 
confident that further efficiencies will be found.
With such an exciting future, it is perhaps not 
surprising that staff engagement levels are at 
industry-leading levels. At the year end the 
Group employed 45 staff (2015: 30). 
Brand
easyHotel’s core strength is our ability to leverage 
the recognised and trusted “easy” brand.
We know that improving customer 
recommendation is a priority for our future 
success and finding out what our customers 
think is central to our business. Our operations 
teams focus on customer feedback via social 
media sites in general, and TripAdvisor in 
particular, and our hotels are ranked against 
a competitive set on a monthly basis. This relentless 
focus on customer feedback is already paying off 
and will remain an integral part of the way we 
do things in the future.
Revenue management and distribution
A historic feature of our distribution strategy 
was to sell rooms directly through easyHotel.com 
only. Although we are now selling a controlled 
number of rooms via OTAs, we remain focused on 
driving sales via our own website. Our marketing 
campaigns during the last twelve months have 
been further refined to maximise the traffic to our 
website and improve the return on our marketing 
investment. With a new hotel management system 
being introduced in 2016/17 , we will be in an 
excellent position to make further improvements 
to our customers’ web journey, as well as introduce 
a more dynamic pricing strategy to further drive 
RevPAR growth.
By offering our customers a good night’s sleep 
at a super price and a quick and easy way to make 
a booking, we believe that we will attract new 
customers and encourage significant repeat visits.
Outlook
We are on track to deliver the development 
plans we announced in September 2016.
2015/16 was a transformational year for 
easyHotel, with excellent operational progress 
made across the business and a significant 
acceleration of both our owned and franchised 
hotel development pipelines.
The Board remains confident that by exploiting 
the strength of the brand, easyHotel will continue 
to outperform the budget hotel sector as 
consumers seek out the best value for money.
With the experienced team we now have 
in place and the proceeds of our recent 
fundraising, we are in an excellent position 
to expand the easyHotel brand and deliver 
improving returns for our shareholders.
Guy Parsons
Chief Executive Officer
28 November 2016
UK market opportunity
The budget sector in the UK is forecast to continue growing for the foreseeable future.
Total hotel market estimated* at:
2015
(000)
2020
(000)
2030
(000)
Share
2015
%
2020
%
2030
%
Branded budget 145 180 215 19 23 25
All other 602 600 635 81 77 75
UK market 747 780 850 100 100 100
* Melvin Gold Consulting.
Chief Executive Officer’s review 
continued
