 STRATEGIC REPORT
8 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
2016 in review
2016 represented another good year of 
revenue and profit growth for Ebiquity. 
Underlying operating profit growth over 
the year was on track with the growth 
plan we outlined in Autumn 2016.
Revenues grew 9.1% to £83.6 million 
over pro‑forma revenue for the 12 months 
ended 31 December (CY2015). Underlying 
operating profit increased to £13.0 million. 
This represents an increase of 4.4% 
over CY2015, reflecting a slight drop in 
underlying operating margin to 15.5%, at 
the higher end of our direct peer group. 
Underlying profit before tax increased 
by 5.3% to £11.8 million. Reported 
operating profit grew to £7.7 million, up 
from £3.6 million in CY2015, and reported 
profit before tax increased to £6.5 million, 
up from £2.5 million in CY2015.
With approximately 68% of revenue 
denominated in currencies other than 
sterling, revenue was significantly boosted 
by the depreciation of sterling during the 
year. In total, foreign exchange benefited 
revenue by 5.8%, with acquisitions further 
increasing revenue by 1.2%. This resulted 
in like‑for‑like constant currency revenue 
growth of 2.1%.
Our Media Value Measurement (‘MVM’) 
practice reported revenue increase 
of 12.3%, an increase of 3.6% on a 
like‑for‑like constant currency basis. ‘MVM’ 
now accounts for 56% of Group revenue. 
Revenue grew fastest from our international 
media practice and business units in 
Continental Europe, and we continued to 
see strong demand for both our digital and 
pitch management services.
Overall ‘MVM’ revenue growth was 
held back by a decline in revenue from 
our contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions, due to clients reflecting 
on the findings of the U.S. Association 
of National Advertisers’ (‘ANA’) media 
transparency report. We continue to view 
the ongoing industry debate about media 
transparency as a long‑term growth 
driver for the ‘MVM’ practice. Underlying 
operating margins dropped from those 
achieved in CY2015 principally as a result 
of the decline in revenue from our contract 
compliance business feeding through 
to profitability.
Revenue from our Marketing Performance 
Optimization (‘MPO’) practice continued 
to grow strongly, with reported revenue 
growth of 31.2% and like‑for‑like constant 
currency revenue growth of 21.6%. 
Revenue grew from both our US‑based 
Multi‑Channel Analytics practice (13.9%) 
and our European based Marketing 
Effectiveness practice (30.7%). Our 
underlying operating margin rose slightly 
year on year.
Together, our faster growing practices 
– MVM and MPO – now represent 72% 
of Group revenues.
Revenue from our Market Intelligence (‘MI’) 
practice declined by 5.2% on a reported 
basis, and by 8.5% on a like‑for‑like 
constant currency basis. As indicated in 
our half‑year report, revenue from our 
project‑based research business declined 
sharply following the loss of a specific 
contract at the beginning of the year. The 
decline in revenue was largely anticipated, 
and the cost base of the business was 
managed appropriately.
The market intelligence sector is highly 
competitive, mature, and experiencing low 
growth rates across the world. Revenue 
from Portfolio, our Advertising Intelligence 
(‘AI’) subscription service, grew by 1.7% 
on a reported basis. Eliminating the impact 
of currency, revenue from AI declined 
Ebiquity’s long term ambition is 
to become the world’s leading, 
independent, technology‑enabled 
consultancies specializing in 
marketing and media analytics.
• Strong growth in revenue and profit
• New practice: Strategic Media 
Consultancy
• Corporate purpose launched: 
“creating clarity”
• Chief Client Officer appointed
• Matrix organizational 
structure introduced
• Digital investment: Portfolio, OPTIX, 
Attribution, Connect
Highlights
Michael Karg, PhD
Group Chief Executive Officer Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  9
  Bob Liodice, 
President & CEO at the ANA: 
“ Ebiquity is an outstanding friend and 
partner. Even more, they are superb 
analysts and strategists. In the ANA’s 
media transparency work, Ebiquity 
provided the intellectual capital to 
translate major industry findings 
into workable business process 
prescriptions. These were critical action 
steps that successfully completed 
many years of productive efforts.”
  Laetitia Zinetti, 
Global Practice Principal  
of Strategic Media Consulting: 
“ Our deep global media expertise 
means we are best placed to help 
marketers capitalize on the evolving 
market. We always start with “Why?”, 
encouraging clients to be clear 
about the drivers of their marketing 
strategies. We then collaborate with 
our clients to enable them to make 
better strategic decisions and build 
future‑proofed media capabilities.”
1.7% owing to the loss of three contracts 
in our US business unit at the beginning 
of the year. 
Renewal rates were 88% on a value basis, 
and we have already seen a positive 
reaction from clients to the upgrade to our 
new Portfolio media platform rolled out 
from September 2016 onwards. Due to 
good cost control and a decline in revenue 
contribution from our project‑based 
research business, underlying operating 
margins rose year on year.
Sector and thought leadership
In addition to our strong financial 
performance overall, 2016 was a significant 
year for Ebiquity due to our ongoing 
leadership role in the global debate 
about media transparency, the launch 
of our Strategic Media Consultancy 
services, and our programme of product 
development and roll‑out. Here are 
some highlights.
1. In June, the ANA published its 
long‑awaited study into media 
transparency. Written by independent 
investigative services firm K2 Intelligence, 
the study reported for the first time 
evidence that rebates and other 
non‑transparent practices may be 
pervasive in the US media market.
This study was followed by the July 
publication of a report which we 
co‑authored with the ANA and our 
specialist contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions. The report was titled 
Media Transparency: Prescriptions, 
Principles, and Processes for Advertisers. 
Following the findings of the K2 study, 
this report provided advertisers with a 
practical roadmap to manage and mitigate 
media agencies’ non‑transparent and 
non‑disclosed practices. In this way, we 
are providing guidance to help advertisers 
optimize their media management.
The ANA report has put media 
transparency firmly on the management 
agenda of the world’s leading advertisers. 
For example, speaking at the Internet 
Advertising Bureau’s (‘IAB’) annual 
leadership conference in January 2017, 
Marc Pritchard, Chief Brand Officer at 
the world’s biggest advertiser Procter & 
Gamble, called time on the digital media 
supply chain, dubbing it “murky at best, 
and fraudulent at worst”. Transparency 
now matters to advertisers, agency 
groups, and media owners. This includes 
online platforms such as Facebook, which 
recently agreed to undergo audits of its 
metrics by the Media Ratings Council, 
following concerns over transparency
1
.
Our evolving range of products and 
services are designed to create 
clarity about marketing investments, 
particularly in digital. Consequently we 
are well positioned to grow our business 
through practical, impartial media 
consultancy advice.
2. For today’s progressive advertiser, the 
media landscape offers unprecedented 
opportunities to connect with customers – 
often directly. But its complexity threatens 
to overwhelm even the best‑informed 
marketer. That’s why in 2016 we launched 
a new, specialized, Strategic Media 
Consultancy offering. Our suite of bespoke 
services enables advertisers to address 
their most pressing needs: from owning 
and managing data and ad technology, 
to choosing and managing the right agency 
and technology partners; from creating 
the right internal team structure to manage 
marketing communications, to helping 
advertisers develop the optimal media 
strategies and plans.
In addition to our strong financial 
performance overall, 2016 was a 
significant year for Ebiquity because of 
our ongoing leadership role in the global 
debate about media transparency.
1. http://on.wsj.com/2kzSSf8 STRATEGIC REPORT
10 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
3. Long recognized as one of the leading 
providers of market intelligence to the 
global advertising community, in 2016 
we completely overhauled our advertising 
intelligence service.
Our Portfolio advertising platform offers 
the world’s richest and most searchable 
repository of both offline and online 
advertising combining creative and spend 
data. This allows advertisers to research 
and analyze exactly what campaigns their 
competitors are running, in which media, at 
what frequency, and at what cost. Portfolio 
now covers advertising across 15 European 
countries and approaching 90 territories 
worldwide, and a database of 25 million 
individual ads.
The evolving nature of online advertising 
has also required us to create new ways 
to identify, capture, and tag the increasing 
variety of formats of digital ads. To do this, 
we had to develop pioneering search and 
spidering technology that experiences 
the internet like people do. We are fast 
approaching the roll‑out of a new digital 
service, and this will be integrated into the 
new platform.
Building for the future
I became Group Chief Executive Officer 
in January 2016, and inherited a company 
with great foundations on which to build. 
A company with a global presence, a 
client base including 80 of the world’s top 
100 advertisers, and a strong brand with 
global leadership in MVM. With advertisers 
under increasing pressure to validate and 
justify marketing expenditure, I also found 
a powerful and thriving MPO practice: 
strong talent, unique and proprietary 
methodologies, and growing revenue. 
Since I took the helm of Ebiquity, we’ve put 
in place several important building blocks 
we need to ensure that the business is 
fit for the next stage of our development 
and growth. These are significant steps 
on the road to transforming Ebiquity 
from what was effectively a collective of 
independently‑run, local entities into a 
global, professional services business. 
What’s more, this is more straightforward 
to achieve currently, with most of our 
acquisitions now beyond earn‑out 
and becoming fully integrated into the 
Ebiquity business. Founder entrepreneurs 
of these companies are therefore less 
concerned about individual profitability 
and more focused on our collective journey 
of change.
1. To achieve this transformation, we have 
developed and articulated a distinctive 
statement of corporate purpose, grounded 
in our clients’ needs: “we are creating 
clarity for our clients”. This statement 
of purpose is designed to change the 
way we think and talk about why we do 
what we do, and how we do it. “Creating 
clarity” is not a one‑off statement. Rather, 
it represents the start of a continuous 
process that takes courage and conviction, 
guided by our teams’ expertise. It requires 
us always to deliver analysis and 
recommendations that are straightforward, 
transparent, and precise.
2. To achieve this transformation, we are 
now taking a dedicated, client‑first 
approach. We have identified and 
appointed a global Chief Client Officer 
– Andrew Challier – who is responsible 
for several of our most important client 
relationships. We are embedding our 
client‑first approach across the business 
through clear client partner job profiles, 
training, and development by region, 
by market, and by expertise.
We want to work closer still with those 
clients who partner with us because they 
see the greatest value in our services. 
By providing them with the right level of 
service, we can help them to become even 
more effective and efficient advertisers. 
We know that deepening and expanding 
the relationships with our key clients will 
be a critical lever of growth.
3. To achieve this transformation, we’ve 
introduced a matrix organizational 
structure, creating global practice 
responsibilities. This is designed to drive 
better and clearer accountability to those 
responsible for markets and those running 
products and services across geographies. 
We have done this to ensure that we 
deliver our products and services at 
consistently‑high standards. And we have 
done this to ensure that these products 
and services reflect and accommodate 
local‑market differences.
Our ability to put ourselves in our 
clients’ shoes is every bit as important 
as technical skills like digital attribution 
and media value measurement.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
  Andrew Challier,  
Chief Client Officer: 
“ Understanding our clients’ business 
and marketing objectives is just good 
business practice. But the combination 
of our independence, our ability to put 
ourselves in the clients’ shoes, and our 
mastery of the technical tools of the 
trade is business dynamite.” Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  11
50%
In 2016, over 50% of our incremental 
MPO revenues in the UK were generated 
from an existing MVM relationship.
€800k
First, multi discipline, multi‑market 
pitch led to €800k revenues via a 
single contract.
$1m
In the US joint selling resulted in over  
$1m incremental revenues this year.
4. And to achieve this transformation, 
we’ve started to develop more 
sophisticated approaches to talent 
management. During 2016, we developed 
new global processes for reviewing our 
talent base to drive development and 
retention programmes, and to support 
succession planning. These are rolling 
out into the business in 2017. We are 
committed to also continue to improve our 
ability to recruit the specialist talent that 
our clients’ needs demand, and to further 
enhance employee engagement.
Our investments in digital
Currently, less than 20% of our revenue 
comes from digital. As the marketing 
ecosystem becomes increasingly 
dominated by digital technology and 
Big Data – and as our clients allocate 
an ever‑increasing proportion of their 
marketing budgets in digital – we are 
investing in technology‑based solutions 
to deliver against their requirements.
1. For example, with Portfolio we are 
modernizing and enhancing our advertising 
intelligence platform. It is our ambition 
that it should become one of the most 
comprehensive, best‑tagged, and most 
searchable real‑time archives of advertising 
creative executions and spend data. 
It has been designed to cover more than 
40 major markets around the world with 
an authoritative and intelligent, living 
database of digital display and traditional 
media advertising content on any system 
in the world.
Our new Portfolio Digital platform 
is intended to explore websites and 
experiences ads like people do, recognizes 
the different adtech used to serve digital 
ads, and harnesses and presents a broad 
array of ad data, metadata, and metrics 
in a simple, clear, and unified way. 
We have launched this in pilot in selected 
markets and it is our ambition to roll it out 
progressively across the world during 2017 
and beyond.
2. For example, with OPTIX we are 
developing a comprehensive data 
measurement platform (‘DMP’) for 
benchmarking digital advertising 
performance. Online advertising is 
complex, fragmented, and sprawling. 
It offers millions of opportunities to reach 
billions of consumers directly, across 
multiple technologies and platforms. 
It is also characterized by many more 
links in the transactional chain between 
the advertiser and the publisher than 
traditional advertising.
OPTIX is a DMP designed to help 
advertisers cut through the complexity of 
online advertising. A combined software 
and consultancy service, it brings together 
all relevant data that describe both media 
cost and media quality under a single, 
global methodology. This will empower 
advertisers to use the same benchmarking 
methodology and metrics across 
multiple markets, platforms, and brands. 
This single standard has been designed 
to be genuinely scalable across the world.
3. For example, our MPO practice is 
developing a Digital Attribution service that 
uses modelling to enable our consultants 
to understand how different digital media 
channels and activations each play a part 
and interact during our clients’ customers’ 
path to purchase. In conjunction with our 
econometrics team, this service identifies 
the relative and absolute contribution 
of both digital and traditional media to 
business and marketing KPIs. Attribution 
is a major concern for marketers using 
digital media to stimulate a response, and 
our attribution modelling service addresses 
this concern.
4. And for example, with Connect we’ve 
developed a fully‑automated DMP for 
media agencies to upload raw media data 
from all different media categories to our 
pool, in a clear and consistent fashion. 
This makes life quicker and easier for our 
advertiser clients’ media agency partners 
to provide the data we need to calculate 
media efficiency and effectiveness. 
It removes the potential for human error, 
inconsistencies, and inaccuracy. And it 
means that clients can be certain that 
we have unfiltered access to their data. 
It truly is a triple‑win for all partners in 
this ecosystem – advertiser, consultant, 
and agency.
We are starting to benefit from a closer collaboration  
between our MVM and MPO practices: STRATEGIC REPORT
12 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
Our evolving range of products and services 
are designed to create clarity about marketing 
investments, particularly in digital.
Our service offering
Today, we go to market in three, core practice areas.
We provide clients with a clear picture of 
their own and their competitors’ in‑market 
creative executions, ad spend, and media 
strategies. Our Portfolio media platform 
was thoroughly reconfigured and launched 
in September 2016, and now incorporates 
optimized charting and presentation 
facilities, automated reporting functionality, 
and an enhanced user interface.
In MI, our global team captures, 
categorizes, analyzes, and delivers 
advertising and communications 
intelligence in more than 40 languages from 
over 80 major markets. The team’s insights 
are designed to enable advertisers to plan 
more effectively, respond smarter, and so 
enhance their marketing performance. 
In 2017, we plan to start rolling out a 
new Portfolio Digital service, providing 
coverage of creative and spend data for 
the world’s digital advertising content. 
Portfolio is supported by specialist insight, 
market, and earned media research 
experts who enhance automated analytics 
with experienced, native‑language 
human analysis.
Market Intelligence
(‘MI’)
We guide clients to decide where to 
allocate and how to optimize their 
marketing investments, which marketing 
technologies to select, and how to 
leverage data to improve digital customer 
journeys. Our work in this rapidly‑growing 
practice has two distinct service offerings: 
econometrics and multi‑channel analytics.
In MPO, our award‑winning team of 
marketing econometricians build cause and 
effect models to help brands understand 
and exploit consumer paths to purchase. 
Our data scientists are skilled at integrating 
and analyzing data sets from any source 
to deliver evidence‑based insights that 
optimize marketing performance. 
We have particular expertise in working 
with data generated by digital customer 
touchpoints, including owned media 
properties, online stores, social media 
platforms, and digital kiosks. In these 
ways, we take the guesswork out of 
marketing investment.
Marketing Performance Optimization
(‘MPO’)
We empower clients to increase the 
efficiency and transparency of their 
media performance through media 
auditing, benchmarking, and performance 
measurement. We help them to select and 
manage their media trading partners.
We enable them to make the right, 
long‑term decisions through our new, 
Strategic Media Consultancy service. 
We also report on agencies’ compliance 
with contractual terms via our specialist 
contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions.
In MVM, we have one of the world’s 
richest and most comprehensive pool of 
benchmarking media spend data across 
all media channels. This is interrogated 
by our world‑leading team of 300 media 
experts in 14 countries who have been 
optimizing media efficiency for global 
brands for decades.
Media Value Measurement
(‘MVM’) Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  13
For today’s progressive advertiser, the media 
landscape offers unprecedented opportunities 
to connect with customers – often directly.
Morag Blazey,  
Global Practice Principal  
of Market Intelligence: 
“ Advertisers and their agencies need 
a complete picture of what their 
competitors are saying, who they 
are talking to, how often, and in 
which media. 
 
 
This information allows marketers 
and their insight teams make 
better‑informed decisions when setting 
communications budgets, strategies, 
and messaging decisions.”
Mike Campbell, 
Head of Ebiquity’s International 
Effectiveness Practice: 
“ Given the sheer volume of media and 
marketing data, it has never been more 
challenging to work out what each 
marketing investment contributes to 
overall brand performance. At the same 
time, it has never been more possible 
to improve the impact investments have 
on KPIs.”
Maigiri Jinkiri, 
Head of Ebiquity’s North American 
Multi‑Channel Analytics Practice: 
“ Maximizing each customer interaction 
demands a rounded understanding 
of emerging technology, big data 
analytics, and customer behavior. 
Our consultants maintain a unique 
blend of technological, analytical, 
and business management skills to 
ensure that clients capitalize on the 
marketplace opportunity.”
Dietmar Kruse, 
Global Practice Principal  
of Media Measurement:
“ To invest with confidence in the most 
effective and efficient media channels, 
advertisers need proper access to the 
right data. To optimize budgets, they 
need to know how effective their spend 
is compared with their competitors’ 
and peers’ investments, and what they 
need to do to improve. Advertisers need 
to know whether their agencies are 
delivering, how they’re performing, and 
so how best they should reward them.”
Stephen Broderick, CEO of Ebiquity’s 
contract compliance business, 
FirmDecisions: 
“ Because of the pace of change in 
all media – but especially digital – 
advertisers should review the contracts 
they have with their media agency of 
record at least annually. This will help 
them be sure they have access to 
the data they need to have the level 
of transparency over their marketing 
spend that’s right for them. Put simply, 
it’s good governance.” STRATEGIC REPORT
14 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW continued
The purpose of our business is 
creating clarity for our clients on the 
return on investment that their media 
investments yield for them in all channels. 
By understanding simply and clearly 
the effectiveness and efficiency of their 
media choices, we help them to optimize 
performance. This performance is mediated 
through an increasingly diverse range of 
partner businesses. The most significant 
of these partners is usually the advertiser’s 
media agency of record, although it now 
also includes an array of specialist digital, 
technology, and data businesses across 
the adtech and martech ecosystem.
Because we evaluate the performance of 
the output of our clients’ agencies, it is our 
long‑term ambition and aspiration to work 
in partnership with them too. It is our role to 
test – independently – and demonstrate the 
real value that they are delivering for our 
clients, as well as to recommend strategies 
for improving media performance still 
further. This is why we would like – over the 
coming years – to become the partner of 
choice for our clients’ partner agencies too. 
This is true across all our services, 
from pitch management to marketing 
performance optimization; from media 
value measurement to market intelligence; 
from strategic media consultancy to 
contract compliance reviews. We recognize 
that some of our services – including 
agency pitch management and contract 
compliance reviews – are a cost of doing 
business for agencies. Nevertheless, they 
are important aspects of good governance, 
and we try to deliver these services in a 
straightforward and professional manner 
for all parties.
Our desire to become the partner of choice 
for the media industry is also why – for 
instance – we are developing our new 
Connect data management platform to 
allow seamless and automated uploads of 
media data from media agencies. This will 
reduce the load on agencies, improving 
the accuracy of data, and save time for 
agencies and advertisers.
If an advertiser decides to change its 
agency of record, for instance, and we’re 
appointed to manage the pitch process, 
it’s important that we should have good 
relationships with and deep knowledge 
of the capabilities of all potential media 
agency partners. We also need good 
relationships with the leadership of 
agencies, data partners, and adtech 
providers such as ad servers and DSPs. 
We are building these relationships in both 
local markets and at a global level.
Part of our commitment to being the 
partner of choice to the global advertiser 
community extends to our close working 
relationship with leading industry trade 
bodies. This includes the World Federation 
of Advertisers (‘WFA’), the Incorporated 
Society of British Advertisers (‘ISBA’), the 
U.S. Association of National Advertisers 
(‘ANA’), and representative bodies in other 
key global markets including Australia, 
France, Germany, and Spain.
Our Growth Acceleration Plan
Across our one global Ebiquity, we are now 
actively embedding our matrix structure, 
our people strategy, and our narrative 
purpose as fundamentals required to grow 
the business. In the next stage of our 
development, we are actively transforming 
Ebiquity into a technology‑enabled 
consultancy.
Our clients demand and rightly 
expect quick turnaround of analysis 
of large volumes of data. Over the 
coming years, we can only meet these 
expectations and scale our business 
by making our products and services 
technology‑enabled throughout.
We have identified that, compared with 
similar services firms, we have been 
running “too lean” – delivering 15‑16% 
underlying operating profit margin 
against 10‑11% for comparable firms. 
By investing in technology to make our 
business technology‑enabled, we should 
nevertheless be able to deliver above 
average margin of 12‑13%.
Enhanced technology is critical to our 
future success, right across our three, 
core practice areas.
An aspiration for the future
Ebiquity as the partner of choice for the 
media, data, and adtech communities.
  Stephan Loerke, CEO at the World 
Federation of Advertisers 
“ The WFA has worked with Ebiquity 
for a number of years now, and we 
highly value our partnership with them. 
Their expertise has been very valuable 
in helping us to guide our advertiser 
members towards best‑practice in 
marketing and media effectiveness, and 
to provide real clarity into the complexity 
of today’s marketing landscape.” Strategic report
Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016  15
In Marketing Performance Optimization, 
we face a rapidly‑growing need to analyze 
enterprise scale sets of consumer and 
media, behavioural and transactional 
data. Our ability to deliver here will be 
underpinned by technology.
In Media Value Management, we need 
to ingest and integrate large sets of media 
data from multiple different sources – from 
ad servers to demand side platforms – to 
help our clients optimize campaigns in near 
real time. Our ability to deliver here will be 
underpinned by technology.
And in Market Intelligence, we bring 
together the world’s display advertising – 
from print, broadcast, and online services; 
creative executions, media placement, and 
spend data – into fully searchable, properly 
tagged databases. Our ability to deliver 
here will be underpinned by technology.
Our approach
Our corporate purpose of “creating clarity” 
shapes everything we do. This includes 
the clear and straightforward strategy 
we have adopted to deliver our Growth 
Acceleration Plan. We call this the 5Ps, and 
it covers: People, Product, Process, Profile, 
and Performance.
We believe that by having the right people 
and products in place, developed and 
delivered using the right processes, we will 
deliver the strong performance that our 
current and future stakeholders demand. 
By raising the profile of our cutting‑edge 
approaches to creating clarity of marketing 
performance for our advertiser clients, 
we will further enhance our performance. 
Indeed, performance – in terms of revenue, 
profit and underlying operating profit – 
will be a consequence of our focus on 
the first 4Ps.
Our corporate purpose of  
“creating clarity” shapes  
everything we do.
This straightforward framework has allowed 
us to simplify management reporting on 
People, Product, Process, and Profile, 
and we are driving these through the 
business. This applies to both near‑term 
financial management at an operational 
level, as well as the longer‑term strategic 
management of the business.
Just as we are straightforward in all our 
client engagements designed to create 
clarity about effectiveness and efficiency 
of marketing investments, so we are clear 
about what we want to achieve over the 
next five years.
Our five-year objectives
Our 5Ps strategy provides the framework 
for our five‑year objectives:
1:  PEOPLE 
Attract, retain and develop high calibre 
talent from the media, data science and 
consultancy sectors.
2:  PRODUCT 
Launch proprietary products and 
services that harness our data and 
insights and enable us to be trusted 
advisers for our clients.
3:  PROCESS 
Shape the organization and its 
processes to support broader and 
deeper client relationships.
4:  PROFILE 
Raise our brand profile and broaden the 
perception of our expertise to support 
our growth plans.
5:  PERFORMANCE 
Delivery of our Growth Acceleration  
Plan resulting in sustainable double‑digit 
revenue growth at sustainable 
operating margins.
   READ MORE ABOUT  
THE FIVE Ps ON PAGES 18 AND 19.
As we start to meet these objectives, 
we will increasingly be known as 
one of the leading, independent, 
technology‑enabled marketing and 
media analytics consultancies, right 
around the world. Board‑level executives 
will trust us more deeply. Our services 
and methodologies will help to set the 
standards for the industry. And advertisers, 
industry bodies, analysts, and the media 
will increasingly seek out our thought 
leadership.
Michael Karg, PhD
Chief Executive Officer 
27 March 2017
