 STRATEGIC REPORT
6 Ebiquity plc | Annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financially, reported revenue grew 9.1% 
to £83.6 million, underlying operating 
profit increased 4.4% to £13.0 million and 
underlying fully diluted earnings per share 
were up 5% to 11.3p. I am also pleased 
to report we have continued to increase 
the dividend in line with our progressive 
dividend policy, with a proposed payment 
of 0.65p per share.
Change has been a constant during the 
year, both in the marketing industry and 
at Ebiquity. Technology has helped make 
the broad marketing ecosystem ever‑more 
complex, inevitably more confusing, and 
often less transparent than one might expect. 
This is particularly true when we reflect that 
digital data should – if anything – enable 
much more detailed and meaningful analysis.
It is a striking fact that today only about 
40% of digital programmatic advertising 
investment reaches the publisher, with 
value being eroded by the multiple links 
between advertisers and publishers, fraud, 
lack of viewability and non‑human traffic. 
I don’t envy any business leader who has 
to tell his Board and shareholders that 
they’re investing in anything that suffers up 
to 60% wastage. The trouble is, that’s what 
many CMOs should be saying. 
Digital complexity and the increasing calls 
for transparency mean that our clients 
– the world’s biggest advertisers – need 
more help than ever from an independent 
firm with the necessary knowledge and 
expertise to navigate their way through this.
Within Ebiquity itself there was significant 
change in 2016. Michael Karg, PhD took 
the helm as Group CEO early in the year 
and undertook a complete review of the 
business. There were great foundations in 
place, with businesses around the world, 
tremendous talent and expertise, and a 
client list that includes more than three 
quarters of the world’s biggest advertisers. 
Michael has now set about moving these 
individual businesses into a single, aligned 
organization that can address the global 
requirements of our international clients as 
well as the local needs of domestic ones.
Meeting these challenges will be achieved 
both by continuing to bring in and 
develop talent, but also by increasing the 
underpinning processes and technology 
that enables us to handle the demands 
of analyzing and drawing actionable 
intelligence from the avalanche of data 
that digital marketing creates.
We are, I believe, a leader in the ongoing 
debate about media transparency, and that 
position has only been enhanced throughout 
2016. Our independence is paramount, 
and we must remain at the heart of the 
marketing ecosystem, enabling marketers 
to seize the opportunities offered by digital.
2016 was just the beginning of the process 
of evolution in the industry, but as it 
gathers momentum the opportunities for 
Ebiquity can only grow. There will also be 
more change to come, as – for example 
– in 2018 new regulations over the use of 
personal data come into force in Europe. 
These will add another level of complexity 
and will reinforce the need for the 
professional independent expert – Ebiquity.
As always, we couldn’t achieve any of this 
without the people around the world who 
bring their individual expertise and efforts 
to the business and create the capability 
that the whole Group can deploy for the 
benefit of its clients. 
Thank you to you all.
Michael Higgins
Non‑Executive Chairman
27 March 2017
We are a leader in the debate about 
media transparency. Our independence 
is paramount, and we must remain at the 
heart of the marketing ecosystem.
• Revenue up 9.1% to £83.6m
• Profit up 4.4% to £13.0m
• Diluted EPS up 5% to 11.3p
• Michael Karg, PhD new Group CEO
• Leading global transparency debate
Highlights
Michael Higgins
Non‑Executive Chairman
