 Strategic report
02 easyHotel plc Annual report and accounts 2016
Summary
• Trading in line with expectations and 
particularly strong across owned hotels
• Additional capital secured through 
share issue and bank finance
• Good progress made on 
implementing growth strategy
• Appropriately skilled team established
I am pleased to report that easyHotel 
continued to trade in line with the Board’s 
expectations during the year under review. 
Our owned hotels traded particularly 
strongly, with like for like revenues up by 
13% when compared with the prior year.
Strategy
The Group’s growth strategy focuses on the 
continued development and rollout of owned 
hotels, primarily in the UK, that the Board 
believes will offer sustained earnings per share 
enhancing returns. Alongside growth of the 
owned hotel portfolio, our franchise network 
will continue to be expanded mostly outside the 
UK, which increases our network without direct 
capital investment from the Group.
Our successful share placing since the year 
end, on 17 October 2016, raised £38.0m 
(£36.7m after expenses) of additional equity 
capital. Alongside the refinancing of an existing 
bank facility shortly after the year end, sufficient 
capital has been secured to finance further 
growth in the Group’s identified hotel pipeline 
in line with the Board’s strategy.
The operational foundations necessary to 
achieve the Group’s exciting ambitions are 
now firmly in place. Moreover, the Board is 
confident that these plans will be delivered 
consistent with the values that distinguish the 
easyHotel brand from other providers in the 
sector – we make things simple; we are always 
the best value for money; we do what we say; 
and we care for you.
Dividend
An interim dividend of 0.1 1p per ordinary 
share was paid on 1 July 2016. The Board is 
now pleased to recommend to shareholders 
the payment of a final dividend of 0.22p per 
share on the basis of our enlarged share capital. 
Subject to shareholder approval at our 
forthcoming AGM, this dividend will be 
paid on 16 February 2017 to shareholders 
on the register on 13 January 2017 .
Board and management team
This has been the first full financial year 
under the management of Guy Parsons, 
Chief Executive Officer, and Marc Vieilledent, 
Chief Financial Officer, both of whom were 
appointed in 2015. The Group has benefited 
from their substantial budget hotel sector 
experience, commercial skills, hard work 
and the changes they have made to strengthen 
the team, operational processes and controls. 
Their insight into the industry, complemented 
by the property, financial and plc experience 
of the Non-Executive Directors, means the 
Board’s collective knowledge provides a strong 
basis for sound governance of the business. 
I am particularly grateful to my co-Director, 
Scott Christie, who has continued to play 
an exceptional role during a period of 
considerable activity.
easyHotel has an excellent team working hard 
to advance this ambitious business. On behalf 
of the Board, I would like to thank them for all 
their efforts and continued support. 
Outlook
The outlook for the business is most 
encouraging. With the right team now in place, 
a broader shareholder base and significant 
institutional support, the Group has an exciting 
opportunity ahead. We will continue to update 
shareholders regularly on our progress.
Jonathan Lane OBE
Non-Executive Chairman
28 November 2016
Chairman’s statement
Jonathan Lane OBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Trading has been in line with 
Board expectations during a 
period of management change. 
We now have a real opportunity 
to improve the performance 
of our existing portfolio and 
to accelerate expansion.
