 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
4
In November 2004 Borders & Southern gained licences to explore in 
nearly 20,000 square kilometres of the territorial waters of the Falkland
Islands. This acreage is located in the untested South Falkland Basin.
Chief
Executive’s
Review
             Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
FALKLAND ISLANDS EVALUATION
he Company’s specific objective was to investi-
gate the presence of a fold belt play to the south
of the Falkland Islands, the offshore continuation
of the Andes Mountain trend. Throughout the South American
continent, from Venezuela in the north through Colombia,
Peru, Bolivia and Argentina, fold belts provide one of the
most successful hydrocarbon plays. 
Fold belts usually contain numerous, simple geological
structures suitable for trapping hydrocarbons. Providing
there are good reservoir rocks and working source 
systems then fold belts can contain prolific hydrocarbon
provinces. Individual structures can contain billion barrel oil
fields or multi-tcf gas accumulations. Examples of such giant
fields include: El Furrial (Venezuela), Cusiana (Colombia)
and the San Martin / Cashiriari structures (Peru).
Prior to our exploration programme in the South Falkland
Basin there had been only limited evaluation of the fold
belt play. Hints that a play could exist were seen on 
legacy regional seismic data from 1992. However, this
data is insufficient to define where the play might best be
5
developed. In April / May of 2005 we acquired 2862 kilo-
metres of new 2D seismic data. Onboard processing
allowed us to confirm that the play existed and enabled us
to refine the survey during acquisition in order to cover the
most interesting structures. This is why there is a higher
density of seismic lines in the west of the licensed area.
There have been no exploration wells drilled in the basin.
Calibration of the seismic data, necessary for interpretation,
comes from Deep Sea Drilling Project (DSDP) wells located
to the east of the Falklands on the Maurice Ewing Bank and
from exploration wells located in the Malvinas Basin to the
west. These wells provide critical stratigraphic information
and demonstrate the presence of a high quality, organic rich
Cretaceous / Jurassic aged marine source rock.
Previous exploration drilling in the contiguous Malvinas
basin during the early 1980s resulted in several sub-
commercial discoveries. Oil flow rates in excess of 3000
bopd have been reported. Importantly the oil has been
typed to source rocks in the same stratigraphic interval
T
Tertiary
Cretaceous
Jurassic
Typical north-south
cross-section through
the fold belt
The Falkland Islands
        Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
6
as the source rocks cored in the DSDP wells. Similar
aged organic rich shales are also recorded onshore
South America, on the Antarctic Peninsula, in the Weddell
Sea, and off the west coast of South Africa. This gives a
high degree of confidence that this is a regional source
rock which will be present within Borders & Southern’s
licensed acreage.
Indirect evidence that source rocks are present and 
generating hydrocarbons within the licences come from a
clearly defined bottom simulation reflector, interpreted to
represent gas hydrates. There are also many seismic
amplitude and AVO anomalies within geologically sensi-
ble trapping configurations that might be indicative 
of hydrocarbons.
Borders & Southern’s regional work has demonstrated
that Upper Cretaceous / Tertiary sands are likely to have
been derived from the Falklands Massif to the north of the
Company’s acreage. Mapped canyons and channels 
indicate a north south sediment transport direction. 
The nearest outcrop to the licensed area is Beauchene
Island, located almost midway between the northern limit
of the acreage and the main Falkland Islands. The geology
of Beauchene Island is comprised of quartzitic sand-
stones and quartzites, interpreted to be of Devonian age
by analogy to the quartzites of the Port Stephens and Port
Stanley Formations on the main Falkland Islands. Erosion
of these sandstones and quartzites would provide 
excellent reservoirs in the contract area.
Falkland Islands
ATLANTIC  OCEAN
Argentina
0
0 50
50
100 150 Km
Miles 100
Chile
       FOLD  BELT  TREND
Oil discoveries
Gas discoveries 
Wells drilled in the late 1990s Falkland’s drilling campaign
Regional map illustrating 
the location of Borders 
& Southern’s licences in the
untested basin to the south 
of the Falkland Islands
     Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
7
Several prospective play fairways have been identified
and mapped, but the main targets are Late Cretaceous /
Tertiary sands within large anticlinal closures. Additional
stratigraphic plays also occur within this stratigraphic
interval. Subsidiary plays include Lower Cretaceous
sands within tilted fault blocks. This is similar to the proven
play of the Malvinas Basin.
2D SEISMIC INTERPRETATION
Detailed mapping of our new 2D seismic data has
revealed numerous structural leads. These comprise four-
way dip anticlinal closures, three-way dip thrust fault
closed structures, and tilted fault blocks. Many of these
structures are large. Seven leads have a mapped area of
closure over 50 sq km, with one structure exceeding 130
sq km. Significantly these structures display vertical 
closure in excess of 2 km which allows the possibility of
stacked reservoirs, providing multiple targets within the
same prospect. 
During the last 12 months we have undertaken a rigorous
technical evaluation. This started with a regional play fair-
way analysis taking in the whole of the South and East
Falkland Basins. Once the new data had been acquired,
we focused on the licensed area, and brought in specialist
help for specific projects, using experienced industry
consultants and experts from British universities. 
Projects have included geochemical and thermal model-
ling, structural modelling and restoration, seismic AVO
analysis, seismic reprocessing, seismic facies analysis,
and lead specific mapping. All of these studies have been
brought together to help reduce the exploration risks.
In addition to the technical studies we have commis-
sioned independent analysis of the operating environ-
ment and economics. The environment conditions are
described as similar to the West of Shetlands in the UK,
challenging but certainly within the capability of industry
practice. Due to the water depths of between 1500 and
2000 metres it is likely that a drill ship or a high specifica-
tion semi-submersible will be required for an exploration
well. Again, we will be using standard oil industry tech-
nology and the oil industry is already exploring in water
depths out to 3000 metres.
Critically, the minimum field size required for a commer-
cial development has been investigated. This was found
to be around 100 million barrels, assuming an oil price in
excess of $34 per barrel. In the exploration success case,
these volumes should be easily achievable given the size
of mapped structures.
A discovery would be developed using standard tech-
nology involving a Floating Production Storage
Offloading system whereby the crude oil is shipped
direct to market without the need for significant onshore
infrastructure.
NEXT STEPS
All the technical and commercial work we have under-
taken to date has reinforced our view that we have an
excellent position in the South Falklands Basin worthy of
exploration drilling.
In order to progress further we are currently evaluating
additional work programme options. One such option is
3D seismic acquisition. New 3D data would allow the
Company to have greater confidence in the reservoir dis-
tribution across the large structures and to better site
        Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
8
exploration wells. It may also provide direct hydrocarbon
indicators such as flat spots and amplitude anomalies
conforming to the mapped structure thereby significantly
reducing the technical risks. 
STRATEGY
The Company’s strategy is to build a portfolio of up to five
exploration projects in frontier basins, areas in which a
prolific petroleum system has yet to be defined. As 
frontier exploration has a higher technical risk profile than
exploration in mature basins, the scale of opportunity and
the potential rewards will need to be very large. 
One overriding technical constraint to the screening is the
focus on basins where there is a high degree of confi-
dence of a working source system, through either direct
(oil flow in wells) or indirect technical evidence (direct
hydrocarbon indicators from seismic or seeps).
The Company will seek to minimise the exploration risk
through high quality technical work and the application of
leading edge technologies.
We hope to secure large tracts of our targeted play fair-
ways so that if the drilling of the first prospect is success-
ful then there would be plenty of remaining potential. The
Company will also target those play fairways that contain
individual prospects of significant size. 
In contrast to the relatively high technical risks, the
Company intends to focus on countries where political
and commercial risks are considered to be relatively low. 
The Company sees its role in the industry as one where it
generates ideas, secures the acreage, funds the early
stage of exploration with the acquisition of 2D and/or 3D
seismic data and thereby takes out significant exploration
PL 018
Quad 61
Blocks 16 to 30
PL 019
Quad 62 
Blocks 16 to 30
PL 020
Quad 63
Blocks 16 to 30
PL 021
Quad 64
Blocks 1 to 30
PL 022
Quad 73
Block 1 to 5
3,668 sq km
3,668 sq km
3,668 sq km
7,381 sq km
1,213 sq km
100%
Operator
100%
Operator
100%
Operator
100%
Operator
100%
Operator
LICENCE AREA INTEREST
June 2005 Seismic Acquisition Programme
Fold belt trend
Contractor: Geophysical Services Incorporated
Vessel: GSI Admiral
Amount: 2862 km
A higher density of lines has help define the “sweet spot” of 
well imaged, simple folds within Falkland Islands territorial waters 
50 km
50km
61 62 63
64
73
OUR ACREAGE IN THE SOUTH FALKLAND BASIN
  Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
9
risk from the opportunity prior to attracting the larger com-
panies to help fund the drilling campaigns. 
Despite the sustained high price of oil and increased
pressure of reserve replacement, the industry majors are
still relatively risk averse and are not pursuing frontier
opportunities. This provides an excellent opportunity for
technically proficient small companies like Borders &
Southern for early entry and risk-reduction exploration
work prior to farming out.  
NEW OPPORTUNITIES
With the price of oil still relatively high, the competition for
acreage is fierce, particularly in proven and emerging
petroleum basins. As the Company screens opportunities
it needs to ensure the quality is as good as its existing
project and also that it focuses on projects that would
appeal to the larger companies. During the last 18 months
we have screened a number of opportunities, but as yet
have not secured a second project. The Company will
continue to take time in order to bring the right projects
into the portfolio.
During the last year we were pleased to welcome Bruce
Farrer into the Company. Bruce trained as a geologist and
joins us from BHP Billiton where he has worked for the last
15 years in various technical and project management
roles. He brings significant operational and evaluation
expertise to the Company based on his experience of
exploration and development projects in Europe, North
and West Africa and the Caribbean.
INDUSTRY OUTLOOK
During the last 18 months the price of oil increased 
to over $75 per barrel (July/August 2006) before falling
back to levels around $60 per barrel. This is still very high
when looking at a five-year trend as the early part of the
decade was characterised by prices around the $30 per
barrel level. Whilst some weakening of the price might
occur many commentators believe that it is unlikely that oil
prices will return to these levels in the short to medium term.
The impact of high oil prices on our business is two fold.
Firstly, there is increased competition for acreage, partic-
ularly in the proven hydrocarbon basins. Secondly, due to
the increased exploration, appraisal, and development
activity there is a higher demand for services, such as
seismic and drilling contractors, which flows through to
both costs and availability.
HOWARD OBEE
Chief Executive Officer
Bruce Farrer, Business Development Manager
 
