 Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
2
In the last 18 months the Company has made significant progress towards
its objective of building a successful exploration and production business. 
Chairman’s
Statement
uring this period the Company has completed
the processing and interpretation of the Falkland
Islands 2D seismic data and commissioned a
number of specialist studies all aimed at reducing the
technical exploration risk. 
The results of the technical work have confirmed our
belief that an excellent fold belt play exists to the south of
the Falkland Islands. The work also confirmed the scale of
the opportunity, with numerous structural leads mapped,
seven of which exceed 50 square kilometres in size.
These structures are potentially capable of holding very
large volumes of hydrocarbons.
The evaluation has produced far better results than
expected at the outset and the Company has been fortu-
nate to find that its acreage (in which we hold a 100%
interest) contains the majority of the play fairway.
D
              Borders & Southern Petroleum plc
The management team’s strategy from the outset was to
attract large Independent and major oil companies as
partners in the projects that we pursue. The challenge is
to determine the right time to bring in such partners by
way of a farmout. We need to optimise the commercial
terms of any agreement whilst reducing the technical risk
enough to attract the partner. 
In order to understand how major oil and gas companies
would perceive the current risk profile of Borders &
Southern’s licensed acreage, the Company invited a very
limited number of companies to review the data, with a
view to them potentially becoming a joint venture partner.
We did not believe it appropriate to launch a full farmout
campaign at this time. 
The selected small number of companies took up our invi-
tation and made multiple visits to our offices to review the
data. Discussions with some of these potential partners
are ongoing. 
In the meantime, in order to maintain the pace of explo-
ration the Company is currently evaluating the best way to
further reduce the technical risk. One option being con-
sidered is a focused 3D seismic survey. Therefore the
Company is working with consultants on 3D survey
design and assessing how much data is required to deliv-
er a significant risk reduction and how much it will cost. If
we proceed with 3D seismic acquisition then it is likely to
occur in the last quarter of 2007 at the start of the Austral
summer season.
3
Ultimately, of course, we want to drill our Falkland Islands
prospects as soon as practical. The objective is to align
the drilling programme with other licence holders in the
Falkland Islands region so that we can take advantage of
the cost benefits of a combined drilling programme.
Discussions with these licence holders are ongoing.
However, if a joint venture partner is brought into our
acreage, the incoming partner is likely to assume opera-
torship of our licences and will accordingly seek input into
the timing of exploration drilling. 
In addition to progressing the evaluation of the Falkland
Islands licences the management team has been assess-
ing opportunities in other regions with the intention of
adding new licences to the Company’s portfolio. Applying
strict screening criteria, the Company has been and will
continue to be very selective when considering new
licences. Borders & Southern will ensure that any 
additions to the exploration portfolio will be consistent
with our strategy and at least equal in quality to those
assets in our current portfolio.
Exploration in frontier regions is always challenging.
However the potential rewards are great. Borders &
Southern’s current portfolio holds the potential to discover
and prove up significant volumes of hydrocarbons. We
will continue to progress towards testing this potential. 
HARRY DOBSON
Chairman
      
