 2
Chairman’ s 	 Statement
Since	my	last	statement	to	shar eholders	
the	Company	has	made	significant	
pr ogr ess	in	r ealising	its	objective	of	
building	a	successful	exploration	and	
pr oduction	business.	Having	defined	
a	very	attractive	lead	inventory	based	
on	a	coarse	2D	seismic	grid	we	made	
the	decision	to	acquir e	new	3D	seismic	
over	part	of	our	acr eage	in	the	Falkland	
Islands,	with	a	particular	focus	on	large,	
high	impact	structural	targets.
The	planning	for	the	3D	commenced	in	January	
2007	with	the	tendering	pr ocess	starting	in	June.	
One	of	the	issues	we	faced	was	the	scale	of	
our	lead	inventory .	Our	objective	was	to	cover	
as	many	high	impact	leads	and	dif fer ent	play	
types	as	we	could.	W ith	the	incr eased	seismic	
acquisition	costs	due	to	high	global	demand	
we	needed	to	raise	additional	funds	in	or der	to	
maximise	the	survey	ar ea.	In	September	the	
Company	completed	the	successful	placing	of	
50,000,000	or dinary	shar es	of	1p	per	shar e,	
raising	£15	million.
Following	a	competitive	tender ,	PGS	wer e	
awar ded	both	the	seismic	acquisition	and	
pr ocessing	contracts.	During	our	discussions	
with	PGS	they	expr essed	an	inter est	in	
investing	dir ectly	in	the	Company	which	
r esulted	in	their	subscription	for	16,656,670	
new	or dinary	shar es	of	1p	per	shar e,	raising	
$10	million.	The	placement	and	subscription	
agr eements	gave	us	a	str ong	cash	position	
which	is	r eflected	in	our	year	end	cash	balance.
These	funds	allowed	us	to	acquir e	nearly	1500	
sq	km	of	3D	seismic,	far	exceeding	our	work	
pr ogramme	obligation	of	750	sq	km.	This	is	a	
large	survey	for	a	Company	of	our	size	but	we	
believe	it	gives	us	the	best	chance	to	deliver	
success. 3
	 Chairman’ s 	 Statement
The	seismic	operations	commenced	in	October	
2007	and	wer e	completed	in	February	2008.	
The	acquisition	was	finished	ahead	of	schedule	
and	within	budget.	Importantly	the	operations	
wer e	conducted	without	any	HSE	incidents.	
W e	contracted	marine	mammal	observers	on	
the	seismic	vessel	and	their	observations	have	
pr ovided	an	excellent	insight	into	the	wildlife	
in	the	ar ea.	This	new	data	will	be	incorporated	
into	the	Envir onmental	Impact	Assessment	(EIA)	
ahead	of	drilling.
As	we	look	forwar d,	our	aim,	fr om	a	technical	
perspective,	is	to	work	up	drillable	pr ospects	
by	the	end	of	the	year .	In	parallel	we	hope	to	
pr ogr ess	access	to	a	suitable	rig.	In	this	r egar d	
In	September	the	Company	completed	
the	successful	placing	of	50,000,000	
or dinary	shar es	of	1p	per	shar e,	raising	
£15	million.
we	ar e	working	with	other	Falkland	Islands	
operating	companies	to	identify	a	suitable	rig,	but	
equally	as	we	get	near er	to	finalising	the	technical	
evaluation	we	will	be	looking	at	all	possible	
options	for	rig	access.	
The	pr ocessing	of	the	3D	seismic	is	well	under	
way	and	we	ar e	just	starting	to	r eceive	some	
of	the	early	pr ocessing	r esults.	The	pr ospect	
generation	will	be	undertaken	using	the	final	
pr oduct	but	alr eady	the	fast	track	data	is	giving	
us	mor e	confidence	of	the	quality	of	our	acr eage	
and	the	pr ospect	of	delivering	r eal	value	to	our	
shar eholders.	As	an	untested	fr ontier	basin	the	
South	Falkland	basin	and	particularly	the	fold	belt	
tr end	looks	a	very	exciting	pr oposition.
