 ECSC Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 06
Building on its 16-year record of consistent organic growth and 
leveraging its reputation for quality and innovation, ECSC Group 
plc is transforming into a substantial cyber and information security 
service provider. Our strong organic revenue growth for the  
15 months ended December 2016 is a further stepping stone on 
this journey. Our IPO facilitates the next step in our growth plan, 
enabling an accelerated recruitment and training plan to be put in 
place and a further and significant expansion of our infrastructure 
and facilities.
The key mission of ECSC is to help secure networks and protect 
sensitive information. We do this through consultancy services and 
outsourced managed IT security services. In this regard, people are 
key to the ongoing success of the Company, particularly in our 
market sector, which is highly specialised. 
Over the past two years, ECSC has developed its own internal 
recruitment function, which continues to perform above our 
expectations. We are delighted with the volume and calibre of 
talented individuals, sourced by this department, who are looking 
to enhance their career through the training and support given to 
all ECSC employees. The Company’s aim is to establish ECSC as the 
employer of choice for all cyber and information security professionals.
Strong Market for ECSC Services
Extensive media coverage of cyber security incidents, both organisational 
and governmental, continues to raise awareness of the need for a 
developed cyber security plan at board level. This brings new 
opportunities for established and proven providers, such as ECSC. 
These opportunities are likely to be further augmented by the forthcoming 
EU GDPR, confi rmed by the Information Commissioner’s Offi ce (“ICO”) to 
become UK law in May 2018. GDPR signifi cantly increases the legal 
backdrop concerning the security of personal data that businesses may 
process or store:
•  The maximum fi ne for non-compliance with GDPR increases from  
the current £500,000, up to 4% of global turnover. This change is  
likely to elevate cyber security to a key strategic risk for all boards.
•  Reporting a breach will become mandatory under GDPR as  
compared with the current voluntary reporting. GDPR also requires 
reporting to be made within 72 hours of any incident, placing  
signifi cant challenges on organisations’ incident detection, analysis 
and reporting systems.
Whilst the ICO accepts that a post-Brexit government could change this 
legislation, the Directors believe the continuing requirement to share 
personal data with the European Union as part of the United Kingdom’s 
ongoing trading relationship would make any signifi cant change to GDPR 
very unlikely. ECSC is ideally placed to support organisations of all sizes in 
both their preparations for GDPR and their ongoing cyber security 
strategic requirements, whether through incident response, testing and 
assessment, standards compliance, or outsourced services.
The Board believes that, as the cyber security market continues to expand, 
the need for businesses to focus their own internal IT resources on their 
own products and services will mean that organisations are likely to 
continue to outsource their technical requirements in this highly 
specialised fi eld, and will increasingly gravitate towards outsourced 
managed service environments.
Summary
• Aim to establish ECSC as the employer  
of choice for cyber and information 
security professionals
• Extensive media coverage of cyber 
security incidents continues to raise 
awareness of cyber security at board level
• Incident Response Retainers introduced
• Newly refurbished UK Security 
Operations Centre formally opened  
in March 2017
Ian Mann
Chief Executive Officer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT ECSC Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 07
Financial statements Strategic report Directors’ report
Growing Range of ECSC Services
ECSC’s range of services continues to evolve to meet the changing cyber 
and information security threat environment. Our experience derived 
from 16 years of growth in the sector has demonstrated the need for ECSC 
to provide a broad range of cyber security services, enabling clients to 
migrate over time from initial consulting services to a fully outsourced 
managed IT security environment with recurring revenues. 
Incident Response services are growing in importance and the Board 
believes that this may increase further still as we approach the GDPR 
implementation date. In 2016, ECSC introduced incident response 
retainers, enabling clients to benefi t from a 24/7/365 guaranteed response 
from the ECSC Security Operations Centre (SOC), by retaining ECSC as 
their designated incident responder. In many cases, incident responses 
lead to requests for additional services.
Cyber Security Reviews are designed, using ECSC’s own methodology,  
to give board directors a high-level overview of their current protection 
and detection capability from external cyber attack. This service is 
expanding as board members look for expert third-party assurance 
beyond the traditional technical testing services.
Technical Penetration Testing remains a fundamental pillar of cyber 
security management, with most global standards requiring at least 
annual third-party testing. Backed by its CREST accreditation, ECSC is  
a proven provider of this service.
The global standards of ISO 27001 (information security management) 
and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) (payment 
card security) remain key organisational compliance requirements. ECSC 
has an expanding team of industry experts with many years of experience 
in the design and implementation of eff ective approaches to compliance. 
Key elements of these global standards are directly related to other ECSC 
services, such as testing and the provision of technologies delivered 
through our managed services. We continue to see extensive cross-selling 
opportunities in each of these engagements.
Cyber Essentials is a UK government-led initiative to promote basic cyber 
security good practice into small to medium sized organisations.  
As a certifying organisation, ECSC supports organisations across all sectors.
2016 saw ECSC launch a new division to resell a range of vendor security 
solutions. Included within this portfolio are a range of solutions already 
integrated into the ECSC managed services support service, giving 
enhanced opportunities to provide fully managed services.
The newly refurbished ECSC UK Security Operations Centre (“SOC”) was 
formally opened in March 2017; this enhanced infrastructure provides 
both new client-facing presentation facilities, together with signifi cantly 
augmented technical capabilities. The planned opening of the Australian 
SOC extension in summer 2017 will further enhance our 24/7/365 
capabilities, both for ongoing managed services and incident response.
Outlook
Following on from a strong 2016, our ongoing plan is to signifi cantly scale 
the business in 2017. The Board assesses the readiness of our clients to buy 
our services and this, together with the growth in the sector generally, 
make scaling the business at this time the right approach for ECSC. We are 
mindful, however, of the degree of change being executed within the 
business and we are approaching these signifi cant scale changes with 
appropriate care and attention. We have made a good start on our plan 
following the IPO, and we have well worked out plans to carry through our 
objectives. I would like to pass on my thanks to the capable and loyal staff 
of the Company for their support, which has enabled the Company to 
achieve the success it has to date.
Ian Mann
Chief Executive Offi cer
21 March 2017
I would like to pass on my thanks to the capable and loyal 
staff of the Company for their support, which has enabled  
the Company to achieve the success it has to date.  
