 4
Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review
It	was	one	hundr ed	years	this	May	since	
the	first	commer cial	oil	was	discover ed	
in	the	Middle	East.	The	discovery	was	
located	at	Masjid-i-Suleiman	in	the	
Zagr os	foothills	in	Iran	and	occurr ed	
some	30	years	prior	to	discoveries	in	
Saudi	Arabia	and	Kuwait.	The	Zagr os	
fold	belt	has	pr oven	to	be	one	of	the	
world’ s	most	pr olific	hydr ocarbon	
pr ovinces	and	continues	to	be	an	
important	ar ea	for	both	exploration	and	
pr oduction.	In	fact,	it	is	so	pr olific	that	it	
is	pr obably	atypical	of	fold	belts	ar ound	
the	world.	That	said,	commer cial	
hydr ocarbons	have	been	discover ed	
in	nearly	50	fold	belts,	accounting	
for	appr oximately	14%	of	the	world’ s	
discover ed	r eserves.	
It	is	the	chance	to	discover	multi-billion	barr el	
hydr ocarbon	pr ovinces	and	the	abundance	of	
large	simple	structural	traps	that	has	attracted	
petr oleum	explor ers	to	fold	belts.	Globally ,	37	
fold	belts	contain	giant	fields	(>250	million	barr els	
of	oil	equivalent),	and	16	have	total	r eserves	
of	mor e	than	3	billion	barr els	of	oil	equivalent.	
In	2000	the	US	Geological	Survey’ s	global	
assessment	of	r esour ces	concluded	that	fold	
belts	contained	some	15%	of	the	global	yet-to-
find	r esour ces.	
It	is	for	these	r easons	that	Bor ders	&	Souther n	
was	first	drawn	to	unlocking	the	potential	of	a	
pr eviously	undefined	fold	belt	play	in	the	South	
Falkland	Basin,	appr oximately	150	km	south	
of	the	Falkland	Islands.	Prior	to	our	2D	seismic	
acquisition	pr ogramme	only	limited	data	had	
existed,	and	it	was	far	fr om	certain	whether	
a	cr edible	exploration	play	would	materialise.	
However ,	on	r eceipt	of	the	pr ocessed	data	it	
became	clear	that	we	wer e	fortunate	to	have	
defined	a	new	fold	belt	play ,	the	majority	of	which	
falls	within	our	licensed	acr eage.
Whilst	fold	belts	have	always	attracted	explor ers	
they	have	also	frustrated	explor ers	due	to	the	
structural	complexity	in	the	face	of	often	poor	
quality	seismic	data.	The	r eason	for	this	is	that	
the	majority	of	fold	belts	occur	on	land	within	
major	mountain	ranges.	Seismic	acquisition	
is	dif ficult,	expensive	and	commonly	delivers	
r esults	which	can	support	dif fering	structural	
interpr etations.	In	contrast	to	many	of	these	
ar eas,	the	fold	belt	located	of fshor e	in	the	South	
Falkland	Basin	is	very	well	imaged	and,	as	
pr eviously	r eported,	has	allowed	us	to	define	
numer ous	large	(>50	sq	km)	anticlinal	traps	
capable	of	containing	giant	accumulations.		 5
Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review
W ith	the	completion	of	the	2D	seismic	
interpr etation	technical	risks	wer e	still	per ceived	
as	too	high	to	pr oceed	dir ectly	with	drilling	in	
this	untested	fr ontier	basin.	This	was	primarily	
due	to	the	coarse	seismic	grid	which	had	a	
line	spacing	of	appr oximately	5	km.	The	Boar d	
r eviewed	all	possible	options	for	risk	r eduction	
and	concluded	the	best	way	forwar d	was	to	
acquir e	a	3D	seismic	survey	over	part	of	the	play	
fairway .	Following	a	competitive	public	tender	
the	seismic	acquisition	and	pr ocessing	contracts	
wer e	awar ded	to	PGS.	
Prior	to	tendering	the	seismic	contracts	we	
enter ed	discussions	with	the	Falkland	Island	
Gover nment	about	a	possible	extension	to	
the	initial	exploration	term.	These	discussions	
r eached	a	successful	conclusion	with	the	awar d	
of	a	2	year	extension,	r epr esenting	a	total	of	5	
years	for	the	first	exploration	phase.	The	new	
expiry	date	is	1
st
	November	2009.	At	that	time	
Bor ders	&	Souther n	will	have	the	option	to	
further	extend	the	initial	exploration	term	in	lieu	of	
a	one	well	obligation	or	enter	the	second	5	year	
exploration	term	which	also	has	a	one	well	work	
pr ogramme	obligation.	This	means	the	Company	
has	suf ficient	time	to	fully	evaluate	and	test	its	
exploration	licences.
The 	 extension 	 was 	 granted 	 on 	 the 	 basis 	 that	
Bor ders 	 & 	 Southern 	 completed 	 a 	 minimum 	 work	
pr ogramme 	 obligation 	 of 	 750 	 sq 	 km 	 of 	 new 	 3D	
s e i s m i c 	 d a t a . 	 T h i s 	 w e 	 h a v e 	 a l r e a d y 	 a c h i e v e d 	 b y 	 t h e	
a c q u i s i t i o n 	 o f 	 1 4 9 2 	 s q 	 k m 	 o f 	 f u l l 	 f o l d 	 3 D 	 d a t a . 	 T h e	
survey 	 commenced 	 at 	 the 	 end 	 of 	 October 	 2007	
a n d 	 w a s 	 c o m p l e t e d 	 i n 	 F e b r u a r y 	 2 0 0 8 , 	 a h e a d 	 o f	
s c h e d u l e 	 a n d 	 w i t h i n 	 b u d g e t .	
The	full	pr ocessing	will	take	5	months	but	we	
have	r ecently	r eceived	a	fast	track	pr oduct.	
Whilst	we	do	not	intend	to	interpr et	this	data	as	
it	is	primarily	a	data	QC	pr oduct,	it	has	allowed	
us	to	make	some	initial	observations.	The	data	
quality	is	very	good,	and	particularly	good	for	
a	fold	belt.	The	seismic	is	giving	us	an	or der	of	
magnitude	mor e	information	than	we	pr eviously	
held	and	we	ar e	confident	that	we	now	have	the	
data	to	fully	assess	the	pr ospectivity	and	the	
associated	risks	in	our	acr eage.
The	3D	fast	track	pr oduct	has	confirmed	the	
structural	r obustness	of	the	pr ospects	that	
had	pr eviously	been	mapped.	Clear	four	way	
dip	closur es	can	be	seen	on	the	seismic	time	
slices.	Additionally ,	new	structur es,	albeit	smaller ,	
have	been	r ecognised.	These	structur es	had	
pr eviously	fallen	between	the	coarse	grid	of	
2D	lines.
The	data	has	also	pr ovided	us	with	gr eater	
r esolution	deeper	in	the	section.	This	will	allow	
us	to	map	pr eviously	undefined	sub-thrust	plays,	
older	ramp	anticlines	and	tilted	fault	blocks	along	
with	stratigraphic	plays.	As	a	consequence,	we	
would	anticipate	a	much	expanded	pr ospect	
inventory	after	the	mapping.		
The	new	data	demonstrates	to	us	that	the	
gas	hydrates	ar e	mor e	widely	distributed	than	
pr eviously	thought.	W e	ar e	starting	to	see	a	
systematic	r elationship	between	the	pr esence	
of	hydrates	and	the	anticline	cr ests	and	thrust	
faults.	This	will	be	investigated	further	on	the	final	
pr ocessed	pr oduct.	
Seismic section from the fast track 3D data. The bright horizontal amplitude anomaly near 
the crest of the anticline represents gas hydrates. Further amplitude anomalies appear in 
the core of the anticline.  6
Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review 	 - 	 continued
6
Chief 	 Executive’ s 	 Review 	 - 	 continued
Other	possible	indir ect	evidence	of	hydr ocarbons	
is	seen.	Amplitude	anomalies,	occurring	in	
geologically	sensible	trapping	configurations,	
have	been	noted.	Certain	stratigraphic	intervals	
appear	mor e	pr one	to	display	amplitude	
anomalies	over	dif fer ent	structur es	and	may	
ther efor e	be	pr oviding	us	with	information	on	
r eservoir	distribution.	It’ s	encouraging	news,	but	
it	is	too	early	to	say	whether	these	ar e	dir ect	
hydr ocarbon	indicators.	A VO	analysis	on	the	final	
pr oduct	should	pr ovide	mor e	answers.
W e	ar e	delighted	with	the	pr ogr ess	of	the	pr oject	
to	date	and	with	these	initial	observations	and	
look	forwar d	to	r eceiving	the	final	data	so	that	
the	har d	work	can	begin.
One	 additional	 benefit	 fr om	 acquiring	 a	 3D	 survey	
is	that	we	will	not	have	to	undertake	site	surveys	
prior	to	drilling.	The	vertical	r esolution	and	aerial	
coverage	of	3D	seismic	data	in	deep	water	can	
be	used	to	identify	shallow	geohazar ds	and	
gauge	seabed	stability .	Furthermor e,	the	detailed	
imaging	of	the	sea	floor	will	assist	the	benthic	
sampling	pr ogramme	that	will	be	undertaken	as	
part	of	the	EIA.	
Strategically ,	we	hope	to	have	matur e	pr ospects	
with	drilling	locations	in	the	fourth	quarter	of	
this	year .	Our	aim	is	to	align	our	technical	work	
pr ogramme	with	the	other	Falkland	operating	
companies	so	that	we	can	take	advantage	of	a	
shar ed	drilling	campaign.	In	that	r egar d	we	ar e	
working	together	trying	to	sour ce	rigs.	Rig	supply	
shows	no	signs	of	easing	at	the	moment,	but	our	
aim	is	to	advance	our	technical	work	so	that	we	
can	take	advantage	of	any	opportunity	should	it	
arise.	In	the	meantime	we	intend	to	pr ogr ess	our	
EIA,	a	r equir ement	ahead	of	drilling.
Prior	to	committing	to	a	rig	we	will	need	to	
r eview	our	funding	options.	W e	curr ently	have	a	
very	healthy	cash	balance,	but	unfortunately	this	
is	not	enough	to	cover	our	drilling	aspirations.	
At	the	appr opriate	time	the	Boar d	will	decide	
whether	to	initiate	a	farmout	of	the	acr eage	or	to	
seek	additional	funding	(or	a	combination).	W e	
ar e	very	fortunate	to	have	an	extr emely	attractive	
fr ontier	exploration	pr oject	on	our	hands	and	
we	need	to	make	sur e	we	optimise	value	for	the	
shar eholders.
Seismic time slice from part of the fast track 3D data. Robust structural closures are clearly 
recognized - the oval shapes represent a horizontal section through the anticlines. 7
Location map showing the position of our acreage relative to the Falkland Islands and the South American continent. 
The highlighted oil and gas discoveries represent approximately 6 billion barrels of oil equivalent. The petroleum system 
responsible for these discoveries, based on a Late Jurassic / Early Cretaceous marine source rock, is the same petroleum 
system that we anticipate to be present south of the Falkland Islands and is completely independent from that of the North 
Falkland Graben.
Chile
Argentina
Falkland Islands
0
0
50
50
100 Mi.
KEY
Oil Discovery
Gas Discovery
North Falkland Basin wells 150 Km. 100
Borders & Southern Licences
