 ECSC Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016 05
Financial statements Strategic report Directors’ report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am pleased to report that the Company  
is making first class progress in scaling  
its business.
I am pleased to present this maiden set of results to 
our shareholders following the Company’s admission 
to AIM in December 2016. 
2016 was a transformational year for ECSC, which saw the 
Company deliver record revenues and be admitted to AIM on  
14 December 2016, raising £5.0m (excluding IPO expenses). The 
response to our admission has been very positive. The listing has 
provided us with an excellent register of new shareholders and a 
heightened industry profi le which has helped facilitate the 
recruitment of a fi rst-class group of new employees. I believe this 
demonstrates confi dence in both the Company’s strategic plan, 
centred on strong organic growth and expansion of its business, 
together with the management team’s ability to deliver and 
generate returns for shareholders in what we see as an attractive 
and buoyant cyber security market. The Board joins me in 
welcoming all our new stakeholders to the Company. 
We believe there is an opportunity to substantially increase the 
scale of ECSC’s business to meet current demand and predicted 
market growth within the UK cyber security sector. The UK cyber 
security sector was worth approximately £3.3 billion in 2016, with 
the global opportunity predicted to grow to US$202 billion by 
2021. Our vision and strategy is to build signifi cantly upon our 
organic growth to date and blue-chip client base. Our listing 
provides us with working capital to execute our growth strategy. 
In this regard, I am pleased to report that the Company is making  
fi rst-class progress in scaling its business. Since admission to AIM: 
headcount has increased from 57 to 98; all of the new sales and 
delivery employees targeted for this stage of our growth plan 
have been employed; all new sales staff have successfully 
completed their training and assessments; our new Leeds facility 
is already operational, having opened in January 2017; our new 
Australian support centre to help 24-hour service provision and 
our new London base are both targeted to open in the summer of 2017 .  
The Board continues to believe that the market opportunity is 
robust, with the proliferation of cyber security breaches enhancing 
the importance of cyber security at board level and serving to 
increase our growth prospects. Furthermore, new legislation 
under consideration by the Information Commissioner’s Offi ce will, we 
believe, bring cyber security prevention into even sharper focus. The 
European General Data Protection Regulations (“GDPR”) directive 
(expanded upon in the Business Review) intended to harmonise data 
protection regulations throughout the EU and to strengthen the 
enforcement regime is confi rmed to become law in the UK in 2018. This 
legislation will make breach reporting mandatory and provide for fi nes of 
up to 4% of global turnover or up to $20m (whichever is the greater) for 
cases of serious non-compliance.
With our expansion plans underway and with strong organic revenue 
growth, we believe that we are well positioned to increase our market 
share of the UK cyber security services market, a market which is presently 
somewhat fragmented. We believe that many of our peers only provide a 
small portion of what is required to meet clients’ needs and that, in 
contrast, ECSC provides a wide range of cyber and information security 
solutions, enabling us to capitalise on a buoyant market opportunity. Our 
fi rst full year as a public company will see us tackle the many tasks involved 
in scaling up the business and delivering very signifi cant revenue growth. 
The quality of our people and established momentum are good initial 
indicators that ECSC is well equipped to take advantage of the 
opportunities available to us in our chosen market.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all our employees and 
shareholders for their continued support over the last year. The Board 
looks forward to the forthcoming year with confi dence.
Nigel Payne
Chairman
21 March 2017
Nigel Payne
Chairman
Directors’ Report pages 16 - 17
