 Borders & Southern Annual Report 2008 3
Activity in 2008 has seen the Company 
focus on its technical objectives. During 
this period we have completed the 
acquisition and processing of a large 3D 
survey and finalised its interpretation. 
The results of this work have yielded 
what we believe to be a very attractive 
and exciting prospect inventory.
Against a challenging economic background, 
the Company, whilst experiencing a decrease in 
value along with market trends, has performed 
well relative to its peer group of AIM listed 
Exploration & Production Companies. We also 
have a strong cash balance. 
During the period we have witnessed the oil price 
decline from $147 per barrel down to around 
$35 per barrel. Recently the oil price has showed 
signs of recovery with prices approaching $60 
per barrel again. However, it should be noted that 
our projects in the Falkland Islands are likely to 
be commercial at the $35 level.
Whilst we cannot impact the external 
environment, we can influence the technical 
evaluation by the correct choice of data 
acquisition and the areas we select in which 
to collect the data. In this regard, the Board 
of Directors considers that it has been very 
successful. Multiple, high quality, large volume 
prospects have been defined, many of which 
are supported by geophysical attributes of 
the type we had hoped for at the onset of the 
exploration programme.
With the completion of the main phase of 3D 
seismic interpretation there will be no further 
requirement for additional data acquisition 
prior to drilling a well. We are now in a position 
to define drilling locations on our prioritised 
prospects. As we have previously reported, the 
first two high-graded prospects are Darwin 
and Stebbing.
As we look forward, technical work will continue 
but our energy will be placed into bringing a 
partner into the licences to help fund the wells. 
Given the scale and quality of the prospect 
inventory we are optimistic that we can attract a 
credible partner. 
Chairman’s Statement
Borders & Southern Petroleum has a 100% interest in five deep 
water production licenses in the South Falkland Basin (80 blocks, 
nearly 20,000 sq km). The basin is untested, comprising similar 
geology to the contiguous Malvinas and Magallanes Basins to the 
west where discoveries of approximately six billion barrels of oil 
equivalent have been reported. 4 Borders & Southern Annual Report 2008
