 Borders & Southern Annual Report 2008 5
The technical programme undertaken in 
2008 involved the acquisition, processing 
and interpretation of 1,492 sq km of 3D 
seismic data. The 3D data has been fully 
integrated into our regional evaluation 
so that we now have a comprehensive 
understanding of the South Falkland 
Basin. As a result, not only have we been 
able to define a high quality multi-billion 
barrel (recoverable) prospect inventory, 
but also identify those play types within 
the basin that we think are most likely to 
deliver success.
As previously reported, the step change in 
understanding from 2D to 3D seismic data 
has been dramatic and justifies the size and 
expenditure of the 3D survey. Prospect sizes 
are large (up to 150 sq km of mapped structural 
closure) and display important geophysical 
attributes that help reduce the risk. These include 
seismic amplitude conformance to structure, flat 
spot and AVO anomalies, along with gas hydrates 
located above prospects. We interpret these 
seismic attributes to indicate that the structures 
have received a hydrocarbon charge.
Individual prospect volumes in some cases 
exceed 1 billion barrels of recoverable oil. 
The previously reported Darwin and Stebbing 
prospects have P50 recoverable oil volumes of 
300 million and 710 million barrels respectively. 
Additional stacked reservoirs on the same 
structures could increase these numbers. These 
prospects represent different play types and 
have been prioritised due to the chance of 
success rather than size. 
Whilst the exploration drilling programme will 
target high-graded oil prospects, each prospect 
has also been considered as a gas case. If gas 
was the only outcome, and we consider it 
unlikely, then the prospect gas volumes would 
be sufficient to justify an LNG development. 
Individual prospect volumes can exceed (P50) 
5 trillion cubic feet of recoverable gas.
Chief Executive’s Review
 6 Borders & Southern Annual Report 2008
Chief Executive’s Review (continued)
Aside from producing a ranked prospect 
inventory we have conducted a benthic sampling 
programme, one of the key requirements for the 
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA). The 
operations were completed efficiently and the 
analysis is currently underway. Once the EIA has 
been submitted and approved we will be ready 
to drill and should the opportunity arise will be 
able to share in a combined drilling operation 
with other operators in the area.
Whilst the Company has a strong cash balance it 
does not have sufficient funds to execute a two 
well programme. Given the economic climate 
the Board has decided the best way to finance 
our wells is to seek a partner. Within the coming 
months we will further discussions with third 
parties and will report later in the year. Given 
the strength of the prospect inventory, scale of 
opportunity and the quality of the geophysical 
attributes, the Board is confident of securing a 
competent partner.
The naming theme for our 
prospects has been chosen to 
celebrate the exploration voyage of 
HMS Beagle under the command 
of Robert FitzRoy. Each prospect is 
named after a member of the crew 
or passenger on the ship. During 
the Beagle’s circumnavigation of 
the world it carried out important 
surveying work of the South 
American coastline, including the 
Falkland Islands where it stopped 
twice in 1833 and 1834. 
Charles Darwin joined the voyage 
as a companion to Robert FitzRoy. 
Famous for his observations and 
theories as a naturalist, which led 
to the publication of his work On 
The Origin of Species, Darwin was 
also a very good geologist. He had 
been inspired by the work of Charles 
Lyell and carried Lyell’s book 
“Principles of Geology” with him on 
the voyage. This book suggested that 
modern day geological processes 
such as sediment erosion and 
deposition and volcanic eruptions 
had occurred in the past. Because of 
the incredibly slow pace of many of 
these processes, it pointed towards 
a vast timescale for the age of the 
earth, a very controversial issue at 
the time. Darwin’s own observations 
from the voyage supported this 
view.  He collected many geological 
specimens, including fossils from 
the Falkland Islands, now kept 
in the Natural History Museum 
in London.
As explorers for oil and gas we 
use many of the basic principles of 
geology described in Lyell’s book to 
help us understand the sedimentary 
basins responsible for the generation 
and entrapment of hydrocarbons. 
Today, with the advancement of 
science, we now know that the age 
of the source rocks surrounding the 
Falklands (those organic rich rocks 
responsible for the generation of 
hydrocarbons) are between 120 and 
160 million years old.
Prospect Inventory – Key Features
 Multi-billion barrel recoverable prospect potential
 Structurally robust prospects up to 150 sq km in area
 Amplitude conformance to structure
 Credible flat spot and AVO anomalies
 Gas Hydrates above prospects
 Multiple play types and large prospect inventory
