 04
Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc 
annual report and accounts 2009
go online
www.bordersandsouthern.com
In	November	2009	the	first	Exploration	
p h a s e 	 o f 	 o u r 	 P r o d u c t i o n 	 L i c e n c e s 	 r e a c h e d	
a conclusion. As Borders & Southern had 
f u l fi l l e d 	 a l l 	 o f 	 i t s 	 w o r k 	 p r o g r a m m e 	 o b l i g a t i o n s	
and had worked up an impressive prospect 
inventory, we requested a three year extension 
to	this	first	phase	from	the	F alkland	Islands	
Government. This was subsequently granted 
so long as we commit to drill one exploration 
well during that period.
During the year we continued to work our seismic 
data	and	continued	to	refine	our	prospect	inventory .	
In addition, we purchased more 2D non-exclusive 
regional seismic data covering areas outside our 
licensed acreage. The purpose of this was to improve 
our knowledge of the basin as a whole, which could 
be fed back into the evaluation of our prospects.
We also progressed our Environmental Impact 
Assessment. This led to the submission of our 
Environmental Impact Statement in February 2010. 
A public consultation was subsequently held in the 
Falkland Islands allowing feedback on the document 
and having responded to questions, we now await 
approval from the Falkland Islands Government. 
Prior to our fundraising in November 2009, consultants AGR 
completed initial well designs for our Darwin and Stebbing 
wells along with some initial cost estimates. Darwin and 
S t e b b i n g 	 h a v e 	 b e e n 	 h i g h 	 g r a d e d 	 a s 	 t h e 	 b e s t 	 first	tests	of	
our acreage as they are robust structural traps and have 
impressive geophysical attributes that help to reduce risk. 
Also, in the case of Darwin, there are good success case 
analogues in the contiguous Malvinas and Magellanes 
basins to the west. 
Although exploration risk can never be eliminated, we 
are particularly excited about drilling these prospects. 
The two prospects are completely independent of each 
other except that they require the same source rock 
to be working. We will therefore be learning as much 
as we can about the geology and petroleum systems 
of our acreage. 
As I write this review, operations in the North Falkland 
Basin are underway. As reported previously, the geology 
in the North Falklands Basin is completely different 
from that in the South. The prime difference is that the 
sediments in the North were deposited in lakes whilst 
the sediments in the South were deposited in a marine 
environment. Consequently, the outcomes in the north, 
both positive and negative have absolutely no impact 
on the prospectivity of our acreage.
chief executive’s review
Schematic cross section 
illustrating the Stebbing 
and Darwin prospects.
Stebbing Darwin 05
Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc 
annual report and accounts 2009
go online
www.bordersandsouthern.com
Shortly ,	the	first	well	in	the	South	F alkland	Basin	will	be	
drilled, operated by BHP Billiton. Our understanding is 
that their prospect is a structural/stratigraphic trap. 
This	contrasts	with	the	structural	traps,	defined	by	3D	
seismic, that we will be drilling. So whilst their well will 
be drilling similar geology, in detail the prospects are 
considered	significantly	different.	The	key	differences	
are the age of reservoir and seal, the source kitchen 
and migration pathways and importantly, the 
trapping mechanism. 
T echnical work on our acreage will continue. For instance 
we have recently kicked off a pre-stack depth migration 
study of the Stebbing prospect and a pore pressure 
prediction study for both prospects. However, the majority 
of the technical activity will be focused on detailed 
well engineering. 
Currently our energies are directed towards accessing 
a deep water rig. We are fully funded to cover all of the 
drilling and mobilisation costs. Hopefully, we will be able 
to share some of the mobilisation and demobilisation costs 
with other operators in the region.
Howard Obee
Chief Executive
what’s next... drilling two of our 
key prospects
Darwin	and	Stebbing	have	been	selected	as	the	first	
targets in our acreage. They are completely independent 
other than requiring the same source rock. This means 
that they have different aged reservoirs and seals, different 
source kitchens and migration pathways and different 
structural styles. 
Darwin	in	a	robust	tilted	fault	block	with	a	Lower	
Cretaceous aged reservoir interval. The prospect has 
a	flat	spot,	amplitude	conformance	to	structure	and	an	
AVO anomaly. P50 resource estimates for the anomaly 
alone are 300 million barrels of recoverable oil. P50 resource 
estimates for the entire structure down to the mapped 
spill point are 760 million barrels of recoverable oil.
Stebbing is a robust simple fold with reservoir intervals 
in the Tertiary and Upper Cretaceous. The prospect has 
AVO anomalies in the Tertiary. P50 resource estimates for 
the combined reservoir intervals are 1,280 million barrels 
of recoverable oil.
If either or both of the prospects are successful then 
there is plenty of follow up potential in the 3D area. 
Similar folds and tilted fault blocks have been mapped 
and evaluated along with many interesting structural/
stratigraphic traps. The 3D area represents 7.6% of the 
total area under licence. Success would also lead to 
an expansion of the area covered by 3D seismic.
Howard Obee
Chief Executive
“ Exploration risks can never 
be eliminated, but we are 
particularly excited about 
the drilling of the Darwin 
and Stebbing prospects.”
