 02
Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc 
annual report and accounts 2009
go online
www.bordersandsouthern.com
During the course of 2009 there was 
a notable change in sentiment within 
the oil sector. At the start of the year the 
oil price was around $35 per barrel, global 
exploration had been scaled back and 
share prices of oil companies had fallen. 
However, the oil price progressively 
increased towards $80 per barrel by 
the end of the year and this rise was 
accompanied by a noticeable change 
in appetite for exploration risk, including 
frontier exploration. This was partly 
to do with success stories in places 
such as Ghana, Uganda, Kurdistan 
a n d 	 S i e r r a 	 L e o n e . 	 I n 	 t h e 	 fi r s t 	 h a l f 	 o f	
2010 the oil price has stabilised around 
the $80 to $85 per barrel mark.
Against this background, our activity during the 
year involved consolidating our prospect inventory and 
initiating preliminary well planning. We have also focused 
o n 	 e n s u r i n g 	 s u f fi c i e n t 	 f u n d s 	 a r e 	 a v a i l a b l e 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 i n i t i a l	
drilling programme. Deep water wells are expensive and 
having commissioned a well cost analysis, the board 
considered that it required around $185 million to fund 
2 to 3 wells with contingency, assuming 100% funding 
of the wells along with all the mobilisation and 
demobilisation costs of the rig and equipment. 
In November 2009 the Board decided that the market 
conditions were right to support a major fundraising 
and the company successfully raised $190 million 
(before expenses) at a price equivalent to the then 
market price. The response was incredible and we 
were delighted with the quality of the new institutional 
shareholders. We believe that the positive response 
f r o m 	 m a j o r 	 f u n d s 	 r e fl e c t s 	 t h e 	quality	of	the	technical	
case and the quality of the work undertaken to date but 
most importantly, the quality of the initial prospects that 
have been prioritised for drilling.
I would like to welcome our new shareholders and thank 
them for their support. I would also like to thank our new 
joint-brokers Mirabaud, along with existing joint-brokers 
Panmure Gordon and Ocean Equities, for their help in 
making the issue such a success.
chairman’s statement
View of Stanley from 
Mount Tumbledown. 03
Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc 
annual report and accounts 2009
go online
www.bordersandsouthern.com
Borders & Southern’s cash balance of $206.3 million 
at year end allows us to move forward independently 
to fund the wells that we would like to drill and to set 
our own time line. In this regard, we are currently trying 
to source a deep water rig to be active in the next 
summer season in the Falklands (the back end of 2010 
and	the	first	quarter	of	2011).	There	are	rigs	available	
in this time frame but it is a competitive environment 
with others competing for the same rigs. However, we 
are optimistic that we can meet our objectives and will 
inform shareholders once we have secured a suitable rig. 
As we look forward, the next twelve months should prove 
the most exciting in our short history as we source a rig, 
finalise	the	well	planning	and	begin	drilling	the	acreage.	
Harry Dobson
Non-Executive Chairman
our aims... apply industry leading technology 
and petroleum systems analysis
Harry Dobson
Non-Executive Chairman
“ The fund raising in November 
was a tremendous success. 
Our forward programme 
is now fully funded which 
allows us to control our 
own destiny.”
We operate from the Falkland Islands
Borders & Southern’s objective is to test 
the hydrocarbon potential of the east-west 
trending fold belt, located approximately 
150 km to the south of the Falkland Islands. 
This fold belt trend contains numerous large 
simple structures (up to 150 sq km in area), 
including thrust cored anticlines and tilted 
fault	blocks.	The	clear	definition	of	these	
structures has been achieved through the 
acquisition of 2,862 km of 2D seismic and 
1,492 sq km of 3D seismic.
Our	corporate	offices.	Borders	&	Southern	
P etroleum	plc,	are	based	in	London,	UK .
Drilling sites located here
