 24661    8 April 2016 4:21 PM    Proof One
eg solutions plc annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 January 2016
4
Chief Executive’s Statement
“We are well placed to support both the digital and omni-channel 
requirements of our customers, enabling them to deliver consistent 
service and optimise performance across all channels.”
Overview
The successful placing in January 2015 
raised £3.2m to continue the investment 
required to earn our place as the global 
leader in the market we pioneered. The 
focus of the remainder of FY2016 was 
then to build on the successes of the 
prior year and increase investment in the 
fundamentals of the business to prepare 
for growth. 
Our growth strategy is based on three 
core objectives:
•	 Increasing recurring revenues to 
provide improved visibility and quality of 
earnings;
•	 Winning new customers in existing and 
new territories and across a range of 
business sectors; and
•	 Retaining our blue chip customer 
base by sustaining the tangible results 
achieved from using our software and 
Operational Management practices.
Our improved balance sheet has enabled 
us to invest for the long-term in additional 
sales resources and marketing activities to 
win new clients both in the UK and in key  
new territories. 
Our order book  
of multi-year contracts 
now stands at
£17.4m
to be recognised over 
next four years
We have also invested in developing  
our Managed Cloud Service proposition, 
including achieving ISO27001 accreditation 
to ensure we meet the information security 
requirements of our customers.
As a result, in-year revenue remained 
similar to the prior year, while recurring 
revenues increased 35% year-on-year. 
Our order book of multi-year contracts 
now stands at £17.4m, up a further 
£0.3m since our trading update in January 
2016. This revenue will be recognised 
over the next four years providing a firm 
foundation for sustained future revenue 
growth. We will continue to focus on sales 
of multi-year contracts.
Customer Base Growth
Multiple contract wins were secured with 
new and existing customers in the UK 
and in new territories. We increased our 
footprint in existing market verticals such 
as financial services and successfully 
developed business in new territories 
through partners and direct sales. Major 
new contracts during the period include:
•	 A licence extension at a major 
European bank to include Collections & 
Fraud teams;
•	 A licence extension at a global bank to 
incorporate commercial & investment 
banking;
•	 Further roll-outs for a major UK third 
party outsourcing company;
•	 Further deployments with an 
international Telecoms provider and 
a new customer win in mortgage 
lending in the USA through the Aspect 
partnership;
•	 Two new banking sector pilots in 
Europe and Australia with significant 
roll-out potential;
•	 Major upgrade for a UK banking 
customer;
•	 Contract win with the insurance division 
of a challenger bank; and
•	 Conversion of perpetual licences for an 
existing client to our Managed Cloud 
Services. 24661   8 April 2016 4:21 PM    Proof One
www.egsplc.com
5
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
In addition, having secured our first 
contract in Local Government in January 
2015, over the remainder of the year we 
successfully completed deployments 
within 18 local government authorities 
around the UK. 
In December 2015, a strategic review of 
our customer value proposition by third 
party advisors concluded that customer 
satisfaction remains high, with our 
solutions described as “well packaged 
and well executed by great people”. 
Our strategy of providing excellent 
delivery based on guaranteed returns, 
together with significant and sustainable 
operational improvements, continues to 
resonate with our customers.
Market Development
The emerging back office optimisation 
market continues to develop. Businesses 
are seeking to improve the end customer 
experience across multiple channels, 
to optimise their use of resources 
across these channels and to maintain 
compliance with increasingly stringent 
regulatory and security requirements. 
With the increase in digital business, 
customer transactions are shifting from 
the traditional and physical to data-centric 
methods, giving rise to an increase in 
transactions across all channels. At 
the same time, customers now expect 
near or real-time responses, regardless 
of how they transact, and a key driver 
for businesses is to significantly reduce 
complex back office processing time and 
achieve real-time insight into the whole 
customer eco-system. 
Investment in the back office has 
traditionally been a low priority but it 
can no longer be ignored. It is a major 
contributor to the success of the 
customer experience and, according to 
Frost & Sullivan’s recent report, can often 
be the engine that drives organisational 
performance from behind the scenes.
Core functionality within the eg 
operational intelligence
®
 software suite, 
our flagship product, was designed to 
address these requirements:
•	 Multi-channel transaction capture 
to provide a single view of all work 
regardless of channel;
•	 Real-time, multi-level, multi-dimensional 
operational intelligence for customer 
operations and customer experience 
management;
•	 Efficient allocation of work to an 
increasingly disparate, mobile workforce 
wherever it is in the world, together with 
the means to automatically evaluate 
their performance.
As a result, we are well placed to support 
both the digital and omni-channel 
requirements of our customers, enabling 
them to deliver consistent service and 
optimise performance across all channels 
regardless of where their workforce is 
and, at the same time, providing true 
insight into the end-to-end customer 
journey. 
Product Development
Following the placing in January 2015, 
the Group has invested significantly 
in accelerating product development. 
Investment in R&D is up 65% on FY2015. 
We have continued to invest in our 
market-leading software to ensure we can 
continue to meet customer requirements 
“out of the box”. This has always been 
a unique selling point for our product, 
enabling our customers to quickly realise 
benefits and achieve guaranteed return on 
investment. 
As a result of this investment, two 
new products, eg forecasting
™
 
and eg mobile
™
, were launched in 
September 2015. The development of 
eg forecasting
™
 was part funded by 
Innovate UK, the UK’s innovation agency, 
through its Smart Scheme. Innovate UK 
offers funding to small and medium-sized 
enterprises to engage in R&D projects 
in the strategically important areas of 
science, engineering and technology. 
The new eg mobile
™
 product is an 
extension of the eg operational 
intelligence
®
 software suite and was 
launched at The Shard in London on 
23 September 2015. It is designed to 
enable work to be allocated to, and 
the performance monitored of, mobile 
and remote workers. It also provides 
alerts and notifications for operational 
managers on the move on KPIs that affect 
performance, such as approaching SLA 
deadlines and breaches. 
These new developments further 
enhance our product suite with advanced 
forecasting and capacity planning 
capability, as well as extending the 
reach of our software to planning teams, 
mobile workers and remote operational 
managers. 
Our software now ensures work can 
be allocated and performance can be 
optimised regardless of business channel 
and wherever work takes place in the 
world.
People
Employee engagement is also a high 
priority for our business and morale 
continues to be high. During FY2016 we 
were delighted to achieve an Outstanding 
Employer accreditation by workplace 
engagement specialists Best Companies, 
recognising our commitment to employee 
satisfaction and engagement.
The whole eg team worked extremely 
hard during the year to deliver excellent 
results for our customers throughout the 
world. I would like to thank them for their 
contribution and continuing commitment. 
Elizabeth Gooch
Chief Executive Officer
22 March 2016
