 06 Egg plc Annual Report 2003
2003 has been a challenging yet successful year for Egg.
The performance underlying the Group pre-tax loss of 
£34 million reflects a year of two extremes. 
The UK business has performed exceptionally well, with
profit more than doubling to £73 million. Egg has continued
to leverage its distinctive voice in the marketplace, 
giving Egg customers a better relationship with, and
understanding of, their money, and campaigning on behalf
of the consumer to change unfair practice in the industry. 
In France, however, the underlying business performance
has been very disappointing. We do believe a significant
market opportunity exists for a consumer-sided financial
services business such as Egg, but we are not prepared 
at this stage to make the required additional investment 
on a stand-alone basis. We believed it to be in
shareholders’ best interests for Egg to form an alliance
with a strategic partner with regard to our French business.
However, these negotiations have been put on hold
following our majority shareholder, Prudential plc,
announcing in January 2004 that it is considering
proposals relating to the possible disposal of its
shareholding in us.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all Egg
people for their hard work, energy and commitment 
during the year. We celebrated our fifth anniversary this
year which allowed us a moment’s recollection of the
tremendous amount that has been achieved and this 
is due principally to the spirit and drive of Egg people. 
Chairman’s statement
Roberto Mendoza
It’s been a challe 
successful year 07 Egg plc Annual Report 2003
There were a number of changes to your Board this year.
Chief Financial Officer, Stacey Cartwright, resigned after four
years of excellent service to continue her career in the retail
sector. Richard Delbridge, Chairman of the Audit Committee
and Non Executive Director, tendered his resignation in
December. Richard chaired the Audit Committee with
distinction and made an invaluable contribution to the 
Board. Both Stacey and Richard leave with our warmest
thanks and good wishes for their future endeavours.
We were delighted to welcome Pascal Cagni, David Doyle,
Mark Nancarrow, and Ronnie Baird to the Board. Pascal
joins Egg as a Non Executive Director and is also Vice
President and General Manager Europe, Middle East and
Africa at Apple. He brings a wealth of relevant experience
to the Board, particularly in supporting Egg’s drive to 
help consumers use digital technology to improve their
understanding and management of money. David joins 
as Chief Financial Officer from Prudential plc, where he
was Head of Corporate Finance. Mark, our Chief Operating
Officer, has been with Egg since its launch and has been
instrumental to the success of Egg in the UK. Ronnie 
joins Egg as a Non Executive Director and has had a
distinguished career at Lloyds Bank, the Bank of England
and The Financial Services Authority. I am sure all of 
them will make an important and valuable contribution 
to the Board.
Y ou will be aware from company announcements 
made this year by Egg and by our majority shareholder,
Prudential plc, that 2004 is likely to hold significant change
for Egg. At the time of writing this report, Prudential has
announced that it has begun a process which will allow
interested parties to make an offer for its shareholding in
Egg. Any such offer would also have to be made to all other
shareholders under the Listing Rules. The outcome of these
discussions is by no means certain, but what I can tell you is
that the management team and people at Egg have built a
truly unique business which continues to go from strength to
strength. Egg remains an ambitious company with exciting
growth prospects. Naturally, we will keep shareholders
advised of progress as much as it is possible to do so. 
We remain intent on leveraging Egg’s unique brand
proposition to create substantial long-term value. 
Roberto Mendoza
nging yet
