 24661   8 April 2016 4:21 PM    Proof One
www.egsplc.com
3
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Chairman’s Statement
Underlying  
sales growth of
17%
“We have had a solid year with a continued increase in our order 
book and a strong increase in recurring revenues. We have 
invested in our product and it remains the market leader. This lays 
solid foundations for the future and we will continue to work to 
develop our sales and marketing capability to deliver on the clear 
and substantial market opportunity.”
Overview
FY2016 was a year in which eg continued 
to strengthen its market position and 
establish a platform for sustained 
profitable growth. The Group’s Order Book 
continued to grow with the majority of new 
orders based on hosted solutions over 
three years or more. 
Towards the end of the period a number 
of sales did not close as expected, 
resulting in lower than expected revenues. 
Our emphasis continues to be the 
improvement and development of our 
sales and marketing capability in the 
current year. As previously disclosed, 
FY2015 benefited from one-off sales 
totalling approximately £1.1m. Excluding 
these contracts, underlying sales growth 
was approximately 17% over the last 12 
months. Our focus on cost control during 
the year is reflected in a small profit before 
tax for the year compared to the small 
loss originally expected at the start of the 
financial year.
Demand for back office workforce 
optimisation solutions continues to grow 
in line with the global trend of businesses 
looking to improve customer service, 
operational efficiency, cost control and 
risk management. The Group’s products 
deliver guaranteed benefits for its 
customers in each of these key areas 
and we have an enviable track record of 
successful implementations and customer 
retention. This market demand, together 
with our ability to develop and deliver 
products which meet our customers’ 
needs, provides a firm foundation for  
the Group. 
The investments we have made this year 
have further strengthened our market 
position. We invested significantly in the 
Group’s product set, culminating in the 
launch in September 2015 of eg mobile
™
 
and eg forecasting
™
. Both new products 
were well received and have opened up 
a number of new sales opportunities with 
new and existing clients. 
Aspect Software Inc 
(“Aspect”)
In August 2015, Bob Krakauer was 
appointed Non-Executive Director, 
replacing Spence Mallder on the Board as 
a representative of Aspect.
On 9 March 2016, Aspect submitted a 
petition for bankruptcy protection in the 
U.S. Bankruptcy court for the District of 
Delaware in Wilmington (along with four 
related entities). Our current assessment 
is that there will be no impact on earnings 
for the Group.
As set out in our announcement on 
10 March 2016, we will continue to 
monitor developments and make further 
announcements as appropriate.
Capital Reduction & Articles
Taking into account feedback from 
investors and our prospects for future 
profitability, the Board will be seeking 
approval for a proposed reduction in 
capital at the AGM on 17 May 2016. 
We will also be seeking approval for an 
update to our Articles of Association in 
line with the Companies Act 2006.
Current Trading & Outlook
FY2016 has been a year where we have 
made solid progress with growing our 
order book and significantly enhancing 
our product suite, laying the foundations 
for sustainable, long-term profit growth. 
The progress we have made in increasing 
recurring revenues continues in line with 
our objective of significantly improving the 
visibility and quality of earnings.
Duncan McIntyre 
Chairman
22 March 2016
