 08 Egg plc Annual Report 2003
I am pleased to report that Egg has achieved substantial
growth once again, during a challenging year. The UK
business delivered exceptionally good results in an
increasingly competitive marketplace, but our one year old
French business has had a difficult and disappointing year.
Consequently, this is reflected in a group pre-tax loss of
£34 million.
The UK business has performed impressively with Egg 
UK operating profit more than doubling and customer
acquisition volumes reaching record levels. Both these
results were delivered against the backdrop of increasing
competition and demonstrate the ability of our brand 
and marketing effort to differentiate the Egg offering and
target the right people to whom our proposition appeals.
This was achieved at an extremely low marketing
acquisition cost of £33 per credit card, including brand
spend, some 40% of the acquisition cost of our direct
competitors and 7 4% of the industry average. We now
have a proven track record of delivering both sustained
profitability and rapid growth.
Within unsecured lending in the UK we have continued to
grow our market share of credit card balances to almost
6% while at the same time successfully cross selling
record volumes of personal loans. Net lending growth 
was an impressive £1.5 billion, an increase of 60% on
2002 levels, taking total balances to almost £5 billion. 
At £1.8 billion, personal loan balances are an increasingly
significant part of our business.
Chief Executive’s review
Paul Gratton
The Egg UK operating profit of £73 million demonstrates
the benefits of Egg’s business model continuing to
emerge. Revenues grew almost 30% on the back of
record sales volumes and increases in lending balances
while expenses were held relatively flat. This led to our
cost-income ratio improving to 51%, well on track to
exceed our stated target of 40% by end 2005. Credit
quality remains strong with the card portfolio continuing 
to have significantly lower arrears rates than the industry
average. We are particularly pleased that this strong profit
performance has been achieved in a year where we
continued to invest heavily in growing the customer base
and developing our business.
In France progress in the first quarter was slow and the
business initially suffered from high acquisition costs 
and low customer conversion rates. We responded by
appointing a new Chief Executive and senior executive
team, who together have introduced a range of
improvements that saw a turnaround in the key operating
metrics through the second and third quarters. The new
management team also developed a new long-term
financial plan to create a self-sustaining, scale business 
in France. As we announced in October, execution of 
this plan will take longer and requires a greater level of
investment than Egg is prepared to undertake on a
standalone basis. The search for a strategic partner 
Strong UK profit 09 Egg plc Annual Report 2003
has since been superseded by Prudential considering
proposals for its shareholding in Egg. In the meantime 
we are managing discretionary expenditure tightly in 
Egg France as we await the conclusion of this process.
With the exception of France it is very much business 
as usual at Egg as we build on our impressive UK results 
in 2003.
We are pleased at the ongoing improvements we 
have made in customer service. We monitor customer
satisfaction regularly throughout the year, and are 
delighted to report that during 2003 our level of
complaints decreased by over 50%. Equally pleasing is
the fact that customer satisfaction levels have increased 
by 10% across all products measured. This will remain a
key priority for us.
I would like to thank all Egg People for their diligence,
dedication and good humour during what has been a
challenging and productive year. Through their continued
efforts, various teams and individuals, as well as Egg 
as a whole, have been recognised for their outstanding
achievements by winning prestigious awards, particularly 
in technology, product innovation, communications 
and marketing. 
Paul Gratton
and growth
