  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc | Annual Report 2016  9
1.0 Strategic Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Operations
I am delighted to report that 2016 has been a year 
of positive transformation which has seen a strong 
performance across the Group which exceeded 
market forecasts which themselves had been 
upgraded throughout the year. We have seen a 
considerable improvement in revenue growth 
and profitability, with cash generation strong 
over the year, which coupled with a successful 
share placing in June, 2016 allowed us to move 
into a net cash position and significantly reduce 
our borrowings.
This turnaround has been achieved with quite 
remarkable speed, and all employees can be very 
proud of these results. Our plans for 2017 are 
equally as ambitious.
Structural change
Actions taken in 2016 have built upon those 
started in 2015 and before. Our small remaining 
presence in Ireland has ended and the biomarker 
business line has been sold to a third party for 
a nominal sum. The residual staff who had been 
located in the former Quotient facility in Walton-
on-Thames, UK, have also left the Group, and the 
building handed back to the landlords. The STI 
facility in Sanford, Florida was closed in Q3, and 
all activities transferred to our main US facility 
in Boerne, Texas. A small number of staff have 
transferred or are continuing to operate from 
home offices. As part of this transfer we have 
taken the opportunity to review and rationalise 
the STI product range. Finally, the DiaSpect 
facility in Sailauf, Germany has been closed down. 
Administrative, sales, and finance functions are 
now integrated into our main European factory 
in Barleben, Germany. The manufacturing 
operations have been transferred to DiaSpect’s 
long term third party sub-contractor, which has 
also taken occupancy of that part of the Sailauf 
facility they did not already occupy. We have 
therefore now concentrated operations on eight 
sites, a reduction of four. We are continuing to 
review operations to minimise costs and maximise 
efficiency.
As a result of the structural changes, the number 
of employees has reduced from a peak of 403 in 
early 2015 to 299 by December 2016. Regrettably 
much of this reduction has had to be achieved 
through compulsory redundancy, and we offer 
former employees our best wishes for the future.
Point of Care
Our point-of-care business has seen a very 
successful year. EKF’s business model is to sell 
analysers into the market and then benefit from 
the ongoing revenue stream generated by sales 
of the dedicated consumables. Over the last four 
years we have sold almost 70,000 analysers for 
use worldwide, and in 2016 we supplied almost 
70m tests for use on these, an increase of 9.8% 
over the previous year. 
i. Hematology
Sales of Hematology products have increased 
by 59% to £11.70m (2015: £7.37m), with revenues 
benefiting from the return of US HemoPoint H2 
sales to EKF control from Alere in June 2016. This 
has led to improved margin and sales, with US 
sales of HemoPoint H2 (sold as Hemo Control in 
the rest of the world) up 101% year-on-year. Sales 
of DiaSpect Tm are up 53%. 
ii. Diabetes Care
In Diabetes, revenues were up by 58% year-on-
year to £10.20m (2015: £6.46m), with a particularly 
successful year for Biosen (up 79% year-on-year) 
and Quo-Test (up 62%). We have continued to 
supply Quo-Test products to Saudi Arabia under 
the tender won in 2015, and have been awarded a 
follow up contract for 2016-17. Registration issues 
which had caused Biosen sales to China to pause 
in 2015 have now been solved, which is reflected 
in the rise in overall unit sales. Sales of STAT-Site 
M β-HB rose by 143% over the previous year.
iii. Maternal & Women’s Health
Revenues from our products that address aspects 
of maternal and women’s health increased by 17% 
to £2.88m (2015: £2.46m). This has been driven 
by an improvement in sales of our Lactate Scout+ 
product line which are up by 31%, and pregnancy 
tests sales have increased by 10%.
Central Laboratory
Our Central laboratory sales show an overall 
improvement of 39% on the previous year to 
£12.05m (2015: £8.70m), and have continued to 
be driven by our β-HB Liquicolor reagent product. 
β-HB sales were up by 76% and we have continued 
to sign up additional hospitals in the US, resulting 
in sales doubling since 2012. We have had some 
success with our Altair 240 analyser product and 
are continuing to sign up distributors especially 
in Asia and the Middle East. As a result, Clinical 
Chemistry sales, which included our first Altair 
240 sales were up 19%. Sales of our enzymes rose 
by 26% compared to last year. Our efforts in this 
segment are concentrating on building markets 
while continuing to increase penetration of our 
β-HB product.
New products
The new building at Barleben, Germany 
commenced in 2015 has now been completed 
and operations are beginning to move in. The 
building will house a number of new and updated 
production lines where we have determined that 
highly targeted capital expenditure can improve 
efficiency and capacity.
We took a conscious decision in early 2016 to 
concentrate on product development plus the 
development of technologies already owned by 
EKF. Not surprisingly this has meant that there 
has been relatively little movement in developing 
new products, with the majority of effort being 
expended on improving the quality of existing 
products. However our connectivity solutions for 
point-of-care instruments have been showcased  10 Annual Report 2016  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc
1.0 Strategic Review
at distributor shows such as Medica. With cash 
flow much improved we are focussing on the 
development of our sTNFR biomarker (early 
detection of end stage renal disease in diabetic 
patients), SensPoint (maternity care) and 
the redevelopment of our Lactate Scout for 
ambulatory care (early indication of Sepsis).
Outlook
The actions taken to turn around the Group in 
2016 have had rapid and significant positive 
effects. We now have a stable platform for further 
growth based on driving the existing business 
and continuing to reduce cost.
Julian Baines 
Chief Executive Officer 
20 March 2017
