 8 Annual Report 2016  |  EKF Diagnostics Holdings plc
1.0 Strategic Review
Chairman’s Statement
A year ago I stated that the Board intended 
to rebuild shareholder value by stabilising 
the business, growing it organically, and 
implementing further reductions in the cost base. 
The very significant progress that has been made 
so far towards fulfilling these aims is shown in 
these results.
Strategy and restructuring
Following the divestment of Selah Genomics Inc. 
in December 2015 and the mothballing of the 
UK molecular diagnostics business, the Group’s 
activities are focused on point-of-care and the 
related central laboratory reagents business, and 
it remains our intention to concentrate on these. 
Efforts to reduce cost and simplify the business 
have been and are continuing. The operations 
of DiaSpect in Sailauf have been closed and 
integrated into our main European manufacturing 
site in Barleben, Germany. In addition the STI 
site in Sanford, Florida, has been shut down 
and manufacturing and sales brought into our 
main USA site in Boerne, Texas. As a result, staff 
numbers have reduced to 299 at year end, over 
100 lower than its peak. 
The reduction in staff has resulted in large part in 
the achievement of cost savings in excess of the 
£6.7m target in 2016. These savings are expected 
to make a continuing impact in 2017.
Despite the changes resulting from restructuring, 
revenue is sharply up, with improvements coming 
across the board. In turn this has led to an 
improvement in earnings and to significant cash 
generation from operations, which, added to the 
proceeds from a share issue in June, has allowed 
the Group to move to having net cash as at 31 
December 2016.
Additional update for Shareholders
On 20 March 2017 we announced that the Directors 
are currently evaluating plans under which they 
would split the Company into two separate 
companies based on the business divisions, 
namely Point of Care and Lab Diagnostics. Whilst 
both these business divisions are valuable in their 
own right, the Directors consider that separating 
the companies out represents a better route for 
shareholders and one under which they are more 
likely to achieve a fair reflection of the value of 
each separate business.
We are sympathetic to individual investors’ 
requirements and therefore in order to provide 
those shareholders that do not wish to wait for the 
completion of the restructuring and subsequent 
potential sale of the two businesses with an exit, 
the Company is evaluating the possibility of a 
share buyback offer to shareholders. This share 
buyback offer would, if completed, be prior to the 
commencement of the separation and would be 
at a price of 21.5p per share.
Results overview
Please refer to the Chief Executive’s statement 
which contains a review of the year and the 
Finance Director’s Review which provides an 
overview of the financial performance.
Board
Ron Zwanziger, Lurene Joseph, and David Evans 
left the Board during the year, and Carl Contadini 
and I both joined. Carl has worked with me for 
many years and is an expert at cost control 
and containment. The Non-Executive Directors 
waived their fees during the year.
Outlook
Much has been done very quickly to turn the 
Group around, however work continues to simplify 
the business to allow the management team to 
concentrate on making it more cost efficient so 
that we can service our growing customer base 
and build for the future. I am confident that 
shareholders will see the continuing benefits of 
this in 2017, and we are currently trading in line 
with management’s expectations.
Christopher Mills 
Non-Executive Chairman 
20 March 2017
