 Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
6
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other information
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REPORT
George Maxwell  
Chief Executive Officer
The prospects for Eland have 
never been more exciting.  
Eland’s value will be delivered 
from ongoing investment in our 
drilling programme.
Despite the enforced closure of the Forcados terminal 
in February, Eland ended 2016 on a highly positive 
note and has since, through Elcrest, reached record 
production levels from OML 40 onshore Nigeria. The 
business model has been validated with the result of 
two separate workover wells which boosted gross 
production from c3,000 bopd in late 2015 to 8,500 
bopd during shipping and current levels of 11,500 bopd. 
Furthermore, two additional near term workovers are 
planned on OML 40, production could potentially more 
than double again during 2017 subject to sustained 
production and capital availability. While the outlook on 
our opportunities look very promising, 2016 has been 
a very difficult year. Low oil prices combined with the 
production shutdown for over 10 months, resulted in a 
variety of measures being put in place to reduce cash 
expenditures and closely manage our working capital 
situation. This was a very ‘hands on’ approach by the 
management of Eland and Elcrest. With production 
now re-started our working capital management 
continues as crude oil receipts continue to build.
Opuama-1 production restart and Forcados 
Following a highly successful and low cost workover 
of Opuama-1 in late 2015, gross production from the 
field increased by more than 50% to 4,500 bopd, and 
remained at these higher levels heading into 2016. It 
was therefore frustrating for Eland and its shareholders 
when the Forcados terminal, the primary destination 
for its crude, had a pipeline sabotaged by militants 
in February. The resulting closure and force majeure 
remained in place for the rest of the year, despite a brief 
reopening in November. 
Opuama-3 workover and production test
If a single well could be shown to prove that the well 
re-entry strategy works, then it would be the Opuama-3 
workover. The $2 million workover, which was prognosed 
to deliver 2,000 to 4,000 bopd from the D1000 and 
D2000 reservoir intervals, was completed in April. The 
workover produced oil at rates of more than 10,500 
bopd during a short-term test, vastly outperforming 
initial expectations. Since coming onstream in early 2017, 
stabilised rates of around 8,500 bopd from Opuama-3 
alone have been achieved.
Equity raise to bolster operations 
With the lack of cash flow as a result of the Forcados 
terminal being shut in, and a lack of clarity on when 
it might reopen, the decision was made by Eland to 
bolster the balance sheet via an equity raise in April 
2016. The Company felt it was important to have the 
funding in place to provide funding initially designated 
for near term Gbetiokun 1 workover, and subsequently 
utilised in part to develop a supplementary export 
route for OML 40 production, especially after such a 
positive result on Opuama-3. The accelerated book-
build was very successful, raising $18.5 million gross in 
an oversubscribed placing.  
Oil price fluctuations in 2016
The oil price experienced significant volatility during 
2016, declining to a 10-year low of $27 per barrel in 
February before a sustained recovery throughout 
the remainder of the year saw it more than double. 
Volatility has reduced in the first few months of 2017 
with a relatively stable Brent price within the $50 to 
$55 per barrel range. 
Planning and contracting for tankering and 
engineering of tie in point
Throughout the summer work continued on two 
supplementary and independent export routes from 
OML 40 to diversify crude deliveries. Barging proposals 
were reviewed with options for logistics, storage and 
offtake all finalised. Preparation for the installation of a 
dedicated 6 km pipeline extension directly into a nearby 
terminal also continued. A tie-in point into the OML 40 
export line for barging operations and Gbetiokun crude 
injection point was also completed. Barging of OML 40 
crude commenced in late January 2017. Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
7
The planning required to contract the barging solution 
included both the logistical and engineering solutions 
required to facilitate such a complex operation. Late 
in 2016 when it became clear that Forcados terminal 
would remain unavailable to Elcrest, the planning work 
completed earlier in the year allowed an acceleration 
of the execution phase. Contracting on Tankers and 
off take agreements were completed within six weeks 
which linked well with the completion of engineering 
works on the Benin river.
The operation, and in particular, the aspects under 
Elcrest control have performed extremely well, with 
limited downtime or interruption. However, the FPSO 
system has suffered some difficulties and downtime 
associated with the discharge of crude oil, and 
approximately $8 million of receivables are pending 
subject to technical resolution. The Group has managed 
this delay by agreeing the deferral of a number of 
creditors, and linking their final settlement to the 
final discharge date. The shipping system is readily 
repeatable as and when required, with a review of the 
ultimate point of crude oil discharge being a key focus 
of any future operation. Many opportunities exist in 
OML 40 for accelerated production from stranded 
fields through shipping operations.
CPR update commissioned and trebles reserves
In early 2017 we commissioned a Competent Person’s 
Report (CPR) on the Opuama-1, Opuama-3, Opuama-7 
and Gbetiokun-1 wells. This was done with a view to 
confirming our internal view that these reserves were 
better than previously anticipated. In the event we were 
proved correct as the CPR returned with a trebling of 
its estimate of recoverable reserves from these four 
wells alone. This is highly encouraging and an extremely 
positive indication of the potential upside within the 
rest of OML 40. 
Planning Opuama-7 rig access and workover operations
Looking to 2017 plans, Eland is currently preparing for 
the next workover on the Opuama field. Drilling of the 
well should commence early in the second half of the 
year, with a CPR forecasting initial production rates of 
6,000 bopd, therefore potentially boosting near term 
overall production from OML 40 to around 17,500 bopd.
The contract for the rig and services has been 
fully negotiated and mobilisation is expected to be 
approximately one month from final execution.
Ubima well access and road construction
The work late in 2016 to prepare the well site and site 
road access involved considerable community contractor 
involvement. This work will continue when the season 
allows to enable the continued development of the 
Ubima 1 EPS.
Elcrest and Shareholder Agreement
Although 2016 had the positives of a very successful 
workover of Ouama-3 and the launch of Elcrest’s 
secondary export route from OML 40, due to Elcrest 
only producing for one and a half months in the year, 
Elcrest still made a significant operating loss. Therefore, 
Eland, through our subsidiary Westport, now has an 
amount to recover from Elcrest of $380.2 million as at 
31 December 2016 in principal and interest and remains 
the sole secured creditor.
Subsequent to year end, Elcrest received a fee 
invoice from its local shareholder. This fee related 
to management charges agreed at the onset of the 
joint venture of $3m per annum for each shareholder, 
which by the end of 2016 totalled $17.25 million per 
shareholder. In prior periods Eland and Elcrest had 
understood that Elcrest’s local shareholder would not 
exercise its ability to levy these charges. Eland has now 
also formally invoiced the corresponding amounts. The 
payment profile for settlement of these liabilities is yet 
to be agreed, but it is intended this will be settled from 
free cash generated from increasing OML 40 production.
CSR projects
Elcrest has continued with a number of CSR projects 
during the year within OML 40. The construction of 
a walkway in Tsekelewu community to allow ease of 
movement between the community during the wet 
season and also the completion of a wharf and market 
area within the Opuama community, allowing market 
and fishing enterprises to flourish.
In both Opuama and Ubima we continued with our 
medical outreach program, ensuring free health check 
within the communities.
Outlook
The prospects for Eland have never been more exciting. 
The prolonged shut in to Forcados and the interruptions 
and delays experienced during the shipping period and 
transition back to Forcados have necessitated and will 
continue to require careful working capital management. 
Eland’s value will be delivered from ongoing investment 
in our drilling programme. Whilst 2017 will not be 
without its challenges and availability of capital will 
dictate the timing and schedule of our investment 
programme, the opportunity to more than double 
production once again at limited cost and without any 
exploration risk is very attractive.
George Maxwell 
Chief Executive Officer 
6 June 2017
