 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other information
Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
4
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
2016 was again a challenging year for the Nigerian oil 
industry despite the increase in the oil price. Eland 
responded very well to this situation by developing 
alternative export routes for the companies crude, 
whilst also delivering its best production test rates 
todate from OML 40. I believe that the Company is now 
in its strongest operational and production position 
to date to enable further growth and value for our 
shareholders to be delivered, but there are short term 
working capital challenges to be navigated which are 
discussed further in the CFO’s report. 
A difficult start to 2016 saw oil prices reaching 13-
year lows below $30 per barrel, although subsequent 
concerns about a supply squeeze led to a recovery 
throughout the remainder of the year. As a result, Brent 
ultimately doubled from its lows to end the year at $57 
per barrel. A perceived slowdown in US shale supplies 
because of the lack of investment and critically low rig 
utilisation rates was coupled with OPEC announcing 
a reduction in production quotas. Whilst this was 
reflected positively in commodity prices, it did little 
to reinvigorate investment in the oil and gas industry 
globally, including Nigeria. Ongoing sabotage activities 
within the country further impacted the oil industry and 
Eland was not immune to this, with the Shell-operated 
Forcados oil terminal being shut-in from February for 
the remainder of the year. 
Considering these circumstances, I believe that Eland 
had a very good year. In April, despite Forcados being 
shut-in, we performed a successful workover and a 
production test on our Opuama field in OML 40, with 
the Opuama-3 well producing in excess of 10,500 
barrels of oil per day, the highest rate ever recorded 
from a single well in OML 40. 
With the Forcados terminal being shut-in in February 
after militant activity in the Niger Delta, and a lack of 
clarity throughout last year as to when it may come 
back on-line, we took the decision to investigate 
alternative export routes for our crude rather than 
to simply evacuate it via pipeline. We commenced 
the development of a shipping option, involving 
transporting our oil to a secure offshore facility via the 
Benin River. I am extremely proud of this achievement 
and in particular the speed with which this project was 
completed. This is a testament both to the quality of 
our team and the relationship with our joint venture 
partner.
As a result of this very successful work, production 
from OML 40 recommenced in 2017 at initial rates 
of 10,000 barrels of oil per day, and is currently at a 
stabilised rate of 11,500 bopd, which compares to the 
rates of 4,400 barrels of oil per day that the field was 
producing at prior to being shut-in in February 2016. I 
believe this highlights the prodigious nature of these 
world-class reservoirs and gives me great confidence in 
the growth potential of our asset base. 
We continue into 2017 confident in the next phase 
of our growth with plans for additional field work 
which has the potential to more than double current 
production.
On the financing side of the business, Eland 
successfully completed an equity placing in April 2016 
to raise funds of $18.5 million at a price of 34 pence  
per share.
Russell Harvey
Chairman
We continue into 2017 confident 
in the next phase of our growth 
with plans for additional field 
work which has the potential 
to more than double current 
production. OUR BUSINESS 
MODEL
Expertise
Experienced management 
team with over 100 years of 
in-country experience
+ 
Track record
A team with a history of 
success in identifying and 
developing oil and gas assets
+ 
Local footprint
Operational senior 
management based in Nigeria 
with strong relationships and 
local knowledge
+ 
High quality 
assets
Significant development 
and exploration upside 
on OML 40 and OML 17 as 
well as attractive growth 
opportunities in Nigeria
= 
Maximised 
production
Eland Oil & Gas PLC  
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
5
During the year there were a number of changes to the board. In May, 
Louis Castro retired from his role as Chief Financial Officer, and was 
replaced by Olivier Serra. In July we also announced the appointment of 
Henry Obi to the Board as a Non-Executive Director representing Helios 
Natural Resources, a significant shareholder in Eland. Henry replaced 
Richard Norris who had been Helios’ representative on the Board since 
September 2014.
Eland has weathered the unforeseen events of 2016 and is now enjoying 
a period of stabilised oil prices and the recommencement of production 
at OML 40. The planned 2017 work program should provide a further 
step change in production growth with a low level of associated capital 
expenditure. I remain confident that both the team and asset base will 
deliver in 2017.
Russell Harvey 
Chairman
6 June 2017
“In April we performed a successful 
workover and production test on our 
Opuama field in OML 40, with the 
Opuama-3 well producing in excess  
of 10,500 barrels of oil per day, the  
highest rate ever recorded from a single 
well in OML 40.”
