 06 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s review
ACM has set out its strategic aim to become 
an integrated shipbroking service provider 
and the Board feels that with a presence 
in key international markets, combined with 
its diverse operations, the Group has all of 
the fundamentals in place to achieve this. 
The Board is pleased to have achieved these 
results in a challenging market and having made 
a significant investment in our new dry cargo 
division. Despite the current global market 
conditions that are restricting ACM’s profit, the 
Board remains confident that the Group has the 
right strategy to achieve considerable growth once 
market rates improve, given the high volumes 
of fixtures that are being successfully secured. 
Spot brokerage
The spot brokerage desk, ACM’s principal business, 
which involves the hire of a ship for a single 
voyage, had a strong year with revenue up 20% 
over last year. The number of spot fixtures has 
increased by 14% compared to last year, excluding 
small tankers and dry cargo. The Group’s small 
tanker broking desk also had a successful year. 
Although rates improved in the third quarter of 
last year, they have remained weak for much 
of the period.
The volume of fixtures continues to increase, 
and our network of global offices is working 
together well in a cyclical shipping market that 
has been at its lowest level for some time. Within 
the Group there is optimism that freight rates 
will improve and ACM is well positioned to benefit 
from any upward market movements.
Time charter
The time charter business involves the long-term 
hire of tankers. As previously reported, the forward 
order book for the time charter business has 
reduced as a result of market conditions. 
Consequently this division has declined by 21%, 
as it is difficult to conclude deals at current market 
rates. However , the market structure is now showing 
signs that there will be more volume of long-term 
business concluded, which will prompt more 
charterers to secure tonnage on time charter 
and ACM expects to benefit from this. 
Sale and purchase
The sale and purchase business, which involves 
the sale and purchase of new and older ships, 
declined slightly by 5% compared to the same 
period last year , as this business was also impacted 
by the weak market conditions. The Shanghai 
office is now starting to contribute to the Group, 
and as rates improve this division should return 
to positive growth. 
Dry cargo
The acquisition of Endeavour Shipbrokers, the 
Australian dry cargo business, on 24 June 2010 
has successfully diversified the Group’s earnings 
and enhanced its offering to its clients. This 
acquisition is highly complementary to the 
Group’s new dry cargo venture in UK and China 
which was launched during the year.
The dry cargo business is performing well although 
freight rates are weak. However, the global fleets 
of dry cargo vessels are being employed and 
absorbed in line with an increase in commodity 
transportation. ACM’s expansion into Australia, 
ACM Endeavour , has performed well with the volume 
of deals meeting management expectations, 
although earnings have been affected by the 
current market rates. International synergies 
throughout our network are now occurring with 
the London, Shanghai and Australian desks 
Johnny Plumbe Chief 	 Executive
The	Group	has	achieved	good	
volumes 	 of 	 fixtures 	 during 	 the 	 period, 	
in particular a 14% increase in the 
number 	 of 	 spot 	 fixtures 	 over 	 last 	 year
Summary
	 	 The	number	of	spot	fixtures	has	
increased	by	14%
	 	 Small	tanker	broking	desk	had	
a	successful	year
	 	 New	dry	cargo	division	making	
good	progress	
	 	 Singapore	office	performing	
particularly	well	
	 	 Profit	growth	constrained	by	weak	
freight rates 07 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Year in review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Notice of AGM
starting to collaborate and this approach will be 
further strengthened with the planned opening 
of the Singapore desk in autumn 2011.
Gas/LPG
ACM is pleased with the small London-based 
broking team that the Group has set up for gas/
LPG shipbroking. This is an interesting and 
expanding area of shipping as worldwide gas 
consumption is forecast for significant growth 
in the future. ACM has ambitions for further 
expansion into gas shipbroking.
Overseas operations
One of ACM’s core strengths is the Group’s 
international presence, as it can offer its clients 
excellent local knowledge in the key regions for 
the sector, supported by global infrastructure. 
ACM’s global expansion continues with the 
Australian venture, which is integrating 
successfully into the Group, and is starting 
to work effectively with our dry cargo desks 
in London and China. Our Singapore business 
is performing particularly well following the 
Group’s investment in this region. The Group’s 
offices in India and China show considerable 
promise although expansion in these areas is 
being undertaken with caution given the 
complexities of the local markets. All of our 
international offices work closely together and 
are backed by a strong research team so as to 
provide ACM’s clients with a first class service.
Financial derivatives
The Group’s joint venture with GFI Group, Inc. (GFI) 
to conduct derivative brokerage continues to 
make steady progress and is achieving good 
volumes; however, this business is also closely 
related to freight rates, and has therefore been 
affected by the weakness in the market. This joint 
venture desk with GFI concludes some 40% of 
the world’s tanker freight derivative market and 
has proved to be of great benefit to the physical 
tanker broking desk. The Board believes that 
this business is a valuable addition to ACM’s 
offering and it continues to add value to the Group. 
The market
The strong global demand for oil continues to 
grow, and with a forecast of 1.3 million barrels 
per day growth in 2011, followed by an average 
of 1.2 million barrels per day growth over the 
subsequent five years (Source: IEA). This compares 
favourably with the average growth seen between 
2004 and 2008 of 0.8 million barrels per day. 
Comparing its outlook for oil consumption, 
local production and new refinery additions, 
the IEA has identified significant growth in 
Chinese and other non-OECD Asian demand 
for Middle Eastern and West African crude oil, 
comfortably offsetting falls it expects to see in 
OECD Asian and US imports from both regions 
and adding significantly to tanker employment. 
Japanese oil import demand has been revised 
upward since its earthquake as power-generation 
and reconstruction-related boost demand from 
both crude oil and refined products.
The Group anticipates that the majority of the 
ships over 20 years old will be prompted to exit 
the spot market over the coming five years as a 
result of the significant restrictions to trade, as 
oil majors continue to raise quality standards. 
This will be offset by the delivery of new tankers. 
ACM expects that fleet growth expectations will 
be revised downward over coming months as 
the industry comes to terms with a much slower 
pace of newbuilding deliveries. 
While the dry cargo fleet is going through a 
phase of growth there is also large expansion 
in the commodity markets especially in Australia, 
Brazil, Africa and Canada which will add demand 
to the market and increase the volume of dry 
broking business. 
Outlook
Freight rates have been at a historical low; 
however, ACM has been well positioned and 
has gained market share both organically and 
through diversification. In challenging market 
conditions, ACM has made good progress 
during the period, increasing volume of fixtures 
by 14% and strengthening its international 
presence. ACM is expanding and recruiting in 
each of its global offices and moving premises 
in London in August 2011 in order to support 
that expansion. 
The Board is confident that we currently have 
the right structure and team in place and we 
continue to look for opportunities to expand 
our global shipbroking network further. Our 
progressive dividend policy reflects the Board’s 
confidence for the future and ACM remains 
optimistic that the Group is well placed for both 
medium and longer-term growth. 
Johnny Plumbe
Chief	Executive
22 July 2011
Diversifying into dry cargo
By diversifying the Group’s 
earnings and moving into dry 
cargo, ACM is building on the 
global infrastructure that it has 
established since its inception, 
and starting to use its shipbroking 
expertise to work with all sizes of 
bulk dry cargo ships.
