 04 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Chairman’s statement
Peter Sechiari Chairman
The 	 Board 	 is 	 pleased 	 to 	 report	
another 	 period 	 of 	 solid 	 results,	
despite	challenging	market	conditions
During the period, ACM has continued to 
make strong progress, and the Board is 
pleased to report the results that have been 
achieved against a backdrop of historically 
weak freight rates. The Group’s global 
infrastructure, which has been built over 
recent years, is now well positioned to take 
advantage of existing markets as well as 
potential increases in the volume of 
commodity shipping. 
Results
The results for the year to 31 March 2011 are 
broadly in line with expectations and the Group 
is pleased to report revenue of US$45.7 million 
(2010: US$41.1 million), while profit before 
amortisation and taxation and adjusted for minority 
interest was £6.5 million (2010: £6.6 million). 
Margins have reduced mainly due to our 
investment into a new global dry cargo 
broking division.
The Group’s cash position remains strong,  
with £5.0 million and no debt (2010: £4.3 million).
Dividend
In line with the Board’s confidence in the 
longer-term prospects for the Group, the 
progressive dividend strategy has been 
maintained and the Directors are recommending 
a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2011 
of 7.0 pence, making a total of 10.0 pence per 
share for the year (2010: 9.5 pence per share), 
which is covered two and a half times by adjusted 
earnings. The final dividend is payable on 
7 October 2011 to shareholders on the register 
as at 9 September 2011. 
Strategy
Over recent years the Board has worked hard 
to put in place the foundations for future growth, 
and the Group’s strategy is very much on track. 
With divisions performing well across our 
international offices, the Board believes that the 
Group has the right structure in place to achieve 
ACM’s stated strategy of building a successful 
global integrated shipbroking business.
The Group’s dry cargo shipbroking business, 
which was acquired in June 2010, is now 
integrating successfully. The Board is confident 
that this business will prove a good investment 
for future growth. 
The Group will be moving to new premises 
in London in August 2011, which will provide 
additional space for further expansion. 
Summary
	 	 Results 	 broadly 	 in 	 line 	 with 	 expectations
 	 	 W ell	positioned	to	take	advantage	
of	existing	markets
	 	 Final	dividend	of	7.0	pence,	making	
10.0	pence	for	the	year
	 	 T otal	dividend	covered	two	and	a	half	
times	by	earnings
		 The 	 medium 	 and 	 longer -term 	 prospects	
remain strong 05 ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011
Year in review
Corporate governance
Financial statements
Notice of AGM
Employees
The Board would like to thank all of our employees 
for their dedication and contribution to another 
year of significant achievement. ACM remains 
committed to recruiting, retaining and developing 
the best people and our committed and talented 
employees will play a critical role in the Group’s 
success going forward.
Prospects
ACM continues to be well placed to take 
advantage of the commodity markets and has 
diversified into dry cargo shipbroking which we 
expect will continue to grow and enhance our 
future earnings. The Group is also focused on 
continuing to build on its robust position in 
ACM’s core business of tanker broking.
Whilst the current trading environment remains 
challenging, the medium and longer-term 
prospects for the Group remain strong. 
Peter Sechiari
Chairman
22 July 2011
Expansion
The Board is confident that we 
currently have the right structure 
and teams in place and we 
continue to look for opportunities 
to expand our global shipbroking 
network further.
ACM’s 	 strategy 	 is	
robust 	 and 	 the 	 Group	
continues to gain 
market share across 
its 	 divisions
