 Elektron Technology plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Maximising 
returns whilst 
fostering growth
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
with John Wilson
Business strategy and performance
This report outlines the strategies being followed in each of the Group’s 
business segments. Detailed commentary on our financial performance 
is contained in the financial review set out on pages 19 to 21.
Summaries of the strategies for individual brands are set out below. 
We categorise markets according to growth characteristics. We do not 
detail this categorisation by brand and product for commercial reasons.
Sales in markets categorised as:
2016
£m
2015
£m % change
High growth 3.2 2.3 39%
Static/lower growth 29.2 29.3 —
Declining 10.9 12.8 (15)%
Total 43.3 44.4 (2)%
Connectivity sales: £25.8m (2015: £25.8m), underlying operating 
profit: £3.8m (2015: £2.9m), gross capitalised development costs 
to date: £1.1m (2015: £1.0m)
Connectivity comprises two complementary product families: Bulgin 
and Arcolectric. 
Arcolectric manufactures switches and indicator lights for white 
goods and light industry markets and operates in a highly commoditised, 
cost sensitive product environment with significant low cost competitor 
activity. Our strategy in this segment is to foster key original equipment 
manufacturer relationships with a view to increasing our average selling 
price through offering value added solutions. Operating in a declining 
market, with limited ability to differentiate standard products, continues 
to result in eroding revenues in all three geographical regions (APAC, EMEA 
and the Americas), although this is beginning to show signs of plateauing.
Conversely, Bulgin, a manufacturer of niche, ruggedised products 
used in harsh environments where a high level of ingress protection (IP) 
is required, operates in a low growth, more cost-insensitive market. 
Market launches of substantial newly developed products, combined 
with iterative product development and bespoke solutions, continued 
Bulgin’s sustained year-on-year growth, mostly offsetting the revenue 
declines experienced by Arcolectric. During the year Bulgin expanded its 
Buccaneer® range of environmentally sealed power and data connectors 
with the introduction of the new Buccaneer 4000 Series. Building on the 
success of the Buccaneer 6000 and 7000 Series of quick-locking connectors, 
the 4000 Series provides the same twist-lock coupling and “fit and forget” 
connectivity in a more compact format, making it easier for product 
engineers to integrate into their system designs.
Four years ago we implemented a strategy to increase Bulgin revenues 
through closer working relationships with an optimised, global distribution 
network. Over the period, we reduced the number of distributors by almost 
75% (274 down to 75). As well as attracting increased mindshare from our 
channel partners, due to increasing sales levels, this has enabled a reduction 
in overhead as a result of a significantly reduced number of transactions 
and we have worked hard to drive efficiency through our manufacturing 
operation. A decision to implement a planned build of inventory of our 
most popular products has helped improve both production efficiency 
and service levels to our partners.
The net result for Connectivity is a further increase in operating profit 
before non-recurring or special items of over 31%, compared with the 
prior year, on static combined sales.
HIGHLIGHTS
 » 31% improvement in underlying 
Connectivity profits
 » Investment in growth areas increased
 » IMC losses narrowed and brand portfolio 
rationalised subsequent to year end 
Read more about our business model  
on pages 10 and 11
10
Read more about our KPIs  
on page 14
14
In October 2015 we successfully 
launched the Checkit work 
management system and we 
are currently developing major 
opportunities with a number 
of blue-chip organisations. ” Elektron Technology plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
Substantially all Bulgin sales are now through our global, regional and 
national channel partners. During the financial year, despite high levels 
of destocking in the distribution channel due to economic conditions, 
Bulgin sales grew in both EMEA and the Americas, the latter now accounting 
for over 24% of Bulgin sales.
IMC sales: £17.3m (2015: £18.4m), underlying operating loss: £0.4m 
(2015: £0.5m), gross capitalised development costs to date: £2.6m 
(2015: £2.3m)
The IMC segment contains a number of small businesses that are managed 
as a portfolio. These include established brands in low growth or declining 
markets and businesses with high growth potential. Although in aggregate 
the segment returned an operating loss, there was a wide divergence between 
individual businesses with most of the losses being made by Queensgate, 
which is investing heavily in new products, but turnover grew by 61% over 
the prior year.
During the year the portfolio consisted of the following:
 » Agar (distribution of microscopy consumables): flat sales and sold 
since the year end.
 » Agar Medical, formerly Qados (distribution of medical consumables): 
much of this business has been discontinued in view of its poor profitability. 
The remainder has been absorbed by other IMC businesses following 
the sale of Agar.
 » Carnation (power management for specialised vehicles): limited investment 
in a new generation of product. Steady turnover.
 » Digitron (temperature and pressure related instrumentation): 
slightly declining sales.
 » Elektron Technology Ophthalmic (screening products for the two leading 
causes of irreversible blindness): investment in sales channels to lay 
the foundations for a further substantial increase in sales.
 » Queensgate (nanopositioning systems): substantial investment in new 
products; substantial growth from a low base.
 » Sheen (instrumentation for the paint and allied industries): investment in 
value engineering, improving process and compliance systems; slight 
decline in sales.
 » Titman (router cutter manufacturer): investment in plant and machinery; 
slight decline in sales.
 » Wallace (instrumentation for rubber industry): investment in improving 
process and compliance systems; substantial decline in sales caused 
by industry conditions.
Checkit sales: £0.2m (2015: £0.2m), underlying operating loss: £2.2m 
(2015: £0.7m), gross capitalised development costs to date: 
£2.8m (2015: £1.3m)
Our investment in Checkit is aimed at building substantial recurring 
revenues over time by delivering a range of products that remove the 
inefficiencies and limitations represented by manual, paper-based 
processes in businesses. Our focus is on industries such as food, 
healthcare and facilities management where activities performed 
by large numbers of front-line staff are still frequently recorded using 
pen and paper. Checkit introduces smart automation and easy-to-use 
apps to these businesses. The results are reduced costs, improved service 
levels and reduced business risk.
Checkit represents a new breed of business application that uses cloud 
computing and Internet of Things technologies to provide a cost effective, 
easy-to-use and affordable solution as a service that is leading the 
development of this new market.
In October 2015 we launched Checkit Work Management – a replacement 
for checklists based on smart handheld devices. We have delayed the release 
of the second key part of the product – automated monitoring – to allow us to 
spend the first half of 2016 finalising its design and testing. This technology 
will provide a wireless sensor network to automate the collection and tracking 
of key operational data such as temperature.
Checkit is now live with 78 customers, and is developing major opportunities 
with a number of blue-chip organisations in the following applications:
 » food service and retail, to manage health and hygiene checks, quality 
and operational efficiency;
 » facilities management, to manage services delivery and SLA (service level 
agreement) reporting; and
 » health, to manage delivery of “hotel services” to patients.
Food hygiene is a key application for Checkit, with over 500,000 premises 
in the UK alone inspected for food safety. It is also increasingly important 
to customers – our recent research
1
 shows that the impact of being implicated 
in a food hygiene incident is catastrophic for the survival of any restaurant 
business, with 75% of consumers saying they would refuse to return under 
the current ownership. To support the development of our proposition in 
this area we have created a pioneering Primary Authority Partnership with 
Cambridge City Council, providing legally enforceable support for the use 
of Checkit that is applicable across the UK.
John Wilson
Chief Executive Officer
8 June 2016
1 Checkit research carried out online with 1,000 UK consumers by Toluna in H1 2016. Elektron Technology plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
MARKETS
Exciting prospects 
in growing markets
CONNECTIVITY – AGRICUL TURE
The industry/background
Technology improvements in farming are being driven by a 
need for increased production to meet the growing demand. 
Innovation in the mobile/IT and energy spaces has the potential 
to make a huge impact on the running of a farm. For example, 
smart power systems, precision agriculture tools, farm management 
software and affordable sensors are all within reach of even the 
smallest farmers today. 
There is potential in radio frequency technologies (RFID, NFC 
and Bluetooth), the Internet of Things, and the big data that 
comes along with it, as well as in clean technology advances 
from ambient energy, waste-to-energy and renewable sources. 
Current investment has seen the agtech sector exceed £3 billion 
of investment for 2015, compared to £1.6 billion for all of 2014.
The challenge
Our customer has developed a system which allows growers 
to remotely control all irrigation sets from a soil, weather and 
map-based perspective. The system software integrates with 
typical hardware infrastructures including mobile applications. 
The system is field installable by the farmer and was required 
to be robust, easy to install and reliable in harsh environments.
Our solution
The customer developed proprietary software to monitor 
and control all aspects of irrigation within their system. 
The in-field sensory network required our quick connect 
400 Series connectors with embedded EEPROM chip technology 
incorporated into overmould wire harnessing. The various 
“standardised” lengths of electronically identifiable cable 
assemblies would become standard parts for farmers to 
build and setup their own system. 
Bulgin’s 400 Series power connectors provide IP68-rated protection 
against harsh environments. It is the smallest connector in the 
Buccaneer family with cable diameter ranges from 3 to 7mm. 
Its secure sealing system is ideal for submersion in water 
or protection against dust. 
The result
Our customer is leading the way with this technology, 
with the complete system presented this year at the 
World Ag Expo on 9–11 February 2016 in California, USA. Elektron Technology plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
OPHTHALMIC – AGE RELATED 
MACULAR DEGENERATION 
The industry/background
The ageing population and a variety of other factors, including 
diet and lifestyle, mean that the number of people suffering 
from age related macular degeneration (AMD) in the next 
few years is predicted to increase. Although many risk factors 
need to be considered when ascertaining a person’s likelihood 
to develop AMD, there is considerable evidence that low 
macular pigment (MP) is one of the main risk factors for having 
the disease. For this reason, screening for low macular pigment 
is one of the best ways to identify patients at risk of age related 
macular degeneration. 
There is now a c.£300m market (10–15% CAGR) for 
supplements, of which the main ones are lutein and 
zeaxanthin based, and these are consumed to delay the 
progression of AMD by increasing macular pigment density 
as there is also emerging evidence that increasing MP can 
slow the development of AMD. 
The solution
Elektron has worked with a Korean customer, who 
supplies supplements, to obtain registration for its MPS II, 
macular pigment screener, in Korea. The MPS II will be 
used by the customer to monitor the efficacy of the customer’s 
supplements in increasing MPOD (macular pigment optical 
density) values. The customer will market the MPS and its 
supplements through pharmacies, health specialty stores 
and eye clinics, increasing awareness of eye health and 
promoting prevention of AMD and thus the need for 
costly intervention. 
QUEENSGATE – HARD DISK DRIVE STORAGE (HDD)
The industry/background
Whilst unit sales of hard discs have been in decline, 
demand for HDD storage has increased. Average HDD 
capacity was around 1TB in Q3 2014, but it jumped to 
roughly 1.3–1.4TB per drive in Q4 2015. The combination 
of increased capacity and pressure to reduce manufacturing 
cost by increasing throughput is a technical challenge 
which requires dynamic nanoscale positioning.
The solution
Queensgate instruments has provided nanopositioning 
stages to test over half the world’s hard discs for over 
15 years. In 2014 we started work with our customer 
on a next-generation controller. The goal was to replace 
the existing system and provide an upgrade route for 
the existing install base of stages (>1000 systems) 
and a platform for the next generation of testers. 
The next generation of testers requires positioning systems 
which can move and settle to atomic levels in just a few 
milliseconds. The first step was to produce a low noise 
controller and provide the live interface to our customers’ 
control system. Working closely with our customers we have 
improved the performance not only of its specific version 
of controller but for our full range of positioning controllers. 
2015 saw the first substantial order for our new controller, 
48 systems for installation in its factory in the Far East.
As 2016 progresses our challenge is to deliver the 
next-generation stage capable of picometre levels 
of precision. The new stage can achieve resolutions 
of half the diameter of a hydrogen atom and speeds 
of 1000 cycles per second. This development will allow 
the testing of the next-generation HDD storage with speed 
and precision and reduce manufacturing costs. In doing this 
Queensgate maintains its position as a technology leader.
