 Elektron Technology plc 4 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
with Keith Daley
Overview
The performance of the Group continues to show a marked improvement, 
demonstrating the successful implementation of the Group’s strategy, which 
is to prioritise investment in businesses that are capable of achieving significant 
growth over the medium term whilst ensuring that the cash flow from 
lower-growth established businesses is maximised. Historically the Group 
has struggled to show growth from its established businesses which operate 
in mature markets. Detailed commentary on our financial performance is 
contained in the financial review set out on pages 19 to 21.
Our stated objective last year and in the current year was to invest 
substantially all our cash flow into developing and marketing promising 
new products, particularly Checkit.
We conceive, design and market innovative engineered products and services 
for businesses that connect, monitor and control. We have a multi-skilled team 
of engineers and software and product line specialists based in Cambridge 
focused on the opportunities created by global trends in the following areas:
 » new waves of “aware” business applications: Checkit;
 » demand for ubiquitous power and data: Bulgin;
 » ophthalmic instrumentation targeted at conditions caused by ageing: 
Elektron Technology Ophthalmic; and
 » growth in high precision manufacturing: Queensgate.
In addition, Elektron owns a portfolio of seven brands that are being 
managed for cash flow. Several of these operate in static or declining 
markets necessitating close attention to costs and total value contribution 
to the Group.
Subsequent to year end we successfully completed the disposal of Agar 
for initial proceeds of £2.0m and potential deferred proceeds of £0.3m. 
Further details are contained in the announcement made to the AIM 
market of the London Stock Exchange on 23 May 2016.
Investing for 
the future
HIGHLIGHTS
 » Further improvement to overall 
Group performance
 » Checkit work management 
system launched
 » £2.0m raised from business disposals 
subsequent to the year end, leaving the 
Group in a net cash position 
Read more about our strategy 
on pages 10 to 13
10
Read more about our governance  
on pages 22 to 34
22 Elektron Technology plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Strategic report
The disposal recognises the value of this business to the Group; however, 
it will initially be earnings dilutive, although we will seek to reduce this dilution 
through strict cost management. The disposal simplifies the Group structure 
and will allow management to concentrate on the remaining higher margin 
businesses and those capable of substantial growth.
Also, subsequent to year end we learned that the appeal in the High Court 
against the judgement in our favour in relation to the Bridge derivative 
action has been dismissed. This case has been an enormous distraction 
and has diverted much management time that could have been devoted 
to the Group.
People 
The Group continued to hire experienced professionals, particularly 
for its growth businesses, during the year. At the same time it has been 
necessary to reduce staffing levels at those businesses that are not 
growing. Elektron values its people and recognises the need to look 
after them, especially at those times when the Group’s plans have meant 
disruption for some. The commitment of Elektron’s people throughout 
the world, in what remains a challenging environment internally and 
externally, has once again been remarkable and deserves recognition.
Outlook
The Group is currently performing in line with the Board’s expectations 
at lower sales levels than the comparable period for last year, which saw 
a number of atypical stocking orders from distributors in Connectivity as a 
result of the implementation of the final stage of the distributor consolidation 
strategy. As a result, the Board anticipates that the trading performance 
in the first half for the businesses, excluding Checkit, will be at a lower level 
to last year, notwithstanding an improved sales mix of higher margin product 
sales and further efficiency gains. As planned, the Group is increasing its 
investment in Checkit, with added spend in sales and marketing to promote 
the work management system and preparatory marketing of the automated 
monitoring system which is due for launch in the second half of the year, 
together with further investment in production and other support areas.
Keith Daley
Chairman
8 June 2016
The Group has prioritised 
investment in businesses 
that are capable of achieving 
significant growth over the 
medium term. ”
