 Empresaria Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
04
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Further year of progress
The Group has 
delivered another 
year of strong 
growth in profit and 
adjusted earnings 
per share
The Group has delivered another 
year of strong growth in profit  
and adjusted earnings per share. 
We have again demonstrated the 
strength of our multi-branded 
business model, with a strategy  
to be diversified by geography  
and sector and to develop leading 
brands with sector expertise.  
As we enter 2017, the Group 
continues to strengthen its 
position, as our focus on 
delivering against our strategy  
is reflected in our trading 
performance and resilience to 
uncertain market conditions.
 Revenue grew by 44%, primarily in the 
Technical & Industrial sector and from  
the investments made in 2016. Additionally,  
our business mix has changed following 
our decision in the last few years to  
reduce our exposure to low margin, high 
volume business in the UK Technical & 
Industrial sector
 Net fee income grew by 20% with profit 
before tax up 11% (23% on an adjusted 
basis). We are pleased to report fourteen 
consecutive quarters of year-on-year 
growth in net fee income
 Share of net fee income from Temporary 
recruitment is up to 60% (2015: 55%), 
continuing our focus to deliver a higher 
proportion of our income from contracting, 
which is generally more predictable than 
permanent recruitment
 A balanced and diversified spread of 
operations, with 68% of net fee income 
from outside the UK (2015: 63%). We 
generate 72% of our net fee income from 
the four largest staffing markets in the 
world (USA, Japan, UK and Germany)  
but also 28% from high growth markets 
including South East Asia, China, India  
and Australia
 We have invested in two sectors with 
exciting long-term growth prospects 
through our investments in Rishworth 
Aviation (Aviation sector) and ConSol 
Partners (IT, Digital & Design sector).  
These transactions completed three 
important investments in a 12-month 
period to October 2016, starting with 
Pharmaceutical Strategies in October 
2015, adding strong brands to the Group 
that have good growth potential in the 
years to come
Performance overview
Trading summary 
£m 2016 2015 % change
% change 
constant 
currency**
Revenue 270.4 187.3 44% 33%
Net fee income 59.0 49.2 20% 10%
Operating profit 8.5 7.6 12% 3%
Adjusted operating profit* 9.8 8.0 23% 11%
Profit before tax 7.9 7.1 11% 0%
Adjusted profit before tax* 9.2 7.5 23% 11%
* Adjusted to exclude amortisation of intangible assets, exceptional items, gain or loss on disposal of business and 
fair value charges on acquisition of non-controlling interests
** The constant currency movement is calculated by translating the 2015 results at the 2016 exchange rates Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
Empresaria Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
05
Group revenue of £270.4m was up 44% on 
the prior year of £187.3m, with a 50% growth 
in Temporary revenue and 7% growth in 
Permanent revenue. The growth in net fee 
income was 20%, with a reduced Temporary 
margin of 14.5% (2015: 16.7%). This is largely 
due to Rishworth Aviation having a lower 
margin than the rest of the Group at 6%, 
although this margin is earned over a long 
period as their temporary contracts typically 
last between three and five years. Also, in 
Germany there was a reduced margin from 
changes in the client mix and tariffs.
We continued to see an improvement in our 
conversion ratio, for the fifth year in a row, 
increasing from 16.3% to 16.6% with costs 
controlled despite further investments in the 
business. Operating profit grew 12% to £8.5m 
(2015: £7.6m), after a £0.7m increase in 
amortisation charges to £1.1m. With interest 
costs higher due to the debt taken on to help 
fund the investments, profit before tax growth 
was 11% to £7.9m (2015: £7.1m). On an 
adjusted basis, excluding amortisation, 
exceptional items and fair value charges on 
the acquisition of non-controlling interests, 
both operating profit and profit before tax 
grew 23% over the prior year.
Diluted earnings per share was unchanged at 
9.3p, again impacted by higher amortisation 
costs. On an adjusted basis it grew by 14%  
to 11.3p, delivering the fifth year in a row of 
double-digit growth.
The results this year have been impacted by 
currency movements, especially in the second 
half of the year. There was a small negative 
impact on the trading results but overall it has 
been positive for the Group, with a benefit from 
the translation of overseas profits into Sterling. 
On a constant currency basis revenue growth 
was 33%, net fee income was up 10% and 
adjusted profit before tax was up 11%. 
After seeing our total debt level reduce 
through 2014 and 2015, this year it increased 
to £10.5m (2015: £7.3m) as we took the 
decision to fund our investments in the year  
by using operating cash flows and new bank 
debt. We entered into a five-year revolving 
credit facility with HSBC Bank plc on 30 June 
2016. Interest rates are at low levels and are 
generally expected to remain low in the short 
term. This access to low cost debt with our 
long-term banking partner provided the best 
option to finance the investments in 2016. 
Our underlying philosophy remains to fund 
investments through equity or operating cash 
flows and to use debt for working capital 
funding. We continue to target a ‘debt to 
debtors’ ratio of no more than 25%. We 
measure this by excluding the cash held by 
Rishworth Aviation for pilot bonds, which 
ultimately is repayable to pilots at the end  
of their contracts, and at year end this ratio 
was 38% (2015: 23%) (see note 18 for further 
details). We expect to reduce this to 25% by 
the end of 2018, in line with our five-year plan.
Investments
We follow an Invest and Develop strategy,  
with a focus on investing in our existing 
brands, to help develop them to build 
long-term sustainable profit streams. To 
complement this, we also look for external 
investment opportunities to accelerate the 
growth of the Group and increase our 
presence in sectors where we feel we are 
under-represented.
In line with this strategy, in 2016 we made  
two significant investments. In July 2016 we 
invested in Rishworth Aviation, a pilot leasing 
staffing business operating from offices in 
New Zealand and Sweden, servicing clients 
throughout Asia Pacific, UK, Continental 
Europe and Africa. Rishworth provides pilots 
on a contracting basis and is already 
diversified geographically. Air travel is 
predicted to increase with high growth rates 
over the mid term, especially in the emerging 
markets in Asia and Africa where Rishworth 
has a good presence, and we see good 
prospects for the business over the medium 
and long term.
In October 2016 we invested in ConSol 
Partners, which operates in the IT staffing 
sector, servicing the high growth areas of 
Communications & Mobile, Cloud Technologies 
and the Digital supply chain. They have offices 
in the UK and USA, with the UK team primarily 
servicing clients across the UK and Continental 
Europe and the USA team focused on its 
domestic market. This investment strengthens 
the Group’s presence in an important sector, 
which is exhibiting strong growth trends and 
has excellent potential.
People
A key part of our business model is subsidiary 
management equity, aligning key management 
and Empresaria shareholder interests through 
brand management holding shares in their 
operating companies. This approach helps 
Empresaria to attract and retain the best people. 
At the end of the year we had 57 management 
shareholders, owning shares in different 
Group companies, up from 42 last year.
The Group has a dedicated Board and we  
are working hard to deliver growth, manage 
risk and improve our long-term financial 
performance, to generate higher shareholder 
returns. The Board is extremely experienced, 
with over 100 years of combined staffing 
industry experience.
The success of the Group comes from the 
hard work and commitment of our staff and 
the Board would like to thank every individual 
for their contribution to the business.
Governance
We have an established governance system in 
place to deliver on our vision. The Group follows 
high standards of corporate governance 
which we believe is a core requirement for a 
successful business operating a decentralised 
model across different regions and brands. 
There is a strong culture of financial control  
in the Group, with clear policies covering 
corporate conduct and governance. The 
Board develops the Group’s corporate 
governance arrangements with reference  
to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The values and culture of the Group, which 
are based on shared ownership and true 
operational autonomy for brand managers, 
are very important to the Board and key to  
our long-term growth prospects. We focus  
our investments towards people that share 
these values.
Dividend
The Board has reviewed the dividend in the 
light of the positive trading result and overall 
financial position. In line with our progressive 
dividend policy, for the year ended 
31 December 2016 the Board has proposed  
a final dividend of 1.15p per share (2015: 1.0p 
per share) which, if approved by shareholders 
at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid  
on 31 May 2017 to shareholders on the 
register on 5 May 2017.
Outlook
The Group’s strategy has delivered strong 
profit and adjusted earnings per share growth. 
We are confident that 2017 will be another 
year of profit growth with the Group benefiting 
from the potential within its existing brands 
and also the investments made in 2016 
contributing for a full year.
Our diversification by geography and sector 
helps to mitigate against difficult markets  
and as such we continue to see exciting 
opportunities to develop our Group, deliver 
increased profits and so enhance shareholder 
value. We look forward to the year ahead  
with confidence.
Tony Martin
Chairman
21 March 2017 Empresaria Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
06
MARKET DRIVERS
Market drivers shaping our industry
The size of a market illustrates the existing 
opportunity for staffing companies and the 
level of specialism in the market, with larger 
markets having a greater degree of specialism. 
The world economy is increasingly inter-
connected with businesses operating in global 
markets across international boundaries. The 
labour markets are reacting to this with people 
becoming more mobile and working outside 
their country of birth.
Staffing is driven by confidence, clients  
having the confidence to hire and invest and 
candidates having the confidence to move  
job. Confidence builds from good economic 
conditions, with growing economies creating 
new roles and candidates moving between 
existing roles. This dual impact means staffing 
markets are generally expected to grow  
at higher rates than country GDP.
Description
There is a growing divide between the 
qualifications and skills of workers and the 
evolving demands of the labour market.
The population size in emerging markets, and 
the trend for growth in the number of middle 
class and education levels, points to long-term 
growth prospects for their staffing markets as 
skills improve and more people require work.
There is also an ongoing trend for 
urbanisation, leading to a concentration  
of workers in the key economic centres, 
especially in emerging markets. The 
concentration of workers to the largest cities 
means these cities are the main drivers  
of economic growth.
Talent shortages exist in certain sectors; 
making it difficult for clients to find suitable 
staff, as there are insufficient workers with  
the necessary skills to meet demand. Clients 
have a number of routes to find candidates 
themselves, but where there is a scarcity of 
talent a staffing agency is invaluable to help 
with difficult to find candidates. There is an 
ageing population in developed economies 
which is further exacerbating this skills 
shortage. In some sectors there is an 
expected reduction in the number of low 
skilled jobs in the future due to advances in 
technology and automation making these jobs 
obsolete. Conversely, new roles are being 
created that did not exist a few years ago  
and there are very few people available with 
experience in these areas. 
external advisers act as the mechanism  
for providing staffing services to clients.  
This reduces the interaction, sometimes 
completely, between the end client  
and staffing agency.
Also, advances in technology are helping  
the development of new business models  
for the industry that could change the way 
businesses find and hire talent in the future. 
Some of these models are helpful to the 
staffing agency and some would look to 
bypass the agency. With the supply and 
demand for job markets becoming 
increasingly digitalised it can be difficult  
to sift through the sheer volume of data online 
to find the best match. This is where a staffing 
agency can provide added value by managing 
the process and analysing the data to find the 
ideal candidate.
The level of regulation in a market indicates 
how sophisticated it is and can be a key driver 
of market growth, with well-regulated markets 
encouraging temporary employment by 
protecting the rights of temporary workers and 
ensuring the right to equal pay and conditions. 
This is illustrated by the temporary penetration 
rate, which represents the number of agency 
workers in a country as a percentage of the 
total working population.
With the rise of new business models and 
growth of workers in the gig economy, 
regulations are being reviewed and amended 
to deal with taxation of income and profits.
In established staffing markets we see an 
increased use of Vendor Management 
Systems (‘VMS’) and Managed Service 
Providers (‘MSP’) where software solutions or 
The rise of social media makes it easier to 
communicate with potential workers across 
the world, providing them with instant access 
to information about clients, helping them to 
make more informed choices about their 
career options. 
In global markets outsourcing practices allow 
companies to control costs by using labour in 
lower cost jurisdictions for non-core tasks and to 
allow them to adjust the size of their workforce 
more easily. This is a trend seen in both the wider 
economy and the staffing industry. 
There is an ongoing trend towards flexible 
working practices. This is being driven by both 
clients wanting solutions for specific projects, 
to manage their costs and to improve 
productivity, and candidates wanting flexibility 
on when, where and how they work. This 
could be self-employment, part-time work or 
remote working, with project work enabling 
them to build up a wide portfolio of relevant 
experience. With the rise of the digital world, 
it is increasingly easy for candidates to work 
from anywhere in the world, removing 
geographic boundaries and time zone issues.
Macroeconomic 
drivers
 
Economic growth
 
Market size and 
specialism
 
Global markets
Demographics
 Talent shortages
 Population growth and 
the rise of the middle 
classes in emerging 
markets
 Urbanisation
Regulations and 
technology
 Market regulations
 Technology advances/
disruptive business 
models 
Evolving business 
practices
 
Flexible working practices
 
How candidates and 
clients interact
 
Outsourcing Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 
Empresaria Group plc  Annual Report & Accounts 2016
07
The German staffing market is less mature, 
having only de-regulated in 2004, but it is the 
largest economy in Europe and we expect 
their staffing market to grow to be the biggest 
in Europe over the medium term. With the 
exception of Japan and Australia, the Asian 
and Latin American staffing markets are 
relatively immature. There are low levels of 
temporary recruitment in South East Asia, but 
as the staffing market develops we expect this 
will start to grow and we are well positioned to 
benefit from this. These emerging markets 
have high growth prospects and as they 
develop and mature, this should lead to  
more specialisation.
Our brands operate across 19 countries so we 
are able to service client and candidate needs 
across the world. It is an important part of our 
strategic plan to identify opportunities for 
brands to cross-border their expertise and 
provide an international service.
We have a good spread of operations across 
both established and emerging staffing 
markets, with 72% of our net fee income 
derived from the UK, Germany, Japan and 
USA, which are the four largest staffing 
markets in the world. These markets provide  
a significant market opportunity for our brands 
to operate as niche market experts as well as 
being able to find experienced managers who 
have the skills and expertise to develop 
international brands.
Our opportunity
the previous generations. We have a good 
presence in the emerging markets with a 
particular focus on Asia Pacific, India and Latin 
America. As these markets develop we are 
positioned to grow with them.
In our markets we focus on the key economic 
centres, where we will see the best return  
on our investment. We do not have large 
networks of branch offices but focus where 
the workers and clients are concentrated,  
so having access to the greatest pool of 
vacancies and candidates.
Our brands are specialists, with knowledge 
and expertise of their niche markets. We 
believe this gives them an advantage when 
working in talent shortage markets as they 
know where to find candidates and how to 
communicate with them. Our primary focus  
is also on professional and specialist job roles 
where we believe the biggest talent shortages 
exist and where recruitment agencies are 
needed to help identify hard-to-find 
candidates. We also expect these roles to be 
less impacted from changes in technology.
There is a significant long-term growth 
potential in the emerging staffing markets due 
to the size of their populations, concentration 
of work in large cities and increasing levels of 
middle class with better education levels than 
We keep a close eye on new technologies  
and business models but we believe the key 
benefit of using a staffing agency is the 
expertise and knowledge they have of their 
market, so helping to source hard to find 
candidates and make the best possible match 
against job specifications. We encourage staff 
training and development across the Group 
and our multi-branded model develops niche 
sector expertise.
In established markets we have a high 
proportion of temporary recruitment and we 
closely monitor changes in regulations across 
our territories. We participate in consultation 
exercises with the regulators to help them 
understand the benefits and attraction to 
workers of temporary labour solutions. In 
those markets where there is no or little 
regulation of labour markets we focus on 
permanent recruitment, but with the expertise 
around the Group we are well placed to 
develop temporary recruitment solutions  
as these markets develop.
We have a fast-growing Offshore Recruitment 
Services business operating out of India and 
providing a range of recruitment services, 
primarily to clients in the USA and UK.
We have an overall bias towards temporary 
recruitment, offering workers the flexibility to 
work when they want or to help people get into 
the working environment. We expect this trend 
to increase and as markets get more regulated 
it removes any negative sentiment towards 
temporary working. We use social media 
across our brands to help communicate 
effectively with candidates.
