 EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 10
Chairman’s statement
“EnQuest has a very strong
team of people and has an
asset base with material 
growth potential.”
With the combined effect of increased 
production and acquisition related increases, 
EnQuest ended 2016 with a net 2P reserve 
base of 215 MMboe, ahead of the 203 
MMboe position at the end of 2015. This 
represents an average of 15% growth per 
annum since EnQuest’s formation seven years 
ago and a current reserve life of 17 years.
Industry context
EnQuest’s low cost capabilities have always 
been central to its business model. The 
macro environment since 2014 has acted 
as a catalyst for the North Sea oil and 
gas industry, galvanising companies into 
new, innovative and collaborative ways of 
operating. EnQuest has been at the forefront 
of these advances and initiatives and these 
more cost efficient operating methodologies 
are being institutionalised. These are lasting 
structural changes and are essential to the 
optimisation of hydrocarbon extraction from 
the North Sea and beyond. 
EnQuest supports the UK Government’s 
strategy for ‘Maximising Economic Recovery 
(‘MER’) for the UK’ and works closely with the 
Oil & Gas Authority (‘OGA’) to achieve this. In 
Jock Lennox
Chairman
Q4 2016, EnQuest brought the  
Scolty/Crathes development onstream; 
the only offshore oil Field Development 
Plan to have been approved in the UKCS in 
2015. Realisation of the potential from these 
smaller fields was enabled by cost efficiency, 
technology application and solid execution. 
EnQuest looks forward to adding further 
value to these MER (UK) initiatives through 
applying its differential capabilities to 
optimise the recovery of oil from the UKCS.
EnQuest welcomes the current programme 
to simplify and make more competitive 
the UK upstream tax regime, including 
reductions in the headline level of oil and 
gas tax rate, as set out in HMT’s ‘Driving 
Investment’ document. These are essential 
to creating certainty and to driving the still 
substantial investment needed in the UKCS. 
EnQuest believes that there is no longer 
a case for additional petroleum tax levies, 
such as the supplementary charge on UK 
upstream oil and gas activities. Such taxes 
mitigate against the realisation of MER (UK).
Reasons for the 2016 financial restructuring
The decline in oil prices since 2014 and the 
cost of the Alma/Galia development project 
have had a significant negative impact on 
the Group’s revenues, liquidity and available 
cash resources.
In response to the decline in oil prices, 
the Group set a number of strategic 
priorities, including delivering on execution, 
streamlining operations and strengthening 
the Group’s balance sheet. The Group 
focused on delivering a strong operational 
performance and also took a number of 
additional measures to address the impact of 
the decline in oil prices and the Group’s cash 
flow constraints. These included; negotiating 
the relaxation of certain financial covenants 
in the revolving credit facility (‘RCF’) and 
the retail notes; engaging in commodity 
hedging activities; divesting non-core 
international assets; reducing operating 
costs; reducing capital expenditure on the 
Kraken development; improving future cash 
flows through the development of Kraken 
and Scolty/Crathes; and deferring certain 
trade creditor obligations.
These measures were significant steps in 
maintaining the Group’s viability in the 
prevailing environment. However, a longer 
term solution was needed to strengthen 
the Group’s liquidity position, to reduce the 
burden of the Group’s cash debt service 
obligations and to enable the Group to 
continue pursuing its business strategy, 
particularly, bringing Kraken to first oil.
This led to the financial restructuring in 
Q4 2016, the key features of which were 
amendments to the RCF and to both the 
high yield and retail bonds, the renewal of 
surety bond facilities and a placing and open 
offer, to raise £82 million. On 21 November, 
the Board was pleased to announce that 
the restructuring had been successfully 
completed and was effective. 
EnQuest in 2016 
When I became Chairman of EnQuest in 
September 2016, I said that EnQuest’s priority 
was to deliver a business and a balance sheet 
which were robust in the prevailing oil price 
environment. In November 2016, EnQuest 
was pleased to announce the successful 
completion of a financial restructuring 
designed to deliver such a robust balance 
sheet. This was a comprehensive package of 
measures which, combined with an extensive 
and ongoing cost saving programme, put 
EnQuest’s business on a strong footing, well 
placed to deliver the Kraken development 
and to deliver value to shareholders in the 
medium term.
I also said that I was pleased to become 
Chairman of a company with an asset base 
which has material growth potential and with 
such a strong team of people. In 2016, our 
people again performed well in a challenging 
environment, with EnQuest delivering 
production up 9% on 2015, whilst at the same 
time significantly further reducing costs, 
with unit operating costs down 17% on the 
prior year.   EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016
11
Additions to 
reserves 2010 
to end 2016
Strong reserves growth over 
EnQuest’s rst seven years 
(MMboe) 
81 (68)
202 215
Net 2P reserves
start 2010
Production
2010 to 2016
Net 2P reserves 
at end 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The EnQuest Board
On 8 September 2016, EnQuest announced 
that after over six years in the role, Dr James 
(‘ Jim’) Buckee was retiring as Chairman of the 
Company and that I was to become EnQuest’s 
new Chairman, both with immediate effect. 
The Board and I reiterate our thanks to Jim for 
his important contribution to the Company 
since its inception. During his tenure, EnQuest 
grew reserves from 80.5 MMboe at the start, 
to 203 MMboe at the end of 2015. For my part, 
I was indeed pleased to become Chairman 
at such an important time in the Company’s 
development and I was warmly welcomed into 
my new role by EnQuest’s Chief Executive, 
Amjad Bseisu, and the rest of the Board.
On 15 December 2016, EnQuest announced 
the appointment of Carl Hughes as a  
Non-Executive Director and that Neil 
McCulloch was being appointed as Chief 
Operating Officer (‘COO’) and was to join 
the Board as an Executive Director at the 
2017 AGM. The appointment of Carl Hughes 
as a Non-Executive Director of the EnQuest 
Board was effective on 1 January 2017 . Carl 
was previously a vice chairman and senior 
audit partner at Deloitte, based in London; 
he was also global leader of Deloitte’s energy 
and resources practice. Prior to his promotion 
to COO, Neil was EnQuest’s President, 
North Sea. Neil’s previous responsibilities for 
EnQuest’s North Sea operations, expanded 
to include production from Kraken and 
EnQuest’s operations in Malaysia. I am 
delighted to welcome Carl to EnQuest 
and I look forward to working with him as a 
member of the Board. I am also pleased to 
congratulate Neil, both on his appointment to 
the role of COO and on being invited to join 
the Board.
In March 2016, as part of the planned rotation 
of the Board, Clare Spottiswoode retired 
from the Board. I would like to repeat the 
Board’s gratitude to Clare for her valuable 
contributions during her tenure with EnQuest. 
In conjunction with an independent search 
firm, the process of building on our rotation 
plans continues. 
Our people
The Directors assess and evolve EnQuest’s 
strategy as appropriate, taking key decisions 
on its implementation. 
In 2016, the strategic focus was again on 
positioning the business for the prevailing 
oil price environment, whilst also ensuring it 
continued to achieve its operational targets. 
Delivery against these objectives has only 
been possible due to EnQuest’s people. 
The Board and I would like to express our 
gratitude to everyone at EnQuest for having 
worked so diligently and innovatively to 
address the challenges presented by the oil 
price environment.
In particular, we are grateful to the EnQuest 
leadership team for their energy and 
dedication in navigating into place the 
complicated restructuring and capital raise. 
We are pleased that these arrangements 
have put EnQuest in the position where it 
can continue doing what it is known for and 
what it does so well, creating value from 
opportunities in maturing oil fields.
Following the capital restructuring, the Board 
also worked with the management team on 
the proposed EnQuest acquisition of interests 
in the Magnus oil field and the Sullom Voe 
Terminal. Again, this transaction is a significant 
demonstration of the stamina and ingenuity 
of our people – your Company is led by a high 
quality team. 
Governance
The Board believes that the manner in which 
it conducts its business is important and 
it is committed to working to the highest 
standards of corporate governance for the 
benefit of all of its stakeholders. Ensuring 
that the Board works effectively remains 
a key areas of focus. EnQuest’s values 
underpin a working environment where 
people are safe, creative and passionate, 
with a relentless focus on results. 
2016 saw the inception of a new Committee 
of the Board, the Risk Committee. The 
primary purpose of the Risk Committee is to 
provide a forum for in-depth examination of 
non-financial risk areas (financial risk being 
within the scope of the Audit Committee). 
Over the course of the year, the Committee 
has reviewed a number of areas such as asset 
integrity, subsurface risks and morale.
EnQuest’s corporate responsibility is 
focused on five main areas. These are, 
first and foremost, Health and Safety, 
People, Environment, Business Conduct 
and Community. The Board has approved 
EnQuest’s overall approach to Corporate 
Responsibility and specific developments 
and updates in each are brought to the 
Board’s attention when appropriate. The 
Board receives regular information on 
EnQuest’s performance in these areas, 
and specifically monitors health and safety 
and environmental reporting at each 
Board meeting. EnQuest’s HSE&A Policy 
is reviewed by the Board annually and 
all incidents, forward looking indicators 
and significant HSE&A programmes are 
discussed by the Board.
Culture is an area of increased focus 
given the impacts of the current oil price 
environment and the growth in operations, 
as both the Alma/Galia and Kraken 
projects add scale to EnQuest’s business. 
Furthermore, EnQuest is now working 
to complete its acquisition of operating 
interests in the Magnus field and the Sullom 
Voe Terminal, transitioning to take over 
operatorship and absorbing significant 
additional numbers of personnel into the 
business. It is therefore important to set 
the right tone and to foster among the 
workforce high morale, common values and 
a focus on efficient and ethical achievement. 
Furthermore, EnQuest took considerable 
care to ensure that the processes adopted 
during a rationalisation of the workforce in 
Aberdeen were, and were seen to be, fair 
and understanding. 
Dividend
The Company has not declared or paid any 
dividends since incorporation and does not 
plan to pay dividends in the near future. Any 
future payment of dividends will depend on 
the earnings and financial condition of the 
Company and on such other factors as the 
Board of Directors of the Company considers 
appropriate at the time.
A return to sustainable growth
In January 2017, with a view to continuing 
to build its growth options, EnQuest 
announced the acquisition of interests in 
the Magnus oil field and the Sullom Voe 
Terminal (‘SVT’), for both of which EnQuest 
is set to become operator, subject to the 
necessary approvals. The acquisition has an 
innovative structure, recognising EnQuest’s 
current balance sheet constraints. The 
vendor, BP , endorsed EnQuest’s capabilities, 
highlighting that EnQuest is a natural 
operator of mature assets in the North Sea, 
well placed to improve production and to 
prolong the life of such assets in the UKCS. 
 
With Magnus and SVT being added to the 
portfolio and with the 2016 restructuring 
implemented, EnQuest is positioned with the 
right assets and the right team for the next 
phase of its growth. EnQuest has the high 
efficiency and low cost capabilities required 
for this environment; it has restructured its 
operations and its ways of doing business 
such that even modest increases in oil prices 
can have a significant positive impact on 
future cash flows and growth. 
 
In 2017, EnQuest’s top operational priority 
is safely bringing the Kraken development 
onstream on schedule. As EnQuest begins to 
move beyond an extended period of heavy 
capital investment, its strategic priorities 
continue to be to increase production by 
delivering on operational and development 
execution, whilst also continuing to reduce 
the operating cost base. This combination 
of financial and operational discipline will 
result in increasing cash flows and in the 
deleveraging of the balance sheet, which 
continue to be the high priorities in the  
near term. 
