 EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 12
Amjad Bseisu
Chief Executive
Alma/Galia being negatively impacted by 
well performance. Overall production was 
also affected by extended shutdowns. The 
Kraken development finished 2016 under 
budget and on course for first oil in Q2 
2017, with the drilling programme ahead 
of schedule. 
To help protect its capital investment 
programme, EnQuest had entered into a 
substantial hedging programme for 2016; 
this contributed $255.8 million to EBITDA 
of $477.1 million in 2016. Cost control and 
efficient management of operations drove 
further material cost reductions; average 
2016 full year unit opex was $24.6/bbl, 
compared to $29.7/bbl in 2015 and $42.1/bbl 
in 2014. 2016 cash capex was $609.2 million, 
down 19% on 2015; this final 2016 capex 
total was well down on the original estimate 
of between $700 million and $750 million, 
reflecting ongoing reduction initiatives 
throughout the year, including deferral of 
payments for Kraken and Scolty/Crathes. 
“Following delivery of Kraken, EnQuest 
will begin moving from a period of 
heavy capital investment into one 
focused on cash generation and 
deleveraging the balance sheet.”
2016 was another challenging year for 
EnQuest, with continuing pressure from the 
oil price environment. Accordingly, EnQuest 
has delivered further reductions in operating 
and capital expenditure and continued to 
streamline operations. EnQuest’s low cost 
operating structure and low cost approach 
to operatorship are integral to its way of 
doing business, whilst always retaining safe 
operations as the number one priority. It was 
a year characterised by both operational and 
financial achievements, with the successful 
financial restructuring being essential for the 
strength of the balance sheet. 
The average production of 39,751 Boepd 
in 2016 included good performances at 
Heather/Broom and at PM8/Seligi, and 
a promising start from Scolty/Crathes, 
following early delivery of first oil. A first 
full year of production from Alma/Galia 
increased UKCS production over the 
prior year, despite productivity from 
Even though EnQuest had been successful in 
making significant reductions to its cost base, 
the Company also needed to restructure its 
financial position. In October 2016, EnQuest 
announced proposed amendments to the 
revolving credit facility and to both the 
retail notes and the high yield notes, as well 
as a placing and open offer. In November 
2016, EnQuest successfully completed the 
restructuring. This provided EnQuest with 
a stable and sustainable capital structure, 
reduced cash debt service obligations and 
enhanced liquidity. The revolving credit 
facility was restructured into a $1,125 million 
term loan facility and a $75 million revolving 
credit facility. The terms of the high yield 
bonds and retail bonds were amended, with 
extended maturities and interest to be paid 
in kind rather than in cash when oil prices 
are below $65/bbl in the six month period 
prior to determination. The placing and open 
offer also raised gross aggregate proceeds 
of £82 million. The restructuring was key 
for EnQuest and significantly improved its 
liquidity position. EnQuest finished the year 
with net debt of $1,796.5 million, as at  
31 December 2016.
End 2016 net 2P reserves of 215 MMboe 
represented a 6% increase on the 203 MMboe 
at the end of 2015. This reflected the 
impact of EnQuest producing 13 MMboe of 
hydrocarbons in 2016 and the acquisition of 
an additional 10.5% interest in the Kraken 
development from First Oil at the start of 
2016. There were also upward revisions to 
reserve estimates at the Thistle and Heather 
hubs, both due to improved predicted 
performance of infill wells based on reservoir 
simulation model outputs and decreases 
at Alma/Galia due to the levels of well 
performance. By the end of 2016, EnQuest 
had therefore converted into flowing barrels 
the equivalent 84% of the 81 MMboe of 
reserves with which it began its business  
with in 2010.
Health, Safety, Environment and 
Assurance (‘HSE&A’)
EnQuest maintained its commitment to the 
delivery of continual improvement in HSE&A 
performance in 2016, with excellent results 
in many areas, but with some areas requiring 
fresh actions to be undertaken. 
EnQuest’s Lost Time Injury (‘LTI’) performance 
remained strong: the Kittiwake, Northern 
Producer and EnQuest Producer assets in 
the North Sea all recorded an LTI free year. 
EnQuest’s Malaysian operations recorded 
zero LTIs and were pleased to achieve a Total 
Recordable Incident Frequency (‘TRIF’) for 
the year which was better than targeted. 
In the UK, a comprehensive HSE&A 
audit programme was completed, with 
findings being part of the 2017 continual 
improvement programme. This underlines 
EnQuest’s focus on improvement through 
the detection and resolution of issues. 
EnQuest’s focus on HSE&A continues to be 
a priority.
Chief Executive’s report
EnQuest’s performance, business model 
and strategy in 2016  EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016
13
Reserves (MMboe) 
2015
2016
203
215
+5.9%
Production (Boepd) 
2015
2016
36,567
39,751
+8.7%
EBITDA
1
 ($ million) 
2015
2016
474.2
477.1 
+0.6%
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
these, underlying production at PM8/Seligi 
increased year on year, a substantial 
achievement for a mature field with wells 
which have natural decline rates. Especially 
in a year with no drilling, this is a testament 
to the success of the programme of well 
intervention and topsides work and high 
levels of production efficiency. 
Financial performance KPIs
In 2016, EnQuest generated EBITDA of  
$477.1 million compared with $474.2 million in 
2015; the negative impact of lower oil prices, 
being mitigated by hedging income of  
$255.8 million and also by the significant 
action taken on costs. 
Cost reduction measures led to EnQuest’s 
average unit production and transportation 
cost being reduced again, down to $24.6/bbl 
compared to $29.7/bbl in 2015. 
As at 31 December 2016, EnQuest had total 
net debt of $1,796.5 million.
2017 year to date
The Kraken FPSO arrived in the North Sea in 
early January, having completed its journey 
from Singapore within the scheduled number 
of days. The vessel was berthed in Rotterdam 
for post voyage inspection and final 
preparations prior to sailing. The FPSO then 
sailed to the Kraken field once good weather 
conditions were anticipated for the hook 
up of the STP buoy mooring system to the 
FPSO. This was completed and a full rotation 
test performed so that by mid-February the 
vessel was on station and securely moored. 
Work is continuing in the turret area, as is 
topsides commissioning work. Following 
completion of the turret area work subsea 
commissioning will commence. Handover 
of FPSO systems from commissioning to 
operations continues.
In January 2017, EnQuest was pleased to 
announce an agreement to acquire from BP 
an initial 25% interest in the Magnus oil field 
representing c.16 MMboe of additional net 
2P reserves (gross reserves of 63 MMboe) 
with net production of c.4,200 Boepd in 2016 
(gross production c.16,600 Boepd) as well as 
a 3.0% interest in the Sullom Voe oil terminal 
and supply facility (‘SVT’) and additional 
interests in related North Sea pipeline 
infrastructure. EnQuest already had interests 
of 3.0% in SVT. EnQuest is to become the 
operator of these assets. The transaction is 
subject to certain regulatory, government 
authority, counterparty and partner 
consents. The consideration for these 
interests is $85 million, subject to working 
capital and other adjustments, which will be 
funded by deferred consideration payable 
from the cash flow of the assets being 
acquired. There are no requirements for cash 
from EnQuest, other than as generated from 
these assets. 
The transaction capitalises on EnQuest’s 
strengths in realising value from the 
management of maturing oil fields, as 
underlined by BP’s confidence in proposing 
a change of operatorship to EnQuest. 
Magnus is a good quality reservoir; it has 
large volumes in place, with potential for infill 
drilling and for the revitalisation of wells, and 
scope for field life extension. Magnus is a 
producing asset that will materially increase 
EnQuest’s reserve base. There is long term 
potential in Magnus and there would be a 
significant increase in cash flow at higher 
oil prices. Operationally and financially 
SVT is an important asset to EnQuest and 
taking over operatorship gives significant 
influence over its long term future. EnQuest 
is a natural strategic partner to BP for 
maturing assets and this innovative structure 
represents a natural evolution of EnQuest’s 
business. EnQuest believes the innovative 
transaction net cash flow sharing structure 
can also become a template for transferring 
maturing assets from other majors to 
efficient operators such as EnQuest. Since 
this proposed acquisition was announced, 
the process of transitioning operatorship 
of these assets and securing the necessary 
regulatory, government, counterparty and 
partner consents has begun and continues.
North Sea operations
In 2016, EnQuest produced an average of 
30,603 Boepd in the North Sea, an 11.3% 
increase on the previous year and a generally 
good performance with high levels of 
production efficiency. 2016 production 
benefitted from the drilling programme in 
H2 2015 and from the new Scolty/Crathes 
development, brought onstream ahead of 
schedule and under budget. Production was 
negatively impacted by third party shutdowns 
for maintenance, which were delayed and 
took longer than anticipated, also by the 
well performance issues at Alma/Galia, and 
reliability issues with its electrical submersible 
pumps (‘ESP’s). EnQuest monitors its projects 
to ensure that lessons learned from past 
projects, such as Alma/Galia, are used as 
inputs to the structuring of new ones; hence 
at sanction, most of the Kraken development 
was structured using lump-sum fixed price 
contracts, with remuneration for the vessel 
provider being determined by delivery and 
functionality key performance indicators.
Heather/Broom performance was one of 
the highlights of the year, with production 
of 5,948 Boepd, up 28.1% on the prior year. 
This was due to increased plant and water 
injection reliability and the continuing 
benefits of the 2015 wells workover 
programme. Driven partly by this increased 
production, but also by the ongoing cost 
reduction programme, Heather/Broom 
significantly reduced its unit operating costs.
Kraken 
In 2016, the Kraken development progressed 
well, finishing the year ahead of budget 
and on schedule for first oil in Q2 2017. The 
conversion programme for the Kraken FPSO 
vessel continued and on 23 November, the 
FPSO left Singapore, en route to the North 
Sea. Drilling for the project was ahead of 
schedule on drill centres 2 and 3 (‘DC-2’ 
and ‘DC-3’), following completion of well 
activities at drill centre 1 (‘DC-1’).
Earlier in the year, the subsea installation 
programme was completed, with all 
three drill centres fully connected to the 
submerged turret production (‘STP’) buoy for 
hook up to the FPSO and the last mooring 
pile and wire/chains installed. 
The drilling programme made excellent 
progress in 2016, with the results from the 
producer and injector wells which were 
drilled and completed meeting pre-drill 
expectations. This good progress on drilling 
and also on the execution of the subsea 
programme were key factors in the  
$375 million of additional Kraken gross 
project capex savings announced in 2016, 
reducing gross capex to c.$2.5 billion.
Malaysia
Total production of 9,148 Boepd in Malaysia 
was slightly ahead of the prior year. 
Production of 7,960 Boepd from PM8/Seligi 
was slightly lower than the prior year’s 8,689 
Boepd, as a result of additional maintenance 
shutdown days in 2016, as well as reduced 
volumes of gas and condensate, which 
are ad hoc in their nature. Adjusting for 
1 EBITDA is calculated on a business performance 
basis, and is calculated by taking profit/loss from 
operations before tax and finance income/(costs) 
and adding back depletion, depreciation, foreign 
exchange movements and the realised gain/loss 
on foreign currency derivatives related to capital 
expenditure. The prior year EBITDA has been 
restated on a comparable basis by adding back 
realised losses on foreign currency derivatives 
related to capital expenditure of $9.4 million. EnQuest PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2016
 14
CEO Amjad Bseisu with COO Neil McCulloch.
In the continuing 
challenging macro 
environment and building 
on its successes in 2016, 
EnQuest is focused on its 
differential capabilities,  
its low cost approach  
to operatorship and  
its financial discipline. 
EnQuest believes that  
these are critical enablers 
for its business.
2017 and beyond
In the continuing challenging oil price 
environment and building upon its 
successes in 2016, EnQuest is focused on its 
differential capabilities, low cost approach 
to operatorship, and financial discipline. 
The agreement with BP to acquire interests 
in, and operatorship of, Magnus and SVT 
is confirmation of the effectiveness of 
EnQuest’s capabilities and its potential to 
add value for both EnQuest and for other 
business partners.
The Kraken project remains under budget 
and on track for delivery of first oil in Q2 2017.
In December 2016, it was announced that Neil McCulloch, then EnQuest’s President, North 
Sea, was being promoted to the Group position of Chief Operating Officer, with effect from 
the start of 2017 . It is intended that Neil will join the EnQuest Board, as an Executive Director, 
at EnQuest’s 2017 Annual General Meeting (‘AGM’). Neil’s responsibilities for EnQuest’s 
North Sea operations have expanded to include production from Kraken and also EnQuest’s 
operations in Malaysia. 
EnQuest remains on course to achieve 
average production in the range of 45,000 
Boepd to 51,000 Boepd for 2017. This is 
based on six operated producing hubs in 
the UK and the PM8/Seligi hub in Malaysia, 
with the level of 2017 production being 
dependent upon the timing of first oil 
from Kraken. A full year contribution from 
Kraken in 2018 should substantially increase 
production again that year.
Six million barrels have been hedged for 
2017, at an average of c.$51/bbl.
EnQuest remains on course to reduce 
average unit opex further in 2017, in the 
range of $21/bbl to $25/bbl including Kraken 
production. EnQuest continues to seek cost 
reductions across the supply chain.
Chief Executive’s report continued
Cash capital expenditure will reduce in  
2017 and is expected to be in the range  
of $375 million to $425 million, the majority 
of which is being invested in the Kraken 
development.
Following delivery of first oil from Kraken, 
EnQuest looks forward to beginning the 
process of deleveraging the balance sheet to 
levels which are sustainable over the longer 
term. EnQuest’s combination of integrated 
technical capabilities and high levels of 
production efficiency and cost control, 
ideally positions us to realise production 
potential from the assets we own.
