 Annual report and accounts 2012 ACM Shipping Group plc 04
Chairman’s statement
Peter Sechiari
Chairman
The Group is in a strong position to capitalise 
on an upturn in the market when it occurs.
“ The Group is continuing to successfully 
execute its strategy. ”
 Results in line with expectations
 International expansion continues
 Final dividend of 7 pence, 
making 10.15 pence for the year
 New management structure in place
 Number of the key new hires added 
to the team
 The medium and longer-term 
prospects remain strong
W
hilst the market is generally weak, 
it is showing some signs of volatility 
and ACM’s focus continues to be 
on ensuring that the Group is in a strong 
position to capitalise on an upturn in the 
market when it occurs. The ongoing 
international expansion has continued.
During the period the Group received 
an approach and an indicative offer from 
RS Platou LLP. Options were also examined 
on the two groups working closely together. 
However, after reviewing these options, the 
Board concluded that none of the proposals 
discussed reflected full shareholder value 
or were in the best interests of the Group. 
Discussions concluded in March 2012.
Results
The Board reports that the results are in line 
with expectations and, although the Group 
experienced a fall in revenue from its sale 
and purchase desk, increases were achieved 
in dry cargo and tanker spot brokerage. 
Profit before tax and amortisation and 
impairment of intangibles was £4.3 million for 
the year (2011: £6.1 million). This solid profit 
was achieved despite the challenging markets.
As announced on 6 October 2011, the sale and 
purchase division was impacted by a number 
of personnel departures. As a consequence 
the Group has made a £7.8 million impairment 
of intangible assets (a non-cash item) capitalised 
in relation to the acquisition of ACM Shipping 
Services Limited in 2007. The effect of this is 
that the Group shows a £3.8 million loss 
before taxation for the year (2011: profit 
of £5.3 million). 
Earnings per share (EPS), adjusted for 
the non-cash impacts of amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets, was down 
from 24.8 pence to 17.7 pence. Basic loss 
per share was 23.8 pence (2011: earnings 
of 21.7 pence).
Dividend
The Board remains positive about the future 
of the business and is pleased to maintain 
its dividend policy to reflect this. The final  ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 05
YEAR IN REVIEW
Emplo ees
ACM’s global structure is 
working well with a strong new 
management structure in place 
and a number of ke new hires 
that have added to the team dividend is being held at 7 pence per share 
(2011: 7 pence per share), which will provide 
a total dividend of 10.15 pence for the full year 
(2011: 10.00 pence per share). The dividend 
remains well covered against the adjusted 
EPS and it is a key part of the Group’s strategy 
to maintain a good yield. The final dividend 
is payable on 5 October 2012 to shareholders 
on the register as at close of business on 
7 September 2012.
Strateg The Group is continuing to successfully 
execute its strategy to be a globally integrated 
shipbroking service provider. With new offices 
opening overseas and a strong team in place, 
the Board believes that the elements are in 
place for significant future growth.
With the ongoing rebuilding of the sale 
and purchase team underway and the global 
offices working well together, the Group’s 
strategy is very much on track and the Board 
believes that ACM has the right team and 
structure in place to take the business 
forward in the future.
Emplo ees
ACM’s global structure is working well, with 
a strong new management structure in place 
and a number of key new hires that have added 
to the team. The successful office move in 
August 2011 has provided room for further 
expansion. The Board would like to thank all 
of the Group’s employees for their ongoing 
dedication to ACM.
Prospects
ACM is in a strong position in the market 
and, despite the cyclicality of the shipping 
market, the Board remains confident of 
future growth. The Group’s strategy to 
become a diversified shipbroking service 
provider is being successfully executed 
and, given ACM’s successful expansion into 
new areas from the Group’s core business 
of tanker broking, the Board remains 
positive about the prospects for ACM.
Peter Sechiari
Chairman
