 Annual report and accounts 2012 ACM Shipping Group plc 06
Chief E ecutive’s review
 ohnn Plumbe
Chief Executive
ACM has continued to make good strategic 
progress during the period, expanding into 
new geographies that are important to the 
Group and building new global teams.
 Overall number of fixtures 
continues to grow
 Sale and purchase business being 
rebuilt with some key appointments
 Building a strong global team 
of highly motivated people
 Well positioned for any upturn 
in the markets
A
CM’s strategy remains firmly on track 
and has continued to progress during 
the period. Whilst the market remains 
generally weak in terms of freight rates, ACM 
itself is in a strong position to capitalise on 
the upturn in the market when it occurs. 
The longer-term growth prospects for the 
Group remain strong.
Profit before tax and amortisation and 
impairment of intangibles was £4.3 million 
(2011: £6.1 million). The Group continues to 
have a strong cash position with cash balances 
at the year end of £3.1 million, a decrease 
on the previous year due to £1.0 million 
exceptional capex relating to the Group’s 
office move and £1.4 million due to timing 
differences relating to bonus payments.
The Board is pleased to report that the Group’s 
overall number of fixtures continues to grow 
despite a challenging market. 
Spot brokerage
ACM’s spot brokerage desk, involving the hire 
of a ship for a single voyage, is the Group’s 
principal business. The Group’s tanker spot 
brokerage desk had a strong year with US$ 
revenue showing growth of 7% year on year. 
Rates have generally continued to show 
weakness throughout the year, although the 
Group’s average fixture rate did increase on 
2011 levels. The small tankers desk had 
an excellent year and volume grew by 4%.
The global spot brokerage desks continue 
to work well together.
Time charter
Whilst the Group’s time charter business, 
which involves the long-term hire of tankers, 
is maintaining a fairly steady volume of 
ships which it is fixing, lower hire rates are 
continuing to hold back revenue in this 
division. The team is concluding a number 
of forward time charters, although these are 
being fixed at historically low rates and over 
shorter periods due to market conditions. 
As previously stated, the forward order book 
has reduced and this continues to impact 
performance in this division.
The Group has restructured this section of 
the business and the Board is positive it now 
has the right team and structure in place 
to capitalise on any upturn in the market.
Sale and purchase
The Group has commenced the process of 
rebuilding the sale and purchase team during 
the period, following the personnel departures 
last year. This has progressed well to date, 
with the appointment of Staffan Bulow, 
Herlof Sorensen and a number of other key 
brokers in the team to build this aspect of 
c 
Overall the Group is in a strong 
position to capitalise on an future 
strengthening in the c clical 
shipping market and in particular 
our tanker spot business has 
continued to perform well 
Although the market at present 
remains challenging the Board 
is con dent that ACM has the 
right team and structure in place 
to take the business forward 
in the future ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 07
YEAR IN REVIEW
the business globally. For the period under 
review, the previous sale and purchase team 
had some ongoing business that provided a 
contribution to these results, without the full 
year costs associated with the team at that 
time. The year to 31 March 2013 will incur 
the costs of the new team, and the Board 
expects that there will be some delay before 
their full contribution to the business will 
come through.
Dr cargo
Dry cargo US$ revenue increased by 29% 
during the period and now represents 14% 
of Group revenue. For ACM, volumes are 
starting to pick up globally. In London, 
the Far East and Australia, the dry cargo 
broking desk is in the right position to take 
advantage of any future increase in freight 
rates. This sector has been particularly 
affected by low market rates and is taking 
longer than originally expected to reach 
profitability; however the Board is still 
confident in the strategy. Having invested 
in the right structure, the Group’s dry cargo 
desk is now maturing and is succeeding 
in growing its market share.
The Group has also successfully expanded 
internationally with the commencement 
of a venture in Dubai and with a Singapore 
desk being opened in this division.
Gas/LPG
Having set up a small London-based broking 
team for gas/LPG shipbroking, this continues 
to grow, although it is still in its infancy. 
The Board believes that this is an interesting 
area with considerable growth potential 
in the future and the Group will continue 
to develop this area of the business.
Overseas operations
The Board is pleased with the progress made 
by the Group’s global operations during the 
period. The international offices are working 
well together and, having invested in the right 
structure and teams globally, we are now 
in a position to grow the business. ACM’s 
international offering is one of its core 
strengths, and the Board is pleased with 
the progress made by the teams whose local 
knowledge in key regions are helping to drive 
the business forward, underpinned by the 
Group’s global infrastructure.
Financial derivatives
ACM has an established joint venture with 
GFI Group, Inc. (GFI) to conduct derivative 
brokerage, although trading volumes have 
decreased as this sector has been impacted by 
the wider market. The joint venture continues 
to contribute to ACM and financial derivatives 
are a valuable addition to the Group’s offering.
The market
The shipping industry has historically been very 
cyclical with the supply and demand for ships 
being out of step. The year to 31 March 2012 
has seen freight rates at historically low 
levels with some volatility. The average 
Baltic Exchange indices for the year in most 
markets was below those for the previous year. 
For the first half of 2012, freight rates have 
shown some increase and come in stronger 
than many expected for VLCC’s, with all 
other sizes experiencing high levels of volatility. 
The International Energy Agency (IEA) 
sees oil demand continue to grow, although 
growth is slightly down on its estimates 
earlier this year at 800,000 barrels per day 
this year. This growth is similar to that seen 
in the 2004 to 2008 period. Global stock 
building of oil, particularly for China’s 
strategic reserves, continues to support 
seaborne oil trades despite recent evidence 
of slowing economic growth. While recent 
rapid growth of US crude oil production 
and weak demand poses a threat to tanker 
earnings, the resulting rise in Atlantic basin 
crude moving to Asia is expected to lengthen 
voyages for crude carriers. Higher earnings 
have meant that scrapping of older tonnage 
has been limited so far this year, but so has the 
introduction of newbuildings as a result of 
delivery delays. The shift of refinery capacity 
East (closures in Europe/US, new additions 
in Asia) could trigger regional product 
supply shortages, increasing the need for 
seaborne product imports.
Dry bulk markets have suffered across the size 
spectrum. The average Baltic Exchange Dry 
Index for the year was 39% below the previous 
year and 67% below the average for the previous 
five years. The easing of China’s construction 
boom has limited its requirement for imported 
iron ore and coal, hitting the capesize sector 
at a time of rapid fleet growth. However, major 
bulker owners are finally taking corrective 
action by scrapping and laying up relatively 
young (15 year plus) tonnage.
The LPG and petchem gas tanker market has, 
by comparison, been in rude health so far 
this year. 
Outlook
ACM’s overall strategy remains on track 
and this has been achieved against the well 
documented challenges that the whole sector 
has faced during the period. 
Whilst the Board is mindful that the market 
is unlikely to materially change in the short 
term, we remain confident of the medium 
and long-term prospects for the Group. 
Subdued market rates are likely to constrain 
growth in the short term, but having invested 
in the building of a strong global team of 
highly motivated people, we believe that 
ACM continues to be well positioned to 
capitalise on any upturn in the markets.
Johnny Plumbe
Chief Executive
