 Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2014 02
Whilst we are only at the start of our journey as a quoted 
company, we can already see evidence that the flotation will 
provide Entu with additional opportunities for growth, both 
by raising the profile of our existing businesses and by 
providing the Company with more readily accessible capital 
to fund acquisitions and other investment. The Board 
intends to take advantage of these new opportunities as 
much as is prudent whilst ensuring that the risks inherent  
in the Group remain properly managed and controlled. 
Entu operates in a marketplace in which there are 
compelling opportunities for growth. There are around 
27 million residential homes in the UK, and the overall 
home improvements market is worth an estimated 
£27 billion annually. Particularly exciting are the 
opportunities in the areas of energy generation and 
energy efficient products. These products are growing in 
popularity due to a combination of increasing consumer 
awareness, the generally high cost of traditional home 
energy products and Government incentives towards the 
adoption of green technology in the home. Entu is well 
positioned to take advantage of these market conditions.
Entu’s strategy is to grow by offering and cross-selling a 
wide range of complementary products, including energy 
efficient windows, doors, conservatories, external and 
cavity wall insulations, solar power generation products 
and energy efficient boilers. The Group has a UK wide 
presence through established local brands, all united 
under the Entu name and supported by Job Worth Doing, 
the Group’s national installation service. 
There is significant scope to execute our strategy across 
our whole product range through enhanced marketing, 
increased cross-selling, more online sales and enhanced 
customer acquisition and retention. 
In addition to implementing our organic growth strategy, 
we will actively look at growing the Group by acquisition  
in the highly fragmented existing, and complementary, 
product lines and market areas. 
Dividend
At the time of Entu’s AIM admission the Board committed 
to implementing a dividend policy subject to their 
discretion and subject to the Company having sufficient 
distributable reserves which, based on their expectations 
of current and future trading and track record of the 
business, would commence for the year ending 
31 October 2015. 
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
DAVID M FORBES 
CHAIRMAN
Overview and strategic update 
I am pleased to report an excellent year for Entu. The 
Group achieved strong financial results and completed  
its successful admission to trading on AIM in October. 
Total Group revenues were £119m, up 24.6% on the previous 
year (2013: £95.5m). Group operating profit before 
exceptional items rose 69.5% to £10.3m (2013: £6.1m). Profit 
before tax increased 47.9% to £9m (2013: £6.1m). Adjusted 
earnings per share increased 57.7% to 12.3p (2013: 7.8p). At 
the year end, the Group had net cash of £5.8m (2013: (1.8m)).
The Company’s admission to AIM represented the start  
of a phase of integration and growth for Entu that we 
believe has the potential to deliver significant value  
for our shareholders. Strategic report
Governance
Financial statements
Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2014 03
ENTU OPERATES IN  
A MARKETPLACE IN 
WHICH THERE ARE 
COMPELLING 
OPPORTUNITIES  
FOR GROWTH. 
In addition to the commitment above, the Directors are 
pleased to declare a special interim dividend for the year 
ending 31 October 2015, amounting to 1.5p per share 
which will be paid on 13 March 2015. 
Subject to the conditions noted above, the Board confirms 
its intention to recommend a total dividend (excluding the 
exceptional first interim dividend) of 8p per share for the 
year ending 31 October 2015.
The dividend will be paid in accordance with the following 
timetable:
Ex-Dividend Date  19 February 2015
Record Date  20 February 2015
Pay Date   13 March 2015 
Annual General Meeting
The Company’s 2015 Annual General Meeting will be  
held at 9:30am on 24 March 2015 at Eversheds LLP,  
70 Great Bridgewater Street, Manchester M1 5ES.
Board and people
These strong results would not have been achieved 
without the enthusiasm, professionalism and commitment 
shown by our people this year. On behalf of the Board,  
I would like to thank them for all their hard work, and to 
emphasise how much I am looking forward to working 
with them as Entu enters this new and exciting phase  
of its life as a listed company.
The Entu (UK) plc Board itself has seen many changes  
this year, with the additions of myself as Independent 
Non-Executive Chairman, and Lorraine Clinton and  
David Grundy as Independent Non-Executive Directors  
to support Ian and Darren in driving the Group’s growth 
strategy and delivering value to shareholders. We are  
well supported in this by an able and experienced senior 
management team which we have recently further 
strengthened with the appointment of a new Group 
Marketing Director, who is responsible for continuing  
to enhance sales leads and brand awareness as  
a combined Group, across all media.
Summary and outlook
After an eventful and successful 12 months, the Group 
enters the current financial year with a strong balance 
sheet and a range of compelling opportunities for  
growth, which it is actively exploiting. The Entu brand has 
benefitted from the enhanced profile resulting from the 
Company’s status as a publicly quoted business, and we 
will continue to build on this with our cross-selling and 
organic growth initiatives together with our prime mover 
advantage in the energy generation and energy efficiency 
space, allied with our prudent acquisition strategy.  
These factors will underpin and drive profitable growth  
in the years to come. We are well positioned in our  
target markets, and we look forward to the future  
with confidence.
David M Forbes
Chairman
