 Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 04
Strategic Report
chief executive’s statement
Overview
This has been a challenging year for the Group. In 
September	2015,	the	Government	announced	a	surprise	
and	substantial	reduction	in	solar	feed-in-tariffs,	and	we	
were	forced	to	close	our	profitable	Solar	business,	a	major	
contributor	to our	Energy	Generation	and	Savings	Division.	
This,	along	with	the	sale	of	our	Norwood	kitchens	business	
earlier	in the	year,	resulted	in	a	significant	loss	of	revenue	
and	contribution,	and	left	us	with	£3.6m	of	central	
overheads designed for a larger business set on growth that 
would need to be absorbed by our continuing operations. 
We had planned for targeted acquisitions and organic 
growth	in	new,	commercial	business	streams,	mainly	
in the Energy	Generation	and	Savings	Division,	to	cover	
these	central	overheads.	However,	the	pipeline	of	
acquisition	targets	did	not	offer	any	sufficiently	attractive	
opportunities	and	growth	in	the	new,	commercial	business	
streams was slower than planned. 
Therefore,	in	May	we	acted	decisively	to	restructure	the	
Home	Improvements	Division,	scale	back	our	acquisition	
activity and close underperforming commercial business 
streams in the Energy Generation and Savings Division. 
These actions resulted in an exceptional charge of £1.9m 
in FY2016,	and	removed	£2.1m	of	cost	from	the	Group	
on an	annualised	basis.	Combined	with	the	actions	we	
have	taken	since	the	year	end,	which	are	discussed	under	
‘Short-Term	Priorities’	below,	we	are	targeting	a	total	of	
an overall	annualised	saving	of	£4.0m	by	the	end	of	FY2017.
We have also strengthened our Executive Team with senior 
appointments	in	operations,	finance,	compliance	and	
human resources.
Group revenues from continuing operations before 
exceptional items were down slightly at £87.7m (2015: 
£89.6m),	mainly	due	to	lower	finance	commissions	
following a	reduction	in	interest	rates	offered	on	consumer	
finance	products.	However,	despite	the	challenges	we	
faced	this	year,	underlying	gross	margins	were	relatively	
constant at 31.3% (2015: 31.6%) and underlying EBITDA was 
unchanged at £2.4m (2015: £2.4m). 
The	overall	loss	for	the	year,	after	exceptional	items	and	
losses	on	discontinued	operations,	was	£5.6m	(2015:	profit	
of £2.7m). The Group’s results are discussed in more detail 
in the ‘Financial Review’.
The decisive actions we have taken will allow us to focus 
on our	core	strengths,	improve	returns	in	our	core	Home	
Improvements Division and reposition the business for 
growth in 2018.
Ian Blackhurst
Chief	Executive	Officer Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 05
Strategic report governance Financial StatementS
divisional r eview
Home Improvements
Our Home Improvements Division is one of the UK’s largest 
providers	of	replacement	windows,	doors,	conservatories	
and	other	home	improvement	products	and,	despite	the	
challenges	faced	by	the	Group,	remains	a	market	leader.	
The Division sells to retail customers directly through its 
own brands or indirectly through partnerships with other 
home improvement businesses. 
We	had	a	slow	start	to	the	financial	year	due	to	
management time being focussed on stabilising the Group 
after the rapid exit from our Solar business in September 
2015.	However,	in	the	first	two	months	of	2016,	we	enjoyed	
our	highest	ever	rise	in	new	orders,	which	reached	record	
levels	in	the	second	quarter	of	the	financial	year.	
Whilst	this	was	a	significant	achievement	for	the	sales	
teams	across	the	Division,	the	pressure	this	order	book	
growth	placed	on	our	installation	operations,	coupled	
with the	focus	brought	on	the	business	through	the	
restructuring	exercise,	exposed	weaknesses	in	the	
Division’s operations both in the planning and delivery of 
new installations and the clearing down of remedial works. 
This,	in	turn,	led	to	an	increase	in	our	debtor	position	in	
2016.	Since	May,	I	have	assumed	direct	responsibility	for	
installation	operations	and,	although	it	has	taken	more	
time	to	address	all	the	issues	than	expected	originally,	
significant	progress	has	been	made.
The transition to a single national sales and marketing 
function as part of the restructuring exercise resulted in an 
inevitable	dip	in	new	orders	in	the	third	quarter,	but	this	
allowed breathing space for our installation operations to 
bring	the order	book	back	into	balance	with	our	installation	
capacity	and,	by	the	end	of	the	fourth	quarter,	we	were	
back on track. 
The Division was also successful in securing FCA 
authorisation	as	a	credit	broker	for	consumer	finance	
products	provided	through	our	finance	partners.
Energy Generation and Saving
As	noted	above,	our	Energy	Generation	and	Saving	Division	
has	seen	significant	change	in	the	year	with	the	closure	
of new,	commercial	business	streams	that	were	under-
performing	and	the	sale	of	Astley.	At	the	year	end,	the	
Division comprised our insulation and new commercial LED 
lighting installation businesses.
Repairs and Renewals Service Agreements (‘RRSA’)
The	RRSA	Division	offers	customers	an	annual	cover	plan	
on many of its core products and the division performed 
in line	with	expectations.	
the firm and decisive actions we have taken in 2016  
leave us leaner and more focussed. Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 06
Strategic Report
s hort term Priorities
We have restructured our business to focus on our core 
Home Improvements Division. The decisive actions taken 
in	2016	have	stabilised	the	business,	and	the	priorities	
for 2017	are	to	improve	returns,	increase	cash	generation,	
further	reduce	risk	and,	ultimately,	create	a	robust	
platform that will enable us to return to sustainable growth 
in	2018.	To deliver	this,	we	have	strengthened	our	
Executive	Team with	senior	appointments	in	operations,	
finance,	compliance	and	human	resources,	who	will	focus	
on the following priorities in 2017:
 > Deliver £4m annualised savings. We delivered £2.1m 
of annualised	savings	from	the	actions	we	took	in	2016.	
Through further actions in 2017 to centralise service 
teams	at	our	Head	Office	in	the	North	West,	focus	
installation	administration	in	three	major	hub	depots	
and	further	operational	efficiencies,	we	plan	to	deliver	
an annualised £4m of savings by the end of 2017.
 > Improve operational efficiency. As part of the 
restructure	in	2016,	we	identified	a	series	of	measures	
to improve	the	efficiency	of	our	service	and	installation	
teams	to	reduce	the	lead	times	from	sale	to	installation,	
which	will improve	returns	and	cash	collection.
 > Leverage supply chain. Through tighter quality 
control procedures	and	management	of	supply	
contracts,	we	can	reduce	wastage	further	and	reduce	
inefficiency in operations. We will also review our 
contractual arrangements with suppliers to obtain 
improved prices and payment terms where we can. 
 > Improve cash collection. We have undertaken a series 
of measures	to	improve	cash	collection,	including	the	
implementation	of	revised	terms	and	conditions,	tighter	
job	completion	procedures	and	the	strengthening	of	
the credit	control	function.	We	are	focussed	on	clearing	
the backlog of remedial work that arose during 2016. 
 > Strengthen controls and processes. With senior 
appointments	in	finance,	compliance	and	human	
resources,	we	will	strengthen	controls	and	processes	
across the Group to improve management information 
systems and reduce risk.
s trategy
Our overall vision to become the UK’s leading installer 
of energy	efficient	products	for	retail	and	commercial	
customers	remains	unchanged,	and	the	three	steps	
required to deliver this vision are as follows: 
 > Step 1 – Focus on Core Strengths.	As	noted	above,	our	
immediate priority is to focus on our core strengths and 
improve	returns,	generate	cash	and	reduce	risk	in	our	
Home Improvements Division. 
 > Step 2 – Leverage Our Core Business. Once we 
have delivered	a	robust	platform	for	growth	in	our	
core Home Improvements	Division,	we	will	look	for	
consolidation opportunities around strong national 
brands that will allow us to create sales and marketing 
leverage through higher sales conversion ratios and 
operational	leverage	driven	by	a	single,	national	
installation service. 
 > Step 3 – Build Our Energy Efficiency Offering. We 
will continue	to	invest	in	a	select	number	of	corporate	
relationships where we can build our portfolio of 
energy efficient	products	and	expand	our	services	into	
commercial	markets	in	2017,	initially	through	outsourced	
delivery.	Our	key	investment	criteria,	as	well	as	
producing returns at least equal to our core Home 
Improvements	business,	will	be	opportunities	where	
we can	influence	sales	directly	and,	eventually,	absorb	
delivery capability into our national installation platform. 
To provide greater clarity between our existing core retail 
markets	and	the	significant	growth	opportunities	open	
to us	in	commercial	markets	in	2017,	we	intend	to	simplify	
our internal segmental reporting of results in 2017 to 
‘Retail’ (i.e. B2C) and ‘Commercial’ (i.e. B2B) to align 
our segmental	analysis	more	closely	with	our	expected	
customer	base.	Longer	term,	we	also	envisage	reporting	
our	national	installation	service,	Job	Worth	Doing,	 
as	a	separate	profit centre. Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 07
Strategic report governance Financial StatementS
Outlook
The	firm	and	decisive	actions	we	have	taken	in	2016	
leave us	leaner	and	more	focussed.	However,	there	is	
still much	work	to	do	to	improve	operational	efficiency,	
clear down our backlog of remedial work and strengthen 
our	controls	and	processes.	We	have	defined	plans	to	
reduce	costs	further,	but	it	remains	a	challenge	to	realise	
all the potential savings in 2017.
Nevertheless,	revenues	in	the	first	quarter	were	ahead	
of plan	and,	if	we	can	hold	this	level	of	performance	
and continue	to	make	the	progress	we	have	already	
made in	reducing	costs,	we	can	end	the	year	in	line	
with expectations	with	a	robust	platform	for	a	return	
to growth	in	2018.
Ian Blackhurst
Chief Executive
28 March 2017
Board Focus
s hort term Priorities
 > Deliver £4m annualised savings          
 > Improve operational efficiency
 > Leverage supply chain
 > Improve cash collection
 > Strengthen controls and processes.
s trategy
 > Step 1 – Focus on Core Strengths 
 > Step 2 – Leverage Our Core Business
 > Step 3 –  Build Our Energy 
Efficiency Offering
