 Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 02
Strategic Report
chairman’s statement
r eview of the year
During	the	year,	we	have	taken	difficult,	but	necessary,	
actions to focus on improving returns and cash generation 
in our core Home Improvements business and to reduce 
risk across the Group. 
Shortly before the last year end we closed our Solar 
business because of the Government’s unexpected 
decision	to	reduce	substantially	the	feed-in-tariffs	for	solar	
energy,	rendering	that	business	uneconomic.	This	left	the	
Group with an overhead base that had been established 
for	a	larger	and	growing	business	which,	as	I	said	last	year,	
either had to be absorbed by acquisitions and growth 
in new	business	streams,	or	cut	back	to	fit	a	refocussed	
Home Improvements business. Our preference was 
to absorb	these	excess	overheads	through	growth,	 
but	we	did not	consider	any	of	the	available	acquisition	
opportunities	sufficiently	attractive	and	the	new	business	
streams	did not	produce	the	growth we	were	hoping	for.	
Consequently,	we	restructured	operations	and	cut	
overheads	aggressively	to	create	a robust	platform	
that was	fit	for	purpose	and	allow	the Group	to	make	
a sensible	return	in	due	course.
In	addition	to	closing	our	Solar	business	last	year,	we	
also sold	our	under-performing	Norwood	Interiors	
kitchens	business,	and	this	year,	as	part	of	a	wide-ranging	
restructure	of	our	operations,	we	closed	our	Europlas	
business to create greater focus and to improve returns 
across the Group. We also sold Astley Façades Limited  
(‘Astley’),	which	we	acquired	in	March	2015	and	grew	faster	
than	expected,	creating	an	increased	working	capital	
requirement	and	risk	profile	that	no	longer	matched the	
Group’s strategy going forward. 
Finally,	we	undertook	a	detailed	review	of	all	our	subsidiary	
company balance sheets to remove any remnants of those 
discontinued	businesses,	in	order	to	provide	a	stable	
platform from which to trade forward. This is discussed 
in more	detail	in	the	‘Financial	Review’.
r esults
Group revenue from continuing operations was £87.7m 
(2015:	£89.6m)	and	operating	profit	from	continuing	
operations before exceptional items was £2.5m  
(2015: £7.2m).
After	exceptional	items	of	£4.6m	(2015:	£0.5m),	the	Group	
made	an	operating	loss	of	£2.1m	(2015:	profit	£6.7m)	and	
with losses on discontinued operations of £3.8m (2015: 
£3.0m),	the	overall	loss	for	the	year	was	£5.6m	(2015:	profit	
of £2.7m). This provided a basic loss per share of 8.6p 
(2015: earnings per share of 4.2p). 
David M Forbes 
Independent	Non-Executive	Chairman Entu (UK) plc Annual Report 2016 03
Strategic report governance Financial StatementS
dividend
The Board declared and paid an interim dividend for 
the year	of	0.5p	per	share.	However,	in	the	light	of	the	
restructuring	of	the	Group	and	the	final	results	for	the	
year,	the	Board	has	reconsidered	the	dividend	policy	and,	
as	announced	on	7	February	2017,	determined	that	it	is	
not appropriate	to	recommend	a	final	dividend	for	the	
year ended	31	October	2016.	The	Board	intends	that	
Entu return	to	the	dividend	list	as	soon	as	possible	and	
the Directors	will	assess	future	dividends	as	the	Group’s	
balance sheet and distributable reserves strengthen.
board
There have been several changes to the Board during 
the year.	On	14	January	2016,	Geoff	Stevens	stepped	
down as	Chief	Financial	Officer	and	assumed	the	role	of	
Non-Executive	Director.	After	the	conclusion	of	last	year’s	
Annual	General	Meeting,	Geoff	was	appointed	Chairman	
of the	Audit	Committee	and	became	a	member	of	the	
Remuneration	Committee.	On	the	same	date,	and	
following	an	extensive	external	search,	it	was	announced	
that	Neill	Skinner	had	joined	the	Board	as	Chief	Financial	
Officer	on	a	full	time	basis.	
Following	the	restructuring	exercise,	the	Group	announced	
on	19	July	2016	that	Andrew	Corless	(appointed	14	January	
2016),	Chief Operating	Officer,	had	resigned	from	the	
Board	to pursue	new	opportunities.	
Darren	Cornwall	stood	down	from	the	Board	with	effect	
from	15	April	2016	to	work	on	a	more	flexible	basis.	Darren	
continues to work for the Group developing opportunities 
which have the scope to add value to the Group’s product 
and	service	offering	as	well	as	assisting	in	margin	
improvement plans for execution in the coming months. 
Darren	also	provided	project	support	in	the	corporate	
transactions described in the ‘Review of the Year’.
People
On	behalf	of	the	Board,	I	wish	to	thank	all	our	people	
for their	hard	work,	professionalism	and	commitment	
in delivering	the	restructuring	programme	and	putting	
in place	the	changes	necessary	to	improve	the	Group’s	
return and cash generation.
s trategy
Whilst the focus in the past year has been on disposals 
and closures,	the	immediate	focus	is	on	securing	gains	
from	operational	efficiencies	and	organic	growth	to	return	
the	Group	to	an	acceptable	level	of	profitability.
In the longer term it remains the Board’s strategy to 
make selective	acquisitions,	and	to	enter	commercial	
partnerships and distribution agreements in the product 
and	geographical	areas	in	which	we	currently	operate,	
providing	always	that	we	can	see	a	sensible	return	within	 	
modest timescale.
However,	the	core	strategy	in	the	medium	term	remains	
unchanged. Entu is one of the UK’s leading home energy 
efficiency	groups	providing	energy	efficiency	products	
and services	to	homeowners	and	businesses	nationwide.	
We are aiming to build a business that anticipates a 
broadening of its sales channels and is well placed to 
serve them,	with	an	increasing	range	of	products,	
through an	efficient	and	established	infrastructure.	
The Board intends to take advantage of these new 
opportunities	in	time,	but	in	the	short-term,	we	need	to	
focus	on	our	core	business,	improve	returns,	strengthen	
our balance sheet and ensure that the risks inherent in 
the Group	remain	properly	managed	and	controlled.
David M Forbes
Chairman
28 March 2017
during the year , we have taken difficult, but necessary , actions to 
focus on improving returns and cash generation in our core home 
Improvements business and to reduce risk across the group.
