 CHIEF EXECUTIVE'S
Q&A
What were your reasons for joining the Company?
The requirement for simple and affordable testing for patients at a 
clinic or point of need to enable early diagnosis and correct therapy 
is increasingly well understood in healthcare settings. I thought 
that Genedrive
®
 was a very compelling and interesting solution, 
and I was very impressed with the development team’s capabilities 
and enthusiasm. From a business perspective, the opportunities 
are large unfolding markets with a relatively small competitive 
footprint. While these markets can be complex, the rewards are 
great for those that are successful in navigating the development 
and commercial path.
 
What are your first impressions?
Now that I have had the opportunity to see the development 
programmes first hand, I have been very impressed by the team 
of professional staff at genedrive plc as well as encouraged by the 
robustness demonstrated in the Genedrive
®
 instrument and the 
wide variety of applications in which it can successfully perform. 
I think this bodes well as we look to menu and applications 
development, both in what we might do directly ourselves and 
where we might look to partners for co-development opportunities.
What are your immediate priorities?
My two priorities are to demonstrate Genedrive
®
’s adoption in the 
market place, and to give the organisation the focus and direction 
to execute on the commitments we have made. While it is very early 
days, we need to be vigilant on the commercial progress we have 
made in the launch of the MTB/RIF assay in India and any learning 
we can take from that. We will need to spend additional time on 
engaging with clinical opinion leaders. This understanding will help 
support our launch processes for our Genedrive
®
 HCV test in the 
EU next year, and the subsequent work needed to gain regulatory 
clearances in target countries.
 
What is your vision for the future?
Spearheading new diagnostics solutions in non-laboratory settings 
has the potential to position Genedrive
®
 as an internationally 
leading molecular diagnostic platform. We have staked our current 
development focus squarely on MTB and HCV, but I’m eager to 
explore the partnerships that can help us potentially not only 
to build further the Genedrive
®
 menu, but allow us to explore 
additional routes to market as we move beyond our initial focus  
in India.
David Budd
Chief Executive Officer
Financial Statements Strategic Report 
 genedrive plc Annual Report 2016
 5
Governance
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Chief Executive's Q&A
