 CHAIRMAN'S
Statement
I am very pleased to report on the progress which the Company has 
made since my last report.
Our key priorities during the period have been to continue the process 
of re-focusing the Company on the highly attractive opportunities 
which the Genedrive
®
 diagnostics platform offers in the market for 
decentralised, near patient diagnostic tests and ensuring the success 
of its commercial launch and continued development.
We have begun the launch of our MTB/RIF assay in India, our first 
commercial market. While we have encountered challenges not 
uncommon in the launch of new diagnostics products, early interest 
in the market has been encouraging and our post-market surveillance 
studies have confirmed that the Genedrive
®
 test offers an attractive, 
low cost and accessible alternative for MTB/RIF testing. 
We remain confident in the potential of the Genedrive
®
 MTB/RIF 
assay in what are significant market opportunities, and are working 
to develop further commercialisation efforts and improve certain 
technical aspects of the product based on our in-market experience.
We also report on the continued broader validation of the Genedrive
®
 
platform, with the development of our HCV test on track for CE 
marking in March/April 2017 and significant progress seen in our US 
Department of Defense project for the development of Genedrive
®
 as 
a handheld test for biohazard identification.
Last year, we announced the conclusion of our collaboration with 
University of Maryland, Baltimore (UMB) in Radiation Biodefense 
and this has impacted our Services income. However, significant 
progress towards replacing this income has been achieved. Also, as 
previously announced, we have appointed advisors to undertake a 
review of our Services operations and will update on the progress of 
the review in the coming months. 
The period has seen the appointment of David Budd as CEO, bringing 
over 20 years of international commercial and operational experience 
in the diagnostics and molecular devices field to the Company and 
strengthening our ability to exploit fully the opportunity which our 
Genedrive
®
 platform represents. David’s experience and focus is 
already making a significant impact across the Company.
Furthermore, the £6.5m (£6.0m net) fundraising approved in July 
2016 has strengthened our financial position.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our staff, investors,  
and customers for their commitment and support over the past year 
and we look forward to updating investors on our progress over the 
coming year.
Dr. Ian Gilham
Chairman
1 November 2016
Ian Gilham, Ph.D.
Chairman
genedrive plc Annual Report 2016
4
Page Title at start: Content Section at start:
Chairman's Statement
