 2
Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
OUR SERVICES
Clinical research services
Ergomed provides clinical 
development services to over  
60 clients ranging from top 10 
pharmaceutical companies to small 
and mid-sized drug development 
companies. Ergomed successfully 
manages clinical development from 
Phase I through to late phase post-
marketing programmes. O+P and 
GASD were acquired in June 2016.
Drug safety and medical 
information
Established in 2008 and acquired by 
Ergomed in July 2014, PrimeVigilance 
is a pharmacovigilance (‘PV’) and 
Medical Information services company 
with an established international 
footprint and a heritage of excellence 
and leadership in the field of 
pharmacovigilance. PharmInvent  
was acquired in November 2016.
2016 Revenue split
£39.2m
 Clinical research services: 
£25.8 million, growth of 18% on PY
 Drug safety and medical information: 
£13.4 million, growth of 63% on PY
Ergomed at a glance
65.8%
34.2%
£25.8m
+18%
Clinical research services revenue
£13.4m
+63%
Drug safety and medical information 
revenue Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
3
Strategic report Governance Financial information
Ergomed has 20 years’ experience working across 
the world in many therapeutic areas, with a 
particular expertise in oncology, neurology and 
immunology and the development of orphan 
drugs. Solutions are tailored to meet the 
requirements of individual clients and specific 
projects with an uncompromising commitment to 
quality standards.
Ergomed believes its approach to clinical trials is 
differentiated from other providers by its 
innovative Study Site Management model and the 
use of Study Physician Teams resulting in a closer 
relationship between Ergomed and the physicians 
involved in clinical trials.
As well as providing high quality clinical 
development services, Ergomed is building a 
portfolio of co-development partnerships with 
pharma and biotech companies which share the 
risks and rewards of drug development. Ergomed 
leverages its expertise and services in return for 
carried interest in the drugs under development.
O+P and GASD, a full-service CRO and 
biostatistics specialist respectively, were acquired 
in June 2016. These companies expanded 
Ergomed’s reach in the German speaking markets 
and brought specialist expertise into the Group.
The pharmacovigilance services offered by 
PrimeVigilance cover all the regulatory and 
scientific elements of PV required to obtain and 
maintain a product licence within Europe: 
 – EU Qualified Person
 – Risk Management Planning (‘RMP'), 
 – Compliant PV System with consistent Adverse 
Event data capture
 – Validated ARISg safety database
 – Robust Quality Management
 – Expedited reporting, preparation of PSURs, 
literature screening, signal detection and 
evaluation, benefit-risk assessment
 – Compliance auditing, support during crisis and 
various ad hoc assignments
 – Integrated international Medical Information 
service using AGInquirer database
PrimeVigilance operates from bases in Guildford, 
UK, Zagreb, Croatia, Belgrade, Serbia and this 
year has opened a fourth location in Boston, USA. 
PrimeVigilance is currently providing services 
across more than 100 countries to a range of 
international pharma, generic and biotech clients.
PharmInvent, a leading pharmacovigilance and 
regulatory services business, was acquired in 
November 2016. Combining PharmInvent’s proven 
expertise with PrimeVigilance creates one of the 
largest international specialist service providers in 
the highly regulated drug safety sector. The 
enlarged business will have a broad international 
client list offering significant opportunities to 
cross sell, as well as an expanded range of 
services to attract new customers. 
See our strategy on pages 12 to 15
300 +
studies
50,000 +
patients studied
56 
countries where we 
conduct clinical trials
300 +
employees
100+
customers
100+ 
countries covered
£39.2m
+30%
revenue 4
Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
OUR PRODUCTS
CO-DEVELOPMENT
Ergomed at a glance
Ergomed has created a risk-sharing 
model whereby we offer to contribute 
to the cost of clinical trials through 
significantly reduced fees in return for 
a carried interest in any future revenues 
of the product, including out-licensing 
milestones and sales.
Ergomed leverages its experience and 
expertise in drug development to 
evaluate new opportunities. The 
Company has an active portfolio of six 
co-development programmes with five 
co-development partners:
FIVE 
partners
SIX 
products
Our diversified product pipeline 
Compound Partner Next 
milestone
AEZS 108 
Aeterna
Zentaris
1H 2017
Lorediplon Ferrer 1H 2017
Multikine CEL-SCI 2018
Sevuparin 
Modus 
Therapeutics
1H 2018
Sepranolone 
Asarina 
Pharma
TBC
Multikine CEL-SCI TBC
Pre-clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III
Head & neck cancer
Endometrial cancer
Insomnia
Sickle-Cell Disease
Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder
Perianal warts
Partnership Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
5
Strategic report Governance Financial information
Status of Ergomed’s current partnerships
Grupo Ferrer Internacional, SA: 
Ergomed has partnered with Ferrer on lorediplon, a 
novel, longer acting non-BZD hypnotic drug that 
modulates the GABAa receptor. We were very 
pleased to announce that the primary and many of 
the secondary endpoints for phase II study were met, 
indicating that lorediplon was both safe and effective 
in insomnia patients. Ferrer is currently exploring the 
full data set and will initiate partnering activities. 
Whilst the product already has an Asian commercial 
partner, Ferrer will look to bring on board a 
commercial partner for US marketing and to support 
the ongoing clinical development. If Ferrer receive a 
payment at completion of this licensing deal, 
Ergomed will receive a share, along with a share 
of all future revenues received by Ferrer for the 
commercialisation of the product. 
Aeterna Zentaris Inc. 
(NASDAQ: AEZS; TSX: AEZ): 
Ergomed is working with Aeterna Zentaris on the 
Phase III pivotal study comparing zoptaerlin 
doxorubicin (‘Zoptrex™’) as second line therapy for 
locally-advanced, recurrent or metastatic 
endometrial cancer. In January 2017 Aeterna Zentaris 
announced completion of the study, with the 
required number of patient outcomes. We are 
currently in the process of collecting the final data 
points and the results of the study are expected to be 
announced in April 2017. If successful, the next step 
for this product would be registration. Aeterna 
Zentaris has entered into five marketing partnerships 
with Zoptrex for various territories in Asia, Israel, 
Australia and New Zealand. Ergomed has received a 
percentage of the upfront payments and will receive 
its share of further receipts accordingly to our 
revenue share agreement. 
CEL-SCI Corporation
(NYSE: CVM): 
Ergomed is working with CEL-SCI on the largest 
ever Phase III study in head and neck cancer with 
their lead product Multikine®. Having reached the 
recruitment target but observed a lower overall 
death rate, CEL-SCI decided to submit a protocol 
amendment to include additional patients into the 
study. During the review of the amendment, the 
FDA put the study on a partial clinical hold 
requesting additional information. CEL-SCI is in 
continuing dialogue with the FDA to try to resolve 
the questions posed and supply the FDA with 
supplemental information. Following a Type A 
meeting, on 8 February 2017, CEL-SCI announced 
that they were continuing with efforts to have the 
clinical hold released. 
CEL-SCI Corporation
(NYSE: CVM): 
Ergomed is also working with CEL -SCI on a Phase I 
study of Multikine® in peri-anal warts. With the 
ongoing discussions with the FDA regarding the 
head and neck cancer trial, CEL-SCI has 
temporarily suspended patient recruitment in the 
peri-anal warts study. All other activities, including 
pre-screening activities to identify potential 
subjects, are ongoing.
Modus Therapeutics AB 
(formerly Dilaforette AB): 
Ergomed is working with Modus Therapeutics on 
the Phase II study of sevuparin in patients with 
Sickle-Cell Disease (‘SCD') experiencing acute 
Vaso-Occlusive Crisis (‘VOC'). The first interim 
analysis was completed in November 2016 
demonstrating a good safety profile and the study 
enrolment was extended to adolescents. With this 
permission, Modus Therapeutics decided to adjust 
the statistical assumptions and include 150 
patients (up from 77) to give the study the 
strongest chance to reach a significant readout. It 
is planned that this recruitment target will be 
reached by first quarter 2018 with study results 
released thereafter. Modus Therapeutics is part of 
the Karolinska Development AB (STO: KDEV, 
‘Karolinska Development’) portfolio.
Asarina AB: 
In November 2016, Ergomed announced that it is 
working with Asarina on the Phase IIb study of 
sepranolone in Premenstrual Dysphoric Disorder 
(‘PMDD'), an extremely severe form of pre-
menstrual syndrome where women are, on a 
regular basis, unable to work or live a normal life 
for several days each menstrual cycle. 
Sepranolone, is a proprietary, first-in-class, 
endogenous, small molecule, that acts as a 
GABA-A modulating steroid antagonist (‘GAMSA') 
and is the first product developed exclusively for 
PMDD. The effect of sepranolone has been 
demonstrated in animal models of the disorder as 
well as in a validated human pharmaco-dynamic 
model used to evaluate target engagement of 
drugs that influence GABA mechanisms in the 
brain. We are currently preparing the study 
protocol and expect the first patients to be 
recruited in the second half of 2017 with the study 
completing in 2018. The study is expected to enrol 
235 patients in 14 sites across five countries. 
Asarina is also part of the Karolinska Development 
portfolio.
See our strategy on pages 12 to 15 6
Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
OUR PRODUCTS
HAEMOST A TIX
Ergomed at a glance
Ergomed acquired Nottingham based 
Haemostatix in May 2016 to access its 
proprietary technology and pipeline  
of two lead products, PeproStat™ and 
ReadyFlow™, for the surgical bleeding 
market. The Haemostatix acquisition 
represents a logical extension of  
its well established commitment to  
co-development, with the potential to 
generate significant shareholder value. 
Patented fibrinogen-binding peptide technology
Linker
Fibrinogen-binding 
peptide (GPRP)
Recombinant
albumin
Winner of the 2015 Emerging 
Technology competition
$2.5bn
haemostat market Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
7
Strategic report Governance Financial information
Surgical bleeding and its markets
The surgical bleeding market is estimated to be 
worth approximately $2.5 billion and is growing at 
six per cent. per annum (Source: MedMarket 
Diligence). It is comprised of a variety of drugs 
and devices (‘haemostats’), some of which work 
simply by closing the wound to stop blood flow, 
thereby giving time for the body’s own clotting 
system to work. Other products supplement the 
body’s naturally occurring proteins and enzymes 
to promote clot formation. To address this broad 
market, Haemostatix has developed a platform 
technology which can generate different products 
to address the various segments, thereby 
accessing a significant portion of the total 
‘haemostat’ market.
The current blood clotting products on the market 
have a number of drawbacks:
 – Require preparation or reconstitution: they 
are typically either frozen or in powder form and 
therefore require preparation prior to use, which, 
in an acute situation, is an obvious disadvantage. 
Moreover, prior preparation can lead to wastage 
as bleeding is often unpredictable.
 – Slow speed of action: some are relatively 
ineffective or can take a long time to work.
 – Derived from blood: they are primarily derived 
from human donor blood or from animal sources, 
which have the theoretical risk of infection and a 
complex supply chain.
The Directors believe that the products under 
development by Haemostatix overcome these 
disadvantages. In addition, Haemostatix’s 
products are planned to have a low cost of 
production, potentially allowing a pricing 
advantage over some existing products. The 
Directors estimate the combined market potential 
for its two lead products to be $0.5 billion. 
The Haemostatix pipeline
PeproStat™
The Directors believe that the lead product, 
PeproStat™, a liquid haemostat, overcomes the major 
drawbacks of existing products; namely that the 
active pharmaceutical ingredient (‘API’) is 
manufactured from blood-free components, is 
formulated as a ready-to-use solution (applied with 
commercially available sponges) and acts rapidly. 
PeproStat™ has been evaluated in a Phase I clinical 
trial in 20 patients and showed that during surgery, 
95% of bleeding was stopped within three minutes, 
and on average in 1.4 minutes. This compares with 
the thrombins that are on the market and claim to 
stop bleeding in between three to six minutes. 
A Phase IIb study will repeat the Phase I trial 
described above in a larger population and in four 
different surgical indications. The Phase IIb trial,  
which will begin in early 2017, will be conducted in 
about 120 patients and is expected to report 
results in 1Q 2018.
ReadyFlow™
Haemostatix’s second product candidate, 
ReadyFlow™, is a ready-to-use, transparent, 
haemostatic gel that can be applied to bleeding 
sites where the surface is not accessible or uneven. 
ReadyFlow™ gel is pre-mixed with the potent 
peptide-based active and packaged in a pre-filled 
syringe. Unlike competing products, ReadyFlow™  
is transparent and manufactured from blood-free 
and animal-free components. ReadyFlow™ is 
expected to enter Phase I clinical trials in 2018.
$500 m
combined PeproStat™ and 
ReadyFlow™ peak sales 
potential 
20
patients tested 
PeproStat™ in a  
Phase I clinical trial
1Q 2018
PeproStat™ is expected to 
report Phase IIb proof-of-
concept trial
