 10
Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive Officer’s review
DELIVERING ON 
MUL TIPLE FRONTS
 
Dr Miroslav Reljanović
Chief Executive Officer
“… a transformational 
year for Ergomed…”
I am delighted to report on a 
transformational year for Ergomed. The 
Company exceeded its targets in terms of 
revenue and adjusted EBITDA, raised  
£9.2 million in an institutional placing, 
completed four acquisitions, of which O+P 
and GASD were acquired at the same 
time, and added another partnership to 
the co-development portfolio. 
Services – another year of 
good growth
New business won in 2016 of £42 
million, up 50% on 2015, drove overall 
Services revenue growth of 30%.
Services growth was powered by 
PrimeVigilance revenues which grew at 
63%, complemented by 18% growth 
from clinical research services. 
Excluding acquisitions, overall revenue 
growth was 27%.
In June 2016, we announced the 
acquisitions of O+P and GASD based in 
Cologne and Neuss, Germany 
respectively. O+P is a full service contract 
research organisation that has also 
developed a proprietary FDA compliant 
Electronic Data Capture (‘EDC') system 
called OPVERDI, which can be configured 
for individual trials on a multilingual basis. 
GASD offers data management, statistical 
analysis, biometric reporting and 
statistical consulting services for the 
pharmaceutical industry. In addition to a 
scalable EDC system and world-class 
biostatistics expertise, the acquisitions of 
O+P and GASD have brought greater 
access to the German speaking markets 
and have already resulted in several 
contract wins.
In November 2016, we announced the 
acquisition of PharmInvent based in 
Prague, Czech Republic. PharmInvent is 
led by an experienced, ex-regulatory 
agency team that offers drug safety and 
regulatory consultancy expertise. They 
also have an extensive network of 
international pharmacovigilance experts 
that provide advice and support on local 
product safety and offer integrated global 
support for pharma and generic  Ergomed plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
11
Strategic report Governance Financial information
companies’ products. Combining 
PharmInvent’s proven expertise with 
PrimeVigilance creates one of the largest 
international specialist service providers in 
the highly regulated drug safety sector.
The enlarged business has a broad 
international client list offering significant 
opportunities to cross sell, as well as an 
expanded range of services to attract 
new customers.
Global demand for quality outsourced 
drug development and drug safety 
services remains strong and Ergomed 
continues to benefit from this trend. 
Ergomed ended 2016 with a total backlog 
of contracted work with a value to be 
invoiced in future years of approximately 
£70 million (2015: £59 million).
Products – Haemostatix and one more 
co-development partnership added
Ergomed is also in the distinct position 
of offering co-development 
partnerships and is committed to 
building its portfolio of co-development 
assets and delivering clinical data, 
thereby creating significant potential 
shareholder value in the next few years.
As part of our co-development 
business development activities, we 
identified what we believe to be a 
particularly promising opportunity in 
Haemostatix. With solid pre-clinical and 
clinical evidence and a low cost yet fast 
development programme, we believe 
Haemostatix offers a rare opportunity to 
capture the full value of the product 
potential with reasonable risk. We 
acquired Haemostatix in May 2016, at the 
same time raising £9.2 million via an 
institutional placing. Since then, we have 
been preparing PeproStat™, a liquid 
haemostat for a Phase IIb study and 
announced the start of the trial in March 
2017. We expect to complete recruitment 
around the end of the year with topline 
results available in the first quarter of 
2018. At the same time, ReadyFlow™, a 
flowable gel haemostat, is in formulation 
development and is expected to be 
Phase I ready by the first quarter of 2018.
With combined annual peak sales 
potential of up to $500 million, the Board 
believes the Haemostatix products have 
the capability to deliver very significant 
value to Ergomed shareholders not 
otherwise achievable in traditional 
co-development deals.
In November 2016 we signed a co- 
development agreement with Asarina 
AB for the Phase IIb clinical 
development of sepranolone as a 
targeted treatment for premenstrual 
dysphoric disorder (‘PMDD’). The 
co-development deal with Asarina is 
Ergomed’s second with a Karolinska 
Development spin-out company and 
brings the portfolio of co-development 
programmes to six in total.
Outlook
The current backlog of services contracts 
means Ergomed is well positioned to 
deliver its revenue targets for 2017, 
although the market for clinical research 
out-sourcing remains highly competitive.
Ergomed continues to seek focused 
acquisition opportunities to expand the 
services business. This expansion of our 
profitable service businesses remains the 
core component of Ergomed’s strategy 
and the Board is prioritising this initiative.
We are on track to progress the 
Haemostatix pipeline in 2017 with the start 
of the Phase IIb clinical trial of PeproStat™ 
and the pre-clinical development of 
ReadyFlow™. Our co-development 
business continues to gain traction as we 
seek more partnership opportunities to 
extend our diverse pipeline of 
development projects. Ergomed also 
anticipates further clinical updates from 
its existing partnership with the next 
inflexion point being pivotal Phase III data 
on Zoptrex™ from our co-development 
partner Aeterna Zentaris in April 2017.
Based on our £70 million backlog and the 
opportunities in front of us I think 2017 will 
be another exciting year for Ergomed.
 
Newsflow
2017 2018
 – Ferrer: Phase II insomnia results
 – Haemostatix: PeproStat™ Phase IIb start
 – Aeterna Zentaris: Zoptrex™ Phase III results
 – Asarina: sepranalone Phase IIb start
 – Haemostatix: PeproStat™ Phase IIb results 
 – Modus Therapeutics: Sevuparin Phase II top line results
 – Haemostatix: ReadyFlow™ Phase I ready
 – Haemostatix: PeproStat™ Phase III ready
Co-development deals – target two p.a.
Services acquisitions
PeproStat™/ReadyFlow™ out-licensing opportunities
£9.2m
funds raised
FOUR
acquisitions 
£42m
new business won
£70m
order backlog
