 esure Group Annual Report 2013
2
Chairman’s statement
Introduction
The Group achieved strong, resilient ﬁ nancial results in 2013, 
a year marked by changes, challenges and opportunities. 
A number of milestones were passed; the Group listed on the 
London Stock Exchange and declared its ﬁ rst dividends for 
shareholders. Furthermore, I am proud that the business my 
team and I have built over the past 14 years has progressed 
from a start-up into an innovative business within the FTSE 250. 
Together with a strong, diverse Board and an experienced 
management team, I look forward to realising further the 
potential of the Group.
Motor market developments
Following Motor market rate reductions experienced during most 
of 2012, rates were relatively benign in Q4 2012 and Q1 2013 
and appeared to stabilise. This gave us the conﬁ dence to deliver 
strong policy and premium growth. This pricing stability was, 
however, short lived. Starting in the latter period of Q2 2013, 
Motor insurance customers saw yet more signiﬁ cant price 
reductions. This was most likely caused by insurers taking 
pre-emptive action in anticipation of potential future indemnity 
beneﬁ ts from the Government’s civil justice reforms to tackle 
the UK whiplash epidemic and the Legal Aid, Sentencing and 
Punishment of O ﬀ enders Act 2012, which we collectively refer 
to as the “LASPO Reforms”. 
The full e ﬀ ects of these welcome reforms will take some time to 
come to fruition and, whilst early signs are promising, they are not 
yet clear enough or large enough to justify the signiﬁ cant market 
rating shi   in 2012 and 2013. I believe, however, the esure and 
Sheilas’ Wheels brands are both very well placed to beneﬁ t from 
any future improvements.
The UK Motor insurance market remains cyclical and, in my 
experience, history shows that what the market needs is not 
necessarily what guides individual insurer’s decisions. As a result, 
clear movements in the cycle tend to come when a critical mass 
of companies see their combined operating ratios deteriorate and 
their surplus reserves run dry in the same period. I don’t believe 
the market is quite there yet. For now, however, focusing on 
the Group, given our careful monitoring of risks and prudent 
approach to reserving, I believe we are currently well placed to 
capitalise when conditions change.
Home performance
Our Home book is a key factor in the diversiﬁ cation of our 
income and proﬁ t streams. We started 2013 with over half a 
million customers and added more during the year. Over the 
long term, Home insurance is typically more proﬁ table than 
Motor but more vulnerable to signiﬁ cant, unpredictable 
weather events. Our low risk focus helped our Home 
underwriting performance to remain strong despite both 
the adverse weather in Q4 2013 and the competitive 
pricing conditions.
The esure IPO
esure Group plc listed on the London Stock Exchange on 
27 March 2013. This milestone provided the Group with a 
solid platform to take the Business to the next level within one 
of the World’s most competitive general insurance markets.
At IPO, we paid back all remaining debt from our capital structure 
removing the associated costs of servicing this debt. Our Listing 
also increased the proﬁ le of the esure and Sheilas’ Wheels brands 
and provided an opportunity to introduce share ownership and 
retention schemes for the majority of our sta ﬀ . 
A resilient 
performance in 
tough market 
conditions esure Group Annual Report 2013
3
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Strong management team
The Group’s management team – under the stewardship of 
CEO, Stuart Vann, and CFO, Darren Ogden – demonstrated 
an exemplary collaborative work ethic throughout a year 
of transition. I am proud of their determination to drive 
the Business forward in what have been challenging 
market conditions. 
Financial strength and dividend
The Group has a strong, debt-free ﬁ nancial position, supported 
by a conservative investment portfolio and a prudent 
reserving policy.
The Board has proposed a ﬁ nal dividend of 13.3 pence per 
share. The full year dividend of 15.8 pence per share represents 
an annualised pro forma payout ratio of 85%. The full year 
annualised pro forma dividend comprises a base dividend 
of 50% and a special dividend of 35% of post tax proﬁ ts. 
The annualised pro forma payout ratio has been grossed up 
to reﬂ ect the fact the Group has not been Listed for a full year 
and as such the dividend pence per share represents 5/6ths 
of the full year dividend that would have been paid had the 
Group been Listed for the full year. 
The full year dividend comprises a base dividend of 9.3 pence 
per share and a special dividend of 6.5 pence per share. The 
special dividend has been set with reference to the Group’s 
capital resource requirements, prospective premium growth 
expectations and a prudent margin for contingencies. It is the 
combination of these factors that the Board has examined 
when setting the ﬁ nal dividend that we have announced today.
 
Summary
The Group’s ﬁ nancial results have been delivered against a 
backdrop of tough market conditions and we are well-placed for 
the future. It would not have been possible to achieve the year’s 
signiﬁ cant milestones without the hard work of the management 
team and all our committed sta ﬀ , to whom the Board and I would 
like to express our thanks. Personally, I would also like to thank 
esure and Sheilas’ Wheels customers and to conﬁ rm the Group’s 
commitment to act with integrity and fairness at all times to 
safeguard the trust they place in us.
Peter Wood
Chairman
The Board
Stuart Vann
Chief Executive O ﬃ  cer
Anthony Hobson
Non-Executive Director
Darren Ogden
Chief Finance O ﬃ  cer
Mike Evans
Non-Executive Director
Dame Helen Alexander
Deputy Chairman & Senior 
Independent Director
Peter Ward
Non-Executive Director
Anne Richards
Non-Executive Director
Shirley Garrood
Non-Executive Director
María Dolores Dancausa
Non-Executive Director
Full year dividend per share
15.8 pence
