 esure Group Annual Report 2013
10
Financial performance
Nimble, focused, 
adaptable
We move quickly and adapt to a 
changing market while ensuring 
our customers are at the heart of 
everything we do.
2013 Performance overview
Last year was a landmark in esure Group’s history that included 
a strong and resilient ﬁ nancial and operational performance 
within a competitive and changing market landscape. We 
delivered pro forma earnings per share of 22.4 pence, up by 
5.8% on 2012. Despite signiﬁ cant market rating pressures, the 
Group’s combined operating ratio improved from 92.8% in 
2012 to 89.7% in 2013. Both of these metrics – and many 
others you will read in this document – reﬂ ect the resilience of 
our business model and strategy. We have adapted nimbly to 
changing market conditions while forging strong relationships 
with our customers. 
The Group’s technical approach to risk selection and pricing 
is the bedrock of our ability to underwrite Motor and Home 
insurance business at the right price for our customers. We 
review key metrics with daily, weekly and monthly analysis to 
identify market developments and opportunities which we can 
act upon quickly.
Motor underwriting
In 2013, despite all the market challenges, the Group 
maintained a disciplined underwriting approach while 
beneﬁ ting from two speciﬁ c opportunities: the ﬁ rst full year 
of gender-neutral pricing, and segment re-entry following 
the Group’s withdrawal four years ago.
Chief Executive O ﬃ  cer’s statement
“ 9 out of 10 customers would 
recommend us to a friend.”
0
5
10
15
20
25
2013 2012 2011
10.3
21.1
22.4
5.8
*
%
Earnings per share 
(pro forma) (pence)
* The pro forma earnings per share movement has been 
calculated using the unrounded pro forma earnings per 


 esure Group Annual Report 2013
11
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
Sheilas’ Wheels 
Our Sheilas’ Wheels brand launched in 2005 and grew rapidly 
to become the largest female-focused car insurance brand in 
the UK. This growth was predicated on two key factors – brand 
strength and diﬀ erential pricing by gender. Historical data 
shows that women have less expensive claims than men on 
average. So while the European Court of Justice’s decision to 
outlaw gender pricing has, in our opinion, not been fair for 
all women drivers in the short-term, the Group was able to 
implement the transition for the beneﬁ t of our Sheilas’ Wheels 
customers, and therefore, our Business.
Equalised prices were forecast to favour men more than 
women across the market; however, the female dominant 
Sheilas’ Wheels brand became more competitive for many 
existing customers. 
Following a targeted burst of younger female driver growth 
prior to the gender law taking e ﬀ ect on 21 December 2012, 
we have been able to o ﬀ er keen prices and retain more of 
our existing customers. Our very pink brand has a natural 
attraction within a largely commoditised market place to the 
advantage of our Sheilas’ Wheels customers and our Business.
Segment re-entry and LASPO Reforms
To understand why the Group’s strategy in 2013 was 
particularly e ﬀ ective, it is helpful to understand the 
Group’s recent history. In response to our early sight of 
disproportionately high levels of whiplash claims, we took 
the tough decision in 2009 to withdraw completely from 
some previously proﬁ table segments. In the process, we 
temporarily reduced our in-force policies to protect the 
quality of our book.
Since 2009, the market has signiﬁ cantly re-rated these 
segments, with rates now higher than four years ago. In the 
interim, the Group has improved its data-led underwriting, 
bolstered its internal processes and introduced a new Claims 
System, all with the aim of optimally managing segments 
where personal injury frequency may be an issue. In addition, 
from April 2013, the ﬁ rst LASPO Reforms were introduced, 
putting greater market controls in place. 
I believe these factors presented, and continue to present, 
a unique opportunity given our prior withdrawal. In advance 
of the LASPO Reforms and as they started to take e ﬀ ect, we 
decided to return cautiously to those segments. There have 
been some encouraging early signs that the re-entry segments 
are delivering a positive contribution; however, the LASPO 
Reforms will take time to have their full e ﬀ ect. 
Home underwriting
Our Home underwriting business had a successful year and 
delivered an excellent underwriting result in 2013, despite a 
competitive rating environment and the adverse weather in 
Q4 2013. The adverse weather continued in the early part 
of Q1 2014 and we have taken all steps necessary to assist 
customers who have been a ﬀ ected.
The Group’s Home insurance growth has been delivered 
predominantly through price comparison websites, which 
o ﬀ er homeowners easy ways to compare rates across many 
providers. By encouraging more people to shop around in this 
market, where traditional and mortgage-linked providers are 
still major players, I believe the Group’s competitive Home 
pricing and product quality makes us well-placed to beneﬁ t 
in the future. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
2013 2012 2011
93.5
92.8
89.7
3.1ppts
Combined operating ratio 
(%)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
2013 2012 2011
4.0%
Gross written premiums 
(£m)
499.5
515.0
535.8
0
0.500
1.000
1.500
2.000
2013 2012 2011
9.9%
In-force policies 
(million)
1.653
1.759
1.933 esure Group Annual Report 2013
12
Diversiﬁ ed income streams
esure Group is now a signiﬁ cant player in the UK Motor 
insurance market with room to grow, even within its core 
markets. As part of our diversiﬁ cation strategy, as well as 
having built a signiﬁ cant book of Home business, we o ﬀ er a 
range of additional insurance products, derive income from 
our investment portfolio and receive a share of proﬁ ts from 
our 50% investment in price comparison website Gocompare. 
Together, this gives us a diverse range of income streams. 
During 2013, we also launched an enhancement to our 
Motor additional insurance products with a keenly priced 
combination of four products under the name ‘Just in Case’. 
The attractive price – that includes personal accident beneﬁ t, 
misfuelling cover, lost key cover and car hire – enables us to 
reach more customers with a range of enhanced cover at a 
substantial discount to market prices. I am pleased with the 
customer response to date.
Our customers
As the CEO of one of the leading Motor and Home insurers, 
my focus on a quality business starts and ends with a focus 
on our customers. Our job is ﬁ rst to attract and then, work to 
retain customers. We do this by o ﬀ ering excellent products 
at competitive prices. Each of our sta ﬀ  then works to serve 
those customers fairly and professionally throughout their 
relationship with the Group.
In 2013, an increasing number of our Motor and Home 
customers chose to renew their policies with esure and 
Sheilas’ Wheels, a testament to the service we provide and 
competitive prices we o ﬀ er. High retention, in itself, helps 
support growth within the competitive markets in which we 
operate and nine out of ten customers would recommend us 
to a friend.
Our staﬀ  
Following the IPO, over two thirds of our employees were 
granted shares in esure Group plc and even more beneﬁ t 
from our proﬁ t share scheme. We always look for ways to 
ensure that the interests of sta ﬀ , customers and shareholders 
can be further aligned in the provision of quality products, 
outstanding service and e ﬃ  cient working practices.
Summary
We have moved our business forward signiﬁ cantly in 2013 and 
delivered strong, resilient ﬁ nancial results through hard work 
and our customer-focused strategy.
I encourage all my sta ﬀ  to continually look for new ways to 
improve and adapt for the beneﬁ t of our customers, who are 
at the heart of everything we do. Our marketplace changes 
rapidly, and each year brings new challenges. By remaining 
nimble, focused and adaptable we will continue to rise to 
those challenges for the beneﬁ t of all our sta ﬀ , customers 
and shareholders alike.
2014 Weather update
Claims from the severe weather events in the ﬁ rst quarter of 
2014 are likely to cost the Group £3 million to £4 million more 
than expected. The Group continues to manage the claims in 
a fast and e ﬃ  cient manner to meet the needs of customers 
during their di ﬃ  cult times.
Outlook
The rating environment for both the Motor and Home markets 
remains highly competitive. The Group expects gross written 
premiums in 2014 to be similar to 2013, but may choose 
tactically to reduce or increase premium depending on market 
conditions. As a result, we are targeting a combined operating 
ratio broadly similar to 2013, before adjusting for the impact 
of exceptional Q1 weather and assuming normal weather for 
the remainder of the year. With our nimble and adaptable 
approach, underpinned by our disciplined underwriting, robust 
reserving and strong ﬁ nancial position, we are well placed 
to manage the cycle and poised for proﬁ table growth when 
market conditions permit.
Stuart Vann
Chief Executive O ﬃ  cer
Chief Executive O ﬃ  cer’s statement continued esure Group Annual Report 2013
13
Strategic Report
Governance
Financial Statements
