 Chairman’s statement
Malcolm Harris 
Chairman
6		 |		Annual	report	and	accounts		 |		Overview
Overview
The	Group	has	achieved	excellent	progress	
during	the	past	year,	especially	in	the	context	
of	a	challenging	market	environment.	
Mortgage	availability	continued	to	be	
heavily	constrained,	particularly	in	respect	
of	first	time	buyers.	Consumer	confidence	
was	adversely	affected	due	to	rising	
unemployment,	high	inflation	and	ongoing	
political	and	economic	issues	within	Europe.
The Group’s profitability has increased significantly in 2011 
with the benefit of increasing revenue, strong cost control and 
an increase in sales outlets.
The future profit potential of the Group’s land bank continues 
to be improved with further high quality land investments 
in the year improving both the consented and strategic 
land holdings. The drive to improve the efficiency of capital 
employed was assisted by land sales and strong control over 
work in progress.
The consented land investments made by the Group in the 
last two years have increased the number of active sales 
outlets and positioned the Group to be able to significantly 
grow returns in 2012 and beyond, based on current market 
conditions continuing.
Whilst the trading environment is expected to remain 
challenging during 2012, the Group welcomes the 
Government’s initiatives for the housing market and, in 
particular, is encouraged by the Government backed mortgage 
indemnity scheme, which will hopefully unlock the ability of 
aspiring homeowners to get onto the housing ladder.
Financial position
Profit before tax increased by 74% to £32.1 million as a result 
of a greater number of legal completions at an increased 
average sales price and an improved profit margin. With a 
strong balance sheet with net cash of £50.8 million, the Group 
has an excellent platform from which to grow significantly the 
returns to our shareholders.
Earnings per share and dividends
Earnings per share for the year have grown by 65% to 
17.5p. Consistent with the intention to increase dividends 
progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will 
be recommending a final dividend of 3.5p per share, which, 
when combined with the 2011 interim dividend of 1.5p, totals 
5.0p for the year. The final dividend will be payable on 25 May 
2012 to shareholders on the register on 30 March 2012. It is 
the Board’s intention to continue to pursue this progressive 
dividend approach.
People
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank all of the 
employees of Bovis Homes for their efforts and commitment 
during another challenging year. The Board would also like to 
extend its thanks to our subcontractors and suppliers.
Corporate governance
Bovis Homes is committed to the highest standards of 
corporate governance, including those related to the role 
and effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the 
UK Corporate Governance Code. Details are set out in the 
corporate governance section on pages 31 to 37.
Corporate responsibility
I am pleased to report good progress against the targets 
laid out within our Corporate Social Responsibility report, 
in particular the improvements in our health and safety 
performance, a critical area where the Group will continue 
to target improvements. This progress has once again been 
recognised by the Group’s inclusion in the independently 
assessed FTSE4Good Index.
Summary
Bovis Homes has delivered a strong result in 2011 and is 
excellently positioned to build returns into 2012 and beyond, 
with its quality land assets, robust balance sheet and strong 
growth potential.
 
Malcolm	Harris	
Chairman Bovis	Homes	Group	PLC		 |		7
The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2011 with 
improved profitability and in positioning the Group for growth
Abbotswood 
Romsey, Hampshire
