 04 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
Chairman’s statement
Introduction 
2016 has been a significant and positive year for the Group 
as we continue to deliver value to all our stakeholders. 
We have exceeded our growth expectations for the year 
with gross written premiums up 19% to £655m through 
enhancements to our underwriting capabilities and by 
taking advantage of favourable market conditions in 
Motor; demerged Gocompare.com from the Group ('the 
Demerger') to allow both businesses to thrive and reach 
their full potential; and further strengthened our robust 
capital position providing us with the capital flexibility to 
continue our growth ambitions and deliver strong returns. 
Insurance
We have always said that we will only grow when we 
believe it is profitable to do so and throughout 2016 the 
favourable rating environment in Motor allowed us to grow 
strongly, albeit the Home insurance market continued to 
be challenging. The management team remain focused in 
delivering the Group’s growth strategy through initiatives, 
such as footprint expansion, in a controlled manner and I 
believe they continue to make the right decisions in dynamic 
market conditions. We are encouraged that the Government 
continues to explore options to lower whiplash claims costs 
which in turn could lead to lower premiums for customers, 
although we are mindful of the recent change in the Ogden 
discount rate to minus 0.75% and the impact this could have 
on customer premiums across the market. 
Demerger of Gocompare.com
On 3 November 2016, Gocompare.com demerged 
from the Group and listed on the London Stock Exchange. 
Since acquiring full control of Gocompare.com in early 
2015 the Group successfully repositioned the business and 
strengthened its management team with the introduction of 
Matthew Crummack as chief executive officer in June 2016. 
The return of Gio Compario reinvigorated Gocompare.com’s 
marketing proposition; an expense review addressed the 
cost base; and focus was given to the many opportunities 
available to Gocompare.com to grow outside of its core 
markets. Both esure and Gocompare.com are now 
positioned to thrive and reach their full potential and 
we wish the new management team at Gocompare.com 
well for the future.
Sir Peter Wood / Chairman
'2016 has been a significant and positive year for the Group. 
Premiums are ahead of expectations; Gocompare.com has been 
demerged allowing both businesses to thrive and reach their full 
potential; capital is at the top of our risk appetite; and we have 
once again paid a special dividend, demonstrating the Board's 
commitment to return excess capital to shareholders.' Strategic Report Governance Financials
05 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
Capital and dividends 
The Group’s capital coverage above its solvency capital 
requirement has always been appropriate for the business 
that we are, and continue to be, a low risk personal lines 
insurer. As part of the Demerger, the Group received a 
dividend from Gocompare.com that further strengthened 
its robust capital position. The Group’s capital position is 
at the upper end of our risk appetite, after allowing for the 
final dividend that is inclusive of a special element, and 
gives us the capital flexibility to pursue further profitable 
growth opportunities.
The Board has recommended a final dividend of 10.5 pence 
per share, and in conjunction with the interim dividend of 3.0 
pence per share, gives a full year dividend of 13.5 pence per 
share representing a payout ratio of 70% of underlying profit 
after tax. Since the Group became public in 2013, the Board 
has returned £240m to shareholders through dividends, 
underpinning the Board’s commitment to return excess 
capital to shareholders.
Board
Once again the Board have demonstrated the value 
that their wealth of experience and knowledge bring 
to our Group and I would like to thank them for their 
input throughout the year. We have benefitted from a 
year of relatively little change after Anne Richards left us in 
February 2016 and I am delighted that Peter Shaw and Alan 
Rubenstein joined the Board in March 2017, giving us further 
strength and depth. Peter Ward will be stepping down from 
the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2017 after 
many years of great service and I would like to thank him for 
his support, challenge and wisdom across the years.
Summary 
2016 has been a significant and positive year for the 
Group and this would not have been possible without the 
hard work and dedication of all our colleagues across the 
business. I believe the Group is well positioned to carry on 
with this positive momentum and I look forward to the 
future with great confidence.
Sir Peter Wood
Chairman
GOCOMPARE.COM
2006
Founded by a team of insurance  
comparison experts
2007
Joint venture with esure alongside  
a start-up loan to fund marketing and growth
2009
Gocompare.com reports first profit  
of £12m. Gio Compario takes to the stage
2010
Start-up loan repaid and esure acquires stake
2011–2014
Highly profitable and cash-generative  
business with £54m paid in dividends
2014
esure announces acquisition of remaining 50% stake
2015
Business repositioned: cost base addressed;  
Gio Compario returns; focus on growth with development 
of new products
2016
New management team announced
3 Nov
Demerger from esure Group. 
Profit generated up to the Demerger net of tax of £19.2m 
(this is included in the Group's underlying profit after tax).
