 12 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
'We are now in full growth mode.'
'In 2016 we have delivered strong growth in premiums and profitability, and have 
provided more quotes to a wider number of customers through our footprint expansion 
programme. This gives us great confidence to deliver our ambition of 3 million in-force 
policies by 2020.' 
'We continue to focus on and control carefully our approach to underwriting, underpinned 
by our enhanced customer contribution modelling.'
'As a result, we are on track to deliver increased value to shareholders both in 2017 
and beyond.'
Introduction
What a year 2016 has been. We have exceeded our 
gross written premium expectations for the year with 
growth of 19%; increased underlying profit by 18% and 
profit from continuing operations by 19%; successfully 
demerged Gocompare.com; and returned excess capital 
to shareholders through special dividends while 
maintaining sufficient capital flexibility to carry on 
our growth ambitions in 2017 and beyond. 
Focus
2016 has been a year of growth through focused 
underwriting. We added nearly 200,000 in-force policies 
to the business and momentum continues to build in our 
footprint expansion programmes with the launch of a further 
12 segments in Motor towards the end of the year. Through 
enhancements to our underwriting capabilities we are now 
able to quote for 70–80% of the Motor market, without 
materially moving the dial on risk, giving us great 
opportunities to deliver our ambition of 3 million in-force 
policies by 2020.
In Motor, our customer contribution modelling continues 
to evolve. With regular and detailed monitoring we are able 
to make more informed value-based decisions on a daily 
basis. Through a customer contribution approach we are able 
to offer competitive prices to customers allowing them to 
benefit from our great products and service throughout their 
time with the Group, while generating value for the business. 
The Home market remains challenging, in particular the 
rating environment on price comparison websites, and we 
do not believe market conditions are conducive to growth 
at this time. Adverse weather events in the early part of 
the year, along with flash flooding in June, impacted the 
profitability of the market and our portfolio, and we have 
taken corrective action on the portfolio as we look to improve 
the underwriting performance of the account. Despite this, 
Home remained a key contributor to the Group in 2016. 
Control 
We remain committed to only growing when we believe 
it is profitable to do so, rather than for vanity, and our 
ambition is to reach three million in-force policies by 2020, 
underpinned by this philosophy. 
There is an acquisition cost to growth, however through 
our enhanced contribution analysis, great service and 
strong customer retention, we are confident our growth 
will deliver value. 
Stuart Vann / Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s statement Strategic Report Governance Financials
13 esure Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2016
Effective claims management and expense efficiency 
provide the foundations to deliver increased value and 
our counter fraud capabilities continue to lead the way 
across the market. Over the past three years the Group has 
utilised device profiling to deter 'ghost broking' with great 
success and this would not have been possible without our 
collaborative and innovative approaches across the business. 
Our low risk approach to underwriting and conservative 
reinsurance programme mitigated much of our exposure to 
the change in the Ogden discount rate and leaves us well 
placed within the market compared to our peers.
Scale
Investment in our infrastructure is ongoing to ensure we 
have agile, flexible and scalable systems in place to meet 
ever changing customer preferences. Our digital market 
place remains focused on price comparison website 
distribution and improvements to our online customer 
journey have improved new business sale conversion and 
our customer experience. There is plenty more to come. 
Colleagues 
We strive to make esure a great place to work as it is our 
colleagues who are fundamental to our success. In 2016, 
we have implemented a new pay and reward framework; 
invested in our talent; and our first employee sharesave 
scheme vested, allowing colleagues to share in the success 
of the business.
Summary & Outlook
2016 has been a year of strong growth and I am confident 
this will deliver value over the coming years. As we look out 
into 2017, assuming stable market conditions and normal 
weather, we continue to expect strong growth in both 
premiums and in-force policies at 15–20% and 5–10%, 
respectively; the combined operating ratio to be in the 
region of 96–98%; and our Non-underwritten additional 
services revenues are forecast to grow ahead of in-force 
policies in line with the trend seen in the second half 
of 2016.
Our performance in 2017 and beyond will be driven by the 
hard work of all our colleagues across the business and I 
would like to thank them for their commitment and 
dedication in helping us to deliver our ambitions.
Stuart Vann
Chief Executive Officer
Matt Gilham / Head of Financial Crime
Counter Fraud
What is esure’s approach to counter fraud?
We follow a risk-based, proactive strategy with 
a robust stance taken to deter and take action 
against proven fraud. We have well established 
counter fraud systems and controls and target 
market-leading performance. We invest in pioneering 
solutions where there is financial benefit, competitive 
advantage or a need to mitigate against an evolving 
fraudulent activity.
How do you operate within the business?
Fraud is controlled through the close collaboration 
of a core expert team of 35 colleagues, with further 
support across Risk, Underwriting, Claims and 
Operations to counter fraud activity. 
What were the key achievements in 2016?
We improved our predictive analytics; stepped up 
our device-profiling capabilities across multiple 
customer touch points; and enhanced our automated 
processes to detect policy fraud. 
How do you work with the rest of the sector?
We are active in collaborating with law enforcement 
and the Insurance Fraud Bureau, with a number of 
cases under investigation. Applying sanction action 
on serious fraud remains a key deterrent and one of 
the team’s priorities while protecting the majority of 
our honest customer base.
What next? 
We will remain a pioneer in fraud prevention through 
innovation. In a constantly changing environment 
our approach to mitigate and deter fraudulent 
activity will be key.
