 As 	 founder 	 of 	 esure 	 Group 	 a nd 	 Chairman, 	 I 	 am 	 pleased	 
to 	 report 	 that 	 the 	 Group 	 deliv ered 	 a 	 tr ading 	 profit	 of 	 £92.3	
million 	 in 	 2015, 	 competing 	 well 	 in 	 competitiv e 	 mark ets.
Marketplace
2015 has been a mixed year for general insurers but one 
with 	 dev elopments 	 which 	 I 	 believ e 	 will 	 help 	 the 	 Group	
progress in future years.
In 	 Motor , 	 there 	 ha v e 	 been 	 positiv e 	 signs 	 that 	 r ates 	 are	
impro ving, 	 f ollowing 	 a 	 challenging 	 claims 	 en vironment.	 
The 	 Go v ernment 	 a nnouncement 	 that 	 it 	 will 	 end 	 the 	 right	 
to 	 cash 	 compensation 	 f or 	 minor 	 whiplash 	 injuries 	 a nd 	 r aise	
the upper limit for the small claims court is positive and  
we 	 will 	 be 	 working 	 with 	 the 	 Go v ernment 	 to 	 ensure 	 this	 
is implemented effectively.
In 	 Home, 	 pressure 	 remains 	 on 	 pricing 	 as 	 competitors	 
look to enter the market or maintain their market share 
and 	 profitability 	 has 	 been 	 aff ected 	 a cross 	 the 	 industry 	 b y	
the 	 sev ere 	 weather 	 ev ents 	 seen 	 la te 	 in 	 the 	 y ea r .
Our performance
T urning 	 to 	 our 	 results 	 in 	 more 	 detail, 	 despite 	 these	
challenging 	 mark et 	 conditions 	 we 	 ha v e 	 deliv ered 	 a 	 tr ading	
profit	 of 	 £92.3 	 million. 	 Gross 	 written 	 premiums 	 increased	
to 	 £550.3 	 million 	 a s 	 a 	 result 	 of 	 the 	 growth 	 of 	 in-force	
policies 	 to 	 o v er 	 two 	 million 	 a nd 	 an 	 increa se 	 in 	 r ates.	 
The 	 Group 	 is 	 f ocused 	 on 	 its 	 underwriting 	 performance	 
and continues to expand its footprints in Motor and  
Home to offer more customers our excellent products  
and services.
Peter Wood
Chairman
2015 in summary
• T r ading 	 profit	 of 	 £92.3 	 million 	 deliv ered	
in 2015.
• The 	 B oard 	 has 	 recommended 	 a 	 final 	 
d i v i d e n d 	 of 	 7.3 	 pence 	 per 	 sha re,	 
taking the total dividend to 11.5 pence  
per share for the year .
• Motor claims environment challenging  
i n 	 2 0 1 5 ; 	 howev er , 	 r ates 	 ha v e 	 seen	 
some improvement and continue  
to 	 mo v e 	 upw ards.
• W e 	 are 	 well 	 placed 	 f or 	 the 	 f uture	 
and 	 esure 	 Group 	 is 	 now 	 entering	 
a 	 growth 	 phase.
Controlled growth  
in a competitive market
esure Group Annual Report 2015
4 Chairman’s statement What is happening with Solvency II?
W e 	 completed 	 our 	 final	 prepar ations 	 f or 	 the 	 introduction	 
of 	 Solv ency 	 II 	 in 	 2015, 	 which 	 came 	 into 	 force 	 on 	 1 	 J anuary	
2016. Our insurance business has a good capital position that 
is appropriate for our strategic plans in 2016 and beyond. 
What do the changes to payments for whiplash  
claims mean for esure Group?
The Government proposals announced in October should  
end 	 the 	 right 	 to 	 cash 	 compensation 	 f or 	 minor 	 whiplash 	 injuries	
and look to raise the upper limit for the small claims court  
for 	 personal 	 injury 	 claims 	 from 	 £1,000 	 to 	 £5,000. 	 These 	 mo v es	
will 	 ensure 	 tha t 	 those 	 who 	 a re 	 injured 	 continue 	 to 	 receiv e	
appropriate 	 treatment 	 a nd 	 will 	 help 	 deter 	 those 	 individuals	
who 	 a ttempt 	 to 	 defr aud 	 insurers. 	 This 	 is 	 welcome 	 news	 
and 	 the 	 changes, 	 which 	 are 	 due 	 to 	 come 	 into 	 f orce 	 in 	 201 7 ,	
should 	 mean 	 significant	 cost 	 sa vings 	 f or 	 consumers	
purchasing motor insurance.
What has been happening to motor prices?
The 	 r ating 	 cy cle 	 in 	 gener al 	 insur ance, 	 in 	 particular 	 motor ,	
has 	 a 	 significant	 impact 	 on 	 the 	 industry 	 and 	 has 	 finally 	
started to improve. We have remained disciplined 
throughout 	 2015, 	 increasing 	 prices 	 as 	 we 	 look 	 to 	 mitiga te	
rising claims costs. The signs are positive and esure Group 
is 	 well 	 placed 	 to 	 ma ximise 	 the 	 opportunities 	 the 	 impro ving	
r ate 	 en vironment 	 will 	 bring.
Q
A
Q
A
Our people
In 	 2015, 	 we 	 f urther 	 strengthened 	 the 	 oper a tional 	 ma na gement	
team 	 with 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 senior 	 hires 	 who 	 will 	 work 	 with 	 S tuart	
and 	 his 	 ex ecutiv e 	 team 	 to 	 driv e 	 the 	 business 	 f orw ard 	 o v er	 
the 	 coming 	 y ears. 	 I 	 welcome 	 them 	 and 	 our 	 other 	 new 	 recruits	
and 	 would 	 lik e 	 to 	 sa y 	 thank 	 y ou 	 f or 	 the 	 hard 	 work 	 of 	 all	 
our 	 colleagues 	 across 	 the 	 Group , 	 who 	 I 	 know 	 are 	 dedicated	 
to our customers and making our business a success.
Peter Wood
Chairman
Q&A
W e 	 were 	 delighted 	 to 	 complete 	 the 	 acquisition 	 of	
Gocompare.com 	 in 	 March 	 and 	 I 	 am 	 pleased 	 with 	 progress	 
so far . The relaunch of Gio Compario has already reinvigorated 
the 	 br and 	 and 	 our 	 attention 	 now 	 turns 	 to 	 deliv ering 	 growth	
across all product lines in the future.
Our 	 goal 	 is, 	 as 	 ev er , 	 to 	 pro vide 	 a 	 good 	 lev el 	 of 	 return 	 f or	
shareholders 	 and 	 I 	 am 	 pleased 	 to 	 confirm	 the 	 B oard 	 ha s	
recommended 	 a 	 final	 dividend 	 of 	 7.3 	 pence 	 per 	 share.	 
This 	 together 	 with 	 the 	 interim 	 dividend 	 of 	 4.2 	 pence 	 tak es	
the full year dividend to 11.5 pence per share representing  
a 	 pa y out 	 r a tio 	 of 	 70% 	 of 	 underlying 	 profit	 af ter 	 tax.	 
The 	 pa y out 	 reflects	 our 	 str ategy 	 of 	 retaining 	 capita l 	 when	 
we 	 see 	 good 	 growth 	 opportunities. 	 Through 	 reta ining 	 profit, 	 
the 	 Group 	 rema ins 	 well 	 capitalised 	 and 	 is 	 well 	 positioned	 
f or 	 this 	 growth.
Our Board
As 	 Cha irman 	 of 	 the 	 B oard, 	 I 	 am 	 committed 	 to 	 ensuring	 
the highest levels of governance and expertise. Our Board 
continues to do an excellent job of providing leadership and 
o v erseeing 	 the 	 direction 	 of 	 the 	 business 	 and 	 I 	 would 	 lik e	 
to take this opportunity to thank them all for their input.
D uring 	 the 	 y ea r 	 we 	 ha v e 	 seen 	 a 	 number 	 of 	 changes	
including the departures of Dame Helen Alexander and 
Anthon y 	 Hobson, 	 both 	 of 	 whom 	 stepped 	 down 	 a t 	 our 	 AGM,	
Mik e 	 Ev ans, 	 who 	 left 	 in 	 A ugust, 	 a nd 	 A nne 	 Richards, 	 who	 
stood 	 down 	 in 	 F ebruary 	 2016 	 f ollowing 	 her 	 a ppointment	 
as 	 CEO 	 of 	 M& G 	 In v estments. 	 I 	 would 	 lik e 	 to 	 thank 	 them	 
for their support over the years; they have been invaluable 
in offering guidance and challenge. As a result of Dame Helen 
Alexander 	 stepping 	 down, 	 Shirley 	 Garrood, 	 a 	 member 	 of 	 the	
B oard 	 since 	 2013, 	 w as 	 appointed 	 as 	 the 	 Senior 	 Independent	
D irector 	 in 	 Ma y 	 and 	 D eput y 	 Chairman 	 in 	 June.
W e 	 ha v e 	 welcomed 	 two 	 new 	 Non-Ex ecutiv e 	 D irectors,	 
Ma rtin 	 Pik e 	 and 	 Angela 	 Seymour - Jackson, 	 in 	 A ugust 	 and	
October respectively. Martin and Angela both bring further 
expertise 	 to 	 our 	 B oard 	 and 	 I 	 look 	 f orw ard 	 to 	 working 	 with	
them over the coming years.
Q
A
esure Group Annual Report 2015
5
Strategic Report Governance Financial 	 Statements
