 Introduction
2015 has been a year of steady progression on our strategic 
pla ns 	 against 	 a 	 backdrop 	 of 	 challenging, 	 y et 	 impro ving, 	 mark et	
conditions; 	 with 	 our 	 focus 	 on 	 building 	 esure 	 Group 	 f or 	 the	
f uture, 	 we 	 ha v e 	 deliv ered 	 a 	 tr ading 	 profit	 of 	 £92.3 	 million.
W e 	 ha v e 	 seen 	 growth 	 in 	 both 	 our 	 total 	 customer 	 base 	 a nd	
premium 	 income, 	 a nd 	 ha v e 	 tak en 	 a 	 controlled 	 approach 	 to	
customer 	 expansion. 	 R ates 	 are 	 now 	 mo ving 	 up 	 and 	 we 	 are 	 well	
placed 	 to 	 benefit	 f rom 	 better 	 mark et 	 conditions 	 in 	 the 	 f uture.
Our 	 combined 	 oper ating 	 r atio 	 of 	 97.8% 	 is 	 higher 	 than 	 2014,	
with 	 a n 	 impro v ement 	 in 	 the 	 current 	 y ear 	 loss 	 r atio , 	 more	 
than offset by the reduction in favourable development of 
prior accident year reserves from the exceptional levels seen  
in 	 2014. 	 Without 	 the 	 weather 	 ev ents 	 seen 	 in 	 D ecember 	 la st	
y ear 	 that 	 cost 	 the 	 Group 	 £4 	 million, 	 the 	 combined 	 oper ating	
r atio 	 would 	 ha v e 	 been 	 in 	 the 	 r ange 	 of 	 96-97% 	 a s 	 outlined	 
in the 2015 third quarter Interim Management Statement.  
W e 	 fully 	 support 	 the 	 review 	 of 	 personal 	 injury 	 costs 	 a nnounced	
in 	 the 	 Chancellor’ s, 	 A utumn 	 statement, 	 and 	 will 	 work 	 with	 
the 	 Go v ernment 	 and 	 industry 	 bodies 	 to 	 ensure 	 the 	 review	 
is 	 successful 	 and 	 implemented 	 in 	 the 	 most 	 effectiv e 	 w a y	 
for customers.
Gocompare.com
In 	 March, 	 we 	 a cquired 	 Gocompare.com. 	 The 	 business 	 is 	 an	
online destination of choice for consumers looking to shop 
around 	 f or 	 good 	 v a lue 	 and 	 suitable 	 products 	 a cross 	 financial 	
services, 	 telecoms, 	 energy 	 and 	 much 	 more 	 a nd 	 contributed	
£20.2 	 million 	 to 	 our 	 tr ading 	 profit	 o v er 	 the 	 course 	 of 	 the 	 y ear .	
The 	 business 	 of fers 	 comparison 	 services 	 on 	 o v er 	 40 	 products,	
and 	 with 	 br and 	 recognition 	 a t 	 an 	 extremely 	 high 	 93%, 	 we 	 are	
well 	 placed 	 for 	 further 	 growth. 	 Since 	 April, 	 when 	 we 	 took 	 full	
control, 	 we 	 ha v e 	 brought 	 back 	 the 	 established 	 Gio 	 Compario	
adv ertising 	 and 	 impro v ed 	 efficiency	 in 	 the 	 business.
Stuart Vann
Chief 	 Ex ecutiv e 	 Officer
2015 in summary
• 2015 	 sa w 	 controlled 	 growth 	 in 	 both 	 motor	 
and 	 home 	 written 	 premiums 	 a nd 	 customer	
numbers to maximise shareholder value.
• F ootprint 	 expansion 	 under 	 w a y 	 meaning	 
our 	 products 	 a re 	 now 	 a v aila ble 	 to 	 a 	 much	
wider 	 customer 	 base.
• F ollowing 	 a 	 period 	 of 	 disciplined 	 growth	 
in 	 motor , 	 r a tes 	 are 	 now 	 mo ving 	 upw ards	 
and 	 we 	 are 	 well 	 pla ced 	 to 	 capita lise.
• Completed acquisition of Gocompare.com 
in 	 Ma rch 	 bringing 	 one 	 of 	 the 	 UK’ s 	 best	
known 	 financial	 br ands 	 into 	 the 	 Group .
• F ollowing 	 the 	 acquisition, 	 f ocus 	 has	 
turned 	 to 	 driving 	 efficiencies	 and 	 growth	 
in Gocompare.com.
Good progress  
on our strategy
Chief 	 Ex ecutiv e 	 Officer ’ s 	 statement
esure Group Annual Report 2015
6 What other strategic developments  
is the business working on?
We are looking at a number of areas of strategic development 
that aim to grow our customer base, increase profits  
and deliver our strategy of increased shareholder value.  
These include digital and self serve capability, further 
automation of our systems, how we can best use data  
to assist customers, and our multicar proposition. 
What is your outlook for 2016?
2016 will no doubt bring fresh challenges; however , I am 
confident in our business model. With our strategic initiatives 
coming into force, a focus on great customer service, 
diversification opportunities in Gocompare.com, plus  
a motivated workforce I believe esure Group will continue  
to deliver profitable growth over the medium-term  
and long-term to our shareholders.
What is your underwriting footprint  
expansion initiative?
The Group has historically targeted around 40% of the 
market in home and motor insurance. We believe with 
our high level of underwriting and pricing expertise  
we are well positioned to expand our appetite to new 
customers in a controlled and measured way. 
A
Q
A
Q
A
Q&A
People
Investment in our people is fundamental to our success and 
we aim to make esure Group a great place to work for all of 
our colleagues. Our people strategy is built upon a competitive 
reward and benefits package, a high level of colleague 
engagement, and career progression.
Everyone from our front-line staff to colleagues in support  
and specialist areas is important in ensuring we meet 
customers’ needs and during 2015 we partnered with Willis 
Towers Watson to survey every member of staff to find out 
their views on working at the Group, which has given us an 
excellent level of insight. Going forward, this will be 
undertaken on a yearly basis.
Outlook
We are in a strong position to deliver on our strategic 
objective of growing our insurance business and to take 
advantage of the opportunities presented through an improving 
Motor market. 2016 has got off to a good start and we  
expect to deliver gross written premium growth of 10-15% 
and policy growth of 4-6%. The combined operating ratio in 
Motor and Home is expected to be in the region of 97-98%. 
Gocompare.com is already benefitting from our full ownership 
and we expect the business to achieve an increase in 
profitability of 20-30% in 2016.
Summary
Looking back over 2015, we have progressed well against  
our strategic priorities. Looking ahead, we are now in  
a strong position for this year and thereafter . I would like  
to thank our customers, shareholders and colleagues for  
their continued support.
Stuart Vann
Chief Executive Officer
Our commitment to innovation is demonstrated in the launch 
of the midata initiative, which enables consumers to make 
meaningful comparisons on current accounts based on their 
own experience. This is an industry first which no other 
comparison site offers.
Gocompare.com’s comparison services are run on an 
independent basis, ensuring that it continues to be a highly 
regarded partner for the insurance industry, along with its 
other business partners.
Motor
In Motor , we have seen growth in written premiums and 
customer numbers. Competition has remained high but we 
have been able to implement rate increases, which we expect  
to continue to do in 2016. Latterly in the year , we launched 
further growth initiatives which will see us quoting for a more 
diverse selection of risks, meaning we will be able to provide 
cover for more motorists.
Home
Our Home customer base and premium income have 
remained steady year-on-year as we have chosen not to 
grow this line of business whilst pressure on rates continues. 
We insure over 500,000 homes across the UK, and similarly 
to Motor , we are in the early days of expanding our  
footprint and in future will be offering competitive prices  
for more households.
We had a small number of customers affected by the storms 
at the end of the year and exposure was relatively limited  
for us. We have focused on ensuring our customer claims 
are dealt with quickly and with an excellent level of care.
Customer
Customer service remains high on the agenda and as we 
evolve we look for ways to constantly improve our customer 
experience. Our retention rate of 80% shows a high level  
of satisfaction amongst our customers as they choose to stay 
with the Group year-on-year and continue to benefit from 
our good value, high quality products. This year , we have 
introduced a new Net Promoter Score
TM
, which measures 
customer satisfaction, and provides insightful information  
on which to build our proposition in 2016 and beyond.
Q
esure Group Annual Report 2015
7
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Gocompare.com
Gocompare.com 	 does 	 not 	 charge 	 people 	 to 	 use 	 its 	 services,	
and 	 it 	 does 	 not 	 accept 	 adv ertising 	 or 	 sponsored 	 listings,	 
so all product comparisons are fair and unbiased. The company 
makes its money through fees paid by the providers of 
products 	 that 	 appea r 	 on 	 its 	 v arious 	 comparison 	 services 	 when	
a customer buys through the site. 
When 	 it 	 launched 	 in 	 2006, 	 it 	 w as 	 the 	 first	 comparison 	 site 	 to	
f ocus 	 on 	 displa ying 	 policy 	 details 	 r ather 	 than 	 just 	 listing 	 prices,	
with 	 the 	 a im 	 of 	 helping 	 people 	 to 	 mak e 	 better -informed	
decisions 	 when 	 buying 	 their 	 v arious 	 insur ance 	 policies.	
Gocompare.com has remained dedicated to helping people 
choose the most appropriate products rather than just the 
cheapest 	 and 	 to 	 this 	 end 	 it 	 has 	 teamed 	 up 	 with 	 D efa qto ,	 
the 	 independent 	 financial	 researcher , 	 to 	 integr ate 	 additional	
policy information into a number of its insurance comparison 
services. 	 This 	 a llows 	 people 	 to 	 compare 	 up 	 to 	 an 	 extr a	
30 features of cover .
As 	 well 	 as 	 this, 	 Gocompare.com 	 has 	 introduced 	 customer	
reviews 	 from 	 R eviews.co .uk 	 so 	 that 	 users 	 of 	 its 	 services 	 can	
see 	 wha t 	 other 	 customers 	 think 	 of 	 pro viders’ 	 policies 	 and	
service. This gives Gocompare.com’s customers as full a 
picture 	 as 	 possible, 	 helping 	 them 	 to 	 mak e 	 the 	 right 	 decision.	
Gocompare.com 	 is 	 the 	 only 	 comparison 	 website 	 to 	 be 	 in vited	
to join the British Insurance Brokers’ Association (BIBA)  
and 	 is 	 authorised 	 and 	 regulated 	 b y 	 the 	 Financial 	 Conduct	
A uthorit y 	 (FCA).
Through 	 a 	 f ocus 	 on 	 cost 	 ef ficiencies,	 expansion 	 of 	 non-core	
business lines outside home and motor insurance and 
continued 	 high 	 br and 	 a w a reness, 	 Gocompare.com 	 represents	
an 	 ex cellent 	 growth 	 opportunit y 	 f or 	 the 	 Group .	
Advertising
In 2015 Gocompare.com reintroduced its adverts fronted by 
Gio 	 Compario , 	 the 	 iconic 	 moustachioed 	 tenor 	 and 	 compa rison	
enthusiast. 	 The 	 adv ert, 	 which 	 debuted 	 with 	 a 	 special	
90-second 	 v ersion 	 on 	 26 	 July 	 a nd 	 r an 	 for 	 a 	 number 	 of	
months, 	 has 	 resulted 	 in 	 extremely 	 high 	 br and 	 recognition	
for Gocompare.com
Gocompare.com is a price 
c o m p a r i s o n 	 website 	 (PCW) 	 that	
enables people to compare the 
costs 	 and 	 f eatures 	 of 	 a 	 wide	 
v a riet y 	 of 	 insur ance 	 policies,	
financial	 products, 	 broadband	
deals, 	 energy 	 tarif fs 	 and 	 holida ys.
Summary
• Gocompare.com 	 is 	 one 	 of 	 the 	 UK’ s 	 top 	 fina ncial 	
services brands and a leading price comparison 
website, 	 of fering 	 consumers 	 a 	 con v enient	 
w a y 	 to 	 compare 	 and 	 buy 	 both 	 financial	 and	
non-financial	 products. 	 The 	 site 	 w as 	 visited	 
46 million times in 2015.
• Gocompare.com 	 w as 	 launched 	 in 	 No v ember	
2006 	 and 	 it 	 w a s 	 the 	 first	 comparison 	 site	 
to focus on displaying product features rather 
than just listing prices.
• In 2007 esure Group bought an option to 
purchase 	 a 	 50% 	 holding 	 in 	 Gocompare.com,	
which 	 w as 	 ex ercised 	 in 	 2010. 	 W e 	 acquired	 
the remaining 50% in March 2015 to make 
Gocompare.com 	 a 	 fully 	 owned 	 subsidia ry	 
of esure Group.
• Gocompare.com features over 40 products 
which 	 customers 	 can 	 compare 	 including	
insur ance, 	 loans, 	 credit 	 cards, 	 broadband,	
utilities and travel.
*	 A v er age 	 for 	 customers 	 who 	 bought 	 car 	 insur a nce, 	 2006-2015.
** 	 	 Source: 	 Hall 	 & 	 P a rtners 	 ad 	 & 	 br and 	 tr ack er 	 Q3 	 2015.
esure Group Annual Report 2015
8
Gocompare Ad 	 a w areness Average saving  
on car insurance
 No .1
**
among our competitors
£137
*
esure Group Annual Report 2015
Strategic Report Governance Financial 	 Statements
9
