 Chairman’s statement
Malcolm Harris 
Chairman
6		 |		 Annual	report	and	accounts		 |		 Overview
Overview
Bovis	Homes	has	made	excellent	progress	
during	2012	with	a	significant	increase	in	
profit	and	a	material	improvement	in	returns	
for	shareholders.
The Group has successfully deployed a growth strategy for the 
last four years following the housing market downturn. This is 
delivering significant benefits to the Group, despite operating 
in a tough economic climate and experiencing a difficult 
mortgage market.
The Board is, however, confident of future growth based on 
the excellent investments already made and on the assumption 
of an ongoing stable housing market. Future growth in 
shareholder returns is therefore not reliant on a housing 
market recovery.
The economic backdrop remains challenging and the housing 
market continues to face constraints on activity, primarily due 
to the restricted availability of mortgage finance especially for 
first time buyers struggling to raise the necessary deposit to 
allow them to participate in the market. Consumer confidence 
remains fragile after the negative impacts from the Euro crisis, 
UK corporate failures and recessionary GDP concerns. As a 
result, house prices remain subdued with nominal house  
price stability. 
Against this external backdrop, the performance of Bovis 
Homes has been very strong. The Group is now benefiting 
from the compound positive effects of stronger volumes, 
higher average sales price and significantly improving  
profit margins. This in turn is providing a strong impetus  
to both profits and shareholder returns.
Financial performance
The Group delivered a 68% increase in profits before taxation 
to £54.1 million and increased return on capital employed by 
2.7 ppts to 7.7% in 2012. Revenue increased by 17% and the 
operating margin improved from 10.0% in 2011 to 13.4%  
in 2012. These results demonstrate clearly the growth in  
the business. The Group continues to be well capitalised with 
a strong balance sheet with net cash at the end of 2012 of 
£18.8 million.
Earnings per share and dividends
Basic earnings per share for the year have grown by 75%  
to 30.7p. Consistent with the intention to increase dividends 
progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will  
be recommending a final dividend of 6.0p per share, which, 
when combined with the 2012 interim dividend of 3.0p, totals 
9.0p for the year, an increase of 80% on the 2011 dividend.  
The final dividend will be payable on 24 May 2013 to 
shareholders on the register on 2 April 2013. It is the  
Board’s intention to continue to pursue this progressive 
dividend approach.
Future prospects
The Group invested strongly during 2012 in consented land 
to support future growth in sales outlets. The prime nature 
of these new sales outlets is expected to further increase the 
Group’s average sales price, profit margins and returns.
People
The Board of directors has been delighted with the 
commitment and skill shown by all of the Group’s employees 
in delivering the growth during 2012 and, on behalf of the 
Board, I would like to thank them all. The Board would also 
like to extend its thanks to its subcontractors and suppliers.
Corporate governance
Bovis Homes is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, including those related to the role and 
effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Details are set out in the 
corporate governance section on pages 31 to 37.
Corporate responsibility
I am pleased to report the good progress against the targets 
laid out within our Corporate Social Responsibility report, 
in particular the improvements in our health and safety 
performance, a critical area where the Group will continue 
to target improvements. This progress has once again been 
recognised by the Group’s inclusion in the independently 
assessed FTSE4Good Index. Bovis	Homes	Group	PLC		 |		 7
The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2012 with 
improved profitability and in positioning the Group for growth
The Board
It is with confidence in the progress achieved by Bovis Homes  
that I have decided to retire as non-executive Chairman at the  
end of November 2013, having been Chairman for five and a  
half years. It has been a pleasure and a privilege to chair the Board 
during what has been a challenging period for the industry. I have 
been fortunate in the calibre of both the executive team and the 
non-executive directors and I would like to thank them for their 
collective support during my Chairmanship. I would also like to 
thank shareholders for their confidence in the Group and for  
their support.
Summary
Bovis Homes is well positioned to grow and drive enhanced 
shareholder returns over the coming years, based on stable housing 
market conditions. The business has delivered an excellent result in 
2012 and has invested well to provide a strong base for delivering 
continuing improvements in 2013 and beyond.
 
Malcolm	Harris	
Chairman
Chilton Dene
Chilton, Didcot
