 Annual report and accounts 2013 www.acmshippinggroup.com
04
whilst any sustained improvement in the 
shipping market is likely to take some time, 
the Board is pleased to observe that there 
are some early indicators of improvement 
in overall sentiment in the market. t his will 
have a positive impact on the Group in the 
medium and long term, given that ACM’s 
various divisions have worked hard to maintain 
and grow their market share during the 
downturn in freight rates.
ACM’s focus during the period has been on 
strengthening the Group’s global footprint, 
increasing volumes, ensuring the sustainability 
of its core business and that its teams are fully 
aligned to maximise value for clients. The Board 
is confident that this has been successfully 
achieved and that the Group is well placed 
to capitalise on any improvement in the market 
as and when it occurs.
Results
Despite the challenging markets, profit before tax 
and amortisation and impairment of intangibles 
was £3.1 million for the year (2012: £4.3 million) 
on revenue of £24.1 million (2012: £26.6 million). 
The key performance indicator of the business 
is the total number of fixtures and the Board is 
pleased that this increased by 6.9% during the 
period. Although weak freight rates impacted 
both revenue and profit, it was the results from 
the Group’s sale and purchase division which 
had the most significant impact. This impact 
related to the Group’s rebuilding of the division 
following personnel departures in 2011. During 
this rebuilding phase, the division generated a 
net loss of £0.2 million in the year, whereas the 
previous year showed a profit of £1 million as 
the forward order book was settled. The success 
of this division’s re-establishment is evidenced 
by the deals concluded and the rebuilding of 
the forward book after the year end. It is worth 
noting that the £1.2 million variance between 
the profitability of the two years is the same as 
the Group’s overall fall in profit, which highlights 
the robustness of the rest of the business during 
the year under review.
Earnings Per Share (EPS), adjusted for the 
non-cash impacts of amortisation and 
impairment of intangible assets, was down 
from 17.7 pence in 2012 to 12.5 pence.
Dividend
The Board’s ongoing confidence in the 
medium and longer-term growth prospects 
for ACM remains strong and this is reflected 
in the Group’s final dividend being maintained 
at 7 pence per share (2012: 7 pence per share). 
This makes the dividend for the full year 10.15 
pence per share (2012: 10.15 pence per share). 
The final dividend is payable on 4 October 2013 
to shareholders on the register as at close of 
business on 6 September 2013.
Chairman’s statement
Johnny Plumbe, Executive Chairman
In brief
•	 Group’s global footprint continues 
to strengthen
•	 International expansion continues
•	 Dividends of 10.15 pence for the year
•	 Sale and purchase division rebuilt
•	 Global teams developing strength
•	 Medium and longer-term prospects 
remain strong
“ ACM’s global offices are performing well together 
across the various shipbroking divisions and there 
are indications that market sentiment is starting 
to improve. ACM is particularly well placed to 
capitalise on this. ” ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
05
FinAnCiAl St AteMent S notiCe oF AGM Corpor Ate GovernAnCe YeAr in review
Strategy
The Group’s strategy is to be a globally 
integrated shipbroking service provider and 
the Board is pleased with the progress that has 
been made against this stated strategy during 
the period, developing the teams in each of 
the global offices and refining the infrastructure 
to enable them to work together effectively. 
The Group has rebuilt its sale and purchase 
division and has continued to increase the 
number of brokers while relocating several 
brokers to different offices so as to better 
serve its clients.
Employees
ACM’ s teams are working well together globally 
and the Board will look to continue to expand 
the teams organically as markets allow . The Board 
would like to thank all of the Group’s employees 
for their ongoing commitment to ACM.
Prospects
As has been widely reported during the period, 
the shipping market is currently at a particularly 
low point in its cycle; however, the Board 
believes that we are seeing the start of the 
cyclical change in the market for the medium 
term. Although any upturn in the market may 
take some time, sentiment is starting to improve 
amongst ship owners and this will positively 
impact freight rates in due course.
The current year has started well with volumes 
continuing to rise. Even more encouragingly, 
the Group has seen some significant growth 
in both the sale and purchase and time 
charter forward order books.
The Board is pleased with the strong position 
that ACM has established in the market in 
terms of its diversified offering and its team 
and remains confident of the Group’s 
growth prospects.
Johnny Plumbe
Executive Chairman
9 July 2013
ACM is one of the world’s leading shipbrokers 
providing a single point of contact for the seaborne 
transportation of oil, refined products, liquid 
petroleum gas and dry bulk commodities, and we 
pride ourselves on a truly comprehensive portfolio.
integrated
solutions for industries worldwide
We have produced a strong fundamental business 
with a solid platform for future growth and we 
continue to look for opportunities to expand 
the Group’s offering.
focused
on the global shipping market
A team of more than 160 brokers and support staff 
based in London, Mumbai, New Delhi, Singapore, 
Shanghai, Beijing, Melbourne, Sydney, New York and 
Dubai provides clients with global experience and 
intimate local knowledge of world shipping centres.
strong
team with a range of disciplines
“ The Group has performed well during the period, 
although financial results were constrained by weak 
freight rates. The Board’s confidence is reflected in 
the dividend, which has been maintained at 10.15 
pence per share for the full year and is indicative 
of our optimism for the medium and longer-term 
growth of the business. ”
