 Annual report and accounts 2013 www.acmshippinggroup.com
06
Chief Executive’s review
James Gundy, Chief Executive Officer
ACM has continued to successfully execute its 
global strategy and has made good operational 
progress during the year. 
In brief
•	 Overall number of fixtures continues to grow
•	 Sale and purchase business being rebuilt with 
some key appointments
•	 Building a strong global team of highly 
motivated people
•	 New sale and purchase team now working 
productively with the projects team
•	 Well positioned for any upturn in the markets
t he Group has continued to execute against its 
stated strategy during the period, building its 
global teams and the infrastructure for those 
teams to work together effectively. t he Board 
is pleased to report that the overall number 
of fixtures that the Group has secured continues 
to grow. t he overall year on year growth was 
6.9%, demonstrating that ACM has successfully 
grown its volume of fixtures every year since 
joining AiM in 2006, having grown volumes 
from just over 1,000 fixtures in 2006 to over 
3,200 in the period under review.
Profit before tax and amortisation and 
impairment of intangibles was £3.1 million 
(2012: £4.3 million). The Group continues to 
have a strong cash position with cash balances 
at the year end of £4.3 million (2012: £3.1 million).
Spot brokerage
The Group’s core business is its spot brokerage 
desk, involving the hire of a ship for a single 
voyage. This desk continued to perform well in 
terms of volume of fixtures and although rates 
remain weak they are now showing more signs 
of activity driven volatility. The number of fixtures 
achieved by the Group’s main tanker desks 
increased by 5.0%. The Group has strengthened 
the team in the Far East in particular and the 
global spot brokerage desks are interacting 
well together.
Time charter
ACM’s time charter business, which involves 
the long-term hire of tankers, continued to 
maintain a steady stream of deals. However, 
revenue from this desk decreased in the year 
as new deals being completed were at lower 
hire rates than those fixed when the market 
was higher. The Board’s belief that this team is 
well positioned to capitalise on any improvement 
in the market has been validated in the first 
quarter of the current year where the amount 
fixed has exceeded the booking for any quarter 
for several years.
Sale and purchase
The year to 31 March 2013 saw ACM establish 
a new sale and purchase team following 
personnel departures in the summer of 2011. 
During this rebuilding process revenue 
opportunities were low and revenue fell from 
£2.2 million to £0.6 million, which resulted in 
the desk showing a loss of £0.2 million in the 
year to 31 March 2013 whereas in the previous 
year it contributed a profit of £1.0 million. The 
previous year had benefitted from a forward 
book which had already been built. The Board 
is pleased that the new global team is now in 
place and is working productively with the 
projects team. The Board believes that there 
are indications that the number of ship sale 
transactions in the market will start to increase.  ACM Shipping Group plc Annual report and accounts 2013
07
FinAnCiAl St AteMent S notiCe oF AGM Corpor Ate GovernAnCe YeAr in review
Since the year end, more deals have been 
concluded by ACM and a forward book 
is successfully being built which gives 
the Board confidence about the future 
growth of this division.
Dry cargo
ACM’s global dry cargo desks successfully 
increased volumes during the period, but 
they have also been hampered by low market 
freight rates. As previously announced, certain 
productivity improvements have been 
implemented, with more planned, so as 
to ensure that this division should become 
profitable even while freight rates remain low. 
ACM is well positioned to capitalise on any 
upturn in freight rates, as it continues to grow 
its market share. The Group’s expansion into 
Dubai and Singapore has proved successful 
to date, with these teams working well with 
the rest of the desk globally.
As previously reported, the ongoing lower 
market rates are resulting in reduced revenues 
for ACM Endeavour, which was acquired in 2010. 
Although the Board is satisfied that this business 
is performing well in a challenging market, the 
Board announced in the latest Interim Results 
that an impairment was to be made to the 
goodwill acquired on acquisition. This impairment 
amounts to £3.7 million. The last few months 
have seen this business broaden its focus which 
has resulted in the successful completion of 
some long-term period business which will 
support its future performance. The Board 
remains confident that this business will 
prove to be a valuable part of the Group.
Gas/LPG
The Group established a small, London-based 
broking team for Gas/LPG shipbroking in 2008, 
having identified this as an area with considerable 
growth potential, and this continues to develop 
in accordance with the Board’s strategy. 
Although still on a small scale, the year to 
31 March 2013 was successful as the desk moved 
into profit. This market is now expanding and 
ACM expects to grow its team as the market 
demand increases.
Financial derivatives
The Group’s joint venture with GFI Group, Inc. 
(GFI) to conduct derivative brokerage is 
continuing to maintain robust volumes of 
business within the industry. However, revenue 
from this division has also been affected by 
weakened freight rates. The Board is pleased 
with the performance of this division in terms 
of market share and believes that financial 
derivatives continue to be a valuable part 
of the Group’s offering.
The market
Recent times have proved very difficult for 
crude carriers across the board. Heavy refinery 
maintenance programmes in Asia can explain 
at least some of the slowdown in tanker activity. 
As refinery activity returns and new crude 
supplies emerge from Sudan and West Africa, 
ACM expects to see a slight improvement 
in rates for the second half of this year. The 
pace of newbuilding deliveries has slowed 
considerably and with some assistance from 
the demolition of vessels as well as the floating 
production storage offshore market, fleet growth 
is coming under control. This will accommodate 
an unwinding of slow-steaming at least until 
the second half of 2015, which is also the 
earliest delivery date for future newbuilding 
orders. While an overcapacity buffer still exists, 
the Board believes that this will shortly 
become manageable.
Product carrier markets have fared better in 
the current year, with the larger Long-Range 
vessels beating five-year averages in the second 
quarter. Strong demand for transportation fuel 
in Africa and Latin America is supporting trade 
growth, while refinery closures in Europe, 
Australia and Hawaii are lengthening supply 
chains. Although heavy ordering in the 
Medium-Range 2 and, more recently, the 
Long-Range 2 sectors puts freight gains at risk 
in the second half of 2014, the Group expects 
rates to hold or improve over the next six to 
twelve months as new Asian refining capacity 
forces further closures among OECD refiners.
Although deliveries of new vessels have 
slowed considerably from the previous year, 
dry bulk carrier freight rates in the first half 
of the year have been low. The oversupply of 
tonnage has yet to be absorbed by increasing 
demand, although utilisation is slowly edging 
up. This could lead to some volatility in the 
coming months. Looking further out to mid-2014 
and beyond, a significant number of greenfield 
or mine-expansion projects should provide 
the necessary impetus to support healthier 
returns for owners, supported by the ever 
increasing demand for iron ore in China.
The outlook for Very Large Gas Carriers (VLGC) 
owners looks relatively positive. Additional US 
exports from Targa and Soyo (starting in 
October 2013) is expected to add to the 
already considerable volume of LPG exports 
in the Atlantic basin. West to East arbitrage has 
recently become a feature of the LPG market 
and, together with a busy Indian programme, 
this seems to be the main driver of the current 
spike in VLGC freights. Next year some increase in 
Middle East LPG exports and fleet consolidation 
through the proposed sale of Maersk vessels 
to BW Gas should maintain momentum, 
despite ten VLGC new building deliveries 
expected in 2014.
Outlook
Whilst the overall market remains challenging, 
the Board is pleased with the operational progress 
that has been made during the year and is 
satisfied with the ongoing growth in volumes 
across the business. The Group has successfully 
focused on building its global teams and 
supporting their ongoing interaction and the 
Board is confident that despite the immediate 
challenges in terms of freight rates holding back 
revenue growth, the medium and longer-term 
prospects for ACM remain strong.
James Gundy
Chief Executive
9 July 2013
