 6  |  Annual report and accounts  |  Strategic report  |  Our business
Strategic report 
|
 Our business 
Chairman’s statement
This is my first report to shareholders 
following my appointment as Chairman in 
November 2013. This is an exciting time for 
Bovis Homes and I have been pleased with 
the strong results for 2013, the successful 
deployment of the growth strategy and the 
considerable opportunity that I see for the 
Group going forward.
The economic backdrop has shown signs of improvement 
over the last year and this has been reflected in a recovery in 
the UK housing market. The availability of mortgage finance 
is increasing in terms of the number of mortgages being 
approved, and the rates being charged on these mortgages 
are increasingly competitive. Although indices report that UK 
house prices increased strongly in 2013, after excluding the 
effects of London, house price rises are considered to have 
been modest across the country. However, the Government 
has also provided positive assistance, particularly through the 
Help to Buy scheme. As a result of these factors, consumer 
confidence has improved. 
With this improving backdrop, the management team at Bovis 
Homes has produced a strong set of results in 2013, delivering 
the targeted improvements in return on capital employed.  
The Group is increasingly benefiting from the compound 
positive effects of stronger volumes, higher average sales 
price and improving profit margins, driving profits and return 
on capital employed higher. The Group has also set the 
foundations for ongoing growth through its carefully targeted 
land acquisition strategy, continued product development and 
focus on balance sheet strength.
Financial performance
The Group delivered a strong increase in the return on capital 
employed by 2.7 ppts to 10.4% in 2013 with both profit 
margins and capital turn contributing to this improvement.  
The Group continues to be well capitalised with a strong 
balance sheet with net debt at the end of 2013 of £18 million.
Earnings per share and dividends
Basic earnings per share for the year have grown by 49%  
to 44.9p. Consistent with the intention to increase dividends 
progressively as earnings per share increase, the Board will be 
recommending a final dividend of 9.5p per share, which, when 
combined with the 2013 interim dividend of 4.0p, totals 13.5p 
for the year, an increase of 50% on the 2012 dividend. The 
final dividend will be payable on 23 May 2014 to shareholders 
on the register on 28 March 2014. It is the Board’s intention to 
continue to pursue this progressive dividend approach.
Future prospects
While delivering a strong profit result in 2013, the Group has 
built a significantly improved forward sales position at the start 
of 2014, which underpins volume growth for this year. With 
another year of carefully targeted but assertive land investment 
in 2013 ahead of utilisation and a strong land pipeline going 
into 2014, sales outlets are expected to grow during 2014 
and 2015, supporting further growth in reservation volumes. 
Assuming current market conditions continue, the location of 
these new sales outlets and the nature of the homes being 
developed is expected to further increase the Group’s average 
sales price and improve profit margins. Together with a 
continued focus on balance sheet efficiency, this is expected to 
deliver further strong growth in both capital turn, profitability, 
and ultimately shareholder returns.
People
The Board of directors has been delighted with the 
commitment and skill shown by the Group’s employees in 
delivering growth during 2013 and, on behalf of the Board, 
I would like to thank them for their dedication and hard 
work. The Board would also like to extend its thanks to its 
subcontractors and suppliers.
Corporate governance
Bovis Homes is committed to high standards of corporate 
governance, including those related to the role and 
effectiveness of the Board and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code. Details are set out in the 
corporate governance section on pages 33 to 41.
Ian Tyler 
Chairman Bovis Homes Group PLC  |  7
The Group has achieved excellent progress in 2013 with 
improved profitability and is well positioned for further growth
Corporate social responsibility
The Group remains committed to delivering strong Corporate 
Social Responsibility performance. During 2013, the Group was 
able to maintain its health and safety track record, as measured 
by incidence rate, notwithstanding a significant increase in build 
activity. In respect of customer satisfaction, 93% of customers 
were happy to recommend Bovis Homes to their friends. Focus 
remains high in the Group to make further improvements in both 
of these important areas, as part of the overall Corporate Social 
Responsibility strategy.
Conclusion
Looking ahead, I believe that the Group has the right strategy in 
place to deliver enhanced, sustainable shareholder returns in the 
years ahead and I look forward to working with the Board and 
executive team to continue the Group’s success.
Ian Tyler 
Chairman
