 24992.04 – 16 December 2016 4:22 PM – Proof 6
Letter from the Chairman
Dear Shareholder
Our 2016 Annual Report reﬂects the successful 
and substantial start to our new transformation 
programme.
For 2016, the board’s priority has been to 
oversee the development and implementation 
of the new medium-term strategy generated by 
Andrew Rashbass, our new CEO. He presented 
our strategy at the March 2016 Investor Day 
and it is outlined in his Strategic Report.
Our strategy is to invest around major sector 
themes, transform the operating model and 
actively optimise the business portfolio. The 
early signs of achievement provide conﬁdence 
in Euromoney’s ability to harness organic and 
acquired growth from the longer-term trends 
in asset management, price discovery, data 
analytics, capital markets and the broadly 
deﬁned ﬁnancial services industry.
In line with Andrew’s strategic review, the board 
has moved to a more traditional structure, 
including the creation of the CEO role and my 
appointment as non-executive chairman. This 
sharpens the board’s focus and governance 
and improves the company’s management 
structure. To that end, Christopher Fordham, 
Diane Alfano, Bashar Al-Rehany, Neil Osborn 
and Jane Wilkinson, all previously executive 
directors of the company, did not seek re-
election at the AGM, but they have continued 
to play the same vital role in the development 
of the company and execution of our new 
strategy.
The company’s dividend policy is to distribute 
a third of its after-tax earnings. Although 
adjusted diluted earnings a share have 
decreased by 5% to 66.5p, in view of our 
strong balance sheet and operating cash 
ﬂows the board has approved an unchanged 
ﬁnal dividend of 16.4p a share to be paid on 
February 9 2017, giving a total dividend for the 
year of 23.4p.
2017 will continue to be a year of transition 
in our three-year programme, with a clear 
focus on delivering the new business priorities. 
Encouraging progress has been achieved and 
the group will look to build on this momentum 
in spite of expected, demanding business 
and market conditions. Both our industry 
and customer base will be adjusting to the 
implications of Brexit, the new administration in 
the USA and the change in dynamics inherent 
in the underlying digitalisation process.
Our board is fully focused on delivering 
sustainable medium-term value by supporting 
the management team in the execution of our 
new strategy. We believe that Euromoney is 
becoming well positioned for this economic 
environment.
JOHN BOTTS  
Chairman  
November 24 2016
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
03
Overview ❯ LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN
