 The strategy we unveiled in March is working. 
It’s a tough environment for our customers, 
and therefore for us, but we are beginning 
to see the results of the strategy, for instance 
in the acceleration in subscription growth, 
which constituted a record 58% of our 
business in 2016, and in the ﬂow of successful 
product launches. Focusing the company on 
delivering growth through investing in areas 
of opportunity and disinvesting from areas 
that are structurally and cyclically challenged 
remains my priority. Our return to acquiring 
excellent businesses, like FastMarkets, after a 
break from acquisitions in 2015, also increases 
my optimism about the future. Despite lower 
year-on-year proﬁts, our strong balance 
sheet means that we are recommending to 
shareholders that we maintain the dividend 
at 2015 levels. This is a mark of our measured 
conﬁdence about the future.
STRATEGY
At the Investor Day in March 2016, we 
presented the new strategy for Euromoney. We 
categorise our businesses into four quadrants 
depending on the position in the business cycle 
of their customers and the strength of their 
business model and take necessary actions in 
each quadrant. See page 10.
This leads to three pillars of strategic activity:
Investing around big themes such as 
the information and services to support 
the asset management industry, price 
discovery and others.
Ensuring an effective operating model 
that marries the best of the company’s 
entrepreneurial culture (closeness 
to customers, passion for brands, 
knowledge of products and accountability 
for revenue and proﬁt) with, for example, 
modern marketing techniques, group-
wide talent management, seeking 
economies of, and opportunities from, 
scale and adopting a strategic approach 
to developing each business.
Actively managing the portfolio, 
disinvesting in businesses where the 
market is weak and the business model 
structurally challenged and investing 
where the businesses are structurally 
strong and there are market tailwinds.
Progress with implementing the strategy has 
been good, partly because the organisation 
has adopted the strategy more effectively and 
more quickly than we had assumed and partly 
because we have been able to use the beneﬁts 
of the strong dollar compared with sterling 
to accelerate investment while still delivering 
results in line with board’s expectations. This 
is despite tougher trading conditions than we 
had expected during the year and our bottom-
left businesses performing worse than we had 
forecast 12 months ago.
Our three-pillar and four-quadrant strategy 
helped to identify the businesses that were 
dragging us backwards and the businesses 
where we have the greatest opportunities. 
We began to deal with the former and invest 
in the latter. We have removed the bottom-
left proﬁt drag from Gulf Publishing and 
Petroleum Economist (which we sold) and 
from Euromoney Learning Solutions (which 
we restructured). In addition, we began to 
reduce any operational deﬁcit (as we call it) 
to get as many of our businesses as possible 
performing better (introducing, for example, 
sophisticated pricing policies and market-led 
product development techniques).
With this new focus on market-led product 
development, we launched numerous new 
products. Some examples:
 ● BCA research reports and analysis on US 
equities, US Equity Trading strategy and US 
Technology sector strategy;
 ● Institutional Investor RIA and European 
Alternative Investment Institutes created;
 ●
Institutional Investor Research All-
America Trading Team survey and rankings;
 ● Ned Davis Research research data solutions 
with access to all NDR’s data and charts and 
Explorer which provides interactive content 
distribution; and
 ● Airﬁnance database and ﬂeet analysis tools 
for Airﬁnance Fleet Analyst.
As well as disposals, we have become more 
active once again in our search for excellent 
businesses to add to our existing ones but with 
a greater focus on their strategic ﬁt than before. 
During the year, we acquired FastMarkets, 
a metals news and prices platform which 
becomes part of the Metal Bulletin Group and 
accelerates its strategy of becoming the leading 
metals price reporting agency. We also bought 
Reinsurance Security, which rates reinsurance 
companies, and which now sits alongside, 
and complements, Insurance Insider. We also 
acquired a ﬂeet database which now sits at the 
heart of our ﬂeet-valuation toolset.
The continuing strong cash generation – 
conversion of adjusted operating proﬁt to cash 
in the year at 105% continues our decades-
long record – shows that, in the face of tough 
market conditions, the business can be both 
strategic and tightly and effectively managed.
PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR
Despite tougher than expected trading 
conditions, the group’s performance was at 
the top end of the board’s expectations. The 
drag from bottom-left businesses was worse 
than expected; however, favourable currency 
movements, in particular following the UK’s 
referendum decision on EU membership 
enabled accelerated investment in the strategy. 
It is also encouraging that the beneﬁts from 
the strategy are coming through earlier than 
anticipated. 
Euromoney’s performance reﬂects the 
continuing headwinds experienced by its 
customers, particularly within the investment 
banking sector. Revenues were down by 4% 
on an underlying
1
 basis, with reported revenues 
ﬂat reﬂecting the beneﬁt of a stronger US 
dollar relative to the British pound.
The pressures on banking and ﬁnance and on 
commodity events, which together constituted 
26% of revenue continued to offset the 
improving performance in its operating 
companies focused on price discovery, data 
and market intelligence and those serving the 
asset management sector.
Chief Executive’s Statement
1
1 2
2
3
24992.04 – 16 December 2016 4:22 PM – Proof 6
EUROMONEY INSTITUTIONAL INVESTOR PLC WWW.EUROMONEYPLC.COM
04 Subscription revenues continued to grow, 
supported by a strong asset management 
market, and were up an underlying
1
 1%. 
Advertising revenues deteriorated through the 
year and declined at a faster rate than in 2015, 
reﬂecting continued budgetary pressures in 
global ﬁnancial institutions and were down an 
underlying
1
 11%. Large events, particularly in 
the ﬁnance sector run by the IMN business and 
those in the telecoms sectors, performed well 
but smaller events fared less well. Overall event 
sponsorship was down by an underlying
1
 2%. 
Revenue from non-training event delegates 
was down 8%.
Adjusted operating proﬁt fell by 3%. As 
expected, the adjusted operating margin fell 
from 26% to 25%, reﬂecting the impact of 
higher property and investment costs as well as 
the impact of the loss of contribution from the 
sale of the Capital DATA joint venture which 
formed part of the Dealogic transaction.
During the year, Euromoney increased its 
investment in developing and launching 
new products to enhance organic revenue 
growth. M&A activity remains an important 
feature of the group’s strategy to supplement 
organic growth and to manage the portfolio 
more actively. As part of that, Euromoney 
disposed of Gulf Publishing during the year 
to reduce exposure to the energy market and 
to advertising, and acquired FastMarkets to 
become part of the Metal Bulletin Group and 
Reinsurance Security to add to its portfolio of 
services aimed at the reinsurance market.
PRIORITIES FOR 2017
In the year ahead we expect to continue to 
implement the strategy, investing in our big 
themes, making sure we have an effective 
operating model which combines Euromoney’s 
entrepreneurial culture with a more strategic 
approach, sharing best practice and achieving 
economies of scale. We will continue to 
manage the portfolio actively, buying where 
we see value-creating and strategically sensible 
opportunities to do so and selling when we 
believe a business is more valuable to someone 
else than to us.
OUTLOOK
We do not expect markets to improve in the 
year ahead and our plans are built around 
them not doing so. We said at the Investor 
Day that our strategy would not change the 
trajectory in 2016; that we expected, subject to 
the usual caveats, to return to growth in 2018; 
and that 2017 would be a year of transition. 
This remains our view. 
ANDREW RASHBASS  
Chief Executive  
November 24 2016
1 
Underlying revenues exclude the impact of acquisitions, disposals, event timing differences and currency movements.  
A detailed reconciliation of the group’s adjusted and underlying results is set out in the appendix to this statement.
24992.04 – 16 December 2016 4:22 PM – Proof 6
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
05
Overview ❯ CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
