 6 BOWLEVEN PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
The transformation of BowLeven into a
focused African independent operator is 
firmly on track.
In the relatively short time period since the
Company was admitted to AIM in December
2004 and with limited resources, BowLeven and
its wholly owned Cameroonian subsidiary EurOil
have moved forward aggressively as a new
operator in the competitive African E&P arena.
This has been achieved by a great deal of hard
work by all involved, including the management
team and staff, and with the active support of
our advisers and shareholders. 
During the past year particular attention has
been devoted to building up the management
team. I am delighted that we have been able
to attract top industry talent into our team
both at the Executive and Non-Executive level.
We are actively seeking to recruit an
Exploration Director. I am confident that we
have in place the necessary resources to
accelerate delivery of value for shareholders.
EurOil as an indigenous company is focused
on Cameroon and has the resources (both
financial and technical) to explore, appraise
and develop the Etinde Permit and to provide
a viable gas fuelled power generation industry
in Cameroon. It is also well placed to leverage
other opportunities in the region and
elsewhere on the African continent. The clear
goal remains for BowLeven and EurOil to be
identified as an African player, with quality
assets and a talented and experienced
management team that deliver results.
Cameroon is a key area of activity for EurOil,
with the future success of the company
aligned to that of the Government and people
of Cameroon. 
The key business priority remains the rapid
evaluation of the Etinde Permit comprising 
an area of 2,314 sq km in relatively shallow
waters offshore Cameroon and monetising 
the reserves that are known to exist in the
acreage. 
OPERATIONS REVIEW
Since the Company’s shares were admitted 
to trading on AIM on 7 December 2004, the
Company has made substantial progress with
limited financial resources. It has:
acquired 575 sq km of new 3D seismic data
over Block MLHP-7 and 204 sq km over the
deeper water sections of Blocks MLHP-5
and 6 of the Etinde Permit; 
completed fast track interpretation of the
newly acquired 3D seismic data and
existing seismic and drilling data within
Block MLHP-7; ongoing processing and
interpretation of that data continues; 
contracted the GlobalSantaFe rig Adriatic
IX to drill two exploration wells;
selected two exploration drilling prospects
for the 2005 drilling programme, the
Manyikebi prospect which, at time of
reporting, has reached total depth and the
Bachuo prospect;
established an operations base in Douala
and commenced drilling operations as
planned on 10 October 2005; and
opened negotiations with the relevant
Cameroon authorities in respect of fiscal
and economic terms for gas developments
in the Etinde Permit, which we intend to
conclude as soon as possible.
From the IPO, to acquiring, processing and
interpreting the 3D data over a large area to
spudding the first well within 9 months is
indicative of the pace that BowLeven has 
set itself.
DRILLING UPDATE
The 2005 drilling programme comprises two
exploration wells. Previously, nine wells were
drilled in Block MLHP-7 by other companies.
Of the eight wells drilled by the previous
operators, seven encountered hydrocarbons on
the flanks of the channel systems in the Block.
One well was a dry hole. In March 2004, the
Group drilled a commitment well, Manyu-1,
which also encountered hydrocarbons. The
combination of these wells and the newly-
acquired 3D seismic has provided a clearer
understanding of the depositional model and
the expected reservoir characteristics of the
Isongo channel systems. The two wells in the
2005 programme will also provide new data to
assist in the interpretation of the 3D seismic
covering previously undrilled prospects in this
Block. This data, when evaluated in conjunction
with data on the previously drilled wells, will
provide the basis for planning the 2006 and
2007 exploration and appraisal drilling
programme for Block MLHP-7.
MANYIKEBI-1
Drilling commenced at Manyikebi-1 on 10
October 2005 and reached a total depth of
5050 feet. At the time of this report wireline
logging was underway. As expected the well
encountered gas. However the well was drilled
primarily to target multi level oil sands in the
Biafra formations. The final results of the well
are subject to a thorough post well analysis
but can be summarised as follows. The well
confirmed our understanding of the
depositional model. The well encountered a
total of 985 feet of good quality reservoir sands
in 9 separate sand packages, varying in
thickness between 50 feet and 220 feet. The
indicated reservoir parameters are good in
terms of porosity and permeability. Some 40
feet of net gas bearing pay was discovered in
the main sand unit. The volumetrics are yet to
be confirmed but will probably be of the order
of 80 Bcf. The Company has determined this to
be non commercial in view of the current
reserves contained within the acreage. On the
positive side, the well was drilled well within
budget and ahead of schedule and without
lost time incidents. Whilst the result is
disappointing, the well is regarded as a
temporary setback. The team remain
confident in our ability to add material value
with drill-bit success. 
The well has no impact on the Company’s
reserves position and has only a minor impact
on our forward drilling plans for 2006 and
2007. A possible Manyikebi appraisal well has
been deleted from the programme.
Philip Rhind
Chief Executive Officer
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
• WE PLAN TO OPTIMISE SHAREHOLDER
VALUE WITH DRILL-BIT SUCCESS
• WE ARE BUILDING A TOP CLASS TEAM 7 BOWLEVEN PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
The next well, Bachuo-1 will be spudded
within the next 7-10 days and will target 
large gas condensate reservoirs in the 
Upper Isongo. This well is within the main
depocentre in the Southern part of block
MLHP-7. Drilling is expected to take
approximately 45 days. 
The Company signed a Letter of Intent to contract
a specific drilling unit for 2006 and expects to
execute the contract within the next month.
Similarly, the plans to commence the 3D seismic
acquisition programme for the remainder of
Blocks MLHP-5 and 6 are on track.
GAS TO ELECTRICITY (“GTE”)
On Admission to AIM the Group advised of its
plans to negotiate a gas supply contract for a
proposed GTE power plant project. The Group
has since appointed the Energy Contract
Company, in Twickenham, Middlesex, to begin
negotiations with regards to the commercial
contracts to support GTE. A considerable
amount of preparatory work has been done
both in-house and by our consultants in
respect of the various options that are open to
us. Firm decisions as to which route to follow
will be taken as soon as the results of the
current drilling programme are available. It is
however clear that gas exploitation is extremely
important for Cameroon and EurOil aims to act
as a prime mover in accelerating GTE delivery.
The Group believes that a phased approach to
gas and power development is desirable and
the Etinde Permit is ideally positioned to
provide the initial infrastructure and to act as a
regional hub. EurOil will continue an active
dialogue with the Cameroonian authorities and
within the framework of the Gas Master Plan.
FARM-IN STRATEGY
The Company announced in its AIM Admission
Document that it intended to develop
partnerships with other oil and gas companies in
order to further develop its business. Discussions
with a select group of operating companies have
been held. It has been decided to progress any
farm-in discussions after the 2005 two well
drilling programme has been completed and
thoroughly evaluated.
WORK PROGRAMME FOR 2006 AND 2007
The outlook for 2006 and 2007 is encouraging.
Our programme is focused on completing the
interpretation of the 3D seismic data over
Block MLHP-7 and the acquisition, processing
and interpretation of seismic data over Blocks
MLHP-5 and 6.
Subject to the results of the 2005 drilling
programme, the Company will consider
several appraisal and development drilling
options, including:
Bachuo prospect appraisal
(gas/condensate);
Manyu-2 discovery/appraisal (oil);
Isongo D and E appraisal (gas/condensate);
Isongo C appraisal (gas/condensate); and
Sanaga Sud: one gas appraisal well and a
development well (if the award of this
licence area to EurOil Limited is confirmed
by the Government of Cameroon or EurOil
gains a meaningful participation).
Possible exploration targets identified so far
by the Company include:
additional Biafra sands oil prospects/plays
in Block MLHP-7;
additional Isongo gas/condensate
prospects/plays in Block MLHP-7; and
oil and gas exploration in Blocks MLHP-5
and 6 (subject to the acquisition and
interpretation of 3D seismic data).
In order to finance the Group’s work
programme beyond the end of the 2005
drilling campaign, a Placing of new Ordinary
shares took place in October 2005.
Approximately £53 million was raised and it is
planned that these funds will be used to:
acquire additional 3D seismic over Blocks 5
and 6 of the Etinde Permit;
process and interpret the seismic data
acquired; 
secure at least one drilling rig for the 2006
and 2007 drilling programme;
drill up to six wells on the Etinde Permit
area;
fund further GTE planning; and
provide additional working capital.
Since clarity over the status of the award of
the Sanaga Sud gas field in MLHP-4 has not
yet been forthcoming, the Company is moving
ahead with the evaluation of various models
for the development of regional gas and
power projects. Whilst considerable work has
been performed on the Isongo Marine
discovery in Block MLHP-7, it is considered
sensible to await the results of the two 2005
exploration wells, before taking key decisions
on development.
To conclude, there is the potential for a 
US$ 200 million work programme comprising
seismic and exploration and appraisal drilling
activities in the permit for the period 2006 and
2007. At this stage we envisage a firm 4 well
drilling programme and discussions are
underway to contract an already identified rig
for the second half of 2006. There is also the
potential work for an additional rig to be
contracted early in 2006, should one become
available.
My team and I look forward with confidence to
the year ahead.
Philip Rhind
Chief Executive Officer
