 • THE COMPANY HAS AN ATTRACTIVE ASSET
BASE WITH CONSIDERABLE EXPLORATION
AND DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
• THE BOARD HAS BEEN STRENGTHENED
4 BOWLEVEN PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
It is now just over ten months since
BowLeven was admitted to the Alternative
Investment Market (“AIM”). Since then,
substantial progress has been made:
high quality 3D seismic over block
MLHP-7 has been acquired, processed
and interpreted;
a two well drilling programme has
begun; 
discussions with the Cameroon
authorities, on economic and fiscal
terms for oil and gas developments in
the Etinde Permit, have started;
funding, for an ongoing drilling
programme in 2006 and new 3D seismic
over blocks MLHP-5 and 6, has been
secured by a £55 million institutional
equity placing; and
the Boards of BowLeven and EurOil 
have been strengthened.
3D SEISMIC
The January 2005 acquisition of 3D seismic
over 575 sq km in block MLHP-7, has proved
to be an excellent investment. The seismic
data has revealed that the known Isongo
gas/condensate discoveries, which were
drilled by previous operators many years ago,
were located on the flanks of three large
channel sand systems that congregate in a
“hydrocarbon depocentre” in the southern
portion of this block. These three channels
cover around two thirds of the areal extent of
the block and the prospects in this area, for
exploration and appraisal drilling, are exciting. 
DRILLING
A jack-up drilling rig (Adriatic IX) was secured
from GlobalSantaFe to drill two high impact
exploration wells in block MLHP-7.
Drilling started on 10 October 2005 and 
the first exploration well (Manyikebi-1), a
multi reservoir Biafra sands oil target, was
drilled to total depth. The well encountered
high quality reservoir sands, discovered gas
but did not find oil. The well will be plugged
and abandoned as a small gas discovery;
recoverable volumes have yet to be
determined. We are obviously disappointed
with this result, which is a setback for our
technical analysis of the Biafra sands, but 
the basic depositional model is confirmed. 
The results of Manyikebi-1 have no impact 
on the Group’s previously stated recoverable
hydrocarbon volumes and the technical
interpretation of the Isongo sands is
unaffected. Our asset base in Cameroon has
considerable exploration and development
potential. 
The second well, Bachuo-1, which will
immediately follow on from the initial well, 
is a gas/condensate exploration target in the
Upper Isongo sands, within the hydrocarbon
depocentre in the southern part of this block.
The result of this well will be announced as
soon as possible after technical assessment
has been concluded.
FISCAL AND ECONOMIC TERMS
Discussions have begun with the Cameroon
authorities in regard to new fiscal and
economic terms applicable to oil and gas
developments in the Etinde Permit. These
discussions are ongoing and we will report
any significant developments to shareholders
in due course.
FARM-IN STRATEGY
Your Directors recognise the likely advantages
of securing an oil and gas joint venture
partner in order to further de-risk the
technical and financial exposure to the
business. 
Our criteria for partners are:
we will retain Operatorship of our assets,
and our selected partner will ideally have:
West African Experience,
a fast track development record,
gas as well as oil experience, and
access to other licence areas in Africa.
Our objectives are to:
reduce risk,
obtain additional technical capability,
provide funds for future developments, and
reduce future cash requirements from
shareholders.
Should we decide to form a joint venture
partnership, we would aim to conclude a deal
during summer 2006.
ADDITIONAL EQUITY FUNDING
On 18 October 2005, BowLeven issued 8.5
million new ordinary 10p shares, by way of a
private placing to certain financial institutions,
at a price of £6.50 per share, to raise new
equity funds of £55.25 million before
expenses. The net proceeds of £53.09 million
will be used to fund a planned 2006-07
exploration, appraisal and development
drilling programme, 3D seismic acquisition
over Blocks MLHP-5 and 6 and provide
additional working capital.
BOARD CHANGES
With immediate effect, Don Vandergrift 
(Group Operations Director and CEO of EurOil)
is retiring from the Boards of BowLeven plc
and all of its subsidiaries. 
Terry Heneaghan
Executive Chairman
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Dear Shareholder, 5 BOWLEVEN PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2005
For a period of twelve months Don will act as
a consultant to the BowLeven Group, in order
to ensure a smooth handover of his
responsibilities to our new Technical Director,
John Morrow, and other Executive Directors.
On behalf of the shareholders and the other
Directors, I thank him for his tremendous
services to the BowLeven Group over the past
several years, often in a very difficult and
precarious business environment. We wish
him well for the future.
Dr. Easton Wren has indicated his 
willingness to retire from the Board once
another Non-Executive Director has been 
recruited to replace him.
The operations function is now within the
responsibility of John Morrow. John, age 51
and formerly Project Director (Middle East),
BG Group, joined BowLeven plc on 
7 September 2005 and is appointed to the
Board as Technical Director of the BowLeven
Group with immediate effect. Philip Rhind,
Group CEO, takes over the position of CEO 
of EurOil. 
The Board of BowLeven plc has been
strengthened by the appointment of two 
Non- Executive Directors:
Mr. Robert Walvis is appointed with immediate
effect to the Board as Senior Non-Executive
Director and Deputy Chairman. Robert, age
58, spent his entire full-time business career
from 1971 until 2001 with Royal Dutch Shell.
When he retired from Shell International
Limited, he was Director and Chairman of the
Global Corporate Centre with responsibility
for worldwide planning, external and
environmental affairs. Robert will be
appointed Chairman of the Audit,
Remuneration and Nomination committees.
With immediate effect, Mr. Steve Lowden is
appointed to the Board of BowLeven plc as a
Non-Executive Director. Steve, age 47, has had
over 24 years experience in the international
oil and gas business, mainly with Premier Oil
and Marathon Oil Corporation. When he
resigned from Marathon in June 2005, Steve
was Senior Vice President for Business
Development and Integrated Gas.
I am delighted that we have been able to
recruit people of such high calibre and wide
ranging experience. 
In July 2006 I will be 60 years old. It has
always been my plan to retire from full-time
executive life at that age and I will retire as
Executive Chairman sometime during the next
twelve months. When I retire, Robert Walvis
will take on the role of Chairman (Non-
Executive).
We are actively looking to recruit an
Exploration Director with a proven track
record of finding hydrocarbons and we are
also seeking a Non-Executive Director with 
a City/financial background.
FINANCIAL RESULTS 
The Group reported a loss of £2.1 million for
the twelve months ended 30 June 2005. The
main reasons for the loss are interest payable
of £1.3 million (relating to the premium
payable on the redemption and conversion of
certain loans during the financial year) and an
increase in administrative expenses to £1.4
million, reflecting the necessary increase in
the scale of the Group’s operations in order to
properly manage and develop its asset base.
The balance sheet is healthy and the post-
balance sheet event of the institutional equity
placing has considerably strengthened our
financial resources and significantly de-risked
the business going forward.
SUMMARY
BowLeven has an attractive asset base in
Cameroon with considerable exploration and
development potential.
Our business plan to optimise shareholder
value remains unchanged and it is management’s
mission to drive this Company forward with
drill-bit success.
We are now well funded and our plan to form
a strategic alliance with a quality industry
partner will provide additional financial and
corporate strength. 
The quality of the experienced professionals
that we have managed to attract onto this
Board is a tribute to the potential of our asset
base and our business ambitions.
The Company is moving forward.
Yours sincerely,
Terry Heneaghan
Executive Chairman
