 GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD 
t he former executive c ommittee of the 
c ompany is disbanded. A group board of 
management which will manage the day-to-day 
aspects of the business is now established.  
t his group management board, which 
comprises all the executive directors of the 
c ompany, will focus on generating value 
from the existing asset base and from new 
opportunities for corporate growth.
the group management board is made up of:
chief executive officer:  kevin Hart*
exploration director:  Jerry Anthony
finance director:  John brown
chief operating officer:  John morrow
chairman of euroil:  chief t abetando
commercial director:  Peter wilson**
*   kevin Hart will chair the group 
management board.
**  Peter wilson also fulfils the roles of 
general counsel and company secretary to 
the main board.
this board of management will follow all of 
the procedures and disciplines that have been 
established by the board.
t he group management board is the  
executive engine of the c ompany. it will advise 
the board on policy matters and implement 
declared policies as determined from time 
to time. Apart from managing day-to-day 
business matters, the future direction of the 
business will be substantially determined by the 
recommendations of the group management 
board. 
this is a strong and capable management 
team and i have every confidence in its ability 
to move the company forward with success.  
i am also very pleased to announce that  
mr. ed willett, a senior explorationist at cairn 
energy Plc, has agreed to join bowleven in 
the New year as deputy exploration director. 
ed is a proven finder of hydrocarbons and 
we are confident that he will be a valuable 
member of the team. 
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (“LTIP”) AND 
SHARE OPTION SCHEME
A lti P has been designed to incentivise the 
executive team. details of the scheme are set 
out in a separate circular, which is intended to  
be posted to shareholders shortly for their 
consideration at an egm, to be held on  
6 december 2006, immediately prior to  
our Agm. 
currently, only executive directors are 
being offered ltiPs under this scheme; the 
previously approved share option scheme 
remains in place for all other employees.
NOMINATED ADVISER AND BROKER
with effect from 2 November 2006, the  
broker to bowleven is Hoare govett limited  
(a subsidiary of the AbN-Amro group) and, 
with effect from 6 december 2006, the position 
of Nominated Adviser to the company will also 
change to Hoare govett.
0 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT bowleveN Plc ANNuAl rePort & A ccouNts 2006
STRATEGIC 
ALLIANCE WITH 
SUNTERA AGREED
t He grou P mANAgeme Nt bo Ard will focus oN 
ge Ner Ati Ng vAlue from t He existi Ng Asset bAse ANd 
from New oPPortu Nities for cor Por Ate growt H whilst i am pleased to announce the 
appointment of Hoare govett, it is with some 
sadness that we are changing the advisory and 
broking relationship. Noble & c ompany (“Noble”) 
were appointed financial advisers to bowl even 
in 1998 and, despite several difficult years, when 
they were not being fully rewarded for their 
efforts, they persevered with bowl even and 
sponsored the c ompany to list its shares on the 
Aim market in december 2004. 
Noble’s broking arm also raised in excess of  
£87 million of new funds for the company in 
2004/05, and shareholders should be very 
grateful for the loyalty, commitment and 
dedication that Noble gave to the company  
over the past several years.
STRATEGIC ALLIANCE, SUNTERA
on 3 July 2006, suntera resources limited 
(“suntera”), a joint venture owned 50% by sun 
energy limited and 50% by itera oil & gas 
llc, acquired a 13% interest in the company, 
through a placing of 4,438,000 new ordinary 
shares at approximately 245 pence each, for 
a cost of £10.9 million. this investment by 
suntera is the basis of an important strategic 
alliance for bowleven. suntera, which has 
considerable experience in monetising gas 
assets, has built up a strong knowledge base 
and solid relationships in west Africa, and 
aims to help the bowleven group to secure 
new opportunities in the region. the strategic 
alliance with suntera can help bowleven to 
deliver its longer-term strategic objectives. 
FINANCIAL RESULTS
the group reported a loss of £1.7 million for 
the 12 months ended 30 June 2006. the main 
contributor to the loss was administrative 
expenses, as the group expanded operations 
to properly carry out its work programme and 
exploit the potential of the etinde Permit.
the company, which had £42.5 million of cash 
at bank at year end, as further supplemented 
by the £10.9 million share placing to suntera, 
has the financial resources to fulfil its 
2007 capital investment plans and drilling 
programme.  
some £5 million has been spent since  
30 June, on 3d seismic acquisition, processing 
and interpretation, which should prove to be a 
significant asset to the group. 
RESERVES & CONTINGENT RESOURCES
in accordance with the london stock 
exchange’s recently published Aim guidelines 
for resources companies, bowleven 
summarises, from the competent Person’s 
report, its recoverable hydrocarbon reserves 
and contingent resources on page 10.
these figures, which were independently 
assessed by scott Pickford, are expanded upon 
in more detail in the chief operating officer’s 
statement.
OUTLOOK
despite the drilling of two unsuccessful wells  
in 2005, the stated hydrocarbon asset base 
of the group has not materially changed 
since the listing of bowleven’s shares on Aim 
two years ago. the potential to exploit these 
recoverable reserves and contingent resources 
remains intact, and i am confident that the 
management team will do so.
the exploration potential of the etinde 
Permit remains; blocks mlHP-5 and 6 have 
the potential for discovery of substantial 
hydrocarbon reserves and resources, with 
consequent benefits for shareholder value. 
t he board and management team have been 
strengthened and this team has the undoubted 
potential to drive the c ompany forward to 
success.
t erry Heneaghan
executive chairman
2 November 2006
EXPLORATION POTENTIAL
REMAINS EXCITING
Assets
Rio Del
Rey Basin
Malabo
MLHP-7
MLHP-6
MLHP-5
Kribi
Douala
Limbe
Alba
Km
0               25               50                                 100
Alba Pipeline
Etinde Permits
MHLP-5,6 and 7
Equatorial 
Guinea border
Nigerian border
Field discoveries
Chad Cameroon
Pipeline
Gulf of Guinea
Cameroon
ETINDE PERMIT
k m
0
               
25
               
50
                                 
100
0 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT bowleveN Plc ANNuAl rePort & A ccouNts 2006
