 European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
7 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW 
 
On behalf of the Directors I am pleased to present my review of the year, as part of our Strategic Report.  
 
 
Our Strategy 
 
EIIB is a London listed asset management and financing group focused on the growth markets of the GCC 
countries. EIIB is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority in the United Kingdom and also regulated in Egypt, 
Oman and the United Arab Emirates. EIIB’s primary focus is to provide investment management and financing 
solutions to pension funds, family groups, corporations and financial and government institutions. 
 
The activities of the Group include investment management solutions encompassing equities, fixed income and 
alternatives; investment banking services encompassing provision of financing, debt capital markets and structured 
finance; and business advisory services. 
 
EIIB's business strategy is to develop as a specialist asset management and financing business, offering clients 
bespoke solutions focused on the growth markets of the GCC. The Group’s aim is to be a catalyst for consolidation 
in the GCC asset management industry and to achieve a market leading position. 
 
Given our market positon in the GCC we have also developed world class expertise in Islamic Finance. The key 
principles of Islamic finance are based on ethical real economy transactions, thus Islamic finance transactions 
avoid the following: 
 
 Interest or the trading of intangible assets and cash flows relating to such activities 
 Uncertainty 
 Speculation 
 Unjust enrichment or unfair exploitation  
 
As we look forward, we will continue to invest in innovative product development, distribution capabilities, further 
strengthening of the team and strategic or bolt-on acquisitions as appropriate.  
 
Results 
 
The financial statements for the reporting year ended 31 December 2014 are shown on pages 27 to 87.  
 
I am pleased to report that the results for 2014 reflect continued strengthening of our business, despite challenging 
market conditions in the second half of the year. Total operating income increased to £10.8m (2013 £10.2m), 
which, combined with continued tight cost control, delivered an underlying operating profit before tax from 
continued operations of £1.50m (2013: £1.48m). 
 
The net profit including non-controlling interest in 2014 amounted to £0.60m (2013 loss of £0.03m) after tax 
expense of £0.79m (2013: £0.26m) and loss on discontinued operations of £0.12m (2013 £1.25m). 
 
Our Asset Management business performed strongly this year, with higher levels of performance fees than last 
year. Our assets under management have remained broadly flat despite challenging market conditions in the GCC, 
particularly in the second half of the year. Considering market conditions, this is a highly creditable performance. 
 
Whilst we maintained good performance in our flagship funds, new alternative strategies have positioned us well 
for the years ahead as we diversify our product offering.   
 
We continued to build our Investment Banking business and further awards are testament to the level of in-house 
expertise we have developed.  
 
The Group maintained its strong capital adequacy, regulatory and liquidity ratios. The Regulatory Capital of the 
Group at 31 December 2014 stood at £102m (£101m at 31 December 2013). 
 
Our change in regulatory permissions, covered in more detail below, has not diminished the importance of 
maintaining tight controls and transparency around capital and liquidity. 
 
  European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
8 
 
Regulation 
 
During 2014 we gained authorisation from the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) to amend our regulatory 
permissions and relinquished our UK deposit-taking licence at the end of 2014. We are now solo regulated in the 
UK by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and by local regulators in the UAE, Oman and Egypt.  
 
Changing our regulatory permissions was a complex project and a significant step in aligning our permissions with 
our operating model. 
 
Brand franchise 
 
We started a review of the Group’s branding and plan to complete this work during 2015. We aim to achieve a 
clear, recognisable and valued brand name for the Group and its operating companies. A re-launch will help bring 
market clarity and definition around who we are and what we do. 
 
Asset Management 
 
While Assets Under Management (AUM) remained broadly constant during the year, this masks a good 
performance in the face of challenging markets. The business attracted approximately $300m in new subscriptions 
during the year which were offset by redemptions and market and foreign exchange movements. We saw a 
significant correction in the equity markets, across the GCC and wider MENA region, in the latter part of the year, 
with concurrent interest rate uncertainties. Many of our investors sought to exit traditional strategies and rotate into 
alternative investment strategies. The diversification of our product offering has helped us to retain AUM and 
consolidate our market share in the UAE.  
 
During 2014, we completed the successful re-domiciliation of a selection of our funds to Luxembourg. A broad, 
Luxembourg-domiciled fund offering is important for our global distribution strategy, boosting the funds' appeal to 
both international and regional third-party distributors and investors. Investors increasingly recognize Luxembourg 
as one of the most attractive and cost effective jurisdictions for the domicile of funds.   
 
Product Development 
 
We continued to build and enhance our product offering. We added the Rasmala GCC Islamic Equity Income Fund 
and the Rasmala Global Sukuk Fund to complement our flagship products, Rasmala Arabian Markets Growth 
Equity Fund and the Rasmala GCC Fixed Income Fund. We have also responded to client demand for alternative 
investment strategies by launching the Rasmala Trade Finance Fund (“RTFF”) and the Rasmala Leasing Fund 
(“RLF”). RTFF is a Sharia’a compliant open-ended fund providing investors with a low volatility money market 
alterative that is linked to emerging market trade transactions and aims to benefit from the rapid growth of global 
trade. RLF is a Sharia’a compliant fund established to capture investment performance in the US leasing market.  
 
Strategically, these investment products allow us to retain any outbound investment flows from clients seeking 
alternative investment ideas. We believe there is a market opportunity for us to offer our GCC client base unique, 
Sharia’a compliant, investment products investing in international markets in addition to catering to investor 
requirements in MENA investment markets. 
 
Strong Performance and Industry Recognition  
 
Overall investment performance remained strong compared to both our competitors and industry-recognised 
benchmarks. The Rasmala Arabian Markets Growth Equity Fund returned 10.1% (net of all fees and expenses) 
compared to the S&P Pan Arab Composite Large Mid Cap Index return of -0.9%.  This builds upon the fund's long-
term track record, which stands at an annualized outperformance of 8.75% since inception in 2006.  
 
The Rasmala GCC Fixed Income Fund returned 6.7% (net of all fees and expenses) despite the global fixed 
income headwinds and compared to the Citigroup MENA Broad Bond Index GCC return of 6.9%, also extending 
that fund’s long-term track record of annualized outperformance of 2.67% since inception in 2009. 
 
In addition all of our mutual funds and discretionary portfolio mandates outperformed their respective benchmarks 
in 2014.  
 
The response from our existing client base has been encouragingly positive as many of them increased assets 
under management with us during the year.  
  European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
9 
 
We have also attracted new client mandates, including our second discretionary managed portfolio from a 
government institution in Oman. In 2015 our objective is to win similar mandates from government institutions in 
other GCC countries. 
 
There is growing demand for our products and we will continue to drive growth by recruiting proven talent and 
increasing our product range. 
 
In 2014, Morningstar awarded the Rasmala Arabian Markets Growth Equity Fund with the coveted five star rating 
based upon its investment performance over the past 3 years. Also, in 2014, Global ISF awarded Rasmala the 
Sharia Fund Manager of the Year. 
 
Such industry recognition is evidence of Rasmala’s continued success in investment performance, product 
innovation, and serving the needs of our local client base. 
 
Rasmala was recently ranked as the 15th largest asset management firm in the Middle East by New York based 
Institutional Investor, and ranked within the top independent asset management firms if commercial banks were 
excluded from the list. 
 
 
Investment Banking 
 
Traditionally, domestic and regional institutions have acted as distributors of financial products to their customers, 
relying upon partnerships with bulge bracket firms for product structuring expertise. In contrast, EIIB has continued 
building on its proven ability to manufacture products in its own right. The investment banking (IB) team structured 
and placed products during the year that showcased the Group’s skill set in debt capital markets. 
 
In March 2014, we successfully acted as lead arranger and book runner for European-based multinational 
insurance group FWU Group on the second tranche of their sukuk al-wakala programme. This second tranche of 
US$40m was part of a US$100m programme and was rated BBB by Fitch. This was a unique asset backed 
transaction involving a European corporate issuing rated paper via the sukuk markets.  
 
The transaction helped the Group to win the award for ‘Best Islamic Institution in Europe’ for the second year in a 
row.      
 
In parallel with developing cutting-edge solutions for our clients in sukuk, the IB team has been instrumental in 
generating value for the Group through evaluating other investment opportunities, both for the Group’s proprietary 
book and for asset management clients.   
 
For example, during 2014, IB arranged the placement of securities in Emirates REIT and worked closely with asset 
management to evaluate opportunities for the Rasmala Trade Finance Fund.  The IB team also established a 
strategy for real estate and leasing and began evaluating opportunities towards the end of 2014. 
 
The IB team looks beyond mere replication of conventional financing structures through the application of Sharia’a 
‘wrappers’ and other synthetic structures, and instead focuses on first principles of Islamic finance.  
 
We see these products and services as being a growth area as capital from the GCC region flows into the 
international markets.  
 
Principal Investments 
 
Principal Investments (PI) main focus is to invest in opportunities that align with our strategy and business model. 
 
The PI business unit provides seed funding for new Asset Management products and for Investment Banking 
transactions. 
 
PI also manages our private equity investments.  Whilst there has been no change in these investments during 
2014, we continue to proactively manage our exposures.  
 
Our book exposure is now £16.7m (2013: £15.9m), which includes our private equity assets across the group.  
 
We continue to seek exits from our private equity investments and are determined to optimise the returns from our 
exits.  European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
10 
 
 
Market Review 
 
We believe the markets of the GCC region offer favourable prospects despite headwinds from lower oil prices and 
regional geo-political uncertainties. GCC countries have high growth rates with significant sovereign wealth, high 
levels of infrastructure spending, rising income and positive demographics which will continue to drive long-term 
growth in the region.  
 
In the short term the price of oil, having declined by about 55% since September 2014, has weakened the external 
and fiscal balances of oil exporters, including members of the GCC. Stock markets of various countries, including 
Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and UAE, declined sharply in late 2014 because of concern over how these economies will 
be affected by lower oil prices. However, large capital buffers, low non-performing loans and generally high liquidity 
should allow most GCC countries to avoid sharp cuts in government spending, limiting the impact on near-term 
growth and financial stability.   
 
The IMF predicts GDP growth of 3.4% in 2015 for the GCC overall, slightly lower as compared to 3.7% in 2014.   
 
There is continued regional demand for sukuk and credit-based products, and ample liquidity within the regional 
banking sector.  We expect reasonable performance from regional credit markets assuming that external shocks 
are manageable and global rates curves rise within current consensus expectations.  Islamic Finance markets are 
becoming increasingly accepted and attractive among mainstream capital markets for corporates, financial 
institutions and sovereigns around the globe.  Over the past few years, Islamic Finance assets grew at an annual 
rate of 15% to 20% which is expected to continue over the medium to long term.  This growth will be further fuelled 
by greater liquidity and better price formation. 
 
We believe a rebound in confidence in the GCC stock markets will occur in 2015 should regional tensions between 
Saudi Arabia and Yemen subside. However, we do not anticipate the same degree of abnormal returns from 
regional equity markets as in 2013 or through most of 2014.   
 
Last year, the global index compiler MSCI upgraded UAE and Qatar to Emerging Market status from Frontier 
Market and there were indications that foreign investors could gain access to Saudi Arabia’s Tadawul in 2015. The 
liberalisation of a US$500-600bn equity market is an important development in building momentum for the Gulf 
region as a destination for equity investment in the longer term.  
 
Tender offer 
A tender offer was launched in 2014 and later withdrawn as the Company remained in discussions with its 
regulators regarding the implementation of that offer. Those discussions have now been concluded satisfactorily 
and a circular explaining the terms of a new tender offer was posted to shareholders on 17 April 2015 and is 
expected to close on 6 May 2015.  
 
Future Developments 
 
Our fundamental belief in the GCC region and our ability to play a key role in its economic development and growth 
allows us to look forward with optimism. 
 
Our clearly defined business model, exceptional local reputation through Rasmala, coupled with committed and 
hardworking staff reaffirms our belief that EIIB is well placed for growth. 
 
Whilst we continue to focus on organic growth we will also continue to monitor acquisition opportunities that align 
and will add value to our franchise and business model. 
 
   European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
11 
 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
2014 is the second year of profit for the Group and underlines the rapid success we have had in turning around the 
Group and implementing a revised strategy. We look forward to 2015 with confidence as we further diversify our 
product offering and leverage from the foundations put in place to drive growth and profit. 
 
We have a stable and high-performing team across the Group – I would like to thank all of our staff for their 
continuing contribution to our success. I would also like to thank the Chairman and the Board for their counsel and 
support during the year. 
 
 
 
____________________ 
Zulfi Caar Hydari  
Chief Executive Officer 
 
 
  
