 European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
4 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
 
I am pleased to report a second year of profit that is attributable to equity holders, despite the challenging 
economic climate in the latter part of the year. In 2014 we consolidated our position as a leading asset 
management and financing group in the MENA region. 
 
Further progress 
 
In 2014, we made steady progress, building on the groundwork of the previous year. We expanded further our 
product offering to include alternative strategies and achieved this whilst maintaining control over our cost base.  
 
This disciplined and focused approach has enabled the Group to report a second successive profit in 2014, while 
continuing to invest in the growth initiatives necessary to achieve our five year plan.  
 
Performance 
 
The Group’s operating income increased to £10.8m (2013 £10.2m) with a particularly strong performance from our 
asset management business. The second half of the year saw significant volatility in GCC markets, which we have 
been able to navigate.  Our cost base increased slightly, but remained effectively controlled. 
 
A second year of stable profit is a clear demonstration that we continue to move in the right direction and we will 
continue to invest in our platform and people to ensure continued progress. 
 
Market developments 
 
In the second half of 2014 the GCC countries experienced strong headwinds as a result of falling oil prices and 
rising political uncertainty. Stock markets in the region fell in line with these concerns. Despite these challenges, we 
believe stable governments, as evidenced by the smooth transition of power in Saudi Arabia, high growth rates and 
a combination of sovereign wealth and demographics will continue to translate into long-term growth for the region.  
 
Meanwhile, the benefits of an Islamic approach to finance are increasingly being appreciated across developed 
and growth markets.  
 
Our Chief Executive Officer expands on our market views on page 10, but I believe that the Group is well 
positioned to benefit from the opportunities in our core markets. 
 
Regulation 
 
The Board undertook a review of the scope of EIIB’s UK regulatory permissions and concluded that they exceeded 
our requirements. Following detailed discussions with the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), the PRA authorised the amending of our permissions and we were able to relinquish the 
Group’s deposit-taking license. We are now solely regulated by the FCA in the United Kingdom and by local 
regulators in Egypt, Oman and the United Arab Emirates. The Group’s regulation is now more efficiently aligned to 
its strategy and business model.  
 
 
Corporate Governance 
 
The Group continually assesses corporate governance and its effectiveness, independence and efficiency. Board 
performance is also evaluated annually. 
 
The Board contains a suitable majority of non-executive and independent directors with a wide range of skills and 
experience relevant to EIIB’s business. Biographies of the Directors and details of the Board and its committees 
can be found on pages 18 to 21. There were no Board changes made during the year.  
 
We will continue to review the Board’s membership, its performance, its committees’ performance and that of 
individual board members to ensure the Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of skills, 
experience and independence.  
 
 
  European Islamic Investment Bank plc  
 
5 
 
Tender offer 
 
A tender offer was launched on 1 August 2014, and withdrawn on 28 November 2014 as the Company remained in 
discussions with its regulators regarding the implementation of that offer. Those discussions have now been 
concluded satisfactorily. 
 
A circular explaining the terms of a new tender offer for up to £20 million was posted to shareholders on 17 April 
2015 and is expected to close on 6 May 2015. 
 
Outlook 
 
The Board has worked diligently in following our defined strategy of creating a market leading asset management 
and financing business focused on the GCC region.  
 
The GCC has shown remarkable resilience despite significant headwinds in 2014. We are confident that our 
business is well positioned to benefit from opportunities in our markets. I look forward to working with our expert 
staff, management team and board in achieving further positive results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 __________________________ 
Abdallah Y. Al-Mouallimi  
 
Chairman  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
