 08 SECTION HEADING
EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
GROUP CHIEF 
EXECUTIVE’S REPORT 09 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Despite a lacklustre start to 2016, global stock markets 
performed well over the year with the FTSE All Share Index 
increasing by 12.8% and the FTSE World Index increasing by 
26.2%. This was despite some significant turmoil in the political 
landscape during the second half of the year . Not only did 
stock markets have to weather the uncertainty surrounding 
the election of the President of the United States and its 
unexpected result, but also the somewhat surprise decision 
by the UK Electorate to vote in favour of Brexit. The political 
fallout of the latter initially caused a significant fall in the 
currency . Sterling weakness however , had a positive impact on 
the UK stock market which has such a strong representation 
of companies with high proportions of overseas earnings. The 
UK market was also underpinned by good economic growth 
figures compared to many other major economies particularly 
those in Continental Europe. 
Against this background, I am pleased to report that European 
Wealth has had a successful year pursuing its strategy of 
growth through classic organic growth, selective acquisitions 
of businesses and the addition of revenue-generating staff. As 
noted in the Chairman’ s Statement, funds under management 
have increased by 25% to £1.5bn. During the last 12 months, 
the two largest acquisitions were the T owry book of business 
which was mainly comprised of South African clients and 
CIMCO, the managers of a Gibraltar-based Absolute Return 
Fund, which has added approximately US$22m to the 
funds under management. The total amount of funds under 
management acquired during 2016 was £36m, the rest of the 
increase has been a result of organic growth. 
The financial performance of the Group over the last 12 months 
has also improved, justifying the confidence expr essed in our 
Interim Statement. These results have been boosted not only 
by revenue growth but also by further control of the cost base. 
The turnover in the investment management business has 
grown by 33% over the last 12 months, increasing to £6.1m 
(2015: £4.5m) primarily driven by increases in the revenue 
generated from discretionary portfolio management and the 
continued strong growth in our treasury and cash management 
services. The financial planning business was also able to record 
a 10% increase in turnover to £3.3m (2015: £3.0m); primarily 
driven by increases in income from general financial planning 
services and specialist tax planning. 
In the last two years, we have followed a deliberate policy of 
investing in our operational infrastructure which is now helping 
us control our costs and to absorb acquisitions. As we provide 
all the administration in-house, the Group’ s fixed cost base is 
understandably high, accounting for approximately 80% of the 
total operating costs. However , it does confer the advantage 
that any increase in revenue has a disproportionately positive 
impact on the profitability of the Group. 
Our total headcount continues to increase and reached 92 at 
the 31 December 2016. 
2016 2015
Number % Number %
Fee-Earning 39 42% 40 49%
Admininstration 53 58% 42 51%
Total 92 82
The numbers in the table above do not include the staff that 
have transferred over following our acquisition of the book 
of business from T owry which was announced in October 
2016. Whilst the transfer is taking longer than we originally 
anticipated, the staff of two investment managers and an 
assistant joined European Wealth at the end of February and 
the speed of client transfer is accelerating. It is your Board’ s 
intention to build a presence in South Africa to attract further 
funds under management both from local introducers and 
private individuals. 
The increase in the ratio of administration staff to fee-earners 
has been the result of a r estructuring within the financial 
planning business. A team of para planners, which we have 
included in administration staff, have been put in place to 
support the financial advisers. We expect this to have a positive 
effect on the amount of revenue that can be generated by each 
financial planner. 
One of the features of 2016 has been the increase in levels 
of organic growth. This will be further enhanced by the 
establishment of a dedicated business development function 
which will concentrate both on the cross-selling that can be 
achieved within the Group but also developing our range of 
external introducers both in the UK and overseas. 
Review of Divisions
European Wealth Group has two key divisions which allow 
the Group to offer a wide range of services within the wealth 
management industry .  EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
10 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
Investment Management 
The investment management division is made up of three core 
disciplines, discretionary portfolio management, treasury and 
cash management and a specialist execution-only dealing desk. 
Revenue from each division breaks down as follows: 
Discipline
2016 2015
£’000 % £’000 %
Discretionary 4,559 75% 3,473 77%
Treasury and Cash 
Management
864 14% 579 13%
Execution-only 661 11% 483 10%
 6,084 4,535
The discretionary portfolio management discipline has always 
been the backbone of the division providing discretionary and 
advisory multi-asset investment services to a broad range of 
clients. As the market becomes ever more competitive, it is 
important that European Wealth continues to offer clients a 
highly personal service and investment performance that meets 
their objectives. T o this end, it is pleasing that our investment 
performance remains strong and we continue to win industry 
awards. 
Within the investment management division, despite the low 
interest rate environment making profitable fixed interest 
investment challenging, our Fixed Interest team have, once 
again, been very successful in showing strong organic growth. 
The T eam won several new mandates, particularly in the 
university sector , increasing their funds under management 
from £345m at the end of 2015 to £475m at the end of 2016. 
Furthermore, I am pleased to report that the success has 
continued into 2017 and in the opening months of 2017, they 
have been awarded mandates over a further £200m together 
with some of the existing clients adding additional funds to 
their portfolios. The T reasury and Cash management team will 
continue to be in demand as the quest for low risk assets but 
with some positive return, continues. 
The earnings from the Dealing Desk will always be volatile and 
driven by trading activity in the stock markets. Nevertheless, 
your Board considers it to be a valuable source of revenue for 
the Group and an area that we expect to develop further as a 
certain segment of the client base continue to want to keep 
control of their assets and require a purely execution-only 
service. Despite margin pressure with the availability of online 
dealing services, the fact that we are clearing our own trades 
through an in-house back office facility allows us to keep our 
marginal cost as low as possible. 
Financial Planning 
The financial planning business is divided between three 
distinct disciplines, the revenue for each is as follows: 
Discipline
2016 2015
£’000 % £’000 %
General Planning 2,523 76% 2,227 72%
Group Pensions 558 17% 615 20%
Specialist Tax 
Planning
247 7% 249 8%
 3,328 3,091
We stated at the interim stage that we were introducing new 
procedures in our financial planning business and also were in 
the process of fully integrating the ISM and Bells acquisitions. 
The changes to the client charging structure which I referred 
to in my Chairman’ s Statement last year have continued in 
2016. Consequently , the shape of the revenue has continued 
to improve with the recurring revenue now accounting for 79% 
of total revenue (2015 – 72%). The Interim Report was very 
clear on the imperative to build recurring revenue as quickly as 
possible to provide the cash flow to invest in the high added 
value service necessary to grow the business and stay ahead of 
the competition.
General financial planning will always be a cornerstone of this 
business but increasingly we see growing demand for more 
specialist financial planning such as advising clients where to 
place their assets to take best advantage of current taxation 
legislation and, more importantly , to plan for retirement 
and structure their personal and family assets in the most 
appropriate way . There are good opportunities for cross-
referrals both within the financial planning business and the 
wider Group. 
The Balance Sheet
Since its inception, the Group has been, in part, funded by 
debt. At its admission to AIM in May 2014, much of that debt 
was consolidated in a convertible loan stock. Contemporaneous 
with these results, European Wealth has agreed terms to raise 
£9.3m of new capital. Not only will this provide the funds to 
redeem the bridge finance entered into on 7 June and all 
accrued interest thereon, it is also sufficient to enable the Group 
to repay other loans and satisfy all deferred consideration 
liabilities, leaving the Group debt free.
With the Group now firmly cash flow positive, and a 
strengthened balance sheet, European Wealth is better placed 
to face the future than at any time in its recent history .  11 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
Outlook 
The outlook for world economies and, consequently , stock 
markets would appear to be subject to more political 
influences than usual. Following the close election in the US, 
the complexities of Brexit, the recent elections in the UK and 
France, together with the election in Germany , which have and 
will continue to command the attention of politicians and the 
media, there is ample reason to believe there will be spells of 
volatility in stock markets. 
However , there is cause for some optimism. Except for a very 
small number of small emerging economies, the outlook is for 
all developed economies to grow and forecasts are for the UK 
economy to show the best growth rate in Europe and even 
surpass that of the US. Interest rates are likely to continue to 
increase moderately in the US and are unlikely to move at all 
in Europe. The UK may be an exception here but with Brexit 
it is unlikely to be anything other than a cosmetic nod to the 
rising inflation numbers. Inflation is reasonably under control 
in the major economies although the weakness of Sterling has 
started to impact the inflation numbers in the UK. Against this 
background, we view the future for investment returns with 
some confidence although there may be some correction 
following the recent strong run in markets. 
The continued uncertainty within the wealth management 
industry together with the ongoing challenges with the 
introduction of MiFID II at the beginning of 2018, will put 
pressure on the smaller fund management and financial 
planning companies. The increase in regulation is not 
restricted to the UK; regulation is also increasing within the 
financial services industry internationally. These dynamics are 
likely to lead to more consolidation and consequently the 
opportunity for further acquisitive growth, both domestically 
and internationally . The greatest challenge at the moment is to 
ensure that acquisitions are realistically priced, something your 
Board is finding an increasing challenge. 
Acquiring individuals or teams of people can sometimes be 
better than acquiring a whole company . The consolidation 
within the industry has resulted in a higher level of turnover 
amongst senior revenue generating staff and European Wealth 
has been able to take advantage of this uncertainty . We have 
already recruited two new revenue generators in the first three 
months of 2017 and expect them to be contributing to the 
Group’ s revenue in a very short space of time.
The Board believes that the demand for impartial financial 
planning and investment management advice will grow as 
individuals become more responsible for the funding of their 
retirement at a time when life expectancy is increasing. 
In conclusion, we are looking forward to the future with confidence; 
our balance sheet has been strengthened and we are on track for 
achieving our short-term target of £2.0bn of AUM. Finally , I would 
like to add my thanks to everybody associated with European 
Wealth for their continued commitment and determination over the 
last 12 months. The Board and all the staff within the Group remain 
determined to make European Wealth a growing name within the 
wealth management industry both across the UK and overseas.
A J Morton 
Group Chief Executive
