 06 SECTION HEADING
EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT 07 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
EUROPEAN WEALTH GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
2016 was a year of considerable growth and development 
for European Wealth. Our total funds under management 
increased by 25% to £1.5bn (2015: £1.2bn) and it is pleasing to 
note that this was achieved both through organic growth and 
our ongoing strategy of selective acquisitions. Since the year 
end our funds under management have increased further to 
over £1.65bn due to new mandates won in the current year and 
as a result of funds transferring under the T owry agreement.
This increase in funds under management was mirrored in the 
turnover for the Group, which reached £9.4m for the year to 
31 December 2016, an increase of 23% over the previous year 
(2015: £7.7m). At the interim stage, we commented that we 
believed that one of the key measures of performance was an 
increasing, positive EBITDA so it is pleasing to note that the 
Group recorded a positive EBITDA of £0.3m. Growth in the top 
line coupled with our focus on cost control saw the loss before 
tax reduce from £1.0m in 2015 to £0.8m for the year to 31 
December 2016.
Strategy 
The strategy of the Group continues to be to expand through 
three key channels, organic growth, selective acquisition 
and attracting additional revenue-generating staff. I have 
already commented above on the success we had last year in 
generating both organic and acquisitive growth. However , as 
highlighted in a trading statement earlier in the year , we believe 
that the cost of acquisitions within the investment management 
and financial planning industries has increased to a point where 
we feel selective recruitment of revenue-generating staff would 
be the most effective use of the company’ s capital in the short 
term. This should not be interpreted however , as our intention 
to walk away from the pursuit of selective acquisitions where we 
see a prudent, fairly priced acquisition which adds to the overall 
Group skill set and produces economies of scale from our 
already robust administration system.
The Board
In April 2016, Rod Gentry stepped down from the Board. 
Rod was an integral part of the team that created European 
Wealth and we are all grateful for his dedication over the 
years. Following Rod’ s departure, the Board reviewed the 
management structure of the business and the performance 
of certain parts of the Group. As a result, a number of changes 
were made. The role of Executive Chairman was split, with 
John Morton taking on the role of Group Chief Executive and I 
became Non-Executive Chairman. Underlining the importance 
of efficient, up to date and cost effective operations within the 
whole Group, Simon Ray our Group Chief Operating Officer 
has also been appointed to the Board. 
The regulatory obligations on the Board continue to increase 
with the ‘Senior Management Regime’ due to be implemented 
at the beginning of 2018. Whilst the Board recognise the 
need for individual accountability of Directors and Senior 
Management, we believe strongly in the collective responsibility 
of the Board, and the Executive Management T eam together 
with robust challenge by Non-Executive Directors. 
A number of projects and initiatives are being undertaken within 
the regulated businesses to both ensure that the Group is not 
only fully prepared for the introduction of MiFID II but that we 
also continue to review, improve and modernise the delivery of 
our service to clients however they may interact with the Group. 
Outlook 
The global economy and stock markets have a number of 
uncertainties to confront during 2017. American interest rates 
have continued their upward trend, more rises are expected in 
the current year and this trend will possibly spread over to other 
parts of the world impacting the bond markets. Meanwhile, US 
equity markets have hit record highs, driven by the economic 
promises of the new administration. Closer to home, the UK 
has to confront the challenges of Brexit and a shock UK election 
result, which are likely to cause periods of uncertainty both for 
the UK domestic economy and the stock markets in the UK and 
Continental Europe; where France has elected a new President 
and elections follow in many other European countries. It 
remains to be seen what impact all this will have on global stock 
markets that performed particularly well in the fourth quarter of 
2016 and have started the current year with optimism. 
Irrespective of these uncertainties, European Wealth is now 
well placed to continue its strategy for growth. The Group has 
secured £9.3m of new capital, which will fund the redemption 
of the bridging finance put in place on 7 June to facilitate the 
repayment of the convertible loan stock, repay other loans and 
leave the Group debt free. With a much-strengthened balance 
sheet, your Board now looks forward to taking advantage of the 
right opportunities when they emerge over the next year . 
Y our Board has always considered the culture of European 
Wealth to be one of the Group’ s main assets and something 
that we are committed to developing further as the Group 
grows. The correct culture within the Group will not only 
help the employees within the business, it will also result in a 
superior service to clients and, ultimately , greater rewards to 
shareholders. Within times of significant change in any industry, 
the more internal stability that can be provided to employees, 
the greater the chance of reducing staff turnover and of building 
loyalty amongst our staff and our client base. 
In closing, I would like to express my own thanks and those of 
all the members of the Board to our clients, shareholders and 
staff for their strong support for the Group.
Buzz West, Chairman 
June 2017
