 4 | The Evolution Group Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Chairman’s Statement
2002 was a year of
extraordinary development and
growth for the Group
Evolution Beeson Gregory
is now a fully functional
independent investment bank
Following my appointment as Chairman of The Evolution
Group Plc (“Evolution Group” or the “Group”) on 30
January 2003, I am delighted to be reporting the
progress that has been made by the Group. 2002 was a
year of extraordinary development and growth for the
Group. The scale and scope of the business at 31
December 2002 is very different from that of a year
earlier.
Alex Snow, the Group’s Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, is
responsible for all aspects of the Group’s operating
businesses and he provides, in his report which follows,
a full review of the year’s results. Two things are clear
from these results. Firstly, there have been signiﬁcant
items that are non-recurring in nature – provisions
against ﬁxed asset investments, redundancy and
restructuring costs, and the impairment of goodwill –
accounting for over £21 million of the overall loss.
Secondly, the performance of our operating businesses
was signiﬁcantly stronger in the second half than the ﬁrst,
as a result of the merger with the Beeson Gregory Group
in July 2002 and recognition of the related synergies.
Therefore as we entered 2003, the Group’s operating
businesses were all structured appropriately with their
costs aligned to the achievement of proﬁtability going
forward.
The Group’s merger totally changed our investment
banking platform. Evolution Beeson Gregory was created
and, following a signiﬁcant restructuring effort, is now a
fully functional independent investment bank servicing
the small and mid-cap sector. Christows continues its
strategy for growth and has returned to proﬁtability in
2002 following signiﬁcant restructuring in 2001. IP2IPO,
the Group’s Intellectual Property commercialisation
company, has made enormous progress in 2002 with the
signing of its second major University partnership with
the University of Southampton and the successful spin-
out of further companies. I would like to thank my
predecessor, Andrew Beeson, on behalf of the Board, for
helping to ensure the integration of the two groups went
smoothly and wish him well in his future endeavours. The Evolution Group Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2002 | 5
Outlook
2002 was a watershed year for the small and mid-cap
sector. The current trend has been for the large
integrated investment banks to withdraw from this end
of the market. This in turn has created signiﬁcant
opportunities for small, independent, well capitalised
companies, such as Evolution Beeson Gregory, who focus
exclusively on this area. We constantly strive to maintain
and improve our customer service and company
coverage to maximise the opportunities going forward. A
salary cap, along with a new equity participation scheme
for employees, ensures that management’s, employees’
and shareholders’ interests are aligned in creating capital
growth in the future. Christows has a similar opportunity
in its sector with its focus on client service and innovative
product offerings. Finally, IP2IPO looks forward to this
year as one in which it gains value from its unique and
totally leading edge access to the commercialisation
opportunities through its University partnership
agreements.
The Board recognises that all of the businesses in which
we operate are people businesses, where our primary
assets are our people. The last year has been one where
our staff have demonstrated real commitment in what
have been circumstances of internal restructuring against
a background of external market turmoil. I should like to
take this opportunity to thank everyone for these efforts
that move us toward the achievement of our goals. The
Group has a very clear and achievable strategy - revenue
maximisation, strict cost management and asset
realisation achieved in a timely and proactive fashion. 
The Group has traded proﬁtably in the ﬁrst quarter of
2003 on a consolidated operating basis. The Board looks
forward to the future with conﬁdence and conviction. 
Richard Grifﬁths
Chairman
22 April 2003
Christows has returned to
proﬁtability in 2002
IP2IPO enjoyed progress by
signing second major university
partnership
