 6 | The Evolution Group Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2002
Review of the year
Investment banking
At the start of 2002, we had just commenced trading as
Evolution Capital, a newly established and regulated
company with nascent equity sales, trading and research
functions. The brand was quickly established and
revenues developed over the ﬁrst few months of the year
as we set about providing our institutional clients with
the service they wanted. It was clear as we announced
last year’s results that the sector offering investment
banking services to small and mid cap companies was
one where change and consolidation were inevitable.
We established our strategy to set about leading this
development and identiﬁed the established business of
Beeson Gregory Group as one where opportunities as a
business combination were maximised. The offer by the
Group to acquire the entire share capital of Beeson
Gregory became unconditional on 11 July 2002 and from
that point forward we set about achieving our goals of
integrating the two companies to form Evolution Beeson
Gregory, rationalising the cost base and growing the
revenue line.
The integration process was largely completed by the
year end with annualised ongoing costs reduced from a
combined level of £15m at completion to £10m
currently. A major part of this saving was achieved by
reducing the combined headcount from 128 at
completion to 84 at 31 December 2002 and introducing
caps to salaries, which signiﬁcantly reduced the average
salary levels across the company. At the same time we
have reviewed the equity participation available to our
key staff and implemented at the beginning of 2003 the
Key Performers’ Share Incentive Plan. Revenue growth
has also been achieved and the combined business
produced revenue in the second half of 2002 of £7.5m,
which was in excess of our budgets against a background
of extraordinarily difﬁcult market conditions. 
Evolution Beeson Gregory has continued to grow its
portfolio of retained corporate broking and advisory
clients over the course of the second half of 2002. In
total, 16 new retained corporate clients were added.
Evolution Beeson Gregory had 104 retained corporate
clients at the end of the year. The retainer income
derived from these corporate clients totals over 25% of
the projected overall investment banking annual cost
base. As the wholesale withdrawal from the small and
mid-cap marketplace continues by the global investment
banks, it is expected that the rate of growth of new
corporate clients will be maintained. 
A key area of synergy arising from the merger resulted
from Evolution Capital’s secondary market expertise. The
combined secondary market sales commission revenue
has grown sharply during a period when transaction
volumes and transaction value in the small and mid-cap
market have reduced sharply. Indeed, ofﬁcial market
share data conﬁrms that Evolution Beeson Gregory’s
market share has risen signiﬁcantly in the FTSE Fledgling,
FTSE small-cap and FTSE 250.
Private client stockbroking and fund
management
Christows’ overall performance during 2002 was
impressive when compared with a year earlier and,
against the background market conditions, this is
particularly encouraging. The overall result was a
retained proﬁt of £0.2m compared with a loss of £2.0m
for 2001, a turnaround of £2.2m. Within this overall
performance the revenue from all classes of transaction
based commissions and management fees have clearly
been under pressure as the conditions in the underlying
equity markets took their effect. However, we were able
to maintain the revenue against the previous year’s level
by the introduction of new clients bringing signiﬁcant
new discretionary funds under management. 
These came principally via our continued drive of sales
through the intermediary market of independent
ﬁnancial advisers with new funds of £54m being
introduced compared with £44m in 2001 from this
source. Sales to this market comprise the very successful
Private Portfolio Account and also, since its introduction
in November 2002, the Multi-Manager Portfolio Service.
We have continued through the year to focus extremely
Chief Executive’s Report The Evolution Group Plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2002 | 7
hard on cost management. We have worked with our
outsourced service providers to reduce the costs of our
business at current volume levels and to provide for
reduced marginal costs as transaction volumes grow.
Christows continues to attract new discretionary funds
under management and the launch of our Multi-Manager
Portfolio Service widens our product offering. The
concentration of effort continues to offer a traditional
private client service, whilst striving to offer new
innovative products to our growing client base.
IP2IPO
At the end of 2002, the Group had a majority stake
totalling 84% in IP2IPO Group Limited (“IP2IPO”), an
Intellectual Property commercialisation company. 
IP2IPO has continued through the second half of 2002 to
make enormous progress in the creation and
development of spin out ventures from its two university
partnerships with Oxford University’s chemistry
department and The University of Southampton.
The three spin-outs completed in the second half of
2002; Glycoform, Capsant Neurotechnologies and
Southampton Polypeptides, added to those previously
established give IP2IPO signiﬁcant equity stakes in a total
of seven companies at the end of the year, derived from
its two partnerships. There is no doubt that IP2IPO offers
the Group a strong pipeline of assets spun-out of
universities for a signiﬁcant period of time and these
provide both capital appreciation and corporate advisory
revenue opportunities to the Group.
IP2IPO has many unique features. The exclusive
ownership of long term intellectual property assets from
Oxford University’s chemistry department and The
University of Southampton has enormous, as yet
unrealised, value. The embedded value of the existing
intellectual property in these two institutions is
substantial. In addition, the ongoing spend by third
parties develops even more leading edge intellectual
property, creating further commercial opportunities.
We are very conﬁdent that IP2IPO will deliver substantial
value for shareholders.
Non-recurring costs
Within 2002 there were signiﬁcant exceptional costs that
the Board does not expect to be repeated. The most
signiﬁcant of these is the impairment charge of £10.9m
against the goodwill arising on the acquisition of the
Beeson Gregory Group. As we detailed in the circular at
the time of the Group’s share capital reduction process
in November 2002, this revaluation principally resulted
from the extreme downward movements in investment
banking shares that occurred after the transaction was
completed, together with a reduction in the valuations
ascribed to certain private equity assets within Beeson
Gregory’s portfolio. 
The restructuring costs within the Group totalled £1.3m,
consisting of a redundancy programme, professional fees
associated with streamlining the Group’s legal entities
following the merger and costs of arranging the share
capital reduction process.
Investment Provisions
The Board outlined at the half year results and in
November’s circular that the valuations of the Group’s
legacy investments in private equity ventures had been
signiﬁcantly reduced. In total for the full year we have
made further provisions during 2002 of £4.5m and at the
year end the portfolio has a value of £1.5m. As we have
stated, the Group is now no longer actively involved in
principal private equity investment and will simply seek
to extract some value from exits from this portfolio.
Events subsequent to the year end have shown that the
value of the Group’s investment in Inter-Alliance Group
Plc has been reduced and the Board has decided it is
prudent to recognise a write off of £4.5m as at the
balance sheet date.
Balance sheet strength
The Group continues to maintain its focus on the
strength of its balance sheet. As at 31 December 2002,
the Group had a cash balance of £32m, had taken all
steps to ensure ﬁxed asset investments were fully
provided for where appropriate and performed an
impairment review of its goodwill balances. 
Alex Snow
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
22 April 2003
