 The Evolution Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2009 6
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to report such excellent results for the Group. In my 
report last year I said we believed the challenging market and economic 
conditions experienced in 2008 would continue throughout 2009. 
To a large extent, 2009 unfolded in line with this premise. Financial 
markets stabilised after worldwide Government backed rescues of 
troubled banks combined with unprecedented injections of liquidity 
into financial markets by several Central Banks through the policy 
of quantitative easing. 
Risk appetite, almost non-existent at the end of 2008 and early in 
2009, has somewhat returned as a result, although it has remained 
volatile throughout 2009 and indeed into the early months of this 
year, as investor sentiment remains highly sensitive to further 
shocks, such as Sovereign default risk.
Against this backdrop the Group has begun to deliver impressive 
growth in income and profitability. I said last year that our strategy 
would enable us to take advantage of opportunities as they arose,  
to continue to recruit quality people and to invest in new income 
streams. The Group has been able to progress this strategy in 2009 
and completed two significant investments in the development of  
the fixed income agency business and the large-cap equity business. 
Both these investments add significant potential for the Group to 
grow further in the future.
As I write, financial and economic conditions remain challenging 
with the additional uncertainty presented by the political agendas 
surrounding the elections in both the UK and the US in 2010.  
We do, however, see some signs that risk appetite is continuing  
to improve gradually. We are hopeful that politicians and policy 
makers in general can maintain and encourage a stable and consistent 
macro environment, specifically with regard to inflation, interest 
rates, taxation and regulation, conducive to continued growth in 
activity across all areas of the economy.
B o a r d 	C h a n g e s
I am pleased to announce that we have made further progress in 
strengthening the Group’s Board. Andrew Westenberger was appointed 
as Group Finance Director on 8 April 2009; Chris Chambers joined 
as a Non-Executive Director on 3 November 2009 and Roger Perkin 
joined as a Non-Executive Director on 27 January 2010. All three 
have made valuable contributions to the management of the Group. 
Roger Perkin replaced Nick Irens who resigned on 31 December 
2009 as Chairman of the Audit committee. Andrew Umbers also 
resigned from the Board on 3 February 2010. We wish them both 
well and thank them for their significant contributions to the success 
of the Group over the past few years. As well as these Group Board 
changes, a new Chief Executive Officer for Williams de Broë Limited, 
Philip Howell, joined the Group in March 2010.  
As ever, a key decision for us is how to reward (both to retain and 
motivate) the key people for the future success of the Group. Accordingly, 
the Group has put in place new long term partnership equity plans, 
both for the Group Executives and senior employees within our operating 
divisions. These plans were designed after extensive consultation with 
our major shareholders and were approved at an EGM on 22 January 
2010. During the year we have continued to recruit very high calibre 
people and will continue to do so. Our staff have managed our business 
in a very impressive way and once again I thank them all for their 
professionalism and their commitment. 
O u t l o o k
In summary, I believe the Group remains better placed than ever to face 
the challenges ahead and deliver continued growth to our shareholders.
M a r t i n 	G r a y
Chairman
25 March 2010
