 4
Results
For the year 2008, the Company recorded an underlying
profit after tax attributable to shareholders of £38.3 million.
This compares to underlying profit after tax of £50.2 million in
2007. Underlying earnings per share were 7.8 pence versus
the 10.4 pence reported in 2007. The movement in underlying
profit primarily reflects the impact that lower market levels
have had on the Group’s revenues, the effect of which has
been partially offset by the benefits of a series of cost
reduction initiatives. Reported earnings by contrast show a
loss. As a result of severe market declines, we have taken an
impairment charge of £48.3 million on the value of
management contracts acquired by the Company in 2002
and 2004, in addition to an amortisation charge of
£48.9 million for the year. These are non-cash items which,
together with a number of other exceptional charges taken at
year end, result in an after tax loss on a reported basis of
£50.5 million. More details are of course given in the
accompanying CEO report.
Strategy and Corporate Developments
In 2008, the Company was to have focused on “year two” of
its previously detailed three-year plan. Although the plan
objectives remain valid, the original timetable for their
achievement does not. Two major events have impacted
the trajectory. 
The first event was the continuous dislocation within the
global financial market. Stock market declines and liquidity
constraints have lowered client portfolio values and sapped
investor confidence. The result for the industry generally is
lower asset levels and consequently reduced revenue
streams. Given the certainty of lower revenue short-term and
market uncertainties longer term, our management quite
rightly cut back, first on planned expenditure and
subsequently on absolute levels of costs.
The second factor has been the corporate uncertainty
surrounding our ownership structure. In January 2008, our
majority shareholder Friends Provident (FP) completed its
strategic review and concluded that wealth management was
no longer core to its business. FP has been and remains
supportive. However, in exploring alternatives, F&C found
itself technically in an “offer period” which lasted more than
12 months. The question marks surrounding the shareholding
inevitably had some adverse impact on our asset gathering
efforts, and therefore new revenue generation. FP has
reconfirmed its intention to distribute its shareholding in F&C
to the FP shareholder base. The result will be a broader
shareholder base and a truly independent listed F&C.
Market Outlook
There has never been a credit crunch without an economic
downturn. There has never been an economic downturn
without rising unemployment, higher default rates, and stock
market declines. The credit bubble which has now burst
represented one of the larger in history. Bubbles are not new,
but this particular excess was distinguished by
unprecedented levels of leverage. We are now well into the
“great unwind”. Since we do not know how much leverage
there was in the system to begin with, no one can know for
sure when the de-leveraging process will end. At times like
Chairman’s Statement 5
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
these it is important to remember there have always been
times like these. But end they will. Markets can go up as well
as down. 
Dividend 
The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend of
4.0 pence, payable on 28 May 2009 to shareholders on the
register at 17 April 2009. 
Board Developments
Jim Smart, formerly Chief Financial Officer of FP, stepped
down from the Board in August 2008 upon leaving the Board
of FP. We thank Jim for his contribution during his tenure and
wish him well. Trevor Matthews, Chief Executive Officer of
FP, replaced Jim Smart on the Board of F&C in August 2008.
He joined as a non-Executive, non-Independent Director.
Dick de Beus, an Independent non-Executive Director, has
indicated his intention to retire from the Board on conclusion
of the Annual General Meeting in May 2009. Dick has served
on the Board since the merger in 2004 and his experience,
particularly relating to our business interests in The
Netherlands, has been invaluable. Dick will be missed and we
wish him well. 
I have commented earlier on FP’s continued intention to
divest its 52 per cent. interest in the Company’s shares. As
and when that divestment takes effect, Sir Adrian Montague
and Trevor Matthews, FP’s nominated shareholder
representatives on the Board, will retire from the Board. We
thank both for their guidance and support in their capacity as
directors and shareholder representatives and look forward
to a continued close relationship in their capacity as client.
With ownership issues likely to be resolved shortly and the
offer period at an end, I have decided to take the opportunity
to retire as Chairman of the Company at the end of the AGM
in May. Nick MacAndrew, Independent non-Executive
director since May 2007 has been chosen by the Board to
succeed me as Chairman. He is an outstanding choice. As
you will note from his biography in the Annual Report, Nick is
both an experienced Chairman and an experienced financier.
There will be no change to the Chairs of either Audit or
Remuneration Committee, nor to the Senior Independent
Director thereby ensuring continuity and a smooth transition.
I would like to thank my colleagues, our clients and the many
other supporters in the industry for the kindness, help and
guidance they have extended to me and this great institution
over the years. 
Robert Jenkins
Chairman
10 March 2009
