 Market Overview
As we anticipated in our 2009 Annual Report, 2010 saw a slow
recovery in the economy after the recession of the previous year,
with progress dogged by concerns over rising inflation and the
potentially stifling impact of deficit reduction measures on growth. 
Despite the challenging macroeconomic backdrop, equity markets
continued to make strong progress for a second calendar year in
succession with the FTSE 100 Index posting a total return of 
12.6 per cent. and numerous indices returning to pre-credit crisis
levels. This strong performance from equity markets reflected the
healthy position of many companies having strengthened their
balance sheets and the relative attractiveness of dividends
compared to government bond yields. 
In contrast, fixed income markets and the Euro currency were
overshadowed by the spectre of government indebtedness and the
risk of defaults in European countries such as Greece, Ireland and
Portugal. This prompted European Union rescue packages for both
Greece and Ireland and the introduction of severe austerity
measures across Europe.
Against this mixed market backdrop the Group saw its assets under
management rise to £105.8 billion (31 December 2009: £97.8
billion) which included £4.2 billion from the acquisition of Thames
River Capital in September 2010. We saw positive returns across all
major asset classes – equities, fixed income and property – while
foreign currency movements had a negative impact on AUM across
the year given our exposure to Eurozone based clients. 
Investment Performance
Relative investment performance was positive across most teams
during the year, with three year track records continuing to be
competitive. On an asset-weight basis 72 per cent. of fixed income,
63 per cent. of equities and 100 per cent. of property assets are
above agreed benchmarks over three years.
Business Flows
Having rebuilt three year investment track records and significantly
improved our position with investment consultants, 2010 saw a
turnaround in business flows with a return to net positive inflows,
excluding insurance assets. This was underpinned by a 77.5 per
cent. increase in gross new business, excluding insurance, to £6.1
billion (2009: £3.5 billion) and much reduced outflows, which were
at their lowest level in several years. We ended the year with an
additional pipeline of institutional mandates totalling £1.5 billion
awaiting funding. Key institutional products included liability driven
investment mandates, equity-linked bond funds, emerging market
debt and global convertibles. We also raised significant
commitments for German property mandates, ranking as the top
capital raiser for property Spezialfonds (source: BVI). We expect to
see the majority of these funds invested during 2011.
The quality of new institutional business continued to improve
reflecting our focus on specialist products, with the average fee
margin on institutional inflows some 39 per cent. higher than 
those on outflows. 
In the UK retail market we continued to focus primarily on our multi-
manager and lifestyle funds while building the profile of our property,
UK and European equity products.
Encouragingly, we saw £621 million of gross sales into Thames
River products during the four months post-completion which
included the first institutional mandate win for their Water &
Agriculture team.
Business Flows ex. Insurance
2010 2009 2008 2007 2006
£m £m £m £m £m
Inflows 6,140 3,459 3,925 6,454 6,496
Outflows (5,868) (7,200) (10,165) (10,445) (15,109)
Net flows –
ex. Insurance 272 (3,741) (6,240) (3,991) (8,613)
Financial Results
Net revenues were £243.2 million (2009: £225.1 million). This
included performance related management fees of £12.9 million
(2009: £18.7 million). 
Operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible assets,
exceptional items and foreign exchange losses, were £175.0 million
(2009: £166.6 million). These include the additional cost base of
£12.6 million arising from the acquisition of Thames River, 
£6.0 million of which was in respect of distributions payable to
Thames River members. Continuing the downward trend of the last
three years core operating expenses in the legacy F&C business
were further reduced by £4.2 million compared to 2009.
The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring
cost items which are excluded from our underlying results. These
included corporate advisory costs associated with the acquisition of
Thames River and the aborted acquisition of C-Quadrat, costs
associated with the subsequent integration of Thames River, legal
expenses and certain share-based payment costs. Offset against
these, and also excluded from underlying results, are gains from
foreign exchange movements and exceptional gains from
restructuring our pension benefits. 
As a result of increased revenues and reduced costs, the Group
increased its underlying operating profit (excluding foreign exchange
movements) for 2010 to £69.2 million (2009: £59.9 million), resulting
in an increased underlying operating margin of 28.5% (2009:
26.6%).
Underlying earnings per share for the year were 5.9 pence 
(2009: 5.8 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes amortisation and exceptional
items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million (2009: profit
of £18.7 million). A substantial element of the year-on-year
movement is attributable to the exceptional gain of £27.9 million on
the 2009 debt exchange transaction.
04 Business Review F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Chief Executive’s Report
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 4 Statement of Financial Position
The Group closed the year with £178.8 million of shareholders’ cash
reserves and net debt of £95.9 million. A significant proportion of the
shareholders’ cash reserves are held in our regulated subsidiaries
against their capital requirements.
Gross debt of £275 million (2009: £265 million) comprises 
£125 million of subordinated loan notes and £150 million of senior
loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants. The
£150 million senior loan notes include a £20 million issue
undertaken in September 2010 to repay a loan facility provided 
to part-finance the acquisition of Thames River.
As part of our strategy we intend to reduce net debt over 
the medium term.
Business Developments
F&C manages significant assets for insurance-led clients under
contractual arrangements which carry certain exclusivity rights
extending out to between October 2013 and October 2015 at which
point they typically revert to notice periods of between 6 and 12
months. During the year we set out three medium-term strategic
priorities for the Group ahead of the maturity of these contracts:
• Grow new revenues and further diversify the Group beyond its
insurance client base
• Create a more flexible cost base that will adjust more readily to
any changes in our business mix
• Improve capital strength by targeting the reduction of debt on
our balance sheet
A key development in our revenue diversification strategy was the
completion of our acquisition of Thames River in September 2010.
Following the Thames River acquisition, on a run-rate basis some 
75 per cent. of revenues are now derived from non-insurance clients
and we believe the organic growth potential of the Group has 
been enhanced.
Thames River has provided the Group with complementary product
and distribution capabilities. In particular it has added expertise in
absolute return strategies, principally through UCITS III fund
structures, has enabled a step-change in the scale of our multi-
manager business and has added proven distribution in the wealth
management sector, an area where our presence had been limited.
UCITS absolute return funds and retail multi-manager products are
two areas of the funds industry experiencing strong growth.
Thames River has been successfully integrated into the Group and
is now positioned as “the Funds Business” of F&C with responsibility
for the distribution of all open-ended fund products from across the
Group into the retail and wholesale client channels. A trade paper
advertising campaign commenced in the fourth quarter, along with a
series of marketing roadshows in the UK and Europe.
A key project was the merger of the F&C and Thames River retail
multi-manager ranges, which completed in December, removing one
of the few areas of direct product overlap. The UK fund of funds
segment has been growing at twice the rate of the broader market
and our recently combined multi-manager business, with assets of
£1.5 billion, is the second largest in the UK IFA market. This leaves
us well positioned to help IFAs address some of the challenges
arising from the Financial Services Authority’s Treating Customers
Fairly initiative and the implementation of the recommendations of
the Retail Distribution Review by providing adviser firms with a
robust investment process which provides their clients with access
to best of breed funds from across the industry. We expect to see
IFAs increasingly advising clients to transfer existing portfolios of
individual funds into multi-manager products, as well as greater use
of multi-manager funds for new investments.
Progress has also been made introducing Thames River capabilities
to the institutional market, with initial interest focused on the Global
Bond, Water & Agriculture and Funds of Alternative Investment
Funds products. 
Thames River generated £1.8 million of performance fees in its first
four months as part of the Group. At 31 December 2010 some 65
per cent. of Thames River funds which incorporate performance fee
structures were at, or within 5 per cent. of, their high water marks.
In our 2009 Annual Report we confirmed that we had completed the
major infrastructure projects initiated in 2007, including the
consolidation of our operations onto a single platform. Following this
and the acquisition of Thames River we have undertaken significant
work to develop a new operational model that will more readily
adjust to future changes in F&C’s business mix as we focus on
diversifying the business and cater for evolving client needs. 
As part of the implementation of this model, we have reached
Heads of Terms with a leading specialist provider on an outsourcing
arrangement for certain back office and middle office functions. We
expect to reach a definitive agreement by the end of the second
quarter of 2011. The outsourcing project is expected to reduce our
operations staff headcount by around 70 per cent. as well as
reorganise certain other functions around the new model. This
restructuring programme, which does not affect the staffing of
investment, distribution or client servicing functions, will create an
operational cost base that varies with assets under management
and transaction levels and is expected, once fully implemented, to
generate annualised savings of at least £12 million, including 
£3 million from reduced premises costs. We anticipate the first of
these savings will be realised later this year, with the full savings
achieved in 2013.
F&C Asset Management Chief Executive’s Report  Business Review 05
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 5 06 Business Review Chief Executive’s Report F&C Asset Management
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
Outlook and Summary
In our view the macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging
and we therefore see the potential for continued volatility in global
markets. Growth remains anaemic in the UK and high public deficits
across the developed world are multi-year problems that have only
just begun to be tackled. Inflation is a growing concern across the
globe and rising commodity prices add to the risk of social and
political unrest in developing markets, such as we have seen
recently across North Africa and the Middle East. These
uncertainties are a timely reminder of the importance of being a 
well diversified business by sources of revenue and asset class and
with a product set that can take advantage of the opportunities
available at various points in the cycle as client needs and risk
appetites change. 
On 6 January 2011 the Board wrote to shareholders with notice of a
General Meeting requisitioned on behalf of funds managed by
Sherborne Investors GP , LLC. The purpose of the General Meeting
was to vote on Resolutions to remove two Directors, including the
then Chairman, and elect three new Directors. At the General
Meeting on 3 February all these Resolutions were supported 
by shareholders.
With the Board having been reconstructed in accordance with the
wishes of shareholders and the appointment of Ed Bramson as
Chairman, the Board and management team are focused on the
future success of the business.
Major building blocks for a recovery in our underlying profitability
have been put in place, with progress in diversifying our sources of
revenue, improved fund flows at higher average fee margins and the
planned migration to a new operational model which will lower our
expense base and generate future cost flexibility. Furthermore, to
maximise the delivery of shareholder value, the Board is conducting
a review of the Group’s strategy which we will report on in due
course. In the meantime, our operational focus for 2011 will be to
sustain competitive investment track records, gather momentum in
improving fund flow trends and accelerate the cross-selling of
products between F&C and Thames River. 
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
9 March 2011
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 6
