 6
Chief Executive’s Report
2008 was a year which saw unprecedented volatility and asset
class correlation in the markets as confidence in the banking
system evaporated and major financial institutions across the
globe required government-led bail-outs. Credit markets were
paralysed for much of the year, with spreads on investment grade
bonds widening significantly. Equity volatility reached record
levels as the process of de-leveraging gathered pace and
investors sought refuge in government bonds. Most markets
suffered from an extreme lack of liquidity.
All major equity indices ended the year sharply lower, with the
FTSE 100 Index posting a total return decline of 28.3 per cent., its
worst year since inception, and the US market experiencing the
second biggest decline in its history. Meanwhile, as the tightening
of credit impacted consumer spending and business finance, the
global economy slipped into recession during the fourth quarter.
In the UK this prompted the Bank of England to reduce interest
rates to their lowest level in three centuries and to vastly expand
its provision of liquidity.
The rapid deterioration in prospects for global growth prompted a
sharp reversal in commodity prices after they soared to new highs
in the first half of 2008. Having peaked at $142 a barrel in July,
crude oil ended the year at $36 while copper prices halved in less
than six months.
The financial crisis is profoundly reshaping the banking and
financial services industries. The traditional Wall Street investment
banking model has disappeared with Lehman Brothers filing for
bankruptcy, Bear Stearns and Merrill Lynch being absorbed by
other banks and both Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley
converting their status to that of bank holding companies.
Around the world, governments have been forced to either
nationalise or take significant stakes in banks to prevent a
complete meltdown of the financial system. In the United Kingdom,
Bradford & Bingley and Northern Rock have been nationalised
and the UK government has taken major stakes in Royal Bank of
Scotland and Lloyds Group. The UK government now has a
substantial equity stake in the banking sector. Similar government-
led actions have taken place in the US and across Europe.
2008 was also the worst year on record for the alternative
investment industry. The average hedge fund produced negative
returns with the CS Tremont Hedge Fund Index down 18.3 per
cent. (GBP). The alternatives industry has experienced significant
redemptions resulting in many hedge funds erecting ‘gates’ to
prevent further outflows. These problems have been compounded
by the revelations of an alleged major fraud by US-based
firm Madoff.
Financial Results
Against such a stark market backdrop, asset managers have had
their business models thoroughly stress tested. F&C has,
however, demonstrated that it is a robust business.
We have benefited from our strategy of diversification by asset
class, client type and geographic exposure. We ended the year
with assets under management of £98.6 billion, down less than
5 per cent. from the prior year. This resilience was underpinned by
the stability provided by our exposure to fixed income assets and
our management of Euro-denominated portfolios. These factors
helped mitigate the impact of the sharp decline in equities and of
Sterling against other major currencies.
Revenues also proved robust with net investment management
fees, being base management fees less fee and commission
expenses, of £220.9 million down 5.2 per cent. from 2007. Non-
investment management fees declined by £22.4 million as a result
of reduced performance fees and a fall in non-recurring sources
of other income. The reduction in revenues was partly offset by a
£12.9 million decline in the cost base, partially reflecting the
benefit of actions taken by management.
The group made an underlying profit after tax of £38.3 million
(2007: £50.2 million) with underlying earnings per share of
7.8 pence (2007: 10.4 pence).
However, the company incurred a number of exceptional, 
non-recurring items. These related to implementing cost reduction
measures, corporate advisory costs and a £12.3 million charge on
open forward currency contracts.
Additionally, as a result of severely reduced market levels, we
have taken an impairment charge of £48.3 million on the value of
intangible management contracts that were acquired as a result
of the merger of F&C Group and ISIS Asset Management in 2004
and the acquisition of RSAI Investments in 2002. This impairment
charge does not affect cash, covenants or gearing. 
As a result of these exceptional items and non-cash charges, the
group made a loss after tax and non-recurring items of
£50.5 million.
Distribution and Business Flows
Twelve-months ago we reported that having invested in products,
people and infrastructure during 2007, our intention was to focus
on distribution during 2008.
The group made progress in enhancing our distribution
capabilities during the year. We have established a distribution
presence in Asia through the opening of an office in Hong Kong,
signed new distribution agreements, added funds to new
platforms and have won our first mandate in Canada. However,
given the severity of market events during the year, new business
generated has not met initial targets.
The three-year growth plan launched in 2007 was predicated on
benign markets and stable ownership. Given the turbulent market
conditions and uncertainty resulting from Friends Provident
announcing that it wished to divest its 52 per cent. shareholding
in F&C, our focus shifted to managing the business through the
current turbulence rather than achieving targets developed in a
radically different environment.
Notwithstanding this, we believe the enhancements to our
infrastructure, product range and distribution capabilities that
were implemented as part of the three-year plan do leave the
business better positioned to grow once markets have stabilised.
We continued to focus on generating inflows in higher margin
areas, a key tenet of our strategy, with the average fee rate on new institutional business 30.0 per cent. higher than fees earned
on institutional outflows.
We generated £2.4 billion of institutional new business during the
year, some 51 per cent. of which came in the fourth quarter.
However, our ability to generate new institutional business was
constrained by the uncertainty over our ownership. Despite
having 28 ratings by investment consultants at the end of 2008, a
record level for our business, a number of these ratings have
been placed on hold.
Given the challenging headwinds, we made good progress in the
higher margin client categories. We had record inflows into our
SICAV funds with net sales rising 102 per cent. to £225 million.
Net sales of our UK Retail funds were broadly flat which is a
satisfactory outturn given that many of our peers experienced
substantial retail outflows. Our relative success in mutual fund
flows was based on a combination of solution-driven products
and funds targeted at consolidating existing assets. We also
made good progress during 2008 in adding our funds to new
product platforms which will better position us to win new
business in the future.
Investment Performance
Overall relative investment performance was solid. On an asset
weighted basis we outperformed on 62 per cent. of equities
managed and 46 per cent. of fixed income. Three year track
records remain competitive on the majority of investment desks.
Reflecting our broad, all-weather product set, relative
performance of individual fund products was mixed. Some of our
more actively managed high alpha strategies were severely
constrained by the illiquid trading conditions.
Two of our three single strategy hedge funds delivered positive
absolute returns, with F&C Zircon Fund posting a 19 per cent.
return during its first year and being short-listed in its category in
the EuroHedge Awards.
We earned £7.9 million in performance fees during the year. In line
with previous guidance, these were down from the record levels
we achieved in 2007.
Creation of F&C REIT Asset Management
An important development during the year was the merger of our
property business in the UK and Ireland with REIT Asset
Management. This transaction completed in September. The
combined business, F&C REIT, is an autonomous global property
asset manager with £7.9 billion under management. F&C REIT is
70 per cent. owned by the F&C group with the founders of REIT
Asset Management holding a 30 per cent. interest with the
potential to increase it to 40 per cent. over time on achieving
agreed financial performance targets. The achievement of these
targets would be value-enhancing for the F&C group.
The integration of the two property businesses has gone well.
F&C REIT has already made its presence felt in the market having
successfully bid for a portfolio of 221 property assets formerly
owned by the Dawnay Day group.
Although the outlook for the commercial property market remains
tough, the management team at F&C REIT has considerable
experience of investing in downturns and sees opportunities to
acquire high quality properties from forced sellers. During 2009
the group plans to bring new products to the market, including a
UK Opportunities Fund.
Outlook
The outlook for the asset management industry remains challenging.
Until the extent of bank losses is fully disclosed, the financial system
stabilises and the process of de-leveraging plays out, markets will
remain febrile and investor confidence will be weak.
Given this outlook, we have been proactive in adjusting our cost
base to the tougher operating environment and we anticipate
continuing to reduce costs through 2009. On 17 December 2008
we announced a £15 million cost reduction programme which will
impact the 2009 cost base.
While the performance of the majority of our investment desks has
met or exceeded relative benchmarks or peers, we are acutely
aware that in absolute terms the sharp declines in market levels
have resulted in significant value destruction for many of our
clients. Our focus will be to help our clients rebuild their capital.
Although the banking system is at the epicentre of the global
financial crisis, there has been collective failure across the
financial system with lessons for regulators, rating agencies and
institutional investors. In particular, asset managers need to
assess whether they could have done more to exert influence
over the banks in areas such as board effectiveness and
executive remuneration. F&C continues with an active programme
of engaging with companies and exercising shareholder rights
and we report separately on this activity.
We believe that clients will expect to see tangible evidence that
asset managers are effectively engaging with companies,
including the use of votes, to protect and enhance shareholder
value. F&C has a market leading franchise in corporate
governance and shareholder engagement and during the year we
won a number of new mandates for our reo® (responsible
engagement overlay) service. We also anticipate greater scrutiny
of the robustness of an asset manager’s own risk-management
culture, financial position and business model. We believe that
F&C is well positioned in all of these areas.
We note the announcement by Friends Provident that it intends to
distribute its shareholding in F&C to its own shareholders by mid-
2009. We welcome the lifting of the uncertainty over our
ownership and the opportunity to broaden our shareholder base.
We are working closely with Friends Provident towards an orderly
divestment and the extension of our investment management
agreements with Friends Provident under terms and conditions
that are in line with commercial best practice and take into
account the interests of stakeholders in both companies.
Following the proposed distribution of Friends Provident’s
shareholding, F&C will remain a separately listed public company
with its own independent Board and governance structure.
With uncertainties regarding our ownership resolved and the
strength of our diversified business model demonstrated through
some of the worst market conditions in history, during 2009 we
will renew our focus on asset gathering and continue to engage
with investment consultants.
While our focus remains on organic growth, we will continue to
take a pragmatic approach to non-organic opportunities, as we
did with our acquisition of REIT Asset Management, which fit with
our multi-specialist model and have minimal disruption for our
existing business.
Alain L. Grisay
Chief Executive
10 March 2009
7
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 8 9
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008
Business Review
