 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
06 Business Review Chief Executive’s report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Market Overview
2009 was a year in which the world's major economies
endured the worst recession since the 1930s.  Despite this,
investors in financial markets benefitted from a remarkable
rally in both equities and bonds.  Even accounting for
significant equity market declines in the first quarter, the
FTSE 100 Index returned a 27.3 per cent gain during 2009
and investment grade bonds produced their best returns in
a decade.
Notwithstanding the scale of the rally since March, the
average level of the FTSE 100 Index during 2009 was 4568
points compared to 5363 points during 2008, a reduction
of 14.8 per cent.  Consequently, 2009 was another tough
year for asset managers as lower average market levels fed
through to reduced management fee revenues.
Against this challenging market environment, F&C
continued to make progress in the implementation of its
strategy with strong investment performance and good
progress with investment consultants.
Financial Results
With a diversified asset base, F&C’s assets under
management are less exposed to equity markets than
some of our peers.  We were relatively defensively
positioned during the sharp equity market declines in 2008,
and thus were more limited in our participation in the equity
recovery during 2009.  We ended the year with assets
under management of £97.8 billion, broadly flat on the year
(31 December 2008: £98.6 billion). 
Over the year, the strengthening of Sterling against the
Euro had an adverse impact on our assets under
management, partially mitigating the recovery in market
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Chief
Executive’s
report
 
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
levels.  At 31 December some 55 per cent of our assets
under management were in Euro-denominated portfolios.
Net revenues, of £225 million, remained relatively stable
(2008: £230 million).  While net investment management
fees were some £18.6 million lower, performance-related
management fees increased to £18.7 million (2008: £7.9
million) on the back of strong investment performance.
Underlying operating costs were £5.7 million lower
reflecting the cost reduction measures implemented at the
start of the year, which were partially offset by the acquired
cost base of REIT Asset Management.
The Group made an underlying profit after tax, excluding
foreign exchange gains and losses, of £28.3 million (2008:
£37.3 million).  This resulted in underlying earnings per
share of 5.8 pence (2008: 7.6 pence).
The Group also recognised a number of exceptional and
non-recurring items.  These included the gain on debt
refinancing, corporate advisory costs, and the exceptional
employment costs of implementing our cost reduction
programme. 
On a statutory basis our profit after tax was £18.7 million
compared to a loss of £50.6 million in 2008. 
Statement of Financial Position
The Group closed the year with £186 million of shareholder
cash reserves and net debt of some £79 million. 
In the second half of the year we took advantage of
prevailing conditions in the subordinated debt markets and
executed an exchange offer to existing holders of our
subordinated loan notes.  This enabled bondholders to
exchange part of their subordinated notes for new
guaranteed notes, and the Group to raise £25 million of
additional finance.  As a result of this transaction we were
able to repay £25 million of vendor loan notes issued in
relation to the acquisition of REIT Asset Management in
2008, and to reduce gross and net debt by some £30
million.
Strategic and Operational Review
Our strategy is to develop the Group as a leading multi-
specialist asset manager, focused on delivering a
competitive range of investment products, supported by
excellent client service, for a broad range of insurance,
institutional, wholesale and retail investors.  We are on a
long-term journey to diversify beyond our traditional core
business mix by expanding our presence across multiple
client segments in specialist business areas which offer
scaleable, high growth potential. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
07 Business Review Chief Executive’s report Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
environmental, social and governance services,
emerging market debt, emerging equities, equity-linked
bond funds, and commercial property.
We generated £2.5 billion of new institutional business
during the year and had a further pipeline of mandates
that were won but awaiting funding of £1.4 billion at the
year end.  Institutional outflows were at their lowest
level since the merger of F&C and ISIS in 2004,
reducing significantly from prior year levels to £4.8
billion (2008: £7.6 billion). 
Third-party mutual fund sales (OEICs and SICAVs) of
£710 million were down 31 per cent from the peak
levels achieved in 2008.  In particular, due to our fund
range we did not participate in the strong industry
preference in 2009 for investment grade corporate
bond products.
•    Infrastructure – The major infrastructure projects
initiated as part of our three-year plan have now been
completed.  These include the consolidation of our
operations on to a single platform and the upgrading of
our Decision, Risk and Dealing systems to support our
investment teams.
F&C REIT Asset Management
F&C REIT, our property asset manager, was accretive to
the Group’s underlying earnings per share in its first full-
year as part of the Group.  
Property investment performance was strong during 2009.
The aggregate of all F&C REIT property portfolios
monitored by Investment Property Databank (IPD) ranked
F&C REIT’s UK performance in the 8th percentile.  All three
closed ended listed UK commercial property vehicles
managed by the Group outperformed the IPD Quarterly
Index throughout the year.
Outlook
Despite the sharp recovery in asset prices during 2009, the
economic outlook for 2010 remains uncertain.  Spiralling
public debt is forcing governments to take tough action in
the form of spending cuts and tax rises.  These measures,
combined with the winding down of stimulus packages,
also have the potential to choke off economic recovery.
We therefore remain cautious in our short term market
outlook and will continue to rigorously manage our cost
base. 
With both private investors and pensions schemes needing
to rebuild capital, the business is well positioned for an
upturn in fund flows.
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
31 March 2010
The Group’s product strategy has three distinct pillars:
•    Advisory and client solutions – servicing strategic
clients with solutions including liability matching,
fiduciary management, governance overlays, asset
allocation and risk-profiled products
•    Alpha investing – active portfolio management across
a range of traditional and alternative asset classes
•    Responsible investing – developing our strong
market presence in the management of ethical and
responsible investment products
We will seek to add scale and enhance our product set and
distribution capabilities both organically and through
acquisitions.  We believe that the acquisition of REIT Asset
Management has demonstrated our ability to acquire and
preserve the value of entrepreneurial businesses. We will
therefore look to build on this model with further
acquisitions should we find them to be attractive, value
creating opportunities that can be structured to minimise
disruption to the business.
Business Developments
Three years ago we initiated a fundamental restructuring of
the business.  This aimed to improve investment
performance, build our distribution capability, expand our
presence in specialist investment areas and enhance our
infrastructure to support future growth.  We are pleased to
report that the three-year objectives that we had set
ourselves for core investment performance and
infrastructure development have been, in the main,
achieved.  New business wins did not reach our targets
largely because of elements outside of our control; two
years of unexpected ownership uncertainty and the impact
of the market turmoil.
The following was achieved by the end of 2009:
•    Investment Performance – Overall investment
performance was strong across all asset classes during
2009.  On an asset weighted basis we outperformed
agreed benchmarks or targets on 71 per cent of
actively managed equity portfolios and 94 per cent of
actively managed fixed income portfolios.  As reported
below, 2009 was also an excellent year for property
investment performance, where all our funds
outperformed their benchmark.  Strong investment
performance resulted in a 137 per cent increase in
performance fees compared to the previous year.
Mutual funds and other pooled funds represent a
minority of our assets under management with the
majority of portfolios in insurance funds and segregated
accounts.  Our overall pooled fund performance, while
competitive in a number of specialist areas, does not
yet reflect the strong outperformance delivered for our
institutional and insurance clients. Improvements in
pooled fund performance are therefore a priority for the
business in 2010.
•    Distribution – Since the end of the uncertainty over
our ownership we have made good progress with
institutional investment consultants, the prerequisite to
winning new mandates.  At the year end we had a
record 43 consultant ratings, spanning a number of
products including liability driven investments, F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
8 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
08 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Client focus
Our values: the foundations of excellence F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
9 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
09 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C is a service business. Each employee needs to excel in
everything we do for our clients, adding value and building
relationships.
