 Summary and outlook
2013 was a positive year for the Group, as we delivered progress in
line with the strategic objectives set. Our investment performance was
strong, we launched a number of new products in areas of growing
client demand, our cost base reduced in line with the targets we
previously set out and, importantly, net fund flows in our Consumer
and Institutional business improved substantially.
However, the Group faces significant headwinds in the short term as
our Strategic Partner assets decline and the growth from our
Consumer and Institutional business, which is starting to emerge,
takes time to develop. In 2013 some £20 billion of Strategic Partner
assets were withdrawn as their contracts matured. The combined
annualised revenue loss associated with these assets and related fee
changes, including F&C REIT, is some £35.5 million, of which
£11.3 million is reflected in the 2013 results given the timing of
withdrawals during the year. Whilst Consumer and Institutional net
inflows were some £1.3 billion during 2013, as described later in this
report, the annualised net revenue increase from these inflows will be
modest. In contrast to 2012 and 2013, there will be no further
material cost reductions to compensate for the full-year revenue
impact in 2014 of the Strategic Partner withdrawals in 2013. The
Group remains on track to deliver the remaining cost savings
associated with the original cost-reduction programme. However, the
increased importance of and focus on asset growth and new revenue
generation from Consumer and Institutional will require investment in
our sales and distribution functions, as well as ensuring that we retain
the investment talent required to offer our clients the investment
performance and solutions they require.
Irrespective of these financial challenges, F&C will continue to strive to
deliver what our clients expect in terms of investment performance
and client service. It is this that will build F&C’s franchise and enable
the Company to achieve its ambitious plans for growth.
Business flows and revenues
The Group incurred overall net outflows of £19.0 billion during the
year, comprising some £20.3 billion of Strategic Partner outflows and
£1.3 billion of Consumer and Institutional net inflows. The Strategic
Partner outflows predominantly reflect the maturity and changing
nature of the contractual relationships with these parties, while the
Consumer and Institutional inflows demonstrate the growing
momentum in this area of our business. The level of Strategic Partner
outflows during 2013 was anticipated, but the annualised loss of
revenue associated with them remains significant and is estimated at
approximately £24.3 million with some £8.0 million of this impact
recognised in 2013. In addition, contractual terms were renegotiated
with a major institutional client of F&C REIT, and as a result of this the
revenues from that client will reduce on an annualised basis by
£8.5 million, of which some £2.8 million is reflected in the 2013 results.
Third-Party Institutional gross sales were strong during 2013, with
£5.1 billion of new mandates funded, an increase of some £2.2 billion
over the prior year. Although outflows from the institutional business
were £0.3 billion higher than 2012, our net flow position improved
considerably, with net inflows of £1.2 billion (2012: net outflows of
£0.7 billion). This encouraging result is indicative of our much
improved position with investment consultants, where our credentials
in areas such as fixed income and Liability Driven Investments (LDI)
have gained strong recognition. Our Consumer business also had a
good year, generating net inflows of £519 million (2012: net outflows
of £40 million).
While the combined Consumer and Institutional business achieved
net inflows of some £1.3 billion during 2013, the revenue margin on
the gross inflows was lower than that on outflows, and accordingly,
the annualised net revenue increase associated with these inflows will
be modest. This is driven by two factors. Firstly, the Consumer and
Institutional business incorporates a range of clients with very different
fee characteristics and secondly, as we start to win larger institutional
mandates, with strong absolute revenues, these are often at lower fee
margins than the smaller mandates we were previously gaining.
Results
Net revenue for the year was £241.2 million (2012: £243.5 million).
Within this overall figure, revenue from Strategic Partners fell £10.8
million, whilst revenues from the Consumer and Institutional business
increased by £8.5 million, as a result of the combination of fund flows
described above, together with market and exchange movements in
our asset base and changes in revenue yields.
Underlying operating costs, excluding amortisation of intangible
assets and exceptional items, were £152.4 million (2012: £172.2
million). Core operating expenses declined by £19.3 million during the
year, whilst distributions to the individual members of the Thames
River LLPs declined by £0.5 million. The reduction in core operating
expenses reflects the ongoing recognition of savings resulting from
the implementation of actions from our strategic review process in
2011 and 2012, and we remain on track to generate the original
cumulative savings target of £48.8 million.
The Group also incurred a number of exceptional and non-recurring
costs which totalled £11.2 million (2012: a net cost of £10.4 million)
and are excluded from underlying results. These represent the final
costs associated with our back and middle office outsourcing, the
remaining one-off expenses of implementing our cost-reduction
programme, the costs associated with the Thames River retention
plan and commutation agreements, and the movement in the F&C
REIT put option liability.
Group underlying operating profit increased from £71.1 million in 2012
to £89.0 million in 2013. After net interest expense, tax and a
deduction for the share of the Group’s profit attributable to the non-
controlling interests in F&C REIT, this resulted in underlying earnings
per share for the year of 8.8 pence (2012: 7.0 pence) attributable to
shareholders.
On a statutory basis, which includes non-recurring and other
exceptional items, the Group reported a profit after tax of £10.2 million
for 2013 (2012: £2.6 million).
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 03
Chief Executive’s Report The Group closed the year with £182.0 million of shareholders’ cash
reserves and net debt reduced to £76.0 million (2012: £97.3 million).
A significant proportion of the shareholders’ cash reserves are held in
our regulated subsidiaries against their capital requirements.
Gross debt of some £258 million (2012: £258 million) comprises
£116 million of subordinated loan notes and £142 million of senior
loan notes, neither of which include any financial covenants.
Business review
During 2013 the Group focused on its financial objectives of delivering
the planned cost savings associated with the strategic review and
improving cashflow generation, while working to retain Strategic
Partner assets, executing Consumer and Institutional short-term sales
and growth plans, and developing product and marketing plans for
the medium term.
As demonstrated by the financial information above, the Group has
continued to make good progress with the cost-reduction
programme initiated in 2011 and remains on schedule to achieve its
previously announced target. F&C did not repurchase any further debt
in 2013 as a combination of rising prices and illiquidity made this less
attractive. The reduction in net debt is attributable to improved
cashflow generation.
F&C’s Consumer and Institutional fund flows show that we are making
progress in winning new clients, whilst outflows from Strategic
Partners in 2013 reflect what we announced during the year and are
consistent with the maturing of the specific contracts. We continue to
work closely with all our Strategic Partners to explore opportunities to
extend our relationships beyond their initial contractual periods.
The long-term contract with Achmea expired during the year and they
withdrew some £10 billion of “own risk” assets at maturity. We have
renegotiated commercial terms for circa £6 billion of the remaining
own risk assets, which are now under contract until November 2015.
In addition we manage a further £7.4 billion of Achmea assets.
During 2013, we also amended our contractual arrangements with
Friends First, our Irish strategic partner, allowing them to withdraw
certain assets in return for revised contractual arrangements on
remaining assets. Whilst this resulted in a loss of circa £1.1 billion in
assets and £1.0 million in annualised revenues, we have been able to
re-align F&C’s cost base in Ireland and have extended some of the
remaining contracts to Q4 2018. As at 31 December 2013, we
managed £1.5 billion on behalf of Friends First.
The long-term contract with the Millennium BCP group expired in
2011 and, whilst we continue to manage a range of asset classes on
their behalf, during 2013 they terminated mandates for approximately
£260 million of property assets with £1.5 million of associated
annualised revenues, placing them under the management of an
in-house subsidiary. As at 31 December 2013, we managed
£11.2 billion on behalf of Millennium BCP .
During 2013, Friends Life withdrew £6.0 billion of fixed income assets
and transferred them to their in-house manager. At 31 December
2013, we managed £16.2 billion on behalf of Friends Life. On
18 March 2014, Friends Life announced that they have selected a
new investment manager in respect of £12.2 billion assets and that
they will transfer a further £2.3 billion of fixed income assets to their
in-house asset manager. We anticipate that these assets will be
withdrawn by the end of 2014.
Turning to our Investment Trusts, we are pleased to report that 8 out
of 12 trusts issued shares during 2013, with a total value in excess of
£100 million. It is also encouraging to note that we have about
172,000 customers in the F&C Investment Trust savings plans. These
plans now have close to £2 billion under management, up from
£1.5 billion a year ago, and we are seeing consistent monthly inflows
to Investment Trusts through our savings plans.
The UK Retail market continues to experience major change. Whilst it
appears that the full effects of RDR (Retail Distribution Review) will not
be seen and understood in the market for some time, we continue to
believe that our Multi-Manager and Lifestyle product ranges leave us
well placed to benefit from emerging trends in the UK retail market
place, and we will focus on continuing to improve our position in this
market. New business in 2013 supported this positioning with
£0.4 billion of gross inflows into these funds and £2.1 billion of gross
flows across all Retail funds.
Our Third-Party Institutional business continues to make progress,
with gross inflows increasing from £2.9 billion in 2012 to £5.1 billion in
2013. Importantly, a significant proportion of our inflows continue to
be generated from “long duration” products, such as LDI and
Property, which should have a long period under management. As we
look forward, we aim to maintain and grow the gross inflows from this
business, widen the product range generating gross inflows and
continue to reduce the level of gross outflows. To achieve these goals
we plan to increase our distribution resources focused on this market
during 2014.
Our distribution ambitions will only be met if we have strong
investment performance, and during 2013 our fixed income, equities
and property capabilities all performed well. Relative returns were
particularly good in fixed income; this is encouraging as it is a core
asset class for insurance portfolios and, increasingly, for defined
benefit pension schemes. On a three-year annualised asset-weighted
basis, 90 per cent of our fixed income portfolios outperformed their
respective benchmarks. On the same basis, 70 per cent of our equity
portfolios outperformed, with our European equity performance being
particularly strong. Indeed the European Equity SICAV Fund ranked in
the 1st percentile of its peer group of over 1,300 funds for the three-
year period to 31 December 2013. 77 per cent of our property assets
are above benchmarks over the three-year period. The Company
received a number of prestigious awards for investment performance
and services to clients during the year.
04 | CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT | In 2013 we have continued to re-organise our investment capabilities,
investing where necessary, in order to provide the investment
solutions that are being demanded of us by our clients. As the
objectives of our clients change, so F&C must evolve to meet those
requirements. F&C has been at the forefront of innovation in the
industry for many years and it is our aspiration to ensure that this
remains the case.
Recommended acquisition of the Group by
BMO Global Asset Management
On 28 January 2014 we announced that agreement had been
reached on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition by which
the entire ordinary share capital of F&C will be acquired by BMO
Global Asset Management (Europe) Limited. The Board believes that
the proposed acquisition will give us the opportunity to accelerate our
growth plans for the business, with the support of a financially strong
and ambitious parent. On 25 March 2014 shareholders approved the
resolutions necessary to support the acquisition. Completion of the
acquisition, however, remains subject to a number of regulatory and
other conditions.
Richard Wilson
Chief Executive Officer
9 April 2014
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 | 05
