 F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
02 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Welcome
from the
Chairman
“. . . We are looking forward to 
building on our new
independent status . . .” 
on 7 May 2010 to shareholders on the register at 26 March
2010.  This brings full-year dividends to 6.0 pence per
share.
 
Ownership
After a prolonged period of corporate uncertainty, F&C was
demerged from the Friends Provident group on 3 July
2009.  This transaction, which involved Friends Provident
distributing its controlling 52 per cent. stake in F&C to its
own shareholders, has resulted in an enormous broadening
of our shareholder register. 
Board Developments
There were a number of changes to the Board during the
year, both ahead of the Group’s demerger from Friends
Provident and upon its completion.
At the Annual General Meeting in May, Robert Jenkins
retired as Chairman of the Company and stepped down
from the Board.  I would like to pay tribute to Bob’s many
years of service to F&C, as Chief Executive of F&C Group
prior to its merger with ISIS Asset Management in 2004
and subsequently as the first Chairman of F&C Asset
Management plc.  At the same meeting Dick de Beus also
retired as an independent Non-Executive Director.  Dick’s
tenure on the Board pre-dated the 2004 merger and his
experience and insights were greatly valued.  On behalf of
the Board, I wish Bob and Dick well and extend thanks to
them both.
In June we welcomed two new Independent Non-
Executive Directors. Kieran Poynter joined the Board and
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman
2009 was another turbulent year for the asset management
industry and, for the Group, one of considerable change. It
began with a further severe downturn in global equity and
bond markets, exacerbating the difficulties of 2008.
However, from March onwards both equities and bonds
staged a strong rally through to the end of the year.
Despite this welcome recovery, average equity market
levels in 2009 were still lower than the previous year.  This
resulted in a tough operating environment for asset
managers. 
Results and Dividend
The Group’s underlying profit after tax (excluding foreign
exchange gains and losses) was £28.3 million compared to
£37.3 million in 2008.  This represented underlying
earnings per share of 5.8 pence for 2009 compared to 7.6
pence in the previous year. Including the impact of foreign
exchange gains and losses, underlying earnings per share
were 4.6p for 2009 and 7.8p for 2008.
On a statutory reported basis, which includes exceptional
and non-cash items, we made a profit after tax of £18.7
million, compared to a loss after tax of £50.6 million in
2008.  This represents a basic earnings per share of 3.2
pence compared to a loss of 10.7 pence in the previous
year.
After considering the results for the year, the challenging
market conditions and the exceptional corporate
uncertainty which impacted them, as well as the improving
outlook for the business, the Board is recommending an
unchanged final dividend of 4.0 pence per share, payable  F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
03 Business Review Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Conclusion
We are looking forward to building on our new independent
status and, while we recognise that there are, as ever,
many internal and external challenges, we are optimistic
that F&C will meet those challenges in the pursuit of
enhancing shareholder value. 
Nick MacAndrew
Chairman
31 March 2010
the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, having
recently retired as Chairman and Senior Partner of
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP .  The Board was also joined
in June by Roger Yates, former Chief Executive of
Henderson Group.  Regrettably, Roger stepped down in
December 2009 following his appointment as Chief
Executive of another asset management organisation.  We
are currently seeking a replacement. 
Following the demerger of F&C from the Friends Provident
group, both Sir Adrian Montague, former Chairman of
Friends Provident, and Trevor Matthews, Chief Executive
Officer of Friends Provident, stepped down as Non-
Executive Directors.  I would like to thank both Sir Adrian
and Trevor for their service. Friends Provident continues to
be an important client of the Group. F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
4 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
04 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
Accountable performance
Our values: the foundations of excellence F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
5 Business Overview Welcome from the Chairman Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
F&C Asset Management Annual Report and Financial Statements 2009
05 Business Review Our values: the foundations of excellence Business Review
Governance
Financial Statements
Shareholder Information
We expect individuals to take responsibility and deliver solutions.
Every employee knows the role they play, and the measures that will
be used to judge their performance.
