 4
Chairman’s Statement
Results
For the year 2007, the Company recorded a profit after tax of
£18.7 million. This compares to a reported loss in 2006 of
£22.5 million. Underlying earnings per share were 10.4 pence
versus the 12.8 pence reported in 2006. The swing to reported
profit reflects the absence of prior year distortions such as
impairment charges. The reduction in underlying earnings reflects
early stage investment in accordance with our three-year plan. 
Strategy and Outlook
Last year we announced a three-year plan designed to better
position your Company for growth. The strategy required an
upfront increase in investment spending. We said that we would
spend more in the short term to make more in the long term.
2007 was year one of the three year plan. The resultant
underlying earnings are consistent with the indication given at the
time. Non-earnings-related targets were also established for
which Key Performance Indicators were agreed and tracked. The
accompanying CEO Report and Business Review give details on
progress made to date. 
During the year, the Board revisited and reaffirmed its
commitment to the plan and to the strategy it represents. We
continue to believe that the realisation of the plan is the best
strategy by which to maximise shareholder value.  Meanwhile,
Friends Provident, our 52% shareholder has undertaken its own
strategic review. Among the conclusions announced by the Board
of FP was that wealth management would no longer be core to
their strategy. We are therefore working with Friends Provident to
seek a solution which will work to the benefit of all parties and
shareholders. Needless to say, this development offers both
challenge and opportunity.
Dividend and Dividend Policy
The Board are recommending a final dividend of 4.0 pence,
payable on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at
11 April 2008.
Our policy is to pursue progressive dividend growth from the
rebased dividend for 2007 and to achieve at least 1.5 times
earnings cover.
Board Developments
There were a number of Board changes since my last statement.
These have of course been announced but are summarised
below. Biographical details are given on pages 24 and 25.
Philip Moore, Chief Executive of Friends Provident stepped down
from the Board of F&C in November 2007 upon leaving the Board
of Friends Provident. We thank Philip for his contribution during
his tenure and wish him well.
Sir Adrian Montague, Executive Chairman of Friends Provident
replaced Philip Moore on the Board of F&C. He joins as a
non-Executive, non-Independent Director. 
Nicholas MacAndrew joined the Board last May as an
Independent non-Executive Director. He is a chartered accountant
with experience in both finance and asset management. Nick is a
member of the Audit & Compliance Committee. 
Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board in July as an Independent
non-Executive Director. Gerhard’s long career in finance includes
experience in the asset management, banking and corporate
finance sectors. He brings a particular knowledge of the German
marketplace.
John Heywood reached the normal retirement age of 70 in 2007
and intends to retire from the Board at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting in May.  During his years on the Board, John
could always be counted on to ask the challenging question in a
manner both incisive and polite. He is an example to us all. He will
be missed. 
John chaired the Company’s Remuneration Committee. To
ensure a smooth transition ahead of his retirement and in advance
of the most recent bonus round, the Chair was assumed during
the 3rd quarter by Brian Larcombe. Brian is a long standing
member of the Remuneration Committee.  Summary
We remain committed to the objectives of the three-year plan.
2007 was the first year of this effort and overall progress is
encouraging. As set out further in the Chief Executive’s Report,
the market and corporate situation creates uncertainty over the
timetable for delivery but not to our commitment to the strategic
direction. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank our employees for
their tremendous efforts and impressive achievements. 
Robert Jenkins
Chairman
6 March 2008
5
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
