 F&C Asset Management Business Review 03
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
This is my first statement as Chairman having been appointed to 
the role following my election as a Director at the General Meeting
on 3 February 2011. 
At the same General Meeting Ian Brindle and Derham O’Neill were
also elected to the Board while Nick MacAndrew, the previous
Chairman, and Brian Larcombe ceased to be Directors. Separately,
Gerhard Roggemann has indicated his intention to retire as a
Director at the Annual General Meeting in May.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to express our thanks to
Messrs. MacAndrew, Larcombe and Roggemann for their service 
to F&C over a number of years.
In the brief period since becoming Chairman of F&C, I have met a
significant number of staff from across the Group, including portfolio
managers at Thames River and F&C REIT. I have been impressed
with the calibre of people I have met and, in particular, the strong
sense of commitment to clients. This reinforces my confidence in
F&C’s prospects because asset management is without doubt a
people business and the Group possesses a strong reservoir of
talented professionals who want F&C to be successful.
Important progress has been achieved in a number of areas in 
laying solid foundations for a turnaround in F&C’s fortunes. In
particular, three year investment performance track records are
competitive and 2010 saw encouraging trends in funds flows.
Further detail on developments during 2010 is provided in the 
Chief Executive’s report.
Our focus now is to build on the things that work well at F&C and to
improve the Group’s financial performance, which will create value
for shareholders. Working with the Executive Management team, the
Board has therefore embarked on a review of strategy. We will
endeavour to minimise the time required for this process consistent
with producing the right long-term plan for F&C. In the meantime, it
will be business as usual for our investment professionals and client
servicing teams.
Results and Dividend
The Group’s underlying profit after tax (excluding foreign exchange
gains and losses) was £29.4 million compared to £28.3 million in
2009. This represents underlying earnings per share of 5.9 pence 
for 2010 and 5.8 pence for 2009. 
On a statutory reporting basis, which includes exceptional and 
non-cash items, the Group made a loss after tax of £13.4 million,
compared to a profit after tax of £18.7 million in 2009. This
represents a basic loss per share of 3.3 pence compared to
earnings per share of 3.2 pence in the previous year.
After considering the results for the year and consistent with the
decision to rebase the interim dividend, the Board is recommending
a final dividend of 2.0 pence per share, payable on 27 May 2011 to
shareholders on the register at 1 April 2011. This brings full-year
dividends to 3.0 pence per share.
The Board’s dividend policy is to achieve dividend cover of at least
150 per cent. of underlying earnings per share.
Conclusion 
It is a privilege to have been appointed as Chairman of F&C. 
The Group has a strong brand, dedicated professionals and many
other strengths. However, these have not been reflected in its share
price and financial performance in recent years. By accelerating
momentum in things that are working well and creating greater 
long-term focus on those areas that will generate the most value,
the prospects for F&C are excellent. 
I look forward to working with the Board, management team and
staff to develop the strategy and operational plan for the business
so that F&C reaches its full potential.
Edward Bramson
Chairman
9 March 2011
Welcome from the Chairman
15841 F&C Annual Report_FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06/04/2011 15:36 Page 3
