 Chief Executive’s Report
04 | BUSINESS REVIEW |
Market Overview
The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis
continued to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during 2011 as
solvency fears spread beyond Greece,
Ireland and Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy. Alongside this
the year also saw a number of significant
geopolitical developments and natural
disasters which contributed to extreme
volatility in global markets and poor investor
sentiment. These included the earthquake,
tsunami and nuclear reactor crisis in Japan,
violent upheaval in the Middle East and
North Africa and growing concerns over
Iran’s nuclear programme.
While across the year the equity market
ended only modestly down, with the FTSE
100 Index posting a total return of -2.2 per
cent., volatility as measured by the VIX
Index hit levels last seen at the height of the
credit crisis in 2008 when the global
financial system was on the brink of
collapse. At its lowest point the FTSE 100
Index had declined by -13.8 per cent. from
the start of the year and the S&P 500 Index
of leading US companies traded in a 24 per
cent. range with an average daily move of
around 1 per cent.
Volatile markets, combined with poor
liquidity, adversely affect the asset
management industry by impacting both new
business generation, particularly from retail
investors, and the ability of fund managers to
position client portfolios in order to deliver
out-performance. During 2011 only 17 per
cent. of funds in the IMA UK All Companies
sector managed to outperform the FTSE All
Share Index on a total return basis
(source: Lipper).
Underlying asset performance was a £2.9
billion positive contributor to assets under
management (AUM) over the year. However,
the Group saw its AUM decline 5.4 per cent.
to £100.1 billion (31 December 2010: £105.8
billion) principally as a result of net outflows
and adverse foreign exchange movements
associated with strategic partner assets.
Some 52 per cent. of the assets we manage
are in Euro-denominated portfolios, with
strategic partners making up 67 per cent. of
this exposure.
Business Flows
While the business saw overall net outflows
of £7.2 billion during the year, this was
primarily attributable to strategic partner
outflows. The outflows reflected the
underlying maturity profile of some of our
strategic partners’ insurance books, the
market conditions in Portugal and Ireland
and specific developments including the
partial nationalisation of the BCP Pension
Scheme in Portugal and the sale of Imperio
France by Achmea. We estimate annualised
revenues lost from these net outflows in
2011 to be approximately £11.9 million.
Net flows from third-party clients were flat
reflecting the difficult market environment,
particularly for retail and wholesale business.
Institutional gross sales were strong, with
£4.6 billion new mandates funded and an
additional £1.2 billion won but unfunded at
year end. Institutional flows were indicative
of our much improved position with
investment consultants where our
credentials in areas such as fixed income
and Liability Driven Investments (LDI) have
gained strong recognition.
Financial Results
While net revenues increased to £267.0
million (2010: £243.2 million), this reflected
the first full-year of Thames River’s inclusion
in the Group which also had a corresponding
impact on the expense base. Net revenues
included performance-related management
fees of £11.8 million (2010: £12.9 million).
The reduction in performance fees over the
previous year partially reflected weaker
investment performance in the second half of
the year at Thames River, where the majority
of products have performance fee potential,
and also the reduced performance fee
potential from certain F&C mandates.
Underlying operating costs, excluding
amortisation of intangible assets and
exceptional items, were £202.1 million
(2010: £177.0 million). These included a
full-year impact from the Thames River
acquisition, including £18.3 million in respect
of distributions payable to Thames River
members. Core operating expenses in the
legacy F&C business were slightly lower year-
on-year, with cost reductions more than
offsetting inflationary increases.
The Group also incurred a number of
exceptional and non-recurring costs which
are excluded from our underlying results.
These included costs associated with the
F&C Partners litigation, costs of
implementing our back and middle office
outsourcing and one-off expenses related to
our cost reduction programme. Offset
against these, and also excluded from
underlying results, are exceptional gains
arising from the reassessment of conditional
consideration payable for Thames River, and
in respect of the reduction in F&C REIT put
option liabilities. The Group anticipates that,
based on current and forecast financial
performance, no conditional consideration
will be payable for the Thames River Group.
The Group achieved an underlying operating
profit for 2011 of £65.2 million (2010: £67.2
million), resulting in an underlying operating
margin of 24.4 per cent. (2010: 27.6 per
cent.). In addition, the Group recognised
investment gains, which are included in
investment income, of £3.7 million during
the year.
Underlying earnings per share for the year
were 5.5 pence (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory basis, which includes
amortisation and exceptional items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million
(2010: a loss of £13.4 million).
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 4 Statement of Financial
Position
The Group closed the year with £196.9
million of shareholders’ cash reserves
and net debt reduced to £77.8 million
(2010: £95.9 million). A significant proportion
of the shareholders’ cash reserves are held
in our regulated subsidiaries against their
capital requirements.
Gross debt of some £275 million (2010:
£275 million) comprises £125 million of
subordinated loan notes and £150 million of
senior loan notes, neither of which include
any financial covenants.
Business Review
While the Board conducted its review of
strategy, the operational focus of the
business during 2011 remained the delivery
of good investment performance and client
servicing during a period of market
turbulence, and the project to outsource our
back and middle office functions.
On an asset-weighted basis relative
investment performance during the year was
encouraging, particularly in fixed income,
which is the core asset class for both defined
benefit pension schemes and insurance
portfolios. Importantly, three-year track
records continue to be competitive: on an
asset-weighted basis some 87 per cent. of
fixed income, 64 per cent. of equities and 98
per cent. of property assets are above
benchmarks over three years.
Our position with investment consultants
continues to improve and we have a highly
active programme of consultant
engagement. We now have 70 individual
product buy ratings compared to 43 at the
end of 2010. This significant increase in
consultant ratings primarily reflects new
ratings for a number of investment solutions
products launched over the last two years,
including our equity-linked bond fund range
and a suite of Dynamic LDI funds that we
launched in December 2011. Our credentials
in providing solutions to help insurers to
address their solvency requirements and
pension schemes to immunise liabilities,
gained important recognition with our
appointment to the UK’s Pension Protection
Fund’s panel of LDI providers. F&C also
won the LDI Provider of the Year award
at the prestigious 2011 European
Pensions Awards.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, a further
notable achievement during the year was
our appointment by the National
Employment Savings Trust (NEST) to
manage their ethical fund option. NEST is a
new workplace defined contribution pension
scheme, into which UK employees who do
not currently have access to an occupational
pension scheme will gradually be auto-
enrolled by 2017. This mandate provides
long-term potential for business flows and
further recognition of F&C’s scale and
leadership in sustainable investing. We see
further opportunities for developing our
presence in socially responsible investment
arising from recent decisions by some other
asset managers to scale back their
resources and activities in this area.
The tough market environment for the
retail/wholesale mutual fund business
resulted in 2011 being a relatively subdued
year for new product innovation across the
industry. We closed a small number of funds
and share classes which were sub-scale and
where we saw little demand. In the UK, we
continued to focus heavily on multi-manager
products, including our Lifestyle risk-rated
funds, where we are seeing support from
Independent Financial Advisers (IFAs)
seeking an outsourced core investment
proposition for their clients. We have also
been planning for the implementation of the
recommendations of the Retail Distribution
Review, which will replace the traditional
commission-based IFA model with the
explicit charging of fees for advice. The new
regime will be fully implemented by the end
of 2012 and therefore we are in the process
of finalising our new fund pricing strategy.
F&C manages significant assets for a number
of strategic partners: Achmea (The
Netherlands), Millennium BCP (Portugal),
Friends First (Ireland) and Friends Life (UK).
These assets principally comprise insurance
funds but also include sub-advised mutual
funds and certain pension scheme assets.
These are long standing relationships which
have generally provided us with exclusivity to
manage the assets of these partners for a
minimum period of time. An exception to this
is the Millennium BCP relationship in
Portugal, which is principally represented by
a BCP-Ageas insurance joint venture, where
that exclusivity period has already come to
an end. We are in discussions with BCP-
Ageas regarding the longer-term nature of
our business relationship.
At 31 December 2011 AUM for strategic
partners were £60.2 billion (2010: £67.0
billion) representing 60 per cent. of our total
AUM. Due to the lower fees that we receive
for managing these assets, our revenue from
strategic partners is considerably less at
some 30 per cent. of 2011 revenues.
Friends Life has set out its intention to
establish an in-house asset management
function and, as previously disclosed, has
served notice to withdraw £2.3 billion of
assets at the end of this year. Our
expectation is that all or most of the assets
that we manage for Friends Life may be
withdrawn at the expiration of the contractual
exclusivity periods, which occur at various
times up to October 2014. Our strategy, as
set out in October 2011, anticipated this
potential withdrawal and we intend to offset it
through reductions of related costs and a
focus on generating new business.
As disclosed in our Interim Report, the
agreement to outsource certain back and
middle office functions to State Street came
into effect on 1 July with all impacted staff
now transferred to State Street. The project
has been managed successfully, with
minimal disruption to client servicing. As we
complete our move to State Street’s strategic
platform over the course of 2012, we expect
to deliver the cost savings associated with
this project.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 05
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 5 Summary
While the macroeconomic outlook remains
challenging and geopolitical instabilities
persist, markets have begun to make
headway in 2012 with the FTSE 100 Index
rising 5.4 per cent. to the end of February.
Encouragingly, our relative investment
performance has also been strong in the first
two months of 2012.
After six years as Chief Executive of F&C, this
will be my last report as I will be retiring from
the Board at the conclusion of the Annual
General Meeting in May. It has been a
privilege to serve as Chief Executive and in
particular to guide F&C through a period
which saw the two most significant market
downturns in eighty years. I wish my
colleagues on the Board and all of the staff at
F&C every success for the future.
Alain Grisay
Chief Executive
15 March 2012
The ongoing European
sovereign debt crisis continued
to cast a cloud of uncertainty
over the global economy during
2011 as solvency fears spread
beyond Greece, Ireland and
Portugal to the much larger
economies of Spain and Italy.
06 | BUSINESS REVIEW | Chief Executive’s Report
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 6
