 2011 was a significant year for F&C with
changes in the composition of the Board and
important progress made in developing its
strategy. A review of business flows,
investment performance and operational
developments, is provided in the Chief
Executive’s Report.
Five new Directors joined the Board, three as
a result of the changes which arose from the
Extraordinary General Meeting in February
2011, which was covered in last year’s
Annual Report, and the subsequent
appointment of two additional Directors. In
the second half of 2011, Keith Jones and
Keith Percy were appointed as Independent
Non-Executive Directors. Both Mr Jones and
Mr Percy bring considerable industry
expertise to the Board as former chief
executive officers of major asset
management firms. Additional information on
the recently appointed and incumbent
Directors is included on page 22.
The Board has been conducting a
comprehensive review of strategy during the
year. As I wrote in last year’s report, F&C has
a great many strengths, including a strong
brand, competitive investment performance
across a range of products and high quality
professionals, but these have not been
reflected in its financial performance in recent
years. The goal of the review is therefore to
enhance shareholder value.
In setting the parameters for the revised
strategy the Board agreed three key
objectives:
• Generate above-average shareholder
returns with below-average volatility
• Achieve competitive scale in areas of
strategic focus
• Create a stable environment for
long-term growth
The first phase of this work completed in
October and focused on addressing certain
corporate issues, as well as the growth
strategy for our institutional business. In
particular, we announced steps to improve
profitability through an additional £21.2 million
expense reduction programme over and
above the £12.0 million target set-out at the
start of the year from the operational
outsourcing project and related restructuring.
These combined £33.2 million cost
reductions, which will substantially be
achieved by the end of this year and fully
achieved during 2013, will enhance
underlying earnings and the level of dividend
cover and provide the Group with the ability
to accelerate the retirement of its long-term
debt. Improving the Group’s financial position
will better enable F&C to implement its
revenue growth plans, with consistent
investment in the resources required to
support growth.
Our revised institutional strategy is to focus
on those areas where F&C has existing scale
and marketable track records in products
that meet the needs of insurance companies
and pension schemes. Both of these large
client groups are increasingly focused on
immunising liabilities, with fixed income as
the core asset class in their portfolios. F&C
has significant scale in fixed income, good
performance track records and has gathered
strong consultant support for its expertise in
Liability Driven Investment.
The second phase of the strategic review,
which will cover the growth strategies for our
retail, wholesale, investment trust and
real-estate businesses, is ongoing. We
expect to conclude this work in May.
Results and Dividend
The underlying profit after tax was £28.4
million compared to £28.8 million in 2010.
This represents underlying earnings per share
of 5.5 pence for 2011 (2010: 5.7 pence).
On a statutory reporting basis, which
includes exceptional and non-cash items, the
Group made a profit after tax of £2.6 million,
compared to a loss after tax of £13.4 million
in 2010. This represents a basic loss per
share of 0.1 pence compared to a loss of
3.3 pence in 2010.
The Board is recommending an unchanged
final dividend of 2.0 pence per share,
payable on 25 May 2012 to shareholders on
the register at 30 March 2012. This brings
full-year dividends to 3.0 pence per share
(2010: 3.0 pence per share).
Retirement of Alain Grisay
In October 2011 the Group announced that
Alain Grisay would be retiring in the latter part
of 2012 and would therefore step down as
Chief Executive and from the Board at the
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in
May. As part of a gradual and orderly
handover of responsibilities, I have
temporarily taken on the position of Executive
Chairman. This is an interim measure while
the Group completes its strategic review and
implements the related actions. The Board
expects that the roles of Chairman and Chief
Executive will be separated again by the time
of the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
As a result of the handover, and to ensure
accountability for delivery of goals for each
business line, we have clarified senior
management responsibilities. Richard Wilson
is now head of our Investment and
Institutional Business and Charlie Porter is
head of our Retail and Wholesale Business
(which incorporates investment trusts).
Responsibility for F&C REIT, our real-estate
business, and F&C Portugal remains
unchanged.
On behalf of the Board and management
team, I would like to thank Alain Grisay for
the huge contribution he has made to F&C
over many years, the last six of which he has
served as Chief Executive. His notable
achievements include successfully leading
F&C through a period of ownership
uncertainty to an independent stock market
listing and the acquisitions of Thames River
and REIT Asset Management. Alain leaves
F&C with our very best wishes for the future.
Edward Bramson
Executive Chairman
15 March 2012
2011 was a significant year
for F&C with changes in the
composition of the Board and
important progress made in
developing its strategy.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 03
Welcome from the Chairman
16272 F&C Annual Report_Part 1:Layout 1 28/03/2012 18:11 Page 3
