 6
Chief Executive’s Report
Last year I reported the launch of a three-year plan, focused on
targeting specialist areas and higher margin products, to foster
profitable organic growth. Consistent with this strategy, our Key
Performance Indicators are biased towards growth, rather than
short term operating margin or assets under management.
The first phase of this plan required accelerated investment in
people, products and infrastructure to ensure we deliver strong
investment performance on existing funds and upgrade our
product suite, distribution resources and operating platform.
Underpinning this we identified a portfolio of eight product and
marketing initiatives for 2007, as well as specific infrastructure
investments.
In spite of turbulent markets in the second half of the year and the
corporate backdrop, discussed further below, I am pleased to report
good overall progress in executing the first year of our plan. Our
portfolio approach to new initiatives, combined with a careful
monitoring of progress in each, provided us with the flexibility to
adjust the mix of the investment programme throughout the year
in light of market developments. In aggregate, the revenues and
costs of these initiatives were well within the parameters of our plan.
The financial outcome for 2007 is slightly ahead of our plans, with
underlying earnings per share of 10.4 pence and operating margin
of 30.9 per cent. Our average fee rate has continued to rise
progressively from 21.6 basis points in 2006 to 22.5 in 2007
reflecting our focus on increasing revenue margins.
Business Flows
2007 was another record year for our UK retail funds business
with £703 million of inflows into open ended funds. Our net sales
rose 28 per cent. during a period when, according to the
Investment Management Association, net sales of UK domiciled
retail funds actually declined by 38 per cent. Importantly, inflows
were across a broad number of funds including multi-manager,
ethical, corporate bond, UK and Asian equity funds. We have
excellent momentum in UK retail and have secured a number of
new distribution agreements with adviser firms that should allow
us to build sales further during 2008.
Having disclosed in January 2007 that we had received
notification of institutional withdrawals during 2007 of £5.2 billion,
final institutional outflows totalled £6.1 billion including an 
£800 million withdrawal from Cambridge University notified in
September 2007, following its decision to establish its own
investment office. We recorded increased institutional inflows of
£3.3 billion during the year and obtained eleven new consultant
“buy” ratings. Average fees on institutional inflows were higher
than average fees lost on institutional outflows, reflecting the
implementation of our strategy.
Investment Performance
Investment performance was strong across a number of key
products and asset classes during 2007 resulting in performance
fees increasing by more than 100 per cent. We out-performed in
core UK equities, UK high alpha, UK small cap, pan-European
equities, emerging equities, global equities, UK credit, high yield
bonds, emerging debt and convertibles. Performance was
excellent in Asia ex Japan and emerging equities. The latter result
is particularly pleasing as it vindicates the actions taken to rebuild
our emerging equities team in 2006.
We under performed in US, Japanese and Continental European
equities and UK government bonds and global credit. Where
necessary we have taken action to improve performance in these
asset classes.  For example, we have appointed a new Head of
European equities and, in the case of US large cap equities, we
moved all mandates to our Quantitative Equity Strategies desk at
the start of 2008. 
Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) funds under performed their
unscreened sectors during 2007 as they are naturally biased
towards small caps and were limited in their ability to participate
in oil and gas and mining shares, as well as certain defensive
sectors such as tobacco. However, our SRI funds remain
positioned as market leaders against their ethically screened
competitors and we expect to see ongoing strong demand for
sustainable investments. 
Investment in Products, People and Infrastructure
New product development was a key feature of 2007, particularly
in the first half of the year. In addition to those products identified
in my interim report and at the launch of the three-year plan, we
also launched an innovative multi-asset Diversified Growth Fund
and the first ‘130/30’ fund focused on UK equities. We further
built our sustainable investment range with new funds focused on
ethical bonds and the investment opportunities linked to climate
change. In The Netherlands we launched our own fiduciary
management service to respond to the structural changes in 
that market.
We also continued work on our infrastructure platform. We
successfully brought in-house the element of our operations that
had previously been outsourced to Mellon and now have in place
a single, integrated operational function that leaves us better
placed to take on new business and ensure consistency of service.
As we recognise the efficiencies generated by these infrastructure
developments and other investments we would anticipate a
reduction in head count from the end of 2007 levels. Likewise, we
implemented a new front-office Decision, Risk and Dealing (DRD)
system to support the delivery of investment performance,
particularly as we develop more sophisticated products.
We have made additional investments in human capital, following
on from the substantial upgrades of our investment teams in
2006. Much of our recruitment in 2007 has been focused on the
further development of our distribution capabilities to allow us to
achieve increased inflows over the coming years. In particular we
recruited a Head of Distribution and Business Development to
lead the distribution drive in our international wholesale and
institutional businesses and a Head of Product Management to
improve the speed of delivery of new product initiatives. We have
strengthened distribution teams in The Netherlands, Germany and
the UK and opened an office in Sweden. We have also registered
our funds into a number of new jurisdictions including Austria,
Switzerland and the Nordic region.
Outlook
With strong performance, an enhanced product suite and
additional hires in sales and business development, the focus of
6 7
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
2008 will be distribution. In Europe we will continue to deepen our
presence in existing markets as well as extend into new territories.
We have recently concluded a distribution deal with the Allfunds
Bank platform that will provide us access to a broad base of
distributors located in several markets, including Spain and Italy.
Moreover, we have recently established distribution relationships
with banks in both Italy and Russia. We are also finding
opportunities outside of Europe, including a new agreement with
IM Trust that will provide us with access to the Chilean market
and are exploring initiatives in Asia and the Middle East.
Against this backdrop of good progress in executing the plan
there are undoubtedly challenges ahead, not least from a
deteriorating economic environment and volatile markets. We
believe that our strategy of being a diversified business by asset
class, client type and geography positions us well to weather the
storm. We have no direct exposure to US sub-prime mortgages
and limited exposure to structured credit instruments. However,
volatile markets undoubtedly present significant challenges for
active investors and hamper net sales. 
In our 2006 Annual Report & Financial Statements, we stated that:
“we are setting ourselves a target of increasing underlying EPS by
50 per cent. from 2007 to 2009”. Since that statement was made
the Company has entered into an Offer Period and has confirmed
with the Takeover Panel that this target qualifies as a Profit Forecast
for the purposes of the Takeover Code. Given its duration the
target cannot be reported on as a Profit Forecast as required by
the Takeover Code and in the absence of such a report the
Company is unable to provide an assurance that the target will be
achieved. Accordingly shareholders should not rely upon it.
As outlined earlier the Board and management are pleased with
the progress to-date in implementing its strategy and during 2007
launched a number of new products, recruited high quality
professionals and improved investment performance in key
product areas. However, since publishing the earnings target a
number of factors have affected our business including the
uncertainty surrounding Friends Provident, the recent
announcement by Friends Provident that it is considering
divesting its shareholding in the company and deteriorating
market conditions. The combination of these factors is impacting
some client and consultant decisions on new business and has
resulted in there being an increased level of uncertainty around
the timing of the growth anticipated in the plan. Nevertheless the
Board and management remains committed to the strategic
direction set out in the plan and its focus on seeking organic
growth opportunities in higher revenue margin and specialist
product areas. The Board and management believe that the
group will increase its rate of progress once market conditions
stabilise and our long term ownership is resolved.
Alain L. Grisay
Chief Executive
6 March 2008 8
Expect excellence 9
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007
“2007 saw F&C embark on a major sponsorship
deal with Birmingham City Football Club. 
This exciting development promotes brand
awareness through many sectors of the media.’’
