 Corporate developments
This is my first statement as Chairman of your Company, having
assumed the role in August 2013 following Sherborne’s distribution
of shares and Edward Bramson’s departure from the Board. The
distribution of Sherborne’s 20 per cent holding in the Company to
their underlying investors not only increased the shareholdings of a
number of institutions who were already owners of the Company’s
shares, it also resulted in the widening of the Company’s
shareholder base through the introduction of a number of new
shareholders. We welcome both developments.
In 2013, your Company has made good progress towards its strategic
goals. Overall profitability has increased, our cost base continues to fall
and we have generated net inflows within our strategically important
Consumer and Institutional businesses. While the business remains
exposed to the future actions of our Strategic Partners, who
collectively accounted for 51.5 per cent of our year-end assets under
management (AUM) and 29 per cent of our 2013 net revenue, I believe
that the positive momentum we have created within the business was
a key factor in attracting the offer from BMO Global Asset
Management (Europe) Limited (BMO), (a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Bank of Montreal) announced on 28 January this year.
The proposed transaction with BMO, which the Board believes is in
the best interests of shareholders, clients and staff, represents an
important and positive development in your Company’s history, and
provides shareholders with an attractive premium against the
potential medium-term standalone prospects and valuation of your
Company. On 25 March 2014, shareholders approved the
acquisition. Completion of the acquisition, however, remains subject
to the satisfaction of certain regulatory and other conditions.
In 2008/9 the Company was in a prolonged offer period as a result
of Friends Provident’s strategic review. Shareholders may recall the
significant challenges that this presented to client and staff retention,
as well as limiting our ability to attract new funds flows. I am
therefore pleased to report that we have received an overwhelmingly
positive reaction from our clients, employees and other stakeholders
to this transaction. This means that to date we have seen limited
impact from the announcement. The Board is focused on ensuring
the risk to the business from any further prolonged period of
corporate uncertainty is minimised.
2013 results and dividend
Underlying earnings per share (EPS) rose 25.7 per cent to 8.8 pence
with underlying profit after tax rising from £37.1 million in 2012 to
£49.0 million in 2013. On a statutory reporting basis, which includes
exceptional and non-cash items, the Group made a profit after tax
of £10.2 million, compared to a profit after tax of £2.6 million in
2012. Basic EPS therefore also rose from a loss of 0.1 pence to
earnings of 1.5 pence. Further details of the improved profitability
are set out in Richard Wilson’s Chief Executive Report,
accompanying this statement.
In the 28 January 2014 announcement, we declared an ordinary
course dividend of 2.0 pence per share for the year ended
31 December 2013, payable on 20 May 2014 (or earlier if the cash
consideration pursuant to the intended transaction with BMO is
dispatched to shareholders ahead of that date) to shareholders
on the register at 4 April 2014. This brings full-year dividends to
3.0 pence per share, which is the same as that paid in respect
of 2012.
Board changes
As highlighted in last year’s Annual Report, Ian Brindle and Jeff
Medlock retired from the Board on conclusion of the Annual General
Meeting held on 10 May 2013. Since that date we have welcomed
two new Directors to the Board, Charlie Porter and Ruth Sack.
Charlie was formerly Chief Executive of Thames River Capital and
therefore joined the Board as a non-independent Non-executive
Director. Ruth is a partner in The Alliance coaching partnership and
joined the Board as an Independent Non-executive Director. Both
Charlie and Ruth have made significant contributions to Board
discussions and are important additions to the Board.
It is with great sadness that we record the death of Alain Grisay.
Alain had been with F&C from 2001 until his retirement in 2012, and
had been the Company’s Chief Executive since 2006. Alain’s
contribution to F&C, not least steering the Company through the
financial crisis in 2008 and the demerger of F&C from Friends
Provident in 2009, was very significant. He was a visionary executive
and business leader with the utmost integrity and someone who
was always concerned about fairness and equality for employees.
Alain will be sadly missed by all of us who had the privilege of both
knowing him and of working together. Our thoughts are with his
family and friends.
Summary
2013 has been an eventful year for your Company and one in which
we have made good progress. The improved profitability reflected in
the Financial Statements demonstrates the focus your Board, the
management team and all staff have had on developing the
business in recent years. It also illustrates the focus we have on
meeting or exceeding the expectations of our clients, without whom
we would have no business. Our corporate values, placing clients’
interests at the centre of all we do, will continue to remain of
paramount importance to us in the future.
My thanks go to our management and staff for their efforts throughout
the year that have enabled us to report the improvement in our results.
Kieran Poynter
Chairman
9 April 2014
Chairman’s Statement
02 | CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT |
