 4
Chairman’s letter
Dear Shareholder  BP has delivered another excellent set of
results for the year. Sustained high oil and gas prices, coupled
with advances in operational performance, have resulted in 
a strong cash flow, accelerating our returns to shareholders 
in the near term through significant share repurchases.
Returning cash in excess of our investment requirements to
our shareholders – both through buybacks and our continued
pursuit of a progressive dividend policy – is fundamental to 
our strategy. 
Exchange-rate issues – especially the relative weakness 
of the dollar in the past year – have been felt by those who
receive their dividends in sterling. Over the longer term,
fluctuating exchange rates generally benefit shareholders 
on each side of the Atlantic at different times. For instance, 
in the five-year period from 1996 to 2001, the sterling dividend
rose by 58%. The rationale for declaring our dividend in US
dollars remains sound, since our principal businesses all trade
in that currency. While headline increases in sterling and dollar
dividends show a differential, the key element to note is that
both are growing.
2004 has seen a rapid acceleration of our buyback programme,
with $7.5 billion worth of shares bought back and cancelled
during the year. While this has been welcomed by larger 
and institutional investors, the benefit for all shareholders
committed to long-term investment in BP will be felt through
the ultimate capital appreciation of their shares. The board
keeps its strategy in this area under review to ensure the
balance between dividend and buybacks remains appropriate
for our owners as a whole.
Against this background, our confidence in the future 
of the business enables us to make a step change in the 
fourth-quarter dividend, which I am pleased to confirm 
as 8.50 cents per share. This makes the annual payment 
29.45 cents per share or 16.099 pence per share, an increase
in dollar terms over last year of 13% and an increase of 4% 
in sterling terms. 
2004 saw heightened regulatory attention on our industry, 
not least in the area of the reporting of hydrocarbon reserves.
Reserves reporting is an important measure of our
performance as it demonstrates the extent to which we are
replacing the hydrocarbons we are producing – a particular
strength of BP in recent years. As a UK company, our reserves
are estimated in accordance with UK accounting practice.
These reserves are stated each year in our Annual Report. 
For US regulatory purposes we report reserves estimates 
in accordance with the rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission. During the course of the year, the board and 
its audit committee have exercised considerable scrutiny 
in this area. In this year’s Annual Report, we have included, 
for the first time, US SEC-based estimates in addition to our 
UK reserves bookings. 
Our business is global and complex, and we are fortunate 
to have a first-rate executive team to address these challenges.
During the year, the executive management team, so ably 
led by John Browne, has sustained its formidable track record.
They have our full confidence and support. I would like to thank
John and his team for their exemplary efforts on your behalf 
in 2004. Our thanks are also due to all 102,900 BP employees BP Annual Report and Accounts 2004
5
around the world for their unremitting effort and the value they
have created for our shareholders. 
Within a company with such a strong executive management
team, it is important that the role of the board is understood. As
a board, we are conscious that we oversee the activities of the
business in the interests of all our owners. The recent debate
on corporate governance has focused on the mechanisms of
board process and reporting – ensuring appropriate checks 
and balances are in place. Against this background, too many
company directors have complained that they want to ‘move
away from corporate governance’ and ‘get back to running 
our businesses’. 
Correctly, I think, our board recognizes that the primary
business of the board is corporate governance. Governing 
BP is not a matter to be driven solely by compliance concerns,
but by the business purpose of the company you entrust us 
to govern on your behalf. Our role as a board therefore focuses
on ensuring your interests are promoted and that our business
maximizes long-term value for you, our owners. 
Ensuring that our business remains nimble and competitive,
able to leverage the manifold talents of our managers, is key 
to the pursuit of that goal. To discharge the trust you place in
us as a board, we test the strategic direction of the company’s
business. We also monitor the operations of the business in
pursuit of that strategy to ensure both that BP’s activities live
out the values we set and also, critically, that shareholder value
lies at the heart of all we do. 
2004 saw a continuation of our very significant capital
investment programme that is key to the long-term future 
of our business. As a board, we continue to scrutinize the
strategic direction of the company, especially as our activities
take us to more challenging geographic locations, to ensure
that it continues to provide the prospect of the best long-term
returns for our shareholders.
In the course of the year, significant work has been
undertaken by the chairman’s committee and the nomination
committee, both of which I chair, as issues of executive and
non-executive succession planning and performance come 
into ever-greater focus. Likewise the remuneration committee,
led by Sir Robin Nicholson and his designated successor 
Dr DeAnne Julius, has been heavily engaged in the development
of new incentive plans for our executive directors. 
The board performance report on pages 110-115 expands
upon the way in which the board and its committees discharge
their mandate of governance. 
Last year, I commented on board succession and
development planning for the coming years. At the forthcoming
AGM, two of our senior non-executive directors, Sir Robin
Nicholson and Charles (Chuck) Knight, will step down.
Robin has served on the BP board since 1987 and has
been an excellent chairman of our remuneration committee.
He has had a substantial impact on the board and the company
over the past 17 years and been a major contributor to all
our board debates; we shall miss his wisdom and insight.
On a personal note, I shall miss his sage counsel and technical
insight, but am delighted that he has agreed to continue to
chair the group’s technology advisory committee in the
short term.
Chuck Knight also joined the board in 1987. His perspective
on corporate practices in the United States and experience 
as a senior chief executive operating within the US market
have proved invaluable, not least as BP has evolved in that
marketplace over the past two decades. I will miss his unique
contributions to the board’s discussions. 
I would like to thank both Robin and Chuck on your behalf 
for all their years of distinguished service.
The endorsement of the strength of our executive team 
by the invitation extended to Dick Olver to take on the
chairmanship of BAE Systems plc was, of course, tinged 
with sadness at having to bid farewell to a first-rate colleague,
who had served the company so well over the past 31 years.
We wish Dick well for the future and thank him for his years 
of dedicated service to BP .
Three new appointments have been made to the board 
in the last year. Iain Conn has been appointed an executive
director. Iain has had a substantial career within BP and is
responsible for strategic resources. Sir Tom McKillop, chief
executive of AstraZeneca PLC, joined the board in July 2004 
and Douglas Flint, chief financial officer of HSBC Holdings plc,
joined in January 2005. Each brings his own particular skills 
and experience to complement those of his fellow directors 
in the coming years. 
The world in which BP operates is ever more complex 
and challenging. The coming year will see the continued
development of our business strategy. I believe your board is
well resourced to address shareholders’ interests during this
period. I look forward to reporting on their successful advance
in the years ahead. We have an exciting future together. 
Thank you for all your continued support and interest in 
this company.
Peter Sutherland
Chairman
7 February 2005
