 6
Group chief executive’s review
Dear Shareholder 2004 was a great year for BP . In terms of
overall performance, it was the best since the recent series 
of mergers and acquisitions. 
High demand for energy and higher oil prices certainly
contributed to our performance and led to our record financial
results. But our success in 2004 was based on more than
these external factors. 
We showed that we had the capability to deliver our strategy
and to translate our scope and scale into competitive advantage.
We demonstrated that we had the human talent to increase
production, make new discoveries, gain new customers,
enhance safety and grow our reputation. Our global workforce
worked as a seamless team and I thank every one of them. 
As you read this Annual Report and follow our efforts to 
create value, it may be helpful to understand how we achieve
excellent performance. 
Our purpose and strategy We begin with our purpose as a
group – to provide better goods and services in the form 
of light, heat, power and mobility to increasing numbers of
people. To succeed, we do this in a way that is profitable,
sustainable and consistent. This is reflected in value generated
for shareholders. 
To deliver profitable performance, we provide high-quality
products in a competitive way – maximizing revenues and
minimizing costs. 
To deliver sustainable performance, we also provide these
products in a sustainable way – attracting the best people,
accessing large-scale oil and gas resources, building markets 
in which we enjoy customers’ trust while doing business in a
mutually advantageous way that brings benefits to everyone
concerned – customers, communities, governments, suppliers,
citizens – and so generates ‘repeat business’. 
To deliver consistent performance, we invest enough to
deliver long-term growth, while balancing this with returns 
to our shareholders. Too fast a growth rate is unsustainable,
while too slow a rate sacrifices competitive advantage. Our
analysis gives us confidence that an investment level of around
$14 billion is right for 2005 and 2006, taking into account the
present level of the dollar and recent sector-specific inflation. 
To achieve our purpose, we have a strategy. We make
choices about the assets and markets where we operate. 
Our business strategy remains unchanged. In Exploration
and Production, we seek out long-term assets – the largest,
low-cost, new hydrocarbon deposits – while managing the
decline of mature fields. In our customer-facing businesses, 
we look to attract more and more customers through improved
quality of products and service. Our challenge is to add new
sources of cash flow whose cash returns are at least as good
as existing ones. 
2004 in context  As I wrote last year, we started 2004 with
greater scale, common values and a clear strategy. But nothing
was a given. We were cautious about our ability to execute –
whether our people operating in 100 countries could effectively
translate our worldwide assets into world-class performance.
We were wary of global developments, including ongoing
conflict in Iraq, the threat of terrorism and public mistrust of
large companies. And we found ourselves in one of the more
volatile oil markets in history, driven by demand and anxiety
about supply. Against this backdrop, the team delivered 
record performance.
As the world’s energy market entered uncharted territory in
2004, the subject of the future of energy supply took centre
stage. Rising demand – which matched the rate of global
economic growth for the first time in 30 years – produced both
short-term anxiety about fuel prices and long-term concern
about supply. Had there been a fundamental shift in the oil
market? Were there enough reserves? What else could disrupt
supply? Were companies investing enough to meet demand?
In this uncertain climate, a little history can be reassuring.
Clearly, questions over security of supplies have driven oil
prices upwards. But, amid all the market disruptions of the past
few years, supply has never fallen short of demand. Increased
investment by the private sector has led to production gains 
of more than 15% a year during the last five years. Global
production in 2004 rose at the fourth-highest rate in history.
Choosing our goals We execute our strategy against the
context of the time. We make plans to achieve three targets:
• To underpin growth by a focus on performance, particularly
on cash returns, investing at a rate appropriate for long-term
growth. 
• To increase dividends. 
• To return to shareholders, by way of share buybacks, 
100% of free cash flow generated above what is needed 
for investment and dividends: this generally occurs, all 
other things being appropriate, when the price of oil 
exceeds $20 a barrel. 
These plans are executed by applying resources and
capabilities across the organization. 
In last year’s report, I wrote that organizational alignment 
and operational excellence would shape our future as a group
and that we had developed a new management framework 
to harness the energy and imagination of our people. In 2004,
we took further steps to embed these common values and
processes, clarifying individual accountability. In 2005, 
we will issue a new code of conduct to ensure that each
individual in BP continues to exhibit high and consistent
standards of ethical behaviour. 
We continue to innovate and apply leading-edge technology.
For example, our new Thunder Horse platform in the
deepwater Gulf of Mexico breaks many records as the largest
floating facility and will operate in the deepest water, with the
harshest reservoir pressure and temperature regime.
We also continue to strengthen the development opportunities
that we offer to our people. For example, we have the Projects
Academy, in which we partner with the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology to help people gain best-in-class project
management skills. 
We measure the views of our staff through a People
Assurance Survey. In 2004, this showed a significant rise in 
