 2 Finsbury Food Group  
Annual Report & Accounts 2016
F rom stepping stones  
to strong foundations
Chairman’s Statement
“The emphasis and  
 investment put into  
 innovation, helped by  
 new facilities and driven  
 by talented NPD teams,  
 has really delivered for the  
 Group and is an excellent  
 platform for the future.”
Peter Baker
Non-Executive Chairman 3 Finsbury Food Group  
Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Moving the business forward  
to become the leading speciality 
bakery group in the UK, is driving 
our agenda. 
Our structures and processes are adjusting 
and altering to suit the needs of a significantly 
larger and more diversified Group. New roles 
and responsibilities have been taken on by 
many and we continue to invest in people 
in order to train and develop our dedicated 
teams. The Board is undergoing changes as 
well, ensuring the composition, skills and 
governance are appropriate for the future.  
From the outside, without the previous year’s 
acquisitions of Fletchers and Johnstone’s it may  
appear that this financial year has been less 
exciting and busy. However, delivering on our 
vision, integrating these acquisitions and 
embarking on some exciting projects, whilst 
achieving a successful financial performance,  
has actually meant that has been far from  
the case.
The Results
The headline annual financial results were 
assisted somewhat by the prior year’s 
acquisitions with turnover for the 53 weeks 
at just under £320m, up 24.8% (52 weeks, 
£313.5m up 22.4%), profit before tax at  
£16.0m for the 53 weeks, up 41% (£15.7m 52 
weeks, up 38%) and debt at 0.8 times EBITDA. 
Importantly, the underlying business 
performance was strong and exceeded 
expectations in a number of areas, including 
those not benefiting from the acquisitions.  
A full financial review is available later on in 
the Report. 
This favourable outcome has been achieved 
through the hard work of Finsbury’s committed 
team, sound business decision-making and the  
reliable manufacture and supply of great quality  
products. The headwinds we encountered were  
much as anticipated, principally a challenging 
market place and an uncertain macro-economic 
outlook, but strong leadership has meant we 
have overcome these challenges successfully.  
One of the hidden highlights this year has been  
the 5% like for like organic revenue growth that 
the business has achieved, particularly when 
set against a deflationary and competitive 
market, with a demanding customer base and 
a discerning consumer. The emphasis and 
investment put into innovation, helped by new 
facilities and driven by talented NPD teams, 
has really delivered for the Group and is an 
excellent platform for the future. 
Investing for the Future
The Group, along with other food businesses, 
will face inflationary pressures through both 
commodities cost increases, further driven 
by currency weakness post Brexit and the 
National Living Wage. 
The teams have done an excellent job in 
anticipating these changes and our plans 
and investments are aligned to dealing with 
these. The Board has both the financial 
capability and the will to invest for the future. 
We are investing in new plant, equipment and 
systems as well as taking on the important 
change of sustainability and environmental 
responsibility. 
The additional work required to deliver such 
projects successfully is often forgotten but it 
is a great testament to the teams to have not 
just maintained performance, but actually 
to have bolstered it, whilst undertaking an 
extensive programme of investment and 
integration.
Board Development
Alongside the work on business and strategy 
development, the Board is changing to reflect 
the different requirements of the business. 
The Board needs to have the appropriate skills 
and experience and a clear remit and purpose, 
across all areas that are being worked on and 
developed. 
In terms of corporate governance, we are 
focusing on our processes and procedures to 
ensure that they are in line with best practice 
and relevant for a business of our size and 
position. Typically the Board meets at one 
of our sites to combine the normal meeting 
agenda with a site update, to ensure, amongst 
others, that the Non-Executive Directors 
are well briefed. Our committees have also 
delivered excellently this year, particularly 
as both have taken on increased workloads 
driven by the acquisitions and changes that 
were undertaken. 
During the year we announced the addition 
of two new Non-Executive Directors, Marnie 
Millard and Zoe Morgan, and the forthcoming 
retirements from the Board of Paul Monk and 
Edward Beale, at the 2016 AGM. I look forward 
to working with Zoe and Marnie and thank 
Paul and Edward, who each have been on the 
Board for over 14 years, for their outstanding 
contribution and commitment to the Group. 
Strategy for Continued Growth
The Board has devoted a lot of time this year 
to reviewing the Group’s strategy. As we are  
a much larger business and in a much stronger  
position than previously, we can be ambitious 
in our plans to grow the business still further.  
Step changes in turnover will only be achieved  
through further acquisitions. We are clear on the  
areas and sectors that are attractive and our 
prudent approach will be maintained to ensure 
a clear strategic fit. We have the capability both  
financially and in terms of leadership to be 
confident in taking these steps but will do 
so only if the right opportunities present 
themselves.
The foundations are laid for the next steps  
and we are looking forward to another 
successful year.
Finally, on behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank everyone who works at Finsbury 
for delivering such a successful year, their 
contribution and passion continues to drive  
the business forward.
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval at the 
Company’s AGM on 23 November 2016, the 
final dividend of 1.87 pence per share will be 
paid on 16 December 2016 to all shareholders 
on the register at 18 November 2016 and will 
be recognised in the financial year ending  
1 July 2017.
