 4 Finsbury Food Group  
Annual Report & Accounts 2016
F rom substantial investment  
to significant growth
2016 has been a tremendously busy 
but rewarding year for Finsbury.  
We delivered on our growth 
aspirations and made great strides 
towards our vision of building the 
leading speciality bakery group in 
the UK focused on quality products.
Finsbury has a clear vision and strategy, is 
demonstrating strong sales and profit growth 
whilst also stepping up capital investment 
to unlock future growth and efficiency 
opportunities. 
Integrating the Fletchers and Johnstone’s prior 
year acquisitions whilst cementing a stronger 
platform for future growth were our twin 
priorities for the last financial year. Meaningful 
change is delivered in increments, a gradual 
evolution of the key elements of a business. 
Integration of acquired businesses takes 
considerable time and effort. Management 
teams across all business have responded  
with energy and expertise to share knowledge, 
unlock synergies in a timely fashion and share 
best practice. 
Strategically the Group achieved further 
diversification of channel, customers and 
products following the prior year acquisitions. 
Over 21% of our UK bakery sales are now 
into the faster growing ‘out of home eating’ 
foodservice channel, from zero two years ago, 
with foodservice items supplied from six of 
our eight bakeries. We also sell a vast array 
of specialty cake, bread and morning good 
products to all major UK grocery retailers  
from premium to discounter.
After several years of unstinting effort across  
the Group, the fruits of change are emerging.  
It gives me great pleasure to report a significant 
rise in top and bottom line growth for the current 
financial year. As the first full trading year 
following the acquisitions, it was pleasing to 
exceed the 2014 equity raise sales and profit 
expectations for shareholders. 
Results in Perspective
Our business is performing strongly. Organic 
growth of 5% for the year was well spread, 
exceeding that of the markets we operate in 
and our initial expectations, especially in the 
first half.
The UK bakery division like for like growth of 3% 
was strong but outshone by stellar growth of 
over 25% in the Overseas division, the Group’s 
50% owned European business, as a result of 
improved distribution of licensed celebration 
cake and free from bakery ranges. UK bakery 
growth was well diversified across different 
products, customers and channels given the 
largely new mix brought by both Johnstone's 
and Fletchers.
Consumer appetite for the breadth and quality of  
our offering is clear, illustrated by the continued 
growth of our premium traditional bespoke 
products, such as artisan breads and licensed 
celebration cakes.
Our drive to advance has been constant. We are 
investing across all aspects of the business to 
deliver a stronger platform for future growth.
Investment comes in many forms and our scale 
requires the correct level of infrastructure. 
The record £12m annual capital expenditure 
being most tangible which has facilitated a new  
artisan bread bakery, increased hot cross bun  
capacity and further cake automation, ensuring 
we offer the right growth products at the right 
price for our customers.
Our people are essential to the continued 
success of the larger Group. As such we have 
set out to strengthen our culture and the 
Finsbury way of doing business. Working from 
the bottom up in small groups at each site 
we have agreed on a common set of Finsbury 
Group values, these will cement our approach 
and behaviours as a business. A more 
comprehensive long-term people strategy 
has also been created and is now being rolled 
out. Elements of this include improving 
employee engagement, implementing talent 
management and offering an enhanced 
leadership development programme. 
As a large, diversified bakery Group, investing 
in business process is essential. We constantly 
strive to reap scale benefits and become more  
efficient, whether automating low skilled bakery  
tasks or removing inefficiencies within non-value 
added elements of our business processes. 
One especially noteworthy project is the upgrade  
and ongoing roll out across the Group businesses 
of the Fletchers IT software platform following 
a comprehensive best practice review.
Looking ahead, the enlarged multi channel 
business is in good shape for the growth 
opportunities and challenges ahead, with 
strongly performing businesses and a strong 
balance sheet.
The devaluation of Sterling post Brexit will, if 
maintained, lead to a new era of cost inflation 
for many of our raw materials regardless of any 
potential change in consumer confidence or 
shopping behaviour. Planned future National 
Living Wage increases will similarly increase 
our costs and put pressure on our margins.  
We are working hard to offset this cost inflation  
through enhanced internal efficiency. Inevitably 
such pressures are inflationary.
We have demonstrated our ability to grow 
organically as well as by acquisition, which is 
important for the journey ahead. Investment 
has already been prioritised as an integral part 
of our strategy to better prepare us for the 
uncertain environment ahead, improving our 
competitiveness and ability to fulfil customer 
and consumer needs.
I would like to thank all the staff across  
the Finsbury Group for their dedication  
and unrelenting efforts over recent years.  
In particular I would like to recognise the major 
contribution by new people coming into the 
Group over the past few years.
I remain confident that the patient, unwavering 
strategy adopted and well laid foundations 
over recent years will reap benefits for the 
business in the years ahead.
Chief Executive’s Report 5 Finsbury Food Group  
Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Trading Performance
Results for the full 53-week period ended  
2 July 2016 are described in greater depth in 
the Strategic Report but there are a number  
of areas I would like to take this opportunity  
to highlight:
•   Group revenue of £319.7m up 24.8%,  
52 week revenue £313.5m up 22.4% 
(2015: £256.2m) and up £12.8m, 5.0%  
on a like for like basis*
1
.
•   Adjusted profit before tax of £16.0m  
up 40.8%, 52 week £15.7m up 37.6%, 
(2015: £11.4m) and up 17.1% on a like  
for like basis*
1
.
•   Increase in operating gross margin  
to 5.3% (2015: 4.8%) following record 
capital investment of £12.1m (2015: 
£7.4m) and operational initiatives.
•   Strong growth in diluted adjusted*
2
 EPS,  
up 19% to 9.5p per share (2015: 8.0p  
per share).
•   Final dividend per share of 1.87p taking 
the total dividend for the year to 2.8p per 
share up 12% (2015: 2.5p per share).
•   Net debt £19.7m (2015: £21.3m) equates 
to 0.8 times EBITDA of the Group.
•   Foodservice 21.2% of total UK bakery sales 
up from 14.0% and up 5.3% on a like for 
like basis.
•   Successful integration of Fletchers Group 
and Johnstone’s Foodservice Ltd (JFS).
•   Implementation of new Group-wide IT 
business system is underway.
•   Significant product innovation; including 
Kara branded cakes launched into 
Foodservice channel, investment in 
muffin, doughnut and hot cross bun 
capability and capacity.
•  Successful roll out of company vision  
 and values across all levels throughout  
 the business.
•  JFS winner of Costa supplier of the year.
• Winner of Celebration Cake Business  
 of the Year for 2016 at the Bakery  
 Industry Awards.
*1 Like for like growth is calculated using financial data  
 for a 52 week period and only where there are comparative  
 trading figures for the prior year for the acquired  
 businesses. The 52 week period is calculated by  
 eliminating the result for the 53rd week in the  
 financial year ended 2 July 2016.
 *2 Adjusted diluted EPS has been calculated using earnings  
 excluding the 53rd week, amortisation of intangibles  
 and significant non-recurring and other items as shown  
 on the face of the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other  
 Comprehensive Income. The adjusted diluted EPS has  
 been given as in the opinion of the Board this will  
 allow shareholders to gain a clearer understanding  
 of the trading performance of the Group.
“We have demonstrated  
 our ability to grow  
 organically as well as  
 by acquisition, which  
 is important for the  
 journey ahead.”
John Duffy
Chief Executive Officer
