 04 f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16
introduction
The second full year of our three-year transformation 
plan saw Flybe grow seat capacity by 9.7%, passenger 
volumes by 5.9% and passenger revenue by 8.2%, 
as well as deliver a profit, with an adjusted PBT for 
2015/16 of £5.5m. This reflects a c£20m year-on-year 
improvement in profitability even after the adverse 
bookings impact from the Paris events in November, 
absorption of c£20m of cost relating to the E195 jets, 
our last key legacy issue, and pressure on yields from 
industry-wide capacity growth acceleration and lower 
fuel costs.
r esolution of the remaining key legacy issue, surplus 
e195 jets
In November 2015, we announced the resolution of 
our last major legacy issue with the redeployment of 
our remaining nine E195s. In conjunction with regional 
airports, we entered into arrangements that enable 
Flybe to deploy these aircraft on UK regional routes 
while mitigating half of the outstanding £80m financial 
burden to the end of the aircraft leases. 
a gility and delivery in a difficult revenue environment
2015/16 saw an acceleration in seat capacity growth 
rates across the European short-haul sector, enabled 
by industry-wide lower fuel costs. This put significant 
pressure on airline yields, even as the benefits started 
to come through from the unwinding of fuel price 
hedging. This yield pressure was reinforced by the 
adverse impact on bookings following the tragic events 
in Paris in November 2015 and Brussels in March 2016. 
In this difficult revenue environment, we decided to 
protect yields rather than to chase unprofitable marginal 
revenue and slowed our seat capacity growth rate by 
c10ppts to 2.4% in Q4. This enabled us to deliver on a 
full-year basis a 1.7% increase in yields while load factor 
decreased by 2.6ppts to 72.6%, with a corresponding 
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
growth and profitability
Flybe is now a much more resilient business  
and well positioned for profitable growth.
s aad Hammad 
Chief Executive Officer 
“We have returned to growth 
and made a profit following 
losses in every year since 
f lybe’s stock exchange 
flotation in 2010.” f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16  05
Strategic report
1.4% decrease in passenger revenue per seat. Passenger 
demand is now slowly recovering. In the aftermath of 
Paris, we also maintained and sharpened our unit cost 
reduction focus. On a full-year basis, cost per seat, 
excluding fuel, was reduced by 2.3%, and including  
fuel by 4.2%. 
During the year, we maintained our record of 
operational excellence, being named in January 2016 
by OAG as among the top 20 airlines worldwide for 
punctuality in 2015. 85.4% of our flights over the 
past 12 months arrived within 15 minutes of their 
scheduled arrival time. We also continued to improve 
our schedule quality through frequency additions on 
47 existing routes. This delivered enhanced appeal to 
business travellers (c50% of our total customer base) 
who are time-sensitive and place a significant premium 
on convenience. Our customer satisfaction levels 
increased by 3 percentage points to 58% (top two box 
score: completely satisfied, very satisfied). In January 
2016, Flybe was named Best Short-Haul Airline at the 
2016 Business Travel Awards, beating, among others, 
easyJet and British Airways.
On the commercial front, we signed a landmark 
codeshare agreement with Virgin Atlantic involving 
14 Flybe routes connecting onto 20 Virgin routes 
(50% of their total) from the UK to the US and the 
Caribbean at Manchester, Glasgow and Gatwick. 
We also signed a new franchising agreement with Blue 
Islands which will operate flights to and from Jersey 
and Guernsey airports with effect from Summer 2016 
in Flybe branded aircraft. In October 2015 we also 
successfully launched a new White Label solution for 
SAS, Scandinavia’s largest carrier, flying regional routes 
in their livery out of Stockholm Arlanda. This operation 
is anticipated to grow to five aircraft in 2016/17.
In February 2016 we took ownership of three Q400 
aircraft, previously on operating leases, for a cash 
consideration of £24.4m in line with our stated strategy 
of rebalancing the aircraft fleet away from reliance 
on operating leases and towards outright ownership, 
which brings the associated margin uplift. We took out 
debt against these aircraft in May 2016, post year end.
We also delivered a strong year-end cash position  
with total cash of £171.4m and net funds of £62.2m  
at 31st March 2016.
People
We have worked hard to engage our people and 
embed our Purple values during our turnaround.  
This year’s employee satisfaction survey demonstrates 
the improvements made with an increase in our overall 
employee engagement score of 8 percentage points to 
63%. I would like to thank all Flybe employees for their 
hard work, passion and commitment. 
Public affairs
During the year, we continued to lobby the UK 
government on a number of fronts:
> > to allow Flybe to operate scheduled services into 
Northolt airport to provide much-needed regional 
connectivity into the capital until new runway capacity 
is built in the south-east of England in 15 to 20 years;
> > to reform, if not abolish, Air Passenger Duty as this  
is a discriminatory tax on regional travel on a per 
mile basis compared to international travel; and 
> > to drive, at EU level, reform of EU Regulation 
261/2004 on passenger rights which similarly 
discriminates against regional airline operators.  
The payment in the event of three-hour controllable 
delays under EU 261 is three times Flybe’s average 
ticket price; which we feel is disproportionate 
relative to Flybe’s principal competitors, the rail, 
road and ferry operators.
Flybe joined the European Regions Airline Association 
(ERA) last year to lobby the European Commission, 
Parliament and member states to promote the interests 
of regional aviation. One of ERA’s key priorities is the 
revision of EU261. ERA has 52 regional airline members 
across the EU.
strategy and outlook
Going into the third and final year of our transformation, 
our plan remains to establish Flybe as a world-class 
regional airline, occupying a distinctive niche in European 
aviation. There is a need for relatively short flights (up to 
around 90 minutes) from regional airports. Many of these 
routes are too short (less than 400 nautical miles) or too 
thin (i.e. they have too few passengers) for the standard 
short-haul jet aircraft format, such as an Airbus A320 
or Boeing B737, to operate profitably or with sufficient 
daily frequency. Furthermore, some of these routes use 
runways that are also too short for the effective operation 
of these aircraft. This makes such routes less attractive 
to a flag-carrying or low-cost airline, but means they are 
well suited to our preferred turboprop Q400 aircraft and 
our fleet of small regional jets.
85.4% 
o n-time performance 
(2014/15: 84.5%) 
£623.8m 
total revenue 
(2014/15: £574.1m)  06 f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16
Chief Executive Officer’s statement 
continued
Flybe’s strategy will therefore remain focused on 
delivering unrivalled regional connectivity with high 
frequency on low-volume, short-hop routes which 
mainstream airlines (be they low-cost carriers or national 
flag carriers) are unable to serve effectively or profitably. 
Flybe will also continue to promote its ‘one stop 
service to the world’ connecting regional customers 
to all continents with long-haul codeshare partners at 
key international hubs such as Manchester, Paris and 
Dublin. We currently have nine codeshare partners 
which include Virgin Atlantic, Cathay Pacific, Emirates, 
Aer Lingus and Air France. 
Flybe currently connects Britain – one out of every 
two domestic flights in the UK is a Flybe flight. Our 
ambition is to connect Europe. A third of our seat 
capacity is already on UK to Europe routes and this 
coming year will see us increase that proportion to 
more than 40% as we cautiously build up our European 
density. In August we start our first intra-European 
flights flying from Hannover to both Milan and Lyon.
We expect double-digit seat capacity growth during 
2016/17. 40% of this relates to E195 capacity deployed in 
airport partnership deals which provide cost mitigation, 
and the other 60% on routes with additional frequency 
requirements or on new low-volume, short-hop routes 
which strictly adhere to Flybe’s business model.
summary
This year, Flybe returned to growth and made an 
adjusted profit before tax for the first time since the 
Company’s flotation in 2010, concluding the second 
full year of our three-year turnaround and setting down 
strong foundations for the future. We have made great 
progress in building a sustainable, scalable, world-class 
regional European airline.
We are well advanced in our transformation. 
s aad Hammad 
Chief Executive Officer 
8th June 2016
Flybe’s four chapter turnaround
 1
 
t urnaround Chapter 1: r estructuring
Chapter 1 focused on securing the survival of the 
business and comprised ‘Immediate Actions’ to 
maximise internal cash generation, double the 
cost reduction previously undertaken, reconfigure 
the network, fleet and organisation, improve 
commercialisation and rebuild stakeholder confidence. 
 2
 
t urnaround Chapter 2: r ebirth of f lybe
On the back of the successful delivery of Chapter 1, 
we entered Chapter 2 in March 2014. This involved a 
strengthening of our balance sheet through a £150m 
net capital raise and a brand relaunch. This included 
a new customer promise: ‘The fastest way from A to 
Flybe’ along with the introduction of purple as our new 
brand colour and a new code of conduct designed to 
maximise individual, team and business performance.
 3
  
t urnaround Chapter 3: r esolving legacy issues 
and laying foundations for profitable growth
With the business restructured, refinanced and 
relaunched, we entered Chapter 3 in early 2015.  
This focused on establishing growth platforms while 
addressing the Company’s key legacy issues. By the 
end of 2015, Chapter 3 was completed. All key legacy 
issues were tackled and c£750m of liabilities eliminated. 
The resolution of legacy issues comprised completion 
of our cost restructuring with £74m gross savings 
delivered over two years, £3m above the original 
commitment; securing Bombardier’s agreement to fund 
the upgrading of our Q400 fleet with 27 modifications 
designed to improve technical reliability; negotiating 
away a firm order for E175 aircraft (c$892m obligation 
removed) at no cost to Flybe; exit from the loss-making 
Flybe Finland joint venture (€125m potential liability 
eliminated) at no cash cost to Flybe; and resolution 
of our surplus E195 jet aircraft (reducing the financial 
burden to c£40m to the end of the aircraft leases). 
During Chapter 3, we also established future growth 
platforms: growth in UK capacity coupled with 
improved commercial and operational execution 
enabled us to drive growth in passenger volumes and 
revenue over five consecutive quarters; four new bases 
and 45 new routes were launched; five new codeshares 
were signed and launched (Cathay Pacific, Finnair, 
Emirates, Aer Lingus, Virgin Atlantic), more than 
doubling the number to nine; and a number of new 
commercial partnerships were signed and launched 
including with Airbus Military, through which Flybe 
provides airframe-related maintenance at Brize Norton 
for the RAF’s new fleet of A400M Atlas airlifters, and 
with SAS, for whom Flybe provides a White Label 
operation in Stockholm, flying regional routes on  
their behalf and in their brand livery.
 4
 
t urnaround Chapter 4: Profitable growth
With the completion of Chapters 1-3, Flybe entered 
Chapter 4 at the turn of the year. We achieved 
profitability in 2015/16 and are now looking forward to 
an exciting part of Flybe’s journey to become Europe’s 
best regional airline, focused on disciplined growth into 
the continent while consolidating our presence in the UK. f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16  07
Strategic report
Chapter 1
r estructuring
> > Focus on additional 
cost reduction and cash 
generation measures, 
strengthening our 
commercial capability 
and driving revenue 
growth
Chapter 3
l egacy issues  
resolved and  
foundations for growth
l egacy issues 
> > Exited Embraer E175 deal
> > Secured future Q400 fleet
> > Exited Finland joint venture
> > Found solutions for 14 E195s
f oundations for the future
> > New bases
> > New routes
> > Record load factors
> > SAS White Label deal
> > A400M maintenance deal
Profitable growth
> > Enhance product quality through frequency
> > Energise organisation to improve route profitability
> > Build European density
With the completion of Chapters 1-3, Flybe 
entered Chapter 4 at the turn of the year. We 
achieved profitability in 2015/16 and are now 
looking forward to an exciting part of Flybe’s 
journey to become Europe’s best regional 
airline, focused on disciplined growth into the 
continent while consolidating our presence in 
the UK.
Chapter 2
r ebirth of flybe
> > Raised £150m net 
proceeds on 12th March 
2014
> > Relaunched our brand  
in April 2014
> > The purple Flybe – new, 
invigorated culture and 
ethos
> > £22.5m restricted cash 
released
Chapter 4
scale cautiously into  
europe while consolidating  
uK position
