 08 FOCUSRITE PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT | PHIL DUDDERIDGE
“ Overall it has been a real year of progress and  
I am delighted that as a result of all our employees’ 
hard work, we were the proud winners of the 
Queen’s Award for Enterprise for International Trade.”
An excellent second year 
of trading as a plc
Chairman’s Statement
Phil Dudderidge, Executive Chairman
Focusrite has had an excellent second 
year of trading as a public company 
and I am very pleased to report on 
the Company’s performance and 
progress over the last 12 months.
We have continued to grow revenue and 
correspondingly our profits as we deliver 
on our strategic goals. The year-on-year 
performance has been strong, showing a 
significant increase in revenue of 13.1% to 
£54.3 million. There have been a number 
of drivers for this increase including 
improving market share globally, a strong 
performance from new and existing 
products, and a number of new sales, 
marketing and distribution initiatives. FOCUSRITE PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 09
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For more information visit
focusriteplc.com
Given the cash-generative characteristics 
of the business and the strength of our 
balance sheet, the Board has decided to 
recommended a final dividend of 1.3 pence 
per share (FY15 final dividend 1.2 pence), 
giving a total of 1.95 pence per share for the 
year (FY15: 1.8 pence). The final dividend 
is subject to shareholder approval, which is 
being sought at Focusrite’s Annual General 
Meeting (‘AGM’) to be held in January 2017.
Importantly, all our achievements 
represent the collective efforts of an 
outstanding workforce. With the majority 
of our employees being active musicians 
there is a real enthusiasm for what we 
do and a wealth of inherent expertise.
Approximately a third of our people are 
engaged in product development and I am 
very proud of their world-class capabilities. 
Our marketing and sales staff are exemplars 
in the global market we inhabit, employing 
state-of-the-art digital marketing techniques 
to ensure that the Focusrite and Novation 
brands are recognised as the ‘Best Choice 
at Every Price Point’, a company ambition 
that we are continually striving to achieve.
In this regard, FY16 produced a number 
of significant product achievements, 
most notably the complete renewal of 
our Focusrite Scarlett audio interface 
range, the global leader in the sub-$500 
product category. This complete design 
revision of Scarlett improves the audio 
performance, industrial design and control 
software, and as a result will continue to 
defend and improve our market share in 
a competitive market. Scarlett Gen.2 is 
also bundled free with ‘Avid Pro Tools | 
First’ recording software for the first time. 
This is a ringing endorsement of Focusrite 
as the perfect partner for Pro Tools. 
Additionally we remain active across all 
price points in the professional music 
recording market, addressing identified 
market requirements. The new Focusrite 
Clarett and Red ranges ($500-$4,000) 
were successfully launched this year, as 
were second generation RedNet products, 
targeted at high-calibre institutional 
customers such as Microsoft and Disney, 
as well as broadcasters and universities.
Progress at Novation, our Company’s 
music creation brand, was predominantly 
driven by our innovative Circuit product. 
Launched in the first half of FY16, Circuit 
is a new concept musical instrument, which 
actually inspires and helps in the creation 
of electronic music. Regular software 
enhancements are meeting customer 
aspiration and Circuit is becoming a 
considerable success in this new category.
During FY16, we have also been active on 
the sales, distribution and marketing side 
of the business and recently established 
a marketing and sales subsidiary in 
the Asia Pacific region to represent 
our brands in these territories, working 
without third-party distributors. This region 
continues to show substantial growth.
In Europe we appointed a new distributor 
for France and Benelux. Algam is the 
market-leading distributor of musical 
instruments and professional audio 
products in these geographies and 
this move has resulted in a valuable 
increase in sales in these territories.
Our largest market remains the USA and 
six years ago we established Focusrite 
Novation Inc. as a marketing subsidiary 
to promote and support our brands 
alongside our third-party distributor. 
This continues to prove a successful 
business model with sales into the retail 
channel continuing to increase in FY16.
We acknowledge our excellent relationships 
with all our authorised retailers, distributors 
and resellers in the USA and across the 
rest of the world and we thank them for 
their continued custom and support.
Overall it has been a real year of progress 
and I am delighted that as a result of all our 
employees’ hard work, we were the proud 
winners of the Queen’s Award for Enterprise 
for International Trade and, for the fifth year 
running, were included in the Sunday Times 
100 Best Small Companies to Work For.
Finally, I would also like to take this 
opportunity to express my appreciation 
to retiring Chief Executive Officer, Dave 
Froker. He has been a valuable and 
integral member of the Focusrite team 
for several years and has made a terrific 
contribution to our success. We wish him 
every happiness in his retirement back 
home in the USA. The process for finding 
a successor to Dave Froker continues and 
is well advanced. Furthermore, I would also 
like to acknowledge the entire executive 
team for their tireless commitment to 
growing the business and, most importantly, 
to ‘always making things happen’!
As we look forward to the next financial year, 
we will be focused on the same mantra!
Phil Dudderidge
Executive Chairman
22 November 2016
