 02 f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16
frequencies on existing routes, new routes and 
new bases, as well as new commercial partnerships 
including a White Label agreement with SAS in 
Sweden. The benefit is now shown clearly in these 
results, with the Group achieving profitability.
The tragic events in Paris in November 2015 and 
Brussels in March 2016 caused customers to think 
hard about whether they had to travel in the UK and 
north-western Europe. Since this is our entire ambit 
of operations, and with our late-booking business 
market positioning, the effect on Flybe was immediate 
and far-reaching. However, Flybe is now a more agile 
business and management responded by significantly 
reducing capacity and accelerating their cost reduction 
initiatives; while electing to hold yields and accept 
lower load factors. The financial impact on Flybe could 
have been significant, but decisive management action 
reduced the net impact so that our full-year profit 
forecasts were not altered. 
Low spot oil prices are beginning to reduce our costs 
as forward hedges on fuel unwind. This is beneficial 
to the business. However, all airlines, as well as our 
principal competitors, the road, rail and ferry operators, 
have benefited from the lower oil and energy prices.  
As a result, much of the fuel price saving is actually 
passed on to the consumer through lower fares.
Over the past 12 months Flybe has actively engaged 
the UK government and the EU to support regional 
aviation more effectively by providing a level playing 
field versus international air travel and other modes 
of transport. While Flybe is in favour of passenger 
rights, we have argued that penalties for excessive 
flight delays within an airline’s control need to be 
proportionate to the value of the ticket price, and not, 
as is the case currently for regional airlines, at often 
three times the average price! No such punitive regime 
exists for long-haul airlines nor indeed for rail, road  
and ferry operators.
simon l affin
Chairman
a year of strong progress 
and achievement
Our mission is to be Europe’s leading regional airline, 
acting responsibly and generating value for all our 
stakeholders.
Chairman’s statement 
introduction
This has been the second full year of our turnaround, 
and we have made significant progress. In the first 
year of the turnaround, we restructured the business, 
completed a successful capital raise and relaunched 
the Flybe brand. We resolved a number of outstanding 
fleet issues, including an exit from binding new  
aircraft orders, and also divested the unprofitable  
and time-consuming joint venture in Finland. During 
this second year we resolved our final key legacy  
issue by redeploying our E195 aircraft. We also grew 
revenue and delivered a profit despite significant 
market headwinds.
The clearance of our key legacy issues has freed 
management to focus on building a growing and 
sustainable regional airline. The team has established 
a number of growth platforms including additional  f lybe group plc Annual report and Accounts 2015/16  03
Strategic report
The UK government’s Air Passenger Duty (APD) is also 
levied disproportionately on regional flights. A typical 
domestic flight can be charged up to 19 times the tax 
per mile of a long-haul one. This is doubled when a 
return international flight suffers this charge once, but 
a domestic one is taxed twice as APD is a UK departure 
tax. In the run-up to the last general election, the 
government took the political decision to reduce long-
haul APD rates by £1 billion, while, without a glimmer 
of shame, informing Flybe that it could not afford to 
reduce short-haul rates.
We ask that APD should be more reflective either of 
the distances actually travelled or the price of the 
ticket, and that APD is levied more equitably. Indeed 
we have proposed to the Chancellor to lower the levy 
at regional airports by 50% in line with what is being 
planned in Scotland, funding it through an increase at 
the large, slot-constrained airports in London such as 
Heathrow and Gatwick. This would give it some logic, 
akin to an airport congestion charge.
The government continues to highlight an aspiration 
for a Northern Powerhouse, but ignores the importance 
of regional aviation connectivity. The government-
funded £43 billion HS2 will not be part of this in the 
foreseeable future, as it will not reach Manchester for 
the next 17 years. Meanwhile, right now, Flybe operates 
41 flights from Manchester and 46 from Birmingham 
every day and those two million passengers a year 
receive no government subsidy and instead suffer  
an arbitrary tax burden. 
The UK has 22 public service obligation (i.e. publicly 
underwritten) routes. By contrast, France has 45. 
Most of the UK routes are in Scotland, funded by the 
Scottish government. Flybe asks that the government 
takes a more strategic view on UK regional aviation 
and recognises that some communities need support 
to maintain fast physical connectivity to the main 
conurbations, especially London. 
While the decision on the new south-east airport 
capacity continues to be delayed, Flybe proposed 
that it be allowed to operate scheduled services into 
Northolt airport. This would give some of the UK 
connectivity benefits of a new south-east runway with 
none of the environmental disadvantages in the interim 
until the new capacity is built. Flybe would contribute 
c£7m more annually to the government in landing fees 
and APD. It would replace the current noisy private 
executive jets that benefit only a few with our quieter 
efficient turboprops benefiting 300,000 passengers per 
annum. It would actually reduce noise for local residents. 
However, the Ministry of Defence decided perversely 
that it could not even consider our proposal until the 
Heathrow decision had been taken, ignoring the fact that 
our suggestion is an interim one only, and so completely 
irrelevant to the final decision. I suspect that this ended 
up in the ‘all too difficult’ bin of political decision-making.
Board 
David Kappler became Chairman of the Audit 
Committee following Charlie Scott’s retirement after 
the AGM in July 2015. We are also pleased to welcome 
Kate Ledger as our new Company Secretary and 
General Counsel. She brings with her a wealth of legal 
and aviation experience. 
Corporate governance
In line with the standards of best practice and 
regulations, we have made a separate statement  
on page 45.
r esults
This year sees Flybe achieve profitability with an 
adjusted profit before tax of £5.5m, excluding US 
dollar loan revaluation losses of £(2.8)m. There were 
no adjustments this year for either discontinued 
operations or non-recurring items following the 
resolution of our final legacy issue. 
general outlook
The business is now in good shape. With key legacy 
issues behind us, we have made a profit this year. 
This represents an important milestone in the turnaround 
of Flybe. We want to create a business that delivers 
profitable growth underpinned by a robust financial 
foundation. Total revenue grew by 8.7%, and we 
finished the year with £62.2m net funds and £171.4m 
total cash.
The general economic conditions remain difficult.  
We are, as ever, exposed to exogenous events that 
can disrupt regional air travel. Our approach will be to 
continue to drive costs lower, improve the profitability 
of our route network and expand cautiously. 
Flybe plays a vital role in UK regional connectivity. 
The Board believes that our differentiated competitive 
positioning, reduced cost base, strong balance sheet 
and disciplined growth strategy will enable us to 
deliver continued progress in the current year and 
position us well to drive sustainable profitable growth 
in the future.
simon l affin
Chairman
8th June 2016
