 12 FOCUSRITE PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT | DAVE FROKER
A positive year and well 
positioned for growth 
Chief Executive’s Statement
“ Focusrite has been quoted 
on the AIM market now for 
almost two years and during 
that time we have gone from 
strength to strength. We 
continue to hit our growth 
benchmarks and perform 
well both operationally 
and financially.”
Dave Froker, Chief Executive Officer
Financial performance
Having clearly outlined to investors our 
strategy for growth, which focuses on 
the four key areas of Innovate, Disrupt, 
Make Easy and Expand, we have this year 
shown that the wider operational team has 
the capability to execute that strategy.
As a result, we have grown Group revenues 
by 13.1% to £54.3 million (FY15: £48.0 
million). Following last year’s Novation 
product introductions and growth, the 
real engine for growth this year has 
been the Focusrite products, with sales 
increasing by 20.4% from £31.2 million 
to £37.6 million. Profitability also grew 
with adjusted EBITDA up by 10.2% to 
£10.2 million (FY15: £9.3 million).
Regionally, the USA grew by 15.6% 
with further growth in our Scarlett 
range, boosted by the launch of the 2nd 
generation, and strong uptake of our 
Clarett and Red products in the second 
half. Europe grew by 5.2%, despite Brexit 
and currency movements and the Rest 
of World region grew by 28.1%, notably 
in Asia where our Novation products, in 
particular, have proved very popular.
The market
Pleasingly, the overall music equipment 
market still continues to grow and the 
Company grew market share despite 
facing some macroeconomic headwinds.
The most notable of these was the UK’s 
Brexit vote in June 2016 and the resulting 
significant currency exchange rate volatility 
both before and after the result. It is too 
early to know if there will be any impact 
on underlying consumer demand for 
our products as a result of Brexit, but to 
date we have seen no evidence of this.
The USA still has a relatively healthy 
economy, and overall seems in better shape 
than the Eurozone and Latin America. 
Asia continues to grow faster than the rest 
of the world despite China’s slowdown, 
although it is currently a small part of our 
business, but we hope to capitalise more 
on this region of the world now we have 
a dedicated presence in Hong Kong.
Our growth this year was driven by new 
product releases which were supported by 
positive industry and consumer acceptance. 
The Group continues to penetrate new 
market segments and price points with best 
in class, user-friendly products. Customer 
and sales channel satisfaction feedback 
remains strong on new and existing 
products and continued high levels of end-
user satisfaction are illustrated by our top 
net promotor scores for individual products.
Growth strategy
Our strategy of innovation and expansion 
continues to work and we are leading 
the market with our cutting edge 
technology and design, which continues 
to attract industry recognition. We 
remain committed to making music 
easier to make for professionals and 
hobbyists and our success is driven by 
our entrepreneurial and pioneering team, 
many of whom are themselves musicians. FOCUSRITE PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For more information visit
focusriteplc.com
Products
During the year we introduced 16 new 
products across our business segments. 
Our major product launches and growth 
drivers this year have been within the 
Focusrite business segment, which 
accounts for 69.2% of our overall turnover. 
All new products were delivered on 
schedule and are gaining market share. 
The feedback via our sales channels and 
from end customers has been positive.
Within Focusrite our major initiative this 
year was the launch of the new generation 
of Scarlett, an improved version of the 
world’s number one audio interface. The 
new and upgraded Scarlett range is 
targeted widely, from aspiring musicians 
recording at home (a large market) through 
to professional producers and sound 
engineers. This second generation of 
Scarlett has been well received by our sales 
channels and consumers and has received 
enthusiastic industry media reviews.
Alongside this, we also entered the lucrative 
adjacent price segments with new Clarett 
and Red interfaces. The Clarett Thunderbolt 
line is priced between $500 and $1,300 
and has sold well since its introduction. The 
Red series offers unequalled sound quality, 
speed and ease of use for professional 
recording engineers and producers, and 
has been widely acclaimed in the trade 
media. It started shipping in April and 
sales are now starting to build up nicely.
We also continue to open up new market 
segments with our RedNet products, which 
enable numerous high-quality audio signals 
to be distributed via ‘Audio over IP’ based 
technology, utilising common off-the-
shelf networking infrastructure. Delivered 
in real time across a network, these 
products are targeted at the live sound and 
broadcast business-to-business markets.
In the previous financial year we introduced 
a large number of new Novation products 
and so this year has been a quieter year 
for this brand as expected. We have 
executed our new strategy for this market 
segment by continuously upgrading our 
innovative Circuit groove box with new 
software. We continue to strive to make 
music easier to make and in this regard 
we are particularly pleased with the 
performance and market acceptance of 
Circuit, across all our sales channels.
As announced at the time of the interim 
results, we launched Blocs Wave, the 
second iOS app from our London based 
software team. The app has been designed 
for everybody to use, whether a professional 
or beginner, and is highly intuitive. Blocs 
Wave makes it easier for musicians to 
create their own sounds and songs from 
scratch on any iOS smartphone or tablet. 
With initial support from Apple, downloads 
have been strong with over 47,000 to date. 
Finally, although a small part of our overall 
product mix, we continue to distribute 
third-party products and during the year, 
we agreed a new distribution deal for 
sE Electronics microphones in the UK.
New initiatives
We are always looking at ways to 
expand our sales channels, improve 
our distribution and capture margin.
During the year we opened an office 
in Hong Kong as mentioned above. This 
will give us a better understanding of 
our customers and help to maintain close 
links with our contract manufacturers 
in China. Ultimately, we plan to increase 
the proportion of the Group’s revenue 
coming from Asia.
Additionally, we launched Focusrite’s 
first web-store in the UK. We have now 
expanded this to the USA and some 
European territories and although still in its 
infancy we see the potential for creating 
a direct sales channel for our products. 
In addition, where customers wish to try 
our products prior to buying, we will direct 
them to the dealers that sell our products, 
providing a further benefit to those dealers.
On the logistics side of the business, we 
successfully transitioned our business to 
Kuehne + Nagel to achieve more highly 
integrated supply chain and delivery 
management. This is expected to impact 
our logistics positively and further improve 
the efficiency of our operations.
Our people
Managed by a skilled operations board 
with combined music industry experience 
in excess of 100 years and with an 
average Focusrite service of over 12 years 
each, we can truly demonstrate strength 
and depth in our management team.
Supporting them we have an energetic, 
committed and creative young workforce 
who develop, market and sell our products. 
A very high proportion of our workforce 
are users of our products, 62% are 35 
years of age or below and 87% own 
shares or stock options in Focusrite 
Plc. It has been my great pleasure and 
privilege to help guide and lead them 
while I have been Chief Executive.
Current trading and outlook
Pleasingly, our positive trading momentum 
has continued in the period since the 
year end. Our strategy is paying off as 
we grow our market share, revenue and 
profits. We’ve energetically introduced new 
innovative products which continue to be 
well received by our customers. We are 
managing our way through macroeconomic 
turbulence and the expansion of our 
channels to market is driving opportunities 
for growth. We look ahead with confidence.
This will be my last report as Chief 
Executive of Focusrite, as I have announced 
my retirement and intention to return to the 
USA. I would like to thank all of my Board 
colleagues, as well as all of our employees, 
who are truly world-class colleagues, for 
their support and dedication. I remain 
a shareholder in the business and am 
confident that the Company can achieve 
even greater things over the longer term.
Dave Froker
Chief Executive Officer
22 November 2016
