 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
overview
The Group’s principal activity is the global provision of 
trading, risk management and settlement solutions to 
the metals and commodities sectors, through the delivery 
of customer focused software and services. The Group 
addresses the requirements of the metals markets, both 
base and precious, and the soft commodities markets.
I am pleased to provide a brief summary of the financial 
and operational highlights for 2008 and to provide an 
outlook for 2009.
financial Highlights
• Group revenues increased by 8% to £6.2 million (2007: 
£5.7 million), which included £2.2 million of recurring 
maintenance revenues (2007: £1.6 million). 
• Operating profit increased by 117% to £0.7million (2007: 
£0.3 million). Profit before taxation increased by 63% to 
£1.0 million (2007: £0.6 million), demonstrating tangible 
success of the recent reorganisation programme and 
investment in building the Group’s sales teams.
• Basic earnings per share have increased by 50% to 2.73 
pence (2007: 1.82 pence). On a fully diluted basis this 
equates to an increase of 52% to 2.49 pence (2007: 1.64 
pence). 
• Cash resources at the end of the year were £7.8 million, 
an increase of £1.6 million on last year’s £6.0 million, 
contributing to a very strong balance sheet. 
• 36% growth in recurring maintenance revenues, now 
comprising 35% of total revenues. 
•  Four new Trinity clients have gone live.
operational Highlights
2008 has seen a number of successful commercial 
activities:
• Nine significant new Trinity licence deals were signed in 
2008, compared to three in 2007.
• Four new Trinity clients have gone live.
The Group reorganised its internal resources at the end of 
2007 in order to focus its efforts aggressively towards sales 
order and revenue generation. The organisational changes 
have been successfully implemented, as demonstrated in 
the operational and financial highlights above. The Group 
is also encouraged to see a more advanced pipeline 
which, in monetary terms, has more than doubled in 
the last twelve months. The Group is well positioned to 
continue to accelerate growth in its order book and now 
has six quota carrying account managers, compared to 
two that were in place prior to the reorganisation. The 
Group has also successfully established a US-based service 
team in 2008 and commenced its expansion into Asia in 
January 2009.
The Group completed the acquisition of Commodities 
Software (UK) Limited (”Comsoft”) in January 2009, 
providing an attractive opportunity to help accelerate 
further growth.
outlook
The metals and commodities markets have been the 
subject to much attention during 2008 given the dramatic 
price increases in recent years and subsequent reductions in 
recent months. There continue to be more entrants to the 
London Metal Exchange (“LME”), which is a core market 
for the Group. Overall, the increase in activity in this area 
still appears to be strong for the coming years, particularly 
relative to other asset classes and in consideration of 
the general global credit crunch. Although the Board is 
mindful of potential delays in clients’ decision making in 
relation to new licence deals, it believes that the Group is 
well positioned in this marketplace.
The Group expects to continue to build its sales opportunity 
pipeline and to translate this into the execution of new 
licence contracts. In addition, the Group anticipates 
completing a number of implementations in 2009 in 
relation to the licence contracts secured in 2008. The 
Board therefore has good visibility of revenues in the first 
half of 2009 visibility of revenues in the first half of 2009.
People
I would like to thank all of our employees for their efforts 
during the past busy year in delivering this successful 
growth. Their continued commitment, loyalty and support 
will be vital to maintain the momentum of this progress. 
Conclusion
The Board continues to see a substantial and attractive 
market opportunity, in spite of the general economic 
conditions. The Group has a world leading position 
within the metals and mining sector and is well placed to 
continue to build on this. It has a strong product offering 
addressing the requirement to manage trading risk in the 
metals and mining sectors, a solid balance sheet and has 
built a quality customer base and excellent reputation 
over the years. 
The Group has a clear strategy which is being executed, 
as summarised in the Chief Executive’s Review. The 
year has demonstrated tangible success following the 
reorganisation initiatives in 2007 and the investment in 
routes to market. The Board believes that the Group is 
well placed to aggressively capitalise on this excellent 
opportunity and build on the growth achieved in 
2008. In addition, the Group will continue to look for 
further opportunities to use its strong balance sheet to 
enhance its product and customer base through selective 
acquisitions.
I look forward to reporting further positive progress.
Paul fullagar
Chairman
10 March 2009
Brady plc Consolidated Financial Statements 3
“With Brady’s 
world leading 
position within 
the metals 
and mining 
sector and a 
strong product 
offering 
addressing 
trading 
and risk 
management 
within the 
metals and 
mining sectors, 
the Board 
believes 
Brady is well 
positioned in 
the current 
climate to 
build its sales 
opportunities.”
