 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
our Markets
The Group is focused on the metals, both base and precious, 
and the soft commodities markets. In each area we believe that 
the trading conditions remain buoyant and anticipate that they 
should remain so for the foreseeable future. The credit crunch 
and deterioration in the equity markets has emphasised the 
need for effective risk management solutions and controls.
Furthermore, we have seen an increase in electronic trading, 
especially in the LME, which has seen the growth in LME 
Select transactions, which is driving the need for new systems. 
The introduction of the new LME SMART settlement system in 
2009 is also providing a catalyst for change.
Overall, we expect that the demand in our markets should 
remain positive, although it should be recognised that the 
recession will likely cause general delays in the decision-making 
processes in some organisations.
our strategy
The Group’ s target markets are producers and fabricators, trading 
companies, and banks, brokers and hedge funds. For metals, our 
solutions offer coverage across the entire industry, from metal 
concentrates, through refined metals trading, to the most complex 
financial derivatives. For soft commodities, our solutions can 
process the full range of financially settled instruments, including 
complex OTC structures prevalent in that industry, to allow full 
analysis of trading risk.
Approximately 50% of our revenues derive from Europe, 
40% from North America and the remainder from Asia. The 
Group has strengthened its presence in continental Europe 
and the Americas during 2008, including establishing a service 
organisation in North America. As previously indicated, the 
Group has more recently, in January 2009, established local 
operations in Asia in order to better support strategically 
important Asian and global clients.
Approximately 35% of our revenue derives from producers and 
fabricators, 30% from trading companies and 35% from banks 
and brokers. These markets are largely addressed by direct 
selling, but we will be looking to further develop relationships 
with partners, integrators and value added resellers (VARs) in 
2009.
The Group’s solutions provide support for traders, operations, 
settlements, risk and compliance in an integrated environment. 
This is critically important to ensure a greater control of clients’ 
business, lowering cost of ownership and minimising the 
possibilities of operational risk. 
Given the strength of its balance sheet, the Group continues to 
work with our advisors in driving and executing our acquisition 
strategy. We anticipate that the continuing turbulence in 
the credit markets and recessionary climate should favour 
companies such as Brady who are well placed to identify and 
execute acquisitions at valuations very attractive to them.
our operations
organisation
Following the reorganisation in late 2007, the team has 
been  significantly strengthened and focused in order to take 
advantage of the positive trading conditions. There are now 
six quota carrying sales executives, compared to two prior to 
the reorganisation, and there are also plans to hire at least one 
further sales executive in 2009.
The Group has a clear focus on North 
America, Europe, and now Asia for 
both sales and services, providing higher 
quality services to our clients in their 
own time zones.
The Group’s overall capability has also been augmented by the 
introduction of enhanced product management processes and 
much tighter co-ordination between our development centres.
Marketing
Progress continues to be made in strengthening the Brady 
brand, including significantly more focus applied to marketing 
our products as well as press and analyst briefings, advertising, 
trade shows, marketing literature and client testimonials. This 
is continuing to translate into more incoming requests for 
information which we anticipate will ultimately create more 
leads in 2009.
sales
The refinements that we have made to the value proposition 
and efforts in implementing targeted sales campaigns have 
shown tangible results in 2008, having led to nine significant 
new licence sales in 2008, all with leading organisations. This 
will be further enhanced by direct marketing sales campaigns 
in 2009.
We also plan to further expand our sales reach by working with 
third-party integrators and technology partners.
Products
In a busy year for product development, our product portfolio has 
continued to evolve in line with the needs of our customers.
For banks, brokers and traders there have been a number 
of significant developments to match the functionality of 
our applications with the latest process and regulatory 
changes brought in by the London Metal Exchange, such as 
management of steel contracts, LME matching and an LME 
SMART interface to enable direct links to other regulatory and 
exchange organisations. We will continue to strengthen our 
partnership with the LME as a key part of our strategy.
“t his has been an exciting year for Brady. since we 
announced our new growth strategy we have made great 
strides in growing the company”
Brady plc Consolidated Financial Statements 4 We are witnessing substantial growth in the trading of metal 
concentrates across the globe. For producers, the Group has 
completed the development of a new Concentrates module, 
which means that our solutions can now be used to man-
age both refined and unrefined material. This was further 
augmented in 2008 with the addition of Assaying, Tolling and 
Transportation functionality to further extend the Group’s cov-
erage in this market sector. The depth of functionality and our 
customer base was further enhanced following the acquisition 
of Comsoft in January 2009, as noted below.
We see the capture and effective analysis of trading risk as a 
critical component in the volatile and fast-moving commodities 
markets that we service:
•  the Group’s Value-at-Risk (“VaR”) module targets the 
continued acceptance within the industry of VaR models 
to report enterprise risks;
•  the Group’s P&L Attribution module provides extensive 
analysis of P&L movements relative to changes in market 
data, minimising operation down-time; and
•  the recently released Retrospective functionality offers a 
powerful forensic analysis tool through the reconstruction 
of any position back in time.
The message hub has also been completed and this lays the 
foundation for high performance messaging between our own 
components and third party applications, using FIX protocol. 
This is a key component of the Group’s evolution to a service-
orientated architecture and provides immediate benefits of 
increased scalability, lower cost of ownership and reduced 
operational risk through accurate high-performance data 
interfaces, opening the Group’s solutions to order management 
and exchange connectivity.
From a technology perspective, the Group anticipates staying at 
the forefront of Microsoft and Oracle technology by deepening 
its use of .NET components and adoption of the Vista operating 
system. Oracle 11g and Oracle Standard will be rolled-out and as 
will the use of Service Orientated Architecture. In addition, the 
Group has continued to work hard on significant performance 
improvements in key functional areas.
services
The Group’s objective remains to be a trusted adviser to all 
its clients, providing them with high quality consulting and 
development services and delivering projects on time and on 
budget. The fact that four new clients have gone live with the 
Group’s solutions in 2008 is further testimony to our team’s 
ability to deliver significant projects around the globe.
The Group remains committed to improving customer 
satisfaction. This involves partnering with our clients at all 
levels, the continuing roll-out of Prince 2 project management 
methodology for implementations, and extending automated 
testing of our solutions. The Group is also initiating further 
accreditation and training programs in 2009 and is working 
diligently on faster issue resolution and better documentation.
Comsoft acquisition
In January 2009, the Group acquired Comsoft, a UK-based 
company providing software for the risk management and 
administration of raw materials or Concentrates for the metals 
market. Comsoft has been operating since 1984 and has 
clients in Europe and North America. The acquisition has a 
compelling strategic and financial rationale, offering the Group 
a greater depth of functionality and expertise in Concentrates, 
particularly aimed at mining and smelting companies and 
trading companies. It broadens the Group’s own Concentrates 
product offering and provides an attractive opportunity to 
accelerate further growth.
In addition, the Group’s expertise in metal trading and risk 
solutions combined with Comsoft’s strength in raw materials 
solutions creates an excellent platform to drive revenue 
synergies. 
our future
While there is currently uncertainty around banks’ trading 
performances, the increased demand in risk management 
solutions and increased automation to drive cost savings 
should, we believe, still lead to further growth during 2009. 
The Group is well positioned to capitalise on this opportunity. 
We are confident that solid foundations have been laid, early 
success in our business plan has been demonstrated, and the 
Group has a strong platform for ongoing growth and success 
in 2009 and beyond.
gavin lavelle
Chief Executive Officer
10 March 2009
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
+63%
“With a highly 
developed 
solution set 
and a fantastic 
team at Brady, 
we have been 
successful 
in signing 
numerous 
new clients, 
many of them 
leaders in their 
respective 
market 
sectors.”
Brady plc Consolidated Financial Statements 5
