 A strong year of financial  
and strategic progress
5.8p
Dividend per share
21 .5p
Earnings per share (pro-forma)
The Board remains 
confident that the business 
is well positioned to take 
advantage of the attractive 
market fundamentals, and 
of its ability to increase 
shareholder value.”
Paul Lester CBE
Chairman
I am pleased to present our first Annual 
Report as a public company, although 
Forterra has a long and successful history.
Forterra has a rich heritage emanating 
from Hanson plc (now part of 
HeidelbergCement AG), and was a 
key player in the consolidation and 
rationalisation of the building products 
sector. The business was successfully 
established as a stand-alone company 
under Lone Star Funds’ ownership before 
being brought to market as a new public 
company in April 2016. T oday, Forterra 
is a UK leader in manufactured masonry 
products, with a unique combination of 
strong market positions in clay bricks 
and concrete blocks. The Group also 
produces a complementary range of 
bespoke building products, the most 
significant being engineered precast 
concrete flooring solutions.
Within our clay brick business, Forterra 
focuses on the efficient manufacture 
of high volume extruded and soft mud 
bricks, primarily for the housing market. 
The business is also the sole manufacturer 
of the iconic Fletton brick sold under the 
London Brick brand. Fletton bricks were 
used in the original construction of nearly a 
quarter of England’ s existing housing stock 
and are today targeted at the residential 
improvement market to match existing 
brickwork. Our concrete block business 
is one of the leading producers of both 
aircrete and aggregate blocks, the former 
being sold under one of the country’ s 
principal aircrete brands of Thermalite.
2
Forterra plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s Statement Health and Safety
Forterra is committed to the highest  
safety standards for all employees,  
sub-contractors and visitors to our 
facilities. We describe later in this report the 
initiatives being taken in this area, including 
Building Safety T ogether . As Chairman, 
I have asked that all Directors conduct 
safety walks at a facility annually in order 
to build awareness and emphasise the 
importance that we place on safety . 
In addition, all senior operational managers 
are required to gain the NEBOSH 
general certification in occupational 
Health and Safety and during the year 
a further 15 managers were awarded 
the qualification. 
The Group’ s ‘Lost Time Injury Frequency 
Rate’ reduced by over 50% from 3.1 
in 2015 to 1.5 in 2016, and the bricks 
business went through the whole year 
without a single lost time incident.
Strategy
The Group primarily supplies products into 
the UK housing industry . After an extended 
period of subdued house building 
activity , the UK has a significant structural 
undersupply of housing. The business 
is well-positioned to take advantage of 
the attractive market fundamentals in 
the short to medium-term by utilising its 
existing, well-invested manufacturing 
facilities, available production capacity 
and inventories. Over the medium-term, 
we have a number of options to drive 
future growth.
The five pillars of Forterra’ s strategy are:
• embed manufacturing excellence 
across our business;
• align capacity and utilisation to 
market conditions;
• maintain cost leadership through 
operational efficiency in all parts of 
the business;
• product and service innovation; and 
• enhance the range of products and 
services offered through both organic 
investment and appropriate bolt-
on acquisitions.
The strategy is discussed in more detail 
on page 20.
Performance
Group revenue of £294.5 million was 1.5% 
ahead of 2015, with a strong end to the 
year offsetting weak merchant demand 
in the first half of the year . The business 
continued to build on its strong position 
with the housebuilders and overall 
brick, aggregate block and concrete 
flooring volumes were ahead of last year . 
Aircrete block volumes were affected by 
production constraints in certain weeks 
arising from availability of raw materials.
Due to the listing on the London Stock 
Exchange’ s Main Market through an Initial 
Public Offering (IPO) in April 2016, coupled 
with a refinancing (which significantly 
reduced indebtedness at the date of 
listing), a true comparison of performance 
with the prior periods is difficult. In order 
to make a comparison more meaningful, 
the profit before exceptionals for 2015 
has been shown on a pro-forma basis 
after adjusting for additional costs relating 
to being a stand-alone plc. The finance 
charge for 2015 and the first half of 
2016 has been calculated assuming that 
the debt structure at IPO was in place 
throughout both periods, and the  
pro-forma profit before tax is calculated  
on this basis. Similarly , the number 
of shares in issue at December 
2016 has been used in calculating 
pro-forma earnings per share for 
comparative periods.
The pro-forma profit before tax and 
exceptional items of £54.3 million for 2016 
increased by £2.0 million compared to last 
year , which was a creditable performance 
in difficult market circumstances. 
The statutory profit before tax (PBT) for 
2016 of £37.1 million compares with 
2015 of £22.2 million. In 2016, this was 
stated after charging exceptional items 
of £8.9 million (2015: £11.6 million) 
relating mainly to setting up the business 
as a stand-alone entity following the 
sale by HeidelbergCement AG and the 
costs associated with listing. The actual 
finance charge for both periods was also 
higher than that used in the pro-forma 
due to the increased net debt and higher 
interest rate in place under the previous 
ownership structure.
Earnings per share (EPS) before 
exceptionals has also been derived on a 
pro-forma basis using the profit before tax 
and exceptional items, effective tax rate 
for each period and the number of shares 
in place at the end of December 2016. 
On this basis, EPS was 4.4% higher than 
2015 at 21.5 pence per share.
The Group continues to generate a strong 
level of free cash flow and net debt at the 
end of December 2016 was £92.3 million, 
representing 1.3 times EBITDA. This  
excellent performance meant that the 
Group exceeded the target set at IPO.
Forterra plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
3
Strategic Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Governance Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 
3.8 pence per share, which, together with 
the interim dividend would make a total of 
5.8 pence for the full year. This represents 
a payout of 41% of post-IPO earnings 
which is slightly ahead of the target set 
for the first year.
The Board intends to follow a progressive 
dividend policy from this base.
Board and corporate governance
Becoming a listed company has meant 
a number of changes to the business 
organisation and processes, the formation 
of the plc Board with strong independent 
Directors being central to these changes.
As Chairman, one of my prime 
responsibilities is developing the 
appropriate corporate governance 
framework and ensuring that there is an 
able and experienced group of Executive 
and Non-Executive Directors to support 
this. I am pleased to have had six such 
Directors bring their experience to the 
Board to date, with the appointment 
of another independent Non-Executive 
Director well advanced.
Justin Atkinson, our Senior Independent 
Director and Audit Committee Chairman, 
has over 20 years of experience at 
senior management or Director level 
of listed companies, including those in 
engineering and all types of construction. 
Divya Seshamani, independent Non-
Executive Director, chairs the Group Risk 
Committee and has vast experience in 
areas including investment, infrastructure, 
energy, sustainability and manufacturing.
Bradley Boggess and Richard ‘Chip’ 
Cammerer were appointed as Non-
Executive Directors under the terms of 
the relationship agreement between 
the Company and Lone Star Funds. 
Both Brad and Chip bring many years 
of experience at the senior management 
or Director level of businesses including 
those in investment, retail, manufacturing 
and financial services.
The business is run by a highly 
experienced and committed executive 
management team led by Stephen 
Harrison, Chief Executive Officer and 
Shatish Dasani, Chief Financial Officer. 
Stephen joined Hanson plc in 2002 and 
was Managing Director of the business 
over the four years prior to the IPO. 
Shatish has many years of experience 
within listed companies with exposure 
to building materials, manufacturing, 
electronics and business services.
People
The performance of the business and 
our success is due to the hard work and 
dedication of all of our employees across 
the Group, and I would like to thank them 
all for their excellent work during the year .
On listing, under the Share Incentive Plan 
we were pleased to give each employee a 
deferred stake of £500 in the equity of the 
Company subject to them continuing to be 
with us over the next three years. We also 
launched the Group-wide employee 
Sharesave scheme in October and were 
delighted with a strong participation rate 
of 62% from employees who elected to 
save up to £500 per month for a period 
of three years.
We will continue to put increasing 
employee engagement and people 
development at the forefront of our plans.
Current trading and outlook
2017 has started well, building on the 
momentum seen in the second half of 
2016, with brick volumes for the first two 
months ahead of last year. The Group 
continues to see strong activity levels 
from the major housebuilders and positive 
indications from these customers for at 
least the first half of the year. It appears 
that the destocking in the builders’ 
merchants supply chain is now largely 
complete. As anticipated, price increases 
for the year have now been agreed with 
most customers in order to cover the 
increases in the cost base.
Based on our order book and current 
levels of activity, the outlook for the first 
half of the year is good. We have less 
visibility on the second half, however we 
anticipate a more balanced outcome 
between the first and second halves 
than in 2016. At this stage we expect 
to make progress through 2017 
and our expectations for the full year 
are unchanged.
The Board remains confident that the 
business is well positioned to take 
advantage of the attractive market 
fundamentals and of its ability to increase 
shareholder value.
Paul Lester CBE
Chairman
4
Forterra plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s Statement continued
