 16
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Letter
Optimising performance
There were challenges and setbacks,  
to be sure – three fatalities, which we see  
as unacceptable, slower than expected 
turnaround at our flagship Fresnillo mine 
and technical issues and construction 
delays at San Julián – but also remarkable 
improvements in capacity utilisation, 
notably at Saucito and Herradura,  
and cash costs across the organisation.  
This comes in the context of volatile  
but improved metal prices that boosted 
revenues, profits and our cash position.
My enthusiasm for improved market 
conditions is somewhat tempered by  
their current unpredictability. In years  
past, precious metals prices were generally 
driven upward by supply constraints, 
geopolitical tensions and investors seeking 
safe havens. Over the course of 2016, these 
fundamentals may not have impacted 
pricing the way we have come to expect, 
confounding both industry analysts and 
market experts.
However, at Fresnillo, we have always 
believed that strategy and execution  
are the true drivers of value creation.  
We look to operational excellence, targeted 
investment, disciplined cash management 
and sustainable business practices as  
the benchmark of success. In that regard,  
I remain confident that we are on the  
right path to meeting our commitments  
to profitability and sustainability across 
precious metal price cycles. 
T o support this, we are undertaking  
a comprehensive review of the role 
technology and innovation play in 
managing the internal variables under  
our control, and the extent to which our 
systems and data are secure. I am leading 
the IT Governance Committee through  
a digital transformation: everything from 
personnel management and predictive 
maintenance, to mine ventilation, simulator 
training and reactant consumption.  
We have implemented a number of new 
systems already and will continue to 
monitor their effectiveness in delivering 
results and driving our competitive 
advantage, while bolstering our 
cybersecurity protocols.
I am pleased to report a solid 
performance in 2016, with a  
rise in production, delivery of 
the first phase of a key growth 
project, expansion of our 
resource base and a maturing 
sustainability framework. 
By design our 
mines are set  
to yield returns 
across the price 
cycle with all-in 
sustaining costs 
that are amongst 
the lowest in the 
industry.  17
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Operating performance
We produced a record 50.3 moz of silver 
in 2016 (including Silverstream), 7.1% over 
2015 and within our range of 49-51 moz. 
This was primarily due to the start-up of 
San Julián, higher ore grades at Fresnillo 
and Ciénega and, to a lesser extent, higher 
production from Silverstream.
While we met our silver production  
targets, I am disappointed that the Fresnillo 
mine fell short of its turnaround objectives. 
Our aim was to stabilise the rate of 
development at 4,500 metres per month  
in order to maintain throughput at levels 
that would offset the natural and expected 
decline in ore grade. However, due to a lack 
of equipment availability and a shortage  
of skilled personnel, we were unable to 
prepare sufficient infrastructure to sustain 
that rate of development, which put 
pressure on volumes. The Fresnillo mine 
produced 15.9 moz silver in 2016, 1.6% 
higher than in 2015, against our target  
of a double-digit increase. We have  
already made improvements but are 
looking to make additional progress  
in 2017 to deliver our targets.
Gold production reached a record level, 
increasing 22.8% over 2015 to 935.5 koz, 
against our revised guidance of 850-870 
koz. This was the result of the reductions 
of inventories from the leaching pads at 
Herradura, the start-up of phase I at San 
Julián and a higher speed of recovery at 
Noche Buena, which partially offset the 
expected lower ore grade and ore 
processed at Ciénega.
By-product lead production increased 
13.5% on 2015, to 48,144 tonnes, mainly 
as a result of higher ore grades at Fresnillo 
and Ciénega. Similarly, by-product zinc 
production increased 23.5% to 56,845 
tonnes due to higher ore grades and 
recovery rates at Fresnillo and Ciénega and 
increased ore throughput and recovery 
rate at Saucito. 
Construction of phase I of the San Julián 
mine was completed at a slight delay due 
to the need of the contractor to do some 
initial rectification. The milling facility and 
leaching plant were commissioned in the 
summer, and the plant exceeded design 
capacity in the final quarter of the year, 
contributing 2.1 moz to the Group’s total 
silver production and enhancing our 
productivity metrics. Start-up of the phase 
II flotation plant has been delayed from 
year end 2016 to 2Q 2017 due to unusually 
high rainfall, contractor turnover and delays 
in the delivery of certain equipment that 
affected the pace of construction.
Following Board approval of project 
resumption, we completed engineering  
for the new Pyrites plant, placed initial 
equipment orders and began construction. 
This US$155 million project will increase 
silver and gold recovery rates by 
processing tailings, both historical and 
ongoing, from the Fresnillo and Saucito 
mines, generating an expected 3.5 moz 
silver and 13 koz gold per year. The first 
phase leaching plant is expected to come 
on line in 1Q 2018, and the tailings flotation 
facility by year end 2018. 
The Centauro Extension project at 
Herradura, encompassing a second line  
to the dynamic leaching plant, has also 
been approved. Progress in the year 
included detailed engineering, advancing 
the foundations of the milling area  
and placement of orders for various 
components. The US$110 million project  
is expected to extend the life of the mine 
with average gold production of 390 koz 
per year.
Investment in exploration totalled US$137.9 
million, mainly focused on areas of 
influence at current operating mines and 
key exploration sites. Good results were 
achieved at Fresnillo, Saucito, San Julián, 
Pilarica and Guanajuato. 
Resources and reserves reflect the 
following price assumptions: silver at 
US$17.50 per oz (2015: US$15.00), gold  
in underground mines at US$1,250.00 per 
oz (2015: US$1,150.00), and gold in open  
pit resources at US$1,400.00 per oz (2015: 
US$1,300.00). Our high quality asset base 
remains healthy. Gold and silver resources 
increased by 8.2% and 10.2% respectively, 
whilst gold reserves remained unchanged 
and silver reserves decreased 3.2%. (Refer 
to Exploration pages 71-75)
A commitment to sustainable business 
practices
Robust sustainability practices not only 
underpin our licence to operate, they also 
lower operating risk and ensure alignment 
with stakeholders. T o coincide with our 
HSECR framework reaching maturity this 
year, we conducted our first materiality 
assessment to gauge the effectiveness of 
our sustainability strategy and the quality 
of our reporting, the results of which are 
set out on page 77.
continued on page 18
T op: Development at Las Casas, Ciénega District
Bottom: Water treatment Plant in the Fresnillo District
IT Strategy
• Ensure the security, continuity and 
confidentiality of our networks, 
systems and data. 
• Optimise execution to reduce  
costs, increase productivity  
and throughput, and improve  
safety metrics.
• Transform processes with disruptive 
technologies that will evolve the 
business model.
• Support decision making with  
big data analytics and automatic 
generation of insights.
 See pages 56-57 18
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Letter continued
Key commitments for 2017
Strengthen our safety performance 
with zero tolerance for non-
compliance, and increased 
investment and support for  
training and oversight.
Improve and optimise performance 
at the Fresnillo mine by developing 
infrastructure at the lower levels 
sufficient to increase the 
development rate to 4,800 metres 
per month by year end; commence 
work on plant optimisation; and 
continue the deepening of the San 
Carlos shaft and expansion of the 
tailings dam.
Commission the second phase of 
San Julián on time and on budget 
in 2Q 2017, including installing 
vibrating screens at the leaching 
plant to achieve an average  
of 4,000 tpd milling capacity. 
Furthermore, we will deploy 
efficiency teams to reduce costs, 
with a focus on drilling methods, 
and identify additional long-term 
sources of water for industrial use.
 See pages 28-29
These factors more than compensated  
for the additional production costs arising 
from the increased ore throughput at 
Herradura and Saucito. However, cost  
of sales increased by 1.2% over 2015  
mainly due to the decrease in inventories 
at Herradura following the increased 
processing capacity achieved with the 
commissioning of the second Merrill  
Crowe plant, as well as higher depreciation.
The increase in revenues more than offset 
the higher cost of sales, resulting in a 
103.7% increase in gross profit to US$882.1 
million. Gross margin was 46.3% compared 
to 30.0% in the previous year. The higher 
gross profit and lower administrative and 
exploration expenses resulted in an 88.5% 
increase in EBITDA, with an expansion  
in the margin from 37.9% in 2015 to 54.2% 
in 2016.
Profit from continuing operations  
before income tax increased by 238.2%  
to US$718.2 million. Income tax expense 
increased 101.4% to US$259.9 million as  
a result of higher profits, with an effective 
tax rate of 36.2% excluding the special 
mining right (2015: 60.7%), and 40.8% 
including the effects of the special mining 
right (2015: 67.3%). Net profit for the period 
was US$425.0 million, a 512.4% increase 
over 2015.
The 20.1% devaluation of the Mexican peso 
against the US dollar as of 31 December 
resulted in non-cash charges to the income 
statement and affected the monetary 
position and value of certain assets and 
liabilities, resulting in a higher deferred  
tax charge. 
Cash flow generated by operations, before 
changes in working capital, increased by 
90.5% to US$1,023.3 million as a result of 
higher profits. Capital expenditure totalled 
US$434.1 million, a decrease of 8.6% over 
2015; key investments in the year included 
construction at the San Julián project, 
stripping activities and the construction  
of the leaching pads at Herradura, and 
development at Fresnillo, Ciénega and 
Saucito. Other uses of funds in the year 
were income tax and profit sharing paid  
of US$114.8 million and dividends paid of 
US$88.2 million. We closed the year net 
cash flow positive.
The Group maintained a strong balance 
sheet. Cash, cash equivalents and short-term 
investments totalled US$912.0 million, an 
82.3% increase over 2015; debt remained at 
US$800.0 million as at 31 December 2016.
A detailed review of our performance is set 
out in the Financial Review.
Outlook 2017
By design, our mines are set to yield 
returns across the price cycle, with all-in 
sustaining costs that are amongst the 
lowest in the industry, giving us financial 
and operating flexibility in a range of 
market conditions. We aim to produce 
58–61 moz of silver, including 4 moz from 
the Silverstream, and 870–900 koz of gold 
in 2017, reflecting no further production 
benefit from the reduction of inventories  
at Herradura. 
Given the uncertainty of forecasting 
precious metals prices in the current 
environment, we continue to take a 
cautious approach and investment 
decisions will be evaluated on a project-by-
project basis against key criteria; US$800 
million has been budgeted for capital 
expenditures in 2017, to be allocated 
primarily to San Julián, the Pyrites plant, 
the second line of the DLP and, pending 
approval, initial construction at Juanicipio, 
as well as sustaining capex at current 
operations including the Fresnillo 
expansion. A further US$160 million  
has been budgeted for exploration, 
including capitalised expenses. 
The Centauro Deep and Ciénega 
expansion projects are still under 
exploration prior to Board evaluation, while 
every effort will be made to improve and 
enhance project metrics for longer-term 
growth prospects such as Orisyvo.
Our strategic goals are unchanged: to 
profitably and sustainably maintain the 
Group’s position as the world’s largest 
primary silver company and a leading gold 
producer in Mexico. Our high quality, low 
cost assets, extensive growth pipeline and 
balance sheet strength leave us well placed 
to deliver on our 2018 production and 
reserves targets. More immediately, we are 
focused on meeting our commitments to 
improve and optimise performance at the 
Fresnillo mine, commission the second 
phase of San Julián on time and on budget, 
and strengthen our safety performance.
I am grateful for the continued confidence 
placed in us by our people, communities, 
suppliers, clients and shareholders, and 
look forward to another year together.
Octavio Alvídrez
Chief Executive Officer
1. Adjusted production costs is calculated as total production costs less depreciation, profit sharing  
and the effects of exchange rate hedging.
We fell short of our safety targets this year , 
with three fatal injuries in 2016 and one  
at the beginning of 2017 . We have taken  
a number of steps to strengthen our safety 
culture, including the implementation of  
a new Safety Information System. Our 
decision to terminate a Company contractor 
this year reflects the prioritisation of safety 
above all other operational considerations, 
notwithstanding the shortage of contractors 
in certain districts as well as the short-term 
impact on production.
However, we made important advances in 
other metrics of sustainability in the areas 
of health, environment and community 
relations. These include chronic illnesses 
and water utilisation rates. 
Financial results
Our average realised gold and silver prices 
rose by 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively. As a 
result, adjusted revenues totalled US$2,045 
million, 29.2% above the previous year. 
Adjusted production costs 
1 
decreased by 
2.5%, mainly explained by the favourable 
effect of the 17.7% average devaluation of 
the Mexican peso vs. the US dollar during 
2016, lower energy prices and the positive 
impact of our cost reduction initiatives. 
