 06
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
Chairman’s Statement
Meeting our commitments
Against this backdrop, we have remained 
firmly committed to creating sustained 
and shared value for all our stakeholders, 
focusing on efficient, competitive 
operations and high potential silver  
and gold projects that can be developed 
into low cost mines able to withstand 
unpredictable metal prices. We have 
invested consistently over the cycle,  
and thus have been able to grow and 
retain a motivated and qualified team.  
Our strategic direction, combined with 
quality assets, operational flexibility and 
efficiency, solid financial position and 
enduring commitment to responsible 
business practices are the pillars of 
long-term value creation.
The year in review
Precious metal prices, while still volatile, 
performed well in 2016 and reversed  
their downward trend spanning several 
years. Our average realised gold and silver 
prices rose 10.7% and 10.3%, respectively, 
over 2015. The Group’s gold and silver 
production increased 22.8% and 7.1%, 
respectively, exceeding its gold production 
target for the year and meeting the target 
for silver.
Better prices and higher volumes led to 
robust financial results. Y our Company 
generated US$2,045.0 million in adjusted 
revenues in 2016, a rise of 29.2% over the 
prior year, with a 505.5% increase in profit 
attributable to shareholders and US$12.6 
million distributed to employees and 
workers in profit sharing. The cash, cash 
equivalents and short-term investments  
at year end were US$912.0 million and  
debt was US$800 million.
continued on page 08
We seek to  
ensure that  
capital allocation 
balances growth, 
shareholder 
returns, financial 
strength and 
flexibility , within 
the context  
of a maturing 
sustainability 
framework. 
Over the course of Fresnillo plc’s eight 
years as a publicly listed company,  
a number of trends have reshaped the  
global mining industry and altered the 
competitive landscape: pressure on 
profitability arising from commodity  
price and currency volatility, rising costs, 
and maturing mines with declining ore 
grades; lower rates of return on capital 
projects concurrent with increased 
shareholder appetite for returns; rising 
social and environmental awareness; and 
governmental initiatives to regulate and 
derive additional revenue from the sector, 
among others. 07
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Trust
Responsibility
Integrity
Safety
Loyalty
Embedding best practices
Our Code of Conduct, founded upon our 
values, is a set of rules and principles that 
guide our behaviours and actions, including 
guidance on complying with the UK Bribery 
Act 2010 and the Mexican General Law of the 
National Anti-Corruption System. Workshops 
and master classes are conducted regularly 
to embed ethics and integrity in the culture, 
in combination with an online training 
programme and evaluation to effectively reach 
employees. We recognise that embedding 
ethics in the culture as a core competence  
in the organisational structure support our 
strategic and operating goals.
Board oversight 
The Health, Safety, Environment and 
Community Relations Committee has been 
given responsibility for overseeing the ethics 
programme on behalf of the Board.
 See pages 91-92
Our Values
We aspire to demonstrate a well-
established ethical culture through 
our actions and behaviours. Our 
values are the cornerstone of our 
Ethics and Culture programme.
Vertical conveyor at the Fresnillo mine 08
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
However, we also encountered operational 
challenges. The Fresnillo mine faced 
ongoing issues and failed to reach its 
projected production. While silver grades 
were slightly higher than in 2015, volumes 
came under pressure due to a shortage  
of skilled personnel, leading to insufficient 
mine development and preparation,  
as well as narrower veins. Management 
oversight and mine planning have been  
strengthened and we expect gradual and 
continued improvement over the coming 
year. Fortunately, a solid performance at 
Saucito and the initial contribution of San 
Julián compensated for the shortfall and 
the Group as a whole met its silver targets 
for the year.
The first phase of San Julián was 
commissioned in the year, despite a delay, 
and is now operating above its nominal 
capacity, contributing to annual silver  
and gold production. The second phase is 
expected to be commissioned in 2Q 2017, 
also at a delay of several months from the 
previous target, as the impact of certain 
external factors had been underestimated, 
including unforeseen extreme weather, 
delays in equipment deliveries and 
difficulties in obtaining permits. We  
remain confident that San Julián will be  
a successful new mine and may open up 
additional growth potential in the district.
The Board approved the resumption of  
the Pyrites project in the Fresnillo District, 
which will improve overall recoveries of 
gold and silver contents by processing 
historical and ongoing tailings from  
the Fresnillo and Saucito mines,  
which otherwise would have been lost. 
Always an attractive project from an  
IRR perspective, the Board’s decision  
to resume construction was supported  
by better than expected cash generation  
in the first half of the year and a healthy 
balance sheet.
The Board also approved the construction 
of a second line at the Dynamic Leaching 
Plant (DLP) at Herradura to increase gold 
recovery from the Centauro pit, and thus 
higher production from this mine. We 
continue to evaluate a major expansion 
of Herradura based on the most recent 
exploration results below the open pit. 
Furthermore, Juanicipio, our joint venture 
with Mag Silver, will be presented to the 
Board for approval in 2017.
Exploration results were positive, with an 
8.2% and 10.2% increase in total gold and 
silver resources, respectively. Gold reserves 
remained stable, whilst silver reserves 
decreased 3.2%. Our resource base remains 
very sound as we progress towards our 
2018 goals.
Chairman’s Statement continued
I deeply regret to report that three fatal 
accidents occurred in the year , as well as 
one in early 2017 , a major setback for our 
safety programme. Following investigations, 
management has taken decisive steps to 
prevent the type of human errors that are 
invariably a root cause in these accidents. 
Safety continues to be our highest priority, 
above production and profitability, yet we 
recognise that even with best-in-class 
systems and practices in place, our safety 
culture must be further strengthened and 
deeply embedded within the Company.  
T o that end, the Board’s Health, Safety, 
Environment and Community Relations 
(HSECR) Committee continued to review 
the culture and values as part of its work  
in overseeing the safety culture in 2016.
Dividends
Fresnillo plc’s dividend policy takes into 
account the profitability of the business 
and underlying earnings, as well as the 
Group’s capital requirements and cash 
flows. An annual dividend of between 
33-50% of profit after tax is paid out  
each year in the approximate proportion  
of one-third as an interim dividend and 
two-thirds as a final dividend. This provides 
the required flexibility to consider the 
cyclical behaviour of precious metal prices 
and other factors that could affect our 
financial position.
For 2016, the Board declared an interim 
dividend of 8.6 US cents per share and  
a final dividend of 21.5 US cents per  
share, totalling US$158.4 million. We  
believe the Group remains well placed  
to meet its current and future financial 
requirements, including its development 
and exploration projects.
Our governance agenda
The Board’s agenda in 2016 was focused 
on ensuring continued compliance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code, 
addressing outstanding and emerging 
issues related to our 2014 External Board 
Evaluation action plan, Group culture  
and the composition of the Board with 
regards to the number of Independent 
Non-executive Directors. 09
Fresnillo plc Annual Report 2016
FRESNILLO TODAY STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
My colleagues and I take an active role in 
setting Group strategy, reviewing progress 
against plan and ensuring sufficient 
flexibility to respond to changing market 
conditions within the context of our 
commitment to continuous investment 
through metal price cycles. As part of  
the Board’s planning process, we seek  
to ensure that capital allocation balances 
growth, shareholder returns, financial 
strength and flexibility, within the context 
of a maturing sustainability framework 
centred on good corporate governance, 
environmental stewardship and 
constructive community engagement.
Board changes
Charles Jacobs was appointed Senior 
Independent Director at the AGM in May 
2016, and we welcomed Alberto Tiburcio 
to the Board as an Independent Non-
executive Director, serving on the Audit 
Committee. As Chairman and CEO of  
Ernst & Y oung Mexico from 2001 until  
his retirement in 2013, Mr Tiburcio brings 
with him extensive experience as statutory 
auditor and advisor to many prestigious 
Mexican companies.
I am grateful for the service of the two 
members who stood down from the Board 
in 2016: Rafael MacGregor, Non-executive 
Director, whose role as Chairman of  
the Health, Safety, Environment and 
Community Relations Committee has  
been filled by Arturo Fernández, Non-
executive Director; and María Asunción 
Aramburuzabala, Independent Non-
executive Director who also served on the 
HSECR Committee. Both Directors made 
significant contributions to the Board and 
Company during their eight and four years 
of respective service.
Looking ahead
Despite their recovery during the year, we 
believe gold and silver prices will remain 
volatile. Indeed, renewed signs of weakness 
at year end 2016 due to expectations of 
rising interest rates in the US point to the 
uncertainty of any sustained recovery. 
Furthermore, geopolitical factors such as 
Brexit, the new administration in the US, 
ongoing tensions in the Middle East and 
developments in China and India make 
forecasting unpredictable. 
We therefore maintain our disciplined 
approach to investment: growth projects 
will continue to be evaluated against a 
range of metrics, including operational  
and technical factors, pricing and market 
considerations, and our financial position.
For 2017, we have increased our year-on-
year capital expenditures and exploration 
budget, by 71.1% over the 2016 spend,  
to US$950 million. We believe this level  
of investment enables us to achieve our 
2018 goals while setting the groundwork 
for the next decade of the Company’s 
development. 
Dedicated to meeting our commitments
The goals to which we held ourselves 
accountable at the time of our IPO in 2008 
have changed only insomuch as some 
targets have already been met, notably  
our gold production as a result of the 
acquisition of 44% of Penmont and 
continued improvements at Herradura.
For the near term, our focus will be on 
efficiency, cost control and meeting our 
operational commitments: the turnaround 
of the Fresnillo mine and the successful 
start-up of the second phase of San Julián. 
We will continue to set the bar higher for 
ourselves in other areas such as safety, 
governance processes and organisational 
effectiveness. The latter may be more 
difficult to quantify, but is as vital to 
long-term shareholder value creation as 
our low cost operations, project pipeline 
and portfolio of exploration projects that 
serve as key drivers of future growth.
Our ability to meet these commitments 
depends chiefly on our people. T ogether 
with my fellow Directors, I extend  
my gratitude for their dedication and  
hard work.
Alberto Baillères
Non-executive Chairman
Key Board agenda 
items in 2016
• Safety and fatalities.
• Corporate culture, organisational 
effectiveness.
• Fresnillo mine turnaround.
• San Julián Project deliverance.
• Preparation of first Viability 
Statement.
• Dividend policy, hedging 
programme, investment allocation.
• Board composition.
• T ender for 2017 external auditor 
appointment.
 The Corporate Governance Report  
set out on pages 113-156 illustrates the  
full range of Committee activity and 
Board actions in pursuit of long-term 
shareholder value creation.
