 Chairman’s Statement
The structure of the Friends Provident Group is
centred around two core businesses – Life and
Pensions, and Asset Management – and the strategy
we set out at the time of our demutualisation and
public listing in 2001 clearly articulated our intention
to grow them both and, at the same time, to bring
them more into balance with each other in terms of
their respective contributions to the Group. As part 
of this strategy we established an objective of
becoming a “top ﬁve player” in the Asset
Management business in the UK by 2007.
The continuing weakness in stockmarkets worldwide
from 2001 to 2003 coupled with the aftermath of
“9/11” tested the Group’s resilience and resolve 
in the three years or so following our public listing.
However, tough times bring opportunities to build
businesses and we made two acquisitions in 2002,
with further initiatives through 2003 and 2004. We
have previously reported the development of ISIS
Asset Management plc through the acquisition of the
Royal & SunAlliance asset management business.
This was followed in October 2004 by the merger 
of the enlarged ISIS with F&C (well known for
managing the Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust
amongst others) creating a publicly listed Asset
Management business with £125 billion of funds
under management at 31st December 2004 and in
which we own a controlling interest of 51%. F&C
Asset Management plc is now ranked in the top ﬁve
in the UK in terms of funds under management,
some two years ahead of our original objective.
At the same time our Life & Pensions business has
developed with strong growth in new business over
the past two years and two signiﬁcant acquisitions 
in the international arena that have created a broader
base and brought better balance within this core
business. In 2002 we acquired the Royal & SunAlliance
international business based in the Isle of Man.
In 2004 the proposed acquisition of another
international business – Lombard International
Assurance S.A., based in Luxembourg – was
announced. This became effective in early 2005.
We have great hopes for the expanded international
business which we anticipate will contribute about
“The strong ethical
principles that underpin
our business continue
to provide a clear point
of differentiation for 
us today.”
David Newbigging, Chairman
2 Friends Provident  35% of total life and pensions new business in 2005.
This enlarged part of our Group will also make
Friends Provident one of the leading companies 
in international cross-border business, and Lombard
will continue to trade under its well-established 
and respected name from its Luxembourg base.
The acquisitions described above have dramatically
changed the proﬁle of the Friends Provident Group.
The accelerated development of the Asset
Management business means that both our 
core businesses have real scale and stature, and 
we have created the better balanced Group, in 
terms of diversiﬁed earnings streams, which we
identiﬁed as one of our key objectives following
demutualisation. Our geographical reach has also
been extended and by expanding the international
cross-border business we have created a stronger
platform for future growth. The Chief Executive
explains these acquisitions and their prospects 
more fully in his Review. 
The following table gives some key ﬁnancial
indicators of the progress of Friends Provident 
since our public listing in 2001.
As was made clear in the Notice of our Annual
General Meeting last year, I will retire as Chairman
and a Director at the close of our AGM on 26th May
this year. I will be succeeded as Chairman by Adrian
Montague who joined our Board in October 2004 
and has since served on the Audit, Remuneration 
and Investment Committees, giving him an excellent
grounding in our business. Your Board unanimously
recommends his election as a Director at the 
AGM. As you can see from page 23 of our 
Report & Accounts, Adrian is well qualiﬁed for 
the Chairmanship having been a partner of 
Linklaters & Paines, and global head of project
ﬁnance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson before
becoming Chairman or Director of several public 
and private companies. I wish him every success.
Financial results
Our 2004 operating proﬁt before amortisation of
goodwill, operating exceptional items and tax, was
£344 million on an achieved proﬁts basis, and 
£317 million on a modiﬁed statutory solvency 
basis. On the industry standard Annual Premium
Equivalent* basis, new life and pensions business
increased from the record level set last year to a new
record of £434 million, and its contribution to proﬁts
before tax increased to £83 million, with underlying
margins continuing to improve.
Our balance sheet has been strengthened further 
by raising £380 million of tier one capital described
below and our free asset ratio has risen from 8.4% 
in 2002 to 12.2% at the end of 2004. Our risk capital
margin is now covered over six times.
Dividends
Subject to shareholders’ approval, the Board has
recommended a ﬁnal dividend of 5.0 pence per share
which, if approved, would bring the total dividend for
2004 to 7.55 pence per share. This would be covered
1.5 times and would represent a 2.0% increase over
the 2003 total dividend of 7.4 pence per share. We
have been able to increase the dividend each year
since our listing in 2001 and it remains our intention
to continue annual increases going forward.
Group funding
Both the merger with F&C and the acquisition of
Lombard were funded primarily through the issue of
new Friends Provident shares. On both occasions,
the underlying share price remained stable, indicating
that both acquisitions were received positively in the
market. Additionally, Friends Provident successfully
raised £380 million of tier one capital in December
2004. The securitisation vehicle we used for this
transaction is more common to the banking industry
but has proved a cost-effective method for
monetising some of the capital we had tied up in 
our business. The interest payable was set at an
attractive rate, equivalent to approximately 5.5% p.a.
This positive outcome was a combination of good
timing and the associated bonds representing an
attractive investment opportunity.
Regulatory environment
Industry complacency, coupled with well-publicised
corporate misdemeanours in this country and the
United States, have led to considerable regulatory
change over the last three years. We have been
broadly supportive, but there is a danger that the
pendulum may have swung too far toward over-
prescription which could inhibit the spirit of enterprise
which is so essential to any strong and developing
company or industry. It is essential that we do not
simply become “box tickers” in terms of Corporate
Governance. Boards must have the authority and
responsibility for their strategy and its execution. 
Friends Provident’s progress since 2001
2001 2004 Increase
Life and pensions
new business APE* £343m £434m +27%
Life and pensions contribution 
from new business £54m £83m +54%
Life and pensions contribution 
from new business/Pro forma
embedded value 1.5% 3.0% +100%
Asset management funds 
under management £34bn £125bn +268%
Asset management 
operating margin 28.7% 36.1% +26%
* The Annual Premium Equivalent (APE) measure adds together new regular premium business and one tenth of single premium business.
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 3 Chairman’s Statement continued
Our industry now needs a period of stability and the
focus needs to switch from those who provide
ﬁnancial products and services to those who are in
urgent need of them. It has been widely reported
that the gap between what people are saving for
their retirement and what people need to save is far
in excess of the £27 billion so often quoted over the
past two years or so, and is probably much nearer to
the £57 billion referred to in the late-2004 report by
Adair Turner who had been commissioned by the
Government to undertake a study into pensions.
Boards and Management have a crucial role to play 
in restoring consumer conﬁdence and in helping to
increase ﬁnancial awareness generally. But our
efforts should aim to be in collaboration with the
Government, which needs to do more to encourage
and incentivise people to save for their future. Strong
leadership is required in both the Public and Private
sectors to achieve this.
Corporate responsibility
The strong ethical principles that underpin our
business can be traced back to our Quaker origins 
in 1832 and continue to provide a clear point of
differentiation for us today. In 2004 we celebrated
the 20th anniversary of our ground-breaking, ethically
invested Stewardship Unit Trust, the ﬁrst of its kind.
The Stewardship range is still the market leader in
terms of retail ethical funds under management. 
In July 2004, the Friends Provident Foundation was
endowed with £20 million worth of Friends Provident
shares, unclaimed since our demutualisation. This
should generate an income of some £0.8 million per
annum, which will represent the major part of our
future annual charitable giving and will enable the
Foundation to begin its ﬁnancial support of initiatives
that aim to address some of the social needs facing
the UK today. 
Through the signiﬁcant investments we hold in 
a wide range of quoted companies, we continue 
to use our voting power to bring about positive 
and constructive change in the wider business
community. Our voting record is published on our
website, www.friendsprovident.com. If you cannot
attend and vote in person at our Annual General
Meeting on 26th May 2005, may I encourage you 
to vote, either by post or online, on the resolutions
being put forward at that meeting. 
The Board
At the end of 2004, Graham Aslet retired after 
35 years with Friends Provident, the last 17 as 
an executive director and Appointed Actuary. It is
impossible to condense such a long and varied career
into just a few words but I must acknowledge
Graham’s contribution to the brilliant design of our
computer system in the mid to late 70s. This was 
a remarkable innovation at the time, providing Friends
Provident with a competitive edge that we still retain
today through the imaginative development over the
years of that base system. In later years, in his role
as Appointed Actuary, Graham was deeply involved
in our demutualisation to ensure that policyholders
were treated fairly and that the Company’s structure
was appropriate for a ﬂotation on the Stock
Exchange. This was a complex undertaking and
Graham’s diligence in this, as with everything he
handles, was invaluable.
At the close of the Annual General Meeting, Brian
Sweetland will also retire. Brian has dedicated the
greater part of his working life to Friends Provident,
having joined us in 1974, becoming the Company
Secretary in 1983 and an executive director in 1995.
As with Graham, a few words will inevitably
understate the huge impact Brian has made on
Friends Provident over his 30 years of loyal service.
In particular, we have Brian to thank for the
development of our extensive and comprehensive
governance, compliance and risk management
regimes; pre-requisites for operating effectively 
in the ﬁnancial services industry today. 
Both of these executive directors have made
immense contributions to the development of the
Friends Provident Group and they leave with our
grateful thanks. I am delighted that Graham will
remain a member of the Board’s With Proﬁts
Committee, which looks after the interests of the
with proﬁt policyholders, and that Brian will continue
to be a Trustee of the Friends Provident Foundation
and a member of the Committee of Reference,
which determines the investment selection criteria
for the Group’s range of Stewardship and other
ethical investment products and services.
I have already mentioned Adrian Montague, my
successor, who at the age of 57 represents a
generational change on the Friends Provident Board
at a time when we are well placed to meet and
succeed in the exciting challenges of the future. 
Closing remarks
In closing my valedictory remarks, there is a
temptation to reﬂect on the past when challenges
and prospects are of course in the future. I have
served on this Board and that of the Life Ofﬁce since
1993, and have been Chairman since 1998. So, for
more than a decade, I have observed the evolution 
of Corporate Governance Best Practice and the
associated opinions on the independence of
Directors and Chairmen. My own view is that
independence is a state of mind, not a function of
years of service. While skills can be taught and
bought, leadership cannot. I certainly have no regrets
at having served on all the main Committees of this
Board before becoming Chairman of the Life Ofﬁce
and then of the plc. That experience, particularly
chairing the Audit Committee, was invaluable in
4 Friends Provident  understanding the Group and monitoring ﬁnancial
controls, particularly through the complexities of the
demutualisation and public listing process in 2001. 
The fact that Friends Provident today is an
independent, publicly listed company and a respected
constituent of the FTSE 100 – some would say
against the odds in 2001 – shows how far it has
come from its roots as a mutual life ofﬁce founded
by Quakers in 1832 in Ackworth School in Yorkshire.
The Company has achieved its eminent position due
to the commitment, loyalty and determination of
many generations who have worked for Friends
Provident and I sincerely thank them. 
I must also thank my Board colleagues – executive
and non-executive – for their support and friendship. 
I believe our current directors are a ﬁrst class team
as were their predecessors who demonstrated 
a high level of resolve and commitment in 2001
when Friends Provident went through probably the
greatest change in its long history. I would particularly
like to thank Keith Satchell, who has been Chief
Executive throughout my Chairmanship. 
Much is written about the relationship between the
Chairman and the Chief Executive, but one thing for
certain is that a good and enduring relationship does
not just happen. It has to be made to happen. Keith
is an excellent Chief Executive; intelligent, straight,
professional in his understanding of the business,
and commanding the respect of his executive team.
He communicates well and his quick wit and sense
of humour have made my job much easier than it
might otherwise have been. I have enjoyed working
with him and indeed all our directors – past and
present – who are deeply committed to Friends
Provident. I have been proud to serve as Chairman 
of this company and wish it, our customers and
shareholders every good fortune in the future. 
David Newbigging
Chairman
17 March 2005
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 5
“The Company has
achieved its eminent
position due to the
commitment, loyalty
and determination 
of many generations
who have worked for
Friends Provident.”
