 Group Chief Executive’s Review
“We have pushed hard over
recent years to transform
this Group from what it
was to what it is today.”
Group Chief Executive Keith Satchell with his 
Senior Executive Team: Philip Moore, Ben Gunn, 
Howard Carter and Brian Sweetland.
First, let me record my gratitude for the wise counsel 
and unswerving support that I have received from 
David Newbigging. David was appointed Chairman 
a year after my appointment in 1997 as Group Chief
Executive, so for me it has been a long and valued
partnership and one from which I have learned a great
deal. David brought a huge amount of understanding 
and wisdom to our Board, and on behalf of my fellow
directors and all my colleagues, I offer our sincere thanks
and send our very best wishes to David for the future. 
I welcome Adrian Montague as Chairman and very much
look forward to working with him on the next chapter 
of development of the Friends Provident Group. 
▼
6 Friends Provident  Industry overview
Life and Pensions
Following two years of contraction, market data
provided by the Association of British Insurers (ABI)
shows there was a 3% upturn in the life and
pensions market over 2004. This increase was 
aided by signs of a renewed conﬁdence in the
stockmarket, with Life single premium investment
business up 23% on 2003. The ABI data also reveals
that distributors continue to place a high proportion 
of business with the top ten providers. In 2004,
these top ten companies, which include Friends
Provident, attracted 71% of all UK life and pensions
new business, compared with 66% in 2001, rising 
to 70% in 2002 and 72% in 2003. This reﬂects the
range of services and levels of security that distributors
increasingly seek, and that generally are only found in
the larger, more ﬁnancially secure, providers.
Consolidation in the IFA community has continued
throughout 2004, leading to the emergence of fewer,
more powerful distributors. We believe the size and
shape of UK distribution will continue to evolve over
the next couple of years, as the impact of the current
regulatory changes is felt, with distributors now
having the option to ‘tie’ to a number of providers.
Market conditions remain tough, and the pressure 
to reduce costs and improve capital efﬁciency is 
a constant. Most product providers are active in
seeking to secure tied distribution agreements with
adviser organisations, with technology increasingly
holding the key to controlling costs and delivering
efﬁciencies for both parties, while enhancing service
to customers. 
Press coverage of the perceived ‘pensions crisis’ 
has been building throughout 2004 and now has 
a momentum which cannot be ignored. The Chairman
has alluded to the gap between actual and required
savings, highlighted by the Adair Turner Pensions
Commission report and the ABI’s Pensions and
Savings Index. Both reports point to around 12 million
people not saving enough to ensure adequate
income in their old age. In efforts to address this, the
Government has embarked on a number of initiatives,
particularly the introduction of the stakeholder
product suite, the increase to the stakeholder charge
cap and measures to simplify pensions. However, 
a Government-commissioned report released in
December 2004 shares our view that much more
needs to be done, principally by Government, to
address this growing issue. The task force behind 
the December report, led by Sir Peter Davis, noted
that three-quarters of stakeholder schemes set up 
by employers still have no members. Conversely,
where employers contribute to an occupational
pension scheme, three-quarters of their workforce
join the scheme. It remains questionable whether
pension provision, beyond State beneﬁts, can remain
entirely voluntary unless there is a more radical
approach to incentives and creation of demand. 
Asset Management
Despite a healthy 14% return from the FTSE All
Share Index during 2004, statistics published by 
the Investment Management Association reﬂect a
difﬁcult year for UK retail funds sales. While industry-
wide gross retail funds sales were 8% higher in 2004
than 2003, net sales were some 42% lower as
existing investors redeemed their investments. 
The picture was particularly challenging for sales of
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) where industry-
wide gross sales were ﬂat year on year and net sales
went into negative territory for the ﬁrst time since
ISAs were introduced in 1999.
We believe there are a number of factors contributing
to this lack of conﬁdence from retail investors. These
include concerns about the housing market, high oil
prices, events in Iraq and the breakdown of trust in
the ﬁnancial services industry. Against this difﬁcult
backdrop, survey work conducted for F&C suggests
that ISA sales have also suffered from a perception
that the Government has not been fully committed 
to this product because of the abolition of tax credits
on equity dividends within ISAs. 
During 2004 retail investors showed a strong
preference for income generating products, including
corporate bond funds, equity income funds and
commercial property. There were relatively few fund
launches in the UK, with the exception of property
investments, which appealed to investors because 
of their yield characteristics.
Regulatory overview
A number of proposed regulatory changes took
effect in 2004, the most signiﬁcant being the 
ending of polarisation and the introduction of
mortgage regulation.
Under the polarisation rules introduced in 1988,
ﬁnancial advisers were either independent or tied 
to one company. The new ‘depolarised’ world,
effective from 1 December 2004, has introduced 
the concept of ‘multi-ties’ whereby tied advisers 
can offer the products of more than one provider
company. A number of adviser organisations have
already opted for the multi-tie approach and we
believe more will follow. Friends Provident has been
working closely with major distributors throughout
2004 to ensure we are suitably prepared to meet
their changing requirements and to be considered 
as serious contenders for panel positions.
The lending, administration, advising and arranging 
of mortgages became regulated by the Financial
Services Authority (FSA) effective from October
2004. Protection and general insurances became 
FSA regulated from January 2005. We support 
this extension of regulation and see it as a further
step forward in increasing the professionalism 
and reputation of the industry. In the light of these
changes, we have repositioned our Appointed
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 7 Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
Representatives channel to focus exclusively on
mortgage and protection business in the future.
The long-awaited announcement of the stakeholder
charge cap being increased from the proposed 1% 
to 1.5% for the ﬁrst ten years of the product’s life
was made in June 2004. Associated with the charge
cap, a suite of stakeholder products coupled with 
a straightforward advice process will be launched in
April 2005. Although supportive of the Government’s
well-meaning intentions, we remain sceptical as to
whether distributors can create a business model
that adequately rewards their efforts and manages
their risks. We continue to evaluate any opportunities
from our own perspective.
The FSA’s Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) initiative
was launched as another aid to help consumers 
gain a better understanding of ﬁnancial services 
and to enhance consumer conﬁdence in the life 
and pensions industry. Our business is built on
helping our customers through the complexities 
of ﬁnancial services; therefore we fully support this
initiative. We have incorporated TCF into our
corporate strategy and are ensuring that all areas 
of our business continue to assess their processes
and procedures to best serve the interests of all 
our stakeholders. 
Looking further ahead to April 2006, the Government
plans to simplify the tax regimes relating to pensions,
making them easier for consumers to understand
and cheaper for both pension providers and the
Inland Revenue to administer. We welcome any
move to make pensions more straightforward, but
believe that this in itself will still be insufﬁcient to
stimulate consumers to save for their futures. 
Strategy 
Although the ﬁnancial services industry has been 
the subject of unprecedented levels of review and
reorganisation over recent years, the strategy that 
we developed long before our demutualisation, 
and subsequently published in 2001, at the time 
of our ﬂotation, continues to prove itself right for 
our business. 
There can be little argument that we continue to
deliver strongly against these strategic aims. Since
2001, the year of our ﬂotation, our share of the UK
life and pensions market has grown 27%, with an
increasing focus on the more proﬁtable product lines;
group pensions now represents our biggest market;
more than half of all new UK life and pensions
business is currently transacted online using systems
which have virtually ‘swept the board’ for awards in
2004; some 69% of new UK life and pensions
business is now through intermediaries and further
important Independent Financial Adviser (IFA)
partnerships have been established; F&C stands as
one of the top ﬁve asset management companies in
the UK and one of the largest in Europe, and we
have undertaken four signiﬁcant acquisitions 
to complement our organic growth. 
Mergers and acquisitions
As highlighted in the Chairman’s Statement, since
our last Annual Report we have merged our asset
management business with F&C, adopting the F&C
branding, and acquired Luxembourg-based Lombard
International Assurance S.A.
F&C Asset Management plc
The opportunity to enter into the merger with F&C
was facilitated by virtue of our longstanding afﬁliation
with Eureko, the former owners of F&C. To achieve
our 51% controlling interest in F&C, we paid Eureko
£383 million in a combination of cash and Friends
Provident shares. This price allowed to some extent
for the premium paid to reﬂect the prospective
synergies, although this premium was virtually
nulliﬁed through the rise in the value of the 100+
million shares we owned in ISIS. These shares were
suspended at 199 pence per share at the time the
proposed merger was announced, and have traded 
at around 230-255 pence since completion of the
transaction in October 2004. 
The merger of ISIS and F&C has transformed our
asset management business from a predominantly 
UK-focused to a pan-European company of real
stature, managing funds of £125 billion at the close
of 2004. It has effectively rebalanced the Friends
Provident Group and will lift the contribution of the
asset management business to consolidated Group
proﬁts substantially.
The two previous businesses were a compelling
strategic ﬁt. The merger has created a proﬁtable
European-focused asset management group that 
not only has scale but is also considerably more
diverse by skills, products, client type, geography 
and revenues than either of the two previous
entities. Our rationale is to create a platform which 
is scalable for future organic growth; to enhance
investment performance through increased
8 Friends Provident 
Delivering on our strategy
The six strands of our strategy can be summarised as:
• Grow life and pensions market share in a focused 
and proﬁtable manner
• Become one of the top pension providers,
emphasising the Group market
• Apply technology and e-commerce to enhance
distribution, improve service and reduce costs
• Develop particularly our links with the IFA community,
while remaining a multi-channel operator
• Develop our asset management business into 
one of the leaders in its ﬁeld
• Grow organically and pursue acquisitions, where 
the ﬁt is right resources; to achieve cost synergies in an industry
where there are many inefﬁciencies; and to further
diversify the business and widen the range of
products we offer to our clients. The business 
model is a strong one which is able to generate an
operating margin ahead of most of our competitors.
Over the medium term, Friends Provident’s earnings
will beneﬁt from the additional revenue opportunities
expected to arise from the greater strength of the
enlarged asset management business, which is also
likely to beneﬁt our life and pensions customers.
Asset management is a cash generative business
with low capital requirements, and therefore the
merger represents effective deployment of the
Group’s capital. 
Lombard International Assurance S.A. (Lombard)
Just as the merger with F&C has transformed our
asset management business, so the acquisition of
Lombard has transformed our international cross-
border operations, in terms of its scale and its
geographical reach.
The purchase price is geared to the performance of
Lombard up until the end of 2006 and is structured 
to provide appropriate incentive for Lombard’s
management team to continue pursuing the strong
growth that has characterised its past performance.
An initial instalment of c265 million was paid on
11 January 2005, the date the acquisition was
completed, and further instalments will be paid in
April of 2005, 2006 and 2007, based on Lombard’s
performance over the previous calendar year in terms
of new business proﬁts and underlying embedded
value. Based on Lombard’s excellent performance
over 2004, the April 2005 instalment is likely to be
the contract cap of c90 million. Friends Provident
holds the option for paying the purchase price either
in cash or, more likely, in Friends Provident shares.
The initial instalment was met by the issue of
113 million shares in Friends Provident.
Share price performance
During 2004, Friends Provident’s Total Shareholder
Return (TSR), which takes account of growth in 
the share price and the payment of dividends, was
21.33% compared with 23.27% for the FTSE Life
Assurance sector and 11.25% for the FTSE100 Index
of leading shares. Our performance is all the more
creditable when set against the issue of 265 million
new shares during the year relating to the ﬁnancing
of the F&C merger, and the prospective issue 
of shares in respect of the Lombard acquisition,
which, in effect, represented a 22% dilution 
of shareholdings.
Our people
I never cease to be proud of our people. We have
pushed hard over recent years to transform this
Group from what it was to what it is today. Such 
fast-paced growth presents enormous challenges
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 9
“There can be little
argument that we
continue to deliver
strongly against our
strategic aims.” Group Chief Executive’s Review continued
and our staff have never failed to rise to them. 
The many awards we have won in 2004 are 
a reﬂection of their determination not to settle 
for the ordinary but to reach ever higher. Through
their efforts, this Group has achieved so much 
and I know will achieve much more yet – the
potential is there and I know our people will take
every opportunity to continue the Friends Provident
success story, whether under the banner of 
Friends Provident or F&C or, in 2005 and beyond,
Lombard. On behalf of the Board, I thank them.
Outlook
Since our stock market listing in 2001, and in 
testing circumstances, we have successfully
transformed the Group. It is now not only of
considerably greater scale but also more diverse,
more proﬁtable, more customer-focused, and 
more ﬁnancially robust. The very signiﬁcant
foundations laid over the past two years will 
support accelerated proﬁtable growth over the 
next two years and beyond. 
UK Life and Pensions
The UK market remains one of considerable
potential, where the business environment demands
that providers demonstrate to customers positive
points of differentiation. Service is one of our points
of differentiation and we remain committed to
delivering a service experience unrivalled in our
industry and to drawing more customers, through 
the attraction of products, processes and service
designed to meet their needs. 
We have developed product ranges that are
innovative and which maximise the advantages
afforded by our leading-edge application of
technology, particularly in the protection and group
pensions markets. We believe the product streams
we focus on – protection, pensions and investments
– remain the right ones for continued proﬁtable
growth, although the latter is more dependent on
external economic factors.
The relationships we have developed with distributors
are close and strong, and have enabled us to develop
systems and administrative processes of mutual
beneﬁt. As a consequence, we have already 
secured places on most of the early ‘multi-tie’ 
panel announcements and expect more to follow,
demonstrating our ability to succeed in this
competitive environment. Although the time
between signing such agreements and any impact 
on new business volumes normally spans several
months, we believe our approach is securing strong
and proﬁtable distribution for future years. This
should deliver outperformance of the market this
year and accelerating market share growth in 
2006 and beyond. 
International Life and Pensions
The International cross-border market will become
10 Friends Provident 
increasingly important to us and will now be served
from two hubs, the Luxembourg-based Lombard
company working alongside the Isle of Man operation,
enabling us to provide wider access to the ﬁnancial
services we offer. In our 2003 Annual Report, I stated
that our medium-term target was for at least 20% of
our new business to come from outside the UK and
the acquisition of Lombard will more than meet this
target. In fact, we expect over 35% of our new
business to come from outside the UK in 2005.
This acquisition will also have a positive impact 
on the Group’s value of new business and new
business margins, and will further diversify our
earnings through a business that is not capital
intensive, as single premium business without
ﬁnancial guarantees requires comparatively low
capital backing. The transaction is expected to
enhance the Group’s Achieved Operating Earnings
per share by a high single digit percentage. For
German tax change reasons, the very high volumes
of new business from Germany experienced by
Lombard in 2004 will not be repeated this year.
However, we expect overall new business production
to continue to expand as we pursue the opportunities
for growth in other areas of Europe and in selected
markets in Asia and South America.
F&C Asset Management
The key drivers of F&C’s long-term success will be
the ability to generate organic growth in proﬁtable
lines of activity. A proposition with strong investment
performance is central to our ability to deliver this.
Allied with an efﬁcient, scalable operating model,
these are the basic elements of a successful asset
management business. We have created an efﬁcient
business structure that centralises most of the fund
management activities and complements this with
local client servicing and sales support. Where we 
do have local fund management, it is because of 
a particular requirement to maintain a centre of
excellence in that region. It does not lead to
duplication. This allows F&C to gain economies of
scale, but still meet the needs of clients in various
European centres.
A movement into higher fee business lines will result
in increased proﬁtability providing it does not require
a more than commensurate increase in costs. Given
the historic client base of the business – with a high
proportion of insurance assets – F&C has lower
average fees than most of its competitors. However,
there has been a focus on raising average fee rates
and this will continue.
A key milestone in the merger is the creation of 
an integrated F&C fund range. This began with the
re-branding of the ISIS funds within weeks of the
merger completing. The combined fund range has
now been reviewed and rationalisation proposals
issued that, subject to investor approval, are on
target to complete by end of April 2005. Because ISIS had already concluded a major fund rationalisation
exercise in August 2003, this current project has not
required a programme of streamlining on the same
scale. Nevertheless, the proposals will see a range of
53 funds reduced to 47, of which 9 will only be
marketed to institutional clients. All of the OEIC
funds will be registered under UCITS 3, enabling
them to be marketed across Europe. A further aspect
of the exercise is that by moving the range to a
single administration platform, with International
Financial Data Services, signiﬁcant costs savings 
will be achieved. 
During the remainder of 2005 the integration of
information technology systems remains a key
priority. On past experience, this usually takes around
12 months to complete. Initially work has focused 
on ensuring that the IT infrastructure is sufﬁciently
robust to meet both the needs of the enlarged
business and our growth ambitions. The next phase
is to introduce business systems that enhance the
ability of the fund managers and others to work 
to maximum effectiveness. The approach is to 
select the best available system from each of the
two merged entities. 
Focus is now on the delivery of good investment
performance and innovative product solutions so 
that signiﬁcant organic growth can be achieved,
particularly in the higher margin areas. This means
investing in our capabilities whilst maintaining our
track record for efﬁcient business management.
Summary
Overall, 2004 was a year in which we took great
steps forward, increasing our presence signiﬁcantly
in asset management and international life business.
This, coupled with the strong fundamentals of our UK
life and pensions business, has reshaped our Group
for the beneﬁt of customers and shareholders, and
we look forward with real conﬁdence. 
Keith Satchell
Group Chief Executive
Annual Report & Accounts 2004 11
