 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT
 “WE HAVE DELIVERED ANOTHER 
GREA T YEAR OF PROGRESS 
TOWARDS OUR GOAL OF EARNING 
REVENUE FROM MUL TIPLE  
SELF-PUBLISHED FRANCHISES.”
DAVID BRABEN OBE
Founder and CEO
OVERVIEW
We have had our first full year with  
Elite Dangerous, selling over one million 
franchise units in the period. At the same 
time we have made great progress with 
our second franchise Planet Coaster, 
releasing its first and second ‘alpha test’ 
versions to the public towards the end of 
the financial year, with the third ‘alpha test’ 
version released since the close of the 
financial year. The expected full release  
of Planet Coaster has just been announced 
for 17 November 2016 at the time of going 
to press, and will mark the successful 
completion of our transition, with all 
development staff working on revenue-
generating franchises under our new 
self-published business model. We can 
then start on a third franchise as planned.
This year we earned substantially all our 
revenue from self-published products  
for the first time, with self-published 
revenue increasing by 13% and revenue 
from work-for-hire contracts falling to zero  
in the year as planned, other than trailing 
royalties. Headline revenue was £21 .4 million 
with deferred income of £2.2 million.  
The Group remains in a strong financial 
position with a net cash balance of £8.6 
million. As we continued our planned 
transition, we generated a pre-tax profit  
of £1.3 million and EBITDA of £4.9 million. 
We are pleased with the strong financial 
position of the business, having invested  
£8.9 million in our two major self-published 
franchises during the financial year (2015: 
£4.3 million), with an increased proportion 
of development relating to titles yet to be 
released to 51% (2015: 30%).
06 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 1
2
3
4
MARKET
The video games sector continues to  
grow significantly. In calendar year 2016, 
analysts predict that the global video  
game market will hit around $100 billion.
PC is the largest digital sales revenue 
generator by platform, with over 50% 
market share, followed by mobile, then 
console. The shift to digital distribution is 
already largely complete in the PC and 
mobile segments. Consoles are the only 
segment in which physical retail remains 
significant; this is also the segment where 
digital sales are growing at their fastest rate.
STRATEGY
Our transition to publishing our own 
franchises is the best way to maximise the 
benefit of our core skills, assets and our 
technological platform, COBRA, which 
enables both Elite Dangerous and Planet 
Coaster and future franchises to have a 
significant technological advantage. The 
Company’s focus is on developing top 
quality self-published PC and console titles 
for digital distribution, as together these 
segments represent the majority of the 
available market by revenue, and generally 
the audiences on these platforms value 
high quality games, and quality is one of 
Frontier’s key development strengths.  
We will also continue to create further 
franchises and games that benefit from 
work on existing franchises that would 
make use of our established expertise  
and / or IP in order to further build our 
revenue pipeline over the long term.
Our belief is that having all our people in  
our Cambridge HQ working together in a 
single building will maximise our operational 
efficiency. We will work toward this objective 
in the coming months and years. 
Going forward we will continue to grow the 
capacity and capability of our organisation 
in both commercial and development areas 
in order to further the successful evolution 
of our franchises. As part of this process, 
we will explore potential partnerships  
and licensing opportunities. We will also 
continue to review potential acquisition 
targets that could augment our capacity or 
add new capabilities and / or IP that may 
help us achieve our goals. We will endeavour 
to enhance and expand our franchises and 
grow their audiences using appropriate 
additional products, platforms, media, 
distribution channels, and charging models 
through investing in the necessary people, 
organisation, resources and infrastructure.
We believe that using our COBRA 
development tools and technology to 
facilitate the creation of innovative, strongly 
differentiated features for the PC and 
console audiences currently provides the 
best return on our investment. Whilst a 
publisher partner has in FY17 taken up  
two options under previous work-for-hire 
contracts to license COBRA to facilitate 
ports of existing games to new platforms, 
licensing our COBRA technology to new 
customers is not a current focus and 
remains a future strategic opportunity  
that we will continue to evaluate.
OPERATING IN LINE WITH 
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
T ransition to 
self-publishing
Repeatable model  
over multiple franchises
Elite Dangerous  
franchise
Planet Coaster  
franchise
10
Read more on page:
07 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S STATEMENT CONTINUED
PLANET COASTER
Development of Planet Coaster remains  
on track for launch in calendar Q4 2016. 
Planet Coaster draws on our extensive  
past experience in the ‘Tycoon’ genre,  
and in coaster park games, including  
the massive hit RollerCoaster Tycoon 3.  
We have now released three Alpha builds 
of Planet Coaster (the first two within the 
financial year). These have been very well 
received, and early indications are positive,  
with social media ‘footprint’ tracking 
significantly higher than Elite Dangerous  
at the equivalent time in the development 
cycle. Planet Coaster moves the ‘Tycoon’ 
genre forwards significantly, adding 
detailed creative building and a community 
hub to enrich simulation gameplay, and 
has captured the imagination of players 
already with a number of ‘Youtubers’ showing 
their experiences of building truly amazing 
structures within the game.
SUMMARY
We have delivered another great year  
of progress towards our goal of earning 
revenue from multiple self-published 
franchises. I would like to add my thanks  
to all at Frontier for their hard work,  
our investors for their continued support, 
and to our many fans around the world  
that continue to make it all possible. 
DAVID BRABEN OBE
Founder and CEO
6 September 2016
ELITE DANGEROUS
We have continued to support Elite Dangerous 
with regular significant expansions,  
and released Elite Dangerous: Horizons,  
a paid-for seasons pass of expansions,  
and Elite Dangerous: Arena, an immediate-
action player-vs-player component as a 
stand-alone entry-level game. These allow 
us to cover all main price points. We have 
also participated in price promotions on 
each of the distribution platforms we are 
using, making the game available to a 
wider audience than we would otherwise 
reach. We have continued to reach new 
audiences for the game by supporting new 
distribution channels and platforms such 
as Xbox One and Amazon as well as the 
first consumer Virtual Reality (VR) 
headsets, the HTC Vive and the Oculus  
Rift. Our investment in our own COBRA 
technology allowed us to benefit from e 
arly adoption of this new technology –  
for example, Elite Dangerous has been a 
leading title on Oculus Rift for both sales 
and play-time each and every month since 
its launch. All of this continues to build  
the franchise.
Elite Dangerous is now in its second  
year of release. The attach rate of  
Elite Dangerous: Horizons to the base  
game was initially lower than expected,  
but unit sales of the base game were 
higher at the same time. Horizons and  
the base Elite Dangerous game continue  
to sell steadily, helped by the regular 
updates. These updates add to the quality 
of the game, renew the interest of existing 
players, and also generate additional 
coverage resulting in new sales. 
The opportunity to become a breakout  
hit franchise remains, as the game 
continues to sell and we continue to focus 
on enhancements to further improve 
perceived quality and sentiment. We expect 
to continue to expand the player base over 
the next financial year, adding new content 
and increasing the audience.
08 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016 OUTLOOK AND CURRENT TRADING UPDATE
Trading since the year end, in what is a 
seasonally quiet quarter for the Group, 
has exceeded the Board’s expectations. 
Up to 31 August 2016 the Group had  
sold approximately 1.8 million franchise 
units of Elite Dangerous. The third  
Planet Coaster Alpha build was released  
in August, and up to 31 August 2016 the 
Group had sold approximately 50,000 
pre-order units of Planet Coaster.  
Net cash balance at 31 August 2016  
was approximately £8.4 million.
Since the year end the Group has also 
received £0.2 million of UK video game 
tax relief relating to its work for Amazon 
Game Studios. Frontier has submitted a 
further £0.7 million of claims related to 
Elite Dangerous which were not recognised 
in FY16, and will continue to submit claims 
for eligible projects at the appropriate 
time. See note 25 in the financial statements 
for an explanation of how this is treated.
Frontier remains at an early stage of the 
multi-franchise self-published model and 
therefore, although the Board believes 
Frontier’s strategy will deliver successfully, 
it is difficult to predict future outcomes 
with a degree of certainty and the Board 
expects Frontier’s results to continue to 
exhibit stepped characteristics driven by 
the timing of major franchise releases. 
In FY1 7 , following the successful completion 
of Frontier’s transition to generating 
self-publishing revenue from multiple 
franchises with the release of Planet 
Coaster , the Board expects the Group to 
be well placed – using the self-published 
business model maximises the return  
on Frontier’s core skills and assets,  
and two strong revenue-generating 
franchises will provide a good foundation 
from which to take further advantage  
of the significant opportunities available 
in the fastest growing segment of the 
entertainment industry. 
We plan to continue to increase the 
audience for Elite Dangerous via new 
distribution channels and platforms,  
and to further enrich the Elite Dangerous 
experience with new activities and new 
ways to play. The Board expects sales  
of Elite Dangerous to continue to build  
over the rest of the financial year as new 
players are recruited and adoption of  
Elite Dangerous: Horizons continues.
The results for the year will primarily  
be driven by the successful launch of 
Planet Coaster in November and trading 
over the holiday period. The encouraging 
performance of Planet Coaster pre-orders 
and the positive reception of the Alpha 
build give the Board confidence of a 
successful launch. We will support  
Planet Coaster post launch in order to 
grow the community of players over time.
Overall, the Board is confident and 
excited about the opportunities ahead  
in the coming years.
Note regarding the effects of the UK’s 
referendum vote to leave the EU:
The Board does not consider the UK 
referendum result to present any 
significant concerns for the business. 
Frontier has significant revenues from 
non-GBP sources, and exchange rate 
shifts therefore influence the Company’s 
finances. T o date the impact of the currency 
movements since the referendum has 
been positive, notwithstanding the 
Group’s policy of hedging half its forecast 
exposure in its most significant foreign 
currencies. The Company is expecting 
that all existing non-UK EU nationals 
currently employed in the UK by Frontier 
will be able to remain working for the 
Company, although at the time of writing 
there are no specific details available  
as to the impact of the vote. The Board 
expects that even in the case where a  
visa may be required, as Frontier is a  
Tier 2 visa sponsor the Company should 
be able to retain the services of its 
current non-UK EU nationals. Frontier’s 
approach to exchange rate volatility,  
staff availability and staff retention risks  
is set out in the Principal Risks and 
Uncertainties section on pages 20 to 21.
09 FRONTIER DEVELOPMENTS PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
