 02
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
I am pleased to present the results for the year ended 31 July 2008, 
a year of further growth for the Company, which has seen us expand 
our ten year exclusive agreement with the University of Sheffield 
and consolidate our position as one of the UK’s leading university, 
intellectual property (IP), commercialisation businesses.
We now have exclusive IP pipeline agreements with two of the 
UK’s top ten universities, the University of Sheffield (Sheffield) 
and Cardiff University (Cardiff) and own rights to more than 
£167m per annum of world class research in areas such as 
engineering, energy, medical technology (medtech), drug 
development, IT and electronics. As a result of this expansion, 
in July 2008, we changed our name from Biofusion to Fusion IP 
to reflect the nature of the Group’s expanded business and 
portfolio, which is increasingly moving to a more balanced split 
between medtech, engineering, energy, electronics and software.
In a difficult financial market we raised £2.1m (£1.7m net of 
expenses) through a Placing with institutional investors for our 
Fusion IP Sheffield investment fund and we remain confident that 
there is continued opportunity for expansion of our model in the 
UK at the appropriate time.
chairman’s statement doug liversidge cbe chairman We no W have a strong ip pipeline from 
Which the focus of our business is 
better balanced betWeen the longer 
term drug development companies and 
the quicker to market medtech, energy, 
engineering and electronics companies. 
“”
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   2 21/10/2008   15:47:00 03
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
The financials for the year, which were broadly in line with budget, 
are as follows:
  Losses increased to £5.0m (2007: £3.1m), which reflect the 
impact of a full year of operating activity in the Cardiff operation 
(2007 figures only included six months of operating costs in 
Cardiff) and an increase in the operating costs of our growing 
portfolio of spin-out companies, which due to our shareholdings 
in the majority of these being over 50%, are classified as 
subsidiaries with all their operating costs therefore taken 
through the Group’s income statement. Removing the operating 
costs of the subsidiary spin-out companies and the amortisation 
of the Cardiff IP rights, underlying losses increased marginally 
to £1.6m (2007: £1.4m). 
 Cash outflow before financing activities in the year was 
£4.2m (2007: £2.3m), of which approximately half was invested 
in portfolio companies, leaving cash balances of £6.4m as at 
31 July 2008, prior to the receipt of the additional £2.1m 
investment funds in early August 2008. 
Portfolio activity throughout the year was significant, with two 
equity-based exits, one exciting new portfolio company created 
and £2.8m invested (2007: £1.7m) in 17 of our portfolio companies. 
One portfolio company, CellTran, was put into administration due 
to the poor funding climate.
The Company’s latest portfolio company, Demasq, formed through 
the Cardiff agreement, is particularly exciting, demonstrating the 
quality of research at the university and how quickly this type of 
research can be brought to market. Demasq’s proprietary X-ray 
imaging software will enable clinicians to visualise the soft tissue 
in the knee from a digital X-ray and help the clinician to identify 
if a patient’s pain is caused by degeneration of their cartilage 
(osteoarthritis). In the US alone some 20m people visit their 
physician with knee pain, of which it is estimated 60% is due 
to osteoarthritis. 
Demasq’s KIS (Knee Imaging Software) product is on schedule 
for submission to the European and US regulatory authorities by 
the end of this year, with a projected UK and US launch in 2009.
During the year we signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) 
with Finance Wales, the investment arm of the Welsh Assembly 
government, which has more than £130m of investment funds under 
its control. Under the MoU we undertake to show Finance Wales 
all of our potential opportunities that originate at Cardiff and 
they have subsequently taken part in three portfolio company 
funding rounds.
We continue to have a co-investment agreement with NPI Ventures, 
which in 2007 was taken over by Citi. The Directors do not expect 
NPI Ventures to be investing in the portfolio companies for the 
foreseeable future. 
During the year Simon Oakland, the Non-executive Director 
representing NPI Ventures, left the Board and we would like 
to thank Simon for his support and excellent contribution to 
the running of the Company during his time with the Board.
We continue to have strong support from both our university 
partners and this support was strengthened in July 2008 when 
Bob Rabone, the Finance Director from the University of Sheffield, 
joined the Board as a Non-executive Director.
The year has been both a challenging and an exciting one for 
the Company and I would like to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support during this period. We remain totally focussed 
on creating value from our portfolio of companies and have 
now balanced the focus of our business between longer term 
drug development companies and quicker to market medtech, 
energy, engineering and electronics companies. We are confident 
that this rebalancing will generate exciting and fruitful results in the 
next financial year.
doug liversidge cbe chairman
8 october 2008
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   3 21/10/2008   15:47:00
