 3
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
This has been another excellent year for the Group and we 
now have more than 20 companies in our portfolio, employing 
nearly 250 staff (including executive and non-executive 
Directors); a well-balanced asset base of engineering, software 
and medical businesses at varying stages of maturity, growth 
and profitability. 
Our leading portfolio companies
The six leading companies in the portfolio are: 
Simcyp – software/science
Simcyp is a profitable Sheffield based company, which provides 
modelling and simulation technology and consultancy services 
to the global pharmaceutical industry. The company continued 
to grow strongly in 2010/11. The company expects to exceed 
its forecasts for the seventh year in a row, with unaudited 
numbers suggesting a 25% increase in turnover (2010: £4.7m) 
and 35% increase in profit before tax (2010 £1.7m). Retaining 
considerable cash holdings, the company is expected to show 
strong growth in the current year and beyond. 
Simcyp tools allow pharmaceutical and biotechnology 
companies to evaluate their medicines in the safety of a 
computer, prior to studies in humans. The Simcyp Simulator 
uses data which is routinely generated in drug discovery and 
development to model and simulate how a drug is absorbed, 
distributed, metabolised and excreted by the body, as well 
as providing information on its effects and any potential 
drug-drug interactions. Simulations, carried in virtual human 
populations, capture real-life variability, which allows clients 
to prioritise and optimise the design of clinical studies. This 
saves significant time and money in drug development. 
Simcyp also develops and licenses virtual animal models 
that can help to reduce, refine or even replace testing in 
laboratory animals.
Simcyp currently holds contracts with 16 of the 20 largest 
pharmaceutical companies worldwide, including the entire top 
ten, and during the year opened an office in Boston, USA to 
keep pace with its global expansion.
Fusion has a 20.8% (undiluted) shareholding in Simcyp.
Magnomatics - engineering
Magnomatics, Fusion’s Sheffield-based electric motor 
company, continues to grow strongly and has won prestigious 
new clients in the automotive, aerospace and defence sectors. 
Product development continues to advance on plan and 
turnover, on a like for like basis, is expected to grow by 100% 
during the 12 month period ending December 2011 (year-
ended July 2010; £0.8m).
Magnomatics develops high torque magnetic transmissions 
and ultra-compact magnetically geared motors and 
generators. The technology uses magnetic fields with high-
powered permanent magnets to replace the meshed teeth 
that normally transmit mechanical power in gear systems. The 
magnetic fields eliminate the friction of contacting parts. As 
such the technology requires little to no maintenance. There 
is no need for oil lubrication and gears are not “stripped” 
through misuse. Motion is transferred through air gaps 
between rings allowing for a quieter and smoother operation. 
The lack of friction decreases the need for cooling systems, 
while the technology allows for more compact packaging. The 
product offers dramatic new engineering possibilities ranging 
from efficient, gearless generators for wind turbines, to lighter 
and more compact motors for hybrid vehicles.
Magnomatics has signed various large development contracts 
with the Ministry of Defence so that defence equipment 
suppliers can assess the potential for its use within propulsion 
systems for future naval vessels. Also in this past year, 
Magnomatics was part of a consortium that won a £3m 
Department of Transport low carbon grant to develop an urban 
lightweight refuse collection vehicle that will halve carbon 
emissions of current best-in-class Refuse Collection Vehicles. 
In February 2011, Magnomatics announced its involvement 
in key research initiatives, with total budgets of over $25m, 
from which Magnomatics expects to earn £1.4m in the current 
period. Other research projects include two new EU initiatives 
in which Magnomatics will be working together with leading 
engineering companies Siemens AG, Volkswagen and Fiat. 
The focus of the projects is on the development of eco-
friendly, energy efficient vehicles including new concepts for 
urban driving and electric vehicles. 
In February 2011, Magnomatics appointed Dr. Michael 
Lloyd as Chairman. Dr. Lloyd was the former president of 
Rolls Royce Gas Turbine Operations and brings experience 
in key markets for Magnomatics including the defence, 
nuclear and aerospace sectors. He is a Fellow of the Institute 
of Engineering and Technology, Fellow of the Institute of 
Mechanical Engineers, Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical 
Society, and Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineers. 
Fusion has a 48% (undiluted) shareholding in Magnomatics.
Chief Executive’s Statement 4
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
Our leading portfolio companies continued
Phase Focus – software/engineering
Phase Focus, the Sheffield-based microscopy company, 
raised £0.9m at the end of July 2011 to expand its operations, 
grow sales and conclude commercial deals with its 
commercial partners. As a result of this investment Fusion’s 
stake reduced to 49.1% on an undiluted basis. This company 
is now held as an investment and is deconsolidated from the 
Group’s results going forwards.
The Phase Focus Virtual Lens eliminates the need for high-
quality lenses in microscopes by transferring the image 
production to a computer programme. This disruptive 
innovation is expected to revolutionise microscopy. The 
technology enables higher performance at a lower cost, 
eliminating the need for high quality lenses that have 
traditionally accounted for a substantial portion of the expense 
of high performance microscopes. It also generates new 
information that enables a range of novel applications. The 
Virtial Lens generates images from the diffraction pattern 
created when a specimen is illuminated. Potentially applicable 
to the full electromagnetic spectrum as well as to electron 
and other particle waves, the Virtual Lens has demonstrated 
significant interest in a broad range of applications from 
cellular assays and semiconductor and engineering metrology 
to X-ray and electron microscopy. 
The Company’s OEM software licensing model enables 
it to operate with relatively low overheads and low capital 
expenditure, which should translate into high margins. The 
Company is also now revenue generating, with commercial 
relationships with OEMs in several multi-billion dollar 
markets, including the $8bn contact lens market, the $2.1bn 
semiconductor metrology market and the $1.6bn electron 
microscopy market.
Fusion has a 49% (undiluted) shareholding in Phase Focus.
Seren Photonics – engineering
Based in Sheffield, Seren Photonics is commercialising 
its revolutionary highly efficient light-emitting diode (LED) 
technology that brings together nanoscience and fundamental 
physics to increase the efficiency by which a light-emitting 
diode (LED) converts energy into light. It increases light 
output creation from an existing LED wafer leading to either 
significantly brighter illumination or greatly reduced power 
consumption in the packaged device. 
In 2010 the LED market was valued at over $5bn and is 
forecast to increase to more than $12bn by 2013. Applications 
for Seren’s LED technology include backlighting for laptop 
computers, smartphones, flatscreen televisions, signs and 
displays and domestic and architectural lighting. 
Its seed funding round enabled the Company to build its first 
pilot scale high-brightness (HB) LEDs for showcasing to larger 
HB LED companies and the company is in negotiations with a 
number of global LED manufacturing companies.
Fusion IP holds a 48% (undiluted) stake in Seren. 
Diurnal – drug development
Diurnal, our Cardiff-based drug development company, 
completed a £335k funding round in August 2011 that will 
enable its lead product, Chronocort®, to continue its Phase 
I clinical trials. This follows on from the £0.6m raised in 
November 2009 and the £0.4m raised in November 2010. 
The company is due to complete its extended Phase 1 trials 
in early 2012, before embarking on Phase 2 trials prior to 
sale or licensing.
Chronocort is Diurnal’s lead product and it delivers 
hydrocortisone in a manner that mimics the body’s normal 
circadian rhythm (the body’s natural 24 hour hormone 
cycle) to improve the drug’s efficacy and reduce adverse 
side effects. This therapeutic approach has the potential 
to help patients with deficiencies in the steroid hormone 
cortisol namely adrenal insufficiency and congenital adrenal 
hyperplasia. These deficiencies require life-long treatment and 
Diurnal’s novel approach to drug delivery has the potential to 
drastically improve patients’ lives.
Chronocort has significant potential as the first circadian 
based formulation to launch in the market for adrenal 
insufficiency (including congenital adrenal hyperplasia), 
which is believed to be a market that exceeds $200m. 
Chronocort has already received orphan drug designation in 
the EU enabling 10 years market exclusivity post marketing 
authorisation in Europe. 
Fusion IP held a 43% stake in Diurnal at the year-end.
Asalus Medical Instruments – medical devices
Based in Cardiff, Asalus is developing a range of innovative 
medical devices that will improve the safety and efficiency  
of laparoscopic surgery. In December 2010 Asalus 
successfully completed a £510k funding round that 
will enable it to further develop its first three products: 
Innervision, Snugport and Surehold.
Laparoscopic surgery is a modern surgical technique in 
which operations in the abdomen are performed through 
small incisions, as compared to the larger incisions needed 
in traditional surgical procedures. There are several benefits 
to conducting laparoscopic surgery and, as a result, the 
number of procedures conducted using this technique has 
grown rapidly over recent years. Over 2 million laparoscopic 
operations per year are now performed in the USA alone. 
The market for laparoscopic surgery products is estimated  5
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
at approximately $18bn worldwide, growing 7-8% annually. 
Asalus currently has three lead projects in development,  
which it is looking to commercialise through partnerships  
with leading medical device companies.
The Company continues to achieve all of its key milestones, 
with particular interest being generated by its novel Innervision 
product. Innervision is an efficient smoke and steam 
clearance system which silently and continually clears smoke 
without the need for intervention by the surgeon. Asalus’s 
management estimates that Innervision could be used in more 
than 4 million surgical procedures annually. 
Fusion IP holds a 45% (undiluted) stake in Asalus.
Our portfolio rising stars
The following companies represent our potential rising 
stars. They are either fast growing, on the cusp of or already 
breaking through into profit, or with innovative technologies 
that are meeting development milestones and proving 
successful in the marketplace.
i2L Research – environmental testing 
Based in Cardiff, i2L Research is a fast-growing product 
testing and development centre for the pest control industry 
and agrochemicals industry across Europe. The company, 
which has offices in Newcastle and Cardiff, is expanding 
its operations into Europe, through its new offices in Czech 
Republic and Spain. 
During the year, i2L increased its turnover by 40% to  
£1.1m (2010: £0.8m) and its profits by 200% to £0.15m 
(2010: £0.05m). It is anticipated that this growth will 
continue in 2012.
Fusion has a 31% (undiluted) shareholding in i2L Research.
MedaPhor – medical simulation
MedaPhor is a Cardiff-based ultrasound simulation business, 
specialising in the development and sale of advanced, virtual 
ultrasound training systems for the healthcare service.
The company’s new ScanTrainer simulator is designed to 
teach all the core and advanced obstetrics and gynaecology 
ultrasound skills in a non-clinical environment, without the 
need for a patient to learn on and with minimal time from 
a tutor. By combining ‘real feel’ simulation, virtual patients 
with multiple pathologies and trainee feedback, the system 
enables a trainee to self learn the key ultrasound skills, prior 
to patient contact. This significantly increases a trainee’s 
speed of skill acquisition, because it removes the current 
constraints on training caused by the limitations of tutor 
resource and patient access. 
A range of diagnostic and image interpretation case studies 
have recently been added to the system, broadening the 
appeal of the system to the experienced practitioner.
Launched in 2010, the award winning ScanTrainer system has 
been sold into 12 UK hospitals and the company has recently 
made its first sales into the all-important US and European 
market. With distributors covering an additional eight countries 
in the Far East, the company’s sales pipeline is expected to 
grow in 2012. Further products in the ScanTrainer range are 
planned during the next 12 months.
Fusion has a 38% (undiluted) shareholding in MedaPhor.
Absynth – lifesciences
Absynth was founded in 2007 and is based in Sheffield. The 
Company is developing vaccine and therapeutic antibody 
candidates for the prevention and treatment of bacterial 
infections. The Company’s lead program focuses on infections 
caused by the bacterium Staphylococcus Aureus and the 
Methicillin-resistant form, MRSA.
Hospital-acquired infections are a serious healthcare issue. 
Patients acquiring infections in hospital stay on average two 
and a half times longer in hospital. Total costs of healthcare 
related infections to the NHS are estimated at £1bn per year, 
of which roughly half are attributed to the MRSA bug. Costs 
to the economy related to MRSA in the UK alone have been 
estimated at between £3bn and £11bn.
Absynth is continuing its license and collaboration agreement 
with the German-based biotechnology company, MorphoSys 
(the agreement was signed in September 2010). Absynth has 
received upfront payments and ongoing research funding 
together with future prospects for development-dependent 
milestone payments and long-term royalties. 
Absynth has six patent families on all targets involved in the 
vaccine and antibody programmes, with three granted patents 
to date.
Fusion has a 52% (undiluted) shareholding in Absynth and its 
results are consolidated into the group figures.
Mesuro – electronics
Mesuro is based in Cardiff and focuses on the development 
of solutions (Open Loop, Active Harmonic Load Pull) that 
provide performance improvements in the design and 
manufacture of RF (radio frequency) devices, microwave 
devices and amplifiers. Mesuro’s technology gives advantages 
to manufacturers such as: improved device efficiency and 
product performance; reduction in design cycles and time to 
market; and reduced power consumption. 6
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Our portfolio rising stars continued
The Company started generating its first sales in 2011 and 
has raised an additional £440k during this calendar year to 
support its sales efforts.
Fusion has a 47% (undiluted) holding in Mesuro. 
Our new portfolio companies
During the year we created one new spin-out company:
Perlemax - environmental engineering
Perlemax Limited was founded on the research of Professor 
Will Zimmerman, Chair of Biochemical Dynamical Systems 
at the Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering at 
the University of Sheffield. Professor Zimmerman’s invention 
enables the super efficient generation of micro sized bubbles 
of gas. This process can greatly improve the efficiency of all 
gas exchange, ranging from wastewater treatment to algae 
growth for biofuels. Perlemax is working with a number of 
engineers to incorporate its technology within processes in 
and outside the UK. Perlemax has started generating income, 
and made a small profit during its first year of trading.
Research pipeline potential
We continue to be excited about the depth and breadth of 
the research emanating from our two university partners. 
Both universities continue to invest not only in world-leading 
research programmes, but also the capital expenditure 
required to build world-leading facilities in which to conduct 
the research. Each university has received external recognition 
for the quality of its research output and attracts internationally 
renowned experts to lead its research teams.
We have strong relationships with the relevant academics and 
technology transfer teams at both universities and this ensures 
we have good visibility over research activities spend that is 
worth over £200m per annum.
Several other promising opportunities have been identified, 
at various points of the pipeline, on both campuses and 
our commercialisation team is working with the university 
and academics to identify the best market applications and 
business proposals for these new technologies in 2012. 
David Baynes
Chief Executive Officer 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
