 A ROBUST 
BUSINESS  
WITH 
STRONG 
RESULTS 
It has been another outstanding year  
for the Company and I am delighted to 
be reporting an excellent set of results, 
particularly in the largest part of our 
business – our Managed Pubs & Hotels.
Chief Executive’s Review
8
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 +5%
+2%
+2% 2014
2015
2016
+6.3%
+4.8%
+8.3% 2014
2015
2016
It has been another outstanding year for the Company  
and I am delighted to be reporting an excellent set of results, 
particularly in the largest part of our business – our Managed 
Pubs and Hotels. We are seeing the rewards of our continued 
investment programme and the emphasis we have placed  
on recruiting, developing, rewarding and promoting the best 
people. We do this to ensure that across the business we  
are giving industry-leading service.
Our long-term approach is underpinned by a consistent 
strategy, but we continue to seek new, exciting opportunities 
to build our business further – keeping the Brewery as our 
beating heart. We have purchased pubs in geographical areas 
where we have previously lacked a presence, introduced new 
premium brands that the consumers of today and tomorrow 
are seeking out and continued to develop our pub designs and 
the quality and creativity of our menus.
It has been a busy year for the property team, with the 
purchase of five new pubs for a total of £11.1 million. At the 
year end, our total pub estate comprised 191 Managed Pubs 
and Hotels and 200 Tenanted Inns.
The corporate investments we have made in recent  
years have also performed well. The Stable continues to 
flourish – with the addition of six new restaurants during  
the year. Cornish Orchards grew volumes and we increased 
distribution of Sierra Nevada, which has also opened new 
doors for the wider Fuller’s craft portfolio.
We found a new route to market in December 2015, when 
we acquired a 51% stake in Nectar Imports, a family run 
specialist wholesale business, for £2.7 million. This investment 
gives us an excellent new channel to independent craft beer 
outlets. Nectar has a similar ethos and culture to our own 
and, as with The Stable, it will continue to run as a standalone 
business under the excellent stewardship of founder and 
Managing Director, Fiona Jukes.
In 2012 our employees undertook training to the  
equivalent of 3,000 days. Just four years later that number 
has increased to 14,000 days. Across the Company, we  
now offer 14 development programmes and, in November, 
we decided that we would move early to apply the National 
Living Wage selectively, awarding it to colleagues who 
commit to one of these development programmes, 
regardless of age. We anticipate the direct and consequential 
financial impact of the National Living Wage on all staff 
wages in the current financial year will be around £2 million.
Our career path structure ensures that there is a plan which 
allows every Kitchen Porter to work towards becoming a 
Head Chef and every member of bar staff a route to become 
a General Manager or Operations Manager. In addition to 
this, we have a programme of training and development for 
our managers, to increase their skills and take them from 
junior management or team leader positions right through  
to Director. 
This commitment to our own people improves retention, 
which reduces induction costs, rewards hardworking and 
talented employees and ultimately provides exceptional 
service to Fuller’s customers. It has already delivered results 
with a high number of internal promotions during the period 
including two positions on the Fuller’s Inns’ Board. 
I am delighted that we picked up the award for Employer of 
the Year at the prestigious Publican Awards in March. The 
People Team at Fuller’s has worked tirelessly to improve the 
way we recruit, train, reward and recognise our people and 
this award is testament to that success. It was great to see  
our People Director, David Hoyle, and Group Development 
Manager, Dawn Browne, on stage to collect the award.
Tenanted like for like profits
+2%
Managed like for like sales
+4.8%
Overview  Strategic Report  Governance  Financial Statements  Additional Information
9
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 FROM A 
GREAT TEAM... 
TO REALISING  
YOUR DREAM
It’s our people that differentiate Fuller’s from the competition  
and we now have structured career paths from Kitchen Porter  
to Head Chef, frontline Team Members to General Manager  
and from Junior Management to Director. All our employees  
are encouraged to have a Personal Development Plan to map  
out their career ambitions. Realising a person’s potential and  
helping them achieve their dream is rewarding for everyone.
10
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 Fuller’s Inns
It has been another good year across Fuller’s Inns with total 
revenue from our Managed Pubs and Hotels up by 12% to 
£238.4 million (2015: £213.8 million) while total revenue  
for our Tenanted Inns was maintained at £31.5 million  
(2015: £31.4 million).
We purchased five new pubs during the year, including our 
only pub in the London Borough of Lewisham, The Lord 
Northbrook in Lee. We also purchased The Great Northern 
Railway Tavern in Hornsey, North London – another area 
where we are under-represented. We hope these footholds 
will pave the way to further appropriate acquisitions in these 
growing neighbourhoods. The other three pubs purchased 
were The Queen’s Head in Kingston, The King’s Head in 
Earl’s Court and The Sutton Arms in Barbican.
This year we invested £20 million on 18 significant projects 
and a number of smaller schemes, resulting in 121 weeks of 
closures – up from 108 in the prior year and a number we 
anticipate being higher still next year. As we refurbish our 
pubs, we apply a holistic approach, treating each scheme 
individually, creating a bespoke design and décor that is 
tailored to the local area and often taking the opportunity  
to reposition the pub within its local market. In addition,  
we always look to improve and enhance the kitchen and  
menu to further inspire our chefs.
Finally, one of the key ways that we protect our pub estate  
is by purchasing the freeholds of our sites and securing 
long-term leases so that we have a stable position from  
which to develop individual pubs. During the year, we have 
purchased the freeholds of three existing businesses –  
The Blackbird in Earl’s Court, The Barrowboy and Banker  
on London Bridge and The Stable in Poole. In addition, we 
have secured six new long-term leases on existing Fuller’s 
pubs in London.
Managed Pubs and Hotels
Our Managed Pubs and Hotels have had an excellent year, 
with like for like sales
1
 increasing by 4.8%, a rise in operating 
profit before exceptional items of 17% to £30.9 million 
(2015: £26.3 million) and an operating profit margin 
improvement of 0.7% to 13.0%. 
The pub and eating out market is continually evolving and 
critical to our success is our ability to create an experience for 
the consumer that is not only better than the competition, 
but is unique and is something our guests cannot get  
at home.
Food remains one of the key drivers of this performance, 
with like for like food sales
1
 rising 6.9%. We have continued to 
invest in the Fuller’s Chefs’ Guild programme – which is 
attracting new recruits and taking our existing chefs to new 
heights of culinary skill and creativity. We have supported this 
activity by enhancing the contracts of our chefs, which has 
also helped to reduce staff turnover. We have identified  
a need to improve recognition for our kitchen teams and, 
since the year end, have held our first ever Chef of the Year 
competition, which was won by Gavin Sinden of The 
Stonemasons Arms in Hammersmith in the over-25s 
category and Luke Emmess of The Still & West in Southsea 
in the under-25s category. 
Consumers are increasingly seeking more balanced, lighter 
dishes and recent successes include our Cornish Orchards 
cured and smoked sea trout and our tea and hop-smoked 
haddock. We have also developed a range of bespoke 
ice-creams with Laverstoke Park Farm and this includes 
interesting flavours such as cardamom ice cream, specifically 
created to accompany one of our best-selling desserts, Paul’s 
Chocolate Brownie. We develop these dishes, which are 
available Only at Fuller’s, as they provide a point of difference 
and reinforce our premium position, setting us apart from  
the competition.
1
 Like for like sales excludes The Stable
The ever-popular Shakespeare in  
the Garden series returned to our  
pubs last summer with a production of 
Romeo and Juliet. This most famous tale  
of passion was performed in 12 of our 
managed pubs to an enthralled audience  
of over 3,700 customers
Overview  Strategic Report  Governance  Financial Statements  Additional Information
11
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 348,400
344,000
334,100 2014
2015
2016
£56.9m
£80.7m
£38.1m 2014
2015
2016
Despite this success, we still have further to go and recent 
research showed that only one in four people associated 
Fuller’s with food – yet we have an 80% Net Promoter  
Score for our food overall. This demonstrates the potential 
opportunity we have to entice more customers to our pubs  
to try the dishes that are being invented, freshly prepared  
and served in our kitchens.
The rise in food sales is accompanied by growth in premium 
wine and coffee. This year we have seen rising wine sales 
across the board, but of particular note is Sancerre – where 
sales have risen by 40% in the year – and New Zealand 
Sauvignon Blanc, where sales are up in the Managed Estate 
by 49%. We serve a DOCG Prosecco, a cut above the DOC 
alternative that is available in the majority of pubs and casual 
dining restaurants, and sales of this are also up, by 36%. In 
addition, we sold 1.4 million cups of Brewer Street Coffee,  
a blend of coffee that is available Only at Fuller’s.
Our customers expect ever-more interesting designs and  
an environment that has been created with style, elegance 
and individuality. In January, we opened The Sail Loft in 
Greenwich Reach, a fantastic site with views up and down  
the river, right next to the Cutty Sark. This venue is the 
embodiment of all that is great about a Fuller’s pub, with 
its exciting range of beers and wines and an open kitchen 
producing stunning food, served by engaged team  
members, in an amazing venue.
Over recent years, we have reported regularly on the 
investments we have made in recruiting and developing team 
members and building the senior team of the future. It was 
rewarding last May to see Mark Fulton, who joined us as a 
frontline team member at The Counting House in 2004, 
promoted to Head of Operations – Hotels. 
While we have not added any bedrooms to the estate during 
the year, we have upgraded 99 of them. Accommodation 
continues to play a key role for us, although trading in our 
hotels has been more challenging with a drop in tourism 
following the Paris attacks, which has coincided with a large 
number of competitors coming into the market, particularly 
in locations close to our Central London hotels. 
We have also maintained our focus on search engine 
optimisation and the way we communicate with our 
customers through highly targeted emails that come directly 
from the pub – rather than from a head office address. 
Offers and content are personalised and our response rates 
are strong. This is a great way to promote events in our pubs, 
such as the excellent Shakespeare in the Garden series that 
saw Romeo and Juliet performed in 12 of our pub gardens 
during July, August and September to an enthralled audience 
of over 3,700 people.
There’s not much in life that’s better than 
a great pint or a refreshing glass of wine in 
a pub garden and as part of our ongoing 
investments we are designing some beautiful 
outdoor spaces for our customers.
Beer Company: total beer and cider barrels
344,000
Capital expenditure
£80.7m
Chief Executive’s Review continued
12
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 FROM HOPS...
TO HAPPINESS
Hops are a key element in the production of beer, imparting 
bitterness and flavour to the brew. We use a number of hops in our 
beers from all over the world. However, over 80% of our hops are 
grown and picked in England, mainly in Kent and the Teme Valley, 
Worcestershire. We also buy hops from America, Germany, the Czech 
Republic, Slovenia and, most recently, Australia and New Zealand.
The flavours from hops are many and varied – American hops tend 
to give big, bold, citrus flavours, while Australian hops give a more 
tropical fruit note. But if it’s floral or spicy notes you’re after, then 
you’re better off sticking to hops from good old Blighty.
13
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016  FROM APPLES...  
 T O AD VEN T U R E S
It’s been a busy time down in Duloe for  
the team at Cornish Orchards. Having  
increased capacity, we made more cider than 
ever before. During the winter, the Cornish 
Orchards Wassail kit proved popular, with mulled 
cider appearing on the bar of numerous pubs  
and even on the counter of the Fuller’s Brewery 
Shop in Chiswick.
There’s exciting things in the pipeline too 
with the launch of Cornish Orchards Blush  
on draught – a delicious cider with a hint of 
raspberries. So now it’s cider time all year round.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
14
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 It’s been a busy year for the Westside  
Drinks team with Frontier and Sierra  
Nevada gaining distribution and a high 
number of festival appearances. During  
the year, we attended the equivalent  
of 1,350 event days, reaching nearly one 
million potential customers at a range  
of events from Rooftop Film Club  
in Peckham to Hawker House in  
Canada Water.
In line with the growth of Apple Pay and similar systems, 
customers are always keen to find easier ways of paying and 
Flypay, a payment app which allows a customer to run, split 
and settle a bill with their friends, is now available in 18 of our 
London pubs. Most striking though, is how our customers 
have adopted contactless as their preferred means of 
payment. In November 2014, contactless transactions  
made up less than 25% of our card transactions and only 
represented 11% of value. Volumes have grown every month 
and today, contactless payments account for more than  
50% of all of our card transactions and 33% of value, helping 
improve speed of service at the bar.
The Stable has continued to expand and we opened six new 
sites during the year – Plymouth, Winchester, Southampton, 
Birmingham, Cheltenham and Cardiff. We also relocated the 
Bath restaurant to a higher profile site, which has increased 
customer numbers significantly. The new sites also have less 
exposure to the seasonality that impacts on The Stable’s 
heartland sites in the West Country. Since the year end, we 
have opened our first London restaurant, in Whitechapel, and 
this is a very exciting development for what is still a fledgling 
restaurant brand. Many of these new sites opened at the  
end of the third quarter, yet total revenue for the year has 
more than doubled, showing underlying growth in the more 
mature sites.
In line with our experience in the pub sector, The Stable 
customer also demands lots of choice, interesting flavours, 
premium brands and fresh, delicious food made with 
authentic ingredients. This is reflected in the fact that the 
Cider Tasting Board is the brand’s biggest selling drink and  
in the attraction of fresh, artisan pizzas made with local 
ingredients and carrying innovative names, complemented  
by a range of pies and salads. 
As long as we continue to delight our customers with our 
pubs, our food and our service, we will prosper as a business. 
We always strive to do better and although we already have a 
strong overall Net Promoter Score of 70%, up from 68% last 
year, we continue to seek ways to improve it further.
Tenanted Inns
Our tenanted business has delivered good results again  
this year, with profits
2
 rising by 2% on a like for like basis and 
average EBITDA per pub increasing by 2% to £83,000. Total 
operating profit before exceptional items is flat – mainly due 
to the move of some high volume sites to the Managed 
Estate in recent years.
We continued to invest in our Tenanted Estate, working with 
our tenants on schemes to reposition pubs, often to focus 
more heavily on food. These schemes are jointly funded by 
Fuller’s and the tenant and notable projects during the last 
year include The Bear & Swan at Chew Magna, where we 
created some letting bedrooms, and The Griffin in Brentford, 
where we utilised some redundant space to increase the 
trading area. We also sold four sites during the year that  
no longer fitted our long-term strategy. 
Our focus on ensuring our tenants have great access to first 
class training, cellar services support and motivated business 
development managers continues to drive success and this 
year both our key internal awards were won by Tenanted 
pubs. The coveted Griffin Trophy was awarded to The Rising 
Sun in Milland, Hampshire and the Master Cellarman of the 
Year went to The Star in Petworth, West Sussex.
The Fuller’s Beer Company
Revenue rose by 5% to £126.8 million (2015: £120.9 million) 
and while our beer and cider volumes for the year are down 
by 1%, operating profit before exceptional items remained 
level at £7.6 million. These figures reflect the shift in mix  
as we are selling more premium products in line with  
our strategy.
This year, the Beer Company team has focused on 
identifying new products and developing new routes to 
market to counteract our largest customer being taken over 
by another brewer. The development of Montana Red and 
Fuller’s IPA has enhanced our craft beer range and packaging 
beers such as Wild River, Frontier Craft Lager and Black Cab 
Stout into 330ml cans has given us access to new customers. 
Volumes rose at Cornish Orchards, making use of new 
capacity at Duloe, and we also increased distribution and 
volume of Sierra Nevada.
2
 Operating profit before exceptional items
Overview  Strategic Report  Governance  Financial Statements  Additional Information
15
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 Breakfast is a key meal of the day – both in the Brewery and out  
in our pubs and hotels. The Parcel Y ard at King’s Cross has some  
of the most interesting breakfast guests – normally large groups  
of stags on a Friday heading off for that last weekend of freedom. 
Once they served a Pope, three cardinals and 30 monks – but  
it’s a less religious affair in most of our pubs!
We continue to invest in our flagship brand, London Pride, 
which benefited from the Rugby World Cup last October. 
With the focus of attention falling on our London heartland, 
we ran a widespread outdoor campaign in the area on the 
theme Made of Rugby. This was brought to life through the 
London Pride Clubhouse – a fantastic sports venue in the 
City, heavily promoted through the Evening Standard. We 
have also further developed the brand’s Made of London 
campaign featuring shots of London Pride against iconic 
London locations and vistas.
Both Oliver’s Island, our golden ale, and Frontier Craft Lager 
grew sales and distribution during the year, with Oliver’s Island 
becoming our second biggest cask ale. Frontier meanwhile is 
now our second biggest brand, just three years after its launch. 
It has continued to grow in popularity with customers who seek 
out new flavours at street food festivals and other events and 
this resulted in the equivalent of 1,350 event days for Frontier 
during the last financial year, reaching an audience of 
920,000 potential customers. The activity was supported by 
an outdoor advertising campaign in the brand’s East London 
heartland including two street murals in Shoreditch.
Current trading and prospects
Our business is in excellent shape and it has been a solid start 
to the year. Like for like sales in our Managed Pubs and Hotels 
for the first 10 weeks of the new financial year are up by 2.7% 
against strong comparatives from last year. Over the same 
period, like for like profits in our Tenanted Inns are down by  
2% and beer and cider volumes have decreased by 5%.
The economy is difficult to read with the European 
referendum imminent, but while it is important to be aware of 
the external environment, we will continue with the exciting 
plans we have in place and our long-term perspective gives us 
the flexibility to react accordingly.
We will further invest in training our people and we will also  
be investing a record amount in refurbishing our existing 
estate, putting more focus on our delicious fresh food and 
continuing to attract new customers to our pubs. We have 
already completed seven major schemes in this current 
financial year including The Harpenden Arms in Harpenden, 
The Drayton Court in Ealing and The Ox Row in Salisbury, 
and four more are under way as of today with many others 
soon to follow. In addition, since the year end, we have 
purchased an additional 25% of The Stable, taking our  
stake to 76%.
As we look forward to the year ahead, we know that our 
long-term strategy, combined with the vision to address the 
needs of our customers and consumers of the future, will 
keep Fuller’s on the path of growth. By continuing to invest in 
our assets, our brands and, most importantly, our employees, 
we will continue to build a Fuller’s that delivers outstanding 
service to our customers, excellent careers for our people 
and good returns for our shareholders.
Simon Emeny
Chief Executive
9 June 2016
Chief Executive’s Review continued
16
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 FROM  
ROAST  
AND BAKE... 
TO A CUP  
OF WIDE  
AWAKE
Brewer Street Coffee is our own unique, Fairtrade-certified 
blend. We put as much effort into sourcing our coffee beans  
as we do brewing our world-class beers, which is why we went  
to the ends of the earth to create Brewer Street Coffee. 
17
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016
