 2
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to present our results for the year ended  
31 July 2011, a year during which our revenue and 
portfolio returns grew by 35% to £5.9m (2010: £4.4m) 
and profit, excluding subsidiary spin-out costs and 
amortisation, increased by 68% to £4.2m (2010: £2.5m). 
In turn our EBITDA during the year increased by 650% to 
£3.0m (2010: £0.4m).
The Board and Executive team have concentrated on 
progressing the development of our portfolio of companies 
and as a result, our portfolio has continued to mature and 
grow in value. With more than 20 companies in the portfolio, 
our strategy is to focus on the companies that have the 
greatest potential long-term value and the companies that 
are rising stars in the early stages of trading. Our aim is to 
ensure all these businesses have sufficient management and 
funding support from Fusion, such that they have long term 
operating security as well as the necessary drive and energy to 
ensure they keep growing in the future. This focus on success 
inevitably means there will be wastage in the portfolio and we 
are fully prepared to stop supporting companies that are not 
growing in value. To this end, one company ceased trading 
during the period.
Corporately, we continue to maintain a tight focus on our 
central overhead, whilst developing revenue opportunities 
through licensing activities. This means that the business is 
well positioned to maximise the enormous potential value in 
our portfolio companies and university research pipelines.
Our model
Research is the driver of innovation, wealth creation and 
economic prosperity. In the right environment, with the right 
management, research can be transformed into commercial 
innovation that generates significant value for not just our 
shareholders, but also the country as a whole.
Our exclusive IP commercialisation agreements with the 
University of Sheffield and Cardiff University give us long-
term, exclusive rights over the commercialisation of the 
world-class research being generated by these two leading 
universities. This research is worth over £200m per annum 
and we use our privileged access to this research to identify 
innovative technologies that have the potential to be high 
value businesses. To diminish the inherent risks associated 
with these early stage companies and technologies we apply 
strict investment criteria, combined with our technological/
entrepreneurial expertise, management experience and fund-
raising capability through all stages of their lifecycle.
Investment Partners
During the year, we have continued to develop our 
relationships with both IP Group and Finance Wales and these 
relationships continue to bear fruit. During the year IP Group 
invested in three portfolio companies and Finance Wales 
invested in four.
People
The sad and untimely death of Professor Tony Atkinson in 
June was a shock to the Group. Tony was a member of the 
Board since the Group’s listing in 2005 and was both a 
reliable source of advice and a good friend to all the Board. 
He will be greatly missed. 
In April our Finance Director, Tony Gardiner, left the Group to 
pursue other business interests. Tony has been a valuable and 
significant contributor to the Group since he joined in 2007 
and we wish him every success with his new company.
Outlook 
Our priority in the year ahead is to continue to focus on the 
growth of the portfolio and maximise value realisation, through 
trade sales or flotations, as appropriate. The Group anticipates 
it will need to generate additional funds during the year, and 
believes it can achieve this either through trade sale exits 
or dividends. However the directors continue to review all 
financing and resourcing options.
The value of our portfolio is growing and we anticipate 
we will be able to demonstrate this further in the current 
financial year, and remain focused on achieving our first cash 
realisation. We look forward with confidence.
Finally, I would like to thank all our stakeholders, including our 
university partners, and particularly our employees at Group 
and portfolio level, of which there are now nearly 250, for their 
unstinting efforts and support in the past year. 
Doug Liversidge CBE
Chairman
