 Chairman’s Statement
A CLEAR  
VISION  
AND A  
GREAT 
BUSINESS
It gives me great pleasure to announce 
another year of excellent results.  
This is testament to the strength of  
our management team, the commitment 
of our people, the fantastic business that 
we have built up over time and our ability 
to adapt and respond to changes in our 
customers’ expectations.
2
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016 It gives me great pleasure to announce another year of 
excellent results. This is testament to the strength of our 
management team, the commitment of our people, the 
fantastic business that we have built up over time and our 
ability to adapt and respond to changes in our customers’ 
expectations. Our total revenues have increased by 9%  
to £350.5 million (2015: £321.5 million) resulting in a  
rise in adjusted profit before tax of 12% to £40.9 million 
(2015: £36.4 million). 
I was delighted to read an article in The Daily Telegraph  
in March, which named Fuller’s as one of only 10 FTSE 
companies that had shown at least two decades of consistent 
share dividend growth. In fact our dividend has demonstrated 
continued progressive growth for over seven decades. We 
continue this trend with adjusted earnings per share rising  
by 13% to 58.35p (2015: 51.51p) and a rise in the full year 
dividend of 8%. It is our long-term vision and strategy that 
differentiates us from other FTSE companies, while it is our 
people that make the difference between Fuller’s and the 
competition in the pub sector.
Managed Pubs and Hotels have again been the star of the 
show with like for like sales growth of 4.8%, total sales growth 
of 12% and profit
1
 growth of 17%. This has been driven by a 
rise in like for like food sales of 6.9%, while like for like drinks 
sales have grown by 4.3%. The investments the team has 
made in the standard of our kitchens and the excellent  
Chefs’ Guild programme is driving this growth with our  
chefs producing some exquisite dishes.
We have continued to protect our long-term future by 
investing our money wisely, purchasing the freeholds of three 
more of our iconic sites and securing new long-term leases 
for a number of other key pubs in the London area. 
Our tenanted pubs have performed well, with like for like 
profits increasing by 2% and total profits
1
 holding level.  
The year has been one of great upheaval for tenanted 
businesses across the UK due to the Government’s Pub 
Company Inquiry, but we are well placed to compete  
in this ever changing marketplace. 
Meanwhile, at The Fuller’s Beer Company, total beer and 
cider volumes were down by 1% and the profit
1
 contribution 
remained level. 
As ever, the success of this year is due to an exceptional team 
of people. Throughout the Company, we have some of the 
best people in the industry. Not just within Fuller’s, but also  
in those businesses in which we have invested more recently 
such as The Stable, Cornish Orchards and Nectar Imports. 
All have a similar culture and a family ethos – as does Sierra 
Nevada, whose products we distribute throughout the UK.
This culture and the commitment made to developing our 
own people has led to a number of key internal promotions 
and it gives me great pleasure to see these people develop. 
Inspired by Simon, the team at Fuller’s is well-placed to 
continue to deliver good results through great pubs and 
wonderful beers and ciders.
Dividend
The Board is pleased to announce a final dividend of 11.00p 
(2015: 10.20p) per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ ordinary share and 1.10p 
(2015: 1.02p) per 4p ‘B’ ordinary share. This will be paid on 
25 July 2016 to shareholders on the share register as at 24 
June 2016. The total dividend of 17.90p per 40p ‘A’ and ‘C’ 
ordinary share and 1.79p per 4p ‘B’ ordinary share represents 
an 8% increase on last year and will be covered more than  
3.2 times by adjusted earnings per share.
Michael Turner
Chairman
9 June 2016
1
 Operating profit before exceptional items
3
Fuller, Smith & Turner P.L.C.
Annual Report 2016
Overview  Strategic Report  Governance  Financial Statements  Additional Information
