 www.fusionip.co.uk
04
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts
chief executive’s review d avid baynes chief executive During the year we have focussed on expanding our exclusive 
university pipeline agreements into new non-life science based 
research such as energy, engineering and electronics as well 
as generating value out of our existing portfolio of companies.
new university agreements In July 2008 we successfully raised £2.1m in very challenging 
financial markets, which enabled us to expand our exclusive 
agreement with the University of Sheffield and secure ten year rights 
over all their non-life science IP to include the commercialisation of 
all non-life science, research-generated IP .
When combined with our Cardiff agreement and our existing 
life science agreement with Sheffield, we now own the rights 
to more than £167m of world class research per annum. This is 
a considerable achievement and one that cements our drive to 
refocus the business, such that we have a spread of portfolio 
companies in all investment areas. 
Drug development now only makes up 30% of our portfolio, 
as we have focussed on expanding our portfolio into the quicker 
to market sectors that include medtech, energy, engineering, 
IT and electronics. Areas in which both Cardiff and Sheffield 
are generating significant world class research.
portfolio exits during the year
In October 2007 we achieved two portfolio exits from our 
Cardiff agreement – Cardiff Protides and Cardiff Biologicals, 
which were sold to Morvus, a privately owned pharmaceutical 
company specialising in the discovery and development of novel 
oncology therapies, in return for an 18% shareholding in Morvus.
In the opinion of the Board of Fusion IP , Morvus’ management 
team, with its business model and expertise in pharmaceutical 
development, has the capability to build a successful company in 
the provision of specialist oncology drugs. The Board believed that 
the sale provided the best opportunity for bringing Cardiff Protides’ 
and Cardiff Biologicals’ exciting lead compounds to market.
COMPANY DETAILS:
Name:  Asterion Limited
Year FouNded:  2003
uNIversItY PartNer:  Sheffield
FusIoN IP shareholdINg:  38%
WeB sIte:  www.asterion.co.uk
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   4 21/10/2008   15:47:13 05
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
portfolio uplifts during the year
As a result of the transaction with Morvus, we have been able to 
recognise a fair value uplift in the carrying value of our investment 
of £0.5m. During the year there have also been smaller uplifts 
following funding rounds in our portfolio companies Medaphor 
and Zilico (formerly Aperio Diagnostics).
portfolio write downs during the year
In May 2008 CellTran, the advanced wound care business in 
which we had a 16% shareholding, confirmed that it had been 
unable to raise the significant funds in the market that were 
required to progress the business.
CellTran went into administration on 30 May 2008. The value of 
CellTran had already been fully written down by the Fusion IP 
Board in previous financial periods, reflecting our policy of taking 
a rigorous approach to our investments in our portfolio companies 
and that where appropriate, withdrawing funding support where 
it is considered that financial returns do not justify it.
new portfolio companies created during the year
In February 2008 we announced the formation of Demasq, 
our first new spin-out company from our pipeline agreement 
with Cardiff.
Demasq is developing proprietary software that has the potential to 
revolutionise X-ray visualisation. Based on research carried out by 
Prof Hechmi Toumi, a specialist in the muscle-bone-tendon unit at 
Cardiff University School of Biosciences, Demasq’s first product 
will be its Knee Imaging Software (KIS) system. 
KIS has the potential to enable surgeons, radiologists, 
physiotherapists and GPs to visualise the soft tissue detail of the 
knee joint from a digital X-ray, detail which is currently only visible 
with MRI techniques or surgery. Demasq plans to file for US FDA 
approval of its KIS software via a 510K procedure by the end of 
2008 with an expected launch of the product in 2009. 
Knee pain is one of the most common medical complaints. In the 
US alone, there are over 20m physician visits due to knee pain 
each year. With at least an estimated 7m knee X-rays performed 
in Europe and the US annually, the market for KIS is potentially 
very large.
Fusion IP has a 47.5% shareholding in Demasq.
CASE STUDy:
AsterIon lImIted Asterion is a company which applies its core technologies to 
generate and develop long-acting biopharmaceutical products 
that can be administered less frequently than existing marketed 
drugs. Founded by Prof Richard Ross, Prof Jon Sayers and 
Prof Peter Artymiuk as a spin-out company from the 
University of Sheffield. 
Asterion’s technology is being applied to improve 
existing products in established markets. The company 
is focusing on developing third-generation therapeutic 
products that address unmet clinical and commercial 
needs in large markets where the targets are validated, 
the clinical development path is known and the commercial 
opportunity is clear.
The first generation biopharmaceuticals such as insulin and 
EPO were native, recombinantly-derived proteins needing 
frequent injections. The second generation products such 
as depot preparations and chemically modified (PEGylated) 
proteins require more complex manufacture but offer less 
frequent injections. Asterion’s third generation products have 
the advantages of simple manufacture, potent bioactivity 
and the potential for significantly less frequent injection.
If developed successfully, Asterion’s future products 
have the potential to be used to treat diseases such as 
anaemia, neutropenia, multiple sclerosis, growth disorders 
and autoimmune disorders. Asterion’s lead candidates, 
long acting (AFT™) growth hormone protein candidates, 
are partnered with the international specialty pharmaceutical 
group, Ipsen and are being developed for conditions 
including short stature and acromegaly, a disorder 
caused by excess production of growth hormone.
demasq is developing proprietary 
softW are that has the potential 
to revolutionise the global x-ray 
visualisation market. 
“”
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   5 21/10/2008   15:47:14 _0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   6 21/10/2008   15:47:27 07
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
summary of key portfolio company events 
during the year
magnoma tics Fusion IP shareholding
48%
Magnomatics, which is developing proprietary magnetic gear 
and novel electrical machine technology for the renewable 
energy, hybrid vehicle, aerospace and other markets, continues 
to attract significant interest from a number of key manufacturers 
in those sectors. The company is currently working on the design 
of pre-production demonstrators which have the potential to be 
lighter, smaller and more energy efficient than current motors 
and generators.
The company led a successful bid to the T echnology Strategy Board 
for a £600,000 project to investigate the use of its technology within 
hybrid vehicles which commenced in July 2008. The company’s 
activity is funded at 60% and the project includes Volvo Powertrain 
as a key partner.
In September 2008, the company successfully completed 
a £565,000 funding round involving White Rose Seedcorn 
T echnology Fund (£350,000) and Fusion IP (£215,000). 
The investment will enable the company to bring its novel technology 
closer to market.
Fusion IP has a 48% (50% prior to the September 2008 funding round) 
shareholding in Magnomatics.
phase f ocus Fusion IP shareholding
61%
Phase Focus, which is developing the world’s first “lensless” optical 
microscope, completed its first working prototype in July 2008. 
Prior to this in February 2008, the company completed a £600,000 
funding round involving White Rose Seedcorn Technology Fund 
(£200,000) and Fusion IP (£400,000). The company’s next milestone 
is the full proof of principle of the electron microscope technology, 
expected to be completed by December 2008. 
In September 2008, the company completed a further funding round 
of £250,000 involving Riding Early Growth Investment Company 
(Viking Fund) (£100,000), White Rose Seedcorn Technology Fund 
(£25,000) and Fusion IP (£125,000).
Fusion IP has a 61% (63% prior to the September funding round) 
shareholding in Phase Focus.
CASE STUDy:
BIohydrogen lImIted Biohydrogen was created in March 2007 from 
technology created by Prof Phillip Wright and his team 
in the Department of Chemical and Process Engineering 
at the University of Sheffield. 
Biohydrogen aims to develop an efficient, robust 
and economical method of producing biohydrogen 
via microbial fermentation without the classical technical 
barriers of needing light sources, a constant absolute 
anaerobic environment and slow microbial growth.
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   7 21/10/2008   15:47:29 08
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
summary of key portfolio company events 
during the year CONTINuED
biohydrogen Fusion IP shareholding
60%
Biohydrogen continues to develop its novel methods of 
producing commercial quantities of industrial hydrogen from 
waste sugars using genetically modified e-coli. The company 
has expanded its IP base and expects to reach its first target 
milestone of 3.1 mols of hydrogen per mol of glucose by the 
end of the 2008. 
During the year, Fusion IP committed to invest a further £175,000 in the 
company. In addition to this the company won a Yorkshire Forward 
grant of £75,000.
asterion Fusion IP shareholding
38%
Asterion is developing a range of third-generation therapeutic 
proteins with the aim of administering lower doses, less frequently 
resulting in fewer side effects than existing marketed drugs. 
The company has seven products under development including 
growth hormone (partnered with Ipsen who continue to invest in 
two programmes), erythropoietin (a treatment for anaemia), 
and granulocyte colony stimulating factor (needed to boost 
white blood cells e.g. after chemotherapy).
In September 2007, the results from the company were 
published in the peer-reviewed journal Nature Medicine. The 
article demonstrated that, in studies the new molecule developed 
by Asterion, promotes growth after a single injection and that 
growth continues over a minimum of ten days. Asterion believes 
that this data will allow the development of a long acting version 
of growth hormone. Current treatment for growth hormone 
deficiency requires daily injections of growth hormone to promote 
growth. The Asterion technology has the added attraction of a 
simple manufacturing process and applicability to other 
cytokine hormones. 
During the year, Fusion IP invested £350,000 in Asterion to 
accelerate a number of internal development programmes 
to extend the utility of the company’s platform technology.
In September 2008, Asterion announced that it had signed a 
Research and Option Agreement with Genzyme Corp., one of the 
world’s leading biotechnology companies, to develop a long-acting 
form of a non-cytokine protein. Under the terms of the Agreement, 
Genzyme will gain access to elements of Asterion’s IP portfolio 
surrounding a specific protein target and will perform research 
work designed to look at the creation of a long-acting and potent 
version of an undisclosed protein of mutual commercial interest. 
chief executive’s review contInued
COMPANY DETAILS:
Name:  Phase Focus Limited
Year FouNded:  2006
uNIversItY PartNer:  Sheffield
FusIoN IP shareholdINg:  61%
WeB sIte:  www.phasefocus.com
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   8 21/10/2008   15:47:32 09
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
axordia Fusion IP shareholding
49%
Axordia, one of the UK’s leading stem cell companies, 
continues to work in collaboration with the University of Sheffield 
and Lombard Medical Technologies, supported by a £0.9m grant 
from the T echnology Strategy Board, for the development of a new 
generation regenerative stent for cardiovascular disease that 
reduces restenosis and local inflammation. 
In addition, Axordia is a major partner in a project to cure Age 
Related Macular Degeneration (AMD), to which Axordia will be 
supplying clinical grade human embryonic stem cells in order to 
produce therapeutic “retinal” RPE cells. This project has funding 
of over £5m and plans to move into human trials in 2010. 
Axordia continues to generate new intellectual property, 
participating in the €12m European Commission “ESTOOLS” 
stem cell research programme and filing two new patent 
applications. During the year, Fusion IP invested a further 
£195,000 in Axordia.
simcyp Fusion IP shareholding
23%
Simcyp, a profitable pharmacokinetic modelling and simulation 
business, has continued to grow its share of the market with strong 
sales performance to the major pharmaceutical companies. Its 
results during the year confirmed this with the company recording 
a 53% increase in turnover to £3.1m and continued growth in 
profits. Simcyp is confident that this growth will continue during 
2009 as it expands sales of its simulation platform and consultancy 
services that enable pharmaceutical companies to model the 
fate of drugs in the human body before undertaking clinical 
testing programmes.
Predicting outcomes in virtual patient populations allows 
individuals at extreme risk from adverse drug reaction to 
be identified, and unnecessary drug exposure to human 
volunteers and animals to be minimised. The limitations of 
candidate compounds, including potential drug-drug interactions, 
can be assessed and managed prior to human clinical studies, 
allowing better focus of drug development resources. Simcyp’s 
clients form a Consortium which guides the company’s scientific 
development. This ensures that Simcyp’s products and services 
continue to meet, and exceed, industry need. Currently, 14 of 
the top 20 pharmaceutical companies worldwide are members 
of the Consortium.
CASE STUDy:
PhAse Focus lImIted Phase Focus was formed in 2006 to exploit the technology 
invented by Prof John Rodenburg, Prof of Semiconductor 
Materials and Devices in the University of Sheffield’s 
Department of Electronic and Electrical Engineering.
Phase Focus has developed a proprietary process that 
can generate high definition images of an object without 
the need for high quality lenses. The technique uses a 
novel iterative phase retrieval algorithm to generate both 
amplitude and phase images of an object and has 
applications in optical, X-ray and electron microscopy, 
amongst others.
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   9 21/10/2008   15:47:33 10
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
summary of key portfolio company events 
during the year CONTINuED
diurnal Fusion IP shareholding
60%
Diurnal uses its knowledge of human physiology combined 
with advanced proprietary formulations using approved drugs 
to provide novel treatments in endocrinology e.g. testosterone 
replacement. Diurnal’s product pipeline is based on optimising 
the drug delivery profile and treatment regimes of well established 
small molecule drugs that have known safety data and proven 
clinical efficacy rationales. This enables Diurnal to rapidly progress 
its products to critical clinical proof-of-concept milestones without 
the need for substantial pre-clinical development. 
Following the decision by Phoqus Pharmaceuticals plc on 
16 July 2008, to put its principal trading subsidiary Phoqus 
Pharmaceuticals Ltd (Phoqus) into administration, Diurnal 
terminated its licence to Phoqus for the commercialisation of 
its hydrocortisone product “Chronocort”. Subsequent to this 
event the licensed IP will be returned to Diurnal together with 
significant clinical data. 
The company is now in discussion with alternative development 
partners for the commercialisation of the hydrocortisone platform 
and to continue development of its testosterone and thyroid 
hormone programmes.
lifestyle choices Fusion IP shareholding
51%
Lifestyle Choices sells a female fertility test that helps give women an 
early warning of whether they are potentially at risk of having too few 
eggs to conceive a child. In November 2007, Lifestyle Choices signed 
an exclusive agreement with Repromedix, a leading independent 
fertility diagnostic laboratory based in Boston, to distribute the test 
in North America. 
In December 2007, South Yorkshire Investment Fund invested 
£150,000 in Lifestyle Choices. In January 2008, Repromedix 
announced that they had commenced the beta launch of the 
product and that they expected to complete the national launch 
by the summer. 
chief executive’s review contInued
COMPANY DETAILS:
Name:  Demasq Limited
Year FouNded:  2008
uNIversItY PartNer:  Cardiff
FusIoN IP shareholdINg:  48%
WeB sIte:  www.demasq.com
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   10 21/10/2008   15:47:34 11
Fusion IP plc
annual report and accounts 2008 www.fusionip.co.uk
In June 2008 Repromedix announced that is was in financial 
difficulties and that they were engaged in selling elements of their 
business to ReproSource, a new US fertility diagnostics company. 
Lifestyle Choices has been in negotiation with ReproSource since 
this time to agree a new distribution agreement for the product. 
In early October 2008 it became clear that these negotiations 
were likely to terminate and as a result the Directors believe that 
the likelihood of the product, continuing to be sold in the US is 
limited. With the low level of sales in the UK, the company is 
reviewing its options on developing its IVF Predictor test for 
the European market.
medaphor Fusion IP shareholding
35%
Medaphor produces innovative training products for postgraduate 
medical professionals including advanced tutorials for learning or 
improving ultrasound examination technique. The company has 
developed a prototype portable ultrasound simulator that enables 
ultrasound training of physicians to take place without utilising 
ultrasound machines, which are in heavy demand, or volunteer 
patients. The ultrasound simulator will enable trainees to perform 
virtual reality gynaecological ultrasound examinations, using a 
virtual probe that conveys the realistic sensation of contact 
with a live body. This technology has the potential to reduce the 
hands-on patient contact required to achieve full competence. 
In July 2008 Fusion IP and Finance Wales co-invested £75,000 each 
in Medaphor, which when combined with Medaphor’s £100,000 
grant from SMART Wales, the Welsh Assembly Government’s Award 
scheme to boost innovative or exploratory ways of solving practical 
problems, brought the total investment into Medaphor to £250,000. 
This funding will be used to further develop the simulator prototype 
for a planned commercial launch by the end of 2009.
d avid baynes chief executive
8 october 2008
CASE STUDy:
demAsq lImIted Demasq is a new company specialising in medical 
imaging software. Founded as a result of research 
carried out by Prof Hechmi Toumi, a specialist in the 
Muscle-bone-tendon Unit at Cardiff University School 
of Biosciences, Demasq’s first product is the Knee 
Imaging Software (KIS) system. 
KIS has the potential to provide surgeons, radiologists, 
sports medicine physicians and GPs with soft tissue 
detail of the knee joint, at less cost than conventional 
knee imaging technologies. It does so by providing the 
soft tissue detail, which is normally visualised only with 
MRI techniques, using plain digital X-rays.
The potential benefits of the KIS system are:
 earlier disease intervention;
 reduction in time to treat;
 cost reduction;
 improved accessibility to non-invasive diagnosis;
 risk-reduction;
 improved characterisation of disease progression.
_0_FIP_ar08_Front.indd   11 21/10/2008   15:47:34
