 Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer
SECURING  
YOUR WORLD
“Since 2013, the year in which we commenced 
the transformation of G4S, the Group’s 
continuing businesses have grown revenues  
by 15% and EPS by 45% while generating 
operating cash flow of £1.9 billion.
Our investment in organic growth, innovation 
and productivity is clearly evident in the 
Group’s improving performance and financial 
position as reflected in our 2016 results.  
G4S now has much stronger foundations, 
growing competitive capabilities and an 
attractive array of market opportunities,  
which underpin our aim of delivering 
sustainable profitable growth.”
4 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s review Strategy – transforming G4S:
Our strategy addresses the positive long-term demand 
for security and related services and our enduring 
strategic aim is to demonstrate the values and 
performance that make G4S the company of choice for 
customers, employees and shareholders. We aim to do 
this by delivering industry-leading, innovative solutions 
and outstanding service to our customers, by providing 
engaging and rewarding work for employees and by 
generating sustainable growth and returns for 
our shareholders.
The Group has materially improved its focus over the 
past three years and implements its strategy across two 
main business segments:
Secure Solutions, comprising:
• Security services, software, technology and systems
• Care and Justice services focused on custody, 
detention, care and rehabilitation in the UK 
and Australia
Cash Solutions comprising secure transportation, 
processing, recycling and storage of cash and valuables  
in domestic and international markets.
In 2013, we set out our strategy to transform G4S and  
I am pleased to report that in 2016 we made further, 
substantial progress in each of the key programmes in 
our strategic plan:
People and values:
Our people and values are critical to the successful 
execution of our strategy. We have been strengthening 
our organisation by investing in talent through 
recruitment, internal development, promotion and 
training. In 2015 449,000 colleagues participated in a 
global employee survey and in 2016 we used that 
information and feedback to engage actively with our 
colleagues across the Group. Since 1 January 2016, we 
have two new regions – Asia Pacific and Middle East & 
India (replacing Asia Middle East) which brought 
additional executive resource and focus to these 
important markets. 
In October 2016, Tim Weller succeeded Himanshu Raja 
as Chief Financial Officer. Tim is a highly accomplished 
executive with extensive commercial and financial 
experience in global businesses. Tim previously served  
as a non-executive director on our board and it is 
greatly to our advantage that he already has deep 
understanding of G4S and our transformation 
programme. I thank Himanshu for the contribution 
he made over the past three years. 
As a result of the very substantial investment made in 
recruitment, development and training since 2013,  
G4S today has a much stronger global leadership team. 
In turn, this places the Group in a stronger position to 
achieve our strategic goals in the coming years. During 
2016 we launched our new Group values. These clear 
values reflect the standards we set for the way in which 
we conduct our business. Through our behaviours and 
actions, we are working to embed these values in the 
culture of our organisation. I firmly believe that these 
values are vital to the long-term success of G4S. They 
are described in further detail on page 15.
Customer relationships and service excellence:
During 2016 we continued to embed a customer  
and market focussed approach to sales operations and 
customer service management. In addition to adopting  
a standard sales management system we have established 
a Net Promoter Score model across the Group to 
measure and respond to customer satisfaction scores 
(see page 20). Alongside these measures we continue  
to invest in strategic account management to ensure that 
we anticipate and serve our customers’ needs. 
Growth and Innovation:
During 2016, G4S won new contracts with an annual 
value of over £1.3 billion and total contract value of 
£2.5 billion. At the same time, we replenished our 
pipeline which now has an annual value of £6.8 billion 
and sustained average contract retention rates of 
around 90%.We expect demand for our services to 
PEOPLE AND VALUES
GROWTH AND 
INNOVATION
FINANCIAL AND 
COMMERCIAL 
DISCIPLINE
CUSTOMERS AND 
SERVICE EXCELLENCE 
OPERATIONAL 
EXCELLENCE AND 
PRODUCTIVITY 
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 5 grow by around 4% to 6% per annum over the medium 
term and we continue to see the benefit of investing  
in product and service development. Our technology, 
software and systems revenues grew strongly and  
now account for 13% of continuing business revenues. 
This included substantial progress with services such  
as Symmetry (integrated access control system) and 
secure integration, Retail Cash Solutions and Deposita 
(cash management). Further information on these 
solutions can be found on pages 21, 22 and 23. In our 
Secure Solutions business, technology-enabled services 
and solutions contributed over £1.5 billion in revenues 
in 2016.
Operational excellence and Productivity:
Our operational excellence and productivity 
programmes delivered further benefits, allowing us to 
continue to invest in product and service development 
whilst at the same time improving the Group’s profit 
before interest, tax and amortisation (PBITA). Some of 
our emerging markets businesses are at a much earlier 
stage in our transformation programme but in our 
developed markets we expect to extract greater 
efficiencies through the implementation of automated, 
lean business processes and we will be piloting this  
initiative in Ireland during 2017. 
Health & Safety:
The safety and wellbeing of our employees and those in 
our care is a key priority for the group executive team 
and the global leadership team. Our goal is zero harm 
and to achieve this we are striving to ensure that every 
G4S employee understands and complies with safe and 
secure working practices. We work in an inherently 
hazardous industry: many of our employees travel 
extensively and many are trained and deployed to 
protect our customers and their property. As a result, 
road traffic accidents and criminal attacks are inherent 
risks we face in delivering some of our services. We have 
therefore invested in considerable improvements to our 
health and safety policies, practices, training and 
resources across the Group. Whilst we have made 
progress in significantly reducing road traffic fatalities, we 
faced a sharp increase in both the number and intensity 
of armed attacks, particularly in our emerging markets 
Cash Solutions businesses. As a direct result of this 
increase, I regret to report that 47 colleagues lost their 
lives in the line of duty in 2016. We are working with 
peer companies and the police to mitigate these attacks. 
We pay tribute to the courage and service of colleagues 
who lost their lives and we remain committed to our 
goal of zero harm.
See page 10 for our  
business model 
>£1.5bn
Revenue from 
technology-
enabled services 
in continuing 
businesses in 
2016
G4S countries of operation
Security Operation Centres
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS: GLOBAL RESOURCE & CAPABILITY
6 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s review continued Financial and commercial discipline:
Since 2013 we have strengthened capital investment 
processes and we are applying capital with greater 
consistency and rigour. Strengthening our working capital 
management processes was a key priority for our 
finance and line management teams in 2016 and the 
weighting of operating cash flow in our annual incentive 
plans was increased accordingly. I am pleased to report 
that we saw a significant improvement in working capital 
management and operating cash flow in 2016.
We have also strengthened contract approval  
processes, whether they require significant capital 
investment or not. 
Portfolio programme:
Our portfolio programme has materially improved  
our strategic focus. Since 2013 we have divested 29 
businesses (with annual revenues of c.£1 billion and 
PBITA of £25 million), realising proceeds of £345 million, 
and a further 27 businesses (with revenues of 
c.£445 million) are being sold or exited. In 2016 we 
closed four businesses and sold a further 12, realising 
proceeds of £82 million, including £52 million in respect 
of the UK Utilities business and reached agreement for 
the sale of G4S Israel for £88 million. The impact on our 
2015 results from continuing businesses due to 
re-presentation of portfolio businesses is provided on 
page 34.
Performance:
Continuing business performance
Supported by the continuous investment in organic sales 
and business development, revenues rose by 6.3% to 
£6.8 billion. In addition, our investment in technology 
and innovation was clearly reflected in the favourable 
change in our revenue mix, with revenues from 
technology, software and systems now accounting for 
13% of Group revenues (2015:10%).
The combination of growing revenues and improved 
productivity saw the Group’s PBITA rise by 9.7% to 
£454 million, whilst earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 
15.9 pence per share. The increase in profit and more 
effective working capital management saw operating 
cash flow rise by more than 61% to £638 million.
Statutory results
Revenue growth was 10.6% and profit before tax 
increased by 279.5%. A more detailed review of the 
statutory results can be found on page 32, with a 
reconciliation to results from continuing businesses 
provided on page 33.
Net debt and dividend:
Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together  
with disposal proceeds of £82 million helped reduce the 
Group’s net debt to EBITDA to 2.8x (2015: 3.4x). In line 
with our intention to maintain dividends until net debt 
to EBITDA is below 2.5x, the board is recommending 
that the final dividend be maintained at 5.82p per share 
(DKK 0.5029), bringing the total dividend for the full 
year to 9.41p per share – unchanged from the 
previous year.
Outlook:
During 2016, the Group made good progress with its 
transformation strategy. We now have much stronger 
foundations, growing competitive capabilities and an 
attractive array of market opportunities. We believe that 
the long-term demand for our core services remains 
positive and that the Group’s transformation strategy 
will produce further performance improvements and 
underpin our aim of delivering sustainable, profitable 
growth. Finally, I would like to thank all of our colleagues 
across the world whose expertise and dedication to our 
customers and G4S is reflected in the substantial 
progress made by the Group in 2016.
Ashley Almanza
Group Chief Executive Officer
16.6
%
Increase in 
earnings from 
continuing 
businesses in  
2016
The scale and breadth of G4S is a key strength and 
our ‘One G4S’ approach will help us to achieve 
strategic, commercial and operational alignment 
and to maximise synergies – both revenue and cost 
– across the Group. We are striving for One G4S 
through consistency in the following areas:
• Brand and marketing
• Product and service development
• Sales and operating models
• Processes for line and support functions
• Common values and culture
ONE G4S
Watch the CEO Review online 
at www.g4s.com/investors
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 7 MEETING THE DEMAND
The world continues to face a series  
of divergent and emerging threats. 
Governments and companies require 
holistic approaches to ensure the 
security of their people and assets 
both at home and abroad. 
The evolving nature of terrorism, which continues to 
threaten societies outside insurgent strongholds, has 
elevated security risks and concerns in many parts of 
the world. The key trends are featured in G4S Risk 
Consulting publications.
The rapidly changing nature of crime, social unrest 
and political uncertainty has added complexity to the 
security needs of our customers around the world.
G4S offers a comprehensive range of security 
services and solutions (see pages 2 and 3) across a 
global footprint. 
We have invested and will continue to invest in 
technology, software and systems in order to provide 
innovative, reliable and efficient security solutions 
that help our customers respond to more complex 
and dynamic security needs.
In November 2016, Security 
Magazine published some of the key 
concerns and priorities of the top 
500 chief security officers in the 
United States:
• Asset protection, theft 
and investigations
• Workplace violence
• T errorism
• Business continuity
• Budget and funding
• Training and employee 
retention, hiring
• T echnology management
• Secure executive and 
employee travel
• Global Security Operations 
Centre management
• Cyber security
SECURITY 500 TOP TRENDS
8 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Market growth drivers Global security market by region 2010-2025 ($m)
Source: Freedonia World Security Services report January 2017 excluding residential security.
Asia Pacic North America Latin America
Eastern Europe Western Europe Africa & Middle East
2010 2015 2025 2020
0
20,000
40,000
60,000
80,000
100,000
120,000
For a more detailed description of G4S products 
and services please see pages 2 to 3. For G4S’s 
business model and its customer approach 
please see page 10.
5-6
%
Expected 
market growth 
from 2015  
to 2025 per 
annum
**
4-6
%
revenue growth 
per annum  
expected for 
G4S in the  
medium term
4 3 2 1
1. G4S 91
3. Garda 28
4. Prosegur 16
2. Securitas 53
4 3 2 1
1. G4S 44
3. Loomis 22
4. Prosegur 16
2. Brinks 41
44
91
41
22
16
0
20
40
60
80
100
Global presence
(No. of countries)
53
28
16
Secure Solutions
Cash Solutions
WELL POSITIONED TO MEET DEMAND
Strategic report
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 9
