 Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2016
04
STRATEGIC REPORT G F
CEO’S REVIEW
WITH IVAN TEH
Overview
In 2016, Fusionex worked towards and laid 
a very strong foundation for the future. We 
continued to invest in our crown jewels, i.e. 
our award winning Big Data Analytics, IoT 
and Artificial Intelligence (AI) offerings; we 
invested in geographical expansion to new 
locations; we strengthened our partner 
channel network; we also increased our 
brand awareness and marketing reach. All 
this and more has propelled the company 
towards a new level of international growth 
and opportunities. 
Winning a raft of awards and continuing 
our strong momentum, the Fusionex team 
worked in unison to exceed expectations. 
We  also welcomed new clients on board 
while maintaining a high client retention 
rate  thanks to the increasing adoption 
of our flagship Big Data Analytics product 
(GIANT). Despite economic concerns 
emanating from Europe and leadership 
changes in the United States, Fusionex 
has maintained its resilience, consistency 
and focus.
Humanising Technology
Fusionex has been making waves in 
industries beyond the typical reach of 
our counterparts. We believe technology 
has the ability to provide solutions in 
virtually every sector, ranging from the 
physical realm of manufacturing and city 
planning, the psychological realm of retail 
customer behaviour, or even the digital 
realm of financial risk management.
From an industry outlook perspective, 
IT spend is forecasted to maintain a stable 
trajectory this year. Global Research 
house Gartner has forecasted worldwide 
IT spend  to reach $3.5 trillion in 2017. 
Software and IT services spend is projected 
to grow to $357 billion and $943 billion 
respectively in 2017. 
Our upcoming, new and vastly improved 
Big  Data Analytics software, Fusionex 
GIANT (previewed in Community Technology 
Preview (CTP) mode in the fourth quarter 
of 2016), is a game‑changing solution. It 
features major upgrades and enhancements 
compared to its predecessor, which includes 
AI components that customers increasingly 
need in this data‑driven era. 
According to International Data Corporation 
(IDC), worldwide adoption of AI across a 
range of industries would result in 
AI  solutions expanding by a compound 
annual growth rate (CAGR) of 55.1% over 
the period of 2016‑2020. Such solutions 
are expected to drive worldwide revenues 
from $8 billion in 2016 to more than 
$47 billion in 2020.
Major use cases for AI and Big Data 
initiatives, which attract the most 
investment and attention, include but 
are  not limited to automated customer 
service agents, diagnosis and treatment 
systems, fintech, smart healthcare, smart 
manufacturing, smart cities and nations, 
marketing analytics and fraud analysis, 
just to name a few. 
To ride this next wave of the 4th industrial 
revolution, Fusionex continues to strive to 
make it easier for users at all levels to carry 
out data analysis, cognitive computing 
and  Artificial Intelligence via an intuitive 
interface, where users are able derive 
insights from their data by just asking 
pertinent questions – effectively talking 
and interacting with the software like 
one  would via a personal consultant or 
data officer. 
Riding on a strong wave 
of opportunity in 2017. Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2016
05
“ We chose Fusionex because they are experts 
in… analytics, databases and data warehousing. 
It’s been a good 6 years working with them 
and we look forward to another 60 years!” 
 Tom Gowallis Vice President, TNS Group
Throughout 2016, Fusionex GIANT has 
been  very well received by organisations, 
particularly from the retail, travel and 
hospitality, and financial services industries. 
In 2017, we target to release an exciting 
next‑generation version of GIANT.
Fusionex continues to make strategic 
investments in our research and 
development (R&D) to derive better 
ways  to  humanise technology, creating 
a  data‑driven culture for any individual 
or  organisation that it comes across. 
Staying ahead of market trends, our R&D 
team constantly looks at ways to make 
our  technology smarter and friendlier 
for everyone.
Our Achievements to date
We never rest on our laurels. Clinching 
awards and receiving valued recognition 
has spurred our team to strive for even 
greater achievements. We do not settle 
for being second best.
From a global front, Fusionex was cited as 
a vendor of interest in Gartner’s 2016 
Magic  Quadrant report, particularly in 
“Real‑Time Process and Operational 
Intelligence”. The numerous awards won 
by Fusionex in 2016 include winning the 
Outstanding ICT Company award from 
the  Asian‑Oceanian Computing Industry 
Organization (ASOCIO) for the second 
consecutive year.
2016 also saw the expansion and 
strengthening of the Fusionex Partner 
Network. Cloudera joined forces with 
Fusionex via a strategic partnership that 
allows both companies to extend their 
reach across the global marketplace.
These milestones form but a few of the 
many achievements that Fusionex has 
attained in the last financial year. 
Future Outlook
Amidst economic concerns and negative 
market sentiments, Fusionex more than 
delivered on its promises, grew steadily in 
2016 and was, yet again, ahead of market 
expectations and analysts’ consensus. 
The Group’s strong recurring revenue and 
solid customer base is poised to increase 
even further with the many new customer 
wins. We maintain our focus in constantly 
investing in innovation to keep our offerings 
exciting, fresh, and ahead of the market.
We see 2017 as a very promising year. 
If  we  capitalise on the opportunities 
appropriately; if we stay true to our 
course  of investing towards ingenuity, 
quality and innovation; and if we maintain 
our principles of being a forerunner and 
leader in our space, we are very confident 
that we will accomplish much more in the 
upcoming year and the years to come.
Ivan Teh
Chief Executive Officer
15 March 2017
