 2
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement
I am delighted to present our results for the year ended 31 July 2013. This has been a good year for the Group; we raised £20m  
in a placing in April; signed new university agreements with the Universities of Nottingham and Swansea; extended our excellent 
co-investment MOU with Finance Wales for a further five years; started five new portfolio companies and grew the carrying  
value of our investments by 26% to £25.0m (2012: £19.8m). Although revenue and portfolio returns were lower at £3.0m  
(2012: £4.8m) and profit, excluding subsidiary spin-out costs and amortisation, was reduced to £1.4m (2012: £3.2m), this has 
been a year of significant change for the Group. In addition to this, post year-end one of our key life science companies announced 
the successful progression of its Phase II Chronocort trials; a positive conclusion to these trials in 2014 will be a significant event 
for the Group.
It is well acknowledged that the UK needs to maximise the commercial benefit of the extraordinary science that emanates from  
its world-class universities. We believe that Fusion, with its access to some of the UK’s leading research-intensive universities,  
is well placed to generate some of the high technology growth businesses of the future.
Our university partnership model, extensive experience in business building, and IP sector expertise enables us to identify 
innovative research that has the potential to be a high value business that will benefit our shareholders, the university and 
ultimately UK plc. With over £20m of funds, four excellent universities, established relationships with a number of key co-
investment partners and a growing and diverse portfolio of exciting companies, we believe we are well placed to fulfil this vision.
Our priority in the year ahead is therefore to continue to focus on the growth of the portfolio and we look forward to the  
year with confidence.
Finally, I would like to thank all our stakeholders, including our university partners, investment partners and employees at both 
Group and portfolio level, for their unstinting support during the year. I was also delighted to see that during the year, our CEO 
David Baynes was awarded Executive Director of the Year in the Small Cap Awards, sponsored by the London Stock Exchange and 
others, which recognises the excellent leadership David has demonstrated over the last seven years in building Fusion.
Doug Liversidge CBE
Chairman 
