 3
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
This has been another strong year for the Group, as we expanded our university base, increased our available investment  
funds and accelerated the growth in the value of our portfolio. 
£20m placing
In April 2013 we were pleased to announce we had successfully raised £20m through a placing with existing and new  
institutional investors. The placing provided Fusion with the funding to:
•  access additional world class IP from an expanded university base;
•  ensure the Group has the financial strength to invest further in its key portfolio companies; and
•  continue investing in establishing new companies out of its expanded pipeline.
Growing university base
At the same time as the placing, we announced that we had expanded our university base with the signing of agreements  
with The University of Nottingham and Swansea University. 
These new agreements complement Fusion’s existing equity-based university agreements with Sheffield and Cardiff, by providing 
Fusion with access to IP, but without having to make on-going or equity-based payments. This structure provides a flexible 
partnership for both parties, and enables the university to access Fusion management and funds, while Fusion gains access to 
that university’s IP, without tying up equity or contractual service fees. 
It also enables Fusion to generate more start-up companies per annum and utilise our central resource more effectively. The  
new agreements allow for co-investment by IP Group, in line with the existing IP Group co-investment agreement.
The University of Nottingham
Nottingham is one of the UK’s top 10 universities, with centres of excellence in aerospace, advanced manufacturing, energy  
and biomedical imaging. It has over 40,000 students on its three campuses in the UK, Malaysia and China and as a member  
of the Russell Group is recognised as one of the UK’s leading research-intensive universities. In 2012 it generated over £100m  
in research grants and after the most recent Research Assessment Exercise (RAE) results in 2008, it was ranked 7th in the UK for 
its research excellence, according to the research power rankings produced by Research Fortnight.
Following the RAE results, 90 per cent of all research at The University of Nottingham was classified as of an ‘international 
standard’ and 60 per cent as ‘world-leading’ or ‘internationally excellent’. In 2008 The University of Nottingham was named 
Entrepreneurial University of the Year.
The University of Nottingham has a well-established technology transfer office, with close links with its academic community.  
To date the university has been involved in over 40 spin-out related companies and has a current portfolio of 30 spin-outs, of which 
16 have products in the marketplace.
Swansea University
We are delighted to expand our operation in Wales through the addition of Swansea University to our university portfolio. 
Established in 1920, Swansea University is a research led university. In the latest RAE, 85 per cent of its staff submitted for 
assessment were classified as producing research of an international quality or above and almost 50 per cent as “world-class” 
or “internationally excellent”. It has a number of excellent research departments, including the College of Engineering, which 
received a 5 QS star rating for the excellence of its teaching, the highest achievable. Its newly built Institute of Life Sciences 
is one of the premier research facilities in Wales and the largest university campus investment by the Welsh Government. The 
University also has a well-established technology transfer office. 
Since the announcement of these new partnerships, Fusion has been working with the Universities to identify the first 
potential investment opportunities and expects to be announcing its first new investments in Nottingham and Swansea  
over the next six months.
Although we are currently completing the integration of our newly established partnerships, Fusion remains committed to  
adding additional universities to its partnership portfolio in the longer term.
Chief Executive’s Statement 4
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Extension of the Finance Wales investment MOU
Following on from the successful investment MOU signed between the two companies in 2007, the new MOU continues the  
co-investment strategy for investing in opportunities arising from Fusion’s IP pipeline agreements with its growing portfolio of 
Welsh universities. 
This agreement provides Fusion with access to substantial additional funding for its portfolio of companies and endorses the 
success of the original agreement. To date Finance Wales has made 26 investments alongside Fusion totalling £4.9m in Fusion 
portfolio companies.
Portfolio highlights
We continue to have a well-balanced portfolio of more than 20 companies, in a range of engineering, nanotechnology, software 
and medical sectors. The companies are at varying stages of maturity, growth and profitability and nine of the leading companies 
in the portfolio are described below. 
Diurnal – drug development
Diurnal, our drug development company, spun-out from The University of Sheffield now based in Cardiff, had another busy and 
extremely successful year, with significant progress made towards approval of its lead product Chronocort.
The majority of the year was spent progressing Chronocort through its Phase II trial and post year end in September 2013, Diurnal 
passed a key landmark when it announced the trial had successfully completed the pharmacokinetic part of its Phase II CATCH 
(Chronocort As Treatment for Congenital adrenal Hyperplasia) clinical study. Chronocort is a modified release therapy that delivers 
hydrocortisone in a manner that mimics the body’s natural 24-hour hormone cycle, thus combating diseases caused by cortisol 
deficiency. Diurnal’s novel approach to drug delivery has the potential to significantly improve the lives of patients suffering from 
diseases such as congenital adrenal hyperplasia and adrenal insufficiency.
The CATCH trial is a Phase II study in patients suffering from congenital adrenal hyperplasia and is being run by the National 
Institute of Health, Maryland, US under a Cooperative Research and Development Agreement.
Chronocort has already received two related orphan drug designations from the European Medicines Agency, which afford ten 
years of market exclusivity after the grant of marketing authorisation in Europe.
Pharmacokinetic data from the first part of the CATCH study has been received by Diurnal. The CATCH trial will now continue until 
the end of 2013 so that further data can be collected to support a Phase III registration study of Chronocort. The full read-out of 
the CATCH study is expected during the first quarter of 2014, and subject to a successful outcome, Diurnal would then progress 
to a Phase III trial.
Fusion holds a 43% (undiluted) shareholding in Diurnal
Phase Focus – software/engineering
Based in Sheffield, Phase Focus has developed a novel ‘Virtual Lens’ which is a digital replacement for the conventional image-
forming optics used in imaging and microscopy. As well as eliminating the limitations and aberrations of conventional lens-based 
instruments, it can be exploited to visualise and quantify numerous specimen attributes such as surface topography, thickness 
and refractive index variations, or electric and magnetic field phenomena. Its current products include an Ophthalmic Lens Profiler 
that can measure soft contact lenses with unprecedented levels of resolution and accuracy; and an optical microscope used for 
stain-free imaging of biological cells. 
In February 2013, Phase Focus announced that it had entered into a Licence Agreement with Gatan, Inc. (“Gatan”). Gatan is 
the world’s leading manufacturer of instrumentation and software used to enhance and extend the operation and performance 
of electron microscopes. The Licence Agreement provides for joint development of a range of products, including a Phase Focus 
Virtual Lens “add-on” product for existing electron microscopes. Once fully developed, Gatan will market the product through its 
worldwide sales and distribution network. 
Fusion holds a 35% (undiluted) shareholding in Phase Focus
Chief Executive’s Statement continued 5
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Seren Photonics – electronics
Seren Photonics’s revolutionary new light emitting diode (LED) nanotechnology, developed by Professor Tao Wang from The 
University of Sheffield, has been shown in tests to greatly increase the efficiency of conventional phosphor-converted white LEDs 
and enable ultra-high bright green LEDs. The ground breaking nanotechnology can be deployed to significantly reduce ‘droop’ in 
conventional LEDs which means they can be run much harder and so reducing the number of die required per luminaire. It also 
means that the ‘Green Gap’ could be closed enabling efficient pico-projectors, destined for inclusion in future mobile devices such 
as cell phones and much more efficient colour-mixed white LEDs. In simple terms, Seren’s technology means that either for a given 
power consumption, much brighter LED lamps can be manufactured, or that for equivalent light output, the power consumption 
of LED lamps can be significantly reduced.
High brightness (HB) LEDs are set to replace incandescent lamps as governments around the world bring in legislation banning the 
manufacture and sale of incandescents and concerns increase about the poor light quality and environmental contamination fears 
from compact fluorescents. The rate of adoption is expected to accelerate as the brightness of HB LEDs increases and the cost of 
manufacture reduces.
Seren’s technology is targeted at the fast growing $13bn white light HB LED markets, such as back lighting for laptops and TVs, 
signs and displays, as well as domestic, architectural and street lighting. 
Fusion holds a 40% (undiluted) shareholding in Seren
Magnomatics – engineering
Our Sheffield-based electric motor company, Magnomatics, develops high torque magnetic transmissions and ultra-compact 
magnetically-geared motors and generators. The technology uses magnetic fields with high-powered permanent magnets to replace 
the meshed teeth that normally transmit mechanical power in gear systems. The magnetic fields eliminate the friction of contacting 
parts. As such, the super quiet, compact technology requires minimal maintenance; no oil lubrication and the gears can’t be “stripped” 
through miss-use. The product has the potential to offer new engineering possibilities ranging from efficient, gearless generators for 
wind turbines, to lighter and more compact motors for hybrid vehicles. 
In November 2012, Magnomatics successfully raised £2.5m to develop its novel products for the hybrid and electric vehicle market. 
It is active in a range of industries, including renewable energy, automotive, aerospace and defence, and has industrial development 
contracts with some of the world’s largest transportation/engineering companies for its PDD system. 
Fusion holds a 39% (undiluted) shareholding in Magnomatics
Asalus Medical Instruments – medical devices
Cardiff based Asalus Medical Instruments (“Asalus”), is developing a range of innovative medical devices that aim to improve the 
safety and efficiency of laparoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic surgery is a modern surgical technique in which operations in the 
abdomen are performed through small incisions, as compared to the larger incisions needed in traditional surgical procedures. 
There are several benefits to conducting laparoscopic surgery and, as a result, the number of procedures conducted using this 
technique has grown rapidly over recent years.
Over two million laparoscopic operations per year are now performed in the USA alone and the market for laparoscopic surgery 
products is estimated at approximately $18bn worldwide, growing 7–8 per cent annually. 
Its lead product is Ultravision, Asalus’s revolutionary surgical smoke clearing system for use in laparoscopic surgery, which 
successfully completed its ‘first-in-man’ trial in January 2013. The randomised, controlled, comparative study was the first use 
of the Ultravision device in patients, with the dual aims of assessing safety and performance. The trial assessed the use of 
Ultravision in 30 participants undergoing scheduled laparoscopic gallbladder removal at University Hospital Llandough (Cardiff & 
Vale University Health Board, Wales, UK). The results demonstrated that Ultravision was effective in maintaining a clear visual field 
throughout the laparoscopic procedure. This was achieved without the need to deflate the abdomen or release smoke produced 
during surgery into the operating theatre environment. In addition 77% of the procedures were completed without interruption 
compared to less than 1% in the control group that did not use Ultravision. There were no adverse events. The Company is 
currently seeking CE mark approval and is targeting European launch in Q4 2013.
Fusion holds a 44% (undiluted) shareholding in Asalus 6
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
MedaPhor – medical simulation
MedaPhor is a Cardiff based global provider of advanced ultrasound education and training for medical professionals. 
Its lead product is ScanTrainer, a virtual reality ultrasound training simulator, which combines ‘real-feel’ haptic simulation 
with real patient scans and curriculum-based interactive learning, to provide fast and effective ultrasound training in  
a non-clinical environment. 
These educationally driven training systems relieve the pressure and costs on service delivery within hospitals and training schools, 
by allowing doctors to learn on ‘real’ patients in their own time, through self-directed learning.
MedaPhor has had another excellent year of growth, expanding its sales in the US and Europe, with over 80 hospitals now using  
the system in eleven countries around the world. During the year MedaPhor signed distribution agreements in Germany and 
Holland and an exclusive Chinese distribution agreement with Tellyes Scientific, which will enable it to expand sales into the  
large Chinese medical training market. MedaPhor also launched its second product, the TransAbdominal ScanTrainer, which it hopes 
will open up the large, general medical ultrasound training market in 2014.
In February 2013, US based Riccardo Pigliucci joined MedaPhor as non-exec Chairman, to help drive expansion in the US.
Fusion holds a 39% (undiluted) shareholding in MedaPhor
i2L Research – environmental testing 
Based in Cardiff, i2L Research is a product testing and development centre for the pest control industry and agrochemicals 
industry across Europe. i2L has offices in Newcastle and Cardiff and has expanded its operations into Europe, through new offices 
in the Czech Republic and Spain. 
In October 2012, i2L acquired Baltimore based ICR Inc. from MGK of Minneapolis in the USA. The acquisition significantly expands 
i2L’s European based agrochemicals, biocide and regulatory operations into the USA, the world’s largest market for these services.
Fusion holds a 31% (undiluted) shareholding in i2L Research
Absynth – lifesciences
Absynth is a UK biotechnology spin-out company from The University of Sheffield, which has developed a distinctive, non-
conventional approach to developing vaccines and therapeutic antibodies based on identifying novel, conserved bacterial 
antigens that are essential and also antibody-accessible. Bacterial infections are a major cause of death worldwide, with 
microbial drug resistance being a significant contributing factor. 
Absynth’s target is Staphylococcus aureus, including its drug-resistant form MRSA, against which vaccines and antibodies of other 
companies have failed to show clinical efficacy. It is believed that Absynth’s approach has the potential to succeed where others 
have previously failed and that Absynth’s novel antigens offer broad potential against a range of bacterial infections and form the 
basis of its pipeline that includes vaccines to prevent Clostridium difficile and Streptococcus pyogenes infections. 
In July 2013 Absynth announced it had raised £850,000 (of which Fusion invested £450,000) to advance the Staphylococcus 
aureus programme to key pre-clinical milestones. The investment complements the £175,000 funding secured from the Biomedical 
Catalyst to further develop Absynth’s product pipeline.
Fusion holds a 43% (undiluted) shareholding in Absynth
Chief Executive’s Statement continued 7
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
FaultCurrent (FCL) – electrical power grid components
FCL, which is founded on the invention of Dr Jeremy Hall of the Wolfson Centre for Magnetics, based at Cardiff University’s School 
of Engineering, has devised a unique magnetic fault current limiter design that protects utility electrical distribution networks from 
unanticipated power surges. 
The need for fault current limiters is driven by a dramatic increase in electrical power system fault current levels as energy demand 
increases and more clean energy sources, such as wind and solar, are added to an ageing and already overburdened national 
electrical infrastructure.
Deployed in an electrical network substation, a fault current limiter is a smart grid system component that can help protect 
the grid by absorbing the destructive nature of faults, extending the life of existing network equipment and allowing utilities to 
defer or eliminate costly equipment replacements or upgrades. Estimates from Europe and the USA suggest investing in smart 
grid technologies, such as fault current limiters, can save billions of dollars in replacement cost, increase safety, reliability and 
power quality.
Unlike competing fault current limiters currently in service, FCL’s unique solution is designed to be a completely passive,  
‘fit and forget’ permanent magnet device, that requires no external power or back-up, recovers automatically when a fault is cleared 
and requires minimal maintenance.
FCL expects its first full scale system to be deployed for field testing at the end of 2014. 
Fusion holds a 47% (undiluted) shareholding in FCL
During the year we started five companies, however these are at the earliest, high-risk phase of their potential development and 
therefore may not all progress to later stage funding rounds.
Proflu is the latest application for Cardiff University’s Professor Chris McGuigan’s ‘pro-tide’ drug delivery technology. The  
most effective anti-viral drugs on the market all rely upon a slow and inefficient process within the cells called phosphorylation 
in order to become active against the virus. Creating a ‘pro-tide’ can allow a pre-phosphorylated version of the drug to be 
given, potentially resulting in a several hundred fold increase in potency. This technology could create a highly effective 
anti-influenza drug to combat one of the world’s biggest killers. During the yearly epidemics, influenza infects around three 
to five million people and kills around 10% of these, a greater threat arises from flu pandemics, which have occurred, on 
average, three times per century for the last 300 years, where the emergence of a new viral strain results in a death toll in  
the tens of millions. 
Extraject Technologies has been founded on the work of Professor James Birchall and colleagues in the School of Pharmacy and 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Cardiff University. Extraject exploits over ten years’ experience of designing and testing microneedle 
delivery systems to develop unique medical devices and processes which could allow new pain free treatment of a range of 
conditions. The Extraject technology aims to offer a safe and efficacious solution to patients through precise targeting of effective 
therapies to the appropriate locations in skin. Extraject is part-funded by a grant from the Technology Strategy Board.
PH Therapeutics is developing novel antibody therapies to treat the rare disease Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension (PAH), a chronic 
condition with high levels of mortality. Based on the research of Dr Allan Lawrie, The University of Sheffield, PH Therapeutics is 
developing therapeutics which address the underlying causes of the disease by blocking the action of proteins that play a key role 
in the development of PAH. PAH is caused by both constriction and thickening of the pulmonary arteries. Current drugs relieve 
symptoms by dilating the narrowed blood vessels but they are unable to reverse the progress of the disease because they do 
not address the tissue changes that cause thickening of the vessel wall. PH Therapeutics is developing a new class of therapy 
that specifically targets the cause of vessel thickening in order to both control and reverse this devastating disease. This would 
represent a major step forward in a disease area that is currently valued as a $3bn global market.  8
Fusion IP plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Wound Genetics is founded on the work of two leading academics at Cardiff University. Professors Keith Harding and Wen Jiang 
have discovered a unique “prognostic” gene signature that may allow patients with ‘hard to heal’ chronic wounds to be identified 
at first presentation. Such early identification of ‘hard to heal’ wounds enables early referral to specialist care and avoids potentially 
years of ineffective and costly primary care treatment. The test, currently in its early development phase, involves collecting 
and processing a tissue sample from the wound which is then used to determine the expression of certain genes indicative of 
a ‘healing’ or ‘hard to heal’ wound. The treating doctor could then use these results to provide different treatment pathways for 
those patients with ‘hard to heal’ wounds. The team is also exploring the use of the gene signature to identify novel therapeutic 
drug candidates by identifying inhibitors of genes that are active in ‘hard to heal’ wounds. The ability to accurately and effectively 
diagnose, treat and manage wounds is an enormous challenge for healthcare providers worldwide. The annual cost of caring for 
these patients in the UK is conservatively estimated at 5% of the total NHS budget.
Rhedyn (Bladder Cancer Diagnostics) is based on the latest research undertaken by Professor Ian Weeks and colleagues in the 
School of Medicine, Cardiff University. Ian’s previous work includes the development of chemiluminesence technology which is 
used in over 50 million tests annually and was named as one of the top 100 life-changing discoveries of the last 50 years. The 
new technology is being used to address the need for accurate non-invasive diagnostic tests for the detection and monitoring of 
bladder cancer. The fifth most common type of cancer, the disease often responds well to treatment but almost always recurs 
meaning that patients have to endure monitoring by repeated cystoscopy which involves the insertion of a fibre optic camera 
into the bladder through the urethra. This invasive and costly technique has limited accuracy, is unpleasant for patients and 
contributes significantly to the fact that bladder cancer management has the highest per patient cost of any cancer. Rhedyn is 
developing a highly accurate, non-invasive diagnostic test for bladder cancer (based on a urine sample) which should detect  
the presence of the disease within minutes.
Research pipeline potential
We continue to have extremely strong relationships with our partner universities and the depth and scale of the research activity at 
all four of our partner universities is strong. 
Outlook
As an innovator in the field of university IP commercialisation, we continue to work closely with our four research-intensive 
universities and investment partners, to ensure we maximise our ability to create world-class businesses from university research. 
With a number of our exciting companies moving towards maturity we look forward to 2014 with confidence.
David Baynes
Chief Executive 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
