 22 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Performance and dividend
Galliford Try delivered another record set of 
results in 2016, with growth across the Group. 
Throughout the year, Linden Homes 
benefited from a robust housing market, 
underpinned by supply shortages and ample 
availability of low-cost mortgages, and a land 
market that remained positive. We grew 
revenue and margins, as we rigorously 
focused on overheads and processes.
Prospects for Partnerships remain excellent 
with the UK suffering a substantial affordable 
housing shortage.
Construction markets continued to generate 
a pipeline of opportunities with better 
margins. While we saw some commercial 
clients delay contracts ahead of the EU 
referendum, and some public sector work 
has been slower to come through than we 
expected, we were generally encouraged  
by market conditions. The markets in which 
Construction operates are typically less 
susceptible to short-term fluctuations, and  
we expect the construction market to remain 
positive notwithstanding any short-term 
distortion, not least because of the substantial 
infrastructure renewal required in the UK. 
We recognise the importance of dividends  
to our shareholders. The Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 56.0 pence 
per share, an increase of 22%. Combined 
with the interim dividend of 26.0 pence per 
share, which was up 18%, this gives a total 
dividend for the year of 82.0 pence per share, 
representing growth of 21%. The final 
dividend will be paid on 23 November 2016  
to shareholders on the register at 28 October 
2016. With earnings per share of 132.5 
pence, the total dividend is 1.6 times covered. 
The result of the referendum to leave the  
EU inevitably created a backdrop of 
uncertainty for the new financial year. 
Although this resulted in share price 
reductions across our sector peer groups, 
and Galliford Try’s share price fell broadly  
in line with the sector, the Board remains 
confident about the prospects for the Group.
Chairman’s statement
“We have successfully managed a number 
of important changes to our Board and 
senior management over the last two 
years, allowing us to maintain our track 
record of performance and deliver further 
solid growth this year .”
Greg Fitzgerald
Chairman
Earnings per share
132.5p
+17%
Dividend per share
82p
+21% 23 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
Our values
Our values encourage us to work ethically 
and to the best of our abilities. They shape 
our approach to day-to-day activities  
and help us achieve our business goals, 
while ensuring we remain a good 
corporate citizen.
Excellence
Striving to deliver the best.
Passion
Committed and enthusiastic in all that  
we do.
Collaboration
Dedicated to working together to  
achieve results.
Integrity
Demonstrating strong ethical standards, 
with openness and honesty.
Strategy
The strategy we outlined in February 2014, 
which set out detailed Group and divisional 
targets to 2018, has served us well and our 
performance each year has been ahead  
of plan. Going forward we will likely follow  
a similar course, focused on achieving 
sustainable, disciplined organic growth.  
We are currently finalising our strategic targets 
for the period beyond 2018 and will 
communicate these in due course.
Setting objectives has a number of benefits. 
We want to be transparent and show 
investors what we think we will achieve  
over the next few years. I also believe we 
perform better when we have clear goals  
and that our ambition helps to attract,  
retain and motivate our people.
Board and Governance
This was a period of further evolution on the 
Board. As planned, Peter Truscott joined us 
as Chief Executive from 1 October 2015  
and I moved from Executive to Non-executive 
Chairman from 1 January 2016. As I 
announced in July 2016, I will step down  
from the Board following the conclusion  
of the 2016 AGM on 1 1 November 2016. 
In February 2016, we announced that Chief 
Operating Officer Ken Gillespie had decided 
to retire from the Group in 2017 . He stepped 
down from the Board on 31 July 2016 but  
he will remain responsible for specific tasks 
until his departure in 2017 . We thank Ken  
for his substantial contribution to the Group’s 
success and wish him and his family all the 
best for the future.
Galliford Try has a relatively new Board,  
with four of our five independent  
non-executive directors having joined  
us in the last three years, bringing fresh 
perspectives to our discussions. We have 
worked hard during this time to ensure  
the Board provides the leadership and 
oversight the Group requires to continue 
delivering strong operational and financial 
performance. It was therefore gratifying that 
our externally facilitated Board evaluation  
in March 2016 reported that we have  
a strong Board that is working well together.
People and culture
In addition to our new Chief Executive joining, 
there were notable changes to the executive 
team. Bill Hocking joined us from Skanska  
as Managing Director of Construction in 
September 2015. He became Chief Executive 
of Construction & Investments on 1 August 
2016, as part of the smooth transition of  
Ken Gillespie’s responsibilities ahead of his 
retirement. Andrew Richards left in April 2016 
after more than 15 years with the Group  
and its acquired businesses, most recently  
as Managing Director of Linden Homes.  
We thank him for his contribution and wish 
him well for the future. With effect from  
1 July 2016, Stephen Teagle has assumed 
the role of Chief Executive of the Partnerships 
business. From 9 August 2016, Tom 
Nicholson and Andrew Hammond were 
respectively appointed to the positions of 
Divisional Chairman East and Divisional 
Chairman West for Linden Homes.
Having the right culture is critical for success 
and we recognise the Board’s role in setting 
that culture and demonstrating the right 
behaviours. We were pleased to launch our 
refreshed Code of Conduct during the year. 
This provides a framework for everyone in 
Galliford Try, and those who work with us,  
to ensure everything we do is in line with  
our values, the law and our high ethical 
standards. Our values are the foundation  
our business is built on and we must continue 
to live by them to retain our reputation as  
an industry leader. More information about 
our culture can be found in Peter Truscott’s 
Q&A on page 5.
All businesses depend on their employees 
and Galliford Try has excellent people 
throughout the organisation. I have very  
much enjoyed my 35 years with the Group.  
I leave with a degree of sadness but I am 
confident the Group is in great shape to  
meet the challenges ahead. I want to thank 
everyone for their hard work and dedication 
this year, and thank everyone I have worked 
with over my career, together with all 
stakeholders, for their support.
Conclusion and outlook
While the EU referendum and the resulting 
uncertainty may cause some distortion of 
some of our markets, we are confident that 
the outlook remains positive for all three of  
our businesses. It may be necessary to  
make investment decisions in the short-term 
that reflect the current market conditions,  
but at the same time we remain confident 
about future prospects and continue to  
plan accordingly.
Greg Fitzgerald 
Chairman
