 Fusionex International Plc Annual report 2016
03
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
WITH JOHN CROFT
I am delighted to report on another very 
successful year for the Company during 
which, in spite of many global instabilities, 
we have seen significant traction with 
customers for our Data Analytics solutions 
whilst continuing to make substantial 
investments in our technologies to ensure 
we maintain our competitive edge.
During the year, our revenues grew by 
23%  to RM94.6 million, driven by new 
customer wins for our flagship end‑to‑end 
Data Analytics software GIANT. It is 
very  encouraging to note also that our 
customer  base continues to expand 
across  multiple sectors, including retail, 
travel, media, hospitality as well as 
the financial services sector, all of which 
offer  tremendous opportunities and 
demonstrates the extensive market reach 
for our product offerings.
As anticipated, 2016 was a year of significant 
investment for the Company as we put in 
place the building blocks for accelerating 
growth and positioning the Company 
to  be  able to take full advantage of the 
fast emerging opportunities for Big Data 
solutions, of which Fusionex remains one 
of the leading providers. The investments 
made, utilising the 2015 funds raised, were 
in anticipation that the Company would be 
willing to trade off short term profitability 
during this investment period to pursue 
mid to long term sustainable growth. In the 
event EBITDA achieved was RM15.4 million 
which was well ahead of expectations, 
demonstrating the quality of our team and 
their ability to carefully manage resources.
Our balance sheet remains very strong with 
cash and cash equivalents of RM94.2m 
aided by a significant improvement in days 
in trade receivables during the year. 
Unfortunately, however, the unexpected 
fall in the value of the Pound Sterling during 
the year did have an adverse impact on our 
bottom line, whereas in previous years the 
impact of currency fluctuations was positive.
Once again, the Company has been 
recognised by many trade bodies and 
associations as a leader in its sector. 
Fusionex was awarded the highly coveted 
Asian‑Oceanic Computing Industry 
Organisation (ASOCIO) Award for 
Outstanding ICT Company for the second 
year in a row. Additionally, Fusionex was 
awarded the PIKOM Leadership Excellence 
Award by the National ICT Association of 
Malaysia, as well as the Award for 
Outstanding Excellence by the Malaysian 
Retail Chain Association (MRCA). Fusionex 
also received special mention in Gartner’s 
2016 Magic Quadrant Report, where we are 
listed as a “vendor of interest” in Real ‑Time 
Process and Operational Intelligence.
We are constantly looking at ways to 
improve our technologies, particularly their 
ease of use and intuitiveness so that they 
become even more productive tools for 
users. This year we are launching our next 
generation Big Data Analytics 
software  solution, Fusionex GIANT 2017, 
and which we are confident will address 
the ever‑growing demand for data 
analytics in real business applications, as 
well as for Artificial Intelligence components 
in a world of increasing prevalence 
of  robotics, voice command‑activated 
technologies and even driverless cars. 
2016 was a year of continued growth, 
technological innovation and investment 
in our people and infrastructure. I am very 
pleased to report that the sales momentum 
we experienced in 2016 has continued 
strongly in 2017, and I am confident that 
this will be reflected in an ever‑improving 
set of results as the year progresses.
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank all of our staff for their outstanding 
achievements and hard work over the past 
year. I would also like to thank you, our 
shareholders, for your continued support.
John Croft
Non-Executive Chairman
15 March 2017 
The sales momentum 
experienced in 2016 has 
continued strongly in 2017.
