 24 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategy
Galliford Try has a successful strategy, which 
has delivered excellent growth in recent years.
Going forward we will be following a similar 
course, focused on achieving sustainable  
and disciplined organic growth.
We are currently finalising our strategy beyond 
2018 and will communicate this in due 
course. While we will factor in the result of the 
EU referendum into our strategy, and need to 
be mindful of the wider economic climate that 
may result from the referendum, we anticipate 
pursuing the same strategy of disciplined 
growth across our core business segments.
Fundamentally, we believe that the macro-
economic environment in all three of our 
businesses will be favourable. It may be 
necessary to make investment decisions in 
the shorter term that reflect any dislocation, 
but at the same time we remain confident 
about future prospects and continue to plan 
accordingly. The long-term underinvestment 
in housing and strategic infrastructure in  
the UK still exists regardless of any potential 
headwinds over the coming months, and  
our businesses are well placed to exploit  
the opportunities that will arise.
Sustainability
To implement our strategy, we need to have 
the right people. Galliford Try has many skilled 
and dedicated employees but strong market 
conditions mean demand for quality people  
is high and employee churn remains high 
across the industry. Over the last 12 months, 
we have continued to improve the way  
we recruit, develop and retain our people.  
This includes succession planning and talent 
management as well as effective reward  
and recognition. All of these factors, as well  
as simply being a good place to work,  
will help us to attract the people we need  
and to keep them within the Group.
We continue to bring the next generation  
of talent into the industry, taking on around 
100 graduates and trainees each year.  
Our challenging and rewarding graduate 
programme has made us one of the top 100 
companies – and the sixth best construction 
company – for graduates to work for.
Chief Executive’s 
review
“Galliford T ry has strong, complementary 
businesses and positive prospects in each 
of our markets.”
Peter Truscott
Chief Executive 25 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
Health and safety is always our top priority. 
While we maintained our Accident Frequency 
Rate at 0. 14 in 2016, which is in line with the 
industry average, we were disappointed not 
to have improved our performance, which  
I believe does not fully reflect the benefits  
of our significant work in this area. More 
information about our approach to health and 
safety can be found on pages 44 and 45.
We work hard to meet the needs of our 
customers and clients. We were therefore 
pleased that Linden Homes retained its four 
star National House Building Council (NHBC) 
customer satisfaction rating and increased  
its score from 80% in 2015 to 83.5% in 2016. 
Partnerships and Construction both seek  
to develop long-term relationships with  
clients and continue to receive high levels  
of repeat business. 
Conditions in the supply chain have eased 
this year and we are generally able to source 
the skills and materials we need. Our supply 
chain has a critical role in our delivery to 
clients and we continue to look for ways to 
work more collaboratively, such as through 
our ‘Advantage through Alignment’ initiative  
in Construction (see page 39).
Building strong relationships with local 
communities is important to us across the 
Group. As evidence of our commitment,  
we were delighted to win 30 Considerate 
Constructors Scheme National Site Awards, 
including three Gold awards.
Our environmental performance is also 
important. Reducing energy use and waste 
helps to cut our costs at the same time as 
lowering our carbon footprint. It also supports 
our ability to win work in Construction,  
where clients often look to their supply chain 
to help improve their own sustainability. 
Demonstrating this continued strong 
performance against environmental, social 
and governance benchmarks, we were 
pleased to retain our position within the 
FTSE4Good Index, and, furthermore,  
improve our score.
Outlook
The outlook remains positive for all three  
of our businesses. 
The construction market continues to  
provide a pipeline of opportunities, not least 
because of the substantial infrastructure 
renewal required in the UK. However, the 
speed of some work coming through in the 
public sector is slower than expected. While it 
is too early to predict how the construction 
market will perform following the EU 
referendum, our solid order book and focus 
on the public and regulated sectors give  
us a strong position going forward. We will 
remain disciplined in our approach. While  
it is desirable to maintain some scale of 
operations, we will always prioritise the  
quality of the order book over quantity. 
The prospects for Partnerships are 
considered to be excellent, with significant 
unmet demand for low-cost, intermediate and 
rented affordable homes. Further geographic 
expansion and the growth in mixed-tenure 
revenues will drive both the top line and 
margins in this business. 
The long-term underinvestment in housing 
and demand for private homes still exists 
regardless of any potential headwinds over 
the coming months. Linden Homes has  
a great brand, and is solidly positioned,  
with good locations and well-designed 
homes. We have the opportunity to grow 
further geographically, as we increase our 
presence in the North and the Midlands. 
While we continue to create developments 
that are designed to complement their local 
area, we are using more standard floor plans 
and processes to increase profitability. 
Overall, Linden Homes is well placed to 
exploit the opportunities that will arise.
Peter Truscott 
Chief Executive
ONE
Deliver disciplined growth 
by focusing on the quality of opportunities  
and prioritising margin over revenue.
TWO
Operate sustainably, 
recognising that health and safety and  
our people are our top two priorities.
THREE
Generate shareholder return 
by growing earnings and dividends,  
and carefully managing our balance sheet.
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Revenue £m
+10% 
1,576
2,431
2,670
1,559
1,851
2016 2015 2014 2013 2012
Profit before tax £m
+18% 
63.1
114.0
135.0
74.1
95.2
See our Strategy p14
