 GOOD GOVERNANCE IN SUPPORT  
OF SUSTAINABLE GROWTH
development and board succession planning. We place 
an ever stronger focus on risk management. Good risk 
management is fundamental to us delivering our strategy 
and it is therefore central to our decision making process. 
In 2013, we established a Risk Committee designed to 
ensure adequate focus was given to defining and 
embedding a new risk management framework within 
the organisation. In 2016, the need for this committee, 
which is separate from the Audit Committee, was 
reviewed. We concluded that the scale of the on-going 
transformation of the Group warrants the additional 
focus that a stand-alone committee devoted to risk 
provides. Of equal importance is good communication 
with our shareholders and to this end we hold various 
events throughout the year. Further information on the 
engagements that took place during 2016 is set out on 
page 68. The Company’s policy on remuneration of 
directors is set out on pages 80 to 88 of this report and 
a separate resolution to approve this policy will be put 
to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 
25 May 2017. No material changes have been made 
since the policy was last approved in 2014. We look 
forward to receiving shareholders’ support once again 
this year. 
Changes to the board
Effective boards need directors who bring the right 
balance of skills, experience and knowledge and are 
drawn from a range of diverse backgrounds. The work 
associated with changes to the board and succession 
planning were important elements of the Nomination 
Committee’s activity during the year under review.  
The work of the Nomination Committee during the 
year is described on page 69. 
As announced previously, Mark Elliott and Adam Crozier 
retired from the board at the conclusion of the AGM on 
26 May 2016. Mark Elliott, who had been a non-
executive director since 2006 and Senior Independent 
IN THIS SECTION
Board of directors 58
Executive committee 60
Corporate governance report 62
Audit Committee report 72
Directors’ remuneration report 78
Directors’ report 99
Directors’ responsibilities 102
John Connolly, Chairman
In his introduction to the Strategic 
Report, our chief executive officer, 
Ashley Almanza, outlined the substantial 
progress made during 2016 in 
implementing our strategy. Having been 
chairman for nearly five years, I am 
pleased to see that the transformation 
programme initiated by Ashley and his 
team in 2013 is delivering tangible results 
and has created a solid platform for the 
Group to continue to develop further. 
Our governance
Our governance structure, described in this report,  
is designed to enable the board to discharge its 
responsibilities. In leading the board I am keen to foster 
an environment conducive to rigorous challenge and 
open debate amongst board members on strategy, 
performance, risk, corporate accountability and 
sustainability. Our board performance, both collective  
and individual, is reviewed every year and this exercise 
allows particular focus on any area identified for further 
56 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s statement Director for nine years, handed over his role as 
chairman of the Remuneration Committee to John Daly. 
Himanshu Raja stepped down as Group CFO in 
October and was succeeded by Tim Weller - a former 
non-executive director of the G4S board and an 
experienced FTSE Chief Financial Officer. The board is 
grateful to Mark, Adam and Himanshu for their 
contributions during their tenure and delighted that Tim 
has moved into his new executive role within the Group. 
Over the last twelve months, two new directors - Steve 
Mogford and Barbara Thoralfsson - joined the board. 
Steve Mogford, who was appointed on 27 May, took on 
the role of Senior Independent Director. Barbara 
Thoralfsson joined the board on 1 July. In December we 
announced that Ian Springett, a serving FTSE CFO with 
extensive international experience, would join the board 
from 1 January 2017 and take on the role of chair of the 
Audit Committee. Unfortunately, due to the onset of a 
medical condition, Ian was not able to take on the role 
of Audit Committee chair, although he remains on the 
board and we look forward to his return as soon as 
possible. Paul Spence, who was already a member of the 
Audit Committee and had chaired the December Audit 
Committee meeting, was appointed as interim chair with 
effect from 20 January 2017. Paul, who also chairs the 
Risk Committee, has strong leadership skills and 
extensive experience of the complexities faced by 
businesses with an international footprint. 
The diversity of skills and experience brought by the 
new board members is already proving very valuable. 
Steve Mogford, a serving CEO and Barbara Thoralfsson 
both bring extensive technology and international 
business experience to the board. These appointments 
have undoubtedly added to the diversity of skills and 
backgrounds of the board. Succession planning and 
ensuring we have the skills required to enable the board 
to provide effective challenge and oversight in support 
of the continuing transformation of the Group is kept 
under constant review. 
Results
It is pleasing to be able to report on good progress in 
2016 with the management team working well together. 
As reported by our chief executive on page 4, 2016  
saw further substantial progress in implementing the 
Group’s strategy. 
Continuing business performance saw a 6.3% increase  
in revenue, which rose to £6.8 billion. It is worth noting 
the increased contribution of technology, software and 
systems, which represented 13% of Group revenues in 
2016 (10% in 2015). This increase reflects our  
continued investment in technology and innovation.  
The combination of growing revenues and better 
productivity generated a 9.7% increase in the Group’s 
PBITA to £454 million. Improved profit and more 
effective working capital management saw operating 
cash flow rise by more than 61% to £638 million. 
Earnings per share rose by 16.5% to 15.9 pence 
per share.
Growth in profits and operating cash flow, together  
with disposal proceeds of £82 million helped reduce  
the Group’s net debt to 2.8x (2015: 3.4x) and we 
remain on track to meet the target of 2.5x in the next 
12 to18 months.
The board is confident in the Group’s outlook and 
proposes a final dividend of 5.82p (DKK 0.5029)  
per share, payable on 9 June 2017. With an interim 
dividend of 3.59p (DKK 0.3143) paid on 14 October,  
this will bring the total dividend for the year to 9.41p 
per share (DKK 0.8172). 
Values
We recognise the value of a healthy corporate culture, 
which supports our strategic objectives and is not only 
an enabler and a differentiator (i.e. a source of 
competitive advantage), but also protects and generates 
value. It is important that our corporate culture is clear 
in its content and effective at all levels within our 
organisation. With this in mind, we embarked on an 
exercise to refresh our corporate values during 2016. 
The CSR Committee oversaw the process, reviewing 
progress and providing input at each of its meetings.  
This thorough exercise resulted in simpler values, that sit 
within a framework, which enables all employees across 
the Group readily to understand their relevance to our 
business and how they work together. 
The values are being embedded in our human resources 
processes from recruitment through to evaluation.  
Our 2017 global senior management and employee 
surveys will also be aligned to the new values. During 
the year, the board will have a number of opportunities 
to engage with employees across the Group and these 
meetings will give directors useful insight into how  
the values are embedding in the business. Further 
information on our values can be found on page 15  
and in our CSR Report 2016. 
People
With operations in around 100 countries and over 
585,000 employees, we are acutely aware that G4S is 
well placed to contribute positively to societies across 
the world. Our employees play an important role in this 
respect. On behalf of the board, I wish to thank the 
employees of G4S whose hard work and dedication in 
delivering services to customers in sometimes difficult 
and challenging environments is truly inspiring. 
John Connolly
Chairman
BOARD CULTURE
Creating and maintaining an effective 
board culture is vital to ensuring good 
decision making, healthy debate and 
challenge and also to set the tone for the 
rest of the organisation. A key element of 
the selection process for each new board 
member is to assess whether a particular 
candidate will bring the right level 
of challenge, independence and openness. 
The result is a board where members are 
both challenging but also supportive of 
each other. 
Culture features implicitly or explicitly in 
all discussions and interactions. We 
recognise that strong governance is an 
essential component of a healthy culture 
and that the board should set the tone 
for the entire organisation.
Governance
Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 G4S plc 57
