 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016 2
Our businesses at  
a glance
Linden Homes delivers around 3,000 houses and apartments each 
year, most of which are for private sale. We have a strong presence  
in the South and East of England, and a growing presence in the  
North and Midlands.
We develop homes on prime sites in good locations, close to  
transport links and local amenities. Our homes are built to meet  
the varying needs of our customers and designed to complement  
their surroundings. Through rigorous attention to detail, we create 
high-quality homes that earn industry awards.
We create sustainable developments, which include building 
affordable homes for sale to registered provider clients.
Linden Homes Galliford T ry has three strong businesses. 
Linden Homes develops private and 
affordable homes for sale throughout 
England. Partnerships and Regeneration  
is our regeneration business, working to 
increase the supply of housing across all 
tenures. Our Construction business is  
a major UK contractor , working across  
the public, regulated and private sectors.
Revenue
£841m
+8%
Profit from operations
£147.2m
+18%
See our Business review: 
Linden Homes p30 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2016
Strategic Report Governance Financial Information
3
Construction operates nationwide, primarily under the Galliford Try  
and Morrison Construction brands. Our network of regional offices is  
a key advantage, enabling us to deliver schemes of national distinction 
using a local approach.
The business is organised into the Building and Infrastructure divisions. 
It also includes facilities management, our multi-disciplined group of 
chartered surveyors and our national piling specialists.
Building 
Building serves a range of clients across the UK, with a substantial 
presence in Scotland. We work alongside organisations in the public, 
regulated and private sectors, and have a particularly strong presence 
in the health, education and commercial markets.
Infrastructure 
Infrastructure carries out civil engineering projects, primarily in the 
highways, rail, aviation, environmental, water and waste, and power 
and security markets.
Construction
PPP Investments 
PPP Investments specialises in delivering major building and 
infrastructure projects through public-private partnerships. The 
business leads bid consortia and arranges finance, making equity 
investments and managing construction through to operations. 
Partnerships and Regeneration is our specialist regeneration business. 
It has a strong presence in the South East, Midlands and North East 
England, and a growing business across the rest of the country.
We are a leading partner for the Homes and Communities Agency and 
provide contracting services to housing associations, local authorities 
and other registered providers, building vibrant, affordable homes and 
sustainable communities on their behalf.
Partnerships also develops mixed-tenure projects, providing private 
housing for sale on regeneration-led sites. We use the Linden Homes 
brand and draw on Linden Homes’ expertise in housing development 
and sales to successfully deliver these projects.
Partnerships and Regeneration
Revenue
£301m
-9%
Profit from operations
£11.7m
+24%
Revenue
£1,503m
+16%
Profit from operations
£15.8m
+1%
See our Business review: 
Partnerships and Regeneration p34
See our Business review: 
Construction p38
