 Braemar Seascope Group plc  Annual Report 2007     
Chairman’s statement
The Group is performing well and has posted results reflecting 
another good year. The adjusted pre-tax profits increased by 7% 
to £11.0m compared to £10.3m last year and adjusted earnings 
per share were 37.11 pence compared to 37.03 in 2006. Reported 
pre-tax profits were £10.1m (2006: £10.3m) and reported earnings 
per share were 32.29 pence. The difference between the adjusted 
and reported result was attributable to an impairment charge 
taken in the first half of £0.95m. 
The Group’s shipbroking operations benefited from trading 
conditions which remained generally favourable during the year 
and performed well though the results were adversely affected 
by a weaker US dollar. Continued newbuilding activity and an 
increase in long-term chartering business saw growth in the 
forward order book to a record level which helps to underpin 
future years’ earnings. We expanded our international footprint 
through the establishment of new dry cargo chartering offices  
in Singapore and Sao Paolo and we also consolidated our  
interest in the container market through the acquisition of 
the 50% minority interest in Braemar Container Shipping and 
Chartering Limited for £1.2m.
 
Our strategy for extending the range of shipping services 
provided has begun to bear fruit and our non-broking businesses 
contributed 17% of the adjusted operating profits, driven by 
strong year-on-year income and profit growth from both Cory 
Brothers and Wavespec. During the year these services were 
expanded with the creation of an environmental services division 
through the acquisition of DV Howells in March 2006 and Hi-bar 
in September 2006 for a maximum combined consideration of 
£0.9m. DV Howells provides pollution incident response services 
for the oil majors and other transportation companies and we 
are very proud of the role they played and their continuing 
involvement in the environmental protection of the UK coastline 
where the container vessel MSC Napoli is beached. We have also 
increased our presence in the UK ship agency market through the 
purchase of Gorman Cory which will take place over two years. 
We are pleased with the progress made in building our non-
broking businesses and we expect to continue to invest in these 
sectors as attractive opportunities arise.
The Directors are recommending that the name of the company 
changes to Braemar Shipping Services PLC. The name Braemar 
Seascope is identifiable with our shipbroking business and we 
do not intend to change the name for our shipbroking trading 
companies around the world. However, the Group has now 
successfully extended its services beyond shipbroking and will 
continue to do so. We have reached a point when we consider it 
both helpful and appropriate to recognise the broadening of the 
business with a change in the name which reflects its current and 
future composition.
The Directors are recommending for approval at the Annual 
General Meeting a final dividend of 12.25 pence per ordinary 
share, to be paid on 31 July 2007 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 6 July 2007. Together with the 6.75p 
interim dividend the Company’s dividend for the year is 19.0 
pence (2006: 18.0 pence), a rise of 5.6%. The dividend is covered 
2.0 times by adjusted earnings.
These results are a testament to the skill, hard work and 
commitment of staff across the Group and on behalf of the  
Board I thank all concerned for their contribution to this year. 
After many years as an executive director Iain Shaw retired from 
the Group in June 2006 and I would like to express our gratitude 
for his significant contribution both as a shipbroker and director. 
I am delighted that Denis Petropoulos and Quentin Soanes 
agreed to join the Board in January 2007 as executive directors. 
They have both worked for the Group for many years and their 
experience will be of great value in the future.
Shipping has experienced large and rapid changes in freight 
rates and vessel values over the course of the last five years. This 
volatility is likely to remain while the demand for seaborne trade 
continues to grow and we expect our broadly-based shipping 
services business to benefit while these conditions persist. 
Sir Graham Hearne
10 May 2007
“ All our businesses are 
growing and we are  
expanding our range  
of shipping services” 
Sir Graham Hearne 
Chairman
