 GAN plc Annual report and accounts 2016 04
CHAIRMAN’S  
REPORT
Dear fellow shareholders
During the course of 2016 the Group 
greatly expanded its market share in 
the United States, our key geographic 
market, by securing additional major US 
land-based casinos as clients of virtual 
currency-based Simulated Gaming™. On 
21 March 2016 the Group announced that 
it had successfully raised gross proceeds 
of £2.6m in new capital together with 
£0.5m announced 13 July and a further 
£1.3m on 24 August, in order to continue 
expansion of real money Regulated Gaming 
and Simulated Gaming™ opportunities 
in the US and for working capital and 
general business development purposes. 
Regulated real money Internet-based 
casino gaming in New Jersey grew 
substantially throughout 2016 despite a 
slower-than-expected market growth in 
2014/15. The Group has executed well 
and delivered operationally for Paddy 
Power Betfair plc in the New Jersey 
Internet gaming market, increasing a well-
deserved reputation in the United States 
for technical competence reflecting the 
reputation already hard earned in Europe’s 
toughest regulated Internet gaming 
markets of the United Kingdom and Italy.
In the neighbouring State of Pennsylvania 
the House of Representatives continued 
the political discourse on the subject of 
regulating Internet gaming and voted to 
approve Internet gaming only for the bill 
to fail to progress through the Senate. 
Pennsylvania remains widely regarded 
as the next most likely US State to 
regulate Internet gaming and the Group 
has operationally executed well for the 
State’s largest land-based operator Parx 
Casino, a client of Simulated Gaming™ 
launched in 2015 and continued to 
be successful throughout 2016.
Your Board of directors believes 
there are significant opportunities for 
continued growth of Regulated Gaming 
in New Jersey and other States and a 
significant opportunity for Simulated 
Gaming™ in the United States.
As in 2015, Simulated Gaming™ continued 
to outperform initial expectations in 
2016 and, in the absence of further 
State-by-State real money gaming 
regulation, Simulated Gaming™ continues 
as the centrepiece of the Group’s growth 
strategy. We signed five major land-based 
US casinos as new clients in 2016 with 
three US casino clients commercially 
launched in the same period. We remain 
excited about the prospects for Simulated
Gaming™ and the performance we have 
achieved since its initial launch together 
with the increasingly compelling business 
case Simulated Gaming™, suitably 
integrated with a land-based casino 
operator’s loyalty programme positions 
the Group for further growth in reliance 
on our US-patented iBridge framework, 
greatly supports our clients core business 
of on-property real money gaming. We are 
also confident in the long-term potential 
for real money Regulated Gaming, 
however, we believe intra-State regulation 
in the US market will continue to be 
slower than was originally anticipated.
2016 was a year of continued investment 
for GAN as we developed both our real 
money Regulated Gaming and Simulated 
Gaming™ offering, which would not have 
been possible without the dedicated and 
talented staff employed by the Group in 
both London and throughout the United 
States. I thank them for their continued 
efforts and believe the Group is now well 
established as a major Internet gaming 
technology, infrastructure and services
provider to land-based casinos in the 
United States, consistent with the strategy 
set out during the Group’s Initial Public 
Offering completed in November 2013.
After three years investing in our US 
market position we are satisfied the 
Group is now recognised as a leading B2B 
supplier of Internet gaming enterprise of 
software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions 
to the US land-based casino industry 
and believe significant shareholder 
value will develop going forwards as 
New Jersey’s Regulated Gaming market 
continues to grow and Simulated Gaming™ 
continues to be adopted by a portfolio 
of larger US casino operator clients.
Seamus McGill
Chairman, GAN plc
