 RELATED INFORMATION 
68 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DAVID HAMID
CHAIRMAN
David Hamid
Chairman
GAME Digital plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
08
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Our markets remain 
dynamic and fast paced.
Our task is to grow 
shareholder value by 
allocating resources 
to compete effectively 
in our current markets 
whilst prioritising rapid 
entry into new and 
complementary ones. It has been a challenging year for the Company given the 
declining UK console market. The business anticipated the 
likelihood of the slow down some time ago and has been busy 
developing its activities in some of the new markets that have 
been emerging. This has included an ongoing programme of 
small acquisitions that bring with them the technology and 
expertise to exploit these opportunities.
Markets
Our markets remain dynamic and fast-paced, impacted 
by well-established and rapidly emerging industry trends. 
Competition remains fierce. Our business is still largely driven 
by the games console cycle. This, however, appears to be 
changing to a more evolutionary model rather than the peaks 
and troughs of previous cycles. The outlook for new technology 
products such as Virtual Reality remains positive. But the 
transition to current console technology gave rise to tough 
market conditions in the UK in 2015-16, where UK hardware 
revenues were down 29% and software revenues were down 9%. 
Digital products have continued to gain in popularity and the 
pace of change is accelerating as developers and publishers 
seek to extend player engagement with major franchises 
through additional digital content. We are seeing, however, 
continued technology innovation, with new console hardware 
upgrades and the gradual introduction of Virtual Reality into 
viable consumer products.
Other key structural changes are happening across the 
market, including the rapid growth of online multiplayer 
gaming, esports and live gaming events. Each of these is 
further impacting our markets in some way, and whilst 
presenting some short-term challenges, represent major 
opportunities for the future.
Strategy
As markets change, we need to change with them. The rapid 
growth of esports around the world into a major stand-alone 
business is something we are focused upon. To this end 
we have made important strategic decisions over the past 
12 months, investing across all areas of the business. Our task 
is to grow shareholder value by allocating resources to compete 
effectively in our current markets whilst prioritising rapid entry 
into new and complementary ones. We have therefore spent 
considerable time developing and implementing our plans 
to grow our esports, events and digital businesses. 
Our retail diversification strategy around preowned phones and 
tablets and other new gaming lifestyle products is progressing 
well, with growth from these areas up over 30% in the year. 
Alongside this we have invested further in our digital and 
multichannel capabilities, helping to drive growth, both in our 
share of the online channel, and in our sales of digital products. 
In the year we have acquired two small digital businesses. 
First, in February 2016 we acquired SocialNAT – a leading 
esports platform in Spain, which is helping us accelerate our 
esports activities in the region. In addition, the Group acquired 
Ads Reality in May 2016 – an Augmented Reality technology 
business, which is helping the business to develop differentiated 
digital engagement tools for its customers and suppliers. 
Financial results for the 53 weeks ended 30 July 2016
Overall, Group revenues were down on the previous year, with 
Gross Transaction Values down 4.1%. The Group continues to 
focus upon strong cost control, however further investment in 
our strategic growth initiatives across the business resulted 
in a rise in continuing costs. As a result the Group’s Adjusted 
EBITDA fell to £28.0 million (2015: £46.9 million) and the Group’s 
profit before tax was £4.9 million (2015: £25.8 million).
The Group continues to maintain a strong balance sheet, 
ending the year with a cash position (net of overdrafts) of 
over £43 million (2015: £63.1 million). In July 2016, we agreed 
a new four and a half year financing facility, providing us with 
up to £75 million borrowing capacity in the UK, and renewed 
and enlarged our facilities in Spain.
We understand the importance of the dividend to our 
shareholders and reflecting our confidence in the Group’s 
strategic direction, but mindful of the wider market conditions, 
the Board proposes a final dividend of 1.75p per share (2015: 7.35p). 
This will result in full year ordinary dividends of 3.42p per share 
(2015: 14.7p).
Board
This year saw Mark Gifford, our new Chief Financial Officer, 
join the Board on 1 October 2015. With over 20 years of retail 
experience, Mark has already made a significant positive impact 
on the Group, bringing invaluable retail sector knowledge, 
financial management and strategic thinking.
People
Once again I would like pay tribute to our people. I want to 
recognise how hard our colleagues have worked during the 
past year and thank them for their dedication and contribution 
over the last 12 months and during my time as Chairman. There 
is no doubt that our future success lies in those people and the 
culture that binds them together. GAME Digital is a remarkable 
place to work and employs remarkable people. 
I will be stepping down as Chairman after the Annual General 
Meeting in January 2017, and I am delighted that John Jackson 
will be appointed as the new Chairman. It has been a privilege 
to serve the Group as Chairman for the last four and a half years 
and I want to thank all our shareholders, colleagues and 
partners for their commitment and support over that period. 
John, Martyn, the Board and the GAME Digital teams are 
committed to growing the Group and delivering significant 
value for our shareholders, and I wish them every success.
GAME Digital plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
09
Overview Strategic report Governance Results Shareholder information
