 GAN plc Annual report and accounts 2016 10
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S  
REPORT
Overview
GAN is now a leading B2B supplier 
of Internet gaming enterprise of 
software-as-a-service (SaaS) solutions 
to the US land-based casino industry 
and has secured significant
US market share within this Industry 
vertical. 2016 was our third year of 
continued and necessary investment 
opening the Group to major commercial 
opportunities for real money Regulated 
Gaming in New Jersey and Simulated 
Gaming™, which are expected to 
deliver significant shareholder 
value in 2017 and beyond.
This substantial investment has been 
made in the US operational structure 
to develop the Group’s US presence 
in both real money Regulated Gaming 
and Simulated Gaming™ markets. In 
the UK further substantial investment 
has been made in the Group’s software 
technology and its capability to deliver 
both Simulated Gaming™ and real money 
Regulated Gaming to US casino operators, 
integrated with the US casino operators’ 
existing land-based loyalty programme. 
Intra-State regulation of real money 
Internet gaming remained largely on hold 
in the US, although legislative action did 
occur in Pennsylvania in June with the 
passage of HB 2150 in the Pennsylvanian 
House of Representatives, which suggests 
Internet gaming legislation may progress 
further in that State during the course of 
2017. In the meantime, Simulated Gaming™ 
continued to materially outperform initial 
expectations set in 2013 and is positioned 
for significant growth in 2017 and beyond 
as selected US casino operator clients 
increasingly allocate capital to both 
digital user acquisition marketing and 
targeted patron marketing in reliance 
upon GAN’s marketing services team and 
their specialist digital marketing services.
During the year the Group launched 
Simulated Gaming™ for three major US 
casinos located throughout the Midwest 
and the North East, and signed three 
additional deals for delivery in 2017. 
International opportunities continue to be 
developed although the Group’s strategic 
focus remained firmly on the US market. 
In New Jersey, the Group delivered 
strongly for Betfair’s regulated Internet 
casino gaming business establishing 
BetfairCasino.com as a significant 
Internet casino operator in New Jersey’s 
regulated Internet gaming market. I would 
like to take this opportunity to thank 
staff at GAN, the regulators at the New 
Jersey Division of Gaming Enforcement, 
the management of Betfair’s New 
Jersey operations and the operational 
management of Golden Nugget Atlantic 
City for all their support during 2016.
GAN’s enterprise-level technology 
platform for Internet gaming is a truly 
scarce asset, managed by an equally scarce 
team of experienced specialists managing 
one of a handful of fast-growing real 
money Regulated Gaming businesses in 
New Jersey. Real money Regulated Gaming 
in New Jersey has proved materially 
different in both general practice and 
specific technical requirements when 
compared with European markets. 
GAN is positioned to capture significant 
market share in any incremental US 
intra-State markets which may regulate 
Internet gaming over time, including 
Pennsylvania, New York and Michigan.
The Company’s diverse Internet gaming 
solutions are principally delivered 
to US clients by utilising the SaaS 
model, which, combined with GAN’s 
underlying infrastructure-as-a-service 
(IaaS) model and ancillary professional 
services enables clients to create 
significant incremental value online 
from their existing end user patrons of 
their land-based casino properties.
During the year, the Group achieved 
strong financial growth in net revenue 
derived from the United States and the 
regulated Italian market. This growth 
was driven primarily by Simulated 
Gaming™ nationwide across the US 
and from regulated real money Internet 
gaming in both New Jersey and Italy. 
Growth in our core product verticals of 
Simulated Gaming™ and the sustainable 
real money Regulated Gaming markets 
of New Jersey in the US and Italy 
drove overall net revenue to increase 
by 30% to £7.8m (2015: £6.0m).
Strategy
Expansion in the United States remains 
a continuing strategic priority for the 
Group with requisite increases in US 
infrastructure centred on Las Vegas 
comprising human resource and licensing 
investment in relevant US States including 
New Jersey and Pennsylvania.
With the significant slowdown in 
regulation of real money intra-State 
Regulated Gaming the Group has increased 
its focus on delivering Simulated Gaming™ 
to land-based US casinos in advance of 
further regulation. The net revenue growth 
in 2016 supports the Group’s internal 
focus on delivering Simulated Gaming™ 
to as many major US casino properties 
as possible prior to regulation of real 
money Regulated Gaming. Furthermore, 
the Group has received comprehensive 
evidence from collaborating clients that 
GAN’s unique Simulated Gaming™ model 
has materially increased patrons’ visitation 
on-property, reactivated significant 
numbers of long-term inactive patrons and 
generally proved highly supportive of on-
property real money land-based gaming.
The Group continues to pursue further 
Internet gaming platform sales with 
selected members of the US casino 
Industry. The slow pace of incremental 
regulation of Internet gaming in the 
United States has materially contributed 
to ongoing delays in securing an 
Internet gaming platform sale.
Investment in the Group’s technical 
capability in key areas such as back 
office, mobile and convergence with 
land-based casino management 
systems continued throughout 2016 
with significant growth of the Group’s 
mobile gaming portfolio in HTML5 and 
native iOS and Android applications.  GAN plc Annual report and accounts 2016 11
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ 
REPORT
STRATEGIC 
REPORT
In Europe, the Group extended its market 
position in Italy by launching its content 
portfolio for Bet365 Italia with existing 
clients now representing a significant 
majority of the Italian market for casino 
gaming. GAN launched a significant range 
of new Internet games sourced from 
multiple new content partners delivered to 
clients via the Group’s technical platform 
located in Rome. Italy remains a crucial 
market for GAN as a comprehensively 
regulated Internet gaming market 
exhibiting continued growth throughout 
2016 consequent to the regulation 
of Internet casino gaming in 2013. 
Products
The Group’s back office system iSight 
Back Office™ received major upgrades 
released throughout 2016 continuing 
to deliver a state-of-the-art back 
office player management, along with 
marketing and analytics capabilities 
and unique convergence features 
designed to complement a land-based 
casino’s existing gaming operations.
The product related capabilities of 
Simulated Gaming™ took major strides 
in 2016 with a focus on monetisation 
of players and the introduction of 
gaming activity accelerants designed 
to extend player lifetimes, increase 
frequency of purchases and drive 
increased visitation to the US casino 
operators’ land-based properties.
The Group’s SENSE3™ mobile gaming 
proposition was materially enhanced in 
2016 and greatly supported the Group’s 
revenue growth in the mobile channel. The 
majority of end-user active players now 
engage with both Simulated Gaming™ and 
real money Regulated Gaming primarily 
through their mobile devices and the 
Group completed the transition to a 
new technical development framework 
which greatly increases the rate of unified 
desktop-to-mobile game development.
A wide portfolio of new casino games 
were deployed throughout 2016 granting 
our clients access to a market-leading 
quality portfolio of US-relevant gaming 
content comprising simple casino slots 
and table games, complex multi-player 
bingo and poker, multi-user casino 
games and a wide range of specialist 
games such as blackjack tournaments 
and region-specific card or dice games.
In 2016 the Group’s research and 
development function completed the 
development of ‘freemium’ mobile casual 
skill-based games designed to meet 
the incremental needs of land-based 
casino operator clients and exploiting 
the deep expertise within the Group for 
developing skill-based games. A virtual 
reality or VR casino application for 
Oculus Rift headsets was also released 
in early 2016 for US casino operator 
client Empire City Casino in Yonkers, 
New York in further demonstration of 
GAN’s commitment to innovation on 
behalf of its client US casino operators.
Marketing and Support Services
Throughout 2016, the Group continued 
to invest in establishing a wide range of 
secondary and tertiary services for US 
land-based casino clients designed to 
support the land-based casino operator 
in managing their end-user patrons and 
growing through external user acquisition 
marketing and internal cross-sell marketing 
to existing patron databases and on-
property footfall. Marketing and support 
services remain a crucial component of 
the Group’s service portfolio, ensuring 
any land-based casino operator can 
cost-effectively launch a turnkey 
managed Internet gaming service and, 
should they choose to, invest significant 
capital to grow profitably beyond its 
existing audience of casino patrons.
