 6  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Our businesses
Our businesses are larger 
than ever in terms of 
coverage, size and scope. 
The divisions complement 
one another and provide 
opportunities for growth.
Operating profit* Revenue Employees (average)
Shipbroking
£13.0m £52.8m 211
Technical 
£0.7m £9.5m 82
Environmental 
£1.8m £10.8m 65
Logistics
£1.0m £27.9m 1 76
 * before unallocated other costs of £2.5m.
2007/8 Operating profit* Group revenue Group employees 
(average)
Group performance  
by business segment
£16.5m £101 .0m 534 7  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Chief Executive’s  
review of the business
We are pleased with 
the performance of our 
businesses. Revenue 
and profits are higher 
in all divisions.
Alan Marsh 
Chief Executive
Strategy
Our strategy has been, and remains, to extend the Group’s 
activities beyond pure shipbroking to cover other shipping related 
service areas where we can add value not only for Shareholders 
but also for our clients. To reflect the growth that has occurred 
thus far, and to let clients and others more easily identify with 
our overall offering, we have reorganised the Group into distinct 
operating divisions: Shipbroking, Technical, Logistics and 
Environmental. 
Operations
This year our Shipbroking business has improved its financial 
performance significantly at a time when the core office, 
departmental structure and head count has not fundamentally 
changed. Some of this can be attributed to higher freight rates but 
in many areas we are showing good growth in transaction volumes 
which is a testament to the effectiveness of our teams. The new 
financial year has started extremely well – as at 1 March 2008  
we had already concluded shipbroking business totalling in excess 
of US$53 million deliverable over the course of the year which is 
some 77% higher than the equivalent position at 1 March 2007.
Our Technical, Logistics and Environmental businesses have all 
been busy over the last year and have raised their international 
profile considerably due to their success in handling and winning 
important business. Each of these businesses possesses 
specialist skills for which we expect there to be a growing demand 
as the world fleet grows and both the appetite for energy and 
exploration activity remain high. We have added to our skill base 
through selective acquisitions and organic growth which will bring 
further opportunities to increase our presence in these areas. 
A review of the market and our activities during the year is set  
out by segment below.
Shipbroking – Braemar Seascope
Revenues increased by 30% to £52.8 million (2007: £40.5 million) 
and operating profits were 23% higher at £13.0 million (2007: 
£10.6 million). 
Shipbroking activities are undertaken under the name of Braemar 
Seascope from offices in London, Aberdeen, Shanghai, Beijing, 
Singapore, Melbourne, Perth, and Sarzana, Italy, with further joint 
venture offices in Delhi and Mumbai. 
At the beginning of our financial year – 1 March 2007 – the Baltic 
Dry Index, the barometer for the dry bulk market, stood at the 
relatively low level of 4,818 before making steady gains until mid 
November when it reached its peak of 11,039, falling back to  
5,615 by the end of January 2008 and finishing the financial year  
at 7,613. It currently stands at 9,581. Volatility was especially 
a feature of the Capesize market, which is devoted to the 
transportation of raw materials particularly coal for power and steel, 
and iron ore for steel and is indicative of a relatively even balance 
of supply and demand. In such circumstances news or rumours of 
port closures, congestion or stem curtailments can cause significant 
short‑ term fluctuations. Our dry cargo department finished the  
year with record invoiced revenues, with the overseas offices all 
making good contributions. We have also been active in the period 
charter market and our forward book has grown substantially. 
In our next financial year we expect volatility to continue and, 
although there will be a considerable number of additions  
to the fleet, we expect the market to remain healthy, underpinned  
by the burgeoning demands particularly in China and India. 
Our deep sea tanker chartering department increased their 
involvement in both the number of spot and time charter 
transactions, resulting in an increase in revenue over last year. 
The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index (BDTI) started the financial year  
at 1,094 and closed at 1,151, averaging 1,122 over the year.  
It currently stands at 1,701. However, on the 7 December 2007 
a large single hull crude tanker was holed by a barge whilst at 
anchor off South Korea resulting in major pollution affecting the 
coastal environment. Charterers immediately looked to secure 
only double hull tonnage putting pressure on the market. VLCC 
tanker rates spiked achieving earnings as high as US$300,000 
per day despite the high bunker prices. These rates filtered 
down to the Suezmax and Aframax sectors and although there  8  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Chief Executive’s  
review of the business
continued
was a significant correction in the first quarter of 2008, the rates 
remained higher than at any time in the previous year barring 
the peak in December 2007 when the BDTI reached 2,279. 
The demand for double hull tonnage has also accelerated various 
conversion programs that single hull tanker owners had been 
planning for dry bulk or FPSO work. We expect that the balance 
between demand, new crude carriers entering the market and 
conversions/scrapping to broadly equate over the coming year.
In the smaller tanker sectors the impact of newbuildings entering 
the market depressed rates. However the increase in refining  
and the subsequent distribution of products in the coastal  
markets is expected to result in the volume of transactions  
rising significantly over the next year. Volumes in the specialist 
chemical markets (including petrochemical gases) have increased 
resulting in charterers securing medium term contracts for  
12 to 24 months. Newbuilding tonnage delivering to this sector 
has accommodated the increase in movements and rates are 
expected to remain steady.
LPG markets remained fairly static over the year with a surplus 
of large tonnage keeping the rates at low levels although the main 
producers are now pricing the product for expected increased 
sales from the end of 2008. LNG markets have also stayed quiet 
with a number of delivered LNG carriers waiting for their planned 
project work to commence. These projects had been delayed for 
technical and commercial reasons and this has affected the critical 
supply of LNG. For a number of these projects, transportation  
is now expected to commence within two years. Once underway 
the surplus tonnage in both LNG and LPG sectors should be 
quickly absorbed.
The performance of the sale and purchase department improved 
again with notable success in placing newbuilding orders across 
a wide variety of high quality shipyards. Secondhand transaction 
deal flow was steady and quite evenly balanced between 
tankers and bulk carriers. Transaction values have been strong 
reflecting the historically high prices achieved in the principal 
ship categories. Another major feature was the amount of resale 
activity, this being business where we are involved in transacting 
the onward sale of a newbuilding contract already placed and for 
which our commission is generally earned on delivery of the vessel 
from the yard. Demolition business is currently a less active part 
of sale and purchase but we expect it to increase in the coming 
years in line with the phase‑out of single hull tankers, and as we 
enter the new financial year we are seeing more evidence of this.
Container charter rates and vessel values remained quite firm over 
the year and our container desk performed well in both the sale 
and purchase and chartering markets. The arrival of substantial 
The new financial year 
begins with the best 
ever start – Shipbroking 
business of US $53 million 
deliverable in 2008/9.
Part of the DV Howells incident 
response team which has had  
a busy year.
Falconer Bryan provide technical 
survey, engineering and consulting 
services for the marine and  
energy sectors. 9  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
newbuilding tonnage will be a source of new opportunities 
although charter rates and second hand prices could be lower 
in the medium term if demand slows. However continuing 
globalisation, of which the container market is a cornerstone, 
underpins future prospects.
The offshore desk enjoyed a record year of growth and activity 
driven by the high level of oil exploration activity. Supply vessels 
have been much in demand and day rates rose to historic highs 
which look likely to be sustained by the high price of oil. The 
increase in earnings has encouraged investment in the industry 
and our team were also involved in concluding good sale and 
purchase and newbuilding business.
Technical – Wavespec, Falconer Bryan and Steege Kingston
Revenues increased by 43% to £9.5 million (2007: £6.6 million) 
and operating profits were up by 32% at £0.7 million (2007: 
£0.5 million). Falconer Bryan contributed revenues of £3.4 million 
and operating profits before amortisation of £0.5 million 
in the eight months since it was acquired. The business is 
headquartered in Singapore and employs 90 full time staff from 
seven offices, most of which are based in the Far East. All of 
its offices have been busy throughout the period working on a 
broad range of marine warranty surveys, towage approvals and 
consulting engineering work, and this activity shows every sign 
of continuing in the same vein. We are pleased with the progress 
it has made as part of the Group during which a new office in 
London has been established to access the insurance market. 
Wavespec’s revenue and operating contribution was slightly lower 
mainly due to a weaker dollar, less higher margin project work  
and an office move to new leased premises in Malden. However 
it has extended its Qatargas business to 2011 and recently won 
new business for the design of new coal carrying vessels.
Steege Kingston was acquired on 3 March 2008 and has 
therefore not been consolidated in the year we are now reporting 
on. It provides specialist loss adjusting and other expert services 
to the energy (oil and gas), marine, power and other related 
industrial sectors and is one of the leading international players 
in the energy adjusting market, with a particularly strong reputation 
and presence in the offshore/upstream sector. Its client base 
covers insurance underwriters, insurance brokers as well as the 
insured parties in the oil and gas industry itself. It operates from 
offices in London, Houston, Singapore, Calgary and Mexico City 
with a total of 62 employees. In the year to 31 December 2007 
it recorded consolidated revenues of £7.0 million and pre‑tax 
profits of £1.7 million and as at 31 December 2007 gross assets 
were £7.2 million and net assets were £4.9 million including cash 
of £0.2 million. 
The Technical division is now substantially larger as a result of the 
new business additions. The combination of international offices, 
client bases and skills will be a powerful business base from which 
to grow. The division now has 170 full time employees plus a 
further 70 consultant engineers acting as supervisors in shipyards.
Logistics – Cory Brothers
Revenues increased by 19% to £27.9 million (2007: £23.4 million) 
and operating profits were up 5% at £1.0 million (2007: £0.9 
million). Revenue growth arose primarily from liner, logistics 
and forwarding business driven by sustained strong demand. 
In excess of 19,500 forwarding jobs were handled in the year 
compared with 13,200 last year. Logistics and one‑off projects 
continue to be the mainstay of sustainable growth and profitability, 
and we are proud that Cory Logistics’ success in this area has 
been recognised by the industry with the awards of Lloyd’s List 
Freight Forwarder of the Year and Heavylift/Project Specialist of 
the year for 2007. 
The acquisition of 80% of Fred. Olsen Freight on 24 December 
2007 is a key strategic addition and a natural fit with Cory 
Logistics. It provides a range of freight forwarding and liner agency 
services for a predominantly UK client base complementing the 
services currently offered by Cory Logistics. It has 50 employees 
located mostly in Ipswich and close to the Cory Logistics offices 
of Felixstowe.
Port agency is maintaining a leading position in an increasingly 
competitive UK market, handling in excess of 6,000 port calls  
in 2007/8, an increase of 23% over the prior year. In April 2008  
Cory was awarded the highly prestigious BP hub agency business 
for the European region.
Morrison Tours, a seasonal business linked closely to the cruise 
industry around the UK has added to its customer base and 
improved the take‑up of the shore excursions on offer with 
improved prospects for the coming year.
Environmental – DV Howells 
DV Howells increased revenues to £10.8 million from £3.2 million 
in the previous year and operating profits grew from £0.2 million 
to £1.8 million. Much of the growth was due to the company’s 
salvage support and environmental protection for the stricken 
container ship off the South coast of England which had an 
incremental income of over £7.9 million in the year. This work 
resulted in a significant increase in man hours worked on  
the protection and clean up of the beaches together with the 
specialist handling of the recovered containers from the ship. 
The Industrial Services section of the company, which handled 
much of this work, also deployed its specialist tank cleaning 
technology on a number of oil storage tank farms. 
Cory Logistics has grown significantly 
and added the business Fred. Olsen 
Freight during the year.
Cory Logistics won the Lloyd’s List 
Freight Forwarder of the Year and 
Heavylift/Project Specialist for 2007. 10  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Chief Executive’s  
review of the business
continued
The 24/7 Incident Response section continued steadily performing 
specialist environmental clean up including the handling of 
hazardous substances and spills for ports, rail and roads from its 
nine bases in the UK. It also attended a number of call outs for the 
Maritime and Coastguard Agency (MCA) as part of the contract  
to operate the MCA national counter pollution stockpiles.
The company’s International and Specialist Services section acted 
as consultant advisors in the review of various UK ports’ oil spill 
contingency plans, as well as assisting the Irish Coastal Authority 
with their emergency response and incident management plans. 
The company has grown its international involvement through  
a variety of contracts including specialist consulting assignments 
for the International Maritime Organisation, UK Ministry of  
Defence and major oil and shipping companies, plus offshore 
drilling support, spill response and training, in Africa, Europe 
and the Far East. 
Financial Review
Income statement
Revenue and operating profits grew in all divisions – the 
segmental results are shown in note 2. Gross margins (calculated 
after charging costs that are directly related to revenue) were 
stable at 72% and operating margins after all operating expenses 
(excluding an exceptional charge in 2007) also remained 
unchanged at 14%. 
A reconciliation of reported profits to adjusted profits is set out in 
the table below. 
   2007/8 2006/7 
    £000 £000
Adjusted profits from continuing  
operations before impairment  
charge and tax  +34% 14,718  10,964
Impairment of Braemar  
Seascope Pty goodwill   –  (950)
Reported profit before tax from  
continuing operations  +47% 14,718  10,014
  
   Pence  Pence
EPS from continuing operations  
(pre impairment charge)  +33% 48.99  36.90
Impairment of goodwill   –  (4.82)
Basic EPS from continuing  
operations  +53% 48.99  32.08
Our Technical, Logistics 
and Environmental 
businesses have raised 
their international profile 
due to success in 
handling and winning 
important business.
The Dry Bulk department has enjoyed 
good growth from its offices in London, 
Melbourne, Perth, Singapore, Beijing 
and Sarzana, Italy.
Braemar Seascope’s specialised 
tanker section is represented in 
London, Singapore and Shanghai. 11  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Discontinued operations
In September 2007 the bunker trading operations based  
in Australia ceased and the historic net result of this activity  
is now shown on a single discontinued operations line in  
the income statement.
Taxation
The tax rate on reported profit before tax was 32.6% 
(2007: 35.8%). The underlying rate, excluding the share of net 
profits from joint ventures and the effect of the impairment charge, 
was 33.4% (2007: 33.3%). Next year the tax rate will benefit  
from the reduction in the rate of UK corporation tax to 28%.
Cash flow and acquisitions
The cash balance increased over the year by £7.0 million 
to £21.6 million (2007: £14.6 million). The Group generated 
operating cash flows (after tax) of £17.0 million up from 
£6.6 million in the prior year mainly due to the increase  
in operating profits and an improvement in working capital 
management. Out of this, £1.0 million was spent on fixed 
assets, £4.3 million on acquisitions and £4.1 million for 
dividend payments. 
Cash expended on acquiring businesses was £7.4 million, offset 
by £3.1 million of cash in the acquired balance sheets, in respect 
of Falconer Bryan (£5.9 million), Fred. Olsen Freight (£1.3 million) 
and deferred consideration (£0.2 million). Subsequent to the  
year end the Group paid £4.2 million in respect of the purchase  
of Steege Kingston and £0.9 million to purchase the 59%  
of Gorman Cory such that it is now wholly‑owned.
Treasury risk management
The Board sets the Group’s treasury policy covering financing 
decisions and treasury risk management, the objective of which 
is to manage the Group’s financial risk exposures in an effective 
manner. The Finance Director is responsible for day‑to‑day 
treasury risk monitoring and activity which is reviewed by  
the Board through regular reporting. The Group uses financial 
instruments to hedge underlying exposures and not for 
speculative purposes. (See derivative and other financial 
instruments – note 19 in the accounts).
Liquidity risk: The Group has no net debt and did not have  
at any time during the year. An overdraft facility of £5.0 million  
with the Group’s principal relationship bank, the Royal Bank  
of Scotland plc, is maintained for financial flexibility and in order  
to improve treasury efficiency and performance. 
Foreign exchange risk: The majority of the Group’s shipbroking 
income is US dollar denominated and changes in the rate 
of exchange relative to £ sterling, and to a lesser extent the 
Australian and Singapore dollar, can have an effect on the 
reported results and net assets. From time to time the Group 
enters into forward foreign exchange contracts and currency 
options to limit the effect of currency fluctuations.
The average rate of exchange for conversion of US dollar 
income during the financial year, after taking account of hedging, 
was $1.99/£ (2007: $1.86/£) and at 29 February 2008 the 
balance sheet rate for conversion was $1.99/£ (28 February 
2007: $1.97/£). If the 2007/8 shipbroking income had been 
translated at the 2006/7 average exchange rate, it would have 
been higher by approximately £3.7 million. 
At 29 February 2008 the Group held forward currency contracts 
to sell US$12.0 million at an average rate of $1.93/£ and two 
variable forward window agreements to sell $0.5 million per 
month with upper and lower strike prices of $1.9735 – $2.10 
for the months March 08 – February 09 and $1.8605 – $1.9995 
for the months March 08 – February 09.
Interest rate risk: The Group has an exposure to interest rates in 
relation to its cash balances, the majority of which are held in the 
UK. Surplus cash (in £s or US$s) is deposited at institutions with 
strong credit ratings and deposits are short term in nature.
I would like to express my personal thanks and appreciation to  
all the staff whose hard work and commitment have contributed 
to our performance this year, and with such dedicated colleagues 
I am confident for the continuing success of the Group. 
Alan Marsh 
6 May 2008
Our container team have performed 
well in both sale and purchase  
and chartering.
Research and analysis forms a critical 
part of the ideas and service we 
provide for clients.
