 chairman’s statement
CONTINuING 
TO DELIvER
michael bucKley
Chairman
26 April 2017
2016 has been another year 
of significant progress for 
Gaming Realms. Revenue 
increased by more than 60% 
to £34.0m (2015: £21.2m). 
The Group also delivered 
its first profitable reporting 
period in H2/16 with an 
adjusted EBITDA profit of 
£2.0m (H2/15: loss of £1.7m), 
reinforcing the Board’s view 
that its strategy of investing 
in high quality, high value 
assets and the focus on 
execution has allowed the 
Group to achieve strong top 
line growth while delivering 
an improving bottom line 
performance. 
During the first half of 2016 non-core 
assets, including our bingo sites on a 
third-party platform were disposed of, 
focusing the Group on our own platform. 
In addition, we disposed of QuickThink 
Media to Ayima, integrating our in-house 
digital marketing agency with a high 
growth full service agency in exchange 
for an equity stake in Ayima.
2016 has also been the first full year of 
integration and operation of the Slingo IP 
and social publishing business acquired 
from Real Networks in H2/15. In addition 
to driving significant new content for our 
real money gaming business, this 
acquisition has delivered third party royalty 
savings as well as providing a significant 
new addressable market for Gaming 
Realms’ game content, IP and marketing 
capability. During the year we created and 
deployed several new social apps and 
04 Annual Report and Accounts 2016 Real money gaming delivered year on 
year revenue growth of c.100%. The Group 
could have shown a small profit for the 
year had we decided to invest less heavily 
in the development and marketing of our 
new social publishing business. The social 
publishing adjusted EBITDA loss was £1.8m 
(10 August 2015 to 31 December 2015: 
£1.5m) due to new app development and 
new launches including the successful 
Slingo Arcade featuring our Slingo 
Original content.
Outlook for 2017
The Board has approved the 2017 
operating plan which is to drive continued 
top line growth in uK real money gaming 
operations on our Grizzly platform and 
balance that with continuing to improve 
bottom line contribution from social 
publishing and content licensing. As in 
2016, we will invest significantly in 
marketing during H1 particularly focused 
on the real money gaming business 
through strategic Tv partnerships to build 
awareness and play frequency and reap the 
benefits of a scaled player base across the 
full year.
Following the disposal of our non-core 
assets in 2016, and as we continue to scale 
the business, we are now focused on 
profitable growth. We will allocate our 
capital and resources on the most 
profitable areas particularly real money 
gaming and our new content licensing 
revenue stream. Our plan is to achieve 
profitability for the full year in 2017. 
We plan to extend our presence in New 
Jersey, having now achieved both product 
and platform approval. With the addition 
of several new licensees including Caesar’s 
Interactive, Pala Interactive, Resorts and 
one other uS operator, we will introduce 
our real money Slingo games into that 
territory. We hope to continue to benefit 
from the investment in development and 
integration synergies which were 
undertaken during 2016 in our social 
publishing business. 
integrated aspects of the business with 
our real money gaming business. Through 
further operational synergies as well as 
innovative new product growth, it is our 
expectation that these investments and 
enhancements to the way we operate will 
deliver greater profitability in 2017.
The Board continues to review growth 
opportunities in adjacent markets for our 
existing content. The acquisition of the 
Slingo brand and IP has allowed us to 
achieve significant licensing partnerships 
with Scientific Games, Zynga and Instant 
Win Gaming which are already yielding 
c.£0.7m in recurring revenue with limited 
recurring cost. 
With increased focus on producing our 
own proprietary games for our real money 
gaming business, we are developing 
additional high margin revenue 
opportunities in social and real money 
game content licensing markets. These 
will come on stream in 2017.
We are delighted with the performance of 
our real money gaming business in which 
we were awarded the Mobile Casino 
Product of the Year award by eGaming 
Review. This is a strong endorsement of our 
execution in 2016 and how our mobile first 
strategy is yielding significant growth over 
the twelve-month period.
Our investment in producing our own 
content and developing this on our own 
platform has allowed us greater flexibility 
to deliver high rate revenue growth. As we 
scale revenue across our fixed costs this 
will deliver increased margin and enable 
us to achieve greater bottom line 
contribution. using our own platform has 
reduced content royalties by 39% in the 
last year alone. In addition, the revenue 
from new content distribution and further 
IP licensing will further drive high margin 
revenue across the same fixed costs. 
In summary, the Group has never been in 
a better position to drive further profitable 
growth across our real money gaming and 
content licensing revenue streams. 
Board focus
achievements in 2016
 > POSITIvE ADJuSTED EBITDA H2/ 1 6
 > COMMON GAME DEvELOPMENT 
ROADMAP
 > DEvELOPMENT OF REMOTE GAME 
SERvER
 > REDuCTION IN DIRECT COSTS TO 
35% (2015: 42%) OF NGR IN RMG
 > LAuNCH OF SLINGO ARCADE IN 
Q4/ 1 6
priorities for 2017
 > GROWING REAL MONEY GAMING 
AND CONTENT LICENSING
 > PROFITABILITY IN SOCIAL 
PuBLISHING
strategic r eport Corporate Governance Financial Statements
05 Annual Report and Accounts 2016
