 5  Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2008 
Sir Graham Hearne 
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
We are investing some 
of our operating cash flows 
in businesses that operate 
in closely related areas.  
This adds value and breadth 
to the Group.
This is my sixth report to Shareholders as Chairman and once 
again I am delighted to announce another successful year of 
growth for the Group. The financial highlights are that revenue 
increased by 37% from £73.8 million to £101.0 million, profit 
before tax from continuing operations increased by 47% from 
£10.0 million to £14.7 million and earnings per share from 
continuing operations rose by 53% to 48.99 pence from 32.08 
pence in 2006/7. A more representative comparison of the 
Group’s performance is made by adjusting for an exceptional 
charge of £950,000 made last year, in which case adjusted 
pre‑tax profits grew by 34% and earnings per share by 33%. 
Our staff across the world have performed well and we are 
grateful for their effort and commitment which has brought about 
this success.
Shipbroking has thrived in shipping markets which have been 
both volatile and buoyant. The demand for oil and raw materials 
has continued unabated attracting further new investment in 
shipping. In particular this year we have benefited from strong 
activity and rates in newbuilding, dry bulk and offshore chartering 
though all shipbroking sections have performed well. Our forward 
order book has grown again and stands at a record level.
Our Environmental division had an outstanding year, largely  
due to their involvement in the clearance of the stricken container 
vessel off the south coast of England, and both Cory Brothers 
and Wavespec performed well over the year.
We have continued to invest part of our operating cash flows  
in these businesses. In pursuing this strategy we are creating  
a broader and more diverse group which can offer a wider range 
of services for clients. We have invested significantly in our 
Technical division through the purchase of Falconer Bryan in  
July 2007 for a cash consideration of £5.9 million and Steege 
Kingston in March 2008 for a consideration which is expected 
to be in the range £8.0 – £8.5 million dependent on its financial 
performance. Falconer Bryan offers a range of engineering  
and surveying services from offices across the Far East, and 
Steege Kingston is an international loss‑adjuster specialising  
in the energy market. These businesses operate in markets that 
will grow and they also complement our existing operations  
to create new opportunities. We have also added to our Logistics 
division with the acquisition of 80 per cent of Fred. Olsen Freight 
for £2.0 million in December 2007 and the remaining interest  
in Gorman Cory for £0.9 million in March 2008. 
The Directors are recommending for approval at the Annual 
General Meeting a final dividend of 15.00 pence per ordinary 
share, to be paid on 25 July 2008 to shareholders on the register 
at the close of business on 27 June 2008. Together with the 
8.00 pence interim dividend the Company’s dividend for the year 
is 23.0 pence (2007: 19.0 pence), a rise of 21%. The dividend 
is covered 2.1 times by earnings from continuing operations.
Market conditions remain favourable for our businesses and  
the financial year has begun well, so far with no adverse effect 
from the global credit squeeze. Freight rates and vessel values  
are both firm and there is strong demand for our services, all  
of which bodes well for the new year.
Sir Graham Hearne 
6 May 2008
