 Chief Executive’s review
We have maintained, and in many 
areas increased our market share 
and we are well-structured to perform 
positively in the current climate. 
Strategy
The strategy for the Group over the past few years has been to 
extend the range of services offered beyond pure shipbroking 
into other related marine services. These services contributed 
25% of the Group’s operating proﬁ ts before amortisation and 
central costs in 2008/9 and have created a broader base to 
the Group. This investment has been ﬁ nanced predominantly 
from operating cash ﬂ ow without placing undue strain on the 
balance sheet. The Group has remained debt-free throughout 
the past ﬁ ve years.
Performance
One might characterise this as a year of two halves given the 
huge changes in the prices of almost every asset, commodity 
and currency since the summer of 2008. Shipping has been 
severely affected with reductions in both rates and vessel 
values, but I believe that throughout this period we have 
maintained, and in many areas increased our market share 
and that we are well-structured to perform positively in the 
current climate. Our estimate of the shipbroking forward order 
book deliverable over the course of the ﬁ nancial year 2009/10 
stands at £29 million (US$42 million) as at 1 March 2009 
(2008: £27 million, US$53 million), with the appreciation of 
the dollar offsetting an underlying reduction.
In challenging conditions, our non-broking businesses 
have performed well, especially in Technical Services, and 
increasingly found ways to work together. Their assimilation 
into the Group has been assisted by them taking on the 
Braemar brand where appropriate. I am encouraged by the 
overall performance in 2008/9 and by the good start to the 
new ﬁ nancial year.
Staff
The blend of skills we have is unique and I am very pleased 
by the way that new staff have whole-heartedly embraced 
the opportunity to work with other group colleagues on new 
projects. We are fortunate to have teams with great ability 
and experience and I am grateful for their hard work and 
application which will continue to stand us in good stead 
for the future.
A divisional review of business performance and the markets 
we operate in is set out on pages 8 to 17.
Alan Marsh
Chief Executive
11 May 2009
Strategy 2008/09
Shipbroking
Technical
To expand the geographical network of ofﬁ ces and 
disciplines within each ofﬁ ce
Harness the combined skill sets across the globe 
and maximise the beneﬁ t of the ofﬁ ce network
Division strategy
Logistics Enhance international links and grow ofﬁ ce network
Environmental Grow customer base both internationally and 
in the UK
Operating divisions
6 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Alan Marsh
Chief Executive
–  Established Container, Offshore and Capesize chartering 
desks in Singapore and a Container desk in Shanghai
–  Building a presence in FFAs
–  Establishment of a gas cargo broking arm – LPG Connect
–  Braemar Steege acquired in March 2008
–  Braemar name adopted by Technical companies and 
Technical management board formed
–  New ofﬁ ces in Florida, Brazil, Venezuela, Peru
–  Increase geographical footprint
–  Widening of London disciplines into 
overseas ofﬁ ces
–  Acquisition opportunities likely to arise
–  Gain market share, particularly through
new ofﬁ ces
–  Expansion of technical skill base
–  Enhance services through cross-selling
Achievements Opportunities
–  Continuing to build the forwarding business through the 
purchase of Freight Action
–  Integration of Fred. Olsen Freight into a new purpose built 
ofﬁ ce in Felixstowe
–  Establishing our ﬁ rst overseas ship agency ofﬁ ce in Singapore
–  Awarded the BP hub contract for all of Europe
– International development
– Expansion of overseas business in Nigeria and Angola
– Development of Industrial services
– Opened Liverpool ofﬁ ce
– International development
– Broaden consultancy services offered
7 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenues increased by 14% to £60.4 million 
(2008: £52.8 million) and operating proﬁ ts before 
amortisation were 14% higher at £15.0 million 
(2008: £13.1 million) which was an excellent 
performance in a year of great upheaval in the 
market, but with no signiﬁ cant changes in either 
staff numbers or the ofﬁ ce network during the year. 
The network is headquartered in London which 
is a multi-disciplinary ofﬁ ce with branch ofﬁ ces in 
Aberdeen for offshore chartering, Shanghai for sale & 
purchase and newbuilding and Beijing and Italy for dry 
bulk chartering. We also conduct dry bulk chartering 
from Melbourne, Perth and Singapore which also 
serves as a base for further container and offshore 
activities. There are joint venture ofﬁ ces in Delhi and 
Mumbai specialising in wet and dry chartering, and in 
Singapore for gas and chemicals chartering. With this 
network we are able to provide international coverage 
and a ﬂ exible, top-quality service for our clients based 
on the sharing of market information and research. 
At 1 March 2008 the Baltic Dry Index stood at 
7,613 and by the end of our ﬁ nancial year it was 
1,986 having reached a high of 11,793 on 20 
May 2008 and a low of 663 on 5 Dec 2008. After 
the unprecedented mid-year high, the dry cargo 
market started a rapid decline in September 2008 
with the onset of the global credit crunch and 
plunging commodity prices. Chinese demand for 
dry bulk commodities fell quickly bringing the freight 
market down with it. For a time during November 
and December, all dry cargo earnings were below 
operating costs, which was a clear over-reaction 
as evidenced by the recovery in January 2009. 
The rapid change in freight and commodity values 
resulted in a series of well publicised defaults on both 
physical and derivative contracts. The freight market 
has picked up since, driven by increased grain and 
ore movements in the Atlantic, which has stimulated 
Ofﬁ ces
London
Aberdeen
Beijing
Melbourne
Mumbai
New Delhi
Perth
Sarzana
Shanghai
Singapore
Shipbroking – Braemar Seascope
Revenue up 14%
£60.4m
2008: £52.8m
Operating proﬁ t up 14%
£15.0m
2008: £13.1m
the Paciﬁ c and Indian Ocean markets. The volatility 
of commodity prices has shifted the emphasis in the 
market towards spot ﬁ xing. 
While economic forecasts for the balance of 2009 
remain gloomy there is an expectation that the 
freight market will be assisted by large government-
sponsored infrastructure projects especially in China 
and India. However, the substantial order book of 
new shipping due for delivery in the next two years 
will only be partially offset by the scrapping of older 
ships and the growth in the ﬂ eet is likely to stiﬂ e the 
beneﬁ t of any growth in demand.
There is growth potential for spot ﬁ xtures brought 
about by an increase in Capesize demand due to iron 
ore import substitution for China which is the world’s 
largest consumer of iron ore for steel production. 
A signiﬁ cant drop in the annual benchmark price for 
iron ore is forecast for 2009/10, and this, coupled with 
a low freight market, will result in the delivered price of 
iron ore from Brazil and Australia being much less than 
the production cost of large volumes of domestically 
produced iron ore. Almost a third of China’s domestic 
output is vulnerable to import substitution as steel 
mills continue to reduce overall costs.
The deep sea tanker chartering department continued 
to grow their market share over the past 12 months 
and in combination with the strong freight rates of 
2008, the department produced a signiﬁ cant increase 
in revenue over the ﬁ nancial year. However, since the 
beginning of our year the rates in all sectors have 
fallen quite dramatically due to lower demand for 
crude oil and its products as a result of the global 
economic downturn. The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index 
started the ﬁ nancial year at 1,164 and averaged 
1,415 during the ﬁ nancial year closing at 601. To 
indicate the volatility of the markets the highest 
reached was 2,347 in July 2008 and lowest point 
was 573 early February 2009; currently it stands at 
480. The delivery of new building tonnage will exceed 
market requirements in the short- to medium-term 
and this combined with reduced crude volumes, 
have lowered the returns for owners. 
1. The Deep Sea Tanker 
department continues to 
be at the forefront of spot 
chartering whilst exploiting 
the opportunities for 
period business in the 
volatile tanker market.
2. There are considerable 
opportunities for the Dry 
Cargo department to 
expand spot business.
1. 2.
8 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 29% of all goods moved in the European 
Union are carried in short sea vessels. 
Short sea shipping is deﬁ ned as maritime 
transport that does not involve an ocean 
crossing and includes coastal transport 
and sea-river transport. Braemar 
Seascope has a dedicated team of 
brokers working exclusively in this 
area and are active in the chartering 
market of tankers on short sea routes. 
Our clients are major oil companies 
and traders who the brokers assist in 
fulﬁ lling their shipping requirements.
 12:00
 London
GMT+0 
UK
0
9 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
+12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Australia exported approx 380 million 
tons of iron ore in 2008. In the same 
period Australian producers shipped large 
volumes of other ferrous products such 
as manganese and non-ferrous products 
such as alumina, copper and zinc. These 
exports are all seaborne and Braemar 
Seascope’s shipbroking ofﬁ ces in Perth 
and Melbourne are strategically placed 
to provide their clients with a unique 
view on the different factors affecting 
dry cargo demand and are active in 
assisting their clients’ requirements for 
tonnage and contracts to service these 
important commodities.
 19:45
 Perth
GMT+8 
 Australia
+8
10 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
demolition, achieving a good, diverse mix across the 
ship categories. Having reached very high levels in 
the summer of 2008, vessel values and transaction 
volumes fell substantially in the ﬁ nal calendar quarter 
in response to the contraction of credit and the 
falling freight markets. Against the overall trend, our 
newbuilding department has continued to conclude 
new business. Some contract cancellation and/or 
renegotiation is taking place, although our own 
business has been affected less than the overall 
market. With the reduction in ship prices, we are 
already seeing many of our clients who have not 
recently been active in the sale and purchase 
market, looking at opportunities, and we are 
therefore optimistic that sale and purchase activity 
will be good over the coming year.
Our commitment to maintaining a ship recycling and 
demolition department through the boom years when 
demolition activity was low is now being repaid with 
the signiﬁ cant levels of activity. Many international 
clients are now seeking our expertise in this area. 
The container market suffered a steep decline 
during 2008 brought about by excess capacity 
and the deteriorating international economies. 
These conditions are not necessarily adverse for our 
broking team which has concluded good chartering 
and sale and purchase business throughout the year, 
with the number of period charters we have broked 
now at a record level. In addition to London the team 
now has a presence in Singapore and Shanghai and 
is well-placed to gain market share.
The offshore desk enjoyed another ﬁ ne year of 
chartering and project activity driven by high 
worldwide exploration. The demand for supply and 
anchor handling vessels meant that rates reached 
an all-time high during 2008 and substantial 
additions to our forward order book were achieved. 
In the ﬁ rst calendar quarter of 2009 rates have 
softened and look like remaining at these levels for 
the immediate future.
Shipbroking – Braemar Seascope
continued
However, at these current rate levels both owners 
and charterers are considering longer-term period 
cover with a view to managing earnings and costs 
over a period of time and our team of project brokers 
are involved in these strategic discussions and well 
placed to execute further deals albeit at lower levels. 
We also entered the FFA (forward freight agreement) 
broking market with a team based at our London 
headquarters, which has added another tool in 
freight management service provided for our clients.
In the LNG sector our reputation as leading market 
information providers has helped us secure additional 
consultancy contracts as well as an increase in 
broking short-term period and spot shipments. 
As in the other tanker markets the overall volumes 
transported have reduced but we do anticipate 
utilisation of surplus LNG tonnage as and when 
the larger projects are completed over the next 
24 months. 
The specialised tanker sections continue to grow 
their ﬁ xing volumes and we are now operating 
signiﬁ cant tonnage on the spot markets and under 
signiﬁ cant oil company contracts throughout 
northwest and continental Europe. Petrochemical 
gas and Liquid Petroleum Gas (LPG) transportation 
rates remained consistent during the past year but 
the excess tonnage in relation to the requirement 
has diminished the returns for the owners and 
operators alike.
LPG is also a bi-product of LNG production and 
we have taken a further step to expand our market 
position in the VLGC markets by establishing 
Braemar LPG Connect as a gas product broking 
business. Together with our dedicated VLGC 
brokers we expect our business volumes to grow 
in this segment. 
The sale and purchase department had a successful 
year across all aspects of business – second hand, 
newbuilding including resale, and more recently in 
1. The LNG department 
has gained a reputation 
as a market leader in 
information provision 
and consultancy.
2. The Container 
department have record 
numbers of period ﬁ xtures 
in their books in a very 
challenging market.
1. 2.
11 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenues increased from £9.5 million to £21.2 million 
and operating proﬁ ts before amortisation were up 
from £0.8 million to £4.2 million. The inclusion of 
Braemar Steege, which was acquired on 3 March 
2008, added £6.8 million to revenue and £1.3 million 
to operating proﬁ t before amortisation.
Braemar Falconer’s revenue and proﬁ ts for the 
past ﬁ nancial year grew substantially on the back 
of strong activity across their ofﬁ ces in Southeast 
Asia. Generally there has been little change in 
either work or revenue as a result of the ﬁ nancial 
crisis. Within marine warranty surveying ship 
construction remains active but rig movements 
have reduced since the beginning of the year with 
lower drilling activity resulting in some clients’ 
rigs being “stacked”. The Company’s engineering 
consultancy arm was very active through the year 
although chargeable rates have stabilised. Much of 
our consulting and design work is part of large oil 
companies’ long-term projects. The new ﬁ nancial 
year has begun well and all of the ofﬁ ces are busy 
with no reduction in workload.
Wavespec’s revenue and operating proﬁ ts grew 
with the addition of a number of offshore projects 
to supplement their core LNG business where the 
continuation of the Qatargas project has delivered 
a steady return. More recently they have been 
appointed technical consultants for the shipping 
aspects of a major LNG Project. There are two 
phases to the project, the ﬁ rst phase was to develop 
the optimum vessel size, propulsion system and 
containment system. The second phase is to 
develop the vessel’s speciﬁ cation for the vessel 
acquisition programme. It is planned to establish an 
ofﬁ ce in Houston during 2009.
Braemar Steege is one of the leading international 
players in the energy loss adjusting market and its 
client base covers insurance underwriters, captive 
insurance companies and the legal community. 
At acquisition it operated from ofﬁ ces in London, 
Houston, Singapore, Calgary, and Mexico City 
and since then it has established a new ofﬁ ce 
in Miami from which it has expanded into South 
America with additional ofﬁ ces in Caracas, Lima 
and Rio de Janeiro to develop additional business 
streams in infrastructure and pollution insurance 
claims to complement their core energy-related 
business. In particular, a number of cases have 
been handled using the resources available through 
Braemar Howells. It has on-going business from 
loss adjusting instructions on claims caused by 
hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 and it has also 
seen an increase in the provision of expert technical 
assistance to lawyers dealing with non-insurance 
disputes – a development which could increase 
as the current economic climate generates more 
commercial disputes. They have also beneﬁ ted 
from a steady ﬂ ow of instructions throughout the 
Southeast Asia region, aided by the presence of 
Braemar Falconer’s ofﬁ ces in a number of key 
locations such as China, Vietnam and Australia.
Ofﬁ ces
Maldon
Singapore
London
Batam
Calgary
Houston
Jakarta
Kuala Lumpur
Lima
Mexico
Miami
Mumbai
Shanghai
Shenzhen 
Vung Tau
West Perth
Technical – Wavespec, Braemar Falconer and Braemar Steege
Revenue up 124%
£21.2m
2008: £9.5m
Operating proﬁ t up 392%
£4.2m
2008: £0.8m
1. Braemar Falconer have 
had an excellent year with 
a substantial increase in 
surveys undertaken.
2. Wavespec continue to 
grow as a leader in LNG 
technical consultancy.
1. 2.
12 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 There are about 3,800 oil platforms in 
the Gulf of Mexico and on average, a 
major hurricane (Category 3 or above) 
currently strikes approximately once 
every three years. In 2008, hurricanes 
Gustav and Ike, destroyed or seriously 
damaged some 91 platforms, and in 
2005, upstream losses due to hurricanes 
Katrina and Rita exceeded US$12.7 billion. 
Braemar Steege’s Houston ofﬁ ce is at the 
forefront of assisting clients in establishing 
hurricane losses and facilitating the 
settlement of insurance claims.
 05:40
 Houston
GMT- 6 
USA
-6
13 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Revenue increased by 46% to £40.8 million 
(2008: £27.9 million) and operating proﬁ ts before 
amortisation were down slightly at £1.1 million 
(2008: £1.2 million). The results would have been 
signiﬁ cantly better had it not been for the need 
to recognise a contract dispute which we remain 
conﬁ dent we can see resolved in our favour. 
The integration of Cory Logistics and Fred. Olsen 
Freight culminated in the bringing together of 
90 Cory and Fred. Olsen staff in new leasehold 
premises in Felixstowe in March 2009. Export 
forwarding and one-off projects continue to be the 
mainstay of the performance to date. However, 
the addition of the Fred. Olsen import business 
has increased the services offered to customers. 
We further expanded our service with the addition 
of Freight Action Limited in October 2008 – this 
being a niche logistics and project forwarder 
of outsize equipment for a predominantly UK 
client base. 
Port agency has maintained its leading position 
having successfully won a major European hub 
contract within the competitive UK market handling 
in excess of 10,000 port calls annually (including 
hub managed calls – 2008: 7,642) with some 
signiﬁ cant new activity especially within LNG. In 
July 2008 we established our ﬁ rst overseas agency 
ofﬁ ce in Singapore following the acquisition of 
the business of Sealion Shipping Pte Ltd. With 
eight employees it provides the full range of port, 
liner agency and logistics services and to date 
the performance has been above expectations. 
Morrison Tours, the seasonal excursion business 
linked closely to the cruise industry added to its 
customer base and performed above expectations.
Ofﬁ ces
Tilbury Docks
Felixstowe
Bebington
Billingham
Edinburgh
Falmouth
Grangemouth
Hull
Immingham
Invergordon
Ipswich
Isle of Grain
Jarrow
Liverpool
Lutterworth
Milford Haven
Newport
Portbury
Sheerness Docks
Singapore
Southampton
Teesport
Logistics – Cory Brothers
Revenue up 46%
£40.8m
2008: £27.9m
Operating proﬁ t down 2%
£1.1m
2008: £1.2m
1. Cory Logistics 
specialise in reliable 
and practical solutions.
2. Project cargoes are 
handled with meticulous 
attention to detail ensuring 
they arrive safely and 
on time.
3. Cory cruise agency 
is proud of its record 
in handling passengers 
efﬁ ciently and securely 
at the London Cruise 
Terminal.
4. Cory port agency 
bring experience and 
local knowledge to all 
jobs ensuring efﬁ cient 
turnaround.
1. 2.
3. 4.
14 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Singapore is the world’s busiest port, 
situated at the crossroads of maritime 
trafﬁ c between east and west. More 
than 50,000 ships pass through the 
Straits of Malacca and Singapore every 
year. Singapore Port handles about 
one-ﬁ fth of the world’s total container 
transhipments. Cory Brothers has 
established an ofﬁ ce in Singapore to 
maximise the business opportunities 
available in the area in both their port 
agency and logistics businesses. 
Signiﬁ cant business is undertaken there 
with major and diverse customers such 
as The World Food Program and The 
Red Cross, oil companies and major 
industrial organisations.
 20:00
 Straits of Malacca
GMT+8 
Singapore
+8 +7
15 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
0 +12 +11 +10 +9 +6 +5 +4 +3 +1 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 Chief Executive’s review
continued
Braemar Howells’ revenues decreased to 
£4.7 million from £10.8 million in the previous 
year and operating proﬁ ts before amortisation 
decreased from a proﬁ t of £1.9 million to a small 
loss of £0.2 million. The reduction in revenue and 
proﬁ t was mainly attributable to the conclusion of 
the single incident work related to the MSC Napoli 
container ship which contributed signiﬁ cantly 
in 2007/8. During the year under review a new 
response base was established in Liverpool.
The Company has retained its ISO 9001 Quality 
standard accreditation and its ISO 14001 
Environmental accreditation whilst gaining an 
International Safety Award for the third year 
running as a class leading company, on its way 
to achieving OHSAS 18001 Safety standard.
Ofﬁ ces
Milford Haven
Falmouth
Belfast
Bristol
Crawley
Didcot
Harlow
Huddersﬁ eld
Lagos
Luanda
Madrid
Merseyside
Perth
Portland
Portlaoise
Rotherham
Environmental – Braemar Howells
Revenue down 56%
£4.7m
2008: £10.8m
Operating (loss)/proﬁ t
 (£0.2m)
2008: £1.9m
1. Braemar Howells 
undertake a wide variety 
of environmental work.
2. Health and safety 
are paramount in 
these environments.
3. Braemar Howells 
are renowned for their 
professionalism in dealing 
with oil spills both on 
land and at sea.
4. Land remediation work 
has been undertaken for 
a variety of clients with 
great success.
1. 2.
3. 4.
16 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009 Waste management is an important part 
of awareness of the damage that may be 
done to our environment from shipping.
Braemar Howells have assisted a major 
West African shipping organisation 
to design install and operate a waste 
management facility which can safely 
and cleanly handle the waste matter 
from ships which arrive in the four 
major shipping areas in Nigeria. 
The entire operation complies fully 
with all international legislation and 
is in full compliance with the 
internationally established Marine 
Pollution regulations covering the 
disposal of waste from ships. 
 13:15
 Lagos
GMT+1 
Nigeria
0
17 Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2009
+12 +11 +10 +9 +8 +7 +6 +5 +4 +3 +2 -12 -1 -2 -3 -4 -5 -6 -7 -8 -9 -11 -10 +1
