 Chairman’s statement
Proposed merger with ACM
Your Board has been for some time considering ways in which 
we could strengthen and expand our Shipbroking division to 
keep in step with the growth of our shipping and technical 
services businesses. We believe that the merger with ACM,  
on which I comment more below, will achieve the step change 
we have been seeking and your Board is pleased to be bringing 
it before you for your approval.
Results for the year – Overview
The shipping markets – the principal driver of our Shipbroking 
division – remained subdued for the majority of the year. 
However, during the second half, a greater sense of confidence 
encouraged new investment and more long-term business and 
our forward order book began to increase. 
Our Technical division, which provides services to the offshore 
energy market, benefited from improved levels of activity and 
achieved excellent results. The non-core US-based offshore 
engineering business, Casbarian, was sold in March 2014.
Our Logistics division produced a solid performance and  
the Environmental division reverted to its regular level of  
activity, having been significantly boosted last year by the  
RENA project.
Revenue from continuing operations was £125.5m  
(2013: £139.7m) and operating profit was £8.9m (2013: £9.3m). 
Excluding the effect of the RENA project in 2012/13, underlying 
revenue from continuing operations grew by 4% from £120.8m 
to £125.5m and underlying operating profit grew by 29% from 
£6.8m to £8.9m. Basic earnings per share from continuing 
operations (and again allowing for the RENA effect) at  
31.9 pence was 23% higher than 2012/13. Continuing 
operations exclude the Casbarian business from both this  
year and last. The excellent growth in both sales and operating 
profit in the Technical division was offset by slower trading in 
Shipbroking and reduced activity in the Environmental division. 
Despite an outflow in working capital brought about by a shift in 
the mix of business towards the Technical division, the balance 
sheet remains strong with a net cash position of £13.7m at the 
end of the year.
We believe the proposed  
merger with ACM represents a 
transformational change in the 
development of our Group.
Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014 04 Proposed merger with ACM
We believe the proposed merger with ACM represents a 
transformational change in the development of our Group.  
Like Braemar, ACM is a leading shipbroker providing a wide 
range of shipbroking services for the global market. It is  
widely recognised as a market leader in tanker broking and  
has extensive international operations employing over 160 
brokers and support staff world-wide. With our 282 brokers 
and support staff and the enhanced global footprint going 
forward, we believe that the combined business will enable us 
to provide even higher quality service to our clients based on 
improved market coverage. Following the merger, we plan to 
establish broking desks which maintain succession and have 
strength in depth and will create a leading broking platform  
for the next decade. Details of the proposed merger have  
been announced separately to the market. We are sending  
a circular to shareholders in relation to the proposed merger.  
I recommend you read it carefully and vote in favour of the 
transaction as my Board colleagues and I will be doing, as  
will the Board of ACM. 
Board and management
Following a year of change at the Board level in 2012/13,  
the year was one of stability.
Looking ahead we plan to make some changes in the light  
of the planned merger with ACM. Having served twelve years  
as a non-executive Director, John Denholm will step down  
as a Director at this year’s AGM. John has made an invaluable 
contribution to the Board as a non-executive Director since 
2002 and as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and  
we thank him warmly for all he has done for the Group over  
the years.
We look forward to welcoming our new colleagues from  
ACM when the proposed transaction is completed.
Dividend
The Directors are recommending for approval, at the  
Annual General Meeting on 4 July 2014, an unchanged final 
dividend of 17 pence per ordinary share. This will be paid  
on 15 August 2014 to shareholders on the register at close  
of business on 18 July 2014. Together with the 9 pence  
interim dividend, the Company’s dividend for the year will be  
26 pence (2013: 26 pence). The dividend is covered 1.3 times 
by earnings from continuing operations before amortisation  
of acquisition related intangibles.
Colleagues
On behalf of the Board I would like to express my thanks to  
all our employees who have worked diligently for Braemar  
to achieve these results. It is the professionalism of the 
Braemar team around the world that makes a difference to  
our clients and helps build the Braemar brand and reputation.
Sir Graham Hearne CBE
Chairman
19 May 2014
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 05
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84
