 Chief Executive’s statement
Our objective is to continue to 
build the Braemar brand to be the 
most valued provider of knowledge 
and skill-based services.
Trading performance
It was a significant year of change for the Group with indications 
of a recovery in the shipping markets in which we operate and 
the Technical division demonstrating its potential. The Group 
overall achieved revenue of £125.5m down from £139.7m, 
although adjusting for the revenue generated by the RENA 
project in the prior year, the underlying growth in revenue  
was 4%. 
The Shipbroking division revenue fell during the year reflecting 
the continued weak markets for the majority of the year and  
the low forward order book at the start of the year. Revenue  
at £40.9m was 11.8% down on last year and represented one 
third of total Group revenue in the period. The second half of  
the year, however, saw some improvement in markets and a 
15% increase in revenue over the first half. This improvement 
was also reflected in our forward order book which has grown 
in total by more than 25% in the year to approximately $40m,  
of which approximately $20m relates to 2014/15. We have 
continued to pay attention to our cost base but our main 
objective has been to continue to invest in people and 
infrastructure in anticipation of improved markets. As a result 
the divisional operating profit at £2.6m was lower than the  
prior year, but is showing signs of improvement.
The Technical division had an excellent year with revenue up 
22% on the prior year at £40.0m. All aspects of the division 
improved year on year and accounted for 32% of the Group’s 
total revenue. We anticipate that this division will continue to  
be a driver of our future growth expectations. The largest 
contributors to this growth were firstly, Braemar Offshore  
which provides marine warranty surveying and consulting 
expertise to the oil and gas industry principally in Asia and 
secondly, Braemar Engineering which is a specialist consultant 
to the LNG shipping marketplace. Braemar Adjusting and 
Braemar Salvage Association, which provide surveying  
skills to the offshore, shipping and insurance markets, also 
performed strongly and importantly, recruited a number of  
new key staff, putting them in a stronger position to capitalise 
on opportunities in the year ahead. Divisional operating profit  
for the division was £6.8m, up 82% (£3.7m) on the prior year.
Revenue for the Logistics division rose by 3.8% to £38.9m  
with increased contributions from both ship agency and 
forwarding and logistics. The markets we operate in remain 
fiercely competitive but we maintained our market share.  
The best performance in the year was from the agency 
business in Singapore which grew strongly. Divisional operating 
profit for the division at £2.0m was unchanged on the prior year.
Braemar Shipping Services plc Annual Report 2014 06 The Environmental division returned to a normal level of activity 
after the completion of the project in New Zealand on the 
RENA. Revenue in 2013/14 of £5.8m compares with underlying 
revenue of £4.5m in the prior year. This level of revenue 
generated a divisional operating profit of £0.1m (2013: £2.7m).
Strategic development
Our objective is to continue to build the Braemar brand to  
be the most valued provider of knowledge and skill-based 
services to the shipping and offshore markets on a global basis. 
We have made significant steps in this direction during the year 
and will do so again in the year ahead.
In Shipbroking our new offices in Oslo and Houston are now 
integrated within the Group and are in a position to capitalise  
on our global network.
 
The proposed merger with ACM, referred to in the Chairman’s 
statement, will transform the scale and prospects of our 
business. It will enable us to build on the core strengths of  
the Braemar business and to establish the Group as a leading 
player in many of the shipping sectors within the core 
Shipbroking market.
There are four distinct businesses within the Technical division, 
serving overlapping sectors of their global market. They are  
all successful in their own right but are stronger by working  
in collaboration. We are looking progressively to benefit from  
this combined strength, without losing the individual drive  
and success of the component parts.
The Logistics division – operating as Cory Brothers – has 
opportunities to grow through international strategic alliances 
and by using the Braemar office network to establish other 
offices overseas with new staff. Where possible established 
relationships are being developed internationally. Since the 
year-end we have sold the small Morrison Tours business, 
based in Leith, which provided on-shore excursions for 
passenger cruise ships in Scotland, as it was not a strategic  
fit within the division. 
The Environmental division – called Braemar Howells – 
continues to look at ways to strengthen and improve its existing 
environmental consulting services while remaining alert to the 
potential for large project possibilities where its managerial 
expertise can be put to best effect.
Finally, we sold our interest in the Casbarian engineering 
business, based in New Orleans. The expected returns and 
value added to the Technical division did not justify the 
investment required and we therefore judged it to be no  
longer a strategic fit for the Group.
Outlook
The early signs of improvement in shipping markets are 
expected to continue and the Shipbroking division will benefit 
from its higher forward order book.
The Technical division is expected to make further progress  
in the year ahead, although growth may be lower than the  
year just finished which was exceptionally strong.
The Logistics division is also well placed to benefit from 
improving trade activity.
The proposed merger with ACM will add significantly to our 
prospects in future years.
James Kidwell
Chief Executive
19 May 2014
Cory Brothers Ship Agency smooths the passage of ships  
in and out of port.
Our Technical division helps reduce risk in the offshore industry.
Braemar Shipping Services plc  Annual Report 2014 07
Overview 01-07 Performance 18-25 Strategy 08-17 Governance 26-49 Financial statements 50-82 Shareholder information 83-84
