 16
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
57.3
73.4
2015
2016
80 60 0 20 40
Revenue (£m)
Chief Executive’s Review
GBG has delivered another strong financial 
performance this year and we continue to extend 
our leadership of the identity data intelligence 
market in the UK and globally. This is a direct 
result of the hard work and talent of the GBG team 
and I am very grateful for their continued effort 
and commitment.
During the year we increased our operating 
expenditure on developing new products, 
expanding our international operations and 
strengthening our management team. We also 
established a presence in the USA through the 
successful acquisition of Loqate based in  
San Francisco. These investments, coupled  
with growing markets both in the UK and  
globally, have enabled us to start the new 
year well and I consider we have good growth 
prospects in the year ahead.
Financial Performance 
GBG’s financial performance has continued to 
improve with revenues increasing by 28% to  
£73.4 million (2015: £57.3 million). Organic 
revenue growth was 16% with the balance 
primarily from the acquisition of Loqate in  
April 2015. 
As a result of this growth, we reported a  
24% increase in adjusted operating profit to  
£13.4 million (2015: £10.8 million), ahead of 
market expectations.
Deferred revenue in the balance sheet (in respect 
of amounts already invoiced under annual or 
multi-year contracts, but which will be recognised 
in future periods) increased by £3.9 million to 
£13.8 million, giving strong revenue visibility for 
the financial year ahead.
 We estimate GBG’s addressable market 
globally to be in the order of £7 billion and  
we continue to attract new opportunities 
across the world with both existing  
and new clients.
 Richard Law
 Chief Executive
Strong revenue growth
+28% Financial Statements Corporate Governance Strategic Report 
17
GBG
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The Company continues to be highly cash 
generative and cash balances at 31 March 2016 
were £12.4 million (2015: £15.8 million) following 
payments of £14.5 million for the cash purchase 
of Loqate, the settlement of earn-outs on prior 
acquisitions and the payment of dividends to 
shareholders. Net cash balances were £8.7 million 
(2015: £11.4 million). 
As a result of the above, GBG is well positioned 
to pursue its strategy of continued growth in the 
year ahead.
The Global Identity Data Intelligence Market 
Consumers and citizens are increasingly moving 
to transacting in real time across international 
borders. New business models, for instance in the 
sharing economy, are disrupting the way things 
are done and the world’s governments are moving 
towards making access to their services as easy 
and convenient as that for online banking.
These changes benefit us all but at the same time 
bring with them new risks of fraud, identity theft 
and cybercrime. GBG’s Identity Data Intelligence 
services constantly analyse many terabytes of 
information and provide specific intelligence 
to organisations in over 70 countries enabling 
them to address these issues and comply with 
legislation without detracting from the customer 
experience.
We estimate GBG’s addressable market globally 
to be of the order of £7 billion and we continue 
to attract new opportunities across the world 
with both existing and new clients. An illustration 
of this is the strengthening of our relationship 
with HSBC who, this year, implemented our GBG 
Instinct solution for application fraud in its 25th 
country. The bank’s use of our software across 
territories as diverse as Asia Pacific, Europe, 
the Middle East, and Central & South America, 
highlights the growing importance of having a 
consistent global approach to combatting fraud 
and identity theft. 
Identity Proofing (‘IDP’) 
Our IDP business, which provides electronic 
identity verification, fraud prevention and 
employee screening solutions, saw revenues 
increase by 32% to £33.2 million (2015: £25.2 
million). Adjusted operating profit was up by  
54% to £6.6 million (2015: £4.3 million).
GBG ID3global identity verification service 
continues to be implemented on a worldwide 
scale. This service can now provide identity 
verification solutions across 53 countries, up  
from 35 last year, offering coverage for 59%  
of the world’s population or 4.35 billion people. 
GBG’s fraud prevention products, GBG Instinct 
and GBG Predator, were installed into 47 countries 
at the year end with customers such as Barclays, 
HSBC, Ping An Puhui (China’s largest consumer 
lender) and Maybank (Malaysia’s largest bank). 
The growth in fraud internationally in the 
financial services sector continued to drive strong 
demand during the year and we achieved our 
first solution sale in South America with HSBC.
In addition, we developed our CitizenSafe 
identity assurance service as a certified 
provider on the UK Government’s GOV.UK 
Verify platform and we are currently deploying 
this service working with Government Data 
Services, part of the Cabinet Office. 
Identity Solutions (‘IDS’) 
Our IDS business, which provides identity-based 
registration, tracing and customer engagement 
solutions, made good progress, increasing  
its revenues by 25% to £40.2 million (2015:  
£32.1 million) and increasing adjusted operating 
profit by 9% to £7.7 million (2015: £7.1 million).
The IDS business units performed well with  
high levels of client satisfaction, demonstrated 
not only by the growth in revenues from our 
existing client base but also by the successful 
cross-sell of additional identity data intelligence 
solutions into new areas. I am encouraged by the 
increasing number of IDS clients buying more than 
one GBG product.
New customers for IDS include British Airways 
and JP Boden.
Acquisitions 
Our track record in identifying, executing and 
successfully integrating acquisitions continued 
during the year with the addition of US-based 
Loqate in April 2015. 
Loqate further strengthened our identity 
data intelligence credentials in the US and 
has integrated and performed very well since 
acquisition, exceeding our initial expectations 
of profitability. The US team has successfully 
integrated with our existing teams and this allows 
us to apply Loqate’s technology not only into our 
existing territories but to take our other products 
into North America. Loqate’s key distribution 
partners, Oracle and IBM, are performing very 
well and we have recently launched our own  
self-serve service, Everything Location  
(www.everythinglocation.com), utilising  
Loqate’s technology.
Current Trading and Outlook 
We started our year with strong momentum and 
excellent prospects and I’m pleased to report that 
trading since the start of the year has continued in 
line with the Board’s expectations.
Given that this will be my last statement as  
CEO of GBG I wanted to extend my thanks to 
the GBG team past and present who collectively 
have grown the business into a very substantial 
company from its small beginnings. 
I am very proud of all that we have achieved  
and am very confident of further profitable  
and sustainable growth in the year ahead  
and beyond. 
R A Law
Chief Executive
