 12
Gear4music (Holdings) plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
12
Chief Executive’s Statement
During the last year we took some significant strides forward 
in our mission to become a leading musical instrument and 
equipment retailer in Europe.
Following the Referendum outcome, we are confident that 
we are well configured to continue growing our business 
regardless of how the EU negotiations unwind during the 
coming months and years, and we are looking forward to 
implementing our exciting plans for FY17.
Our IPO in June 2015 put us in a strong 
financial position, enabling us to repay 
historic private equity debt in full and 
providing the financial resource 
necessary to continue to build a 
scalable, market leading business.
Our unique mix of a highly competitive 
own-brand range, products from the 
biggest names in the industry, and our 
bespoke online retail and distribution 
platform has helped us to achieve 
revenue growth of over 46% during the 
year, which was ahead of market 
expectations.
Our business is about making great 
music gear accessible and affordable to 
all musicians, from beginners and 
enthusiasts to professionals, and I am 
very proud of what our specialist and 
talented staff have achieved so far.
However, we want to achieve much, 
much more, and we will continue to 
accelerate the development of our 
systems, websites, logistics, people and 
product ranges to ensure a continually 
improving customer experience, as part 
of our mission to be the best. Financial 
Statements
Corporate 
Governance
Strategic 
Report
13 13
Gear4music (Holdings) plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
These results have been delivered by 
the continued execution of the Group’s 
strategy, and beginning to invest the 
growth capital raised on IPO in our 
platform, people and operations. 
Exceptional costs relating to the  
IPO totalled £606,000 in the year,  
and adjusting the results to remove 
these one-off costs shows a marked 
improvement in adjusted EBITDA  
and PBT.
Strategy update
This time last year we outlined our 
strategy based on five growth pillars, 
with the overall objective of improving 
our customer proposition and increasing 
our market share. Our team has worked 
very hard to implement this strategy, 
and as a result we are making excellent 
progress in achieving our objectives. At 
the same time, we continuously 
reassess and refine our strategic aims 
to ensure we capitalise on our core 
strengths, without taking undue risks.
Platform development
Our bespoke platform has the  
capability to scale significantly. We  
have successfully deployed numerous 
new features during the last year, 
including online consumer finance,  
a European payments platform, 
weekend delivery and dispatch, and 
on-page customer comments, in 
addition to hundreds of smaller  
design and functionality upgrades.
As we expand our development team 
during the next 12 months, we will  
focus on projects to increase  
operational efficiencies, and further 
improve customer convenience, 
engagement and loyalty.
Intelligent marketing
We used the IPO proceeds to increase 
investment in this area, a key driver of 
growth in the business. At the same 
time we have improved our return on 
investment in marketing significantly 
during the last year, with spend as a 
proportion of revenue falling from 10.0% 
in FY15 to 8.7% in FY16, as a result of 
higher website conversion and ever 
more effective targeting of our online 
marketing. 
In June 2015 we completed our in-
house video production facility, which 
has already created over 500 high 
quality product demonstration videos, 
adding a new dimension to our platform 
and own-brand proposition, driving 
customer engagement and conversion.
As planned we have developed a new 
digital personalisation platform that will 
be deployed during the current financial 
year and FY18 to ensure customers 
receive relevant information and offers 
through all our communication channels.
Product range extension
The IPO proceeds allowed us to 
increase the breadth and depth of our 
product range during the last year and 
we plan to accelerate that growth during 
the next 12 months to further improve 
stock availability.
We were very pleased with own-brand 
revenue growth of 33% during the year, 
with growth accelerating during the 
second half of the year as new product 
lines arrived, including our SDP-2 stage 
piano, our range of SubZero studio 
microphones, and a range of 
Gear4music stage lighting. Our own-
brand product pipeline continues to look 
very positive in the current year. 
We were also delighted with strong 
other-brand growth of 52% during the 
year, although this has created a 
temporary sales mix effect, impacting 
on gross margins.
Business Review
We have made solid progress on both our Financial and Commercial KPIs in our 
first year as a listed business:
Financial KPIs FY16 FY15
Total Revenue £35.5m £24.2m (+46%)
European Revenue £9.5m £5.5m (+73%)
Adjusted EBITDA £1.7m £0.8m (+97%)
Underlying operating profit £0.9m £0.4m (+138%)
Adjusted PBT £0.6m (£0.6m)
Cash at year end £3.5m £0.9m
Commercial KPIs FY16 FY15
Website visitors 10.1m 8.1m
Conversion rate 2.28% 1.96%
Average order value £116 £109
Active customers 226,000 169,000
Products listed at year end 31,500 27,200 Gear4music (Holdings) plc 
Annual Report and Accounts 2016
14 14
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
International expansion
European sales growth of 73% clearly 
demonstrates the progress we are 
making internationally, but with an 
estimated annual value of £4.3bn for  
the market we are still at the beginning 
of this journey.
We have continued to invest in our 
multilingual teams, marketing, website 
localisation and fulfilment systems to 
deliver growth. On the back of these 
successes we will turn our attention to 
reducing product delivery timescales 
into mainland Europe, potentially by 
opening a number of small satellite 
distribution hubs. This will allow our 
European customers to enjoy a similar 
level of service to our UK customers 
across a much broader product range, 
whilst at the same time reducing our 
European delivery costs. 
London showroom
Whilst it remains a strategic ambition, 
soaring central London property prices 
during the last two years have resulted 
in a commercially viable deal remaining 
elusive. Whilst we have come close to 
agreeing terms on a number of 
occasions, we have not been prepared 
to make a long-term lease commitment 
that does not make complete financial 
sense, and at this time we see better 
value for shareholders in focusing on 
our European expansion.
Operations
I am pleased to report that our systems 
and infrastructure demonstrated their 
reliability and flexibility throughout the 
year. Our websites served more than  
10 million unique visitors generating 
nearly 300,000 orders, with Black Friday 
2015 being the busiest day in our history.
To adapt to customers’ evolving 
expectations we introduced weekend 
dispatch and delivery in December 
2015, which now covers more than 90% 
of our in-stock product range. We are 
fortunate to have a supportive and 
committed logistics workforce who 
embraced the required change in 
working hours to make this a reality.
As stated at the time of IPO, our existing 
York HQ has the capacity for revenues 
of £50m, and as such we are already 
considering our future requirements and 
options in anticipation of continued 
strong growth.
Trading and outlook
We have seen strong sales momentum 
during the first two months of the new 
financial year, both in the UK and 
internationally, and we therefore remain 
confident for the year ahead. We look 
forward to the business going from 
strength to strength, building on our 
successes to date and delivering  
value for our customers, staff and 
shareholders.
Andrew Wass
Chief Executive Officer
