 8 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC  Annual Report 2016  Strategic report
GHG delivered an excellent  
year in 2016 in a number  
of important areas
Chairman’s statement
• GHG’s management team is growing 
stronger than ever.
The key drivers of GHG’s growth 
in 2017 and beyond
We will continue the development of 
new, high-quality medical services in 
Georgia, particularly focusing on elective 
care, to cover existing service gaps. 
Despite significant recent reforms in the 
Georgian healthcare system, there are still 
many service gaps in Georgia which, as the 
largest provider of healthcare services in 
the country, GHG is focused on covering. 
These are services which either do not 
exist or are currently of low quality. Patients 
often bridge this gap by travelling to 
hospitals abroad, the spending on which  
is estimated at approximately US$100 
million. Covering medical service gaps in 
Georgia by developing new services and 
institutionalising improved quality makes  
us proud of the work we do for our 
patients. We strongly believe that by 
investing in the healthcare market in 
Georgia, we will support an increase in the 
quality of care for the Georgian population, 
throughout the country. During 2016, we 
have launched over 60 new services in 
different locations and many more are 
under development. You will have an 
opportunity to read more about the service 
gaps and what we do to cover them later  
in this report.
We will continue the roll out of our 
outpatient clinics, because this is a 
highly fragmented and underserved 
market where we see a significant 
opportunity for growth. During Soviet 
times, we used to have “polyclinics”  
in Georgia. They were many – in 
neighbourhoods close to home. Citizens 
were assigned to one of those “polyclinics” 
for all kinds of outpatient services. With the 
collapse of the Soviet Union, many 
“polyclinics” closed, some significantly 
shrank and all became dilapidated. It may 
seem paradoxical that the Georgian 
healthcare services sector has seen much 
investment and development in recent 
years and yet the market of “polyclinics”  
or their equivalents is still so 
underdeveloped. This is because  
Georgia’s recent healthcare reforms and  
the subsequent investments were primarily 
targeted at hospitals to ensure the 
population had access to the much needed 
hospital level care. GHG is already the 
largest provider in this segment with the 
outpatient clinics that are the first of their 
kind in the country, but in a way our clinics 
are a modern version of the well-known 
concept of “polyclinics” . We see the same 
opportunity now in the fragmented 
outpatient sector that we saw in the 
hospital business a number of years ago. 
We aim to grow footprint and utilisation 
quickly, to achieve by 2018 c.5% share of 
this market that is expected to be valued  
at approximately c.GEL 1 billion. We aim  
to significantly increase cross-referral 
synergies with our pharmacies and medical 
insurance to drive high utilisation of 
our “polyclinics” .
Investing in information systems will  
be our next priority to identify ways  
in which we can provide better service 
to our patients and deliver more value  
to our shareholders. With the scale and 
diversity of GHG’s business, we are best 
positioned to lead the way in the 
digitalisation of patient records in Georgia. 
We have made this a key priority and are 
taking significant steps to make it happen.  
I am glad that we have a strong IT team 
that will lead this very important 
transformation throughout the organisation. 
GHG’s growth prospects are 
supported by attractive macro-
economic performance and the 
Georgian Government’s 
healthcare policy
During 2016, Georgia once again 
demonstrated its commitment to European 
standards and norms by ensuring full and 
fair democratic parliamentary elections. 
Georgia has continued to deliver a 
remarkably resilient economic performance, 
with real GDP growth at 2.7% in 2016.  
In addition, Foreign Direct Investment 
continued to be strong, and tourist 
numbers – a significant driver of Dollar 
inflows for the country – continued to  
rise significantly. 
Dear Shareholders,
I am honoured to report that GHG delivered 
an excellent year in 2016 in a number of 
important areas. I want to particularly 
emphasise three of those. First, GHG 
delivered an exceptional performance on 
the strategy announced at the time of its 
IPO in November 2015, building on an 
unprecedented period of growth over the 
past two years. Second, GHG diversified 
into the pharma business – an important 
move to unlock more value from our 
business and solidify GHG’s leading 
position in the healthcare ecosystem in 
Georgia. Last, but certainly very important, 
GHG’s management team continued to get 
stronger at the senior and middle 
management level – growing our 
management team is a priority of ours  
and I am particularly proud to see such 
meaningful progress in this direction. 
You can see the details of the financial 
performance, execution perspective and 
business priorities at a granular level in the 
CEO letter later in this report. I would like to 
cover four important points in this letter:
• the key drivers of GHG’s growth in 2017 
and beyond;
• GHG’s growth prospects are supported 
by attractive macro-economic 
performance and the Georgian 
Government’s healthcare policy;
• robust corporate governance drives  
our returns; and 9
Strategic report
Performance
Strategic report
Strategy Financial statements Additional information Governance
Strategic report
Overview
Georgia is an open and resilient emerging 
market with a realistic ambition to 
transform itself into a regional hub 
economy. Georgia is consistently ranked  
as a top performer in governance and 
“Doing Business” indicators, in economic 
policy and institutional assessments tracked 
by well-respected international institutions. 
Georgia was named a top performer 
globally over the past 12 years in the latest 
“WB-IFC Doing Business” report. The 
Government’s four-pillar reform programme, 
and its deepening economic integration 
with the European Union is expected to 
boost the economy’s productive capacity, 
support further economic diversification 
and attract more foreign investment. 
Access to healthcare remains one of the 
Government’s top priorities. Since the full 
rollout of UHC in mid-2014, government 
expenditure on healthcare has grown 
considerably, increasing to over 100% from 
GEL 487 .9 million in 2013, to GEL 996.0 
million in 2016. 
Robust corporate governance 
drives our returns
In my letter last year, I provided significant 
detail about the governance structure, the 
way the Board works and the composition 
of our Board. A year later, I am particularly 
proud about the important role that the 
GHG Board continues to play in growing  
the institution. Therefore, I would like to 
highlight several critical thoughts:
• At GHG, we remain strong believers  
that great institutions are only built with 
robust governance, and that without it 
they cannot deliver sustainable value  
for their shareholders. I am happy that  
at GHG we have built a Board that is 
independent, highly engaged, has 
diversity of thoughts, is able to provide 
strong oversight together with valuable 
advice, guidance and coaching to the top 
and middle-level management teams.  
I am proud that we continue to enrich 
the Board and management and 
continue to attract high quality people 
with relevant experience in the delivery 
of quality healthcare.
• We want our managers to act as 
shareholders, which they are. The 
remuneration structure that we have for 
the management at GHG naturally aligns 
the interests of shareholders and the 
management team. This is achieved by 
awarding, as part of their remuneration 
package, long-term vesting shares (up to 
five years) to the executive management 
team and ensuring that this share-based 
compensation makes up a large 
proportion (e.g. 80-85%) of total annual 
compensation. If shareholders make 
money, the management team makes 
money and if the shareholders lose 
money, the management team also  
 
 
 
loses money. In this way, we create  
a long-term alignment between the 
interests of the management team  
and the shareholders. This structure 
makes the Board’s job of oversight easier. 
GHG’s management team is 
growing stronger than ever
Attracting, growing and enabling the 
management team to perform at their best 
is our number one priority. Management 
makes things happen at GHG and I am 
proud that the majority of our management 
at GHG has been with us for several years, 
and the team has grown together with the 
organisation. From time to time, we also 
enhance our management team through 
hiring externally. Still, promoting internally  
is our preference. GHG’s team is young, 
motivated, capable and most importantly, 
eager to learn and do more, dedicated to 
the performance of the organisation and  
to helping each other to deliver. We get the 
benefit of a double effect from GHG 
attracting talent, and that strong talent 
attracting great new talent.
At GHG we have a culture of delegation, 
accountability and coaching – cornerstones 
of people development in our organisation. 
We provide opportunities for our 
management to grow through challenging 
and diverse experiences. We do this 
through promotions and rotations. We are  
a meritocratic organisation. We value 
results and we also coach our management 
to unlock their best potential. Our senior 
team members have access to leadership 
coaching. Our middle management has 
access to targeted courses around 
management and leadership development, 
developing into the next tranche of leaders, 
and enhancing the management team  
at GHG. 
I am proud to recap 2016, which proved an 
excellent year for GHG. I am honoured to 
continue to serve as the Chairman of this 
great institution and the team, and I look 
confidently to the future growth of GHG. 
Irakli Gilauri
Chairman
13 April 2017
