 04
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s Statement
2007, our first full year as a public company, 
has gone very much to plan. The business 
has grown substantially; we have strengthened 
the team, expanded geographically, continued 
to innovate and won industry recognition.
The Group has had another year of strong 
financial performance. Turnover increased 
by 42% to £6,566,000 (2006: £4,608,000). 
Operating profit rose 77% to £844,000 
(2006: £477,000 before listing expenses), 
and profit after taxation rose 127% to £660,000 
(2006: £291,000 before listing expenses).
The Group’s primary objective, put simply, 
is to develop into a top 10 global provider of 
market research, building on the foundations 
successfully laid over the last eight years. 
Whilst we recognise that our aspirations 
are ambitious and long term, we believe 
the key requisites for success are in place.
We have developed powerful new research 
techniques which address the innovation 
challenges of multinational consumer facing 
companies (the largest buyers of research in 
the world). We focus on the difficult, strategic 
and high value early stage of our clients’ 
innovation funnel.
We have built a team of highly experienced 
researchers, operating from offices in the UK, 
Holland and the US, using our sophisticated 
technology platform. All of our research is 
conducted on‑line, and can be undertaken 
across the world. To date we have undertaken 
research in 54 countries, and 34 languages. 
Our technology enables the Group to deliver 
innovative insightful research within shorter 
time spans and at lower cost than traditional 
off‑line techniques. It also provides us with 
a profitable and scalable business model.
Over the last financial year, we have continued 
to make significant progress on all fronts.
CliENTS
We are delighted with the manner in which 
our existing client relationships have continued 
to deepen, and with the new business we are 
winning against the large incumbent agencies. 
We have delivered research to 15 of the top 
100 global companies over the 2007 financial 
year and have been working with six of them 
for at least the last three financial years. 
We have a global mandate with one of these 
companies, where we have been commissioned 
on an on‑going and global basis to test all 
their consumer insights. This mandate was 
won in 2006 and is proving as significant 
as anticipated.
BRaiNJuiCER laBS
BrainJuicer Labs, our R&D unit, consisting 
of a number of internal and external research 
professionals, has continued to develop 
innovative new research techniques. We were 
particularly pleased to win ESOMAR’s 
“Best Methodology Award” for FaceTrace
TM
, 
a technique designed to measure emotional 
engagement. ESOMAR is one of the leading 
market research bodies in the world. Having 
previously won ESOMAR’s “Best Methodology 
Award” in 2005 for our Predictive Markets 
concept screening work, we believe we are the 
only agency to have won this award twice in 
the last 20 years. These awards demonstrate 
the growing credibility of our research 
methods in the industry, and the success of 
our innovation program. FaceTrace
TM
 is now 
being used within a number of our products.
BOaRD Of DiRECTORS
At the time of the Group’s floatation on AIM 
in December 2006, the Board recognised the 
need to separate the roles of Chairman and 
Chief Executive in order to further strengthen 
its governance and comply with best practice. 
We were therefore very pleased to welcome 
Ken Ford to the Board as Non‑executive 
Chairman. Ken was formerly Chief Executive 
and then Deputy Chairman of Teather & 
Greenwood, the investment bank, and brings 
a wealth of experience in corporate finance 
and a strong understanding of shareholder 
value, strategic planning and corporate 
transactions. Our Board of Directors now 
comprises three experienced non‑executive 
Directors, and two Executive Directors: myself 
and the Chief Financial Officer. The business 
is run by our management team consisting 
of three country managers as well as our 
Chief Financial Officer and myself.
TEaM
The team is continuing to grow steadily, 
building experienced account management 
teams in each of our geographic locations and 
capable technical and corporate functions in 
the UK. I am very grateful to them all, for their 
hard work, dedication and loyalty.
JOHN kEaRON
cHIef executIve OffIceR
7 March 2008
Second ESOMAR 
Best Methodology 
Award in three years 05
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007

i was really impressed with the insight and accuracy of their 
Predictive Markets, delivered unbelievably fast against some 
very urgent timings.

SiON agaMi 
SENiOR SCiENTiST (f aBRiC & HOME CaRE) 
PROCTOR & gaMBlE
