 02
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
79%
Diluted adjusted earnings per share up
Chairman’s Statement
The financial year to 31 December 2007 saw 
significant progress for the Group in its ambition 
to consolidate its position as an innovative 
and credible alternative to the large incumbent 
market research agencies.
Global spend on research was approximately 
$25bn in 2007. The research market has 
been growing consistently over the last decade 
and has seen explosive growth in on‑line 
methodologies, in which BrainJuicer is a leading 
exponent. A large percentage of the total 
market spend is from around 250 multinational 
consumer goods and service companies. They 
are very large, highly professional and at times 
extremely demanding, buyers of market research. 
With the possibility of a forthcoming recession, 
it is also worth stating that their research 
spend tends to be relatively stable through 
the economic cycle. These companies 
represent the Group’s core target market.
The Board believes the Group has a compelling 
service proposition, yet it is not complacent. 
We are therefore very pleased with the larger 
foothold the Group has forged within many 
of its clients. This has led to another year 
of strong, year‑on‑year organic growth in 
turnover, and with higher profits and margins, 
another year of validating the Group’s very 
attractive business model.
BrainJuicer is an energetic and ambitious 
organisation and is also growing in maturity 
and geographic reach, with offices in the UK, 
Holland and the US. It has long term ambitions 
and is carefully putting in place the structures 
and centralised infrastructure necessary to 
become a leading global market research agency.
I joined the business in September 2007 
and find the Group’s innovative approach 
and the attractive high growth market backdrop, 
a compelling proposition for our clients and 
investors alike. The Group is well positioned with 
its experienced team, growing shareholder 
base, and top clients, to capitalise on the 
very significant potential at its disposal.
kEN fORD
cHAIRMAN
7 March 2008 03
BrainJuicer Group PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2007

Working with BrainJuicer has been a wonderfully refreshing 
experience. They have shown they can deliver on the most 
logistically complex of projects, using their depth of research 
experience and innovative on‑line techniques to bring research 
to life and deliver against demanding research objectives.

MElaNiE WOEST
BRaND aND CONSuMER iNSigHTS MaNagER
HEiNEkEN (uk) liMiTED
