 Karim Bitar
Genus plc
Annual Report 2016
26
Robust Performance
Chief Executive’s Review
“ In 201 7 , we will further 
accelerate our efforts to develop 
and apply the science and 
technology that is essential 
to our longer-term success.”
Chief Executive
2016 was another good year for Genus. The Group performed 
well overall and we met our financial and operational goals, as 
the breadth of our business by geography and species helped 
drive growth, despite challenges in some of our markets. We 
also made strong progress with implementing our innovation-
led strategy, as we develop Genus into a company, based on 
leading-edge science and biotechnology.
Group Performance
Genus achieved a robust performance in 2016, with adjusted 
profit before tax including joint ventures (‘JVs’) rising 7% (10% 
in constant currency) to £49.7m. On a statutory basis, profit 
before tax rose 5% to £60.9m. Porcine volumes rose by 4%, 
although bovine volumes were 6% lower in tough dairy markets. 
Strategically important revenues such as porcine royalties rose 
strongly, however, total revenue was 3% lower.
Genus PIC had another strong and successful year, despite 
challenging conditions for our customers in most regions, 
achieving a 9% growth in adjusted operating profit including 
JVs in constant currency. Profits were up in all regions and 
the business achieved strong growth in royalty volumes and 
revenues. Over the last few years we have repositioned PIC’s 
European operations away from low margin up-front parent 
gilt sales towards royalty contracts, particularly with integrated 
pork producers, and we saw encouraging results in the year 
from this work. Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
 Genus plc
 Annual Report 2016
 27
With dairy customers facing depressed milk prices across major 
markets, Genus ABS had a tough year and saw adjusted operating 
profits fall by 16% in constant currency. We took tactical actions 
on costs and margins to protect short-term performance and 
strategic actions outlined below to position the business for 
long-term growth. IVB, the world’s leading supplier of bovine IVF 
services and products, was successfully integrated following our 
acquisition of 51% in March 2015 and delivered an encouraging 
performance in its first full year in Genus. Our Asian operations 
achieved very strong results across the region, more than 
doubling operating profit including joint ventures. Growth in China 
stood out, as we saw the benefit of our work to focus on large 
scale pork producers while reducing farming risk in this business. 
We also benefited from strong porcine market conditions in 
China. Performance in Russia also improved as porcine import 
restrictions were lifted. 
Strategic Progress
R&D is the starting point for our innovation-led strategy to 
enable us to increase genetic control and product differentiation. 
Genomic selection techniques continue to advance and our 
application of them to accelerate genetic gains in porcine 
continues in our nucleus herds and is now starting to feed into 
performance gains for our customers. We also apply these 
techniques in bovine, developing proprietary indices such as 
TransitionRight™ (see the case study on page 25) focused on dairy 
health traits and progressing our internal breeding programme, 
which is now producing some of our most elite bulls.
On 1 September 2016, we formed De Novo Genetics, a majority-
owned Holstein breeding strategic partnership, with De-Su, the 
world’s leading independent Holstein breeder. De Novo will further 
accelerate the proportion of bulls Genus produces internally by 
combining ABS’s and De-Su’s elite Holstein breeding programmes. 
This will gives us greater control of the genetics we need in order 
to create differentiated solutions that help commercial dairy 
farmers increase profitability through improved herd productivity, 
health and efficiency.
We made excellent technical progress with our GSS technology 
in 2016, as we prepared it for commercialisation. Our litigation 
against ST went to trial in August 2016 and, while there are several 
issues still pending with the Court, the initial verdict’s finding that 
ST had wilfully maintained a monopoly should give us a path to 
the commercial launch of the technology. This could be within 
the next few months if our request for an injunction releasing us 
from our contract with ST is granted. The jury’s findings that our 
technology infringes two of ST’s patents and specifying royalties 
to be paid to ST will be subject to further review by the Court and 
is not expected to delay commercialisation. We look forward to 
bringing competition to this important market.
Gene editing is becoming a key part of our technology platform 
that could transform Genus over time. Our collaboration with 
the University of Missouri produced a major breakthrough during 
the year, by using gene editing to create the first pigs resistant 
to the devastating PRRSv disease. We are working to develop 
this technology, aided by our new strategic collaboration with 
biotechnology pioneer Caribou Biosciences. This gives us an 
exclusive worldwide licence to use the revolutionary CRISPR-
Cas9 gene editing technology to develop new traits in pigs, 
cows and potentially other livestock species. Since the end of 
the year, we have also announced an exclusive worldwide licence 
with Washington State University, for patents and know-how 
relating to gene editing targets for BRD.
Genus continued to target key growth markets during the year, 
with particular progress in India and China. India is the world’s 
largest dairy market and the opening of our joint venture’s new 
bull stud was an important milestone for Genus. This new stud 
is one of the most advanced designs in the world. China is the 
biggest pork producer globally and we strengthened our position 
by signing landmark royalty agreements with three key Chinese 
integrated pork producers.
People and Organisation
With Genus Asia now well established and growing successfully, 
we intend to integrate its porcine and bovine operations into 
PIC and ABS in the coming year. This will support our strategy 
for each species and help us to deliver a consistent experience 
to customers around the world. Jerry Thompson, who has 
successfully led Asia, will take on a new role to further focus our 
efforts in establishing a greater presence with beef customers 
globally as COO Genus ABS Beef. He will work closely with Saskia 
Korink, who will now lead our global Genus ABS Dairy operations.
Our employee pulse survey continued to show that our 
people find Genus an engaging and stimulating place to work. 
They are committed to our vision and understand our strategy 
for achieving it. I want to thank all my colleagues for their 
contribution to delivering for our customers, which in turn 
enables Genus to succeed.
Outlook
Over the last two years, Genus has grown adjusted profit before 
tax in double digits in constant currency. In 2017, we will further 
accelerate our efforts to develop and apply the science and 
technology that is essential to our longer-term success. This will 
lead to a significant step up in R&D investment in 2017 resulting 
in profit for the year being similar to 2016 in constant currency. 
However, we anticipate a benefit from exchange rates, with 
Sterling having declined sharply towards the end of 2015/16. 
Overall, we expect to make further strategic progress in 2017 
and to perform in line with market expectations.
Karim Bitar
Chief Executive
7 September 2016
