 Bob Lawson
Genus plc
Annual Report 2016
04
Implementing a  
Successful Strategy
Chairman’s Introduction 
“ Genus delivered another 
strong performance in 201 6, 
with a second consecutive year 
of robust profit growth.”
Genus PIC and our Asian operations were the driving forces behind 
this growth, with Genus ABS seeing profits decline as its dairy 
customers faced further falls in milk prices.
The Group’s strategy focuses on creating differentiated products, 
targeting key markets, and sharing in the value we deliver to 
customers. We made further strong progress against each of 
these objectives. Our research and development programmes 
are producing genetic gains that offer increased productivity, 
efficiency and profit to our customers. We aim to be at the 
forefront of science in our field and in the year developed 
or acquired exclusive rights to gene editing technology and 
applications. We also made good progress in preparing our 
Genus Sexed Semen technology for commercialisation.
China and India are the world’s largest porcine and dairy markets 
respectively. We signed further royalty agreements in China and 
opened a world-class bull stud in India, positioning us for future 
growth in these markets. 
As well as increasing our strategically important royalty revenues, 
we continued to demonstrate the value of our genetics through 
new proprietary indices targeted at traits that create value for 
commercial customers thus helping customers to understand 
the benefits of our superior genetics and allowing us to share 
in the value we add.
Developing our Board and People
The latest independent evaluation of the Board and its 
Committees shows that the Board continues to provide strong 
and effective leadership. Succession planning and diversity are 
important focus areas for us and having previously identified the 
need for an additional Non-Executive Director, we were delighted 
to appoint Lysanne Gray to the Board during the year. Lysanne 
brings considerable experience of risk management, audit, 
business operations and the food sector, broadening the range 
of skills and knowledge on the Board.
Mike Buzzacott will be retiring from the Board at this year’s  
Annual General Meeting, after more than seven years as a 
Non-Executive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee. 
On behalf of the Board I want to acknowledge his significant 
contribution during this time, particularly in transforming the 
Committee into an effective value adding resource, whilst 
developing and embedding our risk management processes.  
We thank him for his contributions and wish him well for the future.
More information on the Board and our corporate governance 
arrangements can be found on pages 44 to 87.
Chairman of the Board Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
 Genus plc
 Annual Report 2016
 05
Customer 
Centric
We are one team, dedicated to 
helping customers thrive. We 
anticipate their needs and help 
them seize opportunities, acting 
as partners to improve quality, 
efficiency and output. If we’re not 
adding value for our customers, 
we stop and think again.
Results 
Driven
We are proactive, determined to 
be the best we can be and to exceed 
expectations. We redefine standards 
for ourselves, our customers and 
our industry. Every one of us takes 
pride in delivering the highest level 
of performance. If something can 
be improved, we find a simpler, 
better way to do it.
Pioneering
We are an innovative, forward-
thinking company. We have the 
courage and confidence to explore 
new ideas and the energy and 
enthusiasm to deliver them. We are 
creative, tenacious and resourceful 
in every area of our work.
People 
Focused
We are a business rooted in science 
but built around our people. We 
inspire, challenge and support 
everyone to perform, develop and 
grow. We treat others with respect 
and we invite views and feedback 
to help us improve.
Responsible
We are ethical to our core. We feel 
a deep sense of responsibility to 
our customers, colleagues, animals, 
communities and shareholders. 
We are honest, reliable and 
trustworthy. We mean what we 
say and do what we say.
Our Values
Genus employs over 2,600 people in 26 countries, whose expertise 
and dedication enable us to innovate and deliver for customers. I 
want to thank everyone for helping to make this another successful 
year. In recognition of our people’s importance, we continue to 
invest in developing their skills and ensuring we have a strong 
pipeline of critical talent coming through the organisation. To 
enhance our proprietary, differentiated products for customers, 
in the last year we have focused on recruiting, retaining and 
developing employees who can help us explore and harness 
outstanding science.
The Board recognises its responsibility for setting the behaviours 
and ethical standards we want to see throughout Genus. Our 
values (see right) underpin our culture, which is one of respect, 
openness and fairness.
Since the year end, we have been focused on the court case 
with Inguran LLC trading as Sexing Technologies (‘ST’) in Madison, 
Wisconsin. The jury’s verdict, delivered in mid-August, confirmed 
that ST had wilfully maintained monopoly power in the market 
for processing bovine sexed semen since July 2012, but that ABS 
had infringed two patents and breached confidentiality under our 
existing contract with ST. We are currently awaiting the court’s 
decision on our request for an injunction which, if granted, will 
allow us to terminate the existing ST contract and remove the 
contractual prohibitions preventing the launch of our GSS product 
in the short term. Full details of the case can be found in note 7 
but as shareholders will readily understand this is an important 
milestone in the development of the ABS dairy business.
Returns to Shareholders
The Board aims to balance the need to invest in the business, 
so we can capture the growth opportunities we see in front of us, 
with the requirement to offer shareholders an attractive return 
on capital and rising dividends.
We are recommending a final dividend of 14.7 pence per 
share, giving a total dividend for the year of 21.4 pence per 
share, following the interim dividend of 6.7 pence. This represents 
an increase of 10% over last year’s total dividend of 19.5 pence. 
The final dividend will be paid on 2 December 2016, to shareholders 
on the register at the close of business on 18 November 2016.
Summary
This was a pleasing year for Genus, with robust financial 
performance in often difficult markets, and good progress 
with our strategy. In the coming year, the Board will continue 
to focus on successfully implementing the Group’s strategy, the 
competitive landscape, managing risk and continuing to enhance 
governance. 2017 will see us step up our investment in research 
and development, as we look to further develop and progress 
our differentiated product offerings and position the business 
for long-term success.
Bob Lawson
Chairman
7 September 2016
