 10 
Georgia Healthcare Group PLC  Annual Report 2016  Strategic report
2016 was another extremely  
strong year for Georgia  
Healthcare Group
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
of the Pharmadepot chain of pharmacies – 
the fourth largest pharma retailer in Georgia 
(operating with 125 pharmacies) – which 
has made GHG the market leader in the 
pharma segment with c.29% market share 
by revenue. I am delighted that the 
integration of these two large retailers  
is going smoothly and is fully on track.
The 2016 results clearly reflect these 
significant developments, and I am 
pleased to report a net profit of GEL 61.3 
million, a 159.7% increase year-on-year 
from GEL 23.6 million in 2015. These 
results were, however, affected by the 
impact of a number of one-off items and 
business changes, net effect of which 
increased profit by GEL 21 .7 million, the 
largest of which was the deferred tax 
release due to a corporate tax legislation 
change. On an operational basis, the Group 
made extremely good progress during the 
year with net revenues up 74.8% to GEL 
423.8 million; EBITDA up 39.0% to GEL 
78.0 million; and profit before income tax 
expense up 70.2% to GEL 40.2 million. 
Within this strong year-on-year 
performance, the Group continued to build 
strongly on a sequential basis, with record 
high revenue in both the healthcare 
services business and the pharma 
business. Profit before income tax expense 
in the 4Q of 2016 was GEL 13.0 million, up 
156.9% on the 4Q of 2015, and up 25.6% 
on the 3Q of the year, giving the Group a 
strong earnings tailwind going into 2017 . 
The Group’s overall performance continues 
to be driven by the healthcare services 
business which delivered net revenues  
of GEL 243.5 million, supported by 16.3% 
organic revenue growth and a 280 basis 
point EBITDA margin improvement to 
30.2%. 
In our healthcare services business, the 
Group’s key strategic priorities are: to 
achieve one-third market share by hospital 
beds; to deliver a rapid launch of 
outpatient clinics in the highly fragmented 
and underpenetrated outpatient market; 
and to invest to close existing medical 
service gaps in Georgia. During 2016, we 
continued to make significant progress in 
each of these areas. The renovation work 
2016 was another extremely strong year  
for Georgia Healthcare Group, as the Group 
continued to build strongly in all areas of 
the wider Georgian healthcare ecosystem 
including, for the first time, in the 
pharmaceutical retail and wholesale sector. 
We are delighted with our progress 
towards creating the highest quality 
hospital and primary healthcare system  
in the country while delivering the best 
outcomes, with high patient satisfaction 
and the best facilities supporting significant 
improvement in the quality of care 
in Georgia.
During the year, the Group continued to 
grow its operations both organically and 
via acquisitions. We have made significant 
progress in the implementation of our 
strategy to develop a nationwide chain of 
outpatient clinics, subsequently growing 
our capacity to provide quality outpatient 
services to a much larger part of Georgia’s 
population. We increased the number of 
district outpatient clinics from seven to 13 
during 2016, as well as now having 28 
express clinics in operation. In May 2016, 
we completed the acquisition of GPC,  
one of the largest retail and wholesale 
pharmacy chains in Georgia. GPC operates 
a countrywide network of 118 pharmacies 
in major cities. The acquisition created a 
number of substantial purchase synergy 
opportunities, as well as significant 
potential for increased customer acquisition 
in our outpatient business. In addition, in 
January 2017 , we completed the acquisition 
on both our Deka and Sunstone hospital 
facilities in Tbilisi has continued. In August, 
we opened one of the largest diagnostic 
centres in Georgia as part of the Deka 
hospital – the first step in developing Deka 
into a flagship multi-profile hospital for the 
country which we will also leverage to 
retain those patients currently going abroad 
for healthcare diagnostics and treatment. 
The renovation at Sunstone has been 
completed ahead of time and we are 
pleased to have recently received the first 
patients into this new multi-profile hospital. 
The opening of Sunstone enables the 
population of the eastern part of Tbilisi and 
the whole of the Kakheti region to get 
access to significantly improved healthcare 
services closer to their homes. 
Another key milestone for our development 
is more focus on planned and elective 
services. GHG hospitals have the best 
reputation in the country in treating 
emergency and complex cases which  
we can further build on in terms of planned 
and elective services. We have already 
implemented a strategy for that and will  
be developing further in some areas and 
services which we believe will increase our 
diversification and efficiency. We are 
currently in the process of launching more 
than 60 new services in more than ten of 
our referral hospitals. These services are 
primarily targeted at filling service gaps that 
currently exist in Georgia either due to the 
unavailability of the service or its poor 
quality. Our new service launches include  
a number of sophisticated services such as 
oncology, transplantation of bone marrow 
and paediatric kidney transplants, as well  
as services such as paediatrics, neonatology 
and ophthalmology. Our main focus in 2017 
will be to increase our presence in the Tbilisi 
market, where we see substantial room to 
grow, especially in elective services. 
Our strategy to increase our share of 
healthcare revenues through the roll-out of 
a nationwide network of outpatient clinics 
has continued and we grew the number of 
our district clinics from seven in December 
2015, to 13 in December 2016, with 
revenues from this part of the business 
increasing more than 120% year-on-year. 11
Strategic report
Performance
Strategic report
Strategy Financial statements Additional information Governance
Strategic report
Overview
During 2016, we made significant 
progress in monitoring and improving  
a number of clinical quality indicators 
within our referral hospitals and more 
improvements are planned in 2017 .  
In this direction, we are involved in number 
of initiatives such as training professionals 
in clinical quality areas and in the internal 
process of development and 
implementation of clinical quality activity 
programmes and standards. In 2016 six 
such programmes were developed and 
already implemented in ten of our hospitals. 
During the year, we worked closely with 
the Centres for Disease Control and 
Prevention (“CDC”), the United States local 
representative office in south Caucasus. 
With our and CDC’s joint efforts, we 
implemented an infection control and 
prevention programme at three of our 
healthcare facilities. Our local team, which 
worked with CDC on this project, continues 
to implement the programme at our other 
hospitals as well.
2016 was a particularly busy year for us 
in terms of expanding into the pharma 
business and becoming the largest 
company in this market. In May we 
completed the acquisition of GPC, one  
of the largest retail and wholesale 
pharmacy chains in Georgia, and have made 
substantial progress with our integration 
activities. With important synergies from 
the GPC acquisition already having been 
captured, we are comfortably on track to 
deliver our initial guidance on synergies, 
and more than tripled the EBITDA margin  
in 4Q to 6.0%, from 1 .8% in 2Q 2016. 
We believe, however, that the biggest value 
enhancement from the GPC acquisition is 
the potential for increased customer 
acquisition for our outpatient business 
through GPC’s one million customer 
interactions per month and 0.5 million 
loyalty programme users and we have 
already started to explore this opportunity. 
In August, we launched a bundled product 
for our pharma and outpatient businesses 
to access around 500,000 GPC customers 
who have never been to our outpatient 
facilities, and we expect to direct over 
10,000 new customers per month from  
our pharmacies to our clinics.
In addition, in November 2016 we 
announced the acquisition of ABC, the 
fourth largest player in the Georgian pharma 
market and owner of the Pharmadepot 
chain of pharmacies. We completed the 
transaction in January 2017 , and as a result 
GHG has become the market leader in the 
pharma market (with c.29% market share 
by revenue) in Georgia. The Pharmadepot 
acquisition has a strong strategic fit with 
our existing business model. We aim to 
keep both brands, as they have a distinct 
positioning in two customer segments: 
GPC for higher-end customers and 
Pharmadepot for the mass retail. Together 
with the strong Pharmadepot retail 
franchise, we also brought their strong 
management team to the Group, and they 
are now leading our integrated pharma 
business. This new team brings an excellent 
track record of growth and execution that 
managed to grow a niche wholesale 
company into one of the largest pharma 
retailers in 4-5 years. The integration 
process is ongoing and I’m pleased to 
announce that it is going smoothly and is 
expected to be finalised in the second half 
of 2017 as anticipated. We are confident 
that we will achieve the key efficiency 
metrics that we have targeted for the 
combined pharma business and, as a result, 
create substantial value for our shareholders. 
Apart from significant cost synergies in 
areas of procurement and administrative 
expenses, we aim to focus on three main 
areas in the combined pharma business 
over the next two to three years: 
decreasing the cost of goods sold/cost 
of services by realising captive cost 
synergies and manufacturer cost 
synergies; enhancing the retail margin 
by launching generic, contract 
manufactured and private label products; 
and expanding sales to hospitals and 
other small players in pharma. We will be 
further expanding our footprint selectively 
both in large cities as well as in many 
regions of Georgia, and will realise 
additional revenue synergies in healthcare 
services from the traffic from our combined 
pharma business that we expect to average 
two million customer interactions 
per month. 
Our medical insurance business had a more 
challenging year, particularly reflecting the 
loss-making impact of one large corporate 
insurance contract. This contract has now 
expired and has not been renewed. As a 
result, we expect to see a stabilisation of 
earnings in 2017 , compared to a loss of GEL 
4.9 million in 2016. 
One of our main priorities: people 
development, continued to be high on 
our agenda throughout 2016. The depth 
of our senior management team continued 
to improve with the recruitment of several 
high performing key executives. In addition, 
25 executives from our mid-level 
management team completed a tailored  
six month course for them to improve their 
leadership and managerial skills. On the 
clinical side, we continued to focus on the 
education and training of our doctors and 
nurses. Our residency programme, which  
is a very important part of our strategy to 
develop a new generation of doctors, 
became the most popular residency 
programme in the country among resident 
doctors and, with 58 residents currently in 
our system, we anticipate accepting a 
further c.100 in 2017 . Our nursing training 
college is also now fully functional, and we 
will be further increasing its scale during 
 
 
2017 . People development, one of our key 
success factors, will remain a top priority  
in 2017 as well.
Focus on IT development, will be 
another key objective for us in 2017  
and beyond and the recent management 
reshuffle and strengthening in this field was 
done to further support this goal. In 2016 
we successfully rolled out an integrated 
Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) 
system and a core billing and registration 
module in our healthcare business. We are 
going to increase this IT focus over the next 
few years, as we believe that our superior 
IT competencies will be key for our success 
as we look for GHG to move to the next 
level of development in the provision of 
integrated services across the whole 
patient pathway. 
We remain comfortably on track to 
deliver a more than doubling of 2015 
healthcare services revenues by 2018. 
Healthcare services net revenue 
increased by 27 .2% year-on-year in 2016, 
with organic revenue growth of more 
than 16%. In addition, the rapid roll-out  
of our nationwide outpatient clinic model,  
and our significant new participation in the 
Georgian pharmaceuticals market will 
continue to create further business 
development and cost efficiency 
opportunities over the next few years.  
At the same time, we continue to expect 
the overall Georgian healthcare services 
market revenues to grow at a double-digit 
rate per annum over the next few years, 
development of which, alongside with UHC 
programme, remains as one of the top 
priorities for the Georgian Government. 
The Group delivered a strong performance 
in 2016, and remains in good shape to 
benefit over the next few years from the 
combination of its position as the largest 
healthcare services provider, 
pharmaceuticals wholesaler and retailer  
and medical insurer in what continues to  
be a fast-growing, predominantly privately-
owned, Georgian healthcare market.  
As a result, the Group is well positioned  
to deliver further strong growth in 2017  
and beyond. 
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze 
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017
This Strategic Report, set out on pages  
2 to 80 was approved by the Board of 
Directors on 13 April 2017 and signed  
on its behalf by Nikoloz Gamkrelidze,  
Chief Executive Officer.
Nikoloz Gamkrelidze 
Chief Executive Officer
13 April 2017
