 10 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Partnership and 
collaboration 
are key to public 
transport
everything we do. We strongly believe that today’s challenges 
are best met by working together. While seeking to maximise 
the benefits of operating together as one large organisation, 
our companies are locally managed and form an integral part 
of the communities they serve. T estament to our collaborative 
approach and understanding of local markets are the high 
levels of customer satisfaction in our regional bus operations, 
which remain the best in the sector at 89%.
Public transport is vital to building a strong and sustainable 
economy. Our services have continued to ensure that millions 
of people are able to get to work and access key services. 
Over the past year Go-Ahead has made a significant 
contribution to the UK economy through the 27,500 people 
we employ, the £222.4m generated by our rail operations for 
the government, and £24.8m paid in corporation tax. We are 
also pleased to have introduced the voluntary Living Wage as a 
minimum, irrespective of age, across the entire Group.
It has been a year of financial progress in all three divisions.  
Our market positions have been strengthened, with organic 
growth supported by contract wins and extensions. As part of 
a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won new 
business in Singapore and Germany. We operate in relatively 
resilient markets, and have a good balance between contract 
and passenger revenues.
Focus on partnership
At Go-Ahead we believe that public transport is about 
partnership. After almost 30 years of building Go-Ahead’s 
presence, the Group has established a valuable network of 
relationships, and a depth of market understanding and 
knowledge that cannot easily be replicated. Building 
relationships with passengers, central and local government, 
employees, industry partners and other stakeholders has 
always been core to the Group’s strategy and central to 
Group Chief Executive’s review
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
More information 
on page 51 £222.4m
Contribution to  
the DfT
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 11
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 11
social services. These businesses have also taken the initiative to 
comprehensively examine their services through the eyes of 
the customer and understand how they can be better.
In the regional bus market the regulatory framework is also 
evolving with the Bus Services Bill that is passing through 
Parliament. It is a very different Bill from the one envisaged a 
year ago as a result of the industry’s engagement with the DfT, 
with the Passenger Transport Executives and other 
stakeholders in order to protect the ethos of partnership 
working. It is vital that our bus companies remain embedded in 
local communities. We continue to work with the DfT on the 
important secondary legislation that underpins implementation 
of the Bill. T oward the end of 2015 we welcomed the report 
and findings of the independent Quality Contracts Scheme 
Board on Nexus’s proposals for Tyne and Wear, which 
concluded that the scheme failed to meet all the necessary 
statutory public interest tests. We believe that the overriding 
lesson of Tyne and Wear is that rigorous and independent 
scrutiny of major transport schemes is a necessity. Clear 
accountability must be in place where there is a fundamental 
change to the provision of bus services to safeguard the 
interests of customers and taxpayers. With reductions in overall 
public spending, a continuing flow of private sector capital 
investment will remain crucial to meet important public policy 
objectives, as well as keep pace with demographic change and 
new technology that is rapidly transforming the passenger 
expectations. Our strength in this sector ensures that we can 
be agile and are able to pursue other opportunities as and 
when they arise.
Rail
Our three rail franchises carry about a third of all passengers in 
the UK and we have more than 19 years’ experience of 
managing complex commuter franchises and delivering 
industry-leading projects.
The overall financial performance of our rail business was 
robust and slightly ahead of the Board’s expectations. Full year 
adjusted operating profit* for our rail businesses was £57.0m 
(2015: £41.7m). We are committed to the long term 
development of rail travel and are investing to improve services 
for passengers. In partnership with the DfT, Go-Ahead is at the 
forefront of some of the largest long term improvements in rail 
infrastructure in the UK.
The GTR franchise has experienced a difficult year 
operationally, and we share the frustration of customers who 
have experienced repeated disruption to their journeys and 
we apologise for this. The complex nature of the franchise has 
created significant challenges. The major Thameslink 
infrastructure programme will ultimately bring vital extra 
capacity, but it has caused large scale disruption through 
restricted network capacity, particularly in the phase of major 
works at London Bridge. Management continues to work 
closely with industry partners on implementing the complex 
change programme. This includes the introduction of more 
spacious trains and the evolution of the customer service role 
onboard and at stations across the GTR network, in adherence 
Our vision
Our people are critical to the success of the Group and we 
believe our new vision, attitudes and beliefs, once fully 
embedded into our corporate culture, will influence every 
aspect of our day-to-day activity and how we work. The 
common purpose of taking care of every journey will create 
advocacy among our customers, encourage people to use our 
services and ensure our people feel valued and appreciated.
Performance
Bus
At the core of the Group is our bus division, which delivered 
another good trading performance. This is the result of strong 
operations and service quality, as well as investment in new 
vehicles. Our bus operations have significant flexibility to 
respond quickly to changing market conditions and to ensure 
we remain resilient. While this is a mature market, 
opportunities for organic growth exist, as evidenced by the 
increased volume in the London market and the gains that 
have been achieved in other parts of the country as a result of 
investment and targeted marketing.
We have had a record year of profits from our regional bus 
division, which delivered adjusted operating profit* of £53.3m. 
Our sector leading margins, and the achievement of our 
£100m target, are a reflection of the hard work at our 
operating companies. The business is maintaining its strong 
position by focusing on improving the service, stimulating 
passenger growth and developing relationships with local 
authorities. We invested £72m in buses in the year, maintaining 
the average age of our fleet at 7.8 years. We also continued  
to invest in our services with more Wifi and USB charging 
points on buses, advertising, promotions and offers, and  
social media campaigns.
Go-Ahead remains the largest bus operator in London, with its 
growing population of residents and commuters. Over the past 
year roadworks and excessive congestion have limited our 
ability to earn Quality Incentive Contract bonuses. However, 
the underlying business is strong. We have retained our 24% 
market share with annual mileage of around 85 million miles. In 
the second half of the year we opened a new £7m bus depot, 
strategically located in Barking.
By understanding the varying needs of different customer 
groups we have shaped our bus networks and services to 
match demand. Innovative partnership working also continues 
to bring benefits for customers and stakeholders. Actions taken 
to maintain our position include: Brighton and Hove bus 
company championing accessible travel with the provision of 
wheelchair access on 100% of the fleet and other on-board 
innovations for disabled passengers; entry into the inter-urban 
market in Oxford with the launch of a new Birmingham 
express service; the installation of new ‘happy or not’ customer 
feedback machines on Plymouth City bus services; and a 
creative response to reduced public funding by Go South 
Coast to provide a unique combination of commercial and 
68.8%
Group profit from  
the bus division
£100.4m
Adjusted bus profit
More information 
on page 15
* Adjusted operating profit is reconciled to operating profit before 
amortisation, goodwill impairment and exceptional operating costs 
in the finance review. 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 12 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
The web and mobile platform provides highly personalised, 
realtime information to help customers find the best value 
ticket option available. Following introduction on Southern 
and Thameslink routes, On Track has been rolled out to all 
of Go-Ahead’s rail operations and integrated within its mobile 
app and ‘the key’ smartcard.
Whilst we were disappointed that our bids for the new 
Trans-Pennine Express and Northern Rail franchises were 
unsuccessful, the Board still believes that the UK rail sector can 
provide long term growth opportunities for the Group. The UK 
rail industry clearly has some considerable challenges, both 
financial and operational. We are an established operator and 
will be seeking to develop our role in the future of the sector.
Overseas contract wins
As part of a targeted programme, we are pleased to have won 
new business in Singapore and Germany. With efficient and 
effective transport remaining a priority for governments, there 
are further opportunities overseas. We continue to explore 
similar opportunities in these and other selected markets.
Go-Ahead was awarded a five-year contract to operate bus 
services in Singapore and is set for a successful launch of the 
25-route bus service operation from September 2016. 
Singapore’s bus contracts system is largely modelled on 
London’s and, as London’s largest bus operator, Go-Ahead has 
the right experience and expertise to deliver high quality 
services in Singapore. We look forward to competing in the 
next tender tranche of bus services, to be awarded early  
next year.
We were also successful this year in our aim to enter the 
German rail market, having been awarded two contracts to 
operate rail services in the Baden-Wurttemberg region from 
June 2019 until 2032. The German passenger rail market 
generates annual revenue of around €9.6bn and we are well 
placed to capitalise on future opportunities in this market.
A resilient business
Following the result of the EU referendum vote in June we are 
entering a period of economic uncertainty. The true impact of 
the vote is yet unknown, but it will weigh on the economy, and 
the transport industry is not immune. Nevertheless, the 
characteristics of our business make it resilient and relatively 
well positioned for change. Our strength is our portfolio of 
operations with robust revenues in less economically sensitive 
bus markets in the UK.
Our London bus business has no direct exposure to passenger 
revenues, and has an excellent record of contract retention. In 
the regional bus business, experience of previous slowdowns in 
the economy suggests that overall demand for bus travel is 
resilient. The flexible commercial nature of the industry further 
enables it to match supply to the level of demand. Go-Ahead’s 
position is reinforced by substantial investment in new fleet 
during the past few years, helping to improve the attractiveness 
to commitments in the franchise agreement with the DfT.  
We have instigated one of the largest driver recruitment 
programmes ever undertaken in the industry, but training a 
driver takes around 14 months so customers do not see the 
benefit of this straight away. We are confident that the 
Thameslink Programme will deliver real benefits for customers 
and the wider community. The DfT values the experienced 
management team in place at GTR which is best placed to 
steer these changes through. We are committed to the  
delivery of the franchise, enhancing service and building trust. 
We remain focused on delivering improvements, listening  
to our customers, and working with stakeholders to ensure  
the franchise has the resources needed to respond to  
growing demand.
Southeastern delivered a strong trading performance and 
continued to operate at maximum profit share, with payments 
of £39.9m made to the government in the year. For the 
remainder of the franchise the focus is to continue to improve 
the service for customers. The stated desire of the London 
Mayor and the London Assembly to devolve responsibility for 
the metro routes to TfL requires Secretary of State approval.  
If given, Southeastern would work with TfL and the DfT  
to ensure a smooth transition. From 2017, Go-Ahead’s  
rail development team will be working on a bid to retain  
the franchise.
London Midland continued its trend of improvement, reflected 
in strong customer satisfaction scores that have repeatedly 
increased. The franchise, which Go-Ahead has been operating 
since 2007, has been successful in terms of both operational 
and financial performance. Since 1 April 2016 the franchise has 
been operating under a new direct award contract. 
Management is focused on ensuring that committed obligations 
are delivered in a timely manner. In the fourth quarter 
Go-Ahead was pleased to be shortlisted to bid for the new 
West Midlands franchise beginning October 2017.
During the year, our joint venture On Track Retail launched its 
new online ticket sales system ‘On Track’ in October 2015. 
Group Chief Executive’s review continued
“We remain focused on delivering continued 
improvements, listening to our customers, 
and working with stakeholders to ensure 
the GTR franchise has the resources 
needed to respond to growing demand.”
Training and development
More than £18m spent on training  
and development of
More information 
on page 5
27,500 employees
Voluntary Living 
Wage adopted The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 13
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 13
Our new vision, beliefs and attitudes
Created in collaboration with employees at different 
levels across the Group and external stakeholders, 
these shape our focus, how we make decisions and 
how we behave.
and marketability of our services. In rail, we operate commuter 
routes in and out of London that are less discretionary in 
nature. Their unique position in relation to revenue support 
and profit share mechanisms will considerably mitigate the 
impact of any change in passenger numbers on our  
rail revenues.
As the external environment remains uncertain, we will be 
proactive in ensuring that the business remains robust. Our 
business offers value-orientated public transport services that 
are vital to the economy. We will remain focused on the 
delivery of existing services, while being agile to identify 
opportunities that this changing landscape brings.
Whilst there are clear links between economic activity and 
demand for our services, transport also enables growth. 
Change presents challenges for every part of the economy, 
transport included. It also provides strong motives for fresh 
thinking, and opportunities for innovation. In these times of 
regulatory, economic and social change, our future lies in our 
ability to engage with stakeholders and customers and develop 
solutions for their changing needs. With its wealth of 
knowledge and experience gained, Go-Ahead is well qualified 
and highly motivated to rise to the challenge.
Outlook
Go-Ahead has made substantial progress over the past year. 
The outlook and opportunities for the business are positive. 
Our strategy is clear and our business model robust. Our 
businesses have a track record of demonstrating the benefits 
that the private sector can bring to public transport. We will 
continue to work closely with partners at all levels to deliver 
value for money for our customers and stakeholders.
The new financial year has begun with similar trends to the 
second half of 2015/16. We expect continued moderate 
revenue growth in our bus division. Significantly reduced fuel 
costs will help offset headwinds such as contract reductions 
from lower local authority contracting. In London, we expect to 
see a year on year improvement in QICs payments as 
roadworks and congestion stabilise, which will help offset 
higher depreciation. Trading in the Southeastern and London 
Midland franchises continues to be robust and help offset 
weakness in GTR. We continue to explore overseas 
opportunities in selected markets.
David Brown, 
Group Chief Executive
8 September 2016
More information  
on pages 32 to 35
Our beliefs
‘A world where every journey is taken care of’ - is our 
new vision. T oday we are striving to provide a reliable 
service people can trust. T omorrow we will be building 
stress-free, predictive and seamless connected journeys.
We will take care of our customers’ every need 
transforming everyday journeys into positive experiences.
We believe in trusting people, being can-do people, 
building relationships and being one step ahead.
We are accountable, down-to-earth, collaborative 
and agile.
We believe in trusting our people to do their best  
and be accountable for what they are delivering.
We believe in being can-do people, who solve problems 
and are pragmatic with a down-to-earth attitude 
towards each other.
We believe in building relationships within our 
businesses, with our suppliers, partners and stakeholders 
and working collaboratively to achieve a greater good.
We believe in staying one step ahead of our 
competitors and emerging trends by working in an  
agile manner to identify opportunities to lead change.
Our vision
Our attitudes Group Chief Executive’s review continued
Topical 
questions 
from our 
shareholders 
answered
14 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 How do you account for your resilient 
performance in regional bus?
“Our margins in regional bus now stand at 14.2%, 
When we started the journey to our £100m 
profit target in 2012, our Regional bus margins 
were at 11%. I am very pleased that this profit 
growth has been achieved sustainably. Revenue 
growth has been driven by strong contract 
income, while fares have increased in line with 
inflation. Go-Ahead has been successful because 
we continue to invest in our services, making life 
easier for our customers. We do it, for instance, 
through more Wifi, more audio-visual passenger 
information, online methods of payment and 
improved realtime information. We are giving 
passengers more choice and more flexibility, and 
are very pleased to have the joint highest 
customer satisfaction score in the UK of 89%. 
Partnership working with local authorities is how 
we have always conducted our business and it 
continues to bring benefits for customers. By 
understanding the varying needs of different 
markets we have successfully shaped our 
services to match demand.”
What are you doing to address the 
issues at your GTR franchise?
“The GTR franchise has been a challenge to run 
since its inception in September 2014. The 
industry and DfT accepts that the £6.5bn 
Thameslink Programme upgrade including the 
rebuilding of London Bridge station has had a 
greater impact on the resilience of those routes 
and neighbouring routes than expected in the 
planning and forecasting stage for the 
new franchise.
“More than 3,000 train services a day run on the 
railway line linking London and the Sussex coast 
and as demand has grown strongly on this route 
performance has declined. The number of 
passengers on the Thameslink route has grown 
by 32% over the past five years, and by 40% on 
Southern routes. So more, longer, trains have 
been added to the timetable but the 
infrastructure upgrades have proved to be 
insufficient to cope with the growth in passenger 
numbers. This has all led to congestion and a 
noticeable decrease in performance of the train 
service. When complete in 2018, the Thameslink 
Programme and GTR’s introduction of three 
new fleets of trains totalling 1,398 carriages will 
bring vitally needed extra capacity to the region 
but in the meantime it has added an additional 
strain with fewer routes into and out of London 
Bridge station.
“Despite around 60% of GTR trains being driver 
only operated services, the unions have entered 
into industrial action, disrupting services from 
spring 2016. This stance is regrettable and has 
significantly impacted on the service that the 
company is able to provide for passengers. Trains 
where drivers open and close doors are not 
new, and have been deemed safe by rail safety 
experts and the independent regulator which 
oversees safety on the railway. The new role 
of onboard supervisor will still have safety 
training but the main role of these 
employees is to help passengers and improve 
onboard customer service. There are no job 
losses or pay cuts, in fact we need more people 
for our onboard supervisor roles.
 New modern trains which allow the 
introduction of modern working practices are 
being introduced across the UK and Europe and 
will bring beneficial changes for customers.
What is the future of franchising?
“The case for railway franchising is a strong one 
with net payments to the government totalling 
over a £billion* and an NAO report (November 
2015) stating that competitively awarded 
franchises, if managed well, could increase 
returns to the taxpayer.**
“Privatisation has been a success and government 
investment has combined with commercial drive 
to create the safest and fastest growing railway 
in Europe. The number of passengers has 
doubled but this has created limitations on 
capacity that are being addressed now with 
billions being spent to upgrade the network, 
improve reliability and modernise retailing and 
information. It is estimated that around a third of 
the four percent annual increase in rail journeys 
since the mid 1990s has come from the changes 
to the industry model (according to Oxera  
2014 report).
“As well as the potential for competitively 
awarded franchises to increase returns to the 
taxpayer, the key findings of the NAO’s reform 
of the rail franchising programme review were 
that the DfT has improved the transparency, 
consistency and clarity of information provided 
to bidders and the public; and strengthened the 
assurance and governance of franchising. T o 
continue to improve the programme the DfT 
has started to apply lessons learned from 
completed competitions and feedback from 
bidders. There is now also greater emphasis on 
passengers’ experience, with bidders 
demonstrating how they will deliver punctual 
reliable services and limit crowding while 
improving levels of customer service on stations 
and onboard trains.”
*  £1.2bn total net payments to the DfT from train 
operating companies in 2014-15
**  £8.5bn total train operating company revenue in 
England and Wales, in 2013-14
What opportunities do 
you see overseas?
“Our established approach to development has 
been to seek opportunities that deliver value to 
our shareholders. We do not make strategic 
investments which increase market share 
without generating clear returns. We look for 
markets that fit with our strategy and risk 
appetite and to which we can bring knowledge, 
experience and expertise.
“We are looking forward to running services in 
Singapore shortly and, in line with our devolved 
approach, have created Go-Ahead Singapore - 
an autonomous local bus company employing 
around 900 people, ready to operate 25 routes 
in the Loyang region. We have also established a 
rail company in Germany that has won two 
concessions in the Stuttgart region and will begin 
running passenger services from 2019. Germany 
has the largest rail market in Europe operating 
over 50bn passengers kilometres and generates 
annual revenue of around €9.6 billion.”
What next after Target 100?
“Achievement of the £100m target this year is a 
testament to the hard work of our people 
across the Group. We will continue to challenge 
our operating companies to grow sustainably by 
focusing on customer service and becoming the 
first choice for journeys. We have established 
businesses, based primarily in the south east, 
where there is economic strength to support 
continuing returns. However, we see some of 
our growth in the future coming from places 
such as our overseas contracts in Singapore in 
the coming year and Germany in a couple of 
years’ time. We will also be submitting a strong 
bid for the West Midlands franchise when our 
current contracts end in October 2017 and for 
the South Eastern franchise when our current 
one expires in 2018.”
Are you committed to the 
voluntary Living Wage?
“We are pleased to have introduced the 
voluntary ‘Living Wage’ across the Group, 
ensuring all employees, regardless of age, earn at 
least £8.25 per hour, exceeding the 
government’s ‘National Living Wage’ 
requirements. However, voluntary Living Wage 
recommended-increases in future years could 
add to wage inflation, so we will always continue 
to review this.”
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 15
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
