 Risk Impact Mitigation Change from  
prior year
6 valuation 
of Portfolio

Any error or negative trend 
in valuations of properties 
would significantly impact 
the results (NAV and EPS) 
of the Group.
The Group involves reputable third-party valuation specialists to 
measure the fair value of the investment property portfolio at least 
twice a year. Management closely monitors the valuation approach for 
each class of investment property and estimates and assumptions 
about key inputs used in the valuation.
Periodically, the Group also obtains second valuations from other 
reputable and experienced third-party valuations specialists, other than 
those used for financial reporting purposes, as an additional safety 
measure in this area.
The Group is also striving to maximise property values by employing an 
effective development strategy and/or a property management and 
leasing strategy.

7 Inability to Lease 
Space 

Potential loss of revenues 
leading to inability to 
maximise the EPS and FFO 
available for distribution of 
dividends to shareholders.
The Group has proven ability to attract tenants to its properties  
even before the inauguration of the construction works for properties 
under development.
The Group maintains a low level of vacant space for its completed 
properties (which decreased further during 2016, a record year in terms 
of leasing), through the effective management of vacant space by its 
very experienced marketing and leasing team based in Romania.  
In addition, the leasing team cooperates closely with leading estate 
agents in the local market to tap all emerging opportunities.

8 Inability to 
Complete 
Projects Under 
Development on 
Time
Inability to deliver to 
tenants the pre-leased 
office space by the agreed 
dates due to delays caused 
by contractors or their 
possible default, leading to 
potential costs overruns, 
penalties and loss of 
revenues.
Risks for delay in completion of properties under development are 
passed on to the main contractors with whom fixed-cost turnkey 
contracts are signed and from which good execution guarantees are 
received. A portion of amounts payable to them, ranging from 5%  
to 15% of contracted value, are retained from the contractor’s monthly 
certified works until after the successful completion of the construction 
works.
Only experienced, reputable and financially sound contractors are 
selected for the construction of properties under development, which are 
supervised on a daily basis by the project management team in Romania.
Further, significant penalties are stipulated in the related construction 
contracts to minimise any loss due to the delayed completion of the 
development works.

Financial, Financing & Liquidity Risks
9 Lack of Available 
Financing 

This would negatively 
affect the Group’s ability to 
execute, to the full extent, 
its investment plan.
The Group’s management team hold frequent meetings with current 
and potential equity investors as well as continuous discussions with 
leading global and Romanian financing institutions in connection with 
its financing requirements.
Since admission, the Group has raised over €1.1bn in equity and debt 
(including new loan facilities and rolled-over loan facilities on the 
acquisition of subsidiaries) to meet its financing requirements.

10 Breach of Loan 
Covenants 

May negatively affect the 
Group’s relationship with 
financing banks, may have 
going concern implications, 
and affect, negatively, its 
ability to raise further debt 
financing at competitive 
interest rates.
The Group monitors on a regular basis its compliance with loan 
covenants and has increased its resources on monitoring in the area of 
loan contractual terms (including covenants) compliance.

RISK REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 
CONTINUED
The following key is used in the table below to highlight the changes in risk exposures during the year ended 31 December 2016: 

 Risk exposure has increased in the current year

 Risk exposure has reduced in the current year

 No significant change in risk exposure since prior year 
In addition, the risks marked with  have been considered relevant for the Viability Statement analysis.
Risk Impact Mitigation Change from  
prior year
Business Risks
1 Exposure to  
the Economic 
Environment in 
Romania
A negative trend in the 
economic activity in 
Romania may affect the 
Group’s tenants and 
potential new tenants and 
in turn can exert downward 
pressure on rent rates.
A significant number of the Group’s tenants are subsidiaries of 
multinational groups with either insignificant exposure to developments 
in the Romanian economy and/or very sound financial standing. The 
Group also ensures that long-term leases are signed with new tenants 
and that current leases are renewed prior to their expiry for a longer term 
and at index-linked rental rates, so as to minimise the risk of possible 
negative variations in rent rates over the short and medium term.

2 Changes in the 
Political or 
Regulatory 
Framework in 
Romania or the 
European Union
The Group was set up to 
carry out investments in the 
Central and South-Eastern 
Europe region, focusing 
first on property 
investments in Romania.  
It is therefore exposed to 
political and regulatory 
framework changes that 
may occur in this region.
Even though the Group is currently focusing on investments in Romania 
(independent EU bodies place it among the most rapidly growing 
economies in Central and South-Eastern Europe), the Group is 
considering diversifying its property portfolio with investments in other 
countries in the Central and South-Eastern Europe region. 
The Group’s Executives frequently monitor political or regulatory 
developments in the Romanian market through their own observation 
and also by frequent reviews of available third-party reports on the 
developments in Romania. In cases when changes in regulations occur, 
appropriate action is taken so as to maintain compliance with 
applicable regulations in Romania.

Property Risks
3 Acquisition of 
Properties
Inability to execute the 
Group’s plan of investing  
in high-quality assets  
would affect the Group’s 
objectives of maximisation 
in NAV and EPS.
The Group’s management team have a proven track record of acquiring 
high quality assets, most of them at a discount to their fair market 
values. The team remains in close contact with leading European real 
estate agents with presence in Romania so as to get spontaneous 
access to potential sellers. The team takes the lead in negotiations with 
sellers of properties and puts in place safeguards (involvement of legal, 
financial, tax and technical third-party reputable and experienced due 
diligence advisers) and ensures the related agreements are concluded 
within a short period of time. 

4 Counterparty 
Credit Risk 

Loss of income may result 
from the possible default  
of tenants.
The vast majority of tenants are reputable, blue-chip multinational and 
local groups of very good to excellent credit standing. Guarantee cash 
deposits or bank guarantee letters are received from all tenants for the 
credit period agreed in lease agreements.

5 Changes in 
Interest Rates 

Additional financing costs 
may be incurred as a result 
of interest rate increases.
The Group monitors on a regular basis the cost of its debt financing and 
considers the use of suitable hedging instruments (such as variable-
fixed rate swaps, interest caps) to minimise the potential increase of the 
cost of debt above acceptable levels. As of 31 December 2016, the 
Group’s weighted average debt financing costs amounted to 5.25%, 
representing a significant decrease as compared to 31 December 
2015 (6.18%) as a result of the refinancing of a significant portion of the 
Group’s debt during 2016. The Group explores on a continuous basis 
new refinancing options so as to maintain its average debt financing 
costs at competitive levels.

53 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 52 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW RISK REPORT
PRINCIPAL RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES 
CONTINUED
Financial, Financing & Liquidity Risks continued
Risk Impact Mitigation
Change from  
prior year
11 Foreign 
Exchange Risk
Significant fluctuations, 
especially in the Romanian 
Leu to Euro exchange rate  
in the direction of the 
depreciation of the Romanian 
Leu against the Euro, may 
lead to significant realised 
foreign exchange losses.
The Group’s exposure to negative realised foreign exchange 
fluctuations is limited to cases where the date invoices are issued to 
tenants or received from contractors and suppliers and the date of their 
settlement differ significantly. The limited exposure to foreign exchange 
fluctuations is due to the fact that the pricing in all major contracts 
entered into (with tenants and contractors/suppliers) is agreed in Euro, 
hence providing for a natural cash flow hedge to a large extent.
The Group actively monitors, on a daily basis, the fluctuations in 
Romanian Leu to Euro exchange rate and strives to minimise the period 
between the issuance and settlement of invoices to tenants and by its 
contractors/suppliers and the potential related, realised foreign 
exchange losses that may result.
It also enters frequently into transactions with financial institutions for 
the purchase or sale of Romanian Leu at favourable exchange rates 
against the Euro, compared to the market average, due to the relatively 
high value of such transactions as a result of a batch settlement process 
followed for invoices received from contractors/suppliers.

Regulatory Risks
12 Change in Fiscal 
and Tax 
Regulations
Adverse changes in 
favourable taxation 
provisions in the 
jurisdictions the Group’s 
legal entities operate in 
would negatively affect  
its net results.
The Group, through engaging professional tax advisers on a regular 
basis in all the jurisdictions where its legal entities operate, monitors 
very closely the upcoming changes in taxation legislation and ensures 
that all steps are taken for compliance and optimisation of the tax 
efficiency of its structure over time.
Through regular tax compliance monitoring and conservative policies in 
this area the Group ensures that the risks associated with potential 
additional, unexpected tax assessments is minimised.
Moreover, the Group is closely monitoring its compliance with changes 
in EU member states legislation (mainly for Romania and Cyprus) in 
relation to OECD/BEPS recommendations.

13 Compliance with 
Fire, Structural 
or Other Health 
and Safety 
Regulations
Non-compliance with related 
regulations in Romania may 
affect our reputation with 
existing and potential new 
tenants. It may also lead to 
loss of right to operate our 
properties, and may also lead 
to severe legal implications 
for the Romanian subsidiaries’ 
Directors.
The Group has a specialised department dealing on a daily basis with 
matters related to compliance with such regulations in Romania, where 
the Group’s properties are located. Apart from in-house expertise, the 
Group also engages external consultants, when required, on specialised 
matters related to its compliance with these regulations.
Appropriate actions are taken as soon as a potential threat for non-
compliance with such regulations is identified.

In accordance with provision C2:2 of the 2014 revision of the UK 
Corporate Governance Code, the Board has considered the 
Company’s viability over the next three years. As a result of the 
long-term nature of the Group’s commitments from its tenants for its 
properties in Romania, as well as the long-term nature of the Group’s 
assets (properties), the Board is confident over the long-term viability 
of the Group’s business; however, it is difficult to assess the long-
terms trends in the real estate market in Romania, the long-term 
availability of funds in the European and global capital markets, and 
the European Central Bank’s long-term policies over the provision of 
liquidity to banks operating in the Eurozone, the largest of which have 
subsidiaries in Romania. In addition, it is difficult to assess the 
regulatory, tax and political environment in which the Group operates 
on a basis longer than a three-year period. Therefore, the Board 
considered that a three-year period is an appropriate period to 
perform its viability analysis, as also supported by the following 
factors:
 ¡ three years is the period over which the Group performs its cash 
flow projections and business plans due to the Group’s dynamic 
growth plan. It would be very difficult to extend the Group’s 
strategic planning period beyond a three-year period and still 
maintain its accuracy to an acceptable level; 
 ¡ part of the Group’s financing facilities mature within the next three 
years; and
 ¡ three years is the average period over which the Group carries out 
its major development projects, starting from the date of purchase 
of land to the completion of the properties. 
In 2016, the viability assessment process comprised the following 
key steps: 
1. A review and assessment by the Audit Committee of the principal 
risks facing the Company. An outline of the identified principal 
risks, including changes in the assessed risk level from the prior 
year, is presented on pages 50-54. 
2. Identification of those principal risks that are more likely to have a 
potential impact on the Company’s viability over the next 
three-year period, namely:
 ¡ counterparty credit risk;
 ¡ changes in interest rates;
 ¡ valuation of portfolio;
 ¡ inability to lease space;
 ¡ lack of available financing; and
 ¡ breach of loan covenants.
3. Analysis of the potential quantitative impact of the principal risks 
identified under step 2 above, should these occur in isolation or 
under certain possible combinations. It should be emphasised 
that, based on the assessment performed, a number of the 
above-mentioned risks may have direct and indirect impact on the 
Group’s property portfolio values and/or NAV, but have been 
assessed as having very low probability of affecting the Group’s 
viability over the next three years.
4. Assessment of the possible, available strategies to minimise the 
potential impact of these principal risks over the next three years. 
Such mitigation strategies include the possibility to raise 
additional equity capital, or refinance/reschedule existing debt 
facilities, or to dispose of properties.
5. Following the completion of the viability assessment, this has 
been presented and approved by the Board.
Based on the assessment performed, the Board concluded that it  
has a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to 
continue in operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due up  
to March 2020. 
It should be noted that this assessment is based on the following 
assumptions which are not within the Company’s control: 
 ¡ no unanticipated changes in laws and regulations affecting the 
Company, including the value of its investments, operating 
performance and cash flows; and 
 ¡ continued stability and availability of sufficient capital and market 
liquidity so as to enable the raising of additional equity, as well as 
the refinancing/rescheduling of the Group’s debt facilities which 
mature within the next three years. 
VIABILITY STATEMENT
55 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 54 GLOBALWORTH ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
GOv ERNANCE PORTFOLIO REv IEW FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STRATEGIC REv IEW OvER vIEW
