 8 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8 The Go-Ahead Group plc I Annual Report and Accounts 2016
we are clear what we stand for today and what we need to 
stand for in the future. We believe that the trust our people 
and our customers place in us must be earned every day and 
that is why we are committed to taking care of every journey.
Performance
Overall, the Group delivered robust financial performance in 
the year, demonstrating the effectiveness of our long standing 
strategy of providing high quality and locally focused passenger 
transport services. We achieved good profit growth in our bus 
business, despite a number of headwinds and, as planned, have 
met the £100m profit target when adjusting for the impact of 
IAS 19 (revised). Importantly, customer satisfaction in our 
regional bus continues to lead the industry. In London we 
remain the largest bus operator.
In rail, our Southeastern and London Midland franchises 
recorded strong financial results. London Midland was also 
successful in securing a direct award contract and achieved  
a strong customer satisfaction score of 86%. Early in the year 
Southern and Gatwick Express were integrated into GTR, 
resulting in the creation of a new business and new  
leadership team.
During the year we continued to invest in future growth with 
further disciplined capital investments across the Group to 
make our existing business more attractive to our customers. 
We will continue to invest in the talent and skills of our people, 
through training and development, and by enabling them to 
network across the Group to learn from each other. We will 
also continue to invest in long term relationship building. Our 
future lies in our ability to engage with stakeholders and 
develop appropriate solutions to their needs.
Go-Ahead is developing an increasingly diverse portfolio of 
operations that will reduce our dependence on any single 
market or contract and ensures we have excellent knowledge 
of, and access to, a range of new opportunities. This year we 
are pleased to have won business in two overseas markets. In 
Singapore, Go-Ahead was successful in its bid for a five-year 
bus services contract, while in Germany the Group was 
awarded two contracts for rail services.
Dividend
Our underlying business performance and confidence in the 
medium term outlook have enabled the Board to propose a 
2016 final dividend of 67.52p per share, supported by bus 
Dear Shareholder
We have delivered robust results for the year slightly ahead of 
our expectations and have achieved high levels of passenger 
satisfaction in the majority of our businesses. However, we have 
seen challenges in the year with particular difficulties in the 
GTR franchise, which has faced operational issues and capacity 
constraints associated with the Thameslink Programme from 
the start. This complex franchise, on which more than one 
million passenger journeys are made every weekday, is being 
modernised to meet ever-growing demand. Regrettably 
industrial action has compounded disruption on the network 
and, as a result, we have not provided the levels of reliability 
and service our passengers expect. As previously announced 
our margin on the GTR franchise over the life of the franchise 
is now expected to be lower than originally forecast.
Y our Board is very focused on addressing these issues along 
with key partners. We are sorry that the introduction of 
changes, which will be of great benefit in the longer term, is 
creating inconvenience and hardship for passengers.  
I appreciate how frustrating and difficult it is when things  
go wrong.
Y our Group has a highly experienced and committed 
management team with integrity, a clear strategy and a strong 
focus on improving passenger satisfaction. I believe that, with 
continued government support, we are well placed to address 
the challenges and to bring about the improvements in service 
to which we aspire.
Contributing to society
At Go-Ahead, the contribution we make to society is 
important to us. We need to ensure the Group is in a sound 
financial position and that our investors and lenders make 
appropriate returns for the capital and debt they provide and 
the risks involved. This then enables us to focus on our role  
in society which is to provide reliable and high quality  
public transport.
Y our Board spends considerable time on shaping our Group’s 
culture, which guides us as we renew and advance the business. 
Doing the right thing for our customers has always been a core 
part of who we are, and drives our ongoing improvement.
Y our Chief Executive, David Brown, has recently led a review of 
Go-Ahead’s vision, beliefs and attitudes, which underpin our 
culture. Through talking to a wide cross-section of stakeholders, 
including employees and industry partners, we are making sure 
Chairman’s statement
More information 
on page 46
Andrew Allner,
Chairman The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 9
Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Strategic report
The Go-Ahead Group plc I www.go-ahead.com 9
division profitability. Combined with the interim dividend of 
28.33p per share, the proposed total dividend will be 95.85p 
per share, an increase of 6.5%. The final dividend will be paid on 
25 November 2016 to all shareholders on the register at close 
of business on 11 November 2016.
Y our Board has a clear capital allocation policy for the Group 
which is continually under review. We consider our policy for 
capital structure and how surplus cash is to be deployed 
between ongoing operations, investment in new franchises and 
new businesses, ongoing dividends to shareholders and 
possible further returns to shareholders. Our objective is to 
retain an efficient capital structure, whilst maintaining financial 
flexibility in the event of downside scenarios or new 
investment opportunities, and to provide additional returns to 
shareholders where it is prudent to do so.
Robust corporate governance
It has always been important to me that Go-Ahead’s Board 
functions as a key strategic partner and sounding board for 
management, challenging us all to be better. We pride ourselves 
on our reputation for conducting business activities in the 
highest ethical and professional manner, guided by our 
corporate governance principles and practices as well as strong 
Board oversight. The composition of the Board, with its diverse 
range of skills and experience, is one of our key strengths. The 
relationships we have fostered, both within and outside the 
boardroom, have strengthened Board dynamics.
Y our Board takes an active role in ensuring best corporate 
governance practices. During the year, we implemented the 
recommendations from the independent external Board 
evaluation conducted in 2015 and also undertook an internal 
Board evaluation. These reviews help us to continually improve 
and adapt to the changing needs of the business and ensure 
we are always operating in accordance with best practice.
Our people
At Go-Ahead we recognise that remuneration should be 
closely linked to performance. Whilst we have largely achieved 
the financial and strategic targets set at the beginning of the 
year it is clear that we have not delivered the required levels  
of passenger service on our Southern routes. As a result,  
David Brown, who in my view is an exceptional and committed 
Group Chief Executive, made it clear he does not wish to be 
considered for an annual bonus this year and declined a  
salary increase. 
At Go-Ahead we firmly believe in a pay-for-performance 
culture. In order to improve our focus on improving customer 
service and demonstrate our commitment to passengers we 
have made important changes to our remuneration 
arrangements. Last year we embedded customer service 
targets within long term incentive awards. In addition, this year 
we have introduced passenger satisfaction measures in our 
annual bonus plan.
As a public transport business it is ultimately the quality of the 
service we provide that will underpin our leadership in the 
transport sector. T o meet these challenges, our employees 
work hard to meet our customers’ needs. I would like to 
express the Board’s appreciation and thanks to all our 
employees for their contribution to another successful year for 
the Group.
“Doing the right thing for our customers has always been 
a core part of who we are, and drives our ongoing 
improvement of the organisation.”
More information 
on page 40
In March we welcomed Patrick Butcher, who was appointed to 
the Board as Group Chief Financial Officer. Patrick brings a 
wealth of industry experience, having joined from Network 
Rail where he was Group Finance Director since 2009. He has 
made an excellent start and is already making a valuable 
contribution to the Group.
I would also like to thank the previous Group Finance Director, 
Keith Down, for the significant contribution he made in his four 
years with the Group.
Looking ahead
Whilst the past year was challenging, good progress has been 
made on many fronts. These developments provide a solid 
base from which to take advantage of future opportunities. 
Our strategy of increased marketing, use of technology, the 
development of partnerships with local authorities and 
improved customer service is already producing results and will 
be the key to driving this business forward. A strategy of 
selective investment in operations outside the UK will increase 
our resilience and provide us with further growth opportunity.
With oversight from the Board, the GTR management team 
will continue the modernisation programme and focus on 
resolving issues locally.
The current fiscal year has started with change in the broader 
political and economic environment. Go-Ahead will continue 
to act to meet the needs of a changing world and prudently 
balance strategic growth with sound risk management 
practices. It remains crucial to maintain the advantages that 
well-managed public transport can bring to society, and to 
provide people with the mobility that is essential to our 
economic and social needs. However working patterns and the 
performance of different sectors of the economy may fluctuate, 
those needs will continue to provide opportunities for the 
public transport industry to serve its customers to mutual 
advantage. Go-Ahead is a high quality operator with leading 
market positions in the bus and rail sectors. Looking ahead,  
I am confident we will continue to deliver value for our 
customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders.
Andrew Allner,
Chairman
8 September 2016
