 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3
Chief Executive’s Statement
T here’s a short version of what happened in 2012 and a longer version of what 2012 represents in the time 
scale of a changing industry. I’d like to share both.
SHORT. After several years of uninterrupted ﬁnancial success, 2012 was a disappointing year. James Geddes’ CFO 
commentary addresses the reasons in some detail but there’s one factor that accounts for the majority of the 
disappointment. Every year, some clients spend unused budget in November and December, but in 2012 many big 
companies decided instead to cut back, and this had a material effect on our proﬁts. As a result, we reduced costs 
and we’ll be less reliant on clients releasing spare budgets at the end of the year going forward.
LONG. My objective here is to position 2012 in the time scale of a changing industry, where it feels like we’re at a 
seminal moment in BrainJuicer’s history. Voted the most innovative agency in the world for the last 2 years run-
ning, we have made a good start in our mission to reinvent market research. Thirteen years in, we have created 
and validated a suite of market changing Juicy research approaches, established a global presence working with a 
great many of the world’s biggest companies, attracted a group of 140 talented and highly motivated people, built 
a truly innovative reputation and are in the process of forming a highly desirable company culture to achieve 
personal drive and company growth.
In those same thirteen years, the research industry has been woken from its slumber, ﬁrst by a ﬁeldwork 
revolution in the form of online research and, more recently, by a research revolution crystallising around the 
Behavioural Sciences. Thirteen years ago, online research stirred the high priests of market research into defend-
ing their faith in ofﬂine, random sampled representative research, but the forces of progress meant that by 2013 
online research has been totally accepted. From the start, BrainJuicer has been associated with this important 
ﬁeldwork revolution but, in recent years, it is the more fundamental research revolution that we’ve been spear-
heading, inspired by the latest thinking in Behavioural Sciences. Traditional market research has offered a plau-
sible but ﬂawed model of human decision making, over-estimating the importance and measurement of rational, 
persuasion based messaging and under-estimating the degree to which the vast majority of decisions are made 
intuitively, instinctively and emotionally. Just as Behavioural Economics is providing a truer-to-life model of 
human behaviour, so Behavioural Science offers a tremendous opportunity to increase the accuracy of predicting 
customer behaviour and generating greater commercial returns.
BrainJuicer’s reputation has grown in leaps and bounds with the popularity of these new ideas, but the busi-
ness has not grown at the same rate. Clients are enthusiastic about our new approaches and the commercial 
beneﬁts on offer, but altering ingrained buying habits requires a great deal of change, which is always hard.
CHANGING HABITS IS HARD
‘Market research as we know it will be dead by 2020’
Kim Dedeker, formerly P&G Global Head of MR
‘We need more magic and less logic’
Marc Mathieu, Unilever SVP Marketing
‘We’re drowning in data but thirsting for insight’
Denyse Drummond-Dunn, formerly Nestle Global Head of MR
‘How do we change from a “Plan-Learn-Qualify-Optimize-Launch-Track-Revisit in a Year” research approach, to a more 
agile, real-time “Do-Learn” mentality?’
Joan Lewis, Global Consumer & Market Knowledge Ofﬁcer at P&G
Despite these public statements by the most senior researchers from the world’s biggest buyers of market 
research, echoed by many of their peers in companies the world over, there has been little change in the pattern 
of these companies’ research spending. The desire to adopt new models and methods may be strong but old habits 
die hard and the traditional research approaches are hard to relinquish, even when there’s an awareness of how 
bad they are for the company’s long-term health.  BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
A critical step to changing habits is to understand the forces keeping them in place. Once known, you can 
ﬁnd ways to avoid loss aversion and create ways to make it fun, fast and easy for clients to switch. These are the 
forces we believe keep ‘bad-trad’ research in place:
1. an established language and standard questions make it easy for clients to discuss and interpret the research;
2.  the status quo feels comfortable and possesses default credibility [‘nobody ever got ﬁred for buying IBM’];
3. habit; it’s just so much easier to buy; suppliers on speed dial & little or no need to sell internally;
4. can be bought by juniors because it’s so accepted;
5. has years of normative data to provide benchmarks for go/no-go decisions;
6. it’s part of an accepted and understood marketing model that combines the rational and emotional in equal  
 measure to aim for an adequate return, rather than a more intuitive/emotional approach with the potential to 
 deliver a spectacular return;
7. it is generally black-box, formulaic and complicated, which seems to support its plausibility and prevent  
 interrogation of whether it actually works very well.
THE POWER OF BEHAVIOURAL SCIENCE TO CHANGE HABITS
Current market research techniques are a direct reﬂection of current marketing beliefs. The two are a co-evolved 
eco-system. The central misdirecting belief running throughout current research and marketing is a left brain, 
right brain model of human decision making. Since left and right are equal, the default assumption is that 
rational and emotional factors are equal in decision making and that successful marketing and communications 
are a combination of functional and emotional factors. So concepts are written in a standard format, of insight-
beneﬁt, and reason-to-believe, which insists on a mix of emotional and rational components, and advertising  
is made with equal amounts of message and engagement. It seems a plausible, even sensible approach but as we’ll 
see below, it’s not how the most successful marketing works.
Current concept testing reﬂects the left-right brain model by having a battery of rational-biased metrics  
to assess perceptions of efﬁcacy/functionality, some metrics on likability and then purchase intention to predict 
in-market performance. There is no direct measure of people’s emotional reaction and it is no surprise most con-
cepts come out around the average. Packaging testing acknowledges the need for visual impact and recognition 
but thereafter reﬂects a belief that great packs are a mixture of the logical and magical. The fact that in-market 
performance seems to regularly differ from research results should at least question the assumptions behind cur-
rent market research methods. Communication theory believes the very best adverts are a winning combination 
of, ‘a ﬁst of a brand proposition, wrapped in a velvet glove of emotion’. Nearly every pre-testing method reﬂects 
this belief and measures both the rational and emotional, weighing them equally with brand recall [how can  
an advert possibly work unless people can recall the brand?!]. But all the evidence suggests the very best adverts 
work through pure emotional seduction, not persuasion [Cadbury Gorilla, VW Darth Vader, the Andrex puppy  
to name a few examples] and that brand recognition, not recall, is the only thing that matters. Brand and  
communications tracking are an extension of the communication beliefs and equally ﬂawed. 
Behavioural Economics provides a new framework that can radically change marketing beliefs and will demand 
market research tools to match. The central frame that runs throughout Behavioural Economics is the System 
1, System 2 model of the brain, where the instinctive, intuitive and emotional System 1 completely overwhelms 
the cognitive, deliberative, rational brain [the equivalent of 11 million bits of computing power vs. just 50 bits]. 
It turns out, ‘we think much less than we think we think’, with human decision making wildly biased in favour 
of the emotional, instinctive and intuitive. Market research needs to change the way it assesses new concepts,  BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5
packs and adverts and prioritise the need to measure emotion and seduction. BrainJuicer’s suite of Juicy tools 
matches this new understanding, successfully measuring the things that matter and putting us in prime posi-
tion to beneﬁt from a change in understanding how people really make decisions. To the extent we can help our 
clients speak the System 1 language, we increase their chances of creating famous marketing and signiﬁcant 
commercial success.
To challenge the market-leading approaches and make it easier for clients to buy, we need a single focus, 
a ‘single hook’ on which to hang all our Juicy tools. This is why we have decided to position ourselves as THE 
System 1 research agency and adopted the tagline, ‘BrainJuicer – Turning Human Understanding into Business 
Advantage’. 
Our challenge is to encourage changes in habits. Just as we have applied our inventiveness to our products 
and culture, so we need to apply our inventiveness to helping change behaviour. These are ﬁve approaches we’re 
sharing with clients:
1.  EDUCATE in Behavioural Science. Train market research teams in Behavioural Sciences and the revolution 
that’s taking place in the understanding of human decision making, habits and behaviour change. 
2.  EVANGELISE more widely to help turn this new understanding into business advantage. Offer the business a 
constant stream of inspiring ‘behavioural’ speakers, webinars, books, websites, examples to encourage a cor-
porate fascination with understanding the human condition with all its wonderful quirks, with an emphasis on 
using this knowledge to ﬁnding ways of improving the lives of your customers.
3. ENCOURAGE market research to challenge the status quo and dare to act on behavioural practices. Take this 
new found knowledge of Behavioural Sciences and challenge current practices to see where the opportunities for 
change are in the business. This could be everything from the research methods used to understand and predict 
customer behaviour, to the way new product development concepts are written, to giving precedence to instinc-
tive, emotional marketing e.g. the main advertising objective should always be ‘make my brand famous’ with an 
emphasis on making people feel something strongly, rather than remembering messages. 
4. EXPERIMENT with behavioural interventions. Establish a culture of experimentation as the means of testing 
behavioural interventions to ﬁnd the ones that show a signiﬁcant effect and which are then rolled-out as widely 
as possible. 
5. ESTABLISH proof of behavioural impact. Invest time, effort, skills, patience and money to prove the impact of 
initiatives and have the humility and bravery to acknowledge those that don’t work as well as the patience to 
know not everything will. 
Changing habits is a creative process that requires a great deal of patience. But in a world struggling for 
growth, it can only be a matter of time before something that provides signiﬁcant business advantage gets ad-
opted. Our job is to speed the process of change and make it as easy as possible for our clients to reap the rewards 
of adopting new research and applying Behavioural Science.
It’s not the smartest, fastest, strongest or even most creative that survive, it’s the most adaptable.
JOHN KEARON
Chief Juicer
21 March 2013 
