 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2
Chairman’s Statement
F or the ﬁrst time since BrainJuicer was established in 2000 I have to report that the Group has had a poor 
year. Revenue increased marginally, to £20,822,000, but operating proﬁt fell by 45% to £1,513,000 and diluted 
earnings per share by 44% to 7.9p.
Despite this setback, the Board is proposing to pay a ﬁnal dividend of 2.25p, the same as for 2011. After taking 
account of the 2012 interim dividend, which was increased by 13.3% to 0.85p, this would give a full year payment 
of 3.1p, an increase over 2011 of 3.3%, covered 2.5 times by diluted earnings per share. The proposed dividend 
reﬂects the comfortable level of dividend cover, the Group’s strong ﬁnancial position, with year-end cash of 
£3,755,000 and no debt, and the Board’s continued conﬁdence in the future prospects for the business.
John Kearon, our Chief Executive, and James Geddes, our Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, will assess the 2012 perfor-
mance and results in the context of the Group’s long term growth aspirations, in the sections following  
this Chairman’s Statement. The major factor behind the sharp decline in 2012 proﬁts was the unexpected non-
recurrence of the very high levels of business which BrainJuicer has traditionally generated in the last months 
of the year. The 11% year on year revenue growth achieved over the ﬁrst 10 months of the year was below our 
internal expectations but nonetheless respectable. However, the seasonal increase in activity during November 
and December fell signiﬁcantly short of that experienced in previous years, leaving revenue for the full year  
essentially ﬂat.
BrainJuicer’s costs (excluding cost of sales), increased by 9%, or £1,250,000 compared with 2011. Much of this 
increase reﬂected the full year impact of the investments made during the course of 2011 as the Group pursued 
its growth agenda – strengthening its teams, broadening its geographic coverage, building its infrastructure and 
investing in product development and validation. The combined effect of ﬂat sales and a signiﬁcant increase in 
costs resulted in a sharp fall in proﬁt for the year.
While disappointing in terms of ﬁnancial results, BrainJuicer continued to make progress on several fronts 
during 2012. Our recently established businesses in China and Brazil both grew very strongly, and we opened 
ofﬁces in India and France, to further extend our geographic reach. BrainJuicer’s focus on turning human un-
derstanding into business advantage continues to be widely recognized by both clients and the market research 
industry. Sales of our unique “Juicy” products increased by 22% in 2012, a highly encouraging achievement  
albeit offset by a decline in sales of our more traditional “Twist” products. Revenue from most of the Group’s larg-
est clients, which are mainly multinational consumer goods companies, increased signiﬁcantly over the year.
During 2012 Mark Muth, who had represented Unilever Ventures on the BrainJuicer board since 2003 retired 
from the board, as did another long-serving director, Simon Godfrey. I would like to thank both Mark and Simon 
for their valuable input to our discussions over the years. Two new non-executive directors with complementary 
backgrounds were appointed during the year and have already made a positive contribution. Robert Brand  
enjoyed a long City career, initially as an investment analyst and then as a company advisor, while Graham 
Blashill has a strong background in sales and marketing, culminating in 6 years as a main board director  
of Imperial Tobacco Group plc.
Looking forward to 2013 and beyond, BrainJuicer will continue in its efforts to translate its excellent reputa-
tion for innovation into signiﬁcant revenue growth. One important objective is to get back on track in Western 
Europe and the US, where revenue was well below budget in 2012. Another priority, and probably the key to 
taking our business to the next level in terms of scale, is to win signiﬁcant “mandate” opportunities (where large 
clients use a speciﬁc market research technique from a single supplier across all of its business on an on-going 
basis). Encouragingly, as our credibility grows, we are increasingly being invited to pitch for such opportunities. 
At the same time, and despite the inevitable costs of establishing BrainJuicer in new markets and developing 
its infrastructure, we will keep aggregate cost increases to a minimum until signiﬁcant revenue growth returns. 
Management has already taken steps to deliver this and we expect the overall percentage increase in costs during 
2013 to be in low single digits.
Finally, I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work and commitment during what was a dif-
ﬁcult year for our Group.
KEN FORD
Chairman
21 March 2013
