 In sharp contrast to last year the insurance industry has
enjoyed a benign claims environment and this, combined
with significant rate increases and excellent investment
returns, has produced GoshawK’s most profitable year 
to date. 
Financial results and dividend
The profit before tax amounts to £10.1 million on gross
premiums written of £457 million and compares with a loss
of £7.4 million on premium income of £231 million in 2001.
After tax, the profit is £14.7 million or 8.4p per share
compared with a loss of £5.2 million or 6.9p per share 
the previous year. 
An interim dividend of 1.0 pence was paid in December
2002. The Board has recommended a final dividend of 
2.0 pence, giving a total for the year of 3.0 pence. The final
dividend is payable on 9 June 2003 to shareholders on 
the register on 9 May 2003.
GoshawK Re in Bermuda 
GoshawK Re has enjoyed an exceptional first year of
operations. It started underwriting in early January with an
initial capital base of $140 million and having achieved 
a credit rating from A.M. Best of A- (Excellent). The capital
base was increased during December by $40 million to
$180 million and this combined with retained earnings 
took total capital and surplus to $217 million by the year
end. This asset gives the Group an increased exposure 
to the US dollar, which is commented on in the Finance
Director’s report. 
GoshawK Re writes only reinsurance business. Business
written during 2002 includes Marine Excess of Loss,
Property catastrophe, Property and some limited Casualty
pro rata Treaty, Satellite reinsurance and a large whole
account quota share contract for SCPIE, a US reinsurer. 
The 1 January renewal season this year has confirmed 
our expectations that rates have continued to harden. Not
only have we seen double digit rate increases in both our
Marine and Property books but underwriting discipline
remains firm across the market with terms and conditions
remaining tight. 
Development of the business underwritten has been overseen
by the Group Underwriting Director, Andrew Gammell, 
who has spent almost half of his time during the year in
Bermuda. We have been successful in recruiting a high
calibre team of underwriters to join GoshawK Re with 
a dedicated lead underwriter each respectively for our
Marine Excess of Loss, Property Catastrophe and Property
pro rata books of business. Our headcount at the year 
end was ten and we expect this to grow further in 2003 as
we continue to strengthen the team. 
GoshawK Insurance Holdings plc
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chief Executive’s
statement
GoshawK’s business in 2002 was, for the
first time, based on two wholly owned
operations, Syndicate 102 at Lloyd’s in
London and GoshawK Re in Bermuda.
GoshawK has enjoyed a very good 
year in 2002 and this is reflected in our
results. GoshawK Re, our reinsurance
business in Bermuda, has exceeded our
demanding expectations in its first year. 
04
Profit after tax
£14.7m GoshawK Insurance Holdings plc
Annual report and accounts 2002 05
Despite the success achieved during the year it remains
important for GoshawK Re to grow. Increased scale will
allow it to attract an increasing spread and quality of
business in its chosen market segments and to increase
the quantity of business led. The Group will therefore focus
its capital resources on increasing the capital and surplus
of GoshawK Re. 
Syndicate 102 at Lloyd’s
The changes to rates and conditions following the World
Trade Center (“WTC”) loss, combined with a very low
incidence of loss at the primary levels and to date no
catastrophic losses, have resulted in an incurred loss ratio
at the twelve month stage of 18% for the 2002 year of
account. This is the best the Syndicate has produced since
1993 and is a very positive indicator.
Rate increases over the fourteen classes of business
written in the Syndicate between 2000 and 2002 have
been between 40% and 190%. During 2002, with the
exception of the War and Terrorism account, rate increases
over the same fourteen classes have been between 
10% and 70%. The result is that less exposure is being
assumed for a greater amount of premium.
In the War account, which provides cover for both Aviation
and Marine hulls, underwriting discipline remains as firm as
during the period immediately after the WTC disaster, and
the threat of imminent war in the Middle East has helped 
to keep the rating at its current high levels. Combined with
the Terrorism and Political Risks account, this amounted to
approximately 15% of premiums written in the 2002 year. 
The Non Marine classes, which include International
Property, have benefited from the general lack of capacity
available in the worldwide markets. This is particularly true
of the US market, where there have been good
opportunities to write quality business on a facultative basis
at excellent rates. The Personal Accident market faced an
almost unprecedented withdrawal of capacity which meant
that the Syndicate could take advantage of building a new
account fairly rapidly with well spread and quality business. 
The Professional Indemnity class, which was a new
addition to the Syndicate in 2001, has been able to take
advantage of a rapidly diminishing number of competitors
and a resulting firming of rates in 2002, which we estimate
at 48% on average.
The Satellite account made up only 2% of the Syndicate 
by premium volume and did not perform well. It is being
reserved on the assumption that no profit will be produced
in the 2002 year.
Until 2002 the proportion of syndicate capacity devoted to
the Marine sector had been falling. However the 2002 year
saw some of the higher rate increases being achieved in
the direct marine classes and as a result these made up
21% of premiums written. The Hull account showed steady
rate increases in the late teens over the year and although
some competitors continued to hold back increases they
were fewer and more restrained. The Cargo account
showed similar characteristics and during 2002 steadily
increased levels of rating by up to 40%. The Marine Liability
account also showed rating improvement in the year and,
although it was not as dramatic as some of the other
classes, it had not suffered their previous poor experience. 
Reinsurance protection
Syndicate 102 has consistently bought a wide reinsurance
programme to protect against many of the uncertainties 
of the business, and to ensure that the aggregate risk
retained is within the acceptable parameters of the Syndicate.
Whilst the Syndicate will maintain its excellent long term
relationships with its key reinsurers, it is more inclined to
retain risk when direct insurance rates and terms make it
more attractive to do so. 
GoshawK has a policy of providing for reinsurance bad debt
based on credit agencies’ ratings of reinsurers. Because 
of the recent decline in credit ratings of some reinsurers,
combined with the additional recoveries expected from our
WTC gross losses, we have increased our overall provision
against reinsurance debtors by an additional £1.9 million 
to £4.2 million.
Resolution of dispute with GIO Insurance Limited
(“GIO”)
We are very pleased to have settled our disputed claim
against GIO. Syndicate 102 bought reinsurance protection
from GIO for the 1998, 1999 and 2000 years of account. 
A dispute arose over collection and the matter was due to
go before arbitration in London in September 2002. However
the matter was settled immediately prior to arbitration. The
whole amount due and owing, which totalled £19 million,
was settled in full. In addition, a further amount, which
represented an agreed discount to the full policy limit, 
was settled at the same time. 
100p
100p
100p
Gross written premiums Net earned premiums
London
Bermuda
London
Bermuda
