 STRATEGIC REPORT GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC 08
Chairman’s Statement
I am pleased to report that your company has performed well in 2016 and 
has continued to make good progress in delivering on its strategic objectives. 
The year was characterised by mixed trading conditions. After a slow start, 
activity increased as the year progressed and was particularly strong in the 
second half, following a trend that has continued into the start of the new 
financial year. This trading pattern presented considerable challenges in 
terms of manufacturing capacity planning towards the end of the period, 
but investments in additional skills and a programme of internal efficiency 
improvements across the organisation ensured that these challenges 
were successfully met. Other notable achievements include the completion 
of two acquisitions and the relocation of one of our largest 
manufacturing facilities.
Headline revenues increased 9.3% year on year, with approximately 55% 
of total sales in the second half. Your company has continued to deliver 
profitable growth with adjusted profit before tax increasing by 9.7%. The 
business remains in a strong net cash position at £11.7 million (2015 : £17.3 
million) despite making two acquisitions in the year and making material 
investments in capital assets to drive the business forward.
We have started the current financial year with a favourable trading 
environment. This is driven by the order book for our fibre based business, 
in particular high reliability undersea fibre couplers, fibre based satellite 
communications, fibre sensing and critical components used in 
microelectronic manufacturing. At the year end the order book stood at 
£52.8 million, an increase of 45% compared with the same time last year. 
In July 2016 your company completed two acquisitions in the Aerospace 
& Defence sector; one in the UK and the other in the US. These acquisitions 
continue to further our strategic objectives of broadening our product 
offerings and diversifying our markets, both geographically and by sector. 
Kent Periscopes Ltd designs, develops and manufactures periscopes and 
sighting systems for Armoured Fighting Vehicles (“AFVs”). Alfalight 
specialises in diode and diode-pumped lasers for the US defence sector.
Significant progress was made in the year in relocating and upgrading a 
number of our real estate assets. The relocation of our Palo Alto operations 
to nearby Fremont was a major undertaking but it has provided much 
improved facilities and room for growth at a similar ongoing cost. We have 
continued to upgrade and expand our T orquay facility , allowing us to manage 
the considerable increases in demand we have seen in this site over the 
past two years. 2016 also saw the commencement of the refurbishment 
of our Cleveland facility, which will help drive much needed operational 
efficiency as well as showcasing the site’s unique world leading crystal 
growth capabilities to customers.
Having spent eight years as a non-executive Director, Paul Heal has decided 
not to stand for re-election at the AGM in February 2017. Paul has played an 
integral role in the development of Gooch & Housego as a business over 
those years and I would like to record my thanks to Paul for his support and 
guidance, which have been invaluable. We have begun a process to identify 
a replacement for Paul. 
In summary , 2016 has been a busy and successful year for Gooch & Housego. 
We have acquired two businesses, continued our drive for operational 
excellence, relocated one of our largest facilities and materially expanded 
another. All of this has been achieved against a backdrop of challenging, if 
ultimately favourable, trading conditions. As we enter 2017, the strength 
of the US Dollar against the British Pound will benefit the business in the 
short term, but there remains uncertainty in world markets. With a strong 
balance sheet, good cash flow, excellent order book and enhanced facilities, 
processes and systems, the Company is well positioned to exploit exciting 
growth opportunities in photonics. I would like to thank my fellow directors 
and employees of Gooch & Housego for making 2016 another successful 
year for the Company.
Gareth Jones
Chairman
29 November 2016
‘‘
Y our company has performed well 
in 2016 and has continued to make 
good progress in delivering on its 
strategic objectives.”
