 7
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
Chairman’s Statement
In 2016, Good Energy delivered a robust financial 
performance in line with market expectations 
and increased customer meter numbers and 
engagement, while continuing to invest in the 
Company to achieve its purpose to tackle climate 
change in the UK.
Revenue rose 41% to £90.4 million on 13%  
customer meter growth; operating profit grew 41% 
to £6.0 million and profit before tax increased from 
£0.1m to £1.4m, delivering basic earnings per share  
of 9.1 pence.
Climate change remains a priority for the developed 
and developing world, with 129 countries ratifying 
the 2015 Paris Climate agreement including the UK, 
USA, China and India. The UK has now taken the  
next steps and approved the fifth carbon budget. 
In the UK, there continues to be a high level of  
public support for renewables, and in 2016 wind 
generated more electricity than coal. There is 
continued Government support for innovation in 
the UK energy market, and the recent alignment of 
energy and business strategy in the Business Energy 
and Industrial Strategy Department (BEIS) means 
there should be a more joined up approach from 
policy makers.
As the UK energy market evolves, Good Energy 
continues to invest in the Company. The focus for 
2016 has been to improve our digital capabilities. 
This year, we updated our customer website and 
delivered the first stage of our new customer 
information and billing system (Customer System), 
with additional Customer System rollouts planned 
throughout 2017. This combination will allow Good 
Energy to reduce cost, deliver an improved customer 
experience, test new marketing channels for 
investment in growth and support the Company’s 
roll out of the Smart Metering program.
In the final quarter of 2016, the UK energy market 
experienced a period of heightened volatility, driven 
We are focussed on growing 
profitably, understanding 
our customers’ needs and 
delivering 100% renewable 
and carbon neutr al solutions 
to more UK customers
Our Strategic Report for 2016 contains contributions from Good Energy’s 
Chairman, its Chief Executive and its Chief Financial Officer, in addition to a 
strategic review. Detailed financial information and data can be found in later 
sections of the document.
by a number of internal and external market factors, 
which in part led to the collapse of GB Energy. While 
Good Energy is not immune from these conditions, 
our vertically integrated business model, together 
with a prudent hedging policy, helped to mitigate 
the impact of these factors, enabling the Company 
to deliver a profit before tax of £1.4m, in line with 
market expectations. 
Good Energy was set up to help people tackle 
climate change through their choice of energy 
supplier, and we remain a purpose and customer 
led organisation. We demonstrate this through 
our continued commitment to 100% certified 
renewable electricity and our launch, in 2016, of a 
carbon neutral gas offering; our customer advocacy 
or average net promoter score (NPS) of 45; and 
our oversubscribed retail share offering where we 
welcomed over 1,800 shareholders from our £3.1m 
share raise in June 2016.
In 2015, Good Energy outlined growth targets that 
would be built off a combination of improving 
efficiency and developing customer focussed 
propositions and innovation. In 2016, the Company 
continued to make strides to prepare itself for further 
growth through continued investment in systems, 
and generation portfolio, the launch of Selectricity 
and our successful share raise, as highlighted in the 
2016 Progress Report.
Strategic Report  6 – 21 Chairman’s Statement 8
John Maltby
Chairman
27 March 2017
Good Energy recognises that its growth target is 
ambitious. While other market participants have 
delivered high growth rates through low pricing, this 
comes with risks. Good Energy’s focus is on growing 
profitably through efficiency, new propositions and 
innovation, all underpinned by an understanding of 
our customers’ needs. Through profitable growth 
Good Energy will deliver 100% renewable and 
carbon neutral solutions to more UK customers, 
further reducing the UK carbon footprint in line with 
the Company’s purpose.
Therefore, the Board has concluded that it is 
more appropriate to express its ambition in terms 
of delivering sustainable profitable growth and 
enhanced customer service, as this is more aligned 
to our focus on delivering increased shareholder 
value. As a result, Good Energy will look to streamline 
its operating model to drive further improvements in 
costs to serve, above and beyond that which comes 
from economies of scale from additional revenue 
growth, which has meant some changes in our senior 
leadership team and will mean that David Brooks, 
Managing Director - Supply, will leave Good Energy 
on April 7th. We would like to thank David for the 
significant contribution he has made since joining 
Good Energy and wish him all the best.
In line with this focus, Good Energy continues 
to invest in the leadership and capability of our 
management team and Corporate Governance. 
Ensuring the team has the right skills and capability 
to support our employees is important in order 
for us to achieve our ambitions, and the Company 
continues to shape and develop this as we grow  
and mature. 
Francesca Ecsery has informed the Board of 
her intention to step down as a Non-Executive 
Director over the coming year. As part of ongoing 
succession planning, the Nominations Committee 
has commissioned a search for a new Non-Executive 
Director and this is well-advanced. Francesca will 
remain a member of the Board until her successor 
is appointed. Francesca joined the Board in 2012, 
since then the Company has benefitted from her 
consumer expertise and strategic counsel. The 
Board would like to thank Francesca for her valuable 
contribution and wishes her well in the future.
In addition, Good Energy has made good progress in 
2016 on our Corporate Governance practices. This 
combination is key to the future success of Good 
Energy.
We have had an encouraging start to 2017, with the 
completion of the sale of Oaklands and trading in 
line with market expectations.
The UK Energy market remains an attractive sector, 
with exciting opportunities in the future, and 
Good Energy continues to deliver sound financial, 
operational and strategic performance. This would 
not have been possible without the commitment of 
all of Good Energy’s employees and the continued 
support from our customers and shareholders. On 
behalf of the Board, I would like to thank you all.
Dividend
We continue to review the balance of continued 
investment in the business and providing an 
appropriate return to shareholders, the board 
recommends a final dividend of 2.3 pence per share.
