 16
Chief Executive’s Review
In 2016, Good Energy delivered growth of 41% in 
revenue, 29% in gross profit and 41% in operating 
profit, while managing the challenges of an 
increasingly competitive UK energy market and 
volatile wholesale energy market.
By being a customer focussed organisation, Good 
Energy has created a business model that is 
delivering financial returns for our shareholders, 
allowing us to invest in our people and systems, and 
deliver on our purpose.
Good Energy’s key competitive advantages can be 
split into five areas:
• Our story and brand - since 1999 we have  
been offering customers the opportunity to 
combat climate change through their choice  
of energy supplier; 
• Our green credentials – we offer 100% certified 
renewable energy and carbon neutral gas;
• Our customer focus – affordable energy  
delivered with excellent customer service; 
• Our people and values – through our employee 
engagement score; and 
• Our track record in innovation – since our  
inception we have successfully launched 
HomeGen, Renewable Heat Incentive  
Scheme and Selectricity.
These provide the basis for the future growth 
of Good Energy, with the principal risks and 
uncertainties faced by the business set out on pages 
27 and 28 of the Directors’ Report.
Supply
In 2016, total customer meter numbers grew 13% to 
248,605 (2015: 219,479), with electricity customer 
meters growing 5% to 71,486 (2015: 68,024), gas 
customer meters growing 14% to 44,107 (2015: 
38,838) and FIT customer meters up 18% to 133,012 
(2015: 112,617).
While total customer meter growth in 2016 was 
lower than 2015, Good Energy delivered significant 
growth in business supply volumes of over 95% and 
added over 20,000 new FIT customers in 2016.
During the year, the UK experienced heightened 
volatility in the short term UK power trading market 
due to several market factors, including unplanned 
maintenance work with French nuclear plants 
combined with lower than normal renewables 
generation and some irregular generation activities. 
As an electricity trader, Good Energy was operating 
in this challenging market. However, the Company’s 
risk management and hedging policy mitigated the 
impact on the Company.
T o support our growth, Good Energy has continued 
to invest in systems with over £1.7m invested in our 
Customer System and the relaunch of our customer 
website to improve our customers’ experience, and 
in people with the appointment of Hannah Darby as 
the Head of Digital, Marketing and Brand. 
Further phases of the Customer System will be 
implemented through 2017 and, once complete, 
Good Energy will have a system that is capable of 
driving scalable growth and internal efficiencies. 
The system will also allow Good Energy to test new 
marketing channels and assist us to meet our Smart 
obligations, as well as offering a platform for future 
customer propositions.
Good Energy’s growth targets are ambitious. While 
UK energy market participants have traditionally 
used price as the primary driver for growth, the 
consequence of this has caused some companies to 
exit with volatile market conditions.
In order to achieve our ambitions and deliver on our 
purpose, Good Energy needs to protect and grow its 
core business, build momentum in new business, 
and generate future business opportunities. 
All of this is underpinned by developing deeper 
relationships with our customers.  17
Strategic Report Directors’ Report Financial Statements
Good Energy recognises that growth will be in  
an evolving UK energy market, but this is nothing 
new for us. Good Energy is well placed to protect  
and grow our core business with our vertically 
integrated business model, customer focus, brand, 
green credentials, trading capability and track record 
of innovation.
The Company has identified the following three 
areas to build momentum in new business and 
generate future business opportunities. These are:
• battery storage - developing and delivering 
propositions for our business customers and 
renewable generators;
• electric vehicle network development - to enable 
customers to be able to experience the full 
benefits of electric vehicles (EVs); and
• green business consultancy - traditionally not a 
target audience for Good Energy to supply, due 
to their large size or operating domain, but with 
our commitment to reducing carbon with our 
expertise in trading and generation, we are well 
placed to support businesses looking to meet their 
sustainability goals.
These areas play to Good Energy’s competitive 
advantages and will support the Company’s growth 
ambitions, as well as lowering the UK’s carbon 
footprint, which is our purpose.
Alongside Good Energy’s robust 2016 financial 
performance, the Company has also increased its 
average NPS and employee engagement KPIs. As 
a customer focussed organisation, these KPI’s are 
important. They provide feedback on customer 
advocacy and how Good Energy employees are 
engaged with our purpose and values, and it is 
heartening to see the increase in these measures 
over the year.
Generation and development
In 2016, Good Energy continued to develop, manage 
and review its wind and solar generation sites to 
both secure access to long term power and realise 
value where appropriate, enabling us to reinvest in 
our portfolio.
Export from Good Energy’s owned sites increased 
5% to 80.7GWh in 2016, from a portfolio of 52MW 
made up of solar (35MW) and wind (17MW) assets. 
While wind output was down approximately 16% 
compared to 2015 due to lower wind resource, solar 
output increased 54% due to full year production 
from sites connected during 2015.
Good Energy continued to develop and actively 
manage our generation sites to both secure access 
to long term power, and realise value where 
appropriate, to enhance returns. During 2016, we 
have been constructing two 5MW solar sites, with 
Newton Downs connected at the end of the year, and 
Brynwhilach expecting to be connected before the 
end of March 2017.
Good Energy successfully sold Wrotham Heath 
pre construction to Trina Solar Group for a profit 
of £0.5m in 2016, and agreed the sale of our 5MW 
Oaklands solar site to Eneco UK Limited for £5.8m in 
December 2016, with the transaction completing in 
January 2017.
Oaklands was the first sale of a site fully constructed 
and developed by Good Energy and clearly 
showcased the capabilities of our generation team. 
Good Energy will continue to provide management 
services to Oaklands, and we retain an option to 
purchase up to 50% of the site’s power.
Over the short to medium term, Good Energy will 
continue to develop its wind assets in Cornwall and 
Scotland, as well as to look to realise value from its 
existing solar development portfolio. 
Good Energy was pleased with the conclusions of 
the Rt Hon Charles Hendry‘s independent review 
into the feasibility and practicality of tidal lagoon 
energy in the UK. The report concluded that tidal 
lagoons have a vital role to play in powering UK 
homes and businesses. Good Energy’s investment in 
Swansea Bay Tidal Lagoon plc allows us to purchase 
up to 10% of the output from the scheme, and we 
look forward to the Government incorporating tidal 
lagoons into their industrial and renewable strategies 
in response to the 5th Carbon Budget.
Chief Executive’s Review
Our focus is on protecting 
and growing our core 
business and on delivering 
new propositions for electric 
vehicles, stor age and 
business consultancy
Strategic Report  6 – 21 18
Research partnerships and innovation 
development 
Good Energy has a history of innovation.
In 2016, we continued this tradition with the launch 
of Selectricty, the UK’s first peer to peer platform for 
buying and selling renewable electricity, enabling 
commercial customers and renewable generators 
to trade electricity online themselves. Selectricity 
commercialised following the successful trial in  
late 2015 and early 2016 between Open Utility and 
Good Energy.
In 2016, Good Energy signed a Memorandum of 
Understanding with the UK clean fuel company, ITM 
Power, and is supplying 100% certified renewable 
electricity to one of ITM’s refuelling stations. We are 
also working with the Smart Fintry Project to deliver 
affordable sustainable energy to Fintry residents by 
enabling the purchase of power directly from nearby 
renewable energy generators.
As the UK energy market evolves, Good Energy will 
continue to develop innovative partnerships and 
projects to broaden our offering to customers.
Sustainable development goals
Good Energy is committed to serving all of its 
stakeholders, fulfilling our responsibilities to 
society and delivering sustainable returns to our 
shareholders, while also ensuring that the Company 
is a social and environmental force for good. 
Like other progressive, values-driven businesses, 
Good Energy has undertaken some early work 
to consider the relevance of the United Nations 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). For 
example, the Company has started to use the SDGs 
to inform the evolution of the Good Energy brand 
and to guide formal decision-making in the business.
Where Good Energy is considering doing something 
new or differently, we believe the SDGs can be 
a helpful reference point. Good Energy has also 
started to test the SDGs as a framework for 
external reporting as part of our most recent annual 
submission to the Social Stock Exchange.
Outlook
2016 was focussed on investment in systems to 
support the continued growth of the business, 
maximising the value of the generation assets  
and continuing to build capability in key areas of  
the Company.
The end of 2016 and the beginning of 2017 have seen 
price rises from a number of UK energy companies as 
a result of upward pressure on wholesale, regulatory 
and transportation costs.  
In 2017 we will look to simplify our operating model, 
deliver further efficiencies in cost to serve, grow the 
supply business and reduce activity in our generation 
business. This will be done by continuing our digital 
journey with the full rollout of the Customer System, 
streamlining processes enabling us to invest in 
Smart and the areas where we see potential for 
growth in an evolving marketplace.
Juliet Davenport
Chief Executive
27 March 2017
