 Overview
Gooch and Housego(G&H) has made good progress towards achieving its 
twin strategic goals of further diversification and moving up the value 
chain. We have continued to focus on driving a higher level of organic growth 
from our portfolio of world leading products and technologies, invested 
in a number of strategically important areas and have acquired two highly 
complementary companies during FY 2016.
G&H’s FY 2016 financial expectations were met, with revenue and adjusted 
profit growth of 9.3% and 9.7% respectively. This was achieved despite 
challenging first quarter market conditions in our industrial laser business 
and is testament to the resilience of the business and our active policy of 
diversification designed to offset the impact of the economic cycle on 
some of our core markets. 
In addition to pursuing further diversification we want to build a company 
that moves up the value chain by selling sub-systems and systems wherever 
possible. The Systems Technology Group (STG), based at our Torquay site, 
is dedicated to helping G&H achieve this and now has over 30 engineers 
and scientists. They bring a wide range of skills such as electronic, software 
and mechanical engineering, which are necessary if we are to present a 
complete sub-system or system to our customers.
The most notable success of the STG during FY 2016 has been the growth 
of the strategically important space satellite communications business. 
Funding has been secured from the European Space Agency, UK Space 
Agency and other sources to pursue leading edge research and we have 
won our first commercial contract for the development of critical 
subsystems used in inter satellite communications.
Our performance improvement plan has made further progress during the 
course of the year. The aim is to develop a more unified business where 
the skills, expertise and technologies across our nine sites are better 
leveraged throughout G&H and our customers are presented with a 
more complete and professional offering. 
G&H’s operations group has now established small globally focused teams 
representing each of the key manufacturing disciplines. They hold each 
site to the same high standards and have made a good start on introducing 
lean manufacturing principles. The recently introduced A&D business 
development executives have brought enhanced access to tier 1 companies 
and helped develop new A&D focused R&D projects. In FY 2016 we hired 
our first Life Science business development executive in the USA and 
intend to achieve similar positive results in this sector. A more targeted 
approach has been taken towards R&D, with better funded projects and 
this has resulted in a record 21 new products in FY 2016.
The Industrial sector represents 63% of G&H’s revenue and has provided 
most of the growth during FY 2016. A&D and Life Sciences give a better 
balance to our business, provide significant opportunities for our 
technologies and have greater potential than Industrials for moving up the 
value chain. It is our intention to grow A&D and Life Sciences to levels where 
we can, over time, establish a similar critical mass to our Industrial sector. 
This will be achieved through a mix of investment in R&D and acquisitions.
To this end, we acquired two A&D businesses during 2016:
•  Kent Periscopes Ltd (Kent) is a UK based supplier of periscopes, vehicle 
sights and related equipment for land based armoured vehicles. Its proven 
capability in system level optical products in harsh environments and 
impressive ‘blue chip’ customer list make it a great fit. Kent will benefit 
from G&H’s greater global reach and complementary technologies.
•  The trade and assets of Alfalight Inc, a designer and manufacturer of high 
reliability, laser based, electro-optic systems for defence and security 
applications, based in Madison, Wisconsin. It is highly complementary to 
our existing Boston, Massachusetts site and will be incorporated into 
this business unit.
The completion of substantial infrastructure investment in our T orquay site 
has enabled us to meet the challenge of the exceptional year on year growth 
of our high reliability fibre couplers for undersea cables. Our Palo Alto 
facility has now completed its move across the San Francisco Bay to a 
purpose built facility in Fremont, with plenty of room for further growth 
for its core business, based on fibre lasers and 40G / 100G modulation 
systems for land based telecommunications. The Cleveland site which 
houses our strategically important crystal growth facility will complete 
its upgrade project during FY 2017.
G&H is in a strong position financially and is well positioned to make 
further investment in the business.
Markets and Applications
Industrial
The Industrial sector represents 63% of G&H’s revenue and is composed 
of a diverse range of industrial applications aligned to our world class 
photonic technologies, including microelectronic manufacturing, 
semiconductor manufacturing and test, remote sensing, metrology  
and telecommunications.
Our Industrials division grew by £8.2 million or 17.9% compared to previous 
year and this is reflective of a number of positive market trends in this 
sector. This growth was achieved despite the challenging market 
conditions for microelectronic manufacturing in China and the far east, 
which saw a slow down in the first quarter. The industrial laser market did 
pick up markedly for the rest of the year and when combined with record 
orders for our fibre based business it led to a higher second half weighting 
than last year and a strong overall performance.
There is a general trend towards fibre optic solutions across a range of 
applications and this is especially so for lasers used in materials 
processing applications. Fibre lasers are gaining share from solid state 
lasers and at the same time increasing the number of applications where 
STRATEGIC REPORT GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC 09
Chief Executive Officer’s 
Statement
‘‘
During FY 2016 G&H made good 
progress with its strategic goals of 
further diversification and moving 
up the value chain; we met our 
financial objectives; made a 
number of strategically important 
investments and have acquired two 
highly complementary companies.” STRATEGIC REPORT GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC 10
lasers have utility; this is due to fibre lasers often providing improved 
reliability and flexibility at a lower cost.
G&H is a world leader in acousto-optic products for industrial lasers and is 
well positioned to take advantage of this trend. Fibre laser components 
now represent a higher proportion of our business than the traditional 
conduction cooled or water cooled “Q-switches” for solid state lasers. The 
ground breaking Fibre-Q used for a range of laser modulation applications 
was the recipient of a prestigious Queen’s Award for Enterprise in the 
Innovation category this year. We remain committed to further investment 
in new products and cost reduction initiatives in this area to enable us to 
retain our market leading position.
This year saw the first contract for our precision measurement system 
used on smart phone/ tablet production lines and is an area of good 
future potential.
The semiconductor manufacture and test market showed strong growth 
during FY 2016. Laser technology is essential to enhance miniaturisation 
and speed in this fast moving sector, which means that we see this as a 
good growth driver for G&H over the medium term.
Remote sensing took a step forward this year with a hard-earned security 
and surveillance contract for an oil pipeline.
The need for ever more data capacity from government, industry and the 
consumer has driven an especially strong telecommunications performance. 
G&H provides the more technically challenging elements to both land 
based and undersea telecommunications systems. There has been a 
significant ‘uptick’ in demand for our ultra high reliability fibre couplers 
which are used in amplifiers on the sea bed in the undersea cable network. 
This growth is driven by ‘non-traditional’ investors in these undersea 
networks from ‘Silicon Valley’ that want to control their own traffic.
Aerospace & Defence
A&D represented 23% of our revenue in FY 2016, and was flat on the 
previous year. This reflects a sector that for G&H’s range of technological 
capabilities is a target rich environment, but a business that has not yet 
reached a critical mass. The two recent A&D acquisitions coupled with 
the investment in new areas of growth such as SWIR lenses, for low light 
environments and our developing position in space satellite 
communications are key ‘steps on the way’ to achieving this.
Product quality, reliability and performance are essential success criteria in 
the A&D arena and that plays to G&H’s strengths. We have well established 
positions in target designation, range finding, ring laser and fibre optic 
gyroscope navigational systems, infra red and RF countermeasures and 
have recently added SWIR lenses, for low light environments and space 
photonics. The customers for our products encompass the major A&D 
companies in both Europe and the USA.
Our fibre optic and infrared capabilities very much reflect the ‘direction of 
travel’ for this sector as our A&D customers upgrade their products to lighter, 
more durable and reliable technologies. Many of our customers in this sector 
prefer to buy sub-systems and integrate them into their systems and 
though the quality barriers to this are challenging we have succeeded 
with some high profile companies in selling sub systems rather than just 
high quality critical components and are actively trying to move more 
customers up the value chain.
Space satellite communication is entering into a new period of development 
based on lighter, more efficient and robust fibre optic technology and G&H 
is at the leading edge of this revolution.
Life Sciences
Life Sciences represents 9% of G&H’s revenue and after a strong year last 
year sales were down. As with A&D we see good potential for our 
technologies in this sector, a greater ability to move up the value chain 
than with Industrials, but a business that has not yet reached critical mass. 
It is therefore susceptible to the ordering patterns of one or two customers. 
The desired “future state” will be achieved through a combination of 
investment in R&D and acquisitions. 
The principal applications are in optical coherence tomography (OCT), laser 
surgery and microscopy. OCT is widely used in ophthalmology and G&H has 
developed a strong position with the main participants in this market. The 
potential for this technology to be used in other areas of medical diagnostics 
is high and we have a number of programmes with medical diagnostic 
companies designed to exploit these opportunities. 11 GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC  
|
 STRATEGIC REPORT GOOCH & HOUSEGO PLC
‘‘
G&H is in a strong position 
financially and is well positioned 
to make further investment in  
the business.”
Laser surgery is a fast growing area particularly in ophthalmology, prostate 
and aesthetic treatments and has the potential to be exploited beyond 
these current areas of high use. 
G&H has established a sub-system presence with a number of our 
customers and our aim is to extend this during FY 2017. 
Scientific Research 
G&H’s scientific research market is dominated by a small number of ‘big 
science’ projects in the fields of nuclear fusion research and synchrotron 
radiation sources. It provides 5% of our revenue and revenue is flat year- 
on-year. This is a prestigious and profitable sector for G&H where we have 
some unique capabilities and over time this is an area that should provide 
steady growth, and we will continue to selectively invest in this area.
Outlook
During FY 2016 G&H made good progress with its strategic goals of further 
diversification and moving up the value chain; we met our financial 
objectives; made a number of strategically important investments and 
have acquired two highly complementary companies.
We are committed to make further R&D investment in our targeted high 
growth areas. These include fibre optic  lasers, fibre optic sensing, precision 
inspection equipment for microelectronic manufacturing, laser surgery , A&D 
sub systems, OCT medical diagnostics and space satellite communications.
G&H intends to build on the good progress made with our performance 
improvement programme by: further improving operational efficiency, with 
particular reference to the introduction of lean manufacturing across all our 
sites; continuing to invest in A&D business development, establishing 
similar business development activity in Life Sciences and focussing our 
resources on fewer, but higher return R&D projects.
We will continue with an active policy of making further progress towards 
a more diverse and balanced business by building critical mass in A&D and 
Life Sciences through a mix of R&D investment and acquisitions.
These strategic initiatives combined with a record year end order book 
mean the Board remains confident that Gooch and Housego is well 
positioned to deliver further progress in FY 2017 and beyond.
Mark Webster
Chief Executive Officer
29 November 2016
