 Chief Executive’s Statement
It’s been emotional.
2012’s flat result meant a miserable start to the year but the restored 17% revenue growth in 2013 was hugely 
uplifting to Company spirits as well as financials. The year was testament to our collective tenacity and tempera-
ment, as well as to the market moving meaningfully in our direction. 
For many years we have been the most vocal and profound advocate of applying Behavioural Science to 
improving the predictive power of market research and helping clients do 5-Star marketing that improves their 
brands’ fame and fortune. This involves replacing the overly-rational existing models of research and marketing 
with more emotional measures and models that better reflect how people really make decisions. The plausible but 
flawed era of persuasion-based marketing gives way to a more challenging but effective era of seduction-based 
marketing. Homo Economicus is dead; long live Homo Emoticus. 
2013 seemed to mark the year the industry woke up to this shift, with speaker after speaker at conferences 
around the world falling over themselves to use the language of Behavioural Science. But, while the rest of the 
industry talks about the potential of Behavioural Sciences, we’re already applying our award-winning suite of 
Juicy tools and models to help clients create famous marketing that impacts their bottom line.
Advertising is the most publicly-visible manifestation of how our behavioural approach helps clients. As it 
happens, we were intimately involved in the development of two of the most successful advertising campaigns 
of 2013, one on each side of the Atlantic: 3 Mobile Moonwalking Pony (over 7m YouTube views) and Guinness 
Wheelchair Basketball (over 7m YouTube views). Both adverts continue to have a tremendous impact on their 
respective businesses and, at the time of writing, 3 Mobile have launched Singing Kitty, their 2014 follow up 
which already has over 4.9m views in just a few days. As well as helping John Lewis test their annual blockbuster 
Christmas advert in the UK, we also launched the FeelMore50™ in the US, a league table of the year’s strongest, 
most emotional adverts, which has generated a great deal of press and client interest. We’ll be repeating the 
FeelMore50™ in the US for 2014 and extending it to UK. FaceTrace®, our award winning measure of emotion has 
now been answered over five million times by over three million people. And, having tested over 3,300 adverts 
across 40 countries, we have amassed the databases to calibrate results from individual tests, and be a credible 
global ad testing partner. It’s now a case of whether and when clients move away from their current persuasion-
based models and embrace seduction-based advertising.
Tellingly, the large research groups are adopting the new language of emotions and even adding more emo-
tional measures to their tests, but critically, they are not using this data to change how they measure their 
results. Nor are they changing their model of how advertising works, because that would be to admit they’ve had 
it wrong for decades and render useless their huge normative database of redundant persuasion-based measures. 
Without changing their model of interpretation, no amount of new emotional measures will improve their recom-
mendations, and we believe this will reveal itself over the same time period BrainJuicer’s emotional and more 
predictive model becomes associated with increasingly famous ad campaigns.
 The same pattern is repeated when it comes to our other Juicy research tools. The market is starting to talk 
about how to apply Behavioural Science to concept testing, pack testing, insight generation and brand tracking, 
while we’re busy doing it. Our best-selling Juicy tool, Predictive Markets [PMs], is also our most controversial. 
It uses emotional measures, the wisdom of crowds and a game-format to ask people what they feel ‘other people’ 
would buy or not buy. It has proven highly discriminatory and predictive of winning concepts, and avoids the 
well-documented flaws of current concept testing: people being unreliable predictors of their own behaviour, 
BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
over-rational measures being unpredictive of in-market success, nearly all concept results falling close to the 
norm and enormous differences in scoring from country to country.
Since introducing PMs in 2006, we have won several awards and more than 200 companies have used the tech-
nique, testing over 25,000 concepts across more than 70 countries and achieving significant in-market success. 
The controversial nature of PMs meant they grew slowly at first while clients trialled and proved their superior 
predictive power over current methods but, for the last 4 years, PMs have experienced significant year-on-year 
growth and are increasingly being adopted by large companies. 
Our experience with Predictive Markets is likely to prove illustrative of client adoption across our whole 
suite of Behavioural Science-inspired Juicy products, covering insight generation, concept testing, pack test-
ing, ad testing, shopper marketing and brand tracking. It’s possible the industry’s increasing enthusiasm for 
Behavioural Science may well speed acceptance, growth and the rate at which we achieve our goal of becoming 
brand leader in these areas. Last year our Juicy tools grew 28%, now accounting for 74% of our business and with 
the added advantages of being highly differentiated, premium priced, higher margin, more international, larger-
sized projects and much more likely to be mandated by large clients. As testament to the appeal of our Juicy tools 
with these clients, we grew revenue 61% with our top 10 clients in 2013 – all of which are multinationals. We’re 
also hugely proud to have been voted ‘Most Innovative Research Agency’ for the third year running in the inter-
national GRIT report’s study among 2,300 clients and agencies. The large research groups will no doubt increase 
their use of the language of Behavioural Science and add some of the new emotional measures, but unless they 
fundamentally change their models of interpretation and lose their historical normative database advantage, 
their predictive power will not improve. 
It feels we’re at a seminal moment in the research industry and BrainJuicer’s history. Fourteen years in, we 
have made a good start in our mission to reinvent market research, creating and validating a suite of market-
changing Juicy research approaches based on Behavioural Science. Hopefully for the next fourteen, the market 
will continue to move our way, we’ll continue to hire the best and the brightest, working in a truly innovative 
Juicy culture, and help more clients produce famous marketing that drives significant growth.
The coming years should be exciting.
JOHN KEARON
Chief Juicer
20 March 2014
 
4
