 Some years ago we determined to build a long term
business on long term capital and we developed an equity
base from which we could ourselves provide the financing
for Syndicate 102 we manage at Lloyd’s. We were at 
the forefront of these moves. In the last year Lloyd’s has
announced its plans for restructuring as a franchise
operation, moving to annual accounting and ending the 
era of the name. We strongly support all of Lloyd’s moves
in these areas.
Lloyd’s provides the licences necessary for our direct
insurance business and we look forward to continuing 
to grow the capacity of our insurance syndicate in that
market. In 2002 we had capacity of £200 million of premium
income. It is now increased to £225 million and we are
considering a further increase during this year. We expect
to continue to be highly selective of the business we write
in a particularly healthy market. Our control systems require
each risk to be fully evaluated and priced and the aggregates
of the risks closely monitored. We have the knowledge and
experience to lead business in each of the fourteen classes
that we write at Lloyd’s. But it is an expensive environment
in which to operate and the risk based capital process
remains complicated and lacks transparency.
Lloyd’s costs, the costs of regulation and a more realistic
capitalisation requirement for writing reinsurance all
provided an incentive for us to investigate the insurance
business that we could develop in Bermuda. Although we
were one of the smaller start up companies in Bermuda in
2002 with an initial capital base of $140 million, GoshawK Re
had a stunningly successful year. We have concentrated 
on building a high quality team of people operating within
tight controls and focused on a limited number of niche
operating fields. We are looking to repeat these earlier
successes during 2003 and are working on a more
ambitious business plan which envisages further increasing
GoshawK Re’s capital base.
Whilst prudent underwriting is one of the keys to a
successful insurance business, management of investments
is clearly another one. Even in the turbulent financial
markets of the past three years, GoshawK has continued
to make strong positive returns on its investments. We
work with top quality fund managers and devote considerable
time and attention to monitoring investment trends, sector
allocations and benchmarking. We continued to exceed 
our long term expected rates of return during 2002. This
may well prove to be an ambitious goal in 2003 when the
United States and European economies are likely to have
reached a low point in the interest rate cycle and when
many opportunities to achieve increased returns from fixed
interest securities are clearly accompanied by increased
risks. We remain strongly risk averse and, in extremely
volatile markets, insistent on making positive rates of return.
GoshawK Insurance Holdings plc
Annual report and accounts 2002
Chairman’s statement
GoshawK is reporting the best results 
in its history. Results like this do not 
just happen even in a strong market.
They also reflect the fact that most of
the strategic decisions that we have
made have been the right ones and that
we have been able to manage our 
way successfully through a period of
enormous change. They are a credit 
to the whole company.
02 GoshawK Insurance Holdings plc
Annual report and accounts 2002 03
The profits from our underwriting activities and the returns
achieved from investments both combined to produce a
healthy result and allow us to propose a final dividend of
2.0p per share, so making a total 3.0p per share for 2002.
We recognise that our shareholders look for a prudent but
progressive dividend policy and we expect to deliver it.
There are many areas of concern in the environment in
which we are operating today and we continue to seek
ways in which we can mitigate the many risks inherent in
our business. We have determined that we should increase
the number of non executive directors on our board in
order to access views from a broader parish. We are
expanding our in-house actuarial group to strengthen our
capacity to model increasingly sophisticated reserving
concepts. We are also adding to our compliance, review
and internal audit group to allow a larger amount of 
pre-audit work to be completed internally. These actions
should also permit us to pursue prompt and ambitious
deadlines with the certainty of being able to achieve them.
2003 is set to be another year of achievement for
GoshawK within our specialist business sectors which
continue to enjoy a strong rating environment. The growth
that we are committed to requires further capital to support
it and we have been increasing the Group’s borrowings and
expanding our banking facilities to provide this capital. We
are committed to use this leverage prudently to fuel further
expansion of the business in the areas that we know best.
David S Hooker
Chairman
19 March 2003
Our shareholders look for a prudent but
progressive dividend policy and we
expect to deliver it.
Net premiums earned
+55%
