 BrainJuicer Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Statement
2014 has been another successful year for BrainJuicer in most regards. Although revenue 
increased by only 1%, to £24.65m, the increase at constant exchange rates was 5%. Overheads were well 
controlled, and after a lower bonus pool than in 2013 and a modest charge for share based payments, pre-tax 
profits were 21% up on the prior year at £4.29m. Fully diluted earnings per share increased by 14% to 21.3p. As 
in previous years, this progress resulted entirely from organic growth within the business.
The Board is proposing to pay a final dividend of 3.3p per share, an increase of 10% over the comparable 
2013 payment. This would take the full year ordinary dividend pay-out to 4.3p (£0.54m, an increase of 11%). In 
addition, a special dividend of 12.0p per share was paid to shareholders in May 2014.
In total, we returned over £3.95m of capital during 2014 via dividends, share buy-backs and cash settled 
management equity awards. Reflecting strong cash generation, which has always been a striking feature of our 
business, BrainJuicer ended 2014 with a substantial cash balance of £5.35m, equivalent to 41p per share and 
only £0.84m lower than at the end of 2013. BrainJuicer has no debt.
John Kearon, our Chief Executive or “Chief Juicer”, and James Geddes, our Chief Financial Officer, will 
review BrainJuicer’s progress in 2014 from their perspective in the sections which follow this Chairman’s 
Statement. From my vantage point, and despite modest revenue growth, I have been encouraged to see 
BrainJuicer further strengthening its underlying position within the market research industry.
For example, we once again strengthened our relationship with a number of the world’s largest consumer-
goods companies; revenue from our core (and overwhelmingly “Juicy”) quantitative products increased by 4%; 
and our business in the US (the world’s largest market for market research) grew revenue by 6% (and gross 
profit by 11%). 
We remain fully committed to delivering growth, and creating further value, over the medium and longer 
term. Experience has taught us that winning “mandates”, or “preferred supplier” status, does not always give 
rise to an immediate or significant increase in revenue from the client in question. We will nonetheless continue 
to pursue such opportunities – not least because winning them delivers further valuable endorsement for our 
behavioural science-based methodology. We will try to generate growth from the introduction of new variants 
of some of our established products, and potentially also from acquisitions when we are convinced they will 
create value for BrainJuicer shareholders.
Recent or impending developments within the business have been made with this growth agenda firmly in 
mind. For example, Alex Hunt and Mark Johnson have been appointed to the newly created positions of Head 
of the Americas and Head of UK and Continental Europe respectively; we have introduced a more structured 
graduate recruitment and development programme in the UK and will be doing the same in New York; and we 
are preparing to move our HQ to larger offices in London during 2015.
Finally, and as BrainJuicer celebrates its 15th birthday, I would like to extend my thanks to all of our employ-
ees around the world for their hard work, determination, and camaraderie during what was yet again a good 
year for the business.
KEN FORD
Chairman
19 March 2015
2
