 Baroness Margaret Ford
Chairman
I am pleased to report significant 
progress following our changes 
in the executive leadership at the 
beginning of the year.
Shortly after taking office as Chief 
Executive, Helen Gordon, supported 
by an energetic leadership team, 
reviewed and refined the strategy 
the Board had initiated at the end of 
2015. She immediately set out the key 
milestones to achieving a step change in 
the strategic direction of the Company 
with the ultimate objective of improving 
value for all stakeholders. The benefits 
are already beginning to materialise and 
the future attractions of the business as 
an income generating, residential rental 
company are becoming increasingly clear.
In simple terms, we are shifting the nature 
of the business from a traditional trading 
model, heavily reliant on house price 
inflation as a driver of capital value, to 
an investment model with a sustainable 
and visible income stream from well-run 
private rented residential homes. 
The Grainger model continues to 
capture over time the full reversionary 
value of our regulated portfolio. 
The predictable cash flow from these 
properties is then reinvested directly  
into developing or acquiring modern, 
purpose-built residential rental 
properties. This is a significant growth 
market in the UK as the demand 
for homes outstrips supply and the 
option to rent becomes an increasingly 
attractive and affordable alternative  
to buying a home.
I am pleased to say that the new 
management team has lost no time 
in delivering on the milestones set out 
in January 2016 and in reshaping the 
organisation to support the strategy. 
Disposals have been made, costs 
have been cut, and resources have 
been concentrated on identifying and 
creating a strong pipeline of private 
rented sector (‘PRS’) assets, that build 
on our heritage and will deliver strong, 
sustainable shareholder returns over 
the coming years. 
The transition from strategy to 
implementation has been short and 
decisive and I would like to thank all of 
my colleagues on the Board for their 
tremendous effort in achieving this. 
The effective management and proper 
governance of the Group is critical to our 
continued success and I have set out on 
pages 43 to 53 a number of key actions 
that we have taken to ensure that it 
remains of the highest standard.
We have also enjoyed strong support 
from the majority of our Shareholders 
for our move to a UK residential rental 
model with a greater focus on reliable 
income. Their support of this and our 
new management team during this  
first year of transition has been  
much appreciated. 
A period of significant progress
Strategic report – Chairman’s letter
Sadly we have to report that this year 
we lost Stephen Dickinson, who died 
after a short illness. Stephen joined 
Grainger in 1974 and was an extremely 
effective Chief Executive of the 
Company until 2002, eventually retiring 
from the Board in 2009, and was 
instrumental in leading the Company 
from private to public ownership. He 
was a wonderful person who left a very 
strong legacy and will be much missed 
by all at Grainger.
Finally, we never forget that over 18,000 
people choose to make their home with 
Grainger. We take that responsibility 
very seriously and our staff will continue 
to go the extra mile for our customers, 
day in and day out providing the best 
service and best support possible. 
Baroness Margaret Ford 
Chairman 
1 December 2016
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 8
