 Highlights
 NNNAV up 8.9% to 287p
 Net rental income up 15% 
 Adjusted earnings up 69%
 Operating costs reduced by 24%
 Dividend per share increased by 64%
 Profit before tax up 64% to £84.2m
Helen Gordon
Chief Executive
This is my first full year statement 
to you as Chief Executive of your 
Company and I am pleased to report 
a solid performance and the swift 
execution of the planned strategic 
changes in the business, which will 
ultimately drive all stakeholder value. 
I set out in this report how we have 
simplified and put focus into the 
business to capture the opportunity 
created by the growing demand for 
private rental housing in the UK. 
Strategic review
In January I presented my review of 
the Company’s strategy. The strategy 
positions Grainger for sustainable 
growth in an emerging sector. It is 
designed to grow rents, simplify and 
focus the business and build on the 
operational strength and foundations 
of over 100 years of renting homes.
I was supported in this review by an 
enthusiastic and engaged leadership 
team. The whole of the Grainger team 
provided insights and contributions. The 
review examined every division and all 
assets and portfolios were appraised 
and avenues for growth explored.
The key findings supported our 
view that there is a significant market 
opportunity in an area where Grainger 
has unparalleled expertise and 
committed employees ready for change.
We identified the need for Grainger to 
focus on growing rental income, to exit 
non-UK assets and dispose of assets 
which consume shareholder capital and 
were focused on capital growth.
We concluded that our regulated 
tenancy business remains a compelling 
investment with robust cash flows. The 
retention of these assets supports and 
provides financing for Grainger’s 
evolution to our new PRS model. Most 
importantly, this PRS model will establish 
Grainger as an income generating quoted 
vehicle, which provides Shareholders 
easy and liquid access to the UK’s 
high-growth PRS market, which is 
otherwise only achievable through direct 
real estate investment. 
Delivering on our strategy 
of simplifying the business
During the year we sold our  
non-core assets and reorganised 
our operational platform. 
In January 2016 we agreed to sell our 
Equity Release business as it was no 
longer complementary to Grainger’s 
core focus. This was completed in 
May 2016.
Having decided to sell our German 
business, we disposed of a series of 
portfolios. We sold our German joint 
venture in January. In February we 
agreed to sell our German business 
platform with one of the portfolios, 
thereby securing the majority of the 
Grainger employees’ jobs with the new 
owners and reducing exit costs. The 
majority of remaining assets were also 
Maximising the opportunity  
in the private rented sector
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s strategic review 
sold by May 2016. We disposed of surplus 
land at Kennel Farm, Basingstoke, and in 
August we were able to secure the 
unwinding of our joint venture in Prague 
by securing planning consent and 
disposing of the land. I am pleased to 
report that these disposals have been 
achieved profitably, while successfully 
securing the future for Grainger 
colleagues within those non- core 
businesses under their new owners. 
These disposals reduced the quantum 
and cost of debt and enabled us to 
embark on a restructuring of our more 
expensive debt resulting in further cost 
reductions. This is explained more fully  
in the Financial review. In June 2016 we 
embarked on the restructuring of our 
operations by removing divisions and 
restructuring the business into Property 
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
Strategic report Strategic report – Chief Executive’s strategic review 
continued
and Operations (a PropCo/OpCo model) 
backed by our central corporate teams. 
This is designed to focus on driving 
capital and income growth in the 
business as well as significantly reducing 
overheads. The benefit of this will be 
fully realised in 2017 when overheads 
are on track to be 24% lower than 
in 2015. We will continue to pursue 
ongoing improvements where possible, 
realising further cost efficiencies that 
our new model creates.
Delivering on our strategy of 
growing rents and dividends
The growth of our rental income is 
at the heart of the strategic objective 
of delivering shareholder returns 
which are a balanced mixture of both 
income and capital growth. During 
this transitional period to 2020 we have 
linked our dividend directly to net rental 
income and will distribute the equivalent 
of 50% of net rents to Shareholders. 
The majority of Grainger staff are also 
Shareholders and this approach will 
further incentivise the teams to drive 
rental growth alongside providing a 
high-quality service.
In January we announced a target that 
over 50% of our wholly-owned assets 
would be modern PRS stock by 2020 and 
that by that date net rental income 
would exceed profit from sales. This is a 
model which is more income focused and 
structured to give more sustainable and 
less volatile returns. 
We also announced we would invest 
£850m (c.£1. 1bn alongside our partners) 
in the PRS between now and 2020. I 
am pleased to announce that we have 
already achieved significant progress 
and have secured £389m with a further 
pipeline of £347m of potential sites in 
the planning or legal process. 
The growth in rents has been achieved 
by new acquisitions but also by the 
operations team delivering great 
customer service and encouraging 
our customers to stay for longer, and 
increasing demand for our homes.
Disciplined approach to acquisition
We have restructured our investment 
and acquisitions teams to enable them 
to identify and assess opportunities 
quickly in our target markets, and 
provided an investment framework 
which is supported by rigorous analysis 
and in-depth local knowledge. This has 
dramatically increased the number of 
opportunities we are evaluating and has 
enabled us to make good progress on  
our pipeline.
UK PRS market 
As you will read in the market review 
section of this report, the demand for 
renting is growing and this trend is set 
to continue. Ten years ago, one in ten 
households in England rented privately. 
T oday it is one in five. In London, it is one 
in four. PwC predicts that 1.8 million new 
rental homes will be required by 2025 to 
meet demand. This demand, coupled 
with positive support for the build-to-rent 
sector and large scale institutional 
investment in the PRS, presents Grainger 
with a very compelling opportunity.
As the UK market leader in the 
residential rental sector, we are targeting 
investment in the PRS in key target cities 
where demand for renting is highest and 
local economic prospects are greatest, 
including cities with top universities 
and good graduate retention, teaching 
hospitals and strong professional 
services. Our top five target cities are: 
London, Manchester, Bristol, Birmingham 
and Leeds. I am pleased to say that we 
have secured sizeable investments in four 
of five of these cities since we launched 
our strategy. 
2016: A year of 
significant action
  Vanessa Simms joins as  
Chief Financial Officer
  Sale of German business 
  Secured £100m PRS 
development, Clippers Quay
  Appointment of Helen Gordon 
as Chief Executive
  Sale of Retirement Solutions, 
Equity Release business
  New strategy and vision 
announced, including pledge 
to invest £850m by 2020 
  Acquisition of PRS asset, Kew 
Bridge Court by GRIP 
  £124m secured in PRS pipeline
  PRS rental growth of c.3.6% in 
six months to the end of March
Q1 Q2
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 10 Working in partnership
Our reputation of working in partnership 
and taking the long-term view of key 
relationships is well established. Whilst 
we are clear about our commitment to 
existing partners, we believe we should 
drive returns for our shareholders and 
not take on more third-party property 
management mandates at this time. 
Our relationship with APG is important 
to us and I am delighted that GRIP , our 
fund with APG, was converted to a Real 
Estate Investment Trust (REIT) in July 
of this year.
Our partners in local and central 
government are important to 
us. We are aligned in our objective 
of creating new high-quality homes. 
Grainger’s longevity and commitment 
to stewardship with communities has 
been evidenced across a number of 
development projects. In particular, our 
work at Aldershot in partnership with the 
Defence Infrastructure Organisation 
(part of the Ministry of Defence) and our 
developments with the Royal Borough of 
Kensington and Chelsea are both worthy 
of highlighting.
We continue to work with some 
housebuilders and to look for ways in 
which to increase the availability of private 
rental housing stock in the UK which is 
complementary to housebuilders’ needs 
to build new homes. 
Political and legislative changes
There is an undersupply of quality 
housing in the UK and this has been 
recognised by central and local 
government. Whilst the political 
environment has been largely 
supportive, the sector was adversely 
affected by an additional 3% stamp 
duty land tax surcharge on second 
homes in the Spring. In June the vote to 
leave the European Union was seen to 
have a negative impact on the housing 
market but was not evidenced in our 
sales pipeline, and the PRS sector is 
widely regarded as one of the most 
resilient real estate classes post the 
EU referendum.
Outlook 
2016 has been a landmark year for 
Grainger. The team has worked hard to 
support the delivery of the key milestones 
of the strategy. The UK PRS market is on 
the cusp of high growth as it provides a 
practical and compelling solution to the 
housing shortage in the UK. Grainger’s 
established leading market position and 
operational expertise provide us with 
confidence that we can capture this 
market opportunity to its fullest. 
2017 will be an important year for 
Grainger as we forge ahead with the 
transition into a more balanced rental 
model and as we realise the benefits 
of the restructuring and continue to 
manage our all-important portfolio 
of regulated tenancies. 
Our long-term aspirations for 
Grainger are for the business to be the 
acknowledged leader in the PRS market in 
the UK, delivering quality services whilst 
generating strong shareholder returns.
Grainger has seen substantial change 
and I would like to take the opportunity 
of thanking each and every one of our 
staff with whom so much has been 
and will be achieved. Together with our 
Shareholders, we look forward to an 
exciting and profitable future ahead. 
Helen Gordon
Chief Executive
1 December 2016
  GRIP converted to UK REIT status
  Legacy swaps recouponed, 
reducing cost of debt to around 4%
  Acquisition of £40m PRS 
development in Leeds, 
Yorkshire Post
  Czech Republic land sale
  Total cost savings of 24% identified
  New dividend policy linked to 
growing net rental income and 
PRS investment pipeline
  Organisation restructured into 
Property and Operations teams
  £389m secured in PRS pipeline
Moving forward  
into 2017
  Grow net rental income
  Continue improving 
operational efficiency
Q3 Q4
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 11
Strategic report
