 Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 5
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman’s statement
A STRONG BUSINESS
—
I became chairman of Greene King on 2 May 2016 and so this is my first 
report to you on the company, its performance and prospects. Greene King 
is a strong business with an excellent track record and, following the acquisition 
of Spirit Pub Company during the year, we are at an exciting time in our 
development. I look forward to working with the board and senior executive 
team to build upon the success of my predecessor in creating further value 
for all our stakeholders. 
Overview
2016 was a year of strong growth for Greene King, reflecting a continued 
good performance from the underlying business, enhanced by a substantial 
contribution from Spirit. Including a 45 week contribution from Spirit, group 
revenue grew 57.6% and exceeded £2bn. Including synergies, operating 
profit before exceptional items increased by 53.1% and profit before tax 
and exceptional items grew 52.2% to £256.5m, resulting in a 14.6% increase 
in adjusted earnings per share to 69.9p. Cash generation remained strong 
and net debt to EBITDA improved to 3.9x. Excellent progress has been made 
integrating the Spirit business and we realised synergies ahead of target 
in the	first	year.	
Dividend
As a result of this strong growth and reflecting confidence in future prospects, 
the board has recommended a final dividend of 23.6p, giving a total dividend 
for the year of 32.05p. This represents growth of 7.7% compared to last 
year and continues the long-term track record of progressive dividends. 
The board continues to target minimum cover of around two times earnings.
Our people
Greene King is a people business and the strength of the business performance 
during the Spirit integration demonstrates the dedication, hard work and 
passion of our teams. I would like to thank everyone who has worked so 
hard within the enlarged group during the last year to deliver such strong 
results while successfully integrating Spirit. 
Board changes
On 2 February 2016, it was announced that Tim Bridge would be retiring 
at the end of the financial year after more than 45 years with the company 
including ten years as chief executive followed by over ten years as chairman. 
Under Tim’s leadership, Greene King has been transformed and it is a testament 
to his astute assessment of people and business opportunities that the group 
is in such a good state both operationally and financially. It is a privilege to 
succeed	Tim	Bridge	as	chairman 	and	on	behalf	of	the	board	I would	like	to	
thank him for his enormous contribution to Greene King over the years. 
At the beginning of the financial year, Rob Rowley took over the role of 
senior independent director and will be taking the chairmanship of the audit 
committee at this year’s annual general meeting (AGM). Ian Durant will be 
retiring at the AGM after completing nine years as a director, latterly as chair 
of audit, and I wish to record our sincere thanks for his valuable input 
and advice 	over	this	period.	
Looking ahead
The choice available to the UK consumer who wants to enjoy a drink or 
a meal 	with	family	or	friends	has	never	been	wider	and	capital 	continues	
to be attracted to leisure dining. Greene King has great teams, great brands 
and great assets and is well placed within this dynamic environment. The 
recent decision by the UK to leave the EU will need time to be implemented 
and the uncertainty this brings is likely to weigh on the economy in the 
near term. We will not be immune from its effects, but our business has 
shown resilience in the past, our teams are motivated and, particularly 
following the Spirit acquisition, we have many opportunities. I look 
forward to reporting on our continued progress.
Philip Yea
Chairman
28 June 2016
“ We are at an exciting time 
in our development following 
the acquisition of Spirit.”
Chief executive’s review page 12
Board of directors page 46
Corporate governance page 47
