 STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief executive’s review
A TRANSFORMATIONAL YEAR
GROUP REVENUE WAS:
£2,073.0m
OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 
EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS WAS UP:
53.1%
PROFIT BEFORE TAX 
AND EXCEPTIONALS WAS:
£256.5m
ADJUSTED BASIC EARNINGS 
PER SHARE GREW:
14.6%
It has been a transformational year for Greene King, with the acquisition 
of Spirit in June 2015 followed by significant progress integrating the ‘best 
of both’ businesses and realising cost synergies, helping to deliver further 
improvement in earnings and dividends, and strong returns. 
Trading environment
In the first half, improvements in the economic environment, including 
increased consumer confidence and sustained real income growth, were 
slow to positively impact the UK eating and drinking out market. As the 
UK referendum approached in the second half, the environment softened 
and consumers appeared more reluctant to spend discretionary income 
due to the uncertainty. 
Following the UK’s vote to leave the European Union, the increasingly 
uncertain trading environment is likely to weigh on consumer sentiment 
in the	near	term.	However,	Greene	King	has	a	strong	track	record	of	
performing well in challenging trading environments and we have levers 
to pull	within	our	business,	particularly 	following	the	Spirit	acquisition,	
to refocus	our	investment	and	help	limit	the	indirect	impact	from	lower	
consumer confidence. In addition, we have limited exposure to European 
sales, although we have some exposure to foreign exchange rate movements 
through overseas sourcing. We will look to mitigate the impact of this 
as far 	as	possible.	
Outside of the consequences of the vote, UK eating and drinking out 
remains a dynamic market with intense competition for every pound in 
the consumer pocket. This environment of increasing consumer choice 
extends beyond the traditional pub and restaurant sector and includes 
the supermarkets	and	the	takeaway 	aggregators 	who	have	made	eating	
at home	more	attractive. 	Understanding	this,	and	ensuring	our	offer	is	
compelling enough to compete successfully with this broader competitive 
set, is increasingly important for delivering long-term growth.
Consumers remain highly value conscious with a heightened awareness 
of price,	a	demand	for	excellent	and	personalised	service,	and	a	desire	for	
higher quality on the plate and in the glass. These trends will be exacerbated 
by the uncertainty surrounding Brexit and we are well positioned to take 
advantage of any weakening in spending power utilising our successful 
value brands and formats. 
They are also seeking experiences they can share with both friends and 
family and with a much wider audience on social media. Our aim is to create 
experiences that our customers will value and remember, and that they 
want to share with others. While digital and technology will increasingly 
contribute to the overall customer experience, it is the physical interaction 
with our people and our pubs that will enhance these experiences. We 
believe that our high quality estate, together with our approach to digital, 
can set us apart from our broad competitive set.
— Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 13
STRATEGIC REPORT
Our people are core to our business and we constantly strive to pay them 
appropriately for their hard work while also ensuring we maintain a high 
level of investment in their development and training. We remain confident 
of being able to mitigate most of the impact from the ongoing increases in 
the National Living Wage. We continue to expect the benefits of mitigating 
actions to be fully achieved in 2018/19 and there are no changes to our 
estimate that the incremental impact, over and above general wage inflation, 
will be £2m in the current financial year and will reach an annualised run 
rate of £6m per annum in 2018/19.
Now that the revised statutory Pubs Code has been announced, and 
assuming there are no further changes, we are planning for the introduction 
of the Code at the end of July 2016. We believe the overall financial impact 
on the group will be immaterial. 
Performance summary 
Total revenue grew 57.6% to £2,073.0m while operating profit
1
 was 53.1% 
higher than last year at £392.2m, including £16.7m of synergies achieved 
during the year. 
The operating margin was 18.9%, 0.6%pts lower than last year. This comprised 
a positive contribution from cost synergies, diluted by a higher contribution 
from managed pubs, higher lease costs following the Spirit acquisition and 
incremental investment in our people and in customer service.
In Pub Company, this investment in our people helped to drive LFL sales 
growth of 1.5%, ahead of the market
2
, and included LFL sales growth in 
the original Greene King managed estate of 1.9%. Total sales growth in 
Pub Company was 68.7% while operating profit grew by 56.8% to 
£299.2m. 13 new pubs were opened during the year. 
Having achieved a record customer satisfaction score in Greene King Pub 
Company in the first half, further progress was achieved in the second half 
resulting in a 7.9%pts increase in the full year. We also saw an improved trend 
in team member retention and in our food safety ratings. The improvements 
in these metrics indicate the success of our teams in continuing with 
business as usual during the integration process. 
The tenanted and leased businesses were successfully integrated at the end 
of the first half and the combined Pub Partners business grew LFL net income 
by 2.7% in the year. Average EBITDA per pub increased by 14.3% reflecting 
further improvements in estate quality as a result of the Spirit acquisition, 
the disposal of 48 pubs from the combined estate and synergy contribution. 
Brewing & Brands achieved record revenue of £196.9m, including 2.9% 
OBV growth, and we extended our share of the UK ale market by 40bps 
to 10.5%. Operating profit grew 9.7% to £32.7m.
The integration of Spirit progressed ahead of plan, with synergy realisation 
of £16.7m in the year exceeding our expectations. Overall, the positive 
group performance delivered a 24.1% increase in net cash flow generated 
from operations and we again covered our debt service obligation, core 
capital expenditure and dividend from internally generated cash. Net debt 
to EBITDA improved to 3.9x.
Adjusted earnings per share grew 14.6% to 69.9p and, as a result of 
this growth	and	our	confidence	in	the	future,	we	have	declared	a	7.7%	
increase in the dividend per share, maintaining our long-term progressive 
dividend policy.
The business achieved another year of robust returns, generating a ten 
basis point increase in ROCE to 9.4%, which remains comfortably ahead 
of our weighted average cost of capital (WACC). 
1.  Throughout this review, operating profit, operating profit margin and EBITDA 
are stated 	on	a	pre-exceptional	basis.
2. Coffer Peach Business Tracker.
Serving food 
at a Hungry Horse. GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2016 14
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief executive’s review	continued
Spirit integration 
On 23 June 2015, we completed the acquisition of Spirit Pub Company, 
adding 791 managed pubs and 416 tenanted and leased pubs to the estate. 
Following a thorough review of Spirit, we commenced the exciting task of 
integrating these two leading pub businesses using a ‘best of both’ companies 
approach. At the end of the first half of the year, our two tenanted and 
leased businesses were integrated ahead of schedule. We also drove strong 
acceptance of the Greene King beer brands within Spirit’s managed pubs 
and we announced a decision to retain both the Spirit and Greene King 
head offices. During the second half, the Greene King beer portfolio gained 
further traction within Spirit pubs, we commenced the roll out of the 
‘best of both’ pub IT system and the majority of the people transition 
was completed.
The scale of change in the combined business since the acquisition is significant. 
While maintaining trading momentum, we have driven fundamental 
improvements to how the business is structured and run. Keeping Spirit’s 
Burton office as the headquarters for our managed pub business and 
putting together a senior management team with the requisite retailing 
experience and skills has given us a platform to create an exceptional 
retailing business that can generate sustainable competitive advantage. 
Following a strong start, momentum with the realisation of cost synergies 
continued in the second half with good progress on procurement, where 
we saw a number of supplier negotiations concluded sooner than anticipated. 
As a result, £16.7m of cost synergies were achieved in the year compared 
with our original expectation of around £12m. We continue to anticipate 
annual cost synergies in the region of £35m by the end of 2017/18, of 
which 80% will be realised by the end of this financial year. Non-recurring 
costs of achieving these synergies are still expected to total £25m. Our 
intention remains to invest cost synergies in excess of our stated target 
to strengthen	key	areas 	within	Pub	Company	such	as	our	people,	our	
systems and our brands.
“ The acquisition of Spirit 
in June 2015 was followed 
by significant progress 
integrating the best 
of both businesses.”
The new Pub 
Company support 
centre in Burton, 
Spirit’s former 
headquarters. Annual report 2016 GREENE KING PLC 15
STRATEGIC REPORT
Brand optimisation 
We acquired a strong portfolio of brands and formats with Spirit – one 
that would have been very difficult to replicate organically – and we continue 
to anticipate material benefits from optimising the combined brand portfolio, 
which will provide an exciting growth opportunity over the next few years. 
The combined business has 20 brands and formats and our plan is to reduce 
this to around ten. We are evolving the future brand portfolio and plan 
to focus	on	five	growth	retail	brands	and	formats:	Hungry	Horse,	Flaming	
Grill, Farmhouse Inns, Chef & Brewer and Greene King. We will also 
continue to develop our hotels and Metropolitan, our premium London 
pub format. 
In order to select the growth brands and formats to invest in, we looked 
at the consumer relevance and financial performance of each brand, the 
long-term opportunities to grow and expand and the proximity to other 
pubs within the combined group. 
There is potential profit upside from investment in over 300 of our existing 
pubs to reposition them into the growth brands over the next three years. 
Our priority in 2016/17 is to convert around 100 Fayre & Square pubs into 
the growth brands, of which the majority will be rebranded as Hungry Horse. 
We also plan to simplify our Local Pubs estate. We will reduce the number 
of formats and we will replace any existing retail branding with Greene King 
branding, considerably increasing the size of the Greene King branded 
estate and creating a significant pub retail brand in the UK eating and 
drinking out market. 
In the current year, we expect to spend around £40–50m on these conversions 
and anticipate generating EBITDA returns significantly above our cost of 
capital. We expect a £1m dilutive profit impact in the first year, including 
the impact of additional opening costs.
Best for our communities
Our pubs are at the heart of the community and have a unique opportunity 
to play an active role in the communities they serve. We understand the 
importance of operating a sustainable and responsible business and, as an 
industry leader, it is our duty to set an example by delivering a winning 
social responsibility programme.
During the year, we were proud to deliver the following initiatives:
 – in March we announced that our teams and customers raised £2m 
for our	charity	partner,	Macmillan 	Cancer	Support,	doubling	our	initial	
target. To mark the milestone, we were pleased to renew our partnership 
with Macmillan Cancer Support for a further three years;
 – a partnership with The Prince’s Trust to launch ten programmes across the 
country giving unemployed young people an opportunity to step into work;
 – for the third year running, we donated to the Pub is the Hub 
Community Services Fund in order to help to support rural pubs that 
want to diversify their services for the benefit of their communities; and
 – further reduction in water consumption with Spirit named as the 
Water Efficient Project of the Year at the 2015 Energy Awards.
Outlook 
Trading in the first eight weeks of the year has strengthened, helped by the 
European Football Championships and better weather in May, with Pub 
Company LFL sales up 2.8%. We are pleased with the initial performance of 
the brand optimisation programme and the exciting opportunity this presents 
to deliver long-term growth, and today we have outlined five strategic priorities 
to	deliver	our	vision	of	being	the	best	pub	company	in Britain.
The increasing uncertainty surrounding the UK’s future withdrawal from 
the European Union is likely to have a negative impact on the economy 
and on consumer confidence in the near term. However, with our track 
record of success in previous challenging conditions, our strong balance 
sheet and the limited direct impact on our business from Brexit, we remain 
confident that our strategy will drive further growth in earnings, returns 
and dividends and we look forward to delivering further financial and 
strategic progress in the current financial year.
Rooney Anand
Chief executive
28 June 2016
Dining at a 
Chef & Brewer pub.
