 16 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chief Executive’s report
In 2015 we delivered another excellent performance in the 
second year of implementation of our strategy to transform 
Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a modern, 
attractive food-on-the-go retailer. We have made significant 
progress across all areas of our strategic plan, with the result 
that our estate is stronger and our products, value and service 
are all improving the experience for customers. Trading 
conditions have continued to be favourable and we have grown 
sales whilst continuing to drive efficiencies in our operations, 
resulting in a second consecutive year of record profits.
Financial performance
Total sales grew to £835.7 million in 2015, up 5.2 per cent on a 
comparable 52 week basis and up 3.7 per cent when compared 
to the 53 week financial year in 2014. Company-managed shop 
like-for-like sales grew by 4.7 per cent and our franchised shops 
continued to perform well.
Operating profit (before exceptional items in 2014) grew by 
25.9 per cent to £73.1 million and pre-tax profit (before 
exceptional items in 2014) grew by 25.4 per cent to £73.0 
million. Our Finance Director, Richard Hutton, comments on 
financial performance in more detail in the financial review.
Market background: Growing food-on-the-go market
Market conditions continued to be favourable during 2015, with 
low inflation leading to further rises in real disposable 
consumer income. We saw strong growth throughout the year, 
although customer footfall in some shopping locations was 
subdued in the final quarter, resulting in slower growth in this 
period. The market for food-on-the-go remains highly 
competitive but our like-for-like sales performance 
demonstrates the strength of the Greggs brand, its quality and 
its differentiated offer. Greggs appeals to a broad customer 
base and we saw increased numbers of customer visits as well 
as growth in average transaction values in the year.
Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go
Our strategic plan, announced in 2013, focuses on growing like-
for-like sales by improving the customer proposition and the 
quality of our existing estate and making our operations 
simpler and more efficient. The plan has four key pillars: 
1. Great tasting fresh food.
2. A great shopping experience.
3. Simple and efficient operations.
4. Improvement through change.
These pillars are all supported by our approach to keeping our 
people, communities and values at the heart of our business.
 “Our estate is stronger and 
our products, value and 
service are all improving 
the customer experience.”
Roger Whiteside, Chief Executive
We delivered another excellent performance in 2015, 
making further progress with our plan to transform 
Greggs from a traditional bakery business into a 
modern, attractive food-on-the-go retailer. 17 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
The strategic plan represents a major programme of change 
over a period of up to five years and we are tracking progress 
against a number of key targets:
 – Driving like-for-like sales growth.
 – Achieving targeted returns on our transformational 
investment in shop refits.
 – Delivery of operational and supply chain efficiencies.
 – Achieving the planned benefits from our investment in 
processes and systems.
In 2015 we once again met our objectives in all of these areas:
 – A second consecutive year of strong like-for-like  
sales growth.
 – Refit investment returns exceeded our hurdle.
 – A second year of significant cost efficiencies.
 – Process and systems investment benefits ahead of plan.
Delivering our strategy
1.  Great tasting fresh food
Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we draw on our 
heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the 
food-on-the-go market. The Greggs product offer is 
differentiated by the way we freshly prepare food each day in 
our shops and by offering outstanding value for money for 
good quality, great tasting food-on-the-go. 
Improvements to product range 
We continue to make improvements to our product range in 
order to tailor it to the demands of the food-on-the-go 
customer and this has been successful in driving sales growth.
Demand for breakfast products continues to grow strongly  
as increasing numbers of customers look to grab breakfast  
as they go about their busy lives. In the early part of the year  
we successfully extended our breakfast menu to include 
free-range egg omelette in addition to breakfast baguettes. 
Coffee sales continue to grow strongly and we invested 
substantially in additional coffee machines to meet rising 
demand at this time of day.
Growth in sandwich sales continued its momentum in the 
second year following the category re-launch and we saw a 
further step-up in sales with the successful launch of our new 
‘heat-to-eat’ sandwich range in the autumn.
Our Balanced Choice range offers healthier choices with fewer 
than 400 calories and which are either amber or green on the 
FSA traffic light system. This has provided a strong platform for 
growth, with sales already accounting for 10 per cent of 
turnover. Success this year has come from range extensions 
including soup and salads, ‘heat-to-eat’ sandwiches and ‘no 
added sugar’ soft drinks.
With growing concern over obesity this is a strategically 
important area of development and we were particularly proud 
to be awarded the 2015 IGD ‘Health and Wellness Award’ in 
recognition of our work in improving the nutritional value of our 
products. The judges recognised our efforts to help our 
customers to make informed choices and our achievement in 
delivering a significant positive change in the shopping habits 
of customers.
Value
Greggs continues to lead the market in offering outstanding 
value for money and the attractiveness of our value deals has 
driven growth in both transaction numbers and average values. 
We maintained our £2 breakfast meal deal for the sixth year 
running and saw increased participation in our range of all-day 
meal deals offering any savoury or sweet product plus any hot 
drink for £2.
2016 product initiatives
We have another strong pipeline of new product developments 
planned for 2016. As an example we have just launched a new 
‘flat white’ coffee together with improved recipes for other hot 
drinks, and these are already proving popular. Balanced Choice 
development remains a priority with new soup options recently 
launched and a new freshly-prepared salad range planned for 
the summer.
Traditional bakery favourites in savoury and sweet products 
remain very important and we have an exciting line up of new 
developments and quality upgrades in our plans for this year. 
We also aim to build on our strong growth in sandwich sales, 
with further improvements this spring to maintain momentum 
in this part of our offer.
2.  A great shopping experience
As well as improvements to our products we have continued to 
make changes in our shop operations to meet the needs of our 
food-on-the-go customers better. Our investment in new 
systems to manage shop labour allocation has enabled us to 
improve service standards at the busiest times of the day and 
we have continued to extend opening hours as opportunities 
arise. Our shop teams have an outstanding reputation for fast 
and friendly service and we have invested significantly to build 
on this with independent customer experience visits rewarding 
teams who deliver great standards.
Our Balanced Choice range 
won recognition at the 2015 
IGD Awards.
We opened our 100th 
franchise shop increasing  
our presence in travel,  
leisure and work-centred 
catchments.
We acquired a new freehold 
distribution depot, close to 
our Enfield bakery, to 
support business growth.
Investment in new systems 
to manage shop labour 
allocation has enabled us to 
improve service standards at 
the busiest times of the day.
Highlights of the year 18 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Estate changes and refurbishments
The food-on-the-go market continues to grow, offering exciting 
opportunities to increase our estate to substantially more than 
2,000 shops, particularly in new locations away from high 
streets. 2015 saw us return to net shop growth, opening 122 
new shops (including 61 franchised units and our first in 
Northern Ireland) in the year and closing 74, resulting in 1,698 
shops trading at 2 January 2016. 90 per cent of our new shop 
locations were away from high streets in areas such as retail 
and industrial parks, motorway service stations and travel hubs. 
At the end of 2015 we had 105 franchised shops operating in 
travel and other convenience locations, with a particular focus 
on motorway services and petrol forecourts.
We completed 202 shop refurbishments during the year and 
converted a further 20 existing bakery cafés to our bakery 
food-on-the-go format. These investments are transformational 
and allow our shops to really focus on the food-on-the-go 
customer. By the end of 2015 82 per cent of our shops had 
been converted to the food-on-the-go format and in the year 
ahead we anticipate progressing with this refurbishment 
programme at a similar rate.
In 2016 we again expect to open 100-120 shops, including 
further development of our franchise partnerships, and to close 
50-60 shops. With our leasehold property structure we have 
the flexibility to relocate as customer trends move and our new 
shop opening programme is steadily shifting the balance of the 
estate, increasing our presence in travel, leisure and work-
centred catchments. In 2013 only 20 per cent of our estate was 
located in these location types and by the end of 2015 this 
proportion had risen to 27 per cent. This, coupled with our refit 
investment programme, is progressively improving the quality 
and performance of our shop estate.
Greggs Rewards loyalty scheme
We have continued to build membership of our digital 
customer reward programme, which is providing valuable 
insight into consumer behaviour and developing loyalty. This is 
a strategically important initiative as we pursue our long-term 
ambitions to develop digital engagement with our customers. 
In 2016 we will take an important next step by launching a new 
improved mobile app and more flexible payment options.
3. Simple and efficient operations 
Our drive to make our supply and support functions simpler 
and more efficient continued to make good progress in 2015. 
New benefits were achieved through better procurement, 
investment in manufacturing projects and the adoption of more 
efficient structures. 
In addition we were able to extract further gains from our 
investment in better processes and systems, particularly in 
workforce management where we continued to build upon the 
initial deployment and refine our approach. In total our actions 
to make the business simpler and more efficient delivered 
savings of £12 million in 2015, slightly ahead of the targets we 
had set. We expect a lower level of overall cost benefit in 2016 
as we focus on implementing core SAP, and should then 
achieve further cost and revenue benefits from 2017.
In September 2015, in order to provide additional distribution 
capacity for shop growth, we acquired a freehold distribution 
depot adjacent to our existing bakery in Enfield. The total 
investment, including conversion works, is likely to be around 
£13 million and the facility will be brought into use in the 
second half of 2016. This marks a first step towards a major new 
programme of investment in our supply chain which will have 
far-reaching implications and major benefits for our business. 
The proposals are described in more detail in our view on the 
outlook below.
4. Improvement through change
Investment in systems
We have made significant progress in the second year of our 
major investment programme to create the integrated systems 
platform necessary in order to compete more effectively as a 
centralised business in the food-on-the-go market. The initial 
phases, involving workforce management and supplier 
relationship management, have delivered benefits in excess  
of our initial expectations.
In 2015 we installed the infrastructure necessary to run SAP  
as our core Enterprise Resource Planning system and 
implemented the first module of this, going live with a new 
customer contact system in the fourth quarter. We are well 
advanced with plans to bring our existing finance processes 
into SAP in the first half of 2016. This will provide the platform 
on which we will build a suite of new capabilities across 
logistics, procurement, product lifecycle management and 
centralised ranging, forecasting and replenishment. We plan  
to trial improved processes around shop ordering in the latter 
part of the year.
We continue to be encouraged by the results of the 
programme, which is expected to make an annual net 
contribution of around £6.0 million once all the key functionality 
is in place, as well as making us more agile in terms of our 
ability to adopt further change in the future.
Keeping our people, communities and values  
at the heart of our business
The business continues to implement successfully a far-
reaching programme of change as we progress with our plan  
to position Greggs so it continues to succeed in the growing 
food-on-the-go market. I would like to take this opportunity  
to thank all of our teams in every part of our business for the 
role they played in delivering another record-breaking year  
of success.
As a business one of the ways in which we share the benefits  
of our success is through our profit sharing scheme, which 
distributes ten per cent of our profit to employees. I am 
delighted that our people will be sharing a record £8.1 million 
as a result of our strong performance in 2015.
Greggs in the community
We also aim to share our success with the local communities  
in which we operate. Around £600,000 was raised in our shops 
and our bakeries for the Greggs Foundation and this, combined 
with donations from the Company and the proceeds of carrier 
bag charges, enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute 
£1.8 million in support of a wide range of local community 
initiatives. These included the award-winning Greggs Breakfast 
Club programme, which provided over four million free 
wholesome breakfasts to children in 363 primary schools  
in 2015. 163 of these clubs are supported by our partner 
organisations, who share our ambition to improve the learning 
opportunities for children in disadvantaged areas.
Chief Executive’s report continued 19 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
Our customers were once again incredibly generous, helping 
Greggs to raise over £1.0 million for the North of England 
Children’s Cancer Research Fund, the BBC Children in Need 
appeal and the Disasters Emergency Committee’s Nepal 
earthquake appeal collectively in 2015.
Our ‘Fresh Start’ employability programme helped to promote 
the employability skills of over 600 people in 2015. We also 
created 91 new apprenticeships through our national 
apprentice development programme.
In 2015 we continued our support for the Business in the 
Community’s (BITC) ‘Business Connectors’ scheme and, 
through our employee volunteering scheme, we donated 500 
volunteer days to good causes.
Social responsibility 
In addition to our support for the local communities in which 
we trade, we have made significant progress in the other key 
areas of our social responsibility agenda. We were particularly 
pleased to have gained recognition for our work through 
independent accreditation, achieving a ‘three-star’ rating in the 
BITC CR index scheme and a ‘tier three’ assessment with the 
Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare.
One area of particular focus remained the donation of end-of-
day food to charitable organisations. In 2015 we improved our 
processes and were successful in more than doubling the 
amount of end-of-day food that we donated to good causes, 
benefitting those in need whilst reducing waste in the business.
Outlook for 2016
£100 million investment programme in manufacturing and 
distribution operations 
As part of our strategic plan to grow Greggs and transform  
it from a decentralised traditional bakery business into a 
centrally-run modern food-on-the-go brand we have been 
reviewing our manufacturing and distribution operations. 
Greggs is unusual in this sector in that it is vertically- 
integrated, owning and operating manufacturing facilities  
and its logistics network.
Following a lengthy and detailed review we have concluded 
that this integrated business model gives us competitive 
advantage, lying at the heart of our ability to offer outstanding 
quality and value. We intend to invest substantially to support 
growth and reshape the supply chain in order to compete more 
effectively in the food-on-the-go market. This requires an 
investment of around £100 million in a major programme over 
the next five years to create additional manufacturing centres 
of excellence and increase capacity to support shop expansion 
substantially beyond 2,000 outlets in the UK.
Greggs currently operates from 12 bakeries; unfortunately  
not all are suitable for long-term investment due to their 
location and size. As a result we are proposing to close three 
bakeries and use the disposal proceeds to contribute to the 
investment in our remaining bakeries over the course of the 
five-year programme.
 
The bakeries proposed for closure are Twickenham, Edinburgh 
and Sleaford, and we aim to agree a programme to transfer 
production and distribution operations from these sites to 
other bakeries in our network over the next year. Alongside 
these proposed changes in our bakeries we have further steps 
to take in the centralisation of support services which we 
believe will require some restructuring amongst our teams 
deployed in the regions. We will be entering into consultation 
shortly to work with trade unions and employee representatives 
of those affected to refine and develop these proposals. 
This may result in a total of 355 roles becoming redundant. 
These are difficult changes that we believe are needed to 
support the long-term growth of the business; however our 
immediate priority is to work to minimise the negative impact 
on our people, many of whom have worked in these roles for a 
significant number of years. Wherever possible we would look 
to offer alternative employment to affected employees but, 
due to the location of our sites, we anticipate that unfortunately 
many will leave the business.
Our recently-acquired distribution facility in London will enable 
us to invest in our Enfield bakery to create a manufacturing 
centre of excellence in the south east region and we now 
propose to invest in the extension of our Clydesmill bakery in 
Glasgow to create a centre of excellence in Scotland. These 
investments will mark the first phase of our five-year 
programme to transform our supply chain.
Trading
This year has started well and like-for-like sales in the eight 
weeks to 27 February 2016 have grown by 4.2 per cent, with 
total sales up 6.8 per cent. The consumer outlook remains 
positive with disposable incomes expected to grow further  
in 2016.
Costs were well controlled in 2015 and we will drive further 
efficiencies in the year ahead. Wage costs will increase above 
the rate of general inflation but food input costs are again likely 
to be deflationary for the first half of the year. In order to 
protect our reputation as an attractive employer we have 
agreed a wage increase of 5 per cent for our shop team 
members, lifting our hourly rate to £7.47 and retaining a 
premium over the statutory minimum.
Overall 2016 will be another year of significant change as we 
advance with our strategic plan and propose major investment 
in our supply chain. Alongside this we are confident of 
delivering a further year of underlying growth. The Board’s 
expectations for the year ahead remain unchanged.
Roger Whiteside
Chief Executive
1 March 2016
