 Ken Archer
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to present this Annual Report which records a very 
successful year for the Group, meeting management’s expectations 
for both strategy execution and financial performance.
Overview
Gresham continued its good progress in executing on key strategic 
objectives, and I am delighted with our 16% top-line growth with total 
revenues for the Group rising to £17 .2m. Importantly, the additional 
revenues are driven by high margin recurring and new Clareti sales, 
which has resulted in a strong increase in annualised recurring revenues 
(17% over 2015) and associated growth in underlying profitability 
(adjusted EBITDA up 41% over 2015).
As in 2015, the Group’s Clareti sales growth has been driven by our clients’ 
focus on internal risk management and responding to regulatory demands 
over their financial transaction flows. The volumes and complexity of these 
transactions give rise to increasing operating costs and risk exposure to 
market participants. Clareti offers clients a strategic platform to address 
these challenges. Financial transactions and their attendant interactions, 
both within client organisations and with their counterparties, are evident 
in all financial institutions, and Gresham has been successful in addressing 
these needs in several new market segments.
The Group has made good progress in expanding the adoption of Clareti 
solutions globally. I was particularly pleased with the CTC win that we 
announced with the Tier 1 US bank in December 2016. The US market 
has the potential for much higher growth, and the Board continues to 
support the ongoing investments in direct sales resources, in addition 
to forming strategic alliances to further expand distribution capacity.
The non-Clareti parts of the business once again provided a valuable 
contribution to the Group’s results, with the partner solutions and legacy 
software revenues that are in long-term decline showing resilience, 
and a solid performance from our Australian contracting business.
Ongoing investments
The Board continues to believe there is a very significant market 
opportunity for data integrity and control solutions, and that ongoing 
investment in key strategic areas is essential. Accordingly, the Company 
is building additional Clareti solutions to address specific industry segment 
problems, including a data management application and enhanced 
analytics capabilities. These are expected to generate revenue growth 
from both new and existing clients.
In addition, the Board is actively pursuing growth through 
carefully selected acquisitions and strategic partnerships. In 
October 2016, we announced the acquisition of C24 Technologies, 
a company that has developed a series of plug-in interfaces to 
connect to industry-standard financial messaging networks, thereby 
expanding the market opportunity for the Group’s Clareti solutions. 
The acquisition resulted in a doubling of Gresham’s customer base and 
further increases in recurring revenue. In addition, we have partnered 
with loan servicing specialists Mount Street Loan Solutions to build 
Clareti Loan Control (CLC), a cloud-based loan administration system. 
These strategic investments will enable us to grow our existing customer 
base and attract new customers from numerous market segments.
Board changes
In September 2016, Imogen Joss replaced Max Royde as Senior 
Independent Non-Executive Director. Imogen has worked within 
the financial sector for over 20 years and brings extensive experience 
in financial sales and marketing. Imogen’s executive career includes 
leadership roles in a range of high profile financial services organisations 
including S&P Global, Lloyds Bank, Reuters Plc and FTSE Group. 
I would like to thank Max for his significant contribution to the 
Board’s efforts over the past seven years.
Shareholder value
The Board recognises and appreciates shareholders’ long-standing 
and ongoing commitment to Gresham. Our share price has experienced 
a degree of volatility in the year which is common for the small cap 
market, but it is pleasing to note that the overall upward trend persists. 
Earnings per share increased to 4.67 pence on an adjusted and 
diluted basis (2015: 3.38 pence).
As reported last year, the Board is committed to commencing 
a progressive dividend as soon as circumstances are considered to 
be appropriate, having regard to the need for ongoing investments 
to support long-term growth. The Board’s firm intention remains 
to declare a maiden dividend in respect of the financial year 2017 .
The Gresham organisation and its employees are fully aligned to growing 
profitable revenue from Clareti sales globally. I remain confident that our 
investments in sales, marketing and client success provide the platform 
to deliver shareholder value from our ongoing investments.
In summary
With our continued investment in the Clareti portfolio and sales and 
marketing expansion, I anticipate further improvement in our market 
position as we respond to the growing demand for transparency 
and integrity over risk and financial data processing.
It has been a very successful year for the Group, which of course is made 
up of a great many team and individual successes. This is a testament 
to the hard work, expertise and professionalism of the Gresham team. 
I would like to thank the management and staff for their continued support 
and resolve to achieve success in our pursuit of market leadership in 
real-time transaction control and enterprise data integrity.
Ken Archer
Non-Executive Chairman
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 04
Strategic Report
Chairman’s statement
