 Ian Manocha
Dear shareholder
I am pleased to report a further year of very positive progress 
aligned with the strategic plan agreed with the Board. In 2016, we 
delivered solid Clareti software revenue growth driven by high quality 
new customer wins and excellent retention and growth from existing 
customers. Our legacy software portfolio remained stable, and our 
professional services business grew profitably adding value to the core 
licence relationships. We stepped up our investment in both business 
development and product development, and at the same time improved 
gross margins and earnings.
This was a confident performance from a highly motivated, talented 
and well-aligned team. Alongside the new sales wins our customer 
satisfaction, referenceability and retention was sustained at excellent 
levels. During the year, we also refreshed the Company name and brand, 
consolidated our R&D operations at our new Innovation Labs in Bristol, 
developed a 24/7 support infrastructure for cloud and global clients, 
and further strengthened the organisation and the senior team to deliver 
sustainable success.
Objectives and strategy 
Our goal is to be recognised as a leading global provider of enterprise 
financial technology and deliver sustained profitable growth for the 
Group and long-term value for shareholders.
The Group’s ongoing investment in sales and product development, 
combined with our deep domain experience in financial markets and 
strong customer-centric culture, means we are well positioned at a time 
when the pressure on market participants to be in complete control of 
their business has never been greater. We want to be the first company 
organisations turn to when they need to be in control of their data and 
their data-driven processes.
CTC, our flagship offering, is maturing from a niche challenger in 
the matching and reconciliations market into a mainstream offering 
with broad appeal across many financial services segments. We aim to 
establish the Clareti platform within the financial industry as a “de facto” 
standard technology for firms with complex data processing challenges 
who need to improve integrity and evidence control. Our award in 2016 
from Chartis, naming us as “category winner for data integrity and control 
in financial services” , confirmed the market potential and the completeness 
of our offering.
In 2017 , we will continue to invest in innovative new data integrity and 
control products such as Clareti Loan Control and Clareti Data Accelerator 
to broaden the commercial opportunity for our core platform. We will also 
develop chargeable upgrades to the platform, such as Clareti Adapters 
(based on C24 technology) and Clareti Analytics, to drive growth in 
our existing accounts. Our approach to new product development is to 
leverage our core technology assets to develop IP-rich applications that 
address repeatable industry problems that are not well served by 
established players.
Acquisitions
During 2016, the Group made its first acquisition since setting out 
on the Clareti-led strategy in 2010. The C24 Technologies business 
has now been fully integrated and we are pleased with the technology 
assets, the loyal client base, and the talent we have acquired. Since 
the acquisition, we have signed three new standalone Clareti 24 
Integration Objects clients, and have already enhanced the software 
to interface directly with our Clareti platform and thereby facilitate 
cross-selling into the CTC customer base as Clareti Adapters. The C24 
team have settled in well and are now working to bring Clareti Data 
Accelerator to market.
The experience gained from the acquisition has been valuable 
and during 2017 the Group will look for further accretive acquisitions 
that bring complementary technology, build our recurring licence 
revenues, and enable us to grow faster.
Outlook and opportunity
In 2017 , Clareti solutions are expected to deliver more than half of all 
Group revenues. We expect Clareti sales success to come largely from 
direct CTC sales in the UK, Europe and North America where there is 
strong demand for newer more agile technologies, with Clareti-as-a-Service 
providing incremental hosting revenues in an increasing proportion of 
cases. We are tracking US banking regulatory developments carefully and 
remain confident in our strategy to invest in the North American market. 
We should also see steady revenue growth from the existing Clareti 
base including our bank partners who white label our technology, 
and we will build our network of OEM partners and industry alliances 
to drive future sales growth at lower acquisition costs. Mount Street, 
our debt servicing partner, are now live on Clareti Loan Control (CLC) 
and growing their business, which in time will lead to an increasing 
financial contribution from our joint venture. 
We will continue to efficiently manage our legacy software revenues, 
including EDT, VME, and other OEM solutions, as they gradually run off 
in the medium to long term. One of our lower margin OEM offerings is 
being retired over the next two years and as a result we have planned 
for our total legacy software revenues to decline in 2017 . Conversely, 
our non-core, low margin services contracting business is expected 
to grow revenues during the year.
We are confident our strategy is on track and we have an ambitious 
plan to address a growing market. Furthermore, we are excited about 
the opportunity to create a global leader in enterprise data integrity 
and certain about our ability to deliver sustainable long-term profitable 
growth for our shareholders.
Thank you for your ongoing support.
Ian Manocha
Chief Executive
13 March 2017
Gresham Technologies plc
Annual Financial Report 2016 05
Strategic Report
CEO’s statement
