 10
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT
In 2016 we delivered another strong performance as we 
continued on our journey to transform Greggs from a 
traditional bakery business into a modern, attractive food-on-
the-go retailer. Our product offer is evolving to meet the 
changing needs of our customers and our shop estate and 
service levels have benefited from significant investment.  
We have made good progress in the modernisation of our 
systems and processes and have commenced the investment 
programme that will transform our supply chain capability and 
increase capacity to support our ambitions for shop growth.
Financial performance
Total sales grew to £894.2 million in 2016, up 7.0 per cent. Within  
this company-managed shop like-for-like sales grew by 4.2 per cent.
Underlying operating profit, excluding property profits and 
exceptional items, grew by 8.6 per cent to £78.1 million (2015: 
£71.9 million). Pre-tax profit (including exceptional items) grew  
by 2.9 per cent to £75.1 million.
Market background: Growing  
food-on-the-go market
The overall market for food-on-the-go continued to be favourable 
during 2016, with growing consumer disposable income supporting 
demand despite uncertainty in the economic outlook. Customer 
footfall remained challenging in a number of shopping locations, 
supporting our strategy of progressively reducing our dependence 
on general shopping activity through alternative shop location and 
enhancing our offer to meet customers’ needs at different times of 
the day. The market for food-on-the-go remains highly competitive 
but we saw like-for-like sales and transaction growth throughout 
2016, demonstrating the strength of the Greggs brand, its relevance 
and our quality, value and differentiated offer.
Strategic direction: Focus on food-on-the-go
Our strategic plan, first announced in 2013, set out to show that 
Greggs could be a winning brand in the highly competitive 
food-on-the-go market. Our business has been transformed in 
that time delivering an unbroken record of positive like-for-like 
sales and new levels of profit. It is now time to set a higher 
aspiration for the business, our purpose being to make good 
freshly prepared food accessible to everyone, with the aim  
of becoming the customers’ favourite for food-on-the-go.
Making 
progress with 
renewed focus 11
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
GREAT 
TASTING,
freshly prepared food
Customer health
For this next phase we have refreshed our plan to reinforce our 
commitment to putting the customer at the heart of our strategy 
– it has four key pillars: 
1. Great tasting freshly prepared food
2. Best customer experience
3. Competitive supply chain
4. First class support teams
These pillars are all supported by our long-standing approach to 
conducting our business in a responsible manner, and in doing so 
making a positive impact on people’s lives.
Delivering our strategy
1. Great tasting freshly prepared food
Greggs is a strong and trusted brand and we draw on our 
heritage in fresh bakery to compete successfully in the food-on-
the-go market. The Greggs product offer is differentiated by the 
way we freshly prepare food each day in our shops and by 
offering outstanding value for money for good quality, great-
tasting food-on-the-go. 
Making good freshly prepared food accessible to all income levels 
is embedded in our core purpose as a brand, with outstanding 
value meal deals setting us apart from the competition. We 
maintained the price of our breakfast meal deal for the seventh year 
running and saw increased participation in our range of all-day meal 
deals offering any savoury or sweet product plus any hot drink.
We have continued to make improvements to our product ranges 
that have helped drive positive like-for-like sales growth for 13 
consecutive quarters. 
Breakfast
This continues to be the fastest growing part of our trading day, 
linked predominantly with customers travelling, thereby lessening 
our dependence on general shopping footfall. The value of our 
breakfast meal deal remains market-leading and we have 
successfully built on this to offer greater menu choice, 
encouraging increased spend and visit frequency.
‘Everyday tastes good’ because…
We encourage healthier food-on-the-go choices. 
That’s why in 2014 we introduced a Balanced 
Choice range of products which now accounts  
for more than 10 per cent of sales.
It includes a wide selection of freshly prepared 
sandwiches, wraps, salads, yoghurts, delicious hot  
soups, porridge pots and freshly baked savouries. 
The introduction of our Balanced Choice range has led  
to the overall fat content of our sandwiches dropping  
by 12 per cent and salt by 16 per cent with no impact  
on flavour. 
It has also helped to change people’s perceptions of the 
brand. In the latest brand study from the Greggs Brand 
Tracker (April 2016), 38 per cent of customers indicated  
a belief that Greggs do sell healthy options – a rise of  
13 percentage points since 2010. 12
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
BEST
customer  
experience
Community
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
‘Everyday tastes good’ because…
We share our success with the people around us,
choosing to help charities that our customers and 
people care about. That’s why we continue to donate 
at least one per cent of our pre-tax profits to the 
Greggs Foundation and fundraise all year round  
for this great charity.
In 2016 fundraising in our shops and bakeries totalled 
£502,116, including £99,205 raised from the sale of  
our Jammy Heart Foundation Biscuit. 
 
The money raised by the carrier bag charge in our shops  
is also donated to the Greggs Foundation, who make 
sure that this new source of funds benefits grassroots 
environmental projects in the areas where the monies  
were collected. In 2016 we distributed over £715,000  
to 286 different organisations to improve their  
environment #greenerwithgreggs.
 
In 2017 the Greggs Foundation celebrates its  
30th birthday. Since it was founded, it has given  
over £23 million to support the local communities  
that we serve.
Hot drinks
Our reputation for great tasting coffee continues  
to grow both alongside our breakfast offer and, 
increasingly, as an accompaniment to food at any  
time of the day. ‘Any hot drink’ features across our 
meal deal offers and is proving increasingly popular. 
Significant investment in additional coffee machines is 
driving speed of service and, as our reputation in this 
category builds, we are successfully extending choice 
in our coffee options.
Balanced Choice
Demand for healthier choices in food-on-the-go 
continues to grow and our Balanced Choice range, 
offering fewer than 400 calories and good nutritionals, 
has been growing to match. Sales last year exceeded 
£100 million showing how our reach as a brand can 
have real impact in encouraging people to make 
healthier food-on-the-go choices. In the summer we 
built on our early success in sandwiches and ‘no 
added sugar’ drinks by launching a range of freshly 
prepared salads followed by a new range of savoury 
bakes in the autumn. Alongside these developments 
we extended the availability of fresh fruit, freshly 
prepared yoghurts, fruit and nut snacks and our first 
gluten-free products. 13
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Hot food
This is another area of growing customer demand where we are 
investing in our capability to offer choice and speed of service. 
Hot sandwiches have proved particularly popular and we have 
invested in additional ovens in response to demand. This opens 
up opportunities for menu development which last year included 
burritos. Hot soup has been another source of growth lending 
itself well to full-flavoured Balanced Choice development.
Good food
Customers increasingly care where their food comes from. Because 
we make the majority of the food we sell ourselves, we are well 
placed to reassure customers that we deliver food they can trust.  
As a large-scale food manufacturer buying base ingredients, we are 
one step closer to the source than many of our competitors who  
buy finished products. We are investing more in telling our story  
to customers, extending our association with Fairtrade, promoting 
our Good Egg award, committing to sustainable tuna fishing and 
gaining accreditation in animal welfare.
Alongside this we are setting out to lead the food-on-the-go 
sector in eliminating or reducing unnecessary ingredients 
including salt, fat and sugar. In addition, we want our customers 
to be able to make informed choices and are the only major 
food-on-the-go brand providing full traffic light nutritional 
information on all products via our website.
Looking ahead
We have a strong pipeline of new product developments planned 
for 2017, offering more choice in growth areas while making sure 
that we continue to deliver a great customer experience with our 
traditional best-selling favourites.
2.  Best customer experience
Investing in service
Great products alone will not succeed in food-on-the-go without 
great customer service. Our busy customers demand convenience 
with fast and friendly service and we continue to invest to 
improve in these areas.
Extended opening hours, particularly early in the morning and  
on Sundays, are meeting increased demand as our popularity for 
food-on-the-go grows. Investment in coffee machines, hot food 
ovens and new systems to free up more staff time are all 
contributing to our speed of service. Working in a Greggs shop can 
be very demanding so we rely on great people to deliver friendly 
service under pressure. Making Greggs a great place to work is key 
to a great customer experience and we are investing in training and 
systems to help us release time for customer-facing activities.
Alongside our internal measures used to reward teams who 
deliver great standards we were pleased to be ranked best in 
sector and 6th overall in the Institute of Customer Service’s 
January 2017 Customer Satisfaction Index.
Greggs Rewards 
The latest release of our award-winning mobile customer loyalty 
scheme allowing fully flexible payment has created a step change in 
customer participation. Customer data capture is now at a level that 
allows us to analyse behaviour and develop targeted marketing 
campaigns. We have recently appointed our first Customer Director 
with experience in digital multi-channel marketing who will lead 
development of our capabilities in this area.
Greggs Delivered 
Food-on-the-go delivery is a growing market channel offering 
growth potential for Greggs by targeting the workplace sector.  
A pilot lunchtime delivery service targeted at offices has been 
launched in trial locations from which we intend to learn and 
grow. Whilst we do not see an opportunity in home delivery,  
we do believe that a smartphone-based order and collect service 
for customers offers future opportunity.
COMPANY-MANAGED SHOP  
LIKE-FOR-LIKE SALES GROWTH
4.2% 14
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED
Looking ahead 
Further investment this year in new systems and process 
improvement will deliver additional gains, making shop 
operations simpler and supporting improved service levels.
Rapid growth in Greggs Rewards recruitment will see this  
become an increasingly important source of customer insight  
and marketing opportunities.
Building experience with customer delivery will enable us to 
develop this channel with the initial aim of converting our existing 
lunchtime platter business to a digital platform.
Estate changes and refurbishments
We continue to see opportunities to increase our estate to 
substantially more than 2,000 shops and in 2016 we opened 145 
new shops (including 56 franchised units) and closed 79, growing 
the estate to 1,764 shops trading as at 31 December 2016. At the 
end of 2016 we had 157 franchised shops operating in travel and 
other convenience locations, with a particular focus on motorway 
services and petrol forecourts. We expanded our presence in 
Northern Ireland in the year, opening seven company-managed 
shops and two franchised units, bringing our total shop numbers 
there to 10 at the end of 2016.
We completed 208 shop refurbishments during the year and in 
total 92 per cent of our shop estate now operates in a food-on-
the-go format. The results of our refurbishment programme 
continue to be strong, both in terms of return on investment and 
the repositioning of the Greggs brand as a contemporary place  
to buy and eat food-on-the-go. In the year ahead we plan to 
refurbish another 200 shops, completing the conversion of our 
legacy bakery shops and starting to refresh older food-on-the-go 
shops to the latest look and facilities.
In 2017 we expect to open 140-150 shops, including further 
development of our franchise partnerships, and to close 40-50 
shops. We will continue to relocate shops to rebalance our estate, 
increasing our presence in travel, leisure and work-centred 
catchments. In 2013 only 20 per cent of our estate was located  
in these location types and by the end of 2016 this proportion 
had risen to 30 per cent.
3. Competitive supply chain 
In March 2016 we announced a major £100 million programme  
of investment to support growth in shop numbers and reshape 
our supply chain in order to compete more effectively in the 
food-on-the-go market. The first phase of this programme 
involves the closure of three bakeries before going on to invest  
in our remaining supply sites to create centres of excellence in 
manufacturing and distribution.
In 2016 we successfully opened our new distribution centre in 
Enfield and closed both our Twickenham and Sleaford bakeries. 
Good progress was also made with the extension of our bakery  
in Glasgow, enabling us to plan for the closure of our Edinburgh 
bakery in the second quarter of 2017.
Alongside this work we have undertaken detailed planning for the 
subsequent investment phase across our remaining bakery sites. 
In January 2017 we communicated our proposals to staff at each 
of our sites, including the planned impact of consolidating our 
manufacturing operations. Overall our expansion plans will create 
thousands of new roles in retail and distribution operations, but 
will result in fewer roles in manufacturing. We have therefore 
entered into consultation with trade unions and employee 
representatives over the details of these proposals.
Our investment programme will create increased capacity  
and efficiency in shop distribution to support substantial shop 
growth alongside improved quality and efficiency in bakery 
manufacturing by centralising production. This is a complicated 
investment phase, transforming the use of space and equipment 
across our bakery network and is expected to take approximately  
two years to implement.
Strategic decisions of this magnitude impacting jobs are always 
difficult and I am grateful for the contribution and professionalism 
of our teams who have been making these changes whilst 
maintaining service standards to our shops.
Once implemented this new supply chain platform will substantially 
improve product quality, our competitiveness and, alongside system 
investment, will complete our transformation from traditional bakery 
to food-on-the-go. This is our largest ever investment in our supply 
chain, reaffirming our strategic commitment to the competitive 
advantage offered through vertical integration and delivering an 
attractive return on investment.
COST SAVINGS
£7.1m
PROCESSES AND SYSTEMS CHANGE
3
elements successfully 
delivered 15
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Environment
4. First class support teams
We have made further significant progress in the third year of  
our major process and systems investment programme. 
Last year we successfully deployed SAP Finance as the core 
platform for integrated system development, and went on to pilot 
central forecasting and replenishment in trial shops in the second 
half of the year. The roll out of central forecasting and replenishment 
will replace shop-based ordering in 2017 and will be our largest 
ever new system roll out.
Our business change programme team have now moved on to plan 
for the next stage of system development, centralising logistics and 
manufacturing to replace our current devolved local bakery 
solutions. We are aiming to launch pilots for both logistics and 
manufacturing by the end of 2017 with roll out to other sites in 
2018. In addition to this core activity our teams have successfully 
deployed supporting SAP modules in procurement, product 
lifecycle management and human resource management, which 
together are transforming our working practices and effectiveness.
Having a positive impact on people’s lives
Greggs has a long-standing tradition and reputation as a socially 
responsible business and as such we want our actions to have a 
positive impact on people’s lives. This ambition covers a broad 
range of stakeholders and is focused on five areas:
 – Customer health – We encourage healthier  
food-on-the-go choices.
 – Responsible sourcing – We care about where  
our ingredients come from.
 – Community – We share our success with the people  
around us.
 – Environment – We aim to use energy efficiently  
and minimise waste.
 – People – We are committed to creating a great place to work.
These ambitions are championed separately but embedded in 
the core strategic pillars of our business plan. In 2016 we made 
further improvements in all areas and were pleased to achieve  
an increase to a ‘four star’ rating in the Business In The 
Community CR index.
‘Everyday tastes good’ because…
We use energy efficiently and minimise waste. 
That’s why Greggs Environmental Management 
System has been certificated to the ISO 1400: 
2015 standard.
This certification means that we have the systems 
and processes in place to support our commitment 
to finding ways to reduce our impact on the environment, 
which is a key part of our social responsibility strategy.
Our external auditors commented that “Greggs should 
be really proud of what they have achieved. It’s quite 
unusual for companies in their position to go for 
certification across their entire Company just because 
they believe ‘it is the right thing to do’ – a huge 
achievement and one which should not be 
under-estimated.” 16
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
People
‘Everyday tastes good’ because…
We are committed to creating a great place to 
work. That’s why we are strong advocates of 
equality, diversity and inclusion.
We believe gender equality should be treated like any 
other business priority, with a clear plan and an objective 
in place. The completion of the National Equality 
Standard sits as an objective on the front page of our 
business plan and a three-year strategy to achieve this 
is in place. 
From a gender equality point of view the plan involves 
supercharging the brilliant talent Greggs already has in 
the business through the delivery of our ‘Female Career 
Development Programme’ and we are proud of the 
fact that:
 – Almost half of our management population is female. 
 – One of the four most senior retail managers is female.
 – Of the eight Board posts, three are held by women. 
In 2016 Roger Whiteside demonstrated Greggs 
commitment to the gender equality agenda by  
joining the Women’s Business Council.
Customer health
Customers are increasingly aware of our Balanced Choice range 
and in 2016 we introduced traffic light labelling on our website 
and app. The Institute of Grocery Distribution has recognised our 
Balanced Choice range as having a positive impact on the health 
and wellness of customers and we will continue to extend the 
range of products that meet this need. We recently launched a 
‘healthier shop’ format at New Cross Hospital in Wolverhampton, 
designed to meet NHS England, PHE and DEFRA guidelines.
Responsible sourcing
All the tea, coffee, hot chocolate, sugar sachets, orange juice, apple 
juice and bananas we sell are certified Fairtrade. We source our 
prawns and tuna from sustainable sources and have recently moved 
up to ‘tier two’ in the Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare. 
All of our manufacturing sites have achieved top marks on v7 of the 
British Retail Consortium’s global standard for food safety.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REPORT CONTINUED 17
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Community
We continue to share our success with the local communities in 
which we operate. In 2016 this included doubling the amount of 
end-of-day food that we donated to good causes and continuing 
to support the work of the Greggs Foundation. Staff and 
customers raised £613,000 for the Foundation in 2016 and this, 
combined with donations from the Company and the proceeds of 
carrier bag charges, enabled the Greggs Foundation to distribute 
£2.8 million to support a wide range of initiatives that improve 
the quality of life in our local communities. These included the 
award-winning Greggs Breakfast Club programme which, with 
support from 72 partner organisations, now provides five million 
free wholesome breakfasts each year to children in more than  
400 primary schools.
Environment
We hold the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of our work on 
carbon efficiencies and our Environmental Management System 
was certificated to ISO 14001 standard in 2016. We continue to 
trial technologies that could help to reduce our carbon footprint 
even further in the years ahead.
People
We pay all of our people more than the National Living Wage, 
including those under the age of 25. We share 10 per cent of our 
profits with employees and our people will be sharing a record 
£8.8 million as a result of our strong performance in 2016.
Our Employee Opinion Survey engagement score has increased 
by five percentage points over the last two years; 80 per cent of 
our people say they feel committed to Greggs and to helping us 
achieve our goals. However, we are not complacent and in the 
year ahead will be working towards achieving the National 
Equality Standard as part of our commitment to make Greggs  
an even better place to work.
Further details of all of our actions in these areas are described 
elsewhere in this annual report.
Outlook for 2017
The year has started in line with our expectations, with company-
managed shop like-for-like sales in the eight weeks to 25 February 
2017 up by 2.0 per cent, and total sales up 5.8 per cent. As 
expected, the year to date position has been impacted by the 
timing of the New Year public holiday, which fell outside of the 
comparative period in 2016. Excluding the effect of this, 
company-managed shop like-for-like sales have grown by 2.9  
per cent in weeks two to eight of the current year.
The UK consumer outlook is more challenging than we have  
seen in recent years, with industry-wide pressures emerging in 
commodities as well as labour costs. As previously stated we 
expect this to have a modest impact on margins in the short term.
2017 will be another busy year of change as we continue to 
progress our investment in better systems and the transformation 
and development of our supply chain. Over the medium term we 
are confident of making further progress as we implement our 
plan to grow Greggs as a contemporary food-on-the-go brand.
Roger Whiteside
Chief Executive
28 February 2017
We have made good progress in  
the modernisation of our systems 
and processes and have commenced 
the investment programme that will 
transform our supply chain capability 
and increase capacity to support  
our ambitions for shop growth.
