 8
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Greggs performed strongly in 2016, benefiting from the 
investments that we have made in recent years and the 
continued implementation of changes in line with our strategic 
plan. The food-on-the-go market continues to grow and is 
highly competitive and fast-moving. This requires us to 
constantly evolve and develop our offer to customers. 
Our clear plan and record of delivery is bringing sustainable 
long-term growth for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Overview
In 2016 Greggs demonstrated once again its ability to manage  
a major change agenda whilst delivering a strong trading and 
financial performance. The Greggs brand is increasingly relevant 
to consumers in the food-on-the-go market as a result of our 
investments in the shop estate and the quality of our food and 
drink offer. We have made notable progress in the overhaul of  
our processes and systems and this will continue in the year 
ahead, alongside significant investment to transform our internal 
supply chain to support further growth in shop numbers and 
deliver a more efficient business.
The Chief Executive’s report provides greater detail on 
performance in 2016 and progress against our strategic plan.
Our people and values
Consumers have many options in the food-on-the-go market,  
and we have to ensure that all aspects of our business support 
our purpose and strategy. This has required us to make some 
difficult decisions, particularly regarding the organisation of our 
manufacturing and logistics operations, which the Board has 
considered carefully and which are outlined in this report. In all  
its discussions the Board has been clear to ensure that any 
changes are implemented with due regard to our values: being 
open, honest and treating people with consideration and respect.
Investing in  
our future
I would like to thank everyone  
who has worked for Greggs during  
the past year and contributed to 
such a strong performance on  
so many levels. 9
Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
These values are also reflected in our approach to conducting 
business responsibly. We have made further improvements to  
our already strong reputation in areas such as environmental 
management, animal welfare and support for the communities 
where we trade. Acting responsibly and conducting business in  
a sustainable manner by looking after the interests of all 
stakeholders is ultimately in the best interests of shareholders.
I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs during 
the past year and contributed to such a strong performance on  
so many levels. Their commitment to delivering outstanding 
service and value to our customers every day was clearly reflected 
in customer satisfaction and sales in 2016.
The Board
The composition of the Board was unchanged in 2016. Much of  
our time has been spent overseeing the major programmes of 
change that support the Company’s strategic plan, particularly the 
significant investment under way to grow our internal supply chain. 
We also continued to focus on the development of our people and 
our understanding of the needs of customers.
Directors continue to be encouraged to get out into the business, 
sample our products and talk with colleagues and customers. In 
doing so we ensure that Non-Executive Directors’ contributions  
to Board discussions are well informed, supporting open and 
constructive dialogue with the management team. 
The Board oversees the allocation of resources for the business 
and this includes the level of investment in its operations, taking 
account of shareholder returns as well as a fair reward to staff, 
responsible funding of pension obligations and equitable 
treatment of suppliers. The business is highly cash-generative  
and continues to operate without external financial debt,  
a position considered appropriate given the lease obligations 
inherent in our business model.
Further details of the Board’s work can be found in the Governance 
and committee sections of the annual report.
Passion drives us forward and  
we are able to deliver success by
loving what we do
Dividend
Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend that 
is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus capital 
being returned to shareholders. Our Finance Director, Richard 
Hutton, outlines the expected application of the distribution 
policy in more detail in the financial review.
In line with its progressive dividend policy the Board intends to 
recommend at the Annual General Meeting a final dividend of 
21.5 pence per share (2015: 21.2 pence), giving a total ordinary 
dividend for the year of 31.0 pence (2015: 28.6 pence), an 
increase of 8.4 per cent.
Looking ahead
The Board recognises the need to engage with, and balance 
the interests of, many different stakeholders including customers, 
employees, pensioners, suppliers and shareholders. There is an 
overriding priority to maintain and enhance the competitiveness 
of the business in order to equip Greggs for long-term 
sustained success.
In the short term we face a period of greater economic 
uncertainty and increased pressure from cost inflation. We have 
highlighted the changes necessary to support the ongoing 
strategic realignment of the business, including the major 
investment programme under way to grow our supply chain.  
This will involve some difficult changes for some of our 
colleagues, as detailed in the Chief Executive’s report, but is 
essential to support the long-term competitiveness of 
the business.
Greggs is a strong business with a great team. I am confident that 
we can build on our recent success and make further progress in 
the year ahead.
Ian Durant 
Chairman
28 February 2017
Find out what goes on behind the scenes in 24 hours on page 5-7
