 04 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Chairman’s statement
In 2015 Greggs delivered an excellent operational and financial 
performance whilst also making good progress against its 
longer-term strategic plan. Trading conditions have continued 
to be supportive but the food-on-the-go market remains 
competitive and fast-moving, and so must Greggs. The 
excellent outcome in 2015 gives us confidence as we go into 
what we expect to be another busy year.
Overview
In 2015, Greggs made further progress in executing the 
strategic plan outlined in 2013, which focused the business on 
the growing food-on-the-go market. This is bringing about 
significant changes to the quality and relevance of our product 
offer as well as the positioning and condition of the Greggs 
shop estate. We are also two years into a significant change 
programme, with ongoing investment in processes and systems 
delivering benefits in terms of efficiency and greater agility. 
The result has been another excellent financial performance, 
founded on strong like-for-like sales growth and leveraging the 
vertical integration of the Greggs business model.
The Chief Executive’s report provides greater detail on 
performance in 2015, progress against our strategic plan and 
key targets.
Our people and values
As a Board, we believe that the Greggs culture and heritage is 
a key component of how the brand is perceived and cherished 
by our customers. The ongoing success of our business 
requires constant embracing of change but the way in which we 
implement changes is very much informed by our values and 
the long-term mind-set that has served the business so well.
I would like to thank everyone who has worked for Greggs 
during the past year and contributed to its success. We are 
proud of our achievements and have delivered an excellent 
financial performance whilst ensuring that Greggs remains an 
engaging place to work and a positive contributor to the 
communities in which we trade.
 
 “The excellent outcome in 
2015 gives us confidence as 
we go into what we expect 
to be another busy year.”
Ian Durant, Chairman
In 2015 Greggs delivered an 
exceptional operational and financial 
performance, whilst also making 
good progress against its longer-
term strategic plan. 05 Greggs plc Annual Report and Accounts 2015
Directors’ Report Accounts Strategic Report
The Board
There were no changes in the composition of the Board in 
2015, following a number of appointments in 2014. We 
completed our first independent Board evaluation in the year; 
the results were reassuring in terms of the effectiveness of the 
Board and have given us a number of actions for further 
improvement in the year ahead.
Board members are encouraged to spend time in the business, 
exploring its operations and talking with staff (for my part this 
included a night shift in South Wales) in order to inform our 
discussions about the business. Our aspiration is to maintain  
an open and constructive dialogue with a management team 
which values the contributions of the Non-Executive Directors. 
Our discussions are often lively and, whilst mutually respectful, 
a diversity of views is considered a strength.
The Board’s priorities in the past year have included oversight 
of the programme of process and systems change, people 
development and increasing our understanding of customer 
needs. In addition, we have spent a significant amount of time 
considering plans to invest in the Company’s internal supply 
chain, including the acquisition of an additional distribution 
facility in north London and the other proposals outlined in  
the Chief Executive’s report.
Further details of the Board’s work can be found in the 
Governance and Committee sections of this annual report.
Dividend policy and capital structure
Our progressive dividend policy targets an ordinary dividend 
that is two times covered by earnings, with any further surplus 
capital being returned by way of special dividends. 
In line with its progressive dividend policy the Board intends  
to recommend at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) a final 
dividend of 21.2p per share (2014: 16.0p), giving a total 
ordinary dividend for the year of 28.6p (2014: 22.0p), an 
increase of 30.0 per cent.
During 2015 the Board carried out a review of the appropriate 
capital structure of the Group, including consultation with 
some shareholders on different options for returning surplus 
capital. Given the leasehold nature of the shop portfolio the 
Board concluded that it is not currently appropriate to take on 
structural debt and intends to maintain a net cash position.
In 2015 the Group paid its first special dividend of 20.0p per 
share (a total of £20.2 million), in addition to ordinary dividends 
paid in the year totalling 23.4p per share. Our Finance Director, 
Richard Hutton, outlines the expected application of the 
distribution policy in more detail in the financial review.
Looking ahead
We have made great progress in executing the strategic 
realignment of the business and, in the year ahead, will 
continue to make changes to improve further in all areas.  
This is expected to include major investment and change in  
our supply chain, which will involve some proposed bakery 
closures, as detailed in the Chief Executive’s report. We realise 
that this will be difficult for the people impacted but is essential 
to support growth and the long-term competitiveness of  
the business.
High quality delivery of our change programme and 
operational plans has resulted in a strong business 
performance over the last two years. I am confident that  
we can make further progress in the year ahead.
Ian Durant
Chairman
1 March 2016
