 8 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
Clients are more likely to charter our 
cost-effective, fit-for-purpose and flexible 
fleet independent of oil price sentiment, 
which is not typically the case elsewhere in 
the wider offshore support vessel sector. 
While we anticipate some of the challenges 
faced in 2016 will carry forward into the 
near-term, I am confident that the steps  
we have taken to help us navigate the 
industry downturn, including the delivery  
of significant reductions in our cost base, a 
competitive business development strategy, 
together with the strategic expansion of our 
fleet, will allow us to deliver earnings growth 
for GMS in due course.
Group financial performance 
Our priority in 2016 was on maximising 
vessel utilisation in challenging market 
conditions. It was a creditable performance 
by the management team that resulted in 
2016 revenue at US$ 179.4 million being 
restricted to a less than 20% reduction 
compared to the previous year. Adjusted 
EBITDA for the year was US$ 106.8 million 
(US$ 138.5 million in 2015) reflecting the 
strong operating cash flow generation  
of the business and we are able to report  
an adjusted EBITDA margin of 60% for 2016 
(63% in 2015). Adjusted net profit after 
taxation for the year was US$ 50.7 million 
(US$ 84.9 million in 2015). 
As a reflection of our confidence in the 
stability of the business, the proposed final 
dividend for the year is recommended to be 
1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share subject to 
shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
16 May 2017 and this will be paid on 19 May 
2017, giving a total dividend for the year of 
1.61 pence (2.04 cents). 
Fleet utilisation and order book
GMS achieved a 70% utilisation rate for our 
SESV fleet in 2016 (98% in 2015), with 100% 
technical and operational uptime for our 
contracted vessels. We expected our fleet 
utilisation and charter rates for the year to 
be affected by the low oil price environment, 
reflecting some clients’ focus on cost 
savings rather than production. This level  
of utilisation is still healthy compared to  
that experienced in both the wider offshore 
support vessel and drilling rig sectors. We 
currently expect utilisation to increase 
during the course of 2017, although it will  
be partially affected for a period as we 
transition into new contracts. 
In the first half of 2016 we saw significantly 
lower levels of tender activity as our clients 
reduced their expenditure plans in response 
to market uncertainties. We have 
subsequently seen a gradual increase in 
tender opportunities and since our interim 
results have secured six new contracts with 
a total charter period in excess of six years 
including extension options. Encouragingly, 
two of these awards are for long-term 
charters, as short-term contract opportunities 
have been more customary in the current 
environment. These new charters comprise 
a three-year contract (including options)  
for one of our Mid-Size Class vessels in the 
MENA region, and an 18-month contract 
(including options) for one of our Large Class 
vessels in Europe. 
Our focus remains on maximising our vessel 
utilisation. While this has necessitated the 
negotiation of lower charter rates on certain 
contracts, we expect to see an improvement 
in pricing in the future as the market 
tightens. The secured backlog as at 1 March 
2017 is US$ 209.2 million (comprising firm 
and extension options) and is expected to 
increase towards the end of 2017 as the 
anticipated further improvement in 
utilisation is reflected in our order book. 
Operations
Health, safety and the environment continue 
to be our top priority and we delivered a 
strong safety performance in 2016. The total 
number of man hours worked was 6.0 million 
in 2016 (7.7 million man hours in 2015). There 
was an improvement in our lost time injury 
rate (LTI) with one LTI being sustained 
during the year compared to two in 2015;  
we will continue to strive for our target of 
zero LTIs. The total recordable injury rate 
was 0.20 in 2016 (0.18 in 2015). 
The SESV new build programme to expand 
the fleet by six vessels was completed within 
budget and on schedule at the end of 2016. 
The Mid-Size Class GMS Sharqi was delivered 
in Q1 2016. The Large Class GMS Evolution 
was completed in Q4 2016, with further work 
on the installation and testing of a cantilever 
system on the vessel expected to continue 
into Q2 2017. The strategic decision to expand 
the fleet has significantly increased the scope 
of our service offering, with the investment in 
the new Large Class and Mid-Size Class SESVs 
validated by the current higher utilisation of 
these vessels for operations that were less 
suited to our smaller class assets. Future 
development of the fleet is likely to focus on 
the extension of our service offering, with the 
installation of additional cantilever systems on 
all our Large Class vessels in time as more 
clients see the value this new capability brings 
to their businesses. 
The Group has delivered a solid set of 
2016 results in line with expectations  
for the business against the  
backdrop of a sustained low oil  
price environment. This performance 
continues to show our resilience in  
the brownfield sector when there  
are lower customer activity levels. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 9 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
The Group maintains a very high focus  
on asset integrity and marine assurance  
and our off-hire vessels are being kept  
in readiness for swift deployment as the 
market starts to recover and as we secure 
further charters. 
Expansion of services
GMS has been at the forefront of 
technological innovation in its industry for 
many years. As both a builder and operator, 
we have expanded and enhanced our fleet 
for the future, ensuring our vessels can 
meet the technical and operational 
specifications we have identified as being 
especially useful for our anticipated clients’ 
requirements. This has included the 
introduction of our Large Class and Mid-Size 
SESVs more recently. While our Small Class 
fleet is of value for many of our clients’ 
operations in the Gulf, the addition of our 
newer vessels has helped us to broaden  
our service offering. 
During 2016 we also took significant steps  
to further expand our well services 
capability through our pioneering cantilever 
system. We designed and developed the 
system, in partnership with Dwellop A.S., 
with a well workover unit and top drive for 
our latest new build vessel GMS Evolution. 
This system, which is expected to be ready  
for operations in Q2 2017 following the 
completion of sea trials, will allow us to 
provide a greater range of services from  
the vessel and to compete for well workover 
activity that was previously only able to be 
carried out from more expensive and less 
efficient non-propelled jackup drilling rigs. 
The faster transit and jacking speed of our 
self-propelled SESV allows us to deploy our 
vessel in less than a day, versus the three 
days or more required for a conventional 
drilling rig. We estimate that this advantage, 
combined with our cantilever capability and 
other operational efficiencies, will allow us to 
complete a typical well workover project in 
approximately 25% less time than the same 
activity performed by a drilling rig. This 
translates into significant cost savings  
for our client, even before any further 
economies that may be achieved from 
charter rates lower than alternatives such 
as drilling rigs, as well as the additional cost 
of hiring the necessary support vessels  
that these require. GMS will be the first  
to introduce this capability on an SESV  
and we have been very encouraged  
by the good level of interest from our 
existing and prospective clients in the  
cantilever capability. 
We will continue to innovate and seek  
to differentiate our offering from our 
competitors. Our intention over the 
medium-term would be to offer our clients  
a more extensive and integrated package  
of well intervention services across our 
SESV fleet by bringing in-house more of  
the ancillary specialist services we currently 
sub-contract. This should help us to be  
an even more cost-effective solution for  
our clients.  10 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Strategic Report
Finance 
The Group’s decisive actions on cost-saving 
initiatives and the prioritisation of utilisation 
have helped to mitigate the impact on our 
business of the challenging market 
conditions. I am pleased to report that we 
expect to deliver the previously announced 
annualised cost-savings; further details can 
be found in the Financial Review.
During the year we conducted a full 
impairment review of our fixed assets. No 
impairments are required of our core SESV 
fleet, reflecting the low original self-
construction cost of the vessels and the 
outlook for the Group’s markets over the 
vessel life of the assets. Our non-core assets 
(two anchor tug supply vessels and an 
accommodation barge) were impaired during 
the year. A leased Small Class vessel, on 
which we hold an option to purchase but 
which we are unlikely to exercise given the 
low oil price environment, has also been 
impaired. Accordingly, a total impairment 
charge of US$ 21.3 million has been recorded 
in the income statement.
Our people 
I would like to thank our highly skilled and 
dedicated workforce for their contribution  
to GMS during a challenging period. As has 
been the case with other companies in our 
industry, it was necessary to lower our  
costs during the year and this included a 
reduction in our headcount and a decrease 
in salaries for all personnel. The support  
and continued commitment of all our staff  
is very much appreciated. 
Market commentary 
Middle East
During 2016 the effects of the prolonged low 
oil price environment shifted focus amongst 
some of our key clients in the Middle East 
away from increasing production to reducing 
operating costs. The extent to which this 
affected GMS varied. In some instances, 
extension options were not exercised or 
contracts were terminated early. In other 
cases, it was necessary to renegotiate 
contracts at lower day rates in order to 
maintain the term of the contract. We have 
been seeing an increase in the number of 
tender opportunities from the second half  
of 2016 onwards and our success in winning 
a significant amount of the available work 
tendered is testament to the quality of our 
fleet and operational delivery. As our clients’ 
again begin to focus on production targets, 
we anticipate that most, if not all, of the work 
lost due to cancellations or the non-renewal 
of contracts in 2016 will be re-tendered in 
2017 and we remain well-positioned to 
secure these opportunities as they come  
to the market. 
We are actively advising our clients on  
the cost advantages that our SESV well 
intervention cantilever and top drive  
system will deliver. The system presents  
a number of opportunities for GMS  
to perform additional well intervention 
operations more efficiently than currently 
provided by drilling rig operators, for 
example change out of electric submersible 
pumps and well completions. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
GMS Evolution showcasing the cantilever system at ADIPEC, Abu Dhabi. 11 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
Europe
Despite the challenges of the oil price 
environment, we successfully maintained 
high utilisation in the European market, 
albeit partly through the renegotiation  
of charter rates. Decommissioning remains  
a significant source of potential demand  
for GMS in the North Sea, although the 
competing strategic and economic priorities 
of stakeholders in these offshore assets  
has meant that the scale of actual 
decommissioning progress is not yet  
as advanced as previously anticipated.  
GMS continues to engage with clients  
on developing these opportunities as  
our new cantilever designs for our Large  
Class SESVs lend themselves particularly 
well to the cost-effective plug and 
abandonment of old wells, a key step  
in the decommissioning process.
In the renewables sector new installation 
activity was low in 2016, resulting in large 
wind turbine installation vessels competing 
for accommodation work that had traditionally 
been carried out by similar vessels to our 
Large Class SESVs. The wind turbine market 
is expected to improve in 2017, which should 
result in more opportunities for any available 
GMS SESVs and less competition for work in 
the oil and gas sector.
Rest of World
A key step in developing our services in 
markets outside the Middle East and Europe 
was the establishment of our South East 
Asia office. Having our own regional 
presence working continuously and directly 
with clients alongside our partners will  
better position GMS for future geographic 
diversification. We continue to believe in  
the potential within those countries  
where factors such as water depth,  
weather conditions and ageing oil producing 
infrastructure lend themselves particularly 
to the use of our SESVs. 
Outlook
Whilst recognising oil prices will continue  
to influence our business, increasing  
tender activity is presenting significant 
opportunities for GMS in our core regions  
of Europe and the Middle East. This should 
lead to higher utilisation of our fleet and,  
in time, earnings growth for the business. 
We are looking forward to introducing to 
the market our pioneering well workover 
cantilever system installed on GMS Evolution 
this year, which will allow us to provide  
an even greater range of low cost well 
intervention services. We are very optimistic 
about the potential of this new service as 
our clients recognise the value it can bring  
to their businesses. 
Our focus remains on maximising utilisation 
whilst managing our costs appropriately  
and maintaining a stable capital structure, 
with cash conservation and deleveraging 
continuing to be key priorities. We expect 
the pace of recovery to build momentum, 
with utilisation increasing ahead of day 
rates. Whilst we anticipate some modest 
progress half-on-half in 2017, we are 
comfortable with expectations for the  
full year. I am confident that our modern 
fleet, leading operational experience and 
expanding technological capability places 
GMS in a good position to capitalise on new 
contract opportunities and to successfully 
grow our business in due course as our 
markets recover.
Duncan Anderson
Chief Executive Officer
27 March 2017
