 2 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Introduction
GMS AT A GLANCE
A WORLD LEADER  
IN SESVs
Gulf Marine Services is the operator of the 
world’s largest fleet of advanced self-propelled 
self-elevating support vessels (SESVs).
About us
GMS’ assets provide a stable platform for  
the delivery of a wide range of services 
performed by the Group’s national and 
international oil company clients and 
engineering, procurement and construction 
contractors throughout the lifecycle of 
offshore oil and gas projects and operators 
in the renewable energy (wind farm-related) 
industry. Our vessels are capable of 
operations in the water depths of up to 80m 
that are typically found in the Middle East, 
South East Asia, West Africa and Europe. 
We pride ourselves on being at the forefront 
of technological innovation and construct 
and maintain our own vessels at our 
quayside yard in Abu Dhabi. Our extensive 
new build programme in recent years  
has made the GMS fleet one of the most 
sophisticated in the industry. 
Our offering 
The Group’s fleet of 15 SESVs is amongst 
the youngest in the industry, with an 
average age of eight years. Our SESVs  
are four-legged vessels that move 
independently, with no requirement for 
anchor handling or tug support. They have  
a large deck space, crane capacity and 
accommodation facilities that can be 
adapted to the requirements of our clients. 
These vessels support our clients in a broad 
range of offshore oil and gas platform 
refurbishment and maintenance activities, 
well intervention work and offshore wind 
turbine maintenance work (which are 
opex-led activities), as well as offshore  
oil and gas platform installation and 
decommissioning and offshore wind turbine 
installation (which are capex-led activities). 
Small Class
• 8 units
• Average age: 12 years  
(9 years excl. Naashi)
• Water depth: 45m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
Mid-Size Class
• 3 units
• Average age: 2 years 
• Water depth: 55m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Large Class
• 4 units 
• Average age: 4 years
• Water depth: 65–80m
• Accommodation for  
up to 300 people
• Harsh weather capable
Three classes of vessels serve a range of client needs
GMS fleet of SESVs
Large Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Evolution
(i)
2017
GMS Enterprise 2014
GMS Endeavour 2011
GMS Endurance 2010
Mid-Size Class Vessels Year of Delivery
GMS Sharqi 2016
GMS Scirocco 2015
GMS Shamal 2015
Small Class Vessels Year of Delivery
Pepper 2015
Kinoa
(ii)
2012
Keloa 2009
Kudeta 2008
Kawawa 2006
Kikuyu 2005
Kamikaze 1999
Naashi 1982
(i) GMS Evolution complete with a well workover cantilever will be ready for operations from Q2 2017. 
(ii) Kinoa is a leased vessel that the Group has an option to acquire, to which it has not committed.  3 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
History 
GMS was established in Abu Dhabi, UAE  
in 1977 and in 1982 pioneered the design, 
build and operation of the first purpose  
built four-legged self-propelled SESV in  
the Gulf. In 2007 the Group was acquired  
by a consortium of investors, led by private 
equity firm Gulf Capital, and a new senior 
management team was appointed, headed 
by the current CEO Duncan Anderson.  
At this time, the Group was operating  
three self-propelled SESVs (with a fourth 
undergoing refurbishment) and had another 
under construction. During the last nine 
years, GMS has successfully expanded its 
fleet and geographical coverage, from a  
local operation in Abu Dhabi to become the 
largest operator of self-propelled SESVs in 
the world. The Group listed on the London 
Stock Exchange in March 2014.
The current SESV fleet stands at  
15 vessels (as at 1 March 2017) as set  
out in the table adjacent; the Group also  
has an accommodation barge and two 
anchor-handling tug support vessels.
The first Large Class vessel, which opened 
up a market sector where vessels can 
operate in harsh weather and deeper water 
environments, was constructed in 2010, with 
a second delivered in 2011. In 2010 when 
GMS Endurance was completed, it was 
initially deployed in Saudi Arabia, whilst the 
second, GMS Endeavour, was mobilised to 
the North Sea; both markets were a first  
for GMS and allowed us to expand our 
geographic and client footprint beyond the 
UAE, where we had predominantly been 
working up to that time. GMS operated 
entirely in the oil and gas sector until 2011 
when we entered the offshore wind power 
installation market in North West Europe 
with one of our Large Class vessels, GMS 
Endeavour. In 2015 GMS secured its first 
contract in the North Sea supporting 
decommissioning activities in the offshore  
oil and gas sector.
In 2014 we embarked on a programme  
to expand the fleet by a further six SESVs  
as part of our strategy to widen the scope  
of our market opportunities and our 
geographical footprint, and this included  
the introduction of our new Mid-Size Class 
vessels which has successfully bridged the 
gap between our Large and Small Class 
vessels. All of these have been delivered  
on time and within budget; the sixth vessel, 
GMS Evolution, has had a well workover 
cantilever installed and will be ready for 
operations from Q2 2017. 
GMS supports:
• Well intervention services  
and enhanced oil recovery
• Drilling support, completions  
and testing
• Platform construction, hookup  
and commissioning
• Platform restoration  
and maintenance
• Coil tubing, wireline and snubbing
• Well abandonment and 
decommissioning
• Wind turbine installation  
and maintenance
• Offshore wind farm substation 
commissioning and maintenance
What differentiates GMS from other operators? 
• Pioneering development of Large Class and Mid-Size Class SESVs.
• All our SESVs have four legs – this, combined with our dynamic positioning system 
on our Large Class and Mid-Size Class vessels, helps us to position our vessels very 
close to the clients’ installations and provides a significantly more stable and 
reliable platform than three-legged jackup vessels. 
• All our SESVs are self-propelled – they do not need costly support vessels for travel 
and manoeuvres, saving our clients both time and money.
• We design, build and operate our own SESVs. We do not rely on third party 
shipyards for maintenance and modification. 
• We are at the forefront of technological innovation – we use our in-house expertise 
to enhance the design of our vessels and expand our services so that we can 
provide flexible, cost-effective, offshore support solutions to our clients. 
More information on the above can be found in our business model and strategy on 
pages 12 to 15.
Expanding capability through innovation 
GMS has been at the forefront of pioneering technological innovation for some 40 years. We have been proactively enhancing the 
design of our vessels and broadening the range of services we offer in order to provide the most efficient and cost-effective offshore 
support solutions for our clients. 
In 2016 we developed pioneering cantilever systems for our Large Class SESVs. The cantilever systems will allow us to deliver a greater 
range of services from our SESVs and to carry out work that would otherwise be performed by more expensive non-propelled drilling 
rigs. More details on the well workover cantilever system installed on GMS Evolution can be found on page 27.  
We are continuing to expand our services as part of our strategic plan to apply our ability to innovate technologically to diversify into 
new markets and to increase our geographical spread. 
