 4 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Introduction
As we had anticipated, the sustained  
low oil price and subsequent pressure on 
vessel demand and charter rates affected 
our business, but the management team 
was able to deliver a satisfactory set of 
results against this difficult background  
with adjusted EBITDA for the year of  
US$ 106.8 million (US$ 138.5 million in 2015). 
While much of 2016 was challenging, we are 
currently seeing an improvement in tender 
activity, which we expect to be reflected  
in an increasing backlog in due course.  
We have secured six new contracts since 
August, with a total charter period in  
excess of six years including extension 
options. Our backlog as at 1 March 2017 
stands at US$ 209.2 million (comprising  
firm and extension options). 
I am pleased to report that the Board has 
recommended a final dividend for the year 
of 1.20 pence (1.50 cents) per share subject 
to shareholders’ approval at the AGM on 
16 May 2017 and this will be paid on 19 May 
2017. The dividend per share for 2016 has 
been held constant and the total dividend 
for the year is 1.61 pence per share (2.04 cents). 
The progress we have made in expanding 
our services is very promising, particularly 
the development of our new cantilever 
system for our Large Class vessels.  
This new capability will broaden our 
accessible market and will allow us, in  
this current cost-sensitive environment,  
to offer well workover services much  
more cost-effectively than those provided 
by traditional jackup drilling rigs. Further 
information on this new concept is  
contained in the Operational Review  
section of this report. 
We successfully completed our current  
new build programme with two new vessels 
delivered during 2016. We are pleased to see 
new markets opening up to GMS following  
the addition to our fleet of Large Class and 
Mid-Size Class vessels in recent years;  
further details on this strategic expansion 
can be found in the CEO’s Review. Future 
development of the fleet is likely to focus on 
the further extension of our service offering. 
We will consider fitting cantilevers to our 
other Large Class vessels once we have 
proved the concept and identified additional 
market demand. 
As detailed elsewhere in this report, we 
maintained high levels of health and safety 
across the business during a busy year  
and this will remain a key priority for 
management. I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all our staff, both 
onshore and offshore, for their continued 
hard work and dedication to GMS. 
As we announced in December 2016, 
independent non-executive Director Mike 
Straughen and non-executive Director 
Richard Dallas stepped down from the GMS 
Board with effect from 1 January 2017. On 
behalf of the Board I would like to thank Mike 
and Richard, who both joined GMS at the 
time of our IPO in 2014, for their valuable 
contributions to the Group. Their wealth  
of experience and sound stewardship has 
been much appreciated throughout their 
time with us. 
I remain confident that under the leadership 
of our CEO Duncan Anderson and his strong 
management team, GMS will be able to 
further expand our service offering and 
maximise new charter opportunities in an 
improving market. 
Simon Heale
Chairman
27 March 2017
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
I am very pleased to be introducing 
Gulf Marine Services’ 2016 Annual 
Report. The Group has delivered  
a good performance in the year 
despite the subdued market 
environment. 5 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION 6 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Review 8
Our Business Model 12
Our Strategy 15
Key Performance Indicators 16
Risk Management 18
STRA TEGIC 
REPORT 7 GULF MARINE SERVICES PLC Annual Report 2016
PERFORMANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT INTRODUCTION
