 H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10
c hief	Ex ecutiv e ’ s 	r e vie w
P a w n 	 S e r v i c e 	 c h a r g e
P a w n 	 S e r v i c e 	 c h a r g e 	 g r o s s 	 p r o fi t (£m) 
Gross profit has risen 30.5% to £66.8m 
(2009: £51.2m) and profit before 
tax is up 37.8% to £25.5m (2009: 
£18.5m). One off working capital 
improvements and a reduction in aged 
pledge balances have also contributed 
£4.9m to gross profits in the period.
The Group’s core pawnbroking business 
has performed well, achieving a record 
level of lending in the period and again 
delivering good underlying growth in 
the gross pledge book to £39.5m. 
This is a pleasing result given the 
increased availability of gold purchasing 
as an option for the consumer.
Gold purchasing itself has remained a 
strong source of profit and cash flow 
for the Group as H&T has retained 
a strong presence and continues to 
benefit from seizing an early initiative in 
this market. The Group has reduced its 
net debt significantly in the year, down 
from £42.3m at 31 December 2009 
to £27.0m at 31 December 2010.
Another benefit to profitability and 
cash flow has been the rising gold 
price during the year. The average gold 
price in 2010 of £794 per troy ounce 
was 28% higher than in 2009 and has 
allowed the Group to enjoy higher than 
expected disposition margins. It has 
also supported an increased average 
loan ensuring that the Group remains 
competitive on the high street.
The Group continues its strategy of 
expansion, adding a further 13 greenfield 
sites in 2010 and completing 1 relocation. 
It is a credit to our staff that the core 
estate continues to perform well, while 
over the period since IPO 70 new stores 
have either been opened or acquired 
by the Group. This has provided 
additional valuable experience to the 
management team. At 31 December 
2010 the Group had 180 branded 
outlets of either H&T Pawnbrokers 
or H&T GoldBar across the U.K.
I 	 a m 	 p l e a s e d 	 t o 	 r e p o r t 	 a n o t h e r 	 s t r o n g 	 s e t	
o f 	 r e s u l t s 	 f o r 	 t h e 	 G r o u p . 	 A 	 s t r o n g 	 t r a d i n g 	
p e r f o r m a n c e 	 a n d 	 c o n t i n u e d 	 e x p a n s i o n 	 h a s 	
d r i v e n 	 g r o w t h 	 a c r o s s 	 a l l 	 b u s i n e s s 	 s e g m e n t s . 	
P a w n 	 S e r v i c e 	 c h a r g e	
Pawn Service Charge (PSC) represents all income earned up to the completion  
of a pledge. The main items are interest and net profit from auctions after returning 
any surplus to the customer.
In 2010 PSC represented 35% of total gross profits (2009: 44%) and 57% of total 
pawnbroking income (2009: 68%). The reduction of PSC as a percentage of the 
total group gross profit is due to the strong gold purchasing volumes experienced 
during the year and higher gold price increasing the Group’s scrap margins
The average loan in 2010 was £151 (2009: £136) and the yield on the pledge book 
was 59% (2009: 61%). The recently increased average loan has impacted the yield 
due to the lag in interest collections.
2006
15.3
2007
17.1
2008
19.7
2009
22.3
2010
23.2
compound annual growth 
     rate from 2006 in PSC 
           gross profit
+11
% H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
        compound annual growth rate            
           from 2008 in disposition    
              gross profit
+38
%
REv IEW	Of 	OPERA TIONS
Pa wn	Ser vice	c har g e
Pawnbroking remains the Group’s core 
business and is the largest and most 
resilient component of Group profit, 
contributing £23.2m in 2010, a headline 
increase of 3.9% (2009: £22.3m). 
Removing auction profits, as these were 
impacted by exceptional proceeds in 
H1 2009, reveals stronger underlying 
growth in interest collections of 7.7%.
This growth has been achieved by 
a record level of lending during the 
year, itself driving an increase in the 
gross pledge book to £39.5m at 31 
December 2010 (2009 reported: £38.2m, 
2009 pre-aged pledge: £36.6m).
Lending growth at the Group’s newer 
stores and an increased average loan 
has offset competitive pressure in some 
of the Group’s more mature stores.
The increased average loan size of 
£151 (2009: £136) has ensured the 
Group remains competitive on the 
high street, whether in relation to 
competition from other pawnbrokers 
or the increased availability of gold 
purchasing as an option to the consumer. 
The Group has marginally improved 
its redemption rate during 2010.
Retail jewellery sales
Retail turnover increased by 19.2% 
to £19.6m (2009: £16.4m) driven by 
expansion in the store estate. On a 
like-for-like basis retail turnover was 
flat year-on-year which given the 
challenging high street environment and 
the underlying price point and therefore, 
affordability of gold is a pleasing result.
This reflects the excellent value proposition 
offered by the Group in relation to other 
retailers and the continued investment 
into both staff training and store design. 
11
O v ER v IEW REv IEW	O f 	Th E	Bu SINESS G O v ERN AN c E fIN AN c IAl 	S T A TE m ENT S
Disposition refers to the entire process to dispose of forfeited 
pledges. The key routes are retail through the stores and 
scrap. Given the higher margin our preferred route is via retail.
Retail
The Company’s retail proposition is primarily gold and 
jewellery and the large majority (>90%) of retail sales are items 
sourced from pawnbroking or purchasing operations. We also 
complement our retail offering with a small amount of new 
jewellery to maximise customer draw to our windows.
We have incorporated the retail offering into all but one H&T 
branded outlet and all new H&T Pawnbrokers now have a 
dedicated retail window, most including an internal display 
with a separate retail counter.
Profitability in this area is driven by sound valuation at the 
point of purchase or lending and also by the management  
of appropriate stock. Our preference is to retail the stock  
that is produced from forfeited loans to maximise our returns.
The advantage of H&T over other retailers is that the cost of 
our supply is relatively low and we can scrap surplus items 
and still make a profit. This offsets the fact that we have little 
choice over our supply and therefore must retail what we have 
available to sell.
As almost all items retailed come from pawnbroking or 
purchasing operations we are able to offer an excellent value 
proposition that is extremely hard to beat on the high street.
S c r a p
Items that are damaged beyond repair, slow moving or surplus 
to retail requirement, may be smelted and sold at the current 
gold spot price less a small commission. The point of sale 
system reduces the amount lent or paid on items identified as 
scrap or low quality so we are still able to make a reasonable 
margin on scrap sales.
D i s p o s i t i o n
T o t a l 	 d i s p o s i t i o n 	 g r o s s 	 p r o fi t 	 i n c l u d i n g 	
retail and pawnbroking scrap (£m) 
2008
9.4
2009
10.3
2010
17.8 compound annual growth 
   rate from 2008 in gold 
       purchasing gross profit
+278
%
12
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Improved management information 
from the Group’s new I.T. system, 
combined with improved distribution 
capabilities as a result of the relocation 
of the Group’s jewellery centre has also 
led to an improved sales/stock mix.
The Group continues to focus on retail 
as an important revenue stream as it can 
act as a valuable means of disposition 
in the event of a fall in the gold price.
Pawnbroking scrap
H&T has a natural hedge to offset any 
potential fall in jewellery sales as its 
alternative disposition method is to 
scrap the gold for the then current gold 
price. Scrap profits from the disposition 
of items forfeited from the Group’s 
pledge book contributed £9.0m in 2010 
(2009: £2.1m). Of the total one off profit 
contribution of £4.9m, £2.1m has been 
realised within Pawnbroking Scrap as a 
result of the disposal of the aged pledge 
balances held at the end of 2009.
G o l d 	 p u r c h a s i n g
Gold purchasing profit rose significantly 
in 2010 as a result of strong purchasing 
volumes at stores, a full year contribution 
from the Group’s GoldBar operation 
and the rising price of gold.
Total gold purchasing profit of £20.1m 
(2009: £13.5m) has also benefited 
from an improvement in the Group’s 
working capital processes, delivering an 
estimated £2.8m of the £4.9m one-off 
gross profit contribution in the year.
The Group has benefited from heightened 
public awareness of both gold purchasing 
as a service and the value inherent 
in their jewellery. Purchase volumes 
across the store estate, while down from 
their peak in H2 2009, have remained 
relatively stable throughout 2010. This 
is a pleasing result given the changing 
competitive environment and reflects 
the competitive pricing offered. The 
Group’s first mover advantage and 
hence longevity in this market has also 
helped build brand recognition and trust 
among our customers. H&T’s GoldBar 
retail mall units remain a profitable 
and flexible business with 45 units in 
operation at the year end (2009: 54).
The sterling gold price has also benefitted 
performance in this highly cash generative 
segment. The higher absolute price 
benefits scrap proceeds, but also a rising 
price environment helps sustain higher 
than expected margins due to the time 
lag between purchase and disposition.
c h e q u e 	 c a s h i n g
Revenues net of bad debt and 
provisions from the Group’s Third 
Party Cheque Cashing and Pay Day 
Advance products increased to £5.1m 
(2009: £4.8m) and now contribute 
7.7% of gross profit (2009: 9.4%).
Commission earned from third party 
cheque cashing declined by 8.2% in 
the year, affected by both the current 
economic climate and gradual withdrawal 
of cheques from the banking system. 
Improved debt collection rates offset 
this decline however, resulting in broadly 
flat net revenues year-on-year.
Net revenues from the Group’s Pay 
Day Advance product increased by 
6.1% during the year with new stores 
and further improved debt collections 
offsetting increased competition 
from on-line providers. The Group is 
currently developing more sophisticated 
credit scoring models in order to 
widen acceptance criteria and grow 
this product, whilst maintaining the 
current strong debt performance.
K w i k l o a n
The KwikLoan loan book has benefited 
from the gradual withdrawal of the 
cheque guarantee card resulting in 
some customers converting from the 
Pay Day Advance product to KwikLoan. 
The loan book increased to £1.0m 
at the year end (2009: £0.6m).
c hief	Ex ecutiv e ’ s 	r e vie w 	continued c heq ue 	cashing
Cheque cashing is the provision of cash in exchange for a 
cheque payable to our customer for a commission fee based 
on the face value of the cheque. The average cheque value in 
2010 was £318 (2009: £316), with the average fee being £20 
(6.4%) (2009: £20 (6.5%)).
The cheques are normally in respect of wages and the  
service is used as a quick and convenient alternative to  
a bank overdraft. The product simply serves a short term  
need for cash.
In order to manage the risk associated with cashing third party 
cheques we have access to a variety of information, from 
credit reference agencies to internet directories, as well as our 
own point of sale system and database of customer activity. 
Pa y	Da y	A dv ance
Pay Day Advance is a simple form of credit, where the advance 
is repaid by cheques presented by the customer at the point of 
the loan. The contract allows for 30 days credit and the average 
advance in 2010 was £465 (2009: £462), with a typical charge 
of 13% (2009: 13%) per 30 days.
The customer will agree a date for the cheque to be banked, 
then either:
•	 Pay additional fees for another 30 days (Extend); or
•	 Pay the face value of the cheque in cash (Settle); or
•	 Allow the cheque to be deposited into our account
Kwikl oan
H&T identified the need for an unsecured loan product that 
had a longer duration than a Pay Day Advance. The principle 
is that some customers are unable to repay the lump sum of 
a Pay Day Advance after 30 days and prefer a smaller regular 
repayment. The underwriting criteria are essentially the same 
as for a Pay Day Advance although we do more verification to 
ensure that the customer is likely to be a reasonable risk for 
the duration of the loan.
KwikLoan is currently offered over a 12 month period for loan 
values up to £750, although the average is closer to £600. We 
earn approximately £300 gross interest on a £500 KwikLoan 
over a 12 month period.
Pre-paid debit card
H&T offer a pre-paid debit card on behalf of Advanced 
Payment Solutions (APS) under the CashPlus brand. The 
card is an instant issue Cirrus card (which allows ATM access 
immediately), with a personalised MasterCard issued to the 
customer in the post within 10 days. For further product 
information refer to www.apsgroup.com.
H&T were the first national chain to provide the CashPlus card 
in the U.K. and we remain one of the largest customers of APS.
The card is the ideal vehicle to provide funds to our customers 
in a more convenient form than cash. The card is the natural 
extension to each of our cash based products, with the store 
staff cross selling the benefit as part of our pawnbroking and 
cheque cashing transactions. We expect the card to enhance 
our relationship with customers, increasing retention and 
loyalty as they will use our outlets to load additional funds on 
to the card.
The customers value the status of having a MasterCard 
and the ability to use the card online, with over half the 
transactions on the card being for internet purchases.
13 H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
O v ER v IEW REv IEW	O f 	Th E	Bu SINESS G O v ERN AN c E fIN AN c IAl 	S T A TE m ENT S
O t h e r 	 fin a n c i a l 	 s e r v i c e s
T o t a l 	 o t h e r 	 fi n a n c i a l 	 s e r v i c e s 	 i n c o m e 	(£m) 
2006
2.8
2007
3.6
2008
4.1
2009
5.1
Customers have two choices when seeking to raise finance from gold jewellery in our 
stores. They may either pawn the gold, from which H&T earn a Pawn Service Charge,  
or they may select to sell their gold as a one-off transaction.
Gold purchasing was introduced by the Group in 2007 to attract a different customer 
base as well as to avoid the issue of customers pledging goods with no intention of 
redemption. Understanding the customers needs and motives is therefore a key element 
to our staff training to ensure the correct result for both the customer and the Group. 
Nor does the Group seek to influence behaviour by differentiating on price between 
purchasing and lending rates. 
After a holding and processing period, the majority of purchased items will be smelted 
and sold at the current gold price less a small commission. In 2010, gold purchasing 
represented 30% of total gross profit (2009: 26%).
G o l d 	 p u r c h a s i n g
2008
2.6
2009
13.5
2010
20.1
Gold purchasing gross profit
(£m) 
2010
5.6 14
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
c hief	Ex ecutiv e ’ s 	r e vie w 	continued
REGul A TION
The 1986 European Commission 
Consumer Credit Directive has been 
replaced by the 2008 Consumer 
Credit Directive, with implementation 
effective from 1 February 2011.
Further consumer protection mechanisms 
have been introduced with new rights 
of withdrawal applying to all credit 
agreements and a new right of partial 
early repayment being the among 
the key changes. Another focus has 
been to improve harmonisation across 
credit industries and geographies.
It is not anticipated that the EC 
directive will have a material impact 
on the pawnbroking industry. 
Bu SINESS	S TRA TEGY 	
AND	Ou T l OOK
The Group seeks to retain its position 
as the U.K.’s leading pawnbroker by 
size of pledge book, driving growth 
via both organic and new store 
development, and by the introduction 
of new products and services.
compound annual growth   
  rate from 2006 in financial 
   services gross profit
+19
%
Within existing outlets, H&T aims  
to build upon brand recognition and 
excellent customer retention levels,  
as well as attracting new customers by:
•	 A 	focus 	on	customer 	service
•	 Competitive	 pricing
•	 Enhanced 	marketing
•	 Maintaining 	 a	r eputation 	of	
fairness and honesty
Significant growth has also been achieved 
via the expansion of the store estate. 
Of the 135 stores at the year end, 43% 
have been added within the last 4 years 
either via acquisition or greenfield rollout. 
The Group continually seeks to evolve 
its roll out strategy in order to enhance 
shareholder returns; a goal supported 
by the benefit of significant management 
experience and new store performance 
data collected over the last four years. 
Developing new products and services 
remains a key focus for the Group. 
During the year, the Group bought a 
small on-line pawnbroking operation 
for a total consideration of £80,000, 
as part of the strategy to also widen 
distribution platforms of existing services. 15 H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
O v ER v IEW R Ev IEW	O f 	Th E	Bu SINESS GO v ERN AN c E fIN AN c IAl 	S T A TE m ENT S
R e vie w	of	t he	pa wnbr oking 	mar k e t
The pawnbroking market continues 
to evolve with higher potential returns 
attracting more players into the industry 
and in reaction to new dynamics 
introduced by the rise in gold purchasing. 
Both factors have raised awareness of 
pawnbroking as a service, and drawn 
more customers into H&T’s stores. 
Still however, only a small minority 
of the population have ever visited a 
pawnbrokers and the Board believe 
that the potential market is considerably 
greater. One of the first obstacles 
to securing this market is to change 
people’s perceptions of pawnbrokers 
and the Group continues to drive this 
with its open and modern store layouts.
The pawnbroking market remains 
fragmented providing the opportunities 
for organic and acquisitional growth. 
Although there are no official statistics, 
the Board estimate there to be 500 – 
750 locations around the U.K. where 
pawnbroking is offered as a core service, 
with an additional 1,000 – 1,500 locations 
where it is offered as an ancillary service.
c ur r ent 	tr ading 	and	outlook
The Group still holds good prospects 
for organic growth as the store estate 
is still relatively immature with respect 
to pawnbroking activities. Of the 
Group’s total pledge book, 11% is 
accounted for by the 47 greenfield 
sites opened in the last four years.
As determined by market conditions, 
future growth is also likely to be 
driven via expansion of the Group’s 
geographical footprint. The Board 
currently expect to open 15-20 greenfield 
sites in 2011, with provisional lease 
terms having been agreed on 14 sites 
as at 23 February 2011. Potential 
acquisitions, given the Group’s balance 
sheet strength, will continue to be 
assessed on a case by case basis.
Current trading remains in line with market 
expectations, and while gold purchasing 
volumes remain relatively constant, the 
Board is mindful of the sustainability  
of the margin in this business segment.  
The Board believes that current consensus 
forecasts represent a reasonable 
expectation of financial performance for 
the year ending 31 December 2011.
I would also like to thank all our people 
whose skills, commitment and enthusiasm 
continue to drive our success, and 
give us confidence in the future.
John 	G	Nic hols
Chief Executive
