 H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
in a one-off profit contribution of £4.9m 
for the year. This and the additional gold 
purchasing profit has in part been invested 
into the Group’s core pawnbroking 
activities through continued new store 
development. The Group opened 13 new 
stores in the year taking its portfolio to 
135 stores at the year end (2009: 122). 
While pawnbroking remains at the core 
of the current new store programme, 
the early profitability of new stores has 
been assisted by the strength of gold 
purchasing at these locations. New stores 
are carefully scrutinized by the board for 
the development of their pawnbroking 
business, as well as gold purchasing.  
On average, these new stores continue  
to meet our expectations for the future.
A key highlight is the material 
strengthening of the Group’s balance 
sheet, from both the working capital 
contribution and the cash generated by 
gold purchasing. As a consequence, net 
debt at 31 December 2010 is £27.0m, 
down from £42.3m a year earlier. 
Basic earnings per share are up from 
37.75 pence in 2009 to 48.77 pence  
in 2010.
Economic 	and	mar k e t 	bac k g r ound
Against the continued uncertainty of world 
currencies and the prevailing low interest 
rates in many countries we have seen a 
significant rise in the sterling gold price.  
In a fundamental way this change, 
together with the marketing of gold 
purchasing, mostly by competitors, has 
led to a much wider recognition in the U.K. 
of gold as a store of value and as a source 
of cash whether by its sale or its use as 
loan collateral. Though inevitably the gold 
price will remain volatile it is likely that its 
increasing role in meeting many people’s 
financial needs will continue. 
Final dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, a final 
dividend of 6.00 pence per ordinary  
share (2009: 5.60 pence) will be paid on  
2 June 2011 to shareholders on the 
register at the close of business on  
6 May 2011. The shares will be marked 
ex-dividend on 4 May 2011. This will bring 
the full year dividend to 9.50 pence per 
3
c hair man ’ s	s t at ement
O v ER v IEW REv IEW	O f 	Th E	Bu SINESS G O v ERN AN c E fIN AN c IAl 	S T A TE m ENT S
It 	is	pleasing 	t o	r epor t 	
t hat	t he 	Gr oup	has 	
had another successful 
year in 2010 and has 
achieved both year on 
y ear 	s t or e	e xpansion 	
and 	EPS 	g r o wt h 	of 	
29.2%.	
The business has shown that despite the 
long standing nature of its pawnbroking 
business it has the entrepreneurial skills 
to have become a major participant in the 
gold buying market in the U.K. In addition 
the development of a new jewellery centre 
with improved processes will enable  
us to strengthen our position in U.K. 
jewellery retailing.
f inancial 	per f or mance
The Group has delivered a further year  
of profit growth. Since its flotation in 2006, 
pre-tax profits have risen from £5.1m in 
2006 to £25.5m in the current year. During 
this time the Group has also achieved 
estate growth from 77 stores to 135 at 
the year end, and has increased the gross 
pledge book from £25.2m to £39.5m.
The core pawnbroking business continues 
to perform well with a record level of 
lending in 2010. The Group has also 
seen an improvement in redemption 
as well as strong disposition profits; 
this improvement is important as it 
demonstrates our ability to develop long 
term relationships with our customers.  
The fact that the business has 
outperformed our expectation at the 
beginning of the year is due to gold 
purchasing being more profitable 
through the price increases in this 
fundamental commodity. Working capital 
improvements and new processes at 
the jewellery centre have also resulted 
share, including a 1.00 pence special 
interim dividend paid during the year. This 
represents an increase of 17% over the 
2009 total dividend of 8.10 pence.
The growth in dividend reflects the good 
performance of the Group in 2010 and the 
Board’s view in future prospects.
Prospects
The Group continues to hold good 
prospects for organic growth across 
its core pawnbroking business. 
Recent experience has shown that the 
development of greenfield sites achieves 
this growth in a satisfactory manner 
which has made it less attractive to 
make acquisitions though we continue to 
seek good opportunities that fit into our 
business model of pawnbroking, gold 
purchase and jewellery retailing.  
The Board expects to open 15-20 
greenfield sites in 2011. Gold purchasing 
volumes remain satisfactory and while 
margins are expected to be lower in 2011, 
we still anticipate that this business sector 
will continue to be a significant contributor 
to profits in 2011. 
Finally I would like to thank our staff and 
customers for their loyalty; and all our staff 
for their hard work and contribution to 
these excellent results.
P e t er 	D	m cN amar a
Chairman
