 Business at a glance
As at 31 December 2008 H&T was the largest
pawnbroking business in the UK in terms of the
size of the pledge book. As a business H&T has
existed in some form since the late 1800’s and
over the years has built or acquired some of the
oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the UK. Indeed
the store in Edinburgh has operated from the
same building for over 150 years serving the
same community.
More recently H&T has accelerated its development by adding new
products and services and expanding the store network. On 8 May
2006 H&T floated on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”)
providing the group with access to new sources of finance and
allowing the provision of equity based incentivisation to employees.
Since then, H&T has opened or acquired 36 stores.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and 
will continue to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the
development and retention of staff and the ongoing development 
of existing and new products together with expansion in locations. 
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 2 H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 3
Pawnbroking
goods at any point during this time providing
that they repay the original loan amount plus
any interest due. At the end of the contract,
they also have the option to extend the loan 
for a further six months. If the customer chooses
not to redeem or renew the loan, H&T then
take action to dispose of the goods.
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item of
value with a term of up to six months. H&T
value the item(s) based on weight and the
precious metal or stones used in its
manufacture. The customer agrees on a loan
amount and enters into a consumer credit
agreement. The agreement is for a period of 
6 months and the customer can redeem the
Pay Day Advance
The customer then has the option to: 
• Allow the cheques to be banked; 
• Pay them off in cash; or 
• Extend the cheques for a further 30 days
by paying the charge owed.
A Pay Day Advance (PDA) loan is a short term
cash loan repayable on the customer’s next pay
date. The service is used in a similar manner to
a bank overdraft and in fact the costs are
similar to a number of high street facilities. The
customer writes out cheques to H&T for the
value of up to £750 and is given the value of
the cheques less a 13% charge in cash. 
KwikLoan
loan agreement and we will collect the
repayments on the date agreed with the
customer. This product provides a useful way
for customers who are unable to repay a PDA
in full to manage down their loan with us.
Customers can have either a Kwikloan or 
a PDA, but not both at the same time.
Kwikloan is a simple way for customers to
obtain an unsecured loan of up to £750 which
is repaid over 12 months by direct debit.
Before issuing a loan we establish the
customer’s identity, confirm their income and
employment, and ensure that they manage their
bank account in a reasonable way. If approved
then the customer enters into a consumer credit
Third Party 
Cheque Cashing
clearance (some building societies can take
almost two weeks to clear a cheque) or to
avoid banking the cheque into an overdrawn
account. Customers are required to provide
proof of identity and address in order to use
the service.
Third Party Cheque Cashing is a service that
allows customers to get cash for their cheques
in a few minutes, rather than banking the
cheque. Most cheques are wages cheques,
although other types such as personal, lottery,
building society and Giro are considered.
Customers use H&T to speed up the cheque
Jewellery Retail
re-distributed for sale to stores across the
country. H&T staff are able to use their
extensive product knowledge to assist
customers to choose individual pieces to 
suit their requirements, a skill which of 
course enables them to make the right 
loan in the first place.
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-
hand jewellery sourced from our pledge book,
purchased over the counter or purchased from
suppliers. The vast majority of items sold are
from forfeited items and all are professionally
cleaned and restored at the company’s
refurbishment centre in Kent. They are then 
Prepaid Debit Card
and the acceptance rate is 100%. Customers
leave the store with an ATM only card and the
personalised Mastercard arrives in the post
shortly after. Cash can then be loaded to the
card at over 14,000 locations across the UK,
including any H&T store or Post Office branch.
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for
customers to have the functionality of a
Mastercard without the associated credit,
giving them the freedom to shop online, over
the phone or in store. As there is no loan or
credit involved the application process is simple
Highlights Overview Review of the Business Financial Statements
