  
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 4
Business	at 	a	g lance:
A s 	 a t 	 3 1 	 D e c e m b e r 	 2 0 1 0 	 h & T 	 w a s 	 t h e 	 l a r g e s t 	 p a w n b r o k i n g 	 b u s i n e s s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 u . K . 	
b y 	 s i z e 	 o f 	 p l e d g e 	 b o o k . 	
As a business H&T has existed in some 
form since the late 1800’s and over the 
years has built or acquired some of the 
oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the 
U.K. Indeed the store in Edinburgh has 
operated from the same building for over 
150 years serving the same community.
Pawnbroking 
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item of value with a term of up to six months. 
H&T value the item(s) based on weight and the precious metal or stones used in its 
manufacture. The customer agrees on a loan amount and enters into a consumer 
credit agreement. The agreement is for a period of 6 months and the customer can 
redeem the goods at any point during this time providing that they repay the original 
loan amount plus any interest due. At the end of the contract, they also have the 
option to extend the loan for a further six months. If the customer chooses not to 
redeem or renew the loan, H&T then take action to dispose of the goods.
Gold	pur c hasing
H&T buy jewellery direct from customers through all of our shops and more recently 
through our GoldBar units located in shopping centres throughout England and 
Scotland. Gold buying has become more widely understood during 2010 and  
a key part of H&T’s success has been to capture this heightened profile and  
to drive significant increases in volume in recent years.
The transaction is simple with the store agreeing a price with the customer  
and purchasing the goods for cash on the spot.
Pa y 	 Da y 	A dv ance	
A Pay Day Advance (PDA) loan is a short term cash loan repayable on the 
customer’s next pay date. The service is used in a similar manner to a bank 
overdraft and in fact the costs are similar to a number of high street facilities.  
The customer writes out cheques to H&T for the value of up to £750 and is  
given the value of the cheques less a 13% charge in cash. 
The customer then has the option to: 
•	 Allow 	 the	cheques 	 to	 be 	 banked;	
•	 Pay	them	 of f 	 in 	 cash;	 or	
•	 Extend	the 	 cheques	 for 	 a	further 	30	days 	by	paying 	the	charge	 owed.
More recently H&T has accelerated its 
development by adding new products 
and services and expanding the store 
network. On 8 May 2006 H&T floated 
on the Alternative Investment Market 
(“AIM”) providing the group with access to 
new sources of finance and allowing the 
provision of equity based incentivisation 
to employees. Since then, H&T has 
opened or acquired 65 stores.
H&T operates in a fast moving, 
competitive environment and will continue 
to succeed by focussing on customer 
needs, the development and retention 
of staff and the ongoing development 
of existing and new products together 
with expansion in locations.  
H&T Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 5
O v ER v IEW REv IEW	O f 	Th E	Bu SINESS G O v ERN AN c E fIN AN c IAl 	S T A TE m ENT S
Kwikl oan
KwikLoan is a simple way for customers to obtain an unsecured loan of up to £750 
which is repaid over 12 months by direct debit. Before issuing a loan we establish 
the customer’s identity, confirm their income and employment, and ensure that 
they manage their bank account in a reasonable way. If approved then the customer 
enters into a consumer credit loan agreement and we will collect the repayments on 
the date agreed with the customer. This product provides a useful way for customers 
who are unable to repay a PDA in full to manage down their loan with us. Customers 
can have either a KwikLoan or a PDA, but not both at the same time.
c heq ue 	cashing
Cheque cashing is a service that allows customers to get cash for their cheques 
in a few minutes, rather than banking the cheque. Most cheques are wages 
cheques, although other types such as personal, lottery, building society and Giro 
are considered. Customers use H&T to speed up the cheque clearance (some 
building societies can take almost two weeks to clear a cheque) or to avoid banking 
the cheque into an overdrawn account. Customers are required to provide proof of 
identity and address in order to use the service.
Jewellery retail 
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand jewellery sourced from our 
pledge book, purchased over the counter or purchased from suppliers. The vast 
majority of items sold are from forfeited items and all are professionally cleaned and 
restored at the company’s refurbishment centre in Kent. They are then re-distributed 
for sale to stores across the country. H&T staff are able to use their extensive product 
knowledge to assist customers to choose individual pieces to suit their requirements, 
a skill which of course enables them to make the right loan in the first place.
Pre-paid debit card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for customers to have the functionality of a 
MasterCard without the associated credit, giving them the freedom to shop online, 
over the phone or in store. As there is no loan or credit involved the application 
process is simple and the acceptance rate is 100%. Customers leave the store 
with an ATM only card and the personalised MasterCard arrives in the post shortly 
after. Cash can then be loaded to the card at over 14,000 locations across the U.K., 
including any H&T store or Post Office branch.
