 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
02
The Group has responded well to a rapidly changing market through effective cash 
management, cost control and alterations to business mix. The Group remains the 
leading pawnbroker in the UK and during 2013 served in excess of 180,000 customers 
with over £100m in pawnbroking loans.
Chairman’s Statement
Economic and Market Background
The UK pawnbroking industry has experienced 
a difficult past twelve months. Reduced 
volumes of gold in circulation, a 29% year 
on year fall in the sterling gold price and the 
heightened competitive environment have 
all contributed to reduce returns on capital. 
Regulatory challenges across the wider 
alternative credit industry have added to 
financial pressures.
Retail store expansion has therefore all but 
ceased for many businesses within the 
industry, with operators seeking instead to 
conserve capital, strengthen balance sheets, 
dispose of marginal stores and focus on 
maximising existing store contributions. 
Pawnbrokers have re-focussed on generating 
recurring revenues as opposed to a reliance on 
gold purchasing and on maximising disposition 
values via retail operations.
Our Group has responded well by reducing 
net debt and increasing retail sales significantly 
to counter falling revenues from scrap 
disposition. With the largest pledge book in 
the UK providing a stable source of recurring 
revenues the Group is well placed to benefit 
from any potential industry rationalisation or 
consolidation.
Strategy
Our Group offers immediate access to cash 
from attractive and convenient high street 
locations, as well as an on-line offering. We 
strive to be the UK’s pawnbroker of choice, 
meeting customers’ financial needs by offering 
loans secured against high quality jewellery 
and watches. By building close relationships 
and lending responsibly we aim to facilitate 
high redemption rates and high levels of repeat 
business.
The retail of quality jewellery attracts 
customers, informs them of the collateral we 
seek for pawnbroking and generates good 
margins on the disposition of forfeited items. 
We will further strengthen our retail of jewellery. 
This move is one of a series of steps we will 
take to reduce the impact of gold price volatility 
on our business.
Financial Performance
The Group delivered profit before tax of £6.7m 
in 2013, down from £17.0m in 2012. The 29% 
decline in the sterling price of gold accounted 
for the majority of this fall, significantly 
impacting the Group’s revenues from the sale 
of scrap gold.
The Group has taken a measured approach to 
cost reductions during 2013 in light of reduced 
earnings and as a result the cost base in 2013 
was lower than 2012 despite a larger footprint. 
We would expect the costs to be lower again 
in 2014 as the full year effect of the savings is 
realised.
The falling gold price has provided an 
opportunity in retail as our jewellery has 
become relatively more affordable. The Group 
has increased focus on this disposition route in 
H2 13 and I am pleased to report that Q4 2013 
like-for-like retail sales were up 56% year on 
year. Retail will play an increasingly important 
part in our business model going forward with 
the increased margins it affords.
The Group experienced a decline of 14.5% in 
the pledge book to £44.1m as at 31 December 
2013 (2012: £51.6m) principally as a result of 
the competitive environment. Pawnbroking is 
core to the business and we have responded 
to this decline by measured expansion in the 
asset classes we take as security, additional 
staff training and expert support on quality 
watches and gemstones together with 
focussed marketing efforts.
1 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
03
STRATEGIC REPORT
As a board we are strategically reviewing 
other product developments aimed at helping 
mitigate the effect of gold price volatility on our 
business.
During the year, 5 new pawnbroking stores 
were opened and 3 were acquired resulting in 
194 trading units at year end. We anticipate a 
small number of store closures during the year, 
reflecting the shifting footfall on the UK’s high 
streets, new opportunities will equally arrive to 
improve our footprint in favourable economic 
locations. 
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet 
strength has progressed well during the year 
and at 31 December 2013 Group net debt 
was £20.7m (31 Dec 12: £27.6m). Cash 
management remains a priority for the Group 
as we seek to establish an appropriate level of 
headroom both to de-risk the business and to 
enable us to take acquisition opportunities as 
they arise.
Basic earnings per share are 13.44 pence 
(2012: 35.92 pence).
Regulation
The regulation of consumer credit is moving 
from the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) to 
the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in 
April 2014. The Group is well prepared for 
the transition and we welcome the higher 
standards that this change will bring to our 
sector.
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, a final 
dividend of 2.7 pence per ordinary share 
(2012: 8.05 pence) will be paid on 6 June 2014 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 9 May 2014. The shares will be 
marked ex-dividend on 7 May 2014. This will 
bring the full year dividend to 4.8 pence per 
ordinary share (2012: 11.85 pence).
The reduced dividend reflects the lower 
earnings in the year and the Group’s intention 
to maintain appropriate earnings cover in light 
of current trading conditions.
Prospects
Our sector has witnessed two significantly 
adverse events in 2013; one the falling gold 
price, the other the regulatory and market 
issues around pay day lending. As a result 
all of the larger providers have suffered 
material reductions in earnings. This pressure 
on earnings is further compounded by the 
expansion in high street provision in recent 
years, an expansion that reached its peak 
in 2012, which in turn increases competitive 
pressure. The Board’s view is that the 
current number of stores in the industry is 
unsustainable and that 2014 will be a year of 
consolidation and rationalisation; indeed we 
have already seen a number of store closures 
and would expect to see more.
In this new market we believe it is critical to 
maintain the high operating standards we 
have developed over many years, to drive 
efficiencies in the business and seek to expand 
the products and services that have been more 
recently introduced. We believe that we are well 
positioned in the sector in terms of financial 
stability and business model to take advantage 
of the opportunities as and when they arise.
Key to achieving these aims is the loyalty of our 
customers; this is achieved through the hard 
work and support of our staff, whom I thank  
on behalf of the Board and shareholders.
I would also take this opportunity to thank 
Alex Maby for his work in the last five years in 
his role as Finance Director. I am pleased to 
have Steve Fenerty, formerly our Commercial 
Director, as his successor.
Peter D McNamara
Chairman
1.  Our Nottingham Store
2.  Our Sona Loans
TM
 store in Southall
3.  The internal retail area of one of our stores
4.  Our Blackburn store with sail sign 
marketing
2
4
3
