 H&T GROUP PLC
04
Retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-hand jewellery and watches sourced from our pledge 
book, purchased over the counter or purchased from suppliers. All H&T’s jewellery is professionally 
cleaned, restored and valued at the Group’s refurbishment centre in Kent before being re-distributed 
for sale at stores across the country. All of H&T’s staff are trained to a high standard to help 
customers choose individual pieces to suit their requirements.
Gold Purchasing
Gold Purchasing is a simple way for customers to use their unwanted gold to raise some cash.  
The process is straightforward with the store assessing the items, agreeing a price with the customer 
and purchasing the goods for cash on the spot. Customers can also sell watches and diamonds to 
H&T which sets us apart from other providers in the market.
Personal Loans
Personal Loans are a simple and innovative way for customers to obtain an unsecured loan of up 
to £1,000. They offer complete flexibility on the length of loan and regular repayments, depending 
on the personal circumstances of each customer. Before issuing a loan we establish the customer’s 
identity, confirm their income and employment and complete an affordability assessment. If approved 
then the customer enters into a consumer credit loan agreement and we will collect the repayments 
on the dates agreed with the customer.
As at 31 december 2014, H&T was the largest pawnbroking 
business in the Uk by size of pledge book.
H&T has existed in some form since the late 1800s and over the years has built or acquired 
some of the oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the Uk. Indeed the store in Edinburgh has 
operated from the same building for more than 150 years serving the same community.
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on the Alternative Investment Market (“AIM”) providing the Group with access to new sources of finance 
and allowing the provision of equity-based incentivisation to employees. Since then H&T has accelerated its development by adding 
new products and services and expanding the store network by 122 stores to 191 at 31 December 2014.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and will continue to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the 
development and retention of staff and the development of existing and new products together with expansion in locations.
THE BUSINESS AT A GLANCE
Pawnbroking 
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item of value with a term of up to six months. H&T values the 
item(s) based on weight and the precious metal or stones used in its manufacture. The customer 
agrees on a loan amount and enters into a consumer credit agreement. The agreement is for a 
period of six months and the customer can redeem the goods at any point during this time providing 
that they repay the original loan amount plus any interest due. At the end of the contract, they also 
have the option to extend the loan for a further six months. If the customer chooses not to redeem  
or renew the loan, H&T then takes action to dispose of the goods. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
05
Strategic report
Cheque Cashing
Cheque Cashing is a service that allows customers to get cash for their cheques in a few minutes, 
rather than banking the cheque. Most are wage cheques, although other types such as personal, 
lottery, building society and Giro cheques are considered. Customers use H&T to speed up the 
cheque clearance (some building societies can take almost two weeks to clear a cheque) or to avoid 
banking the cheque into an overdrawn account. Customers are required to provide proof of identity 
and address in order to use the service.
Buyback
Increasingly, a younger generation of customers are seeking the opportunity to raise cash from 
electronic items such as phones, tablets, laptops and game consoles. To take advantage of this new 
asset class, H&T has developed its Buyback offer. Customers can sell their electronic items to H&T 
for cash and buy the item back within 31 days. H&T restrict the types of item purchased to current 
models of the most popular items.
Prepaid debit Card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for customers to have the functionality of a Mastercard without 
the associated credit, giving them the freedom to shop online, over the phone or in store. As there 
is no loan or credit involved the application process is simple and the acceptance rate is 100%. 
Customers leave the store with an ATM only card and the personalised Mastercard arrives in the post 
shortly after. Cash can then be loaded to the card at over 14,000 locations across the UK, including 
any H&T store or Post Office branch.
Western Union
Every year millions of people worldwide trust Western Union to send money within minutes to family, 
friends or colleagues in other countries. Since H&T launched Western Union in 2012 it has increased 
transaction numbers to around 10,000 per month and introduced a new customer base to H&T.
Foreign Exchange
H&T offer a foreign exchange service at highly competitive rates and with no commission charges, 
further establishing one of our core strengths of offering great value to the customer. Not only does 
offering this additional service make currency exchange easier for our customers, but we’re also 
broadening our appeal to a new audience.
Online Apps Stores
