 Chairman’ s Statement
INTRODUCTION
The demand for small sum short-term loans remains strong. We have 
increased the Pawnbroking loan book and the growth in Personal Loans is 
a particular success. We now need to see evidence that this is a profitable 
growth strategy.
In addition, the expansion in related services such as FX and Buyback 
widens our appeal and provides an increasingly significant source of profits. 
These alternative services also provide a measure of flexibility as market 
changes take place.
During 2016, the currency volatility in connection with the US election 
result and Brexit has assisted the gold price, which has improved the 
margin on sales of scrap gold.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group delivered profit after tax of £7.6m (2015: £5.4m) and diluted 
earnings per share of 20.88 pence (2015: 14.86 pence). Subject to 
shareholder approval, a final dividend of 5.3 pence per ordinary share 
(2015: 4.5 pence) will be paid on 2 June 2017 to those shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on 5 May 2017. This will bring  
the full year dividend to 9.2 pence per ordinary share (2015: 8.0 pence).
The Group’s financial position is strong with net debt of £5.4m  
at 31 December 2016 (31 December 2015: £2.1m) and headroom  
of £15m on its borrowing facilities.
REGULATION
The consumer credit activities of the Group are regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA), from which the Group obtained authorisation  
on 11 February 2016, with specific rules governing high-cost short-term 
credit (HCSTC). The FCA implemented an interest rate cap for HCSTC  
in 2015 and have committed to reviewing the effectiveness of the cap  
in the first half of 2017. 
We have designed our Personal Loans so that all are below the  
current cap; in reality, the vast majority are significantly lower than  
the cap. We therefore believe that this review will have a limited  
impact on our business.
STRATEGY
We are developing a range of products and services that address 
customers’ need for short-term cash. We have expanded distribution 
through online, mobile and broker channels. This increased origination  
has also brought benefits to the store estate. The investments in retail 
merchandising and inventory have also begun to deliver value and  
we are further improving the presentation of our business though  
brand development.
PROSPECTS
There is some easing of the competitive environment; the wider economic 
uncertainty and fall in the value of sterling is supporting the gold price and, 
as such, demand for our products is strong. The Group is well positioned  
to take advantage of these conditions with a diverse set of products, 
developing distribution channels and consumer recognition.
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders, I would like to thank 
everyone at H&T for their hard work and dedication over the last year. 
PETER D MCNAMARA
Chairman
The Group has made good progress in developing its products to address the 
changing consumer and regulatory environment. The business has strengthened  
over the last three years to deliver a platform for growth.
02  I  www.handt.co.uk 02  I “We are developing  
a range of products and 
services that address 
customers’ need for 
short-term cash. We have 
expanded distribution 
through online, mobile 
and broker channels.”
Proposed Dividend  
Per Share 
9.2p 
(2015: 8.0p)
Diluted EPS 
20.88p 
(2015: 14.86p)
Annual Report and Accounts 2016  I  03  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
