 54 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chairman’s introduction to Governance
Leading the governance 
agenda
Paul Walker
Chairman
Our success is 
underpinned by the 
robust and meaningful 
corporate governance 
framework that we 
have in place.
Good governance is essential for promoting 
the success of the Company and it sits 
at the heart of how we manage our Group. 
Our success is underpinned by the robust 
and meaningful corporate governance 
framework that we have in place, supported 
by our Group-wide culture of openness, 
transparency, constructive challenge 
and support.
The Board is committed to maintaining  
the highest standards of corporate 
governance and, on their behalf, I am  
pleased to present Halma’s Corporate 
Governance Report for 2016.
This report provides an explanation of  
the framework within which the Group is 
governed and sets out how we have applied 
the main principles and relevant provisions of 
the UK Corporate Governance Code 2014.
LEADERSHIP
Developing effective leadership throughout the 
Group is essential for attracting and retaining 
talent and aiding succession planning. The 
additional focus that has been given to 
improving the quality and performance of 
Halma’s management talent over the past 
two years has been invaluable. The Board’s 
support of executive activity surrounding 
talent has reinforced this strategic imperative 
across the entire business.
Equally, at Board level, it is important to have 
the right balance of skills and experience, 
while enabling a refresh of non-executive 
Directors over time. Over the past year, we 
have had the opportunity to change the 
composition and responsibilities within the 
Board. Following Stephen Pettit’s retirement 
from the Board after last year’s annual 
general meeting, Tony Rice, non-executive 
Director, became the Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee and Senior 
Independent Director. Jane Aikman will  
step down as a non-executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee after our 
Annual General Meeting in July, and Carole 
Cran, who was appointed a non-executive 
Director in January 2016, will assume the  
role of Audit Committee Chairman. 
I would like to thank Jane for her valuable 
contribution to the Company over the last 
nine years, in particular in her role as Audit 
Committee Chairman and for her support 
with Carole Cran’s induction. I am delighted 
to have Carole as a member of our Board 
and welcome her further contribution as  
she prepares for and takes up the role of 
Audit Committee Chairman. 
I believe that we have the right balance of 
skills, experience and knowledge on our 
Board to deliver strong leadership, make 
clear and effective decisions and harness 
an open and transparent culture which 
encourages an entrepreneurial approach 
at a business level.
Biographies for each of the Directors are set 
out on pages 56 and 57 and for those 
Directors standing for election or re-election 
at the Annual General Meeting, are also 
contained within the Notice of Meeting. 
EFFECTIVENESS
Building on the externally facilitated Board 
evaluation that was concluded last year, I have 
continued to work closely with my fellow 
Directors to improve the effectiveness of the 
Board. The competence and culture of open 
challenge that lies within our Board enables 
us to deliver effective decision-making within 
a governance framework which is fit for the 
future growth of the Company.  Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 55
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PEOPLE AND CULTURE
I reported in last year’s Chairman’s statement 
that we were upgrading our talent and 
education programmes to ensure that we 
have the best people to meet the growing 
demands of our business and customers. 
I am pleased to report that we have made 
considerable progress in this area and have 
continued to foster a culture which is more 
diverse and inclusive. You can read more 
about our talent and leadership initiatives 
on pages 50 and 51.
REWARDING SUCCESS
We recognise that recruiting and retaining 
talent that can deliver the capabilities that 
we need to match Halma’s growth requires 
a reward structure that motivates our people 
to outperform and enables them to share in 
Halma’s success. The executive share plan 
adopted at last year’s annual general meeting 
was designed to incentivise our executives 
and senior management to achieve superior 
returns for the Company and align their 
How the Board supported strategy
Governance at Halma, like its business model, is ingrained in the operating culture throughout the organisation and within the Board of 
Directors. With a model that has had great success in terms of consistent dividend growth and TSR performance in the UK, the Board has 
not needed to oversee any large scale changes but has not been complacent and has continued to improve its processes and procedures  
to ensure that they are fitting for a company that is near the top of the FTSE 250. 
Strategy The Board’s governance role
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board monitors the diversity of the Group’s portfolio of businesses to ensure that proposed acquisitions 
or new market niches of strategic interest complement the strategic objectives of the Group and do not 
dilute the resources of the management teams. The Board also provides sufficient challenge to the internal 
resources dedicated to identifying and evaluating the deal pipeline.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board exemplifies the autonomous culture of the Group as one of providing our employees with the 
space to exercise control and authority having given them the guidance and tools to operate. The Board’s 
support in such endeavours underpins the right behaviours.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board recognises that part of Halma’s fundamental strength not only derives from our selection  
of specialist technologies in markets with resilient growth drivers, but also in our targeting of investment  
in the right opportunities and deliberately placing that investment close to our end markets. The Board 
endorses the agile operating structure which is best suited to deliver successful innovation.
Innovate
Empower
Acquire
Grow
The Board provides each business with the necessary investment to meet our growth targets,  
but equally, subjects them to rigorous scrutiny so that investment priorities can be evaluated.
reward with the interests of shareholders. 
Further information on the Company’s 
remuneration policy and approach is set 
out in the Remuneration Report on pages 
73 to 90.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
CODE 2014 (THE CODE) 
Throughout the year ended 2 April 2016, 
the Company has fully complied with the 
provisions as set out in the Code (a copy of 
which is available on the Financial Reporting 
Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk). The 
Group’s approach to risk management  
and internal control is summarised on  
pages 28 and 29. 
The Directors confirm that they consider  
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken  
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable and provides the information 
necessary for shareholders to assess the 
Company’s position and performance. 
The Group’s business model is set out on 
page 12 and an explanation of the strategy 
and longer-term objectives of the Company  
is contained within the Strategic Review on 
pages 4 to 47 . 
BOARD PRIORITIES
Our priorities for 2017 are to continue to: 
improve focus on our customers and their 
needs through innovation and our go-to-
market strategies; seek acquisition 
opportunities in existing and new markets 
which complement our current portfolio  
and which can deliver the growth that 
we expect; and improve the capabilities  
and diversity of our talent.
Paul Walker
Chairman
14 June 2016
