 02  I
Chairman’ s statement
INTRODUCTION
The UK economy has improved over the past year and we have seen a halt 
in the decline in our pledge book with some worthwhile growth in other 
product lines, notably Foreign Exchange, Personal Loans and Buyback. A 
number of initiatives have been launched which are still in the proving 
period; we will expand and develop those that are successful over coming 
months.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group delivered profit after tax of £5.4m (2014: £4.3m) and diluted 
earnings per share of 14.86 pence (2014: 11.78 pence). Subject to 
shareholder approval a final dividend of 4.5 pence per ordinary share 
(2014: 2.7 pence) will be paid on 3 June 2016 to those shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 6 May 2016. This will bring the full 
year dividend to 8 pence per ordinary share (2014: 4.8 pence).
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet strength while maintaining 
the pawnbroking loanbook has been successful with a net debt reduction 
of 78.4% to £2.1m (31 December 2014: £9.7m).  
REGULATION
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) on 1 April 2014. The 
Group obtained authorisation from the FCA on 11 February 2016 and we 
welcome the higher standards that this change will bring to our sector.
STRATEGY
We continue to develop our products aimed at those customers who need 
a simple and straightforward loan, either secured or unsecured. We are 
introducing a more disciplined approach to the retailing of jewellery, and 
the ways in which we promote our consumer finance products over mobile 
applications.
We have reduced further the debt in the business and at the same 
time increased the potential funding to enable the business to seize the 
opportunities that will be presented by a changing market.
PROSPECTS
Continuing high levels of consumer debt and the pressures on mainstream 
lenders create new opportunities in our market. The technologies that are 
evolving in the retail space will enable us to make better use of our loan 
centre, jewellery centre, and the store network, alongside the continuing 
development of our on-line services.
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders I would like to thank 
everyone at H&T for the hard work and dedication over the last year.  
PETER D MCNAMARA
Chairman
We have seen a year of steady progress against a backdrop of volatile commodity 
prices including gold and difficult trading conditions in the sector. We have a robust 
business that remains resilient and is rigorous in its response to the regulatory 
environment and changing consumer behaviour.  Annual Report and Accounts 2015  I  03  
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
“We continue to develop our products aimed at those 
customers who need a simple and straightforward 
loan, either secured or unsecured.”
  www.handt.co.uk
Diluted EPS
1 4.86p
   (2014: 11.78p)
Proposed Dividend Per Share
8p (2014: 4.8p)
