 H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
04
The business at a glance
Pawnbroking
A pawnbroking loan is secured on an item 
of value with a term of up to six months. 
H&T value the item(s) based on weight and 
the precious metal or stones used in its 
manufacture. The customer agrees on a loan 
amount and enters into a consumer credit 
agreement. The agreement is for a period of 
6 months and the customer can redeem the 
goods at any point during this time providing 
that they repay the original loan amount plus 
any interest due. At the end of the contract, 
they also have the option to extend the loan for 
a further six months. If the customer chooses 
not to redeem or renew the loan, H&T then 
take action to dispose of the goods.
Jewellery retail
H&T offer a unique range of new and second-
hand jewellery and watches sourced from our 
pledge book, purchased over the counter or 
purchased from suppliers. All H&T’s jewellery 
is professionally cleaned, restored and valued 
at the Group’s refurbishment centre in Kent 
before being re-distributed for sale to stores 
across the country. All members of the H&T 
staff are trained to a high standard to assist 
customers in choosing individual pieces to 
suit their requirements, a skill which of course 
enables them to make the right loan in the first 
place.
As at 31 December 2013, H&T was the largest pawnbroking business in the 
UK by size of pledge book.
H&T has existed in some form since the late 1800’s and over the years has 
built or acquired some of the oldest and largest pawnbrokers in the UK. 
Indeed the store in Edinburgh has operated from the same building for over 
150 years serving the same community .
On 8 May 2006 H&T floated on the Alternative Investment Market 
(“AIM”) providing the group with access to new sources of finance and 
allowing the provision of equity based incentivisation to employees. 
Since then H&T has accelerated its development by adding new 
products and services and expanding the store network by 125 stores 
to 194 at 31 December 2013.
H&T operates in a fast moving, competitive environment and 
will continue to succeed by focussing on customer needs, the 
development and retention of staff and the ongoing development  
of existing and new products together with expansion in locations. 
Gold purchasing
Gold purchasing is a simple way for customers 
to use their unwanted gold to raise some cash. 
The process is straightforward with the store 
assessing the items, agreeing a price with the 
customer and purchasing the goods for cash 
on the spot. Customers can also sell watches 
and diamonds to H&T which of course sets us 
apart from other providers in the market. H&T Group plc  Annual Report and Accounts 2013
05
STRATEGIC REPORT
Personal Loans
Personal Loans are a simple and innovative 
way for customers to obtain an unsecured loan 
of up to £1,000. They offer complete flexibility 
on the length of loan and regular repayments, 
depending on the personal circumstances 
of each customer. Before issuing a loan we 
establish the customer’s identity, confirm their 
income and employment and complete an 
affordability assessment. If approved then the 
customer enters into a consumer credit loan 
agreement and we will collect the repayments 
on the dates agreed with the customer.
Pre-paid debit card
A pre-paid debit card is an ideal way for 
customers to have the functionality of a 
Mastercard without the associated credit, 
giving them the freedom to shop online, over 
the phone or in store. As there is no loan or 
credit involved the application process is simple 
and the acceptance rate is 100%. Customers 
leave the store with an ATM only card and the 
personalised Mastercard arrives in the post 
shortly after. Cash can then be loaded to the 
card at over 14,000 locations across the UK, 
including any H&T store or Post Office branch.
Buy Back
Increasingly, a younger generation of 
customers are seeking the opportunity to raise 
cash from electronic items such as phones, 
tablets, laptops and game consoles. To take 
advantage of this new asset class, H&T has 
developed its Buy Back offer. Customers can 
sell their electronic items to H&T for cash and 
buy the item back within 31 days. H&T restrict 
the types of item purchased to current models 
of the most popular items.
Western Union
Every year millions of people worldwide 
trust Western Union to send money within 
minutes to family, friends or colleagues in other 
countries. Since H&T launched Western Union 
in 2012 it has quickly increased transaction 
numbers to over 10,000 per month and 
introduced a new customer base to H&T.
Cheque cashing
Cheque cashing is a service that allows 
customers to get cash for their cheques in a 
few minutes, rather than banking the cheque. 
Most cheques are wages cheques, although 
other types such as personal, lottery, building 
society and Giro are considered. Customers 
use H&T to speed up the cheque clearance 
(some building societies can take almost two 
weeks to clear a cheque) or to avoid banking 
the cheque into an overdrawn account. 
Customers are required to provide proof of 
identity and address in order to use the service.
Foreign exchange
H&T offer a foreign exchange service at highly 
competitive rates and with no commission 
charges, further establishing one of our 
core strengths of offering great value to the 
customer. Not only does offering this additional 
service make currency exchange easier for 
our customers, but we’re also broadening our 
appeal to a new audience.
