 4 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review
Delivering value to 
shareholders through 
record revenue, profit 
and dividend
Andrew Williams
Chief Executive
Adjusted pre-tax profit up 
8% on revenue up 1 1 %
7% increase in total 
dividend per share
37th consecutive year of 
growing dividend payments 
by 5% or more
Four acquisitions completed 
for £193m
Strong cash generation and 
significant financial resources 
for further investment
Halma has made excellent progress, once 
again delivering record revenue, profit and 
dividends for shareholders.
Our ability to sustain success over a long 
period through changing market conditions  
is a testament to the quality and diversity of 
our portfolio of companies, which is focused 
on protecting life and improving the quality 
of life worldwide.
We have a clear growth strategy, a simple 
financial model and a customer-focused 
organisation which enables each business 
to adapt as their market opportunities 
change. The benefits of this were seen 
clearly in the past year, as growth in 
our Infrastructure Safety, Medical and 
Environmental & Analysis sectors 
ensured Halma made good progress 
while our Process Safety sector adjusted 
to more challenging market conditions.
Halma’s continued success is only possible 
through the commitment and dedication 
of talented individuals throughout our 
organisation and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank all of my colleagues for 
their contribution to another successful year.
GOOD ORGANIC GROWTH 
AND HIGH RETURNS
Revenue increased by 1 1 % to £808m 
(2015: £726m) including 6% organic constant 
currency growth and a 2% favourable currency 
impact. Adjusted profit
1
 increased by 8% 
to £166.0m (2015: £153.6m) including 3% 
organic constant currency growth and a 
2% favourable currency impact.
High returns were maintained with Return 
on Sales of 20.6% (2015: 21.2%). Return 
on Capital Employed for our operating 
companies remained strong at 72% 
(2015: 78%) and the Group’s Return on Total 
Invested Capital was 15.6% (2015: 16.3%).
STRONG CASH GENERATION 
AND BALANCE SHEET SUPPORTS 
FUTURE GROWTH
Cash generation was maintained at a  
high level and we ended the year with  
net debt of £247m (2015: £101m) after 
spending £193m (2015: £84m) on current 
year acquisitions, £24m (2015: £23m) on 
capital expenditure, and paying out £47m 
in dividends (2015: £43m) to shareholders 
and £27m of tax (2015: £31m). 
Our balance sheet is strong and will support 
further investment in our future growth. We 
have revolving credit facilities of up to £360m 
until November 2018 and in November 2015 
we agreed a US Private Placement totalling 
US$250m. We do not aim to become a highly 
geared business and therefore our balance 
sheet strategy is to ensure that we have 
sufficient financial resources to achieve our 
strategic goal, of matching organic growth 
with acquisition growth and dividend growth, 
over the medium term.
FINAL DIVIDEND TO INCREASE BY 7%
Once again, the Board is recommending a 
final dividend increase of 7% giving a final 
dividend of 7 .83p and a total dividend for  
the year of 12.81p (2015: 1 1.96p). The final 
dividend per share is subject to approval by 
shareholders at the AGM on 21 July 2016 
and will be paid on 17 August 2016 to 
shareholders on the register at 15 July 2016.
ORGANIC CONSTANT CURRENCY 
REVENUE GROWTH IN ALL 
MAJOR REGIONS
The strength of our long-term market growth 
drivers was reflected in the healthy rate of 
growth in all developed regions. Revenue 
from the USA increased by 22% to £273m 
(2015: £223m) including organic constant 
currency growth of 9%. Revenue from 
Mainland Europe grew by 7% to £179m 
(2015: £167m) and by 7% at organic constant 
currency while UK revenue was up by 5%  
to £145m (2015: £138m) with 4% organic 
constant currency growth. STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
Our clear growth 
strategy, simple financial 
model and customer-
focused approach 
enables our businesses 
to adapt as market 
opportunities change.
Revenue from outside the USA, UK and 
Mainland Europe improved by 7% to 
£21 1m (2015: £197m), representing 26% of the 
Group (2015: 27%) and including 1 % organic 
constant currency growth. Asia Pacific revenue 
grew by 7% to £125m (2015: £1 17m) including 
3% organic constant currency growth. This 
included revenue growth of 10% in China to 
£54m (2015: £49m) and an increase of 29% 
in India to £1 1m (2015: £8m). Revenue from 
Other regions was up by 7% with good growth 
in Africa, Near and Middle East compensating 
for weaker demand in South America.
RECORD RESULTS FOR THREE 
SECTORS AND RESILIENT DEMAND 
IN PROCESS SAFETY 
Infrastructure Safety revenue grew by 
13% to a record £265m (2015: £234m) 
including organic growth of 6% at constant 
currency. Profit
2
 rose by 12% to a record 
£56.2m (2015: £50.0m) with organic growth 
at constant currency of 5%. Return on Sales 
was 21.2% (2015: 21.4%).
There was double-digit organic constant 
currency revenue growth in the USA and  
mid single-digit organic growth in the UK  
and Mainland Europe. There was excellent 
progress in Africa, Near and Middle East 
which more than compensated for a modest 
organic decline in Asia Pacific. Firetrace USA, 
LLC the fire suppression business acquired in 
October 2015 traded in line with expectations 
and has integrated well within the 
Infrastructure Safety sector.
In the Medical sector revenue increased 
by 17% to a record £199m (2015: £169m), 
with impressive organic growth of 10% at 
constant currency. Profit
2
 was up by 14% 
to a record £51.7m (2015: £45.4m), which 
included organic constant currency growth 
of 9%. Return on Sales remained strong 
at 26.0% (2015: 26.8%).
Organic constant currency revenue growth 
was strongest in Mainland Europe and Asia 
Pacific, with good growth in the UK and the 
USA. Value Added Solutions, acquired in May 
2015 was successfully integrated into Diba 
Industries during the year. The integration  
of Visiometrics and CenTrak, acquired in 
December 2015 and February 2016 
respectively, is also going well and both are 
well placed to make valuable contributions  
to the sector’s progress in the year ahead.
The Environmental & Analysis sector 
performed excellently, with revenue up by 
15% to a record £189m (2015: £164m) 
including organic growth of 1 1% at constant 
currency. Profit
2
 also grew strongly, increasing 
by 26% to a record £34.5m (2015: £27 .4m) 
with impressive organic constant currency 
growth of 21%. Return on Sales improved 
to 18.3% (2015: 16.7%), which is now within 
the Group’s target range of 18% to 22%.
Regionally there was double-digit organic 
constant currency growth in the USA, Asia 
Pacific and Africa, Near and Middle East. 
There was solid single-digit organic growth  
in the UK and Mainland Europe. There were 
no acquisitions completed in the year.
Process Safety revenue was 2% lower than 
last year at £155m (2015: £159m) including  
an organic constant currency decline of 5%. 
This was a resilient result given the challenging 
market conditions caused by the lower oil 
price in energy markets, which now represents 
41% of sector revenue (2015: 48%). Profit
2
 
was down 12% to £39.6m (2015: £44.8m) 
including a 15% organic decline in constant 
currency. Return on Sales remained strong at 
25.4% (2015: 28.3%). 
Despite lower revenue, investment was 
maintained as certain businesses diversified 
into new markets including utilities and other 
process industries. This investment included a 
4% increase in R&D spend, representing 3.7% 
of sector revenue (2015: 3.4%). Consequently, 
the sector is better positioned to consolidate 
its current level of profitability in the year ahead 
even though conditions in the energy-related 
markets are expected to remain challenging.
Regionally, there was modest organic 
constant currency revenue growth in the  
UK and Mainland Europe and a small  
organic decline in the USA. There was  
an organic constant currency revenue  
decline in Asia Pacific and Other regions, 
including a significant year-on-year  
reduction in South America following  
a major €4m project in the prior year.
FOUR ACQUISITIONS COMPLETED 
IN LINE WITH OUR DISCIPLINED 
M&A STRATEGY
Halma completed four acquisitions during 
the year, resulting in a spend of £193m in  
a single financial year. 
This was particularly pleasing as the M&A 
market continued to be competitive with 
higher multiples being paid for larger 
businesses in Halma’s attractive market 
sectors. Additional M&A resources were, 
and continue to be, added to each of our  
four sector boards so that we can continue  
to find high-quality businesses to acquire at 
sensible prices. Over the medium term, our 
strategic goal is to match the average rate  
of acquisition profit growth to organic profit 
growth, since this ensures that we retain a 
strong balance sheet, sustain growth and 
increase dividends to shareholders.
Our core acquisition strategy is to find 
privately-owned businesses in, or adjacent 
to, our existing markets although each sector 
has the freedom to find new niches which 
possess the right product, market and 
financial characteristics. We consider selling 
businesses if any of these characteristics 
change adversely over time and attempts 
to diversify, or mitigate the situation, are 
not productive.
Every transaction is approved by the Group’s 
Chief Executive and Finance Director, with all 
deals worth £10m or more approved by the 
Halma plc Board. Details of the transactions 
completed during the year are as follows:
• In May 2015, we completed the acquisition 
of Value Added Solutions, LLC (trading as 
VAS Integrated). VAS, which has been 
integrated into Diba Industries within  
the Medical sector, designs and 
manufactures fluidic-related plastic 
machined components and assemblies  
for life sciences and analytical instruments. 
The initial cash consideration was  
US$5m (£3m). A further estimated  
US$1m (£0.6m) will be paid in April 2017 
based on its growth between joining 
Halma and October 2016, with no further 
consideration due to be paid after that.
• In October 2015, we acquired Firetrace 
USA, LLC, an Arizona-based manufacturer 
of customised fire suppression systems 
for confined spaces serving a range of end 
markets including transportation, process 
machinery, computer server hubs, defence 
and aerospace. This stand-alone addition 
to the Infrastructure Safety sector adds fire 
suppression technology to our successful 
fire detection business. The consideration 
paid was US$1 10m (£73m) with no future 
contingent consideration to be paid.
• In December 2015, Halma acquired 
Visiometrics, S.L. located outside 
Barcelona, Spain and Visual Performance 
Diagnostics, Inc. located in California, USA 
(together referred to as Visiometrics). 
Visiometrics’ products are used to measure 
objectively a person’s visual acuity leading 
to a more precise determination of which 
elements of the eye’s anatomy are affecting 
quality of vision, such as the early stages  
of cataract formation. This novel and new 
technology has high growth potential if it 
becomes a standard of care in the field of 
ophthalmic diagnosis where our Medical 
sector already has a strong global presence 
and this was reflected in the deal structure 
with the initial cash consideration of €18m 
(£13m) and a maximum total deferred 
contingent consideration of €107m 
(£78m) payable in instalments each 
year dependent on Visiometrics’ financial 
performance to the end of 2020. 6 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Strategic Review continued
Talent development
Halma’s Executive Board has continued to 
spend substantial time building sector boards 
for each of our four sectors. A typical sector 
board comprises a Sector CEO, Sector 
Finance Director, Sector M&A Director and 
two, or more, Sector Vice Presidents (SVPs) 
– who chair the individual operating company 
boards. By April 2016, each Halma sector 
had two Sector Vice Presidents, with five 
out of the total eight positions filled through 
internal promotions.
The sector boards are tasked with boosting 
our M&A search efforts and seeking new 
opportunities to accelerate organic growth, for 
example, by encouraging greater collaboration. 
This requires a clear vision and strategy in 
each sector, as outlined in more detail in the 
sector reviews on pages 34 to 41.
During the year, we reviewed our range of 
Halma talent development programmes 
through the lens of the future needs of our 
growing business. In April 2016 we launched 
a new programme, called HPD Enterprise, 
which will help our SVPs and MDs think more 
entrepreneurially about how they can grow 
their businesses in fast-changing markets.
We considered also how we can continue 
to develop the rich talent emerging from  
our successful HPD Graduate programme. 
We have introduced a new initiative which  
will help our graduates to build on (at least) 
two years post HPD Graduate experience. 
We are offering to support them through an 
MBA programme with the aim of accelerating 
their progress into senior management 
positions within Halma companies.
Although we have made some progress 
towards increasing the diversity of our 
management talent, we want to do more. 
In addition to simple things such as insisting 
on diversity in candidate listings from head 
hunters, we are encouraging our company 
boards to make better use of existing 
resources. This includes co-opting junior 
managers as board advisers and appointing 
Managing Directors from other Halma 
companies as non-executive directors. While 
recognising that there is a lot more work to be 
done to have more diversity in our senior 
management, these actions will help to realise 
the benefits of greater diversity now as well as 
provide new development opportunities for 
the individuals involved.
Innovation
New product innovation is a vital component 
of creating organic growth and enables 
Halma companies to increase revenue 
and profitability through market share 
gain and market expansion.
Our investment in new product 
development increased substantially, 
with R&D spend up by 19% to £41.2m 
(2015: £34.6m) representing 5. 1% of 
Group revenue (2015: 4.8%). All sectors 
increased investment, most notably the 
Medical sector which grew R&D spend 
from 4.0% to 4.5% of sector revenue -  
an absolute rise of 32%.
The return on investment of new product 
development is assessed monthly by  
each Halma company, both in terms of  
their previous track record and future 
expectations, including the proportion of their 
revenue generated from products launched 
in the past three years. All measures can  
vary significantly from company to company, 
depending on the characteristics of their 
market and the effectiveness of their new 
product development effort. Since 2013, the 
average contribution to Group revenue from 
products launched in the past three years 
has been around 22% although the individual 
company performances range from single 
digit to over 50%.
Halma’s commitment to innovation extends 
beyond new product development and we 
are continuing to develop more collaboration 
between our businesses as this is a valuable 
way in which we can build a more innovative 
culture. We foster collaboration by providing 
opportunities for our senior managers to build 
a network of connections across Halma 
including the biennial Halma Innovation 
and Technology Exposition (HITE), our 
management training programmes and 
an internal social networking platform.
The best examples of innovation in Halma 
are recognised each year through the Halma 
Annual Innovation Awards. This year’s first 
prize was won by HWM-Water for their 
PermaNET+ remote water leak monitoring 
and pinpointing system. The runners-up 
were Ocean Optics, for a new automated 
alignment and calibration process for their 
Flame product platform, and SunTech 
Medical for their Vet20 product, which 
provides non-invasive blood pressure 
readings on animals, without the need 
for sedation.
• In February 2016, Halma acquired  
CenTrak Inc., based in Pennsylvania,  
USA. CenTrak manufactures sensors and 
proprietary communication technology 
providing real-time location monitoring of 
people and assets in healthcare facilities. 
This is a new market niche for our Medical 
sector, although many elements of 
CenTrak’s core technology are similar to 
that used widely in other Halma sectors. 
The cash consideration paid was 
US$140m (£97m) and there is no future 
consideration contingent on performance. 
CenTrak is Halma’s largest ever acquisition.
CONTINUED STRATEGIC 
INVESTMENT TO DRIVE GROWTH
Halma’s decentralised organisational 
structure gives our diverse range of 
businesses considerable management 
autonomy, albeit within a well-defined 
strategic and control framework. These 
are underpinned by the Halma Values of 
Achievement, Innovation, Empowerment 
and Customer satisfaction.
We have a clear view of how each business 
can benefit from being part of a larger group 
and make targeted central investments in 
three key areas to leverage this collective 
benefit: Talent development, Innovation 
and International expansion.
Increasingly, these central investments are 
being supplemented by sector-led initiatives 
targeted at the specific challenges and 
opportunities within each individual sector. 
Examples include the Medical sector 
introducing reward plans for increased 
collaboration and the Process Safety 
sector establishing a Brazil hub to build 
a stronger presence in South America. 
Progress in Halma’s three key areas of 
strategic investment included the following: T otal Shareholder Return (three years)
Mar-2016 Mar-2015 Mar-2013
200%
175%
150%
125%
100%
75%
50%
Mar-2014
■ Halma ■ FTSE 250 ■ FTSE 350 Electronic & Electrical Equipment
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
Our decentralised 
organisational  
structure gives our 
diverse range of 
businesses considerable 
management autonomy 
within a well-defined 
strategic and control 
framework.
International expansion
Halma has continued to invest and 
encourage our businesses to accelerate 
growth in international markets. Increasingly, 
Halma companies in similar markets are 
working together more closely to coordinate 
their resources and build greater critical  
mass in key growth regions. For example,  
our ophthalmic diagnostic device businesses 
within the Medical sector are building a single 
sales organisation in China to carry products 
from multiple Halma companies.
The Halma hubs in China and India remain a 
focal point and catalyst for growth. In India, we 
have relocated our Head Office to Bengaluru, 
while retaining commercial offices in Mumbai 
and Vadodara. We have plans to expand 
into Chennai and Delhi in the medium term. 
In China, our R&D subsidy programme has 
helped 15 Halma companies hire 33 new 
engineers in the last three years to develop 
new products for the local market. This 
programme was refined and re-launched in 
April 2016 as we continue to see local product 
development as critical to sustained growth 
and building a strong market share.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 
AND SUSTAINABILITY IS AT 
HALMA’S CORE
Halma’s core strategy is to protect life and 
improve the quality of life for people worldwide. 
Our primary market growth drivers mean 
that Halma companies operate in markets 
in which their products contribute positively 
to the wider community. These market 
characteristics and our commitment to health 
and safety, the environment and people 
development are reflected in the values held 
by our employees and our operating culture. 
We review our responsibility and sustainability 
reporting in accordance with best practice. 
Legislative changes, particularly concerning 
the environment and bribery and corruption, 
have provided an opportunity to review our 
procedures in these important areas and 
ensure they are accessible, compliant and 
firmly embedded within our business.
A detailed report on Sustainability is on  
pages 48 to 53.
OUTLOOK
The resilience and diversity of our markets, 
long-term growth drivers and business  
model give us confidence that we can 
continue to grow in today’s varied market 
conditions. During the year, Halma has  
made four acquisitions and further increased 
investment for organic growth through Talent 
development, Innovation and International 
expansion. Since the period end, order intake 
has continued to be ahead of revenue and 
order intake last year. We expect to make 
further progress in the year ahead in line with 
our expectations.
Andrew Williams 
Chief Executive
1
 See Highlights
2 
See note 1 to the Accounts
