 H&T GROUP PLC
02
CHAIRmAN’S STATEmENT
IntroductIon
The Group has traded well against a challenging 
backdrop. The significant cash flows have 
enabled reduced borrowings and steps have 
been taken to achieve a lower cost base. We 
are beginning to implement new strategies. 
We need to become more relevant to our 
customers through serving them from better 
locations and through effective use of new 
media. 
FInancIal PerFormance
The Group delivered profit after tax of £4.3m 
(2013: £4.9m) and diluted earnings per share  
of 11.78 pence (2013: 13.40 pence). Subject  
to shareholder approval a final dividend of  
2.7 pence per ordinary share (2013: 2.7 
pence) will be paid on 5 June 2015 to those 
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 8 May 2015. This will bring the  
full year dividend to 4.8 pence per ordinary 
share (2013: 4.8 pence).
The Group’s plan to improve its balance sheet 
strength has been successful with a net debt 
reduction of 53.1% to £9.7m (31 December 
2013: £20.7m). This reduction has lowered 
the risk in the business, but from this position 
we now need to develop a group of profitable 
products that reduces the impact of gold 
price volatility. We have seen a strong retail 
performance which partially addresses the 
profitability of the Group, but we need  
to develop new and more valuable product 
lines, including secured lending to generate  
a satisfactory return on capital.
regulatIon
The regulation of Consumer Credit moved 
from the Office of Fair Trading to the Financial 
Conduct Authority on 1 April 2014. The Group 
has obtained interim permission from the 
FCA and has submitted its application for full 
authorisation in February 2015. 
The Group is well prepared for the transition 
and we welcome the higher standards that this 
change will bring to our sector.
Strategy
We recognise the need to evolve our business 
model to address an intensely competitive 
environment, the declining footfall on UK high 
streets and the increasing use of the internet for 
commoditised goods and services. We need 
to develop a strong presence in the high footfall 
shopping malls of the UK, rather than the legacy 
of High Street locations that have been the main 
stay of the business. The negativity associated 
with the word “pawnbroking” can prevent us 
obtaining leases in some high footfall locations 
such as shopping malls. We need to look at 
new formats and branding for our business to 
attract a customer who would not use or enter 
a shop with a pawnbroking symbol or that shop 
front description. We will need to relocate stores 
where their location has a reducing footfall, to 
those places where it will grow. The combination 
of on-line presence, high visibility and an 
attractive range of products will be important. 
ProSPectS
The Group started on a programme to address 
all aspects of this developing strategy during 
2014. This included the creation of 39 retail 
stores, with the new branding ‘est1897’; these 
stores comprise 36 rebranded H&T pawnbroker 
stores and three new stores in shopping 
centres. This is being supported by the launch 
of a new range of online services both through 
internet and mobile channels. Good growth has 
been seen in the provision of foreign exchange 
as well as an improved retail offering. We will 
continue to review the product range to increase 
the profitability of stores and the use of different 
asset classes as collateral for consumers’ 
secured lending. 
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders 
I would like to thank everyone at H&T for the 
hard work and dedication through a year of 
significant change. 
Peter d mcnamara
Chairman
H&T Pawnbrokers has, unlike many in the sector , both survived 
and generated strong cash flows against a backdrop of a low gold 
price, significant changes in consumer behaviour and a far tighter 
regulatory regime. The challenge now is to implement strategies  
to reflect this different environment. ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
03
Strategic report
PERSONAL LOANS
Gross Profit  
£1.8m
 
Loan Book 
£3.1m
