 Whilst positive market conditions have no doubt contributed to
our good results this year, our marketing team has also been
successful at both encouraging existing clients to entrust us with
more of their wealth and attracting new clients into Vantage, our
fund supermarket and wrap platform, and discretionary
management services. In particular, the growth in assets in our
Vantage SIPP has been substantial and we anticipate this to be an
area of continued expansion in the future.  
Strong investment performance and the expansion of our team of
advisers have enabled us to substantially grow funds under
management in our multi-manager funds and our Portfolio
Management Service (PMS) during the year. To the credit of our
investment team our four multi-manager funds have performed
consistently well throughout the year with all funds achieving top
quartile performance within their respective peer groups over the
12 month period to the end of June 2007.
The success of our Corporate Solutions division was a major factor
in growing revenue from third party business. This division
continues to attract larger corporate clients. At the year end, there
were 77 pension schemes on our books which contained a
minimum of a hundred members, an increase of 43 per cent on
the previous year.  
On 15 May 2007 the Group floated on the London Stock
Exchange.  This was a momentous milestone in the life of
Hargreaves Lansdown. As predicted and hoped for, the increased
profile of the Group has already started to benefit the business.
We believe that the increased visibility of Hargreaves Lansdown as
a public company will afford both our corporate and individual
clients even greater comfort about dealing with us and entrusting
us with their savings.  We have enjoyed the dialogue with our new
shareholders and look forward to continuing it in the future.  Our
local profile has improved our ability to recruit staff and improved
the quality of applicants.  
Mike Evans, former Chief Operating Officer of Skandia UK
Limited, and Jonathan Bloomer, former Chief Executive of
Prudential plc, joined the board as non-executive directors in
August and September 2006 respectively.  Their knowledge and
experience in the financial services industry has already proved to
be of great assistance to the board and I am sure will be of even
greater benefit in the years ahead.  Both Mike and Jonathan sit on
the audit, remuneration and nomination committees with
Jonathan being the senior independent director chairing those
committees.  We are actively seeking a new non-executive director
to bring the board in line with recommended best practice.
A newly formed executive committee will be responsible for the
day to day running of the various divisions within the Group and
will liaise closely with the main board of directors in developing
the business strategy, managing risk and ensuring that we maintain
the culture and dynamism which has made Hargreaves Lansdown
successful to date.
The regulatory environment that we operate in is undergoing a
change towards a more principles based approach focused on
ensuring that investors are treated fairly. Hargreaves Lansdown
welcomes this move. Our business model and our success are built
on putting our clients first and providing the highest levels of
service. The regulatory environment is always changing and new
regulations stemming from the EU will take effect in the months
ahead. In addition, the Financial Services Authority is conducting
a Retail Distribution Review looking at the way the financial
services sector operates. We do not believe that any of these
changes will materially affect our business model.
The demographics of the country are such that people need to
save more.  As a business we are ideally situated to benefit from
any increase in savings and it is our intention to continue to
develop Vantage and our other services to improve our offering to
the private investor.  Our focus will be ‘more of the same’ in
seeking new clients with funds to invest, servicing existing clients
and encouraging them to transfer more of their assets onto our
platform.  We will continue to market strongly in this respect but
at the same time continue to keep a tight control on our
overheads to ensure that our margins are at least maintained and
hopefully improved.  We are of course reliant on investment
markets being stable in order to maintain and increase our assets
under administration but we believe that by endeavouring to offer
clients the best information and the best service at the best prices
our business will continue to grow.
Our employees are vitally important to us.  We seek to recruit and
train enthusiastic, intelligent employees and incentivise them
through a good remuneration structure to help grow the business.
At 30 June 2007 our staff numbers totalled 648.  2007 has been a
very busy time for everyone within the Group not only dealing
with the significant increases in business but also the additional
work involved with the flotation.  I would like to personally thank
everyone for all their hard work and effort.  Our success is down
to them.
We look forward to facing the exciting new challenges of life as a
listed company.
Stephen Lansdown
Chairman  
17 October 2007
Chairman’s statement
5
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 4
