 Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
Profit before tax increased by 20% from
£60.9 million to £73.1 million, and
turnover increased by 10% from £120.3
million to £132.8 million.  Our percentage
of revenue which is recurring in nature (i.e.
renewal commission, management fees and
interest) fell slightly to 70% compared to
72% for the previous year due in part to the
record volume of stockbroking deals
handled during the second half of the
financial year which increased the level of
transactional (non-recurring) income.  
Operating costs were well controlled
allowing our operating profit margin to
increase from 48.0% to 52.5%.  Underlying
diluted earnings per share have risen by 22%
to 11.0 pence compared to 9.0 pence for
2008.
During the year our assets under
administration increased from £11.1 billion
to £11.9 billion.  This includes £1.4 billion
of assets under our own management. 
Total assets under administration increased
by 7% in comparison to a decline in the
FTSE All-Share index of 24%.
Dividend
The performance of the Group has allowed
us to propose a final ordinary dividend of
4.229 pence per share increasing the total
ordinary dividends up to 7.294 pence per
share for the year.  This total dividend
payout equates to 65% of post tax profits.  
As in previous periods we have reviewed our
cash requirements going forward and are
pleased to propose a special dividend of
2.807 pence per share.  This equates to a
further 25% of post tax profits taking the
total dividend payout for the year to 10.101
pence per share.  We remind shareholders
that any special dividend in future years will
depend upon our future cash requirements
and therefore will vary.
Staff
The culture of Hargreaves Lansdown is to
provide our clients with the best
information, the best service and the best
prices.  This has borne fruit and we continue
to attract new clients and retain existing
clients.  Everything we do would not be
possible without the hard work of all our
staff and I should like to pay special tribute
to them.  Without their efforts we would be
unable to produce such a performance.
Board Changes
Since flotation, to comply with the
Combined Code of Corporate Governance I
have worked towards separating my
Chairman’s duties with my Executive
responsibilities and therefore will be
stepping down as Executive Chairman of the
Group at the Annual General Meeting
(AGM), with effect from 1 December 2009.
I shall however remain on the Board as an
Executive Director.  
Mike Evans, who has served enthusiastically
as a Non-Executive Director for the Group
for the last three years, has agreed to seek
election at the AGM as Non-Executive
Chairman with effect from 1 December
2009. His knowledge and experience have
proven invaluable to the Board.  This should
stand him in good stead to develop the
Chairman’s role.
Tracey Taylor was appointed as Group
Finance Director on 24 November 2008
having previously been Group Accounting
Director and a member of the Executive
Committee.  Tracey who has been with us
for ten years has stepped seamlessly into the
role justifying our policy of promoting
internally.  
During September 2009, Jonathan Bloomer
will come to the end of his three year term as
Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director, and I am pleased to report that he
has showed a willingness to continue in this
role for a further three years and will seek re-
election at the 2009 AGM. 
Chairman’s Statement
5
“Everything we do
would not be possible
without the hard work
of all our staﬀ and I
should like to pay
special tribute to them.
Without their eﬀorts
we would be unable to
produce such a
performance.”
I am pleased to report that the Group has had another successful year which is very satisfying in view of the
adverse market conditions.
The Board is proposing
a ﬁnal ordinary
dividend of 4.229
pence (2008: 2.42p)
and a special dividend
of 2.807 pence (2008:
2.324p)
Dividends per share
Total dividends have 
increased by 29%
2009: 10.101 pence
2008: 7.809 pence Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Executive Management 
Team Changes
My congratulations go to Ian Hunter
(Investment Marketing Director) and Nick
Marson (Vantage and Broking Operations
Director) on their appointments which took
effect from 1 July 2009.  Both Ian and Nick
have been with the Group for twelve years
having developed their expertise and
knowledge during that time.
We recognise that not all appointments can
be made internally and welcome Ian Gorham
to the Group as Chief Operating Officer with
effect from 1 September 2009.  Ian joins us
from Grant Thornton UK LLP where he was
a partner and head of the firm’s Financial
Services Group having built this up over a
period of six years.  Prior to this he ran the
Regulatory Practice in the South West for a
major consultancy.  We all look forward to
working with Ian and benefiting from his
knowledge of the financial services market. 
Regulation
Further details of the much awaited Retail
Distribution Review were issued by the
Financial Services Authority in June 2009.
As with all reviews there are still areas to be
clarified but we are delighted that in the
main it has vindicated our business model as
the one the whole industry should follow.
We do not feel there are any areas of the
review which cause ourselves any major
issues and we look forward to continuing to
work with our regulators to improve the
standards within our industry.  
Offices
On 22 July 2009 we signed the lease for the
occupation of our offices at One College
Square, Bristol (Harbourside).  The signing
of the lease signalled the start of the fit-out
works and although we have set a very tight
timetable we still anticipate being in
occupation by the end of January 2010.  
Conclusion
Peter Hargreaves in his Chief Executive
report has highlighted the performance of
the Group and the outlook for the future.
The Board of directors, together with the
Executive Committee, has operated
efficiently and with strength of purpose
during the year and I would like to thank all
my fellow directors for their contribution.
Our trading performance demonstrates the
resilience of our business model.  The
development of our Board, Executive
Committee and subsidiary Boards illustrates
the strength and depth of the management
team and our desire to develop the Group as
a public listed company.
Stephen Lansdown 
Chairman 
22 September 2009
6
