 It is with pleasure that we present our first set of results as a
publicly quoted company.  The Group has had a successful year’s
trading. This performance is reflected in both underlying
operating profit before tax (and exceptional items) which
increased by 67 per cent from £24.3 million to £40.7 million and
revenue which increased by 34 per cent from £73.5 million to
£98.8 million. The percentage of revenue which is recurring in
nature (i.e. renewal commission, management fees and interest)
increased from 61 per cent to 65 per cent.  Operating costs  were
well controlled during the year and our underlying operating
profit margin increased from 33 per cent to 41 per cent.
Underlying diluted earnings per share have risen by 52 per cent to
6.4 pence compared with 4.2 pence for 2006. 
During the year our total assets under administration increased by
67 per cent from £6.1 billion to £10.2 billion. This includes £1.3
billion of assets also under our management, an increase of 86 per
cent on the previous year. The growth in assets under administration
and management has arisen through a combination of strong new
business volumes and market growth.  The most relevant index,
the FTSE All Share, increased during the period by 15 per cent.
As part of the flotation of the Group, shares in Hargreaves
Lansdown plc feature strongly on the Vantage platform this year
as exceptional inflows and exceptional levels of market growth. At
30 June 2007, the value of  Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares on
the Vantage platform was £805 million. 
Review
Our year started with nervousness caused by the setback in the
market in the spring of 2006.  Consequently we started our year
concentrating on gathering assets and through the media of our
newsletters, supporting clients and making suggestions.  
There were a few highlights during the early part of our year such
as the very successful launch of an innovative third party fund
which incorporated the best ideas of several eminent fund managers.
We were also pleased that the predictions that A-Day in the pensions
arena would be a one off marketing opportunity were unfounded
as we saw our pension volumes continue to grow strongly.  
The summer months always bring about client malaise as they
occupy themselves with holidays and other things conducive to
the glorious summer of 2006.  We were however encouraged
during the first part of our financial year that investors were
seeking information, responding to our advertising and exploring
our website, which was completely revamped and relaunched in
November 2006.  
In the first six months of the year we performed well in
comparison to the general market place.  Confidence was boosted
by buoyant demand for our own multi-manager funds, our
Portfolio Management Service (PMS), Self Invested Personal
Pensions (SIPPs) and some interesting investments that were
launched during the period. The second half of the year started
exceptionally well with a number of divisions reporting record or
near record volumes.    
Renewed investor confidence encouraged us to market strongly
during the third quarter and we ran an extra newsletter during
that period, a decision which turned out to be extremely
fortuitous.  Many of our competitors submitted their final ISA
season offerings just as the market fell significantly in February.  It
enabled us to hold our final ISA offering until we could see some
stability in the marketplace, and when submitted it had more
relevant comment as investor confidence was improving.  
Increased speculation regarding our float helped to generate
interest in our services and provided a boost to our advertising.
Our year closed with the prospect of marketing to many new
prospective clients obtained during our April and May advertising
campaign.  
There has been significant growth in our assets under
administration on our Vantage platform and assets under
management.  We were particularly pleased with how all sectors of
the firm coped with the exceptional levels of business and also
capitalised on the circumstances.  Assets held in Vantage at the
year end included £2.2 billion invested in PEPs, £2.8 billion
invested in ISAs, £1.4 billion invested in SIPPs and £2.7 billion
invested in our Fund and Share Account. Our multi-manager
funds reached £1 billion at the year end, including £0.5 billion
administered through Vantage. 
Group strategy
Going forward our strategy will be “more of the same” in that we
shall continue to provide first class services to our clients, respond
to market conditions and innovate in our approach to marketing
and product design.  We shall continue to talk to new and
potential clients about their investments whatever the prevailing
market conditions might be. We have not identified any new
potential businesses and we are not seeking to acquire any
businesses.  We shall continue to geographically expand our
Financial Practitioners division since we have established that
many clients would like a “local” representative.    
Our challenges for the year ahead are to continue improving our
website where we believe the future of the financial services
industry lies and further enhancing our platform through in-house
development.  We have boosted our marketing team which we
believe to be one of the most enthusiastic and talented marketing
teams in financial services.  We expect SIPPs to become an ever
more important part of our client offering but we are also
encouraged by our Portfolio Management Service as clients seek
more assistance in managing their investment portfolios.  
We have finally established from where we shall be operating in a
couple of years time which should enable us to bring all our
people together under one roof, something which we believe will
benefit the firm immensely.
Chief Executive’s Review
6
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 5 Outlook
Hargreaves Lansdown is a leading provider of investment
management products and services to the private investor in the
UK, and 2007 saw us consolidate this position with strong growth
and excellent results. 
I am mindful that since our year end we have seen huge turmoil in
the world’s stock markets. The market is still uncertain of the
extent of the problems caused by the United States’ sub-prime
lending market. Although Hargreaves Lansdown has no direct
exposure to this area, sentiment is likely to cause nervousness in
markets and it is impossible to know when, if any recovery will be
permanent or sustainable.  
We have always been rewarded by continuing to support our
clients in turbulent times and believe we emerge from these
periods stronger and with improved market share.  A high
proportion of assets held in Vantage are within tax wrappers and
our cash option allows clients to shelter from the market without
withdrawing capital and losing potential tax benefits. 
I would also draw our shareholders’ attention to the fact that we
do have significant businesses in areas far less affected by the
market.  We have a successful corporate pensions division, a
leading SIPP product and a market leading annuity business.  We
are also seeing an increase in demand for advice from our team of
Financial Practitioners.       
The long-term fiscal and demographic trends remain positive for
our business. We are still encouraged by the flow of ideas, the
quality of our research and the number of letters we receive from
our clients praising all aspects of our service.  It is our company
policy to put clients first, a philosophy which has been the prime
reason for the firm flourishing.  We approach the new year
determined that we shall continue to grow the business and
profits whilst at the same time hoping that we return to more
benign markets, which should in time repair investor confidence.
Peter Hargreaves
Chief Executive Officer
17 October 2007
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
7
HL Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2007
Annual Report 10.07 inside:annual report inside  18/10/07  16:18  Page 6
