 Chairman’s Statement
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 5
BACK TO CONTENTS
“Our staﬀ remain our most
important asset and everything
we do would not be possible
without their hard work and
commitment.”
The Board is proposing a ﬁnal
ordinary dividend of 0.58 pence
(2009: 4.229p) and a special
dividend of 1.7 pence (2009:
2.807p)
Total dividends have 
increased by 18%
2010: 11.88 pence
2009: 10.101 pence
Profit before tax increased by 18% from
£73.1 million to £86.3 million, and turnover
increased by 20% from £132.8 million to
£159.0 million.  Our percentage of revenue
which is recurring in nature (i.e. renewal
income, management fees and interest) rose
slightly to 72% compared to 70% for the
previous year, driven by the significant
increase in assets under administration
which in turn has driven renewal income
and management fees. 
Operating costs continue to be well
controlled allowing our adjusted operating
profit margin to increase from 53.6% to
56.5%.  Adjusted diluted earnings per share
have risen by 23% to 13.9 pence compared
to 11.3 pence for 2009.
During the year our assets under
administration increased from £11.9 billion
to £17.5 billion.  This includes £1.8 billion
of assets under our own management.  Total
assets under administration increased by
47% compared to an increase in the FTSE
All-Share index of 17%.
Dividend
The performance of the Group has allowed
us to propose a final ordinary dividend of
0.58 pence per share increasing the total
ordinary dividends up to 8.58 pence per
share for the year.  This total dividend
payout equates to 65% of post tax profits.  
As in previous periods we have reviewed our
cash requirements going forward and are
pleased to propose a special dividend of 1.70
pence per share.  This equates to a further
25% of post tax profits when the special
interim dividend of 1.6 pence per share is
added and this takes the total dividend
payout for the year to 11.88 pence per share.
We remind shareholders that any special
dividend in future years will depend upon
our future cash requirements and therefore
may vary.
Staﬀ
Hargreaves Lansdown is in business to help
clients make more of their money by
providing the best information, the best
service and the best prices.  We have
continued to attract new clients and retain
existing clients. Our staff remain our most
important asset and everything we do would
not be possible without their hard work and
commitment.
Oﬃces
On 15 February 2010, we successfully
moved into our new offices, One College
Square South, Bristol; the culmination of
many months of hard work by a number of
our staff. The new working environment is of
a high quality, befitting of one of the larger
employers in the city.
Board changes
Over the course of the year there has been a
lot of focus on ensuring an orderly process of
senior management succession as the
Company enters the next stage of its
development.  As a result, a number of
changes have now been made to the
membership of the Board.
As had previously been announced, Stephen
Lansdown stepped down as Chairman on 1
December 2009 and it was a great honour
for me to become non-executive Chairman
the same day.  Having overseen the
successful office move, Stephen focused on
providing support and challenge to all parts
of the business before taking a sabbatical in
the summer months.  The Board has agreed
with Stephen that the most appropriate way
to provide ongoing challenge and support is
as a non-executive director.  Therefore on 26
August 2010 he stepped down as an
executive director and was appointed as a
non-executive director (although due to his
previous executive role we accept that we
cannot deem him to be independent).
Ian Gorham joined the business in
September 2009 as Chief Operating Officer.
He very quickly demonstrated his
capabilities and we recognised his potential
to be a future leader of the business.  Peter
Hargreaves had indicated his desire to step
down as Chief Executive at the appropriate
time, but remain heavily involved in the
business.  Therefore on 26 August 2010, we
were delighted to confirm the appointment
of Ian Gorham as an executive director, a few
days before taking on the position of Chief
Executive. 
I am pleased to report that the Group has had another successful year which is very satisfying in view of
the economic uncertainty both in the UK and indeed globally. Chairman’s Statement
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 6
BACK TO CONTENTS
Earlier in the year, to bring more balance to
the Board, the Nominations Committee
decided to appoint a further non-executive
director.  Rather than engage a firm of
headhunters, it was decided that we would
advertise the position to a subset of our
clients. An initial mailing of some 8,000
clients resulted in approximately 150 high
quality applications. Following the selection
criteria laid down by the Nominations
Committee, and after two rounds of
interviews, we were delighted to appoint
Chris Barling to the Board on 26 August
2010. Chris is currently CEO of Actinic, a
privately owned software company. We
believe Chris’ extensive IT experience will
bring greater breadth of skills to the Board.
These appointments mean we now have a
Board of eight directors, of whom three are
executives, four are non-executives, and
myself as non-executive Chairman. We
believe it is a strong board to support the
new Chief Executive, and importantly retains
the ongoing input of the two founders who
remain the largest shareholders in the
Company.
Peter Hargreaves and Stephen Lansdown
founded this great company way back in
1981 and have personally overseen its
development into a highly profitable, client
oriented, public listed company. I would like
to thank them both for their enormous
contribution to the Company and am
delighted that they will continue to provide
guidance to the Company in their respective
new roles. 
During the year, Simon Power decided to
step down as Company Secretary to focus on
his role within the Finance team. I would like
to thank Simon for his valued work during
his time as Company Secretary. On 30 March
2010, we were delighted to appoint Judy
Matthews as the new Company Secretary.
Regulation
The final details of the Retail Distribution
Review should be issued by the Financial
Services Authority in the autumn of this year,
following a consultation paper issued in
March 2010 which focused specifically on
platforms such as our Vantage service. This
contained some proposals that may
necessitate significant change for our
industry.  We have sought to make our views
known through this consultation process and
await the final outcome with interest. We
believe our business has little to fear from
sensible regulatory change and indeed is well
placed to take advantage of the more
transparent and competitive market
conditions that the RDR is intended to
introduce. We will continue however to be
vigilant in monitoring the impact of the new
proposed regime for platforms as more details
emerge.  The new Coalition Government has
announced changes to the Financial Services
Authority and this will have an impact on
how we are regulated in the future and we
need to watch this very carefully.
Conclusion
Peter Hargreaves in his Chief Executive report
has highlighted the performance of the Group
and the outlook for the future.  The Board of
directors, together with the Executive
Committee, has operated efficiently and
diligently during the year and I would like to
thank all my fellow directors for their
contribution.  Our trading performance
demonstrates the resilience of our business
model.  The continued development of our
Board, Executive Committee and subsidiary
Boards illustrates the strength and depth of
the management team and the robustness of
our corporate governance. 
Michael Evans
Chairman
8 September 2010
