 These figures should be reviewed in the light
of the economic background.  Within this
accounting period the UK financial system
was close to breaking point, a situation
which resulted in the loss of public
confidence in all parts of the financial sector.
Investment businesses suffer during any
inclement investment climate.  Similarly
these conditions destroy investor
confidence.  The FTSE 100 Index at the
financial year end, 30 June 2009, was
approximately 40% lower than its peak at the
beginning of the millennium 9½ years prior.
A bear market not experienced since the
1930s.  
The FTSE All-Share Index is probably the
most representative of the assets that we
hold, and that index was some 24% lower at
the year end than it had been at the start of
our financial year.  This has a seriously
deleterious effect on the assets on which we
derive much of our earnings.  This was on
the back of a decrease in the All-Share Index
of 16% in the previous year ended 30 June
2008.  It was difficult to find anywhere
where investors could have made money
during the accounting period under review,
other than gilts and overseas government
bonds (where on the back of sterling’s
decline UK investors enjoyed a currency
bonus too).  Fortunately our clients had
negligible exposure to property, which on
the whole would have done worse than
almost any equity investments during that
period.  When you judge our trading results
in this light we can justly claim to be proud
of our performance.  
Outlook and Strategy
Twelve months ago we felt the outlook for
markets was gloomy and from the current
levels things don’t look much better today.
The only certainty is that we must be twelve
months nearer the revival of markets than
we were a year ago.  We think investors are
shell-shocked and most believe they already
have enough invested to benefit if this
market rally is sustained.  
Our strategy will therefore be no different
than it has been for most of this decade.
Rather than solely asking our clients to
commit new money we are continuing to
encourage existing clients to transfer the
remainder of their assets into Vantage
(Vantage is our investment platform which
holds and values clients’ investments giving
them a first class administration system for
managing their portfolios) and to find new
clients who will transfer their existing
investments into Vantage.  Investors can
transfer their ISAs, SIPPs and investments
held outside those tax wrappers.
One material loss of income will be the
return we make on cash balances.  This was
tailing off during the financial year under
review but the current financial year will
bear the brunt of this loss of revenue. 
A positive point is that low interest rates are
also causing savers to consider other homes
for their deposits which should eventually
benefit us.  Similarly the population has
once again become a net saver.  Initially this
will manifest itself in paying down debt but
will eventually result in investment.
The economic climate will affect all parts of
our business.  However as more and more
investment advisory businesses cease to
trade or fail to service their clients properly,
we benefit as investors seek our services.  We
believe that this is resulting in us improving
our market share.  Internally the ideas flow
has not subsided and our team remains
enthusiastic and motivated.  We should be
able to capitalise on the malaise within most
of our competitors.  It is interesting to note
that a major source of leads for new clients is
the result of referrals from existing clients.
Many businesses in our sphere view the
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) as a
threat on the horizon.  We count ourselves
fortunate that we could comply with most of
the provisions of the RDR immediately, and
the few exceptions without much effort or
cost.  We are therefore positive and believe
that when the confidence in the markets
becomes more sustained, we are as well
placed as any business in our sphere and
considerably better positioned than the
majority.
Summary
A significant portion of our earnings is based
on the value of our clients’ investments at
the end of each month.  On these dates in
the year under review the average level of
the FTSE 100 was approximately 4490.
Currently the index stands at 5134 (as at
21/09/09).  Should the market remain at
these levels or improve this will go some way
towards offsetting our reduced return on
cash deposits.  
We continue to capture market share and we
are well positioned for the RDR.  We have
been vigilant in containing recurring costs
and my team are still showing the innovative
flair they have exhibited over the years.  We
are seeing definite signs that the citizens of
the UK have a more positive attitude
towards saving.  We are a market leader in
ISAs, and the increased ISA allowance will
certainly benefit the group.  
The year ahead will be a challenging one but
I have every confidence that the directors
and staff of Hargreaves Lansdown will be
more than up to that challenge.
Peter Hargreaves 
Chief Executive Officer 
22 September 2009
Hargreaves Lansdown Plc | Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2009 7
Chief Executive’s Statement
We are pleased to present our ﬁnal results for the year ended 30 June 2009.
