 Chief Executive’s Statement  
Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010 7
BACK TO CONTENTS
Turning the clock back twelve months we
entered this year under review with more
trepidation than for many years.  The
government were doing the only thing they
knew; trying to spend us out of our
problems.  Interest rates were historically
low and the recession was a constant worry.
The stock market was 33% lower (FTSE All-
Share) than it had been at the turn of the
millennium, and doom and gloom
abounded. 
The only glimmer of light at the end of a very
long tunnel was that low interest rates were
driving investors to examine other forms of
income producing assets.  We were also
seeing increasing interest in our services and
for that we would thank our existing clients
who willingly extolled the virtues of our
service supplementing the efforts of my
excellent marketing team.
There have been two significant highlights
during the year.  The first has been the
unprecedented amount of new business.  In
almost every part of the firm we have seen
substantial increases in volumes.  Indeed
during the year we did top one million
stockbroking deals.  
The other area which was encouraging was
the buoyancy of stock markets, which saw
the FTSE All-Share index rise to a high of
2989.13 in April 2010 from just 2172.08 on
1 July 2009 (the beginning of our accounting
period).  The level of the market is critical for
our earnings.
Outlook and strategy
It is always difficult to forecast the coming
year when the time I write this statement is
during the summer months which
historically are always quieter. This year is
no exception. There are however many
things that encourage us for the coming year.
First of all our new Corporate Vantage
proposition is being very well received in its
marketplace.  This enables us to put another
piece in our jigsaw puzzle ensuring that all
our earnings are on a similar basis.
Elsewhere we have restructured our
Financial Practitioners division which
means we are probably ahead of the game in
preparation for the Retail Distribution
Review which seems to be paralysing most of
the rest of the financial services industry.
Most encouraging of all is the number of new
clients who find their way to our door, or
rather more precisely to our website.  The
increase in the UK’s savings ratio is a cause
for optimism.  Whilst this ratio has been
mainly affected by people paying down debt,
eventually some of those increased savings
are likely to end up with us.  
A year ago I warned that the year ending
June 2010 would see a substantial reduction
of income as a result of the low interest rate
environment.  That situation has not
changed but in the forthcoming year we will
be comparing those earnings with a similar
low potential year of earnings due to the
likely continuation of low interest rates.
I could not review this year without
mentioning our new office.  I must applaud
our IT team and all the other members of
staff who worked to make the office move so
painless.  We are very proud of our new
office.  It is wonderful that once more I have
the opportunity to see all the staff every day
and being under one roof we have already
generated new ideas as well as savings and
believe there are many more that we shall
establish over the year.
Summary
I suspect the problems that we can foresee at
the moment are less critical than the ones we
envisaged a year ago.  At that time we faced a
significant loss of income through lower
interest rates, and the office move was in
front of us.  Today we are completely settled
in our new home and we have found
recruitment not only easier than ever before
but the quality of our recruits is excellent.
We also  have the advantage of significantly
higher assets under administration on which
we earn most of our income, although as a
significant portion of our earnings are based
on the value of our clients’ investments at
the end of each month our results going
forward will be affected by market
performance.
My new role
I shall be stepping down as Chief Executive
on 2 September 2010 and I am delighted to
hand on that role to the very safe pair of
hands of Ian Gorham.  It is also gratifying to
know that right throughout the firm every
senior position is covered by at least one
very able understudy. 
I have enjoyed being Chief Executive of
Hargreaves Lansdown over the years.  The
business is my life’s work and the only thing
I can do now is to assure both clients and
investors that I have not handed on this
position lightly.  Ian Gorham is I believe the
right man for this job.  Indeed the business
has changed so much that it now needs
different skills, ones that Ian possesses in
abundance. I must thank everyone in the
firm who has worked with me over the years
and helped me make Hargreaves Lansdown
the successful and prosperous business it is
today.
I shall remain as a Director of Hargreaves
Lansdown, although I will be reducing my
workload to 3 to 4 days a week.  My passion
has always been in ensuring client literature
and marketing initiatives are the best they
could possibly be; therefore my focus will be
on providing challenge to ensure we keep
the highest possible standards in these
important areas. 
Peter Hargreaves 
Executive Director
8 September 2010
We are pleased to present our ﬁnal results for the year ended 30 June 2010.
