 7 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
CHAIRMAN’S 
STATEMENT
Strong underlying performance in the face of known headwinds.
I have great pleasure introducing our Annual 
Report for the year ended 30 June 2015 in which 
we announce a solid set of financial results.  
Our asset gathering abilities have meant that 
despite periods of low investor confidence 
during the year, we have delivered strong net 
new business flows underpinned by impressive 
numbers of net new clients. As a result, our 
assets under administration finished the year at 
a record level. Over the course of the year, we 
successfully navigated through the changes in 
the market place following the Retail Distribution 
Review. We have launched a number of new 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds, we 
were one of very few firms ready to offer clients 
the full range of pensions freedom on 6 April, 
and our new HL Portfolio+ service was very well 
received by our clients. At the end of the year we 
were delighted to announce the acquisition of up 
to 7 ,000 clients and £370m of assets from J. P . 
Morgan Asset Management. 
We have taken big strides forward over the year 
supporting our people, with much attention on 
career development and talent management.
We continue to be a financially strong 
organisation with a clean, robust balance sheet 
retaining a healthy margin over the regulatory 
capital adequacy requirements. Therefore 
after careful review of the company’s future 
cash requirements, the Board has decided 
to increase the total dividend for the year by 
paying a second interim ordinary dividend 
of 14.30p per share (2014: 15.39p) and an 
increased special dividend of 11.40p per share 
(2014: 9.61p) representing total dividends for 
the year of 33.0p per share (2014: 32.0p); an 
increase of 3%.
Good governance has always been at the 
heart of what we do. During the course of 
the year, we created a Board Risk Committee 
to supplement the Audit Committee and to 
focus on the forward looking aspects of risk 
management. Towards the end of the year, we 
commissioned an externally facilitated Board 
effectiveness review. Details of the agreed 
outcomes of the review are contained in our 
governance statement and can be found on 
pages 33 to 43. 
Over the course of the year, Peter Hargreaves 
and Tracey Taylor stepped down as Executive 
Directors. Peter co-founded this great business 
in 1981 and his knowledge and expertise will be 
much missed by the Board. We are delighted 
that he remains an employee allowing the 
business to continue to benefit from his wisdom. 
Tracey had been with Hargreaves Lansdown for 
15 years, serving as Chief Financial Officer for the 
last five years and was well respected in the City.   
On behalf of the Board I would like to thank both 
Peter and Tracey for their huge contribution to 
the business.
 In July 2015, we announced that we had 
selected a new independent Non-Executive 
Director whose appointment would be 
confirmed upon receipt of regulatory approval, 
and that Dharmash Mistry would be stepping 
down as a Non-Executive Director with effect 
from 31 August 2015.
In August 2015, we announced the 
appointment of Chris Hill as Chief Financial 
Officer who, subject to regulatory clearance, 
should be starting with us in March 2016. In 
the meantime we continue to benefit from the 
services of a very well qualified interim Chief 
Financial Officer.
Within the Executive Committee, we said 
goodbye to Nigel Bence after 22 years’ service 
contributing strongly to the risk, compliance 
and operational side of the business. In June 
2015, we welcomed Vikki Williams as Chief 
Operating Officer. 
We have delivered strong underlying 
performance across our business, but in the face 
of known headwinds, we report a reduction in 
profits. These headwinds include this year being 
the first full year following the introduction of 
the Retail Distribution Review, the changes in the 
regulations concerning client money, precluding 
the use of term deposits over 30 days, to 
the detriment of both our clients and our 
shareholders, and an unexpected increase in our 
FSCS levy, which we continue to see as nothing 
more than a tax on well run businesses.
The coming year will be a challenging one but we 
believe we are well set to return the Group to its 
growth trajectory, building on the new services 
and features delivered in 2015 to allow us to 
continue to thrive in our chosen markets. Our 
talented people remain integral to our success 
and, as always my gratitude goes to the Board 
and our staff for their continuing hard work, 
diligence and enthusiasm. 
Michael Evans – Chairman
16 September 2015
Michael Evans 
Chairman
STRATEGIC REPORT
