 10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"We remain 
focused on client 
service, which 
leads to client 
recommendation 
and contributes 
to our growth 
and success."
Chief Executive’s
review
We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 30 June 2013, 
once again reporting record revenues (+22%) and operating profits (+28%).  
The most salient features are the record 
growth in net new business and clients.  
Net new business was £5.1 billion (+59%) 
and we welcomed 76,000 net new clients 
(+69%).  
We remain focused on client service, 
which leads to client recommendation and 
contributes to our growth and success.  
96% of clients rated our services as good, 
very good or excellent. 
Our identified areas of growth: private and 
occupational pensions; our investment 
supermarket; and the internet continue to 
be strategic priorities.  The forthcoming 
Retail Distribution Review (RDR) is an 
opportunity to capitalise on our respected 
market position.  Our pioneering position 
in the growing popularity of self-directed 
investing is proving its worth.
Review of the economic background
Excessive debt is still a feature amongst 
countries, banks and individuals.  Some 
economic data with regard to employment 
figures in the UK and particularly the US is 
encouraging.  However, the volatile reaction 
of markets to any change of policy by 
institutions such as the US Federal Reserve 
acts as a reminder of the continuing fragile 
nature of the economic environment.  
Improvement in sentiment, allied to 
continued quantitative easing and low 
interest rates, served to improve stock 
markets during the year, with the FTSE All-
Share index advancing 14% in the year to 
30 June 2013.  
Hargreaves Lansdown's 2013 results
We report a record profit before tax of 
£195.2 million, up 28% on last year’s 
£152.8 million.  Our ability to attract and 
retain assets and clients has been key 
to our continued profitability.  We would 
single out our new pension incentives, 
improvements in the provision to look 
after family investments, the expansion of 
equity trading and the embracing of mobile 
technology as key successes.
We report a substantial 38% increase in 
client assets under administration from 
£26.3 billion to £36.4 billion. Net new 
business for the year was £5.1 billion (2012: 
£3.2 billion) with market movement and 
other factors adding a further £5.0 billion.  
An additional 76,000 investors (2012: 
45,000) became net new clients during the 
year taking total active clients for Vantage 
and advised services combined to 507,000. 
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive Officer     11 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Our Corporate Vantage service continues 
to expand, with 78 schemes live or in 
implementation (2012: 47).  This 66% 
increase in schemes has been accompanied 
by a 275% increase in Corporate Vantage 
assets, which have now passed the £350 
million mark.  Although this project remains 
long-term we remain delighted with the 
success to date.  
Our mission is to retain our position as the 
best place in the UK to buy investments.  
We are estimated to have 28% of the 
direct investing market (Source: The Direct 
Platform Guide Issue 3, February 2013), a 
market predicted to expand substantially, 
and over the last year we have increased 
assets, clients and market share.  For 
example, Hargreaves Lansdown saw an 
increase of 24.2% in Stocks and Shares 
ISA subscriptions in the 2012/13 tax year 
against the previous tax year, whereas UK 
overall Stocks and Shares ISA subscriptions 
increased by only 5.4% in the year.  
During the year we further improved our 
stockbroking services in nature and scope 
resulting in our share of the UK execution-
only stockbroking market rising to 19.4% 
(2012: 14.1% - source ComPeer XO Quarterly 
Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2013).  We 
also saw increased business in Investment 
Trusts, ETFs and passive funds.
None of this success would be possible 
without the confidence of our clients. 
We work hard to retain their loyalty by 
delivering high service levels and an 
efficient experience.
2013 market outlook
Whilst there is some indication that 
companies and economies have adapted 
to deal with the new paradigms of low 
interest rates and low growth, austerity is 
here to stay for some time.  A more positive 
environment may be developing, but short-
term volatility will remain, as markets react 
to any potential removal of stimuli.
Last year I wrote “we shall have to work 
hard to promote the benefits of investing.  
Reduced state support for the public means 
saving and investing is more important 
than ever.  There is little prospect of 
higher interest rates on cash in the near 
future so equities and bonds remain good 
alternatives for potential higher income…. 
equity markets also offer patient investors 
the opportunity for future capital growth.”  
The same remains true today.
Company outlook
During the year we consolidated our 
position as a leading FTSE 100 company.  
Our financial success has been built on 
continuing to deliver exceptional service, 
information and value.  As a profitable 
company with no debt we present the 
financial strength to give investors comfort.  
This also enables us to reinvest in our 
business and respond to competitor activity.
We continue to enhance our services and 
take advantage of the RDR, a regulatory 
development which requires short-
term operational systems changes but 
nevertheless offers opportunity.  As some 
Banks and financial advisers withdraw 
from the market we are presented with the 
opportunity to fill that gap profitably with 
our low-cost, efficient and trusted services.
In the 2014 financial year there will be 
some pressure on income earned from 
cash deposits, caused by the current 
extremely low interest rates. This has been 
exacerbated by the government’s “Funding 
for Lending” scheme which has reduced 
deposit rates significantly.
Throughout Hargreaves Lansdown’s history 
the cost of retail investing, including 
our own charges has reduced over time. 
We will continue to share the benefits of 
scale, technology and success with our 
clients in a virtuous circle. Our clients have 
previously rewarded us with increased 
volumes of business for our investment 
and we will work hard to encourage them to 
continue to do so.  For example, this year 
we have undertaken an exercise to improve 
discounts from investment providers, 
providing an additional edge in giving value 
to clients in return for their loyalty. 12 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
The impact of regulation
We expect regulatory change to continue, 
creating challenge and cost, but also 
opportunity. Hargreaves Lansdown has the 
scale, resources and innovative skills to 
cope with additional regulation which is an 
increasing barrier to entering or competing 
in our marketplace.
The Retail Distribution Review (RDR) 
remains a major theme.  We have benefited 
from “RDR Phase 1” introduced on 31 
December 2012 which relates mainly to 
financial advice.  Our advisory services 
were fee-based long before the rules were 
implemented.  New assets gathered from 
advice increased 42% to £786 million and 
our discretionary service, PMS, saw 31% 
growth in assets during the year.  The rules 
also encouraged a move to self-directed 
investment resulting in a flood of transfers 
of assets and clients gained from advisory 
businesses.  
The rules for “RDR Phase 2” were published 
on 26 April 2013.   The reforms require 
the unbundling of pricing on investment 
products and from 6 April 2014 fees for 
investment and platform services will be 
charged separately.  The rules are clear 
and we are confident about implementing 
these changes whilst maintaining our 
high service levels.  Our investment in 
negotiating lower charges for clients and 
our own investment in systems to facilitate 
low charges will result in the majority 
of clients paying less for their investing 
services in future.  We expect to introduce 
our new pricing model for funds in early 
2014.  
The impact of RDR Phases 1 and 2 will take 
a while to filter through. We do not expect 
RDR to cause any material disruption to 
profitability.  Provided the RDR changes 
are applied fairly to all companies, our 
proposition of a strong service and value 
offering to a loyal client base should help 
us to navigate the change well.  
The year saw two new regulators; the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and 
Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) which 
replaced the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA).  We are now regulated by the FCA 
and consider we have a constructive 
relationship with regulators.  Whilst it is 
early days, we consider the conduct of the 
FCA at policy level, particularly in seeking 
engagement and consumer-friendly 
outcomes, to be positive.  
We encourage the new regulators to seek 
practical outcomes that make a difference 
to investors and reward good practices, 
resisting foisting vast paperwork and 
warnings that confuse, serve little useful 
purpose and add cost for consumers.  
Hargreaves Lansdown has been successful 
to date despite regulation and government 
apathy in supporting investing.  It is easier 
to promote gambling, alcohol or pay-day 
loans to the UK public than the concept 
of investing in reputable investments or 
financing British companies to support 
our economy.  That needs to change.  
The FCA, working with the Treasury, has 
the opportunity to take a fresh look at 
achieving sensible regulation and make it 
easier to encourage the UK public to invest. 
Contributions to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) continue 
to be a burden.  We are supportive of a 
safety net for retail investors but we remain 
critical of the way the FSCS is funded and 
some of its supplementary activities.  
We continue to campaign for a rational, 
sensible, economic compensation scheme, 
including having direct dialogue with the 
FSCS over our concerns.
Corporate citizenship and improving 
investing for the UK public
We see our purpose to be a safe custodian, 
offer a great service and exercise the UK 
public’s buying power on their behalf. We 
work tirelessly and innovatively researching 
how to help people make the most of their 
money.  One aspect of achieving this goal is 
to campaign on behalf of the retail investor 
to make investing easier and cheaper.
During the year we have supported the 
campaign for annuity “shopping around”; 
supported amendments to the Pensions Bill 
to potentially increase pensioner income; 
worked with political parties to simplify 
auto-enrolment; supported the IMA 
campaign for clearer charges and backed 
the FCA in promoting good regulation.
Over six million children cannot take 
advantage of Junior ISAs because they are 
locked into the obsolete Child Trust Funds 
(CTFs) - where there are fewer providers, 
less choice and often poorer returns.  After 
lobbying from Hargreaves Lansdown and 
others the Government has now agreed 
to consult on what we hope to be the first 
step in allowing CTFs to be transferred to 
superior Junior ISAs.
We support improved portability of client 
assets, encouraging retail investors to 
move easily from old, obsolete investment 
plans to better value modern products.  
We seek to remain the friend of the retail 
investor, whatever their financial means.  
Our new RDR pricing structure has been 
specifically designed to be fair, attractive 
and excellent value for both small and large 
investors. 
Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its 
corporate taxes in full in the UK, and we 
shall continue to seek to be a role model 
for how financial services companies can 
deliver a great service, reputable behaviour 
and profitability in harmony with the UK 
public.
Conclusion
I would again like to thank our clients, 
shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.  
Their continued support, good humour and 
efforts have delivered exceptional results.   
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive Officer   
10 September 2013 13 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
Award winning 
services
The experience gained over 
four decades has allowed us 
to develop a service tailored 
precisely to the needs of private 
investors. 96% of our clients 
rate our service good, very good 
or excellent, we win numerous 
prestigious industry awards and 
our clients’ continued loyalty 
has created an enormously 
successful, and financially secure, 
blue chip company.
Our awards
For more information visit: 
www.hl.co.uk/about-us/our-awards
Best SIPP Provider 
Hargreaves Lansdown 
2007, 2008, 2009,
2010, 2011, 2012
Best Online Fund
Supermarket Provider
WINNER
Best User 
Experience
The Platforum
Corporate 
Platform/
Wrap provider 
of the year
Professional 
Pensions
Best Direct to 
Customer  
Platform
Aberdeen UK 
Platform Awards
Best Stocks 
& Shares ISA 
Provider
What Investment
Best Share/Fund 
Dealing Service
What Investment
Best Direct  
Platform
The Platforum
Best Financial 
Services plc
UK Stock Market 
Awards
Best SIPP 
Provider  
2007-2012
What Investment
Most effective 
pensions 
change strategy
Employee 
Benefits Awards
Best Online Fund 
Supermarket
Money AM Awards
