 8  Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chief Executive’s review
We are pleased to present our results for 
the year ended 30 June 2014, once again 
reporting record new clients, net new 
business and operating profits.   
The year to 30 June 2014 was characterised by continued substantial 
new asset and client flows into Hargreaves Lansdown’s services and 
successful adoption of extensive regulatory change.
The standout result was our record growth in net new business and 
clients.  Net new business was £6.4 billion (+25%) and we welcomed 
144,000 net new clients (+89% compared to last year).
Hargreaves Lansdown is the largest business of its type in the UK, with 
an estimated 32% of the direct investment market (Source: The Direct 
Platform Guide Issue 4, February 2014), up from 28% last year.
High service levels were rewarded not only through record new clients 
and assets, but also through a number of awards. We were delighted 
to be voted by Which? as the U.K.’s best and recommended investment 
platform.  Hargreaves Lansdown also won numerous other awards, 
including the Platforum’s best user experience and Management Today’s 
Britain’s Most Admired Company for Speciality and Other finance.
During the year the Company had to cope with major regulatory change, 
the most significant of which being the FCA’s Retail Distribution Review 
(“RDR”).  We are pleased we have been able to deliver this change 
successfully and delivered lower costs of investing for the majority of our 
clients at the same time. We now look forward to seeking to maintain 
our success in our growing marketplace.  
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN’S 2014 RESULTS 
We are pleased to report a record profit before tax of £209.8 million, up 
7% on last year’s £195.2 million. Our ability to attract and retain assets 
and clients by accessing key distribution channels and delivery of service 
excellence continues to be a primary driver of revenue growth.  Our 
revenue has also been enhanced by growth in complementary services 
such as stockbroking, fund management, discretionary management and 
pension drawdown services. 
We also report a 29% increase in client assets under administration from 
£36.4 billion to £46.9 billion. Net new business for the year was £6.4 billion 
(2013: £5.1 billion) with market movement and other factors adding a further 
£4.1 billion.  An additional net new 144,000 investors (2013: 76,000) 
became clients during the year, of which 42,000 related to IPOs, taking total 
active clients for Vantage and advised services combined to 652,000. 
Positive sentiment, allied to continued low interest rates, served to 
improve stock markets during the year, with the FTSE All-Share index 
advancing 9.4% in the year to 30 June 2014.  
The interest rate environment remains depressed, and therefore income 
from cash balances has reduced over the period.  Interest income 
should increase when rates recover.  However, in the short term we are 
experiencing reduced margins on cash balances which is the primary 
reason why asset and client growth exceeded expansion in profit.
A busy year of stock market activity has been beneficial to Hargreaves 
Lansdown in terms of adding new clients and new business. Of particular 
note was the Royal Mail flotation, where around 118,000 people, 
approximately 18.5% of the UK public who invested in Royal Mail shares, 
did so through Hargreaves Lansdown. We saw days when up to 60,000 
people tried to call Hargreaves Lansdown, and during the two key 
weeks of the Royal Mail flotation our website received 3.5 million hits. 
For a short period of time this put pressure on service levels. We have 
implemented changes as a result of this experience and service levels 
were improved as we dealt with the combined peak impact of the TSB 
flotation and Woodford fund launch in June 2014. 
Our Corporate Vantage service continues to expand, with 211 schemes 
live or in implementation (2013: 167).  This increase in schemes has 
been accompanied by a 59% increase in Corporate Vantage assets, 
which now stand at £984 million, and post year-end passed the 
£1 billion landmark.  Although this project remains long-term in nature 
we remain satisfied with the success to date.
2014/2015 MARKET OUTLOOK
There are welcome signs of a return to stronger economic trading 
conditions, and greater capitalisation of banks has served to enhance 
stability across most markets.  Whether this will translate into stronger 
stock markets remains to be seen.  In particular markets are likely to be 
influenced by the performance of Asian economies, particularly China, and 
markets generally remain subject to the influence of geopolitical events.
COMPANY OUTLOOK
The delivery of the changes required by the Retail Distribution Review 
engaged company resources and time for the best part of 18 months.  
Whilst regulatory intervention across the financial services industry 
shows no sign of reducing, with the retail distribution review having been 
delivered successfully we are now able to re-deploy staff and resources 
on improving the business.
