 8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"The culture at 
Hargreaves 
Lansdown has 
been built around 
looking after the 
interests of our 
clients."
I have great pleasure in announcing our excellent results for the year 
ending 2013. The Group has enjoyed record new business flows and 
record new clients leading to a substantial increase in profits.
Chairman’s statement
These results speak for themselves.  We 
have increased margins, profits, funds 
under management and improved client 
satisfaction.  Hargreaves Lansdown 
continues to be a financially strong 
organisation with a clean, strong, debt-free 
balance sheet retaining a healthy margin 
over the regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements; a source of comfort to our 
clients.  Therefore after careful review of 
the company's future cash requirements, 
paying due regard to planned strategic 
initiatives, the Board has decided to 
increase the dividend by paying a second 
interim ordinary dividend of 14.38p per 
share (2012: 10.65p) and an increased 
special dividend of 8.91p per share (2012: 
6.84p) representing total dividends for the 
year of 29.59p per share (2012: 22.59p); an 
increase of 31%.
The culture at Hargreaves Lansdown 
has been built around looking after the 
interests of our clients and our business 
is now entrusted with over £36 billion 
of the UK public’s savings.  Its security 
is a vital part of the Board’s duties and 
good governance is key. Our Corporate 
Governance statement on pages 34 to 
42 details our compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code.  
This year we also decided it was in the 
interests of shareholders to rotate our 
auditor.  We thank Deloitte for providing 
excellent service over the past 7 years, 
especially during the exciting times 
of our flotation in 2007.  Following a 
comprehensive tender process we shall be 
recommending the appointment of PwC at 
the Annual General Meeting. In line with 
governance guidelines we shall regularly 
review our auditor.  
Considerable Board time has been devoted 
to the sustainability of the business and 
the protection of our hard won reputation 
and standing. Our Board Effectiveness 
Review this year was particularly thorough, 
details of which are summarised on page 
36. The revisions we announced last year to 
our remuneration policy were well received 
by shareholders so we propose only minor 
amendments this year, details of which can 
be found on pages 45 to 54.
During the coming year, to meet new 
regulation in the form of the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) and the end of 
the commission era, we shall change the 
company’s pricing model.  This change will 
mainly be limited to clients holding fund 
investments.  We shall offer funds with 
lower annual management charges and at 
the same time introduce charges for the 
service we provide.  
Michael Evans
Chairman 9 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2013
www.hl.co.uk
"Our people are 
integral to our 
success".
I am confident that these new measures 
will be introduced smoothly and efficiently.  
Whilst it will represent a significant change, 
fortunately our clients are faithful and 
enthusiastic about our service and I am 
confident they will reward us by embracing 
the new charging structure.
This year there have been no changes to 
the Board other than Stephen Lansdown 
stepping down at last November’s AGM 
as previously announced.  Accordingly, 
we seek to add to the existing strength, 
knowledge and experience of our Board 
with the appointment of at least one new 
Non-Executive Director.
As ever, the coming year will be a 
challenging one but I have every confidence 
that we will take it in our stride. Our 
people are integral to our success and, 
as always my gratitude goes to the Board 
and the talented people we employ for 
their continuing hard work, diligence and 
enthusiasm. 
Michael Evans
Chairman
10 September 2013
Excellent, courteous, professional, 
knowledgeable. These are comments we 
frequently hear about our staff.  We know we 
provide an excellent service to our clients, 
and we know that this is important to them, 
because they tell us.  
Our helpdesks handle up to 6,000 calls each 
day.  When clients or prospective clients call 
us, their call is answered promptly – usually 
in less than 10 seconds – and they speak to 
a person, not an automated message. 
This ‘service culture’ exists in every part of 
our business.  The ability to deliver such 
consistently high levels of service is rarely 
found in the financial services industry. 
We believe there is a special culture in 
Hargreaves Lansdown.  It wasn't created, 
it just exists.  It must be nurtured.  When 
people visit our offices they feel it.  They find 
the atmosphere and culture magnetic.
