 8 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S 
REVIEW
HEADLINES
The year to 30 June 2015 was characterised 
by continued substantial new asset and client 
flows into Hargreaves Lansdown’s services, 
successful navigation of regulatory changes, and 
announcement and implementation of exciting 
new initiatives.
Despite known headwinds, profit before tax 
remained robust at £199.0 million for the year.  
Our business also continued to grow strongly.  
Net new business was £6.1 billion, representing 
organic growth in Assets Under Administration 
(AUA) of 13%. We welcomed 84,000 net new 
clients, leading to an increase in client numbers 
of 13% to 736,000.  
After a relatively muted first half of the year, 
the six months to 30 June 2015 exceeded both 
expectations for new business and last year, 
with net new business for the six months of 
£3.8 billion (first half of FY2015: £2.3 bn).  
Hargreaves Lansdown remains the largest 
business of its type in the UK, with 35.0% 
of the direct investment market at 31 March 
2015 (Source: Platforum*), up from 33.6% in 
September 2014. Concerns about potential 
competitive pressure have proved unfounded. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has continued to increase 
its share in major markets, including new flows 
into Stocks and Shares ISAs, up from 10.9% 
for the tax year to 5 April 2014 to 14.1% for the 
year to 5 April 2015, and UK execution only 
stockbroking** (up from 22.5% to 24.2%). Our 
new initiatives, particularly new fund launches, 
also proved very successful.
Continued high service levels were rewarded not 
only through record new clients and assets, but 
also continuing high asset retention of 93.4% 
(2014: 93.3%) and through receipt of many 
awards. Hargreaves Lansdown has won no less 
than 35 awards during the last two years. 
We are pleased to present our results for the year ended 
30 June 2015, once again reporting excellent growth in 
Assets Under Administration and clients.
Ian Gorham 
Chief Executive 9 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
HARGREAVES LANSDOWN’S 2015 RESULTS 
Profit before tax for the year was £199.0 million, 
a fall of 5% on last year’s £209.8 million. Whilst 
clients and assets again grew substantially, 
profit faced several headwinds – our decision 
to reduce charges for clients (reduced revenue 
by approximately £20m versus 2014); lower 
interest margins on client cash (reduced revenue 
by approximately £17m versus 2014); lower 
stock markets as the FTSE All Share fell 0.8% 
in the year; an unexpected temporary hiatus 
in foreign exchange trading income (c£3.5m); 
and a charge for a contribution to the Financial 
Services Compensation Scheme to cover the 
failings of less reputable companies (a cost of 
£4.4m versus £0.8m in 2014). The impact of 
these headwinds will be less pronounced, or in 
the case of the foreign exchange trading income 
will not be repeated at all, in 2016.
We also report an 18% increase in client assets 
under administration from £46.9 billion to £55.2 
billion. It is remarkable to note that in just 2 years 
client assets have grown by over 51%, from £36.4 
billion in June 2013 to £55.2 billion at 30 June 
2015. Net new business for the year was £6.1 bil-
lion (2014: £6.4 bn) with market movement and 
other factors increasing assets at year end by a 
further £2.2 billion. An additional net new 84,000 
investors (2014: 144,000) became clients during 
the year, taking total active clients for Vantage 
and advised services combined to 736,000. As 
many clients have more than one account, the 
total number of accounts held with Hargreaves 
Lansdown surpassed 1 million during the year.
In the year to 30 June 2014 the FTSE All-Share 
index advanced 9.4%, and we welcomed 
42,000 new clients related to Initial Public 
Offerings (IPOs), especially relevant in 2014 
being the extraordinary interest in the Royal 
Mail Share Offer. By comparison, the year to 
30 June 2015 saw the FTSE All Share fall 0.8%, 
weighed down at various points by factors such 
as the Scottish Independence referendum and 
fears of Greek exit from the Eurozone. Stock 
market performance always influences new 
business and revenue and IPO activity was also 
less prevalent. Set in this context the year’s 
asset gathering was excellent. Net new Vantage 
business in ISAs was £2.6 billion (2014: £2.2bn), 
up 18% and SIPPs £2.3 billion (2014: £2.1bn) up 
10%. Fund and Share account net new business 
was £1.1 billion (2014: £1.8bn), down 39%, aptly 
demonstrating the effect of markets and IPOs 
which tend to primarily affect investing appetite 
in non-tax wrapped general accounts.
Attracting and retaining assets and clients 
through key distribution channels, and delivery 
of service excellence continue to be primary 
drivers of growth. Client retention and 
satisfaction of 93.4% (2014: 93.3%) and 95.7% 
(2014: 92.3%) respectively are testament to our 
quality of service and value for money.
A key part of our strategy is to grow 
complementary capabilities including fund 
management, pension drawdown and other 
services that will provide clients with further “one 
stop shop” investing options, and hence increase 
AUA and clients and therefore revenue and profit.
Perhaps the most immediate success within 
this strategy has been our fund management 
expansion. During the year we launched HL UK 
Growth, HL Asia and Emerging Markets, and HL 
European Multi Manager funds, to add to our 
existing five Multi-Manager funds. In less than 
6 months, by 30 June 2015 the three new funds 
had attracted a combined £418 million of 
assets. These new launches allied to growth 
in our existing funds takes total funds under 
Hargreaves Lansdown’s management to £5.6 
billion (2014 £4.3bn). 
In June 2015 we also launched HL Portfolio+, a 
straightforward investing service based around 
our multi-manager funds and a simple online 
selection process. Although early days, interest 
in this service has been promising.
Our preparations made for the “pension 
freedoms” announced by the Chancellor during
the year meant that when this legislation was
introduced on 6 April 2015 Hargreaves Lansdown 
was one of the few companies able to offer a
comprehensive array of pension services allowing 
clients to take advantage of the freedoms. This
effort was rewarded, with £1.6 billion of net new 
pension business in the six months to 30 June 
2015, a 33% rise on the same period for 2014.
The interest rate environment remains depressed, 
and therefore income from cash balances 
remained low. However, in April 2015 we 
completed changes to our SIPP which allowed 
us to place client money on term deposit, a 
significant development as over 50% of client 
cash is held in the SIPP . This allowed us to 
increase both revenue and interest rates we 
pay to clients holding cash in their SIPP . Interest 
income should further recover when interest rates 
increase. However, in the short term we continue 
to experience subdued margins on cash balances.
Our Corporate Vantage service continues 
to expand, with 256 schemes live or in 
implementation (2014: 211). This increase in 
schemes has been accompanied by a 32% 
increase in Corporate Vantage assets, which 
now stand at £1.3 billion. Although this  
project remains long-term in nature we remain 
satisfied with its continued success. Growth 
in the first half of the year was constrained by 
the effect of new auto-enrolment on our key 
markets, with many companies focusing on 
achieving compliance rather than selecting new 
schemes. Once that period abated, the second 
half of the year was much stronger, with 32 
schemes added in the second half compared to 
22 for the corresponding period in 2014.
STRATEGIC REPORT 10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
2015/2016 MARKET OUTLOOK
There continue to be some welcome signs 
of a return to stronger economic trading 
conditions. As we saw during the year under 
review, this does not necessarily always 
translate into higher stock market levels.  
Stock market performance is a key factor 
for our results and we believe markets are 
likely to continue to be influenced by the 
performance of Asian economies, particularly 
China, with the potential for occasional 
reprises of Eurozone issues and the influence 
of geopolitical events. However we believe 
value exists in a number of key stock markets, 
particularly Europe and Japan.  
We are also pleased to note that the benefits 
of saving and investing now feature more 
regularly as key aspects of government policy 
and this is likely to enhance the attractiveness 
of investing and the future growth of our 
company. We therefore remain optimistic 
about the future.
GROUP OUTLOOK
Given our excellent performance and reduced 
headwinds, looking forward we intend 2016 
to show a return to healthy profit growth, 
even taking into account expenditure on 
launching new services. 
Having successfully absorbed 2014’s 
regulatory changes, particularly the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR), we have been able 
to deploy staff and resources on improving 
the business. The largest development in 
train is to deliver new cash and Peer-to-Peer 
lending services to clients. This development 
remains on track and we expect to bring it to 
market in the second half of 2016.
Given the success of our fund management 
business, further fund launches are planned, 
alongside a number of other improvements to 
the already excellent services we offer within 
the group. Once we have sufficient track 
record to evaluate the success of our new 
Portfolio+ service, we will consider whether 
to further expand our stable of simple online 
investing tools, sometimes referred to as 
“robo-advice.”
Whilst Hargreaves Lansdown has the scale 
and resources to deal with rising costs posed 
by ever-increasing regulation, technology and 
servicing expectations, these factors are an 
increasing challenge for a number of firms in 
our industry. Two transactions, one in June 
2015 and the other in July 2015 have been 
entered into with third party companies who 
wished to transfer their books of business to 
Hargreaves Lansdown post year-end. These 
transactions combined could in due course 
add up to £430 million of client assets 
and 12,000 clients. We believe further 
opportunities may present themselves in 
future as the need for scale becomes ever 
more vital.
THE IMPACT OF REGULATION AND 
GOVERNMENT POLICY
The retail distribution review, the biggest struc-
tural change to our industry for many years, 
has now been implemented and has had time 
to bed in. Looking forward, we see the direct 
investment market continuing to grow.  
Unusually the year’s biggest changes arose not 
from regulation but from government policy, 
particularly around pensions. In the budget the 
Chancellor announced what has become known 
as the “pension freedoms,” allowing the UK 
public more access to their pension investments 
and more options for funding their retirement. 
As well as supporting these changes Hargreaves 
Lansdown has been uniquely well-placed to 
benefit from them, being one of the biggest 
providers of drawdown services as well as 
the U.K.’s largest independent annuity broker. 
Through a considerable amount of hard work 
our company was in a position to offer clients 
full access to the freedoms from their inception 
on 6 April 2015 and we have benefited from 
considerable new pension business as a result. 
We hope this trend continues in 2016.
Following on from the positive public response to 
the pension freedoms, subsequent government 
policy has also brought more encouragement 
for saving and investing. The government has 
introduced the ability for Child Trust Funds 
(CTFs) to be transferred to Junior ISAs, and a 
£5,000 tax-free dividend allowance. Whilst these 
have been to some extent offset by changes 
to pensions tax relief and dividend taxation 
for wealthier investors, overall the package of 
changes have been positive and benefit the 
majority of our investors, further assisting us in 
encouraging investment amongst the UK public. 
Regulation is a continuous theme in financial ser-
vices, and addressing regulatory change continues 
to take up a considerable amount of our time and 
resources. However , Hargreaves Lansdown is 
well-placed to address these challenges and whilst 
there are always further regulatory changes coming 
down the track, we do not expect them to have as 
material an impact as those of the last 18 months. 11 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2015
CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP
Hargreaves Lansdown is an ethical company and 
champion of the retail investor. We campaign 
tirelessly on behalf of retail investors to improve 
their lot and their wealth.
We continue to encourage price competition 
within the fund industry which has resulted in 
reduced costs of both active and passive funds 
for investors. We have negotiated market leading 
discounts on some of the best UK funds to the 
benefit of our clients. The ability for CTFs to be 
transferred to Junior ISAs allows more than 6 
million children to potentially benefit from lower 
charges, better service and returns. This change 
is also something we have campaigned for over 
a considerable period and we were delighted to 
see it come to pass.
Other campaigns have included making it 
easier and quicker for investors to transfer their 
investments and pensions from one provider to 
another, campaigning for better pensions access, 
which means we welcome the Chancellor’s 
approach of greater freedoms for pension 
investors at retirement, and we continue to 
challenge HMRC on the issue of taxation of 
loyalty bonuses, the so called “discount tax”. A 
successful challenge would see money being 
returned to investors.
Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its 
corporate taxes in full in the UK, and we shall 
continue to seek to be a role model for how 
financial services companies deliver a great 
service, reputable behaviour and profitability in 
harmony with the UK public.
During the year the company supported the 
Youth Adventure Trust as its charity chosen by 
staff, and the Wallace and Gromit Grand Appeal, 
amongst others.
CONCLUSION
I would like to thank our clients, shareholders, 
staff and my fellow directors in what has once 
again been a very busy year of significant 
progress. The support and dedication they 
have shown has delivered another set of great 
results.
Ian Gorham  
Chief Executive    
16 September 2015
*As issued by The Platforum UK D2C Guide July 2015.
**Stockbroking data from Compeer Limited XO 
Quarterly Benchmarking Report Quarter 2 2015
STRATEGIC REPORT
