 HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
12
I am delighted to introduce our Annual 
Report for the year ended 30 June 2016 in 
which we announce a strong set of financial 
results together with a growth in profits. 
GROWTH
Our asset gathering has continued despite 
periods of low investor confidence during the 
year, particularly in the first quarter of the 
current calendar year which has historically 
been a strong period for us. Investors 
have been concerned by weaker financial 
markets, geo-political uncertainty, economic 
weakness and, in the latter stages of the 
reporting period, the debate surrounding 
the referendum on the UK’s membership of 
the European Union (“EU”). Notwithstanding 
this, we have delivered net new business 
inflows in line with last year, underpinned 
by impressive numbers of net new clients. 
As a result, our assets under administration 
finished the year at another record level. 
We have delivered strong underlying 
performance across our business and we 
are pleased to report a 10% increase in 
profits, despite market weakness during the 
period. The return to profit growth and the 
continued pace of asset gathering gives us 
the confidence to invest in the future growth 
CONTINUED GROWTH 
IN CLIENTS AND ASSETS 
DRIVING A RETURN TO 
PROFITS GROWTH.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
MIKE EVANS 
CHAIRMAN HARGREAVES LANSDOWN
ANNUAL REPORT 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
13
of the business. Over the course of the 
year, we have broadened the range of our 
Hargreaves Lansdown Multi-Manager Funds, 
and carried on the development of our 
savings proposition which remains on target 
to launch in late calendar year 2016. 
GOVERNANCE
Good governance remains at the heart of 
everything we do. During the course of the 
year, the Board Risk Committee has spent 
time on the development and approval of 
the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 
Process and improved its focus on emerging 
risks. In appointing Jayne Styles as Chair 
of the Investment Committee, we have 
sought to refine and focus the remit of the 
Investment Committee. We commissioned a 
mid-year Internal Audit review of the action 
plan arising from last year’s external Board 
effectiveness review and are pleased with 
the progress we are making as we continue 
to develop the Board.
DIVIDEND
We are a financially strong Group with a 
robust balance sheet retaining a capital base 
over and above regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements. Given the delivery of strong 
earnings growth in the year and taking into 
account the future cash requirements of 
the Group, the Board has approved a total 
dividend for the year of 34.0p per share 
(2015: 33.0p), representing a 3% increase 
versus 2015 and a dividend pay-out ratio of 
91% (2015: 99%), more in line with historic 
pay-out levels. This represents a second 
interim ordinary dividend of 16.30p per 
share (2015: 14.30p) and a special dividend 
of 9.90p per share (2015: 11.40p).
PEOPLE
We recognise the importance of developing 
a team which contains the best talent in the 
industry and have sustained our focus on 
supporting our people, with much attention 
on leadership and development, culture and 
succession planning during the year. 
We have made a number of changes to the 
Board. In October 2015 we appointed Jayne 
Styles as a new independent Non-Executive 
Director and Chair of the Investment 
Committee. Jayne is the Chief Investment 
Officer of MS Amlin and brings broad 
investment knowledge and relevant financial 
services experience. In February 2016, 
we welcomed Christopher Hill as our new 
Chief Financial Officer, who brings a wealth 
of financial and operational experience. As 
previously announced, Dharmash Mistry 
resigned as a Non-Executive Director at the 
end of August 2015 and we thank Dharmash 
for his contribution to the Board, particularly 
in the digital arena.
We have announced today that our Chief 
Executive, Ian Gorham, has decided to step 
down no later than 30 September 2017.  
Christopher Hill, our current Chief Financial 
Officer, will become Deputy Chief Executive 
with effect from 1 October 2016. It is the 
Board’s current intention that Christopher 
will be confirmed as Chief Executive 
following Ian’s departure subject to FCA 
approval.
Ian has done a fantastic job of leading 
Hargreaves Lansdown to its current position 
of a market leading successful FTSE 100 
business, serving the investment needs of 
836,000 clients and looking after 
£61.7 bn of the UK public’s assets.  The Board 
thanks Ian for his outstanding contribution to 
Hargreaves Lansdown.  
The coming year is an exciting one as 
we seek to continue the Group’s growth 
trajectory, building on the new services and 
features delivered in recent years and the 
introduction of our savings proposition to 
allow us to continue to thrive in our chosen 
markets. Our dedicated and talented people 
remain integral to our success and, as always 
my gratitude goes to my colleagues for 
their continuing hard work, diligence and 
enthusiasm.
Mike Evans
Chairman
6 September 2016
 
3% 
INCREASE TO 
DIVIDENDS
