        
“I am delighted to report that the year ended 30 June 2011 was once again an excellent year for Hargreaves
Lansdown.  The Group experienced record new business, record new clients and a record increase in profits
despite many world events sapping investor confidence during our peak trading period.”
Chairman’s Statement
Introduction
This financial year-end coincided with the
conclusion of 30 years since the formation
of the business on 1 July 1981. Hargreaves
Lansdown is now an established and
important part of the UK investment
scene.  During its 30 years’ existence over
one million people have placed some
business through the Group and today
380,000 investors actively use the
Hargreaves Lansdown investment
platform - Vantage.  
It is interesting to note that when surveys
are carried out amongst investors we are
regularly bestowed with major awards.
This is because we work tirelessly to
delight the people who invest through us.
The service is legendary and compares
favourably to any business in the UK but
in financial services is a leader.
Dividend
Capital adequacy requirements have
increased over the years and Hargreaves
Lansdown has always and still does retain
a healthy margin over the regulatory
requirement.  After careful review of the
company’s future cash requirements the
Board has decided to increase the second
(final) dividend and pay an ordinary
dividend of 8.41p per share (2010: 0.58p)
and an increased special dividend of
5.96p per share (2010: 1.70p) making the
total dividend for the year 18.87p per
share (2010: 11.88p). Although
Hargreaves Lansdown has many
initiatives in train, it is the Board’s view
that none require major cash investment
and given the short timeframe within
which profits turn to cash in the business
an increased dividend is appropriate.
The Board
Ian Gorham can be very pleased with 
his first year’s performance as Chief
Executive, since taking over from Peter
Hargreaves on 2 September 2010.  
Not only has his visible performance, 
i.e. the financial results, been good, but 
he has led and gained the respect of the
Executive Board to harness the effort that
has been needed to maintain our profit
record in testing economic times. 
Following Jonathan Davis’ decision to step
down as a non-executive director on 31
December 2010, the Nominations
Committee commenced a search for a
replacement non-executive director and,
following the previous successful use of our
own client list, decided to again advertise
the position to a subset of our clients. The
Committee took notice of the Davies Report
when formulating the selection criteria 
and was keen to ensure that any new
appointments sought to add diversity to the
Board. The Committee was firmly of the
view that diversity is a far wider subject
than pure gender. We hope to announce
the conclusion to this search shortly. 
Governance
It seems only yesterday that we became a
public company and now we have to
consider what extra things our investors
might require of us to position ourselves
as a FTSE 100 company. In the Corporate
Governance statement on pages 29 to 36,
we detail the steps that we have taken to
broaden our compliance with the UK
Corporate Governance Code. The results of
the Board review undertaken were positive
and confirmed that the Board and its
Committees have operated efficiently and
diligently.
Summary
I would like to express my gratitude to the
Board and all the staff for all their hard
work in producing a strong set of results in
difficult circumstances. There is no doubt
we face some interesting times ahead but
we will continue to look after our clients
well, and in so doing grow the company.
Michael Evans
Chairman
13 September 2011
59%
increase to dividends
A second (final) ordinary
dividend of 8.41 pence and 
a special dividend of 5.96
pence brings the total
dividend for the year to 18.87
pence (2010: 11.88 pence)
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
3
Back to contents
