 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
Chief Executive’s review  
The management team’s objective is to apply
substantial energy to building on our strong
track record in order to create significant
long-term value for our shareholders. 
Our strategy is unchanged; we continue to
focus on growing our business by
increasing the level of assets administered
on behalf of clients.  We shall do this by
continuing to provide clients with an
excellent value-for-money service.  This
will be supported by effective management
of costs and increasing the efficiency of our
operations. In all aspects we have been
extremely successful this year. 
Hargreaves Lansdown has a proven track
record of innovation and entrepreneurial
flair.  As a result we have been very success-
ful at creating and seizing opportunities.
Excellent progress has been made during
the year, delivering a strong performance in
spite of the economic challenges facing 
retail investors.  In 2012 we shall continue
to invest in our business and service to 
enhance our clients’ experience.
Review of the economic background
The year to 30 June 2011 posed many
challenges for the retail investor.
The political environment remained
turbulent and uncertain, especially in key
oil producing countries.  Severe
earthquakes experienced in Japan and New
Zealand completed a difficult
environmental backdrop.  
Much of Western society remains heavily
indebted both at a sovereign and personal
level.  The resulting need for parsimony led
to pressure on personal incomes and
potentially fewer spare pounds in the
pocket for saving and investment.
Concerns about the economy, future of the
Euro and banking exposures were also a
consistent theme.
Such uncertainty may offer opportunity for
the speculator, but is rarely good for wider
market confidence.  The FTSE 100 index
stood at 5945.7 at 30 June 2011.  Whilst
this was 21% up from 1 July 2010 it
remains some 10% below the level it stood
at when Hargreaves Lansdown became a
listed company in May 2007.
Hargreaves Lansdown’s 2011 results
The backdrop makes Hargreaves
Lansdown’s 2011 results all the more
creditable.  Once again we are pleased to
report record results. 
The company delivered a 41% increase in
assets under administration from £17.5
billion to £24.6 billion, 50,000 new clients
were welcomed and we report a record
profit before tax of £126.0m, up 46%.
These results represent continued client
confidence in the Hargreaves Lansdown
service. Client satisfaction is the highest in
the company’s history. Our Corporate
Vantage initiative reported a 127% rise in
members to 2417 since last reported on 31
December 2010, an annualised member
growth rate of 254%.  Within a year from
launch, from a standing start, we have 27
schemes live or in implementation.
Corporate business is naturally a long-term
project but we are delighted with its
progress.  
New business advised upon by our
financial advisers leapt by 13% to £625
million, further justification for our
investment in this area.
For these results we have to thank our
clients, whose continued enjoyment of the
service, loyalty and feedback enhances the
The company delivered a
41% increase in assets under
administration from £17 .5
billion to £24.6 billion,
50,000 new clients were
welcomed. 
I am pleased to report a strong set of results in my first reporting period as Chief Executive.  The results clearly
demonstrate the strength of our business model and continued success of our strategy. 
8
Back to contents        
growth of our business.  It remains a
positive reflection on our service that
referrals from existing clients consistently
feature as one of the main attractions to
Hargreaves Lansdown.  In an era of menu
driven telephone systems and often mediocre
client service Hargreaves Lansdown
demonstrates that a company with a
modern outlook, high service values and
low cost pricing can have great success.
We must also thank our staff, whose energy
and appetite for client service and new
developments is key to sustaining this
company’s growth.  
2012 market outlook
Storm clouds have been brewing ever since
the last round of quantitative easing.  Since
our year end the markets have seen a
worldwide sell-off of stocks and de-risking.
Although commercially many firms look
fundamentally sound there is only so much
cost saving that can be affected.  To provide
long-term growth economic stimulus is
essential, but the tools available to
policymakers are currently limited which
has led to fragile confidence. Emerging
markets have the advantage of not being
burdened with either personal or sovereign
debt, although those countries rely on the
western world buying their products.
Uncertainty remains over the future of the
Euro and the ramifications of repayment of
sovereign debt to those western banks which
have been foolhardy in their lending policies. 
On a positive note the potential for raising
interest rates fades further and further into
the future, a situation which will drive
investors to seek other income producing
assets such as those in which Hargreaves
Lansdown specialise.  It is also worth
pointing out that although emerging
markets have fallen short-term, their long-
term prospects are bright.  It is likely their
markets and currency will perform better
than the UK as we see a shift in economic
strength from West to East.  Any positive
appreciation helps improve the earnings of
Hargreaves Lansdown as a significant
proportion of our client assets are invested
in emerging economies. There are indeed
tough times ahead but the quality of our
service, information and pricing should
help us to prevail.
Company outlook
Despite the less than ideal economic
environment, Hargreaves Lansdown is in a
strong position.  We have continued to
invest in a range of enhancements to the
Vantage service and these new
developments have been delivered on time
and to budget. We have also restructured
our treasury strategy during the year to the
benefit of both clients and the company.
The post year-end tariff reductions and
functionality improvements in our
stockbroking service have been designed to
improve the client experience.  This should
encourage clients to consolidate all
investments, including shares and funds,
within their Vantage account. We believe
these enhancements represent a most
compelling proposition in the market.  The
initial response from clients both existing
and new has been very pleasing.
Our online overseas dealing service
launched in July, provides access to
European, US and Canadian markets at the
same low charging tariff.  We plan to
improve coverage of other investments
such as passive funds and investment
trusts, of which a vast range are already
offered on Vantage.
These developments support the continued
increase in the scope of our 'investment
supermarket'.  This will position
Hargreaves Lansdown as the best place for
an investor to invest in key asset classes.
This proposition, allied to our scale and
service levels, will provide competitive
advantage over traditional niche offerings.
The modern investor needs and expects
access to a wide range of good value
investment choices, Hargreaves Lansdown
delivers just that.
Our digital strategy is increasingly
important, with 27.5 million visits to our
website during the year, a 24.3% increase.
We have developed and will continue
developing new routes for seeking,
We report a record
profit before tax of
£126.0m, up 46%. 
Introduction Strategic Review Performance Review Governance Financial Statements
9
Back to contents Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011
attracting and communicating with clients
through electronic means which are
increasing in scope and sophistication. Our
new i-Phone and Android mobile phone
applications provide investors access to
extensive fund, share and investment
research, trading functionality, and allow
clients to manage their portfolio on the
move. Since launch in August 2011 our i-
Phone and Android applications have been
downloaded over 11,000 times.
Direct business will remain core to
Hargreaves Lansdown but our fee based
advice proposition presents opportunity for
growth, as the regulatory and economic
environment presents acute challenges to
other firms in the financial advice sector.
We are satisfied with progress on our
Corporate Vantage proposition and
continue to build our reputation in the
corporate market. Our discretionary service
also shows growth.
The cumulative effect of our many smaller
developments also makes a difference.
They also reflect our energy and
determination to capitalise on our market
position and continuously improve the
service to the benefit of our clients.
We are well aware that other companies
seek to compete, although as yet no one
has managed to do so to any scale.
Advantages such as proprietary ownership
of our own platform, engagement with
millions of investors, operating scale,
reputation, brand and service levels give us
a formidable position.  Nevertheless, we are
not complacent and continue to listen
carefully to clients and watch closely
competitor and industry developments.
In summary, we are extremely well placed.
2012 will be about reaping the benefits of
our hard work and further enhancements
to the service to maintain the long-term
future of the business.
Post year-end trading
Since the year end, the FTSE All-Share has
fallen by 12% (as at 30 August 2011).
However, levels of net new business
inflows since the year end have been strong
with July and August combined showing an
increase of more than 30% over the same
months in the prior year. Client recruitment
has also been strong, with net new clients
joining the Vantage service in July up 14%
for 2011 compared to the same month last
year and August also significantly higher.
Share dealing volumes were 11% higher in
July.  Market volatility during August
produced an exceptional level of trading
which enhanced the effect of the
introduction of our improved share dealing
service and tariff. August equity dealing
volumes were 170,000 versus 82,000 in
August 2010, a 107% increase.
The impact of regulation
The regulatory development of note
remains the Retail Distribution Review
(RDR).  The reforms covered in this
initiative divide broadly into two, being
relevant to the provision of advice and to
platforms.    
We have previously stated that we consider
ourselves already materially compliant
with the advisory part of the reforms.
These changes should hold opportunity,
both for expansion of our advice business
and increased interest in direct investment.
Our view on this element of RDR remains
positive.
The platform paper issued by the FSA on 1
August 2011 (PS11/9) represented a
potential significant U-turn in its position
on payments to platforms by fund groups
and posed more questions than answers.
Whilst we are disappointed that this part of
the FSA 's work is not yet clearly resolved,
we are confident that we will be able to
adapt as a business to meet any regulatory
requirements whilst maintaining a clear
focus on client service and on the success
of our business. There is substantial water
to go under the bridge in this debate.
Hargreaves Lansdown offers great prices,
service and information and will continue
to do so. Scale and technological
improvements will see costs for retail
investors reduce over time. This should
result in reduced margins but be more than
offset by increasing volumes.  We see no
current reason why our revenue or profits
should be materially affected by the RDR.
There is a range of recurring revenue
models available to us.  Investing direct
through Hargreaves Lansdown will remain
highly competitive and in most
circumstances lower cost than through
financial advisers.  There is also
considerable time to make any transition
and we already successfully use alternative
models in our business. Uncertainty
remains but we will continue to fine tune
our strategy as the RDR progresses towards
its two step implementation in the years
ahead.
We expect over time charging will become
more explicit for the 46% of our net income
received from fund groups.  Although
clients like the current model it is clear that
various industry developments lead
towards more prevalent explicit charging.
We will continue to promote our view that
"bundled" models have value for retail
investors but such a model is not an
economic necessity. Indeed some explicit
charging developments present new
revenue opportunities.  
In terms of wider regulatory developments,
as a highly compliant and ethical company,
we hope the restructured UK regulatory
regime will be effective but proportionate.
The £3 million additional charge to
Hargreaves Lansdown this year in respect
of a contribution to the Financial Services
Compensation Scheme for the Keydata
fiasco, in which we played no part,
highlighted the potential cost to innocent
companies of regulatory mistakes. The new
regulator must also keep a careful watch on
European developments and lobby
appropriately for the best outcome for the
UK.  
Conclusion
I would like to thank our clients,
shareholders, staff and my fellow directors.
Their continued support has delivered
another record year for Hargreaves
Lansdown. We have seen many more
people recognise the enjoyment and value
in self-directed investment using our
company's services. This is a trend we shall
do our utmost to promote and continue.
Ian Gorham
Chief Executive 
13 September 2011
We are satisfied with
progress on our 
Corporate Vantage
proposition and continue
to build our reputation in
the corporate market.
10
Back to contents        
...levels of net new business inﬂows
since the year end have been strong
with July and August combined
showing an increase of more than 30%
over the same months in the prior year.
Back to contents
