 7 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014
Chairman’s statement
I have great pleasure introducing our Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 
2014 in which we announce another strong set of results.  
In accordance with the new reporting rules, we have enhanced our 
annual report with the inclusion of a Strategic Report to present a clearer 
articulation of our strategy and business model. This report places more 
focus on giving investors the strategic forward-looking information 
that they need to guide their investment decisions. In addition revised 
remuneration reporting regulations have been incorporated as explained 
on page 42. 
This year has been dominated by regulation. The introduction of the 
Retail Distribution Review (“RDR”) for platforms in April has necessitated 
significant Board and management attention. Successfully designing, 
announcing and implementing a completely new charging structure for 
our clients holding fund investments to the satisfaction of our clients, our 
shareholders and the regulator was a major achievement. Despite this 
challenge, we managed to maintain our focus on growing the business 
organically, enhancing our digital proposition, adding functionality to our 
stockbroking business whilst continuing to work on improvements and 
the long term sustainability of our IT platform. 
Notwithstanding these challenges, the Group has once again increased 
both profits and assets under administration as we achieved record new 
business flows and record new client numbers.  We continue to be a 
financially strong organisation with a simple, strong, debt-free balance 
sheet retaining a healthy margin over the regulatory capital adequacy 
requirements.  Therefore after careful review of the company’s future 
cash requirements, the Board has decided to increase the dividend by 
paying a second interim ordinary dividend of 15.39p per share (2013: 
14.38p) and an increased special dividend of 9.61p per share (2013: 
8.91p) representing total dividends for the year of 32.0p per share 
(2013: 29.59p); an increase of 8%.
Good governance continues to be at the heart of what we do. The 
majority of the agreed actions from last year’s Board effectiveness 
review have been implemented, with the introduction of more frequent 
board meetings and a greater focus on strategy. Much attention has 
been paid to developing the talent within the business and refreshing 
the organisational structure to meet the future challenges of the Group. 
Details of our governance statement can be found on pages 29 to 41. 
In October 2013, we made a number of changes to our Board and 
Committee membership: we were delighted to welcome Shirley 
Garrood to the Board as a new independent Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chris Barling was appointed as Senior 
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and 
Jonathan Bloomer stepped down after over seven years on the Board. 
Jonathan’s extensive experience of the financial services industry and 
thoughtful contributions have been very valuable. On behalf of the Board 
I would like to thank him for all his contributions. 
As ever, the coming year will be a challenging one with competition 
intensifying in all areas of our business but we remain well placed to 
continue to satisfy our clients and thrive in our chosen markets. Our 
people are integral to our success and, as always my gratitude goes to 
the Board and the talented people we employ for their continuing hard 
work, diligence and enthusiasm. 
Michael Evans – Chairman
16 September 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
