 Questions and Answers with joint CEOs,  
Neil Dunkley and Alan Durrant
Q. 
Why does the Group have joint Chief Executives,  
and how do you divide responsibilities?
A. 
Alan: Really it’s for operational reasons. Neil and I both have more than 
twenty years of experience in our respective fields. We both know quite a 
lot about each other’s areas, too: Neil has been very successful in the investment 
management area through his work with in-house investment solutions, and I’ve 
been successful in the distribution area with Hargreaves Landsdown and Skandia 
– so we can provide challenge and support to each other. Ultimately we have an 
experienced distribution and advice man in Neil and an investment man in myself, 
running our individual parts of the businesses.
Q. 
 
What was the rationale for the IPO, and how will the proceeds be used?
A. 
Alan: We came to market for a number of clearly defined reasons: the 
primary one was to provide the business with capital to continue with our 
already successful history of acquisitions. There are also ancillary benefits to being 
a listed business in terms of the visibility and transparency for our various 
stakeholders, whether clients, advisers or potential vendors.
Q. 
 
How did the Group perform in 2016?
A. 
Neil: We are pleased to report revenue growth of 47% during the period, 
driven in part by organic growth but primarily through the completion of 
17 acquisitions which added approximately £616m of AUI. Total AUI at 31 October 
2016 was £2.1bn (2015: £1.2bn) including £693m (2015: £276m) assets under 
management (AUM). Adjusted EBITDA grew by 42% to £2.7m (2015: £1.9m).  
The adjusted EBITDA per share of 5.55 pence (2015: 4.68 pence) increased  
by 19% compared with 2015.
Q. 
 
What were your highlights of the year?
A. 
Neil: The IPO was clearly a highlight of the year, as was implementing  
all of the things we said we would do during the listing process. All of the 
acquisitions we have completed have been embedded into the business and have 
contributed to assets under management and profits.
A. 
Alan: Another key highlight of the year was the launch of our own 
investment platform in partnership with AJ Bell. This was the result of  
an extensive selection and implementation process and allows us to offer our 
clients and advisers the opportunity to use an in-house solution from which we 
also generate incremental revenue that otherwise would go to a third party. It’s 
about providing clients with something that they need to have anyway but, rather 
than having to use another external provider’s platform, we can offer them 
something which is at least as good but probably cheaper. When we find a way  
of raising our revenues, cutting our costs and delivering added value to our 
clients it feels like a classic win-win for all.
Alan Durrant
Joint CEO
We came to market 
for a number of 
clearly defined 
reasons: the primary 
one was to provide 
the business with 
capital to continue 
with our already 
successful history  
of acquisitions.
Adjusted EBITDA
+42%
2016
2015
£2.7m
£1.9m
Our Joint Chief Executive Officers Neil and Alan look back on a milestone  
year for the Group, and give their views on the opportunities that lie ahead.
Harwood Wealth Management Group plc Annual Report 2016
14 A. 
Neil: A key achievement is that we have created a vertically integrated 
business. We started, pre listing, with a business that was wholly 
focused on distribution and advice. Post listing, we have a business that is 
advice-driven but with a discretionary investment management function  
and also a range of unitised managed funds, adding to the stable of products 
that we can offer to our advisers.
Q. 
What have been the principal developments in the market,  
and how have these impacted performance?
A. 
Neil: One of the principal drivers for us has been the way in which the 
market has been consolidating, and the opportunities that have arisen 
from that. It’s presented to us a number of willing sellers, and we’ve been able  
to use the proceeds from the IPO to capitalise on that. RDR (the Retail 
Distribution Review), which came out in 2013, was the catalyst for a lot of 
consolidation in the market, because business models and revenue streams  
had to change. Post listing we have been able to accelerate our strategy by 
buying slightly larger businesses than we would have had the opportunity to  
do previously. There have been other changes, in terms of capital adequacy 
requirements, for example, which has made trading for small and medium 
advisory businesses a lot harder. Faced with so many opportunities we have  
to look at prospective acquisitions in a lot of detail, to make sure they fit with  
the culture of the business and are economically attractive.
A. 
Alan: The outcome of the Brexit referendum could have been a challenge 
for us but in fact has had no impact whatsoever so far. We didn’t see 
people holding out for the outcome of the referendum. Unlike some firms, we 
chose not to take people into cash. On the day of the referendum result we didn’t 
have clients panicking or selling, and since then equity and bond markets have 
been strong. The weakness in the pound has helped us. In general, the investment 
returns enjoyed by our clients have been good at a time when returns on cash are 
tiny, if anything. From an acquisitions perspective, we asked the businesses we 
were talking to in the run up to the EU referendum whether their motivations for 
selling had changed, and none had. People tend to want to sell either for reasons 
of lifestyle, i.e. they want to retire, or for deep structural reasons, whether it be to 
do with technology, compliance or capital adequacy, which means they can’t 
carry on as smaller business in the way they would like to. Neither of these 
motivations are impacted by Brexit.
A. 
Neil: Another key development is the pension freedoms. Previously,  
when clients retired, they were required to buy an annuity and no longer 
needed advisory services once that was in place. Today, that same client may still 
have an annuity or partial annuity, but is probably going to go into some sort of 
income solution where they want their money to be managed and to take advice 
for decades to come. For us, this is probably the most important structural 
change for a very long time.
Neil Dunkley
Joint CEO
One of the  
principal drivers 
for us has been the 
way in which the 
market has been 
consolidating, and 
the opportunities 
that have arisen 
from that.
Adjusted EBITDA  
per share
+19%
2016
2015
5.55p
4.68p
Governance Strategic Report
15
Overview Financial Statements Q. 
How would you summarise the firm’s primary objective and 
the strategic priorities to achieve this?
A. 
Alan: The principal opportunity is to buy really nice businesses at really 
nice prices. That has been, and remains, our strategy. Beyond just buying 
businesses we are a vertically integrated business, providing on-going advice, 
investment management and a platform, and we’re not looking to make the 
business much more complicated than that. There will be some additional products 
and services, but this business is driven by doing the simple stuff really well.
A. 
Neil: As Alan says, we are capitalising on the acquisition opportunities, 
we are integrating the businesses into our centralised process, whether 
that be platform or investment. Our ultimate drive is to give clients better 
outcomes from our size, our scale, from our geographic locations and our 
centralised investment expertise. Giving clients better outcomes creates 
shareholder value.
For the future, we’d like to continue with what we’ve been doing, carry on making 
selected acquisitions, making sure all the different parts of the business are 
integrated well, and creating better outcomes for clients. We’re not looking to 
reinvent the wheel. We’ve done pretty well historically, we’d like to carry on doing 
that, but adding to it.
Historically we have been based between the south coast and the M4 Corridor. 
Our geographical spread is widening, and will inevitably change as a natural 
consequence of the acquisition opportunities we face. We have announced the 
acquisition of Network Direct Ltd, which when completed will increase our scale 
and widen our geographical footprint significantly, to become nationwide. 
A. 
Alan: Organic growth will be driven by factors such as the pension 
freedoms we mentioned earlier, as there is a greater need for advice. 
Pension advice used to be pretty straightforward: you’d save and save, you’d 
take your pot and annuitise it, and that was it. Today the rules are a lot more 
complicated, the consequences of misunderstanding those rules are a lot more 
serious, and the options people have are far broader, therefore the need for 
advice has never been greater.
A. 
Neil: This is a really good time for a financial services distribution 
company and investment management business. As Alan said, the need 
for what we do has never been greater. The number of CF30 function IFAs has 
reduced quite significantly over the years, but the requirement for those people 
has increased. It puts us in a really good place, to be running a business like this 
at the moment.
For prospective 
vendors, the fact 
we have cash is a 
very big advantage 
for us. And the fact 
that we’ve been 
doing this for a long 
time: if you are in 
our catchment area 
and are seriously 
looking to sell your 
business, chances 
are you’re going  
to come and speak 
to us.
Alan Durrant
Questions and Answers with joint CEOs,  
Neil Dunkley and Alan Durrant continued
Harwood Wealth Management Group plc Annual Report 2016
16 Q. 
 
What do you see as the firm’s sources of competitive advantage?
A. 
Alan: Whether it be for advisers, clients or those looking to sell their 
business, a key strength is that we are simple, transparent people to 
deal with – we are a straightforward business. 
For prospective vendors, the fact we have cash is a very big advantage for  
us. And the fact that we’ve been doing this for a long time: if you are in our 
catchment area and are seriously looking to sell your business, chances are 
you’re going to come and speak to us.
When it comes to the advice and investment management side of things, again  
I’d point to the simplicity of the offering, to the competitive charging of the 
offering, but also the element of control the client has over what they pay for.  
In most advisory businesses there is one model: here’s what you pay per annum 
for your advice if you’ve got differing levels of assets. Basically, if you’re rich you 
pay more; you end up with a much bigger service, whether or not you want it,  
and have to pay for that. We very much believe in offering choice, however.  
If you want lots of help because your circumstances are more complicated, or 
simply because you want more hand holding, you can be on a proposition where 
you pay more. If you want a relatively light touch that’s fine, whether you have a 
lot of money or not. That is a key differentiator. People don’t feel they are being 
shoehorned into one solution just because they have a lot or a little money.
A. 
Neil: The success of our approach is evident in our client outcomes.  
In a year of significant market volatility caused by Brexit, Trump, China 
and oil, clients invested in our managed portfolios have seen strong returns. This 
is due to the robustness of our investment process and the highly experienced 
team of dedicated investment professionals who manage portfolios for internal 
and external clients.
Q. 
 
What is the outlook for the next 12 months?
A. 
Neil: We are a business that operates in asset markets, so we face the 
same challenges faced by all businesses that operate in asset markets. 
There are some key events coming up, the unwinding of Brexit, interest rate hikes, 
inflation increases and all those sorts of things. To us, they create opportunities  
as well as threats. If things like changes in government legislation confuse us, 
they’ll confuse our clients. When our clients are confused they’ll need help that 
they are willing to pay for.
For the future, we’d 
like to continue 
with what we’ve 
been doing, carry 
on making selected 
acquisitions, 
making sure all the 
different parts of 
the business are 
integrated well, 
and creating better 
outcomes for 
clients. We’re not 
looking to reinvent 
the wheel.
Neil Dunkley
Governance Strategic Report
17
Overview Financial Statements
