 12 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OVERVIEW
This continued success lies in our focused strategy, the 
ability of our in-house teams to extract maximum value 
from the portfolio, the underlying strength of the regional 
markets in which we operate and the maintenance of 
excellent working relationships with the key external 
Stakeholders that we work with throughout the 
Company’s value cycle.
Our strategic focus remains unchanged – extracting 
ma ximum 	 v alue 	 fr om 	 our 	 pr edominan t ly 	 br o wn field 	 land 	
portfolio to grow NAV, whilst building our recurring income 
base to meet the operating costs of the business. We do 
this by continuing to use our masterplanning, placemaking 
and technical expertise to transform redundant land into 
places where people want to live and work. 
As our business has grown, we have increased our focus 
on replenishing our strategic land bank to ensure that we 
maintain a pipeline of new sites to continue the value 
growth journey. We have also focused our in-house 
capabilities to build and retain new commercial space in 
our 	 s t r onges t 	 mark e t s , 	 r e flect ing 	 a 	 desir e 	 t o 	 gener a t e 	
long-term income from our assets. This response to the 
continued under-supply of good quality commercial units 
in the regions in which we operate also shows the 
growing maturity of the business.
Our business model is supported by the continued 
strength of our core markets across the North of England 
and the Midlands. Demand for new homes within those 
regions remained consistently strong throughout the year, 
r e flect ed 	 b y 	 t he 	 r a t e 	 o f 	 sales 	 a chie v ed 	 b y 	 our 	 housebuilding 	
partners on our larger sites. The rise of e-tailing and the 
increasing demands of consumers is also driving up 
demand for logistics and distribution space, with a number 
of our sites – such as Logistics North in Bolton and 
Gateway 45 in Leeds – ideally placed to meet that need.
National Government policy continues to support the 
r ede v elopmen t 	 o f 	 br o wn field 	 sit es , 	 as 	 e videnced 	 b y 	 t he 	
recently published Housing White Paper (February 2017). 
We also welcome the UK’s new industrial strategy as a 
lever to improve infrastructure, a critical factor in 
accelerating economic growth in our core regions.
CAPITAL GROWTH
Our Capital Growth team, led by Phil Wilson, has 
continued to deliver value growth and realisations. In 
particular, during 2016 the team secured outline planning 
consents for 65 plots, whilst converting 1,560 plots that 
had a resolution to grant planning into outline consents. 
We also purchased land with consent for 2.64m sq. ft of 
commercial space at Temple Green, Leeds. Following 
this activity, total consented residential plots under 
ownership or management (including sites where we are 
promoting third party interests through Planning 
Promotion Agreements (PPAs)) stand at 9,529 plots and 
consented commercial space on our land at 9.95m sq. ft.
We have live planning applications in the planning system 
for 1,200 new housing plots and 1.92m sq. ft of 
commercial space. Four PPAs were signed during the 
year with the potential to deliver c.500 housing plots, 
bringing the total number of plots promoted through 
PPAs to c.1,100. PPAs are agreements with landowners 
by which Harworth incurs the cost and risk of promoting 
land through planning. If successful, Harworth shares 
some 	 o f 	 t he 	 v alue 	 gain , 	 a f t er 	 firs t 	 r eco v ering 	 it s 	 cos t s , 	
when the land is sold.
On the 450-acre former Thoresby Colliery site in 
Nottinghamshire, consent is being sought for 800 new 
homes alongside 250,000 sq. ft of new commercial 
space. An application has also been submitted for the 
former Kellingley Colliery site in North Yorkshire to deliver 
1.4m sq. ft of new commercial space on a site that 
bene fit s 	 fr om 	 an 	 e xis t ing 	 r ail 	 and 	 canal 	 link . 	 Decisions 	 on 	
bo t h 	 sit es 	 ar e 	 e xpect ed 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 7 .
We have continued to plan carefully whether and when to 
dispose of investment properties to maximise the return 
from our portfolio. In 2016 we achieved receipts in excess 
of book value in all sections of the business, realising 
cash which can be reinvested in bringing other sites and 
acquisitions forward. A total of 619 residential plots were 
sold across 6 major development sites to national and 
regional housebuilders including Taylor Wimpey, Harron 
Homes and Arch Group.
Disposals for commercial uses in 2016 included the sale 
of 43.7 acres at our Logistics North development in 
Bolton to Lidl UK for £22.5m for the Company to set-up 
Chief Executive’s statement
I am pleased to report another robust set of results to Shareholders, reflecting a strong 
year of progress for the business. In 2016, the Group once again delivered a year of double-
digit net asset value (NAV) growth of 12.5% (2015: 18.9%), with a NAV of £334.9m at the 
year-end (2015: £297.7m). EPRA NAV at the end of the year rose to £350.1m, representing a 
13.3% increase over the year (2015: £309.1m). We achieved an operating profit of £45.8m
(1)
 
(2015: £37.9m) with value gains of £43.7m
(2)
 (2015: £36.3m) – ahead of expectations – and profit 
from operations rose to £2.2m (2015: £1.5m).  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 13
its regional distribution headquarters. This deal set a new 
benchmark price per acre for the development and 
marked the sixth key investment at the site in the past 
three years, following previous sales to Aldi, MBDA, Joy 
Global and Exeter Property Group and the signing of a 
forward funding agreement with M&G Real Estate for us 
to construct two new Grade A commercial units totalling 
400,000 sq. ft. As announced just after year end, the 
larger of these units – a 225,000 sq. ft unit known as 
‘Logistics 225’ – was leased to Whistl on a ten-year lease, 
r e flect ing 	 t he 	 s t r engt h 	 o f 	 t he 	 Nor t h 	 W es t 	 logis t ics 	 and 	
distribution market.
To generate similar returns in the future, we are 
continuing to prioritise capital investment on our sites 
with the largest value enhancement potential, including 
the Advanced Manufacturing Park in Rotherham, 
Logistics North in Bolton and Gateway 45 in Leeds, to 
ensure that both land and property is available for 
immediate occupation. This strategic infrastructure 
investment delivers multiple sale points, diversifying risk 
across our portfolio, and during the year, the team 
opened up new sites at Rossington, Ellington and 
Castleford. Such strategic infrastructure investment has 
been complemented by our continued disposal of lower 
value sites – mainly agricultural land with little value add 
potential – to free up management time on our highest 
value-enhancing sites.
INCOME GENERATION
Our Income Generation team, led by Ian Ball, has 
maintained its push for increasingly resilient recurring 
income. This has been achieved by: improving rental 
returns from our expanding business park portfolio; 
increasing rental returns and royalties from energy 
generation, environmental technologies and the 
agricultural portfolio; and deriving income from recycled 
aggregates that arise from the development process 
– 	 t her eb y 	 offse t t ing 	 t he 	 fla gged 	 and 	 mana ged 	 decline 	 in 	
t he 	 sale 	 o f 	 coal 	 fines .
Our Business Space team increased income from our 
business parks in 2016, driven by 32 new and renewed 
commercial lettings in 2016 with an annualised rent roll of 
£663,000. This was supplemented by the acquisition of 
two business parks in the North West during the fourth 
quarter with a combined annualised rent roll of £1.62m. 
Asset management opportunities have already been 
iden t ified 	 t o 	 gr o w 	 t he 	 income 	 and 	 t he 	 underlying 	 asse t 	
v alue 	 o f 	 bo t h 	 sit es 	 in 	 t he 	 fut ur e . 	 Business 	 Spa ce 	 pr ofit 	
from operations in 2016 was £3.8m (2015: £2.2m on an 
underlying basis) and is expected to increase further in 
2017 as we look to sign new leases on a number of new 
units, including our 75,000 sq. ft Helix unit at Gateway 36 
in Barnsley. The weighted average unexpired lease term 
(WAULT) across the portfolio now stands at 7 .5 years 
(2015: 8.3 years).
“Our continued success in unlocking the latent value  
in our portfolio has meant that refilling our strategic 
landbank for future value growth has become an even 
more important part of our strategy.”
Owen Michaelson - Chief Executive
Strong progress was made in driving up income from our 
r ene w able 	 ener gy 	 t enan t s 	 in 	 t he 	 firs t 	 half 	 o f 	 2 0 1 6 , 	 wit h 	 a 	
total of 144.5MW of capacity now installed on our land as 
a result of a net 19.0MW of capacity being energised 
during the year. Demand for new schemes slowed 
following changes to renewables subsidies at the end of 
March, rendering some projects unviable. In light of this, 
management focus within our Natural Resources team 
has now shifted to alternative technologies with better 
short term prospects and governmental support, 
including battery storage facilities that are seen as critical 
to helping balance supply and demand in the UK power 
system.
ACQUISITIONS
Our continued success in unlocking the latent value in 
o u r 	 p o r t f o l i o 	 h a s 	 m e a nt 	 t h a t 	 r efi l l i n g 	 o u r 	 st ra t e g i c 	 l a n d 	
bank for future value growth has become an even more 
important part of our strategy. We expanded our 
Acquisitions team, led by Gary Owens, in 2016 to 
identify further suitable sites and, as a direct result, 
m ad e 	 s i x 	 ac q u i s i t i o n s 	 i n 	 t h e 	 y e a r 	 f o r 	 £ 3 1 . 6 m , 	 r efl e c t i n g 	
our desire to supplement our strategic land bank and 
improve the quality of our recurring income base. All of 
our acquisitions were made utilising existing cash 
reserves with completion in each case taking place 
within six weeks of agreeing heads of terms, helping to 
build our reputation for acting swiftly and in a 
straightforward manner. 
Our 	 firs t 	 a cquisit ion 	 w as 	 A dv an ta ge 	 House 	 in 	 R o t herham 	
in 	 Februar y 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 This 	 2 0 , 0 0 0 	 sq . 	 f t 	 office 	 building 	 w as 	
purchased for £2.2m at a net initial yield of 13.3% and is 
fully let to Civica UK on a long-term lease. It is also 
loca t ed 	 a dja cen t 	 t o 	 our 	 fla gship 	 W a v erle y 	 de v elopmen t , 	
thereby solidifying our presence close to Junction 33 of 
the M1. 14 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
In March, we purchased Keyland Developments’ 50% 
share of The Aire Valley Land LLP , a joint venture with 
Evans Property Group, for £8.5m. Aire Valley Land LLP 
owns Gateway 45 Leeds, a 166-acre logistics hub in the 
Leeds City Region Enterprise Zone. The site, adjacent to 
Junct ion 	 45 	 o f 	 t he 	 M 1 , 	 alr ea dy 	 bene fit s 	 fr om 	 out line 	
planning consent for 2.64m sq. ft of commercial space 
for logistics and distribution uses. During the remainder of 
the year we worked with Evans to complete the 
in fr as t ruct ur e 	 w ork s 	 f or 	 t he 	 firs t 	 phase 	 o f 	 de v elopmen t 	
land, thereby allowing the completion of the sale of land 
for a Park and Ride facility to Leeds City Council, before 
relaunching the site as ‘Gateway 45 Leeds’ to improve 
the site’s promotion to third-party logistics and e-tailing 
businesses. We expect this work to bear fruit with new 
deals at the site in 2017 .
Two further key acquisitions in the year were both in the 
North West and made in the fourth quarter, in line with our 
strategy to strengthen our income portfolio and to build 
our presence in the region. In November, we completed 
the acquisition of Moorland Gate business park in Chorley, 
Lancashire for £4.5m. This site comprises 10.75 acres 
with 125,122 sq. ft of built space. It generates a net initial 
yield of 9.53%, with a reversionary yield of 10.4% and 
further asset management and potential development 
oppor t unit ies 	 alr ea dy 	 iden t ified . 	 This 	 w as 	 f ollo w ed 	 b y 	 t he 	
acquisition in December of Four Oaks business park in 
Preston, Lancashire for £13.4m. The site extends across 
19.4 acres with 428,800 sq. ft of built logistics 
warehousing space, with a net initial yield of 8.74% and a 
reversionary yield of 11.4%. Together with our Logistics 
North development, we are beginning to build critical 
mass across our North West portfolio, with all three sites 
located along a corridor of junctions on the M61. 
We recognise the need to replenish and grow the 
Company’s strategic land bank, to maintain delivery of 
our target for NAV growth through the property cycle. 
To that end, we have entered into four option agreements 
to acquire strategic land sites that extend to 
approximately 228 acres, comprising a mixture of 
potential residential and commercial sites located in our 
cor e 	 r egions . 	 Subject 	 t o 	 con firma t ion 	 t hr ough 	 due 	
diligence, these stand the business in good stead as we 
look to grow our portfolio further in 2017 and beyond. 
On 17 March 2017 , we announced a share placing to 
raise £27 .1m (net of expenses) to accelerate the growth of 
our strategic land bank. This is covered in more detail on 
the following page of this report. 
MAINTAINING MOMENTUM
Momentum from 2016 has been carried over into the new 
financial 	 y ear 	 wit h 	 a 	 number 	 o f 	 k e y 	 deals 	 alr ea dy 	
completed or agreed, highlighting the solid fundamentals 
of the property sector in the North of England and the 
Midlands, and the team’s ability to realise value growth in 
our portfolio.
January saw Whistl take a ten-year lease of M&G Real 
Estate’s Logistics 225 unit at Logistics North. This was at 
the benchmark rental level in the North West for industrial 
property of £6 per sq. ft and also triggered a promote fee 
from M&G Real Estate for letting the building within six 
weeks of practical completion. This was followed in 
February by the sale of the next phase of 4.7 acres of 
engineered housing land at Waverley to Avant Homes for 
£2.5m and the exchange of contracts with Keepmoat for 
t he 	 firs t 	 phase 	 o f 	 our 	 Flass 	 L ane 	 de v elopmen t 	 in 	
Castleford. Keepmoat will pay £3.65m for 9.88 acres of 
land, where it plans to build 157 new homes.
With clear growth momentum established and 
maintained across all key parts of the business and the 
maintenance of favourable market conditions – both 
across our sectors and the regions in which we operate 
– 	 we 	 r emain 	 confident 	 in 	 our 	 ability 	 to 	 continue 	 to 	 deliver 	
growth in net asset value, whilst expecting performance 
to remain second-half weighted. We therefore anticipate 
a healthy number of sales and increased development 
spend in 2017.
Our continued strong performance is testament to the 
strength of our core team of around 50 people and our 
achievements would not have materialised without the 
dedication, 	 patience 	 and 	 perseverance 	 of 	 our 	 staff. 	 I 	 thank	
all of our team for their hard work and diligence in making 
the Group what it is today.
Owen Michaelson 
Chief Executive 
19 April 2017
Chief Executive’s statement
continued
Notes:
(1) 
O p e rati n g 	 p rofi t 	 b efo re 	 ex c e pti o n a l 	 i t e ms 	 a n d 	 i n c l u d i n g 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s.
(2)
	 In c re a s e/ ( d e c re a s e ) 	 i n 	 fa i r 	 va l u e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( 20 1 6 : 	 £33.5m ) , 	 p rofi t / ( l o s s ) 	 o n 	 s a l e 	 of 	 i nve stm e nt 	 p ro p e r ti e s 	 a n d 	 a s s ets 	 h e l d 	 fo r 	 s a l e 	 ( £8.8 m ) 	 to g eth e r 	 w i th 	 oth e r 	 g a i ns, 	
b e i n g 	 ove rag e s 	 ( £0 . 7 m ) , 	 a n d 	 s h a re 	 of 	 p rofi t 	 of 	 a s s o c i at e 	 a n d 	 j o i nt 	 ve ntu re s 	 ( £0 . 6 m ) . CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 15
March 2017 equity placing
Replenishing our land and property portfolio, both by securing new 
recurring income streams and growing and expanding our strategic 
land bank, is fundamental to us continuing to deliver value to our 
Shareholders. While we have made good progress in the past two 
years in securing valuable acquisition opportunities, this placing 
enables us to accelerate our acquisition strategy through the funding 
of the purchase of, and investment in, further sites to support the long 
term growth prospects of the business.
Prior to the equity placing, strategic land encompassed approximately 
5% of the value of the Group’ s portfolio, markedly down from 
approximately 15% at the end of 2015, as a result of the Groups 
success at moving this strategic land through the development process.
The need to replenish our landbank:  
our portfolio as at 31 December 2016 
Next 10 
sites
Remaining sites
Waverley
Rossington
Logistics 
North
Gateway 36
Sheburn Rail 
Freight Terminal 
(Gascoigne Wood)
Asfordby
Key
Coalville
Harworth 
Colliery
Prince of 
Wales
Lounge
56%
23% 21%
£400.3m
Strategic Land
Major Developments
Business Space/
Natural Resources
Agriculture & Other
In order to address this, we recently entered into four option agreements 
to acquire, in aggregate, approximately 200 acres of strategic land, the 
masterplans for which are expected to deliver in aggregate over 
1,500 residential plots and c.600,000 sq. ft of new commercial space. 
Approximately £19.2m is required to exercise the options and fund the 
first 	 thr ee 	 years 	 of 	 expenditur e 	 on 	 planning, 	 r emediation 	 and 	
infrastructure works, and further site assembly.
This would increase our strategic land bank to approximately 
2,750 acres assuming the option agreements are exercised following 
success ful 	 con firma t or y 	 due 	 diligence . 	 The 	 op t ion 	 a gr eemen t s 	 ar e 	
expected to generate an internal rate of return in excess of 
management’s target return requirements, being accretive to both 
earnings and net asset value per share in the medium term after taking 
account of the impact of the placing. 
Four further potential strategic land opportunities are also in 
negotiation, to acquire in aggregate up to 407 acres of strategic 
land for both residential and commercial development, requiring 
approximately £15.5m of investment. If pursued, they could be part 
funded by the balance of the net proceeds of the placing, with the 
remainder of any capital requirement being met by the Group’s 
internally generated free cash.
Significant 	 br ownfield 	 development 	 sites 	 and 	 multi-let 	 business 	 parks 	
with asset management opportunities will continue to form the 
backbone 	 of 	 the 	 Gr oup’ s 	 acquisitions 	 strategy , 	 firmly 	 r eflecting 	 our 	
confidence 	 in 	 the 	 markets 	 in 	 which 	 we 	 operate 	 to 	 deliver 	 gr owth 	 for 	
Shareholders. Investment in edge of settlement sites and the 
assembly of new land parcels will also be pursued in order to create 
new, large scale communities attractive to both residential and 
commercial customers – such as that achieved at Waverley.
Following the publication of our preliminary results on 6 March 2017, we successfully undertook an equity 
placing that raised £27.1m (net of expenses). This involved placing 29,226,974 new Ordinary Shares 
(representing 9.9% of the Company’s share capital prior to the placing) at a price of 95.0 pence per share 
(representing a discount of approximately 1.6% to the closing mid-market price of the Company’s shares on the 
day before the announcement of the placing) to accelerate the continued expansion of our strategic land bank.
Thoresby development, 2016
