 HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT / 9
Financial Performance 
The Group has delivered another year of growth from continuing 
operations in all service lines on a constant currency basis. The 
results were in line with expectations despite being affected for a 
second year by the strength of sterling. In addition, cash balances 
at 31 January 2016 were slightly higher than expectations. 
Revenue from continuing operations was in line with the prior 
year at £676.5m (2015: £677.9m), gross profit increased by 6.4% 
to £90.3m (2015: £84.9m) and operating profit from continuing 
operations before non-recurring items for the year increased by 
4.1% to £10.2m (2015: £9.8m). Adjusted
(1)
 profit before tax from 
continuing operations was in line with expectations at £9.3m 
(2015: £9.2m). 
Basic earnings per share from continuing operations increased 
by 10.7% to 9.42p (2015: 8.51p). Basic earnings per share from 
continuing operations before non-recurring costs increased by 
3.3% to 9.73p (2015: 9.42p).
In constant currency, revenue and gross profit increased by 4.9% 
and 9.1% respectively, with adjusted operating profit up 9.2%, 
reflecting an overall improvement to the net profit margin. 
Key to the success during the year has been the record growth 
reported from our US business combined with strong trading 
results from Asia Pacific following the Group’s investment in both 
of those regions in 2015. Trading conditions in the USA have been 
favourable with strong demand for technology skills, in executive, 
technical and offshore services. In Asia, revenues and gross profits 
grew strongly as productivity continued to improve and a new 
office was opened in Singapore.
Currency headwinds in mainland Europe masked good underlying 
growth despite a strong performance in contract recruitment. Both 
Germany and Sweden grew significantly in a recruitment market 
recovering from the uncertainty of the euro crisis. In the UK, 
notwithstanding a generally weaker permanent recruitment market, 
particularly in the final two months of the year, contract recruitment 
was robust and offshore services reported record growth.
Following a full review of all the strategic options, in December 
2015, Nash Technologies GmbH (“NT Group”), the German 
outsourcing business, was disposed of by way of a management 
buy-out. This transaction provided an exit from non-core, 
loss-making activities and lowered the Group’s financial risk 
profile, while retaining the upside potential of possible further 
consideration depending on the future performance of the NT 
Group. This resulted in a £13.6m (2015: £0.6m) loss on disposal. 
The NT Group’s loss before tax on discontinued operations for 
the year was £0.4m (2015: £0.9m). 
The Group also decided to close its Oil and Gas operations in 
Warrington due to a downturn in the energy market. The business 
incurred a loss before tax of £0.2m (2015: £0.1m profit) and 
the non-recurring costs resulting from closure were also £0.2m 
(2015: £nil). 
In Belgium, the Group’s acquisition of Talent-IT in Antwerp 
delivered a record performance. The final payment of £2.1m 
under the earn-out was settled in August resulting in excess 
consideration payable of £0.2m.
Taking into account these events, the Group’s statutory loss for 
the year was £7.6m (2015: £5.3m profit).
The Board is recommending an 8.7% 
increase in the final dividend to 2.360p
“
“
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman
(1)
 Excluding the impact of non-recuring items. 10 / HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Strategy 
The Group’s strategy is to continue to grow the business organically 
as well as through earnings-enhancing, bolt-on acquisitions. 
The Group’s strong relationship-based trading model supports the 
delivery of a broad portfolio of services to our clients enabling 
cross-selling opportunities across service lines and geographic 
regions. 
A major competitive advantage is the Group’s market-leading 
business in Vietnam where services such as candidate sourcing 
and business process outsourcing are being cost-effectively 
delivered directly to the Group’s clients in the USA and UK and 
increasingly in Europe and Asia.
The business model comprises a majority of annuity revenues 
(2016: 62.4%), namely contracting, managed and offshore 
services, supplemented by higher-margin, cash-generative 
permanent recruitment (2016: 37.6%), both executive and 
technical. Cash generated by the business model is applied to 
organic investments, bolt-on acquisitions and for the payment of 
progressive and sustainable dividends. 
This balance of permanent recruitment, contracting and offshore 
services, combined with our market-leading position in the senior 
technology hiring market, provides the Group with a competitive 
advantage, enabling the Group to maintain client engagement 
at each stage of the business cycle, and thereby deliver resilient 
financial results.
Governance and Board
Harvey Nash’s robust corporate governance framework underpins 
its performance. I have previously set out three clear priorities for 
the Board, on which we remain firmly focused. 
Our first priority is to debate the strategy for increasing shareholder 
value and to hold the executive team accountable for its delivery. 
Our second priority is to ensure we have a highly talented team 
capable of executing our strategy and that we plan effectively for 
succession across the Group. Our third priority is to ensure that the 
right corporate values are in place, supported by the appropriate 
governance structures and their effective implementation.
In the year under review, our key strategic focus has been on 
securing the disposal of the NT Group, which was completed 
in December 2015. This has improved the Group’s financial risk 
profile, as well as allowing us to concentrate on the core strategic 
aims of the Group. We are also embracing the new risk guidelines 
and ensuring the robustness of our risk assessment processes to 
ensure we have the right mechanisms in place in order to make 
the right strategic decisions and enable us to confirm the longer-
term viability of the Group to our stakeholders.
Further details on the role and effectiveness of the Board are 
provided in my statement in the Corporate Governance section 
of this Annual Report. 
Dividend
The Board is recommending an 8.7% increase in the final dividend 
to 2.360 pence per share (2015: 2.171p). This gives a total dividend 
for the year of 3.850 pence per share (2015: 3.531p), up 9.0%, and 
reflects the Group’s progressive and sustainable dividend policy. 
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 30 June 
2016, the final dividend will be paid on 8 July 2016 to shareholders 
on the register as at 17 June 2016.
Outlook
In the year ended 31 January 2016, the Group’s businesses in the 
USA, Germany, Sweden and Asia all reported strong growth and 
in some cases record revenues and profits. Whilst the weakness 
in executive recruitment and the energy sector held back the 
overall UK results, strong growth came from Scotland and offices 
outside of London. Despite this and the strong contracting results, 
the UK experienced a slowdown in permanent recruitment in the 
final two months as uncertainty affected clients’ decision-making 
processes. This caution in the UK is likely to continue until the 
referendum on Europe concludes.
In the current year, uncertainty in Asia as a result of economic 
challenges in China continues however, trading in Europe has 
been broadly on track. 
Visibility is undoubtedly limited whilst global economic and UK 
political volatility persist. Nevertheless the Group’s performance 
at this early stage of the financial year is in line with expectations. 
Julie Baddeley 
Chairman
  HARVEY NASH GROUP PLC
STRATEGIC REPORT
