 10 HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016
OVERVIEW, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE
Our core strategy is to grow and realise value from our 
extensive land bank, much of which derives from our 
herita ge 	 coalfield 	 por t f olio , 	 supplemen t ed 	 b y 	 a 	 r ange 	 o f 	
land and property acquisitions in the North and Midlands 
over the past two years.
Harworth has extensive experience in remediating and 
developing large previously used sites for future use for 
commercial and residential purposes. Our Capital Growth 
team continued to deliver value growth across our 
underlying portfolio by securing planning consents, 
re-engineering land for future uses, proactive asset 
management and strategic land acquisitions during the 
year. We achieved particularly good progress at our 
Logistics North site in Bolton, completing sales to Lidl UK 
(for £22.5m), Aldi and Greene King, a letting to Costa 
Coff ee 	 and 	 a chie ving 	 pr a ct ical 	 comple t ion 	 o f 	 t w o 	 f or w ard	
funded units on behalf of M&G Real Estate in December 
2016. One of these units was let to Whistl shortly after the 
year-end. 
Our commitment to investors is, over time, to seek to 
cover the Group’s operating costs, interest, tax and 
dividends from ongoing rental and operating income. A 
significan t 	 pr opor t ion 	 o f 	 t his 	 income 	 has 	 been 	 gener a t ed 	
fr om 	 miner als 	 and 	 coal 	 fines 	 r eco v er ed 	 during 	 t he 	
de v elopmen t 	 pr ocess . 	 As 	 pr e viously 	 fla gged , 	 t his 	 income 	
stream experienced a downturn in 2016, following the 
sharp reduction in coal burn in the UK power industry. 
Our Income Generation team performed very well in 
mitigating this downturn by growing our rental income 
and undertaking targeted direct development to create 
further opportunities for rental growth in 2017 . We also 
focused our acquisition strategy during the second half of 
2016 on income generating assets, including Moorland 
Gate and Four Oak business parks, which present 
significan t 	 oppor t unit ies 	 f or 	 r en tal 	 impr o v emen t 	 and 	
yield compression.
Six acquisitions were completed during the year, for a total 
of £31.6m, all within the core regions in which we operate. 
Two of those acquisitions have continued to replenish the 
strategic land bank in order to secure our long-term 
development pipeline; a key component of our strategy.
We review our strategy each year. This year’s review 
reinforced to the Board that the current strategy remains 
robust and appropriate. Our consistently strong rates of 
value growth are driven more by management initiatives 
than underlying movements in the real estate markets, 
making the Group’s operational performance less 
e xposed 	 t o 	 mark e t 	 fluct ua t ions . 	 This 	 has 	 been 	 par t icularly 	
evident in the Group’s performance in the second half of 
the year. 
DIVIDEND
We paid a dividend of 0.51p per share (£1.5m or £2.0m 
on 	 an 	 annualised 	 basis ) 	 f or 	 t he 	 2 0 1 5 	 financial 	 y ear 	 on 	
9 	 Sep t ember 	 2 0 1 6 . 	 This 	 w as 	 t he 	 firs t 	 dividend 	 in 	 man y 	
years. The Board has stated its intention to grow the 
dividend, broadly in line with the growth of the business, 
and pay it from recurring income and realised gains from 
disposals. The Board will not distribute unrealised gains 
recognised on the revaluation of property and will retain a 
proportion of its recurring income and realised gains for 
reinvestment into the property portfolio. Consistent with 
that policy, we declared and paid an interim dividend of 
0.23p per share in December 2016 and I am pleased to 
sa y 	 t ha t 	 t he 	 Board 	 is 	 r ecommending 	 a 	 final 	 dividend 	 o f 	
0.523p per share to give a total dividend of 0.753p per 
share (£2.2m) for the year, being a 10% increase on last 
y ear’ s 	 annualised 	 dividend . 	 The 	 final 	 dividend 	 will 	 be 	 paid 	
on 30 May 2017 to Shareholders on the register as at 
5 May 2017 .
OUR BOARD 
At the start of 2016 we welcomed Andrew Kirkman as 
Finance Director. Andrew joined us from Viridor, one of 
the two main subsidiaries of Pennon Group plc. Andrew 
has 	 alr ea dy 	 ma de 	 a 	 significan t 	 con t ribut ion , 	 in 	 par t icular 	
s t r engt h en i ng 	 our 	 fin anci al 	 m an a gem en t 	 an d 	 i m pr o vi ng	
our investor relations approach. In April, Peter Hickson 
retired from the Board at the 2016 Annual General 
Meeting, having served as Senior Independent Director 
and 	 Chairman 	 o f 	 t he 	 Remuner a t ion 	 Commit t ee 	 f or 	 fiv e 	
years. I would like to thank Peter for his strong support 
and guidance to me and the Board over that time, not 
least through our complicated restructuring and the 
subsequent re-acquisition of Harworth Estates in 2015.
In April we also welcomed Andrew Cunningham, formerly 
Chief Executive of Grainger plc, to the Board and we 
b en e fi t 	 fr o m 	 h i s 	 e x t en s iv e 	 e xp eri en c e 	 i n 	 a d j a c en t 	 m a rk e t s . 	
The Board appointed Lisa Clement, who has been a 
Board member since 2011, as Senior Independent 
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to present the Group’s Annual Report and Financial Statements for the financial 
year ended 31 December 2016. We have delivered another year of strong growth, despite the 
political events that overshadowed the property industry in 2016. The business continued to 
meet its ambition of increasing net asset value (NAV) by at least 10% per annum through the 
property cycle. NAV has grown by 12.5% (2015: 18.9% reflecting capital raised) to £334.9m at 
the year-end (2015: £297.7m). EPRA NAV at the end of the year rose to £350.1m, representing a 
13.3% increase over the year (2015: £309.1m). CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
HARWORTH GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2016 11
Director, and Lisa also took on the chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. Andrew Cunningham replaced 
Lisa as chair of the Audit Committee. We also welcomed 
Chris Birch as our Company Secretary and Group 
General Counsel in June.
OUR PEOPLE
We have a dedicated team of skilled and experienced 
professionals who know how to drive value and income 
from our portfolio. As the business grows and matures, 
so does the team. I am pleased to say that 15% of our 
people earned well-deserved promotions at the 
beginning 	 o f 	 t his 	 y ear , 	 r e flect ing 	 t he 	 gr o wing 	 e xperience 	
and capabilities across the business. We have actively 
recruited during the year and are continuing to do so, to 
meet the demands of our growing land and property 
portfolio. As we grow our talent, continuing to increase 
diversity remains a priority. 
OUR SHAREHOLDERS
We appreciate the continued strong support from all our 
Shareholders as we continue to grow. Our two largest 
Shareholders, The Peel Group and the Pension 
P r o t ect ion 	 F und 	 (P P F ) , 	 ha v e 	 r ea ffirmed 	 t heir 	 s t r ong 	
medium to long term support to the Group. The PPF has 
r ecen t ly 	 con firmed 	 t ha t 	 it 	 has 	 no w 	 mo v ed 	 it s 	 shar eholding 	
in the Group from its portfolio of “assets acquired through 
restructuring” into its core, long-term investment portfolio, 
with a desire to support the full realisation of value by the 
Group over the medium to long-term.
At the end of 2016, the return to Shareholders of 25% 
since our ‘relisting’ in March 2015 was broadly in line with 
the absolute return in the business over the period. 
However, in common with our peer Group, the share 
price 	 a t 	 t he 	 end 	 o f 	 t he 	 y ear 	 con t inued 	 t o 	 r e flect 	 a 	 ma t erial 	
discount to NAV. Steps to close this discount remain a 
strategic priority for the Board, which believes that the 
resilience of our markets and current attractive pricing 
level relative to NAV present a compelling opportunity for 
new investors.
OUTLOOK
The Group is well positioned to capitalise on the regional 
residential and commercial markets, which continue to 
have strong fundamentals and perform well. Regional 
mark e t s , 	 specifically 	 in 	 t he 	 ar eas 	 in 	 which 	 w e 	 oper a t e , 	
have seen continued government support and 
infrastructure investment, and have not seen the volatility 
experienced in the London and South East property 
mark e t s . 	 F ur t her , 	 housing 	 r emains 	 much 	 mor e 	 a ff ordable .	
We have a strategy for, and a track record of, delivering 
resilient, sustainable value growth and we look to the 
fut ur e 	 wit h 	 con fidence . 	 T o 	 main tain 	 momen t um , 	 it 	 is 	
important that the Group continues to replenish its 
strategic land bank, particularly given the amount of time 
it takes to develop our sites into mature assets. It was 
therefore pleasing that we were able to raise additional 
equity in March 2017 , by way of a share placing, to 
accelerate the acquisition of sites for our future pipeline.
Jonson Cox 
Chairman 
19 April 2017
“We have a dedicated team of skilled and experienced 
professionals who know how to drive value and income 
from our portfolio.”
Jonson Cox - Chairman
