 2 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 
Chairman’s Statement
“Value and transparency for
customers has delivered good
growth in proﬁt for shareholders”
Dennis Stevenson
Chairman HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 3
As I write in early 2004, it is only too easy to
forget that 2003 was a year heavy with
uncertainty, most obviously collapsing
stockmarkets and the war in Iraq. As it turned
out, trading conditions in many of our
businesses were comparatively benign and it
was another year of opportunity for HBOS.
Value for customers and growth 
for shareholders
A strategy that delivers value and transparency
for customers has delivered good growth in
profits for shareholders, which in 2003, rose
27% to £3,885m. The Board has therefore
decided to recommend a final dividend of
20.6p, bringing the total dividend per share to
30.9p, 5% higher than last year and in line with
the policy of increasing dividend cover to 2.5
times.
For the year as a whole, HBOS shares
outperformed their peers, even after losing
some ground in the second half as the market
worried about rising interest rates.
In Retail, value for money and simplicity
remains a distinctive and compelling
proposition for customers. Once again our
team showed just how to convert the
resultant market share gains into significant
profits growth for shareholders. 
The early achievement of our market share
goal in SME banking and the associated rapid
rise in profits confirms our position as the
only credible Business Banking competitor to
the Big 4. In Corporate Banking credit
conditions are now improving. Our traditional
strategy, so evident in 2002 and 2003, of not
standing back from customers just as their
need and our opportunity is greatest has
therefore paid huge dividends. 
As we extend our General Insurance
capabilities, in motor and household risks, 
so we become better at realising the full
potential of a business where as a low cost
bank with a huge number of customers, we
are particularly well placed to succeed. In
every year of the bear market, our investment
businesses gained market share and improved
efficiency. After a poor start, equity markets
improved over the year and investor
confidence has begun to return. At long last
we now can look forward with more
confidence to improving returns.
Last year we acquired the minority in
BankWest. This enables us to optimise our
investments there by bringing all our Australian
interests closer together as HBOS Australia. I
particularly want to welcome our new
Australian colleagues to HBOS.
In Treasury, serving the internal product needs
of our divisions and our customers has
proved to be a very sensible focus, without
the downside of the more esoteric forays into
wholesale banking that can introduce
unwelcome earnings volatility.
In each of our businesses we have proven
strategies for growth. However, it would be
wrong to pursue growth in all businesses at
all times. So in 2004 the growth emphasis in
HBOS will change, most obviously in Retail
where the case for greater caution is clear.
Embracing regulatory change
We are not among those who rail against the
growing tide of regulation – despite our
having received some £2m of fines from the
FSA for historical inadequacies. Regulation
represents both Society’s consent to our
activities and an opportunity to create
advantage versus our competitors. It is our
job to learn how to live with a huge
regulatory agenda, whether from Europe, the
UK or the USA and in particular to learn from
our mistakes. It is also, I believe, our duty to
be as demanding of the regulator in ensuring
high standards of regulation as they are of us.
Through the inaugural HBOS Governance
Forum and extensive individual consultation,
we have established a much more active
dialogue with investors. Our public support
for the new Higgs regime has been followed
by early adoption in this report of the new
combined code. Each decision on whether to
comply or explain has been determined by
the sole criterion of what is in the interests of
the company and its shareholders. Where we
judge it to be in our shareholders’ interests
for us to explain rather than comply, we will
always eschew the bland “it is in the
shareholders’ interests” in favour of as full
and frank an explanation as possible.
In Scotland, the effects of the merger
continue to be very positive – some 3,000
new jobs have been created and the Scottish
economy is benefiting from one of the largest
companies in the UK being managed and
driven from central Scotland. This said,
merger integration is rarely without problems
and the reaction of some customers, even
former colleagues to our plans to restore our
headquarters on The Mound here in
Edinburgh so as to create an HQ fit for the
21st Century has taught us a lesson in
communication. We have learned from these
experiences and now move on.
After 27 years service with Bank of Scotland
and HBOS, Gordon McQueen, Chief Executive 
of HBOS Treasury Services retired at the end
of 2003. His legacy to HBOS lies in the
creation of a successfully merged Treasury
from the best of the Halifax and Bank of
Scotland operations. He had one of the
toughest jobs following the merger and
leaves with a job well done.
The Board also loses Sir Bob Reid and Louis
Sherwood at the forthcoming AGM. Bob
became a Director of the Bank of Scotland in
1987 and has served as Deputy Governor
since 1997. As the Senior Independent
Director he took to the task of appraising the
Chairman on behalf of the Board with alacrity
and sensitivity, the latter not of course
getting in the way of the desired feedback!
Louis has served with equal distinction since
joining the Board of the Halifax in 1997,
serving on the Board of Clerical Medical as
Chairman and playing a key role on the HBOS
Audit Committee. We will miss their wise
counsel and thank them for their
contributions.
We welcome two new Non-executive
Directors to the Board. As former Senior
Partner in Scotland with Deloitte & Touche,
David Shearer brings broad business and
financial experience. Kate Nealon joins us
from Standard Chartered plc where latterly
she acted as Senior Counsel, Risk &
Regulatory compliance and also brings very
relevant experience to the Board. 
A clear agenda
In the following pages James Crosby and 
his fellow executives chart last year’s
performance in detail and set out a very clear
agenda for 2004. This will also see the Group
reporting results through four divisions;
Retail, Insurance & Investment, Corporate 
and International Operations. The expanded
Retail and Corporate Divisions will take
Business Banking’s growth to the next stage
with Treasury developing its capabilities
within the Corporate Division. The
International Operations Division will bring
together our interests in Ireland and Australia
to provide a focus for future development.
Your Board has confidence in this strategy to
deliver superior value for shareholders. They
would be the first to acknowledge however,
that the real heroes are our 60,000 plus
colleagues who convert strategy into results.
And it is for their efforts, both individual and
collective, that I wish to record the Board’s
greatest appreciation.
Dennis Stevenson
Chairman
