 4 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 
Chief Executive’s Statement
“Last year’s performance
was characterised by
increased market share,
improved efﬁciency and
good growth in proﬁts 
for shareholders”
James Crosby
Chief Executive HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 5
Proﬁt before
tax and
exceptional
items up 27%
to £3,885m 
Creating value for shareholders
HBOS’s distinctive strategy continues to
create value for shareholders and customers.
Our determination to offer customers value
for money and transparency makes HBOS the
most powerful force for competition in UK
financial services. Across HBOS, last year’s
performance was characterised by increased
market share, improved efficiency and good
growth in profits for shareholders. 
Profit before tax and exceptional items 
rose by 27% to £3,885m. Each division
recorded growth in profits with Retail up
19%, Corporate up 21%, Business Banking 
up 32%, Insurance & Investment up 51% and
Treasury up 3%. 
Underlying earnings per share increased 
by 22% to 68.5p. In line with our policy 
of increasing the level of dividend cover to
2.5 times, the Board is proposing a full year
dividend of 30.9p, 5% higher than last year,
which takes underlying dividend cover to 
2.2 times (1.9 in 2002).
The Group RoE rose to 17.7% (15.9% 2002).
As expected, the impact of capital raising
combined with lower underlying returns 
from Insurance & Investment resulted in only
a modest increase in Group Target RoE to
17.7% (2002 17.5%).
A marked acceleration in the growth of
deposits (up 16%), an increased requirement
for wholesale funding and reduced capital
earnings partly offset by improved business
mix were the main reasons for the 6bps
reduction in the Group net interest margin 
to 177bps. Retail and Corporate margins
declined by 9bps and 6bps to 190bps and
171bps respectively. Largely the result of 
a shift in business mix arising from its
expansion, Business Banking margins were
265bps against 295bps in 2002. 
As was the case in 2003, we do not expect
competitive pressures to bear down on
margins in 2004. We therefore expect our
deposit growth ambitions and increased
wholesale funding to result in a not
significantly different movement in the 
Group net interest margin this year.
HBOS’s stable credit performance is a
reflection of the resilient performance of the
UK economy, the effectiveness of our credit
assessment techniques and the comparative
bias within our balance sheet towards higher
quality asset classes. Relative to our UK peers,
we believe we are heavier in residential
mortgages whilst remaining comparatively
light in unsecured personal and SME lending
and in corporate lending. 
Total non-performing assets as a percentage
of advances were unchanged at 1.75% (2002
1.75%). Closing provisions as a percentage of
advances were 0.79% (0.84% end 2002). The
provisions charge of £1,025m (£832m 2002)
sees coverage of non-performing advances 
by total closing provisions and interest in
suspense at 48% (51% in 2002).
Strong income growth, sound cost control
and the realisation of merger synergies
enabled HBOS to achieve further significant
improvements in efficiency with the
cost:income ratio falling to 41.6% against
45.2% in 2002.
The increase in underlying costs of 9%
included £46m as a result of the acquisition
of Rothschild Asset Management, an
additional pension charge of £62m and £30m
in respect of the exchange rate movement on
BankWest’s expenses. For 2004, the growth in
underlying operating expenses is targeted to
be 5% or less.
During 2003, HBOS deployed its capital
resources to support 15% growth in risk
weighted assets, to finance the £436m
acquisition of the BankWest minority and 
to fund the previously disclosed £500m
injection into Clerical Medical. Nonetheless 
a 67% increase in retained earnings, the issue
of £641m of innovative Tier 1 capital and an
increase of £3.7bn in Tier 2 capital saw the
total capital ratio rise from 10.4% to 11.1%.
And at 7.6% (7.9% in 2002) the Tier 1 ratio
remained firmly within our target range.
During 2003, £296m of revenue synergies 
and £286m of cost synergies contributed 
a combined £582m to the Group’s results,
comfortably exceeding the full year target of
£470m. We remain on track to deliver our
target of £800m of merger synergies by 2005.
IT integration is now largely complete and in
particular, the process of decommissioning all
legacy systems in Retail remains on target.
Divisional Performance:
Retail
HBOS’s distinctive consumer strategy
continued to generate strong sales and
income growth from a tightly controlled cost
base. Profit before tax and exceptionals rose
by 19% to £1,698m.
As promised, growth in savings balances
accelerated. Taken together with credit
balances in bank accounts, total balances
increased by £11bn (£7bn in 2002) to £115bn,
increasing HBOS’s share of UK Household
Sector Liquid Assets to an estimated 15.7%
(2002 15.5%).
In 2003 our strategy in the mortgage market
continued to de-emphasise re-mortgages,
given their comparatively unfavourable risk
reward characteristics. Nonetheless, the
collective reach and service quality of the
five HBOS mortgage brands delivered an
above target market share for net mortgage
lending of 25% (target 23%). The average LTV
on new lending fell to 61% (63% 2002) at the
end of the year and the average LTV across
the whole book remained at 43%.
In traditional banking products HBOS
continued to gain at others’ expense with
sales of 1m new credit card accounts and
1.2m bank accounts. These gave us an
estimated 16% market share of new sales 
of credit cards with balances rising 21%. 
An estimated 25% of the “new and switcher”
market in bank accounts helped us to achieve
a 55% growth in credit balances.
As targeted, a substantial increase in
operating income achieved on a stable 
cost base saw Intelligent Finance break even 
in December. For the year as a whole its
losses reduced significantly to £53m from
£147m in 2002.
Retail asset quality remains robust. Non-
performing assets were stable at 1.80% of
closing advances (1.78% 2002). The charge 
for provisions as a percentage of average
advances was 0.30%, 5bps higher than in 2002
with the increase in provisions reflecting both
the changing mix of lending and the normal
ageing of the loan portfolio. 
The Retail cost:income ratio fell to 47.8%
(2002 52.5%), the direct consequence of sales
growth, improved productivity and continuing
tight cost control, as costs grew by 3.2%
(target 3%).
Insurance & Investment
In both Insurance & Investment, in rapidly
consolidating markets, HBOS’s distribution
strength and low cost advantage enabled us
to record further market share gains in the
UK. Sales of general insurance products rose
by 19%. In a contracting market, investment 6 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
product sales were stable as we closed in on
our goal of being No.1 for investment
product sales in the UK. Coupled with a
significant turnround in short-term
fluctuations in investment returns, this
enabled profit before tax and exceptionals to
increase by 51% to £887m. 
Insurance profits rose by 11% to £445m 
as HBOS turned its low cost distribution
advantage directly into value for consumers
and attractive returns for shareholders. 
Sales of household and repayment insurance
products increased by 20% and 9%
respectively, whilst sales of motor insurance
policies were up 69%. esure saw almost
800,000 motor and household policies 
sold and is expected to break even in the 
first half of 2004.
In the 4th quarter we launched two new
developments designed to enhance future
growth. First Alternative, our newest joint
venture with Peter Wood, capitalises on
esure’s existing investment in infrastructure.
By enabling HBOS to meet the needs of non-
standard drivers it extends our distribution
reach for motor insurance. As from the end
of December we started to underwrite our
household insurance business (previously
with Royal & Sun Alliance) and all such
business will transfer to HBOS on renewal
during 2004. As an underwriter, HBOS will
recognise its profits from household
insurance later than was the case as a
commission earning introducer. As disclosed
previously, this will have the one off effect
of reducing reported profits in 2004 by
around £76m.
A significant reduction in negative short-term
fluctuations in investment returns meant that
investment profits rose by 134% to £442m
(£189m in 2002). However, reduced margins
on in force business and assets under
management as a consequence of lower
average stock market levels during the year
and one-off costs associated with the
acquisition of Rothschild Asset Management
saw profits based on long-term assumptions
(i.e. excluding short-term fluctuations and
changes to economic assumptions) fall by
19% to £416m.
Last year we began a significant re-structuring
of our intermediary and bancassurance
operations. To be completed in early 2005,
this will result in a significant enhancement to
the long-term profitability of our investment
business. In the meantime, progress made to
date contributed to the improvement in new
business profitability to 25% of equivalent
premium income (22% in 2002), achieving our
medium term target of 25%.
Bancassurance sales, which rose 21%, once
again underlined the power of simplicity and
value for money, even in difficult investment
product markets. With profits products
accounted for only 8% of Clerical Medical’s
intermediary sales in the UK. Nonetheless,
total UK intermediary sales were resilient,
down just 10%, whilst overall intermediary
sales fell 17% in tough markets. Wealth
management sales showed real signs of
improvement in the second half. Down 
17% at the half year, for the year as a 
whole, sales for St. James’s Place Capital
were only 3% lower than a year earlier, 
as high net worth investors’ confidence
began to recover.
Business Banking
Business Banking started to deliver the
required payback for the major investment
made in taking our SME products and services
into England and Wales. We have achieved
our interim SME market share target of 6%,
one year early. Profit before tax and
exceptionals rose by 32% to £404m.
The newly established business hunters field
force and the direct business bank are both
gaining customers at the expense of our
peers. Customer lending balances increased
by £7.5bn (32%) while deposits grew by 40%
to £17bn. The investment required in people,
systems and infrastructure was substantially
completed in the second half of last year
leading to an 11% increase in underlying
operating expenses in 2003. However, as
targeted, for 2003 as a whole, the cost:income
ratio reduced to 53.0% from 55.7%.
A more stable market in motor residuals
made for better trading from both our motor
finance and contract hire/vehicle management
businesses, both of which benefited from the
withdrawal of key competitors. 
Bank of Scotland (Ireland) has proven to be
particularly successful in challenging the
existing providers of financial services with a
number of product innovations. Bank of
Scotland (Ireland) now has over 19% SME
market share with lending growth of 17% and
growth in deposit balances of 34% in local
currency in 2003.
Growth in Business Banking has not been at
the expense of credit quality. Such strong
growth in assets meant that, as a percentage
of advances, non-performing assets fell to
1.97% (2.21% end 2002) whilst the provisions
charge, as a percentage of average advances,
fell to 0.49% against 0.70% in 2002.
Corporate Banking
Increasingly benign market conditions and
attractive margins allowed Corporate to
sustain momentum without any increase in
risk appetite or a move outside long
established areas of expertise. Profit before
tax and exceptionals rose 21% to £826m.
Customer lending growth (£5.2bn) slowed 
to 11%, the direct result of our improved
capability and success in selling down debt
together with the planned repayment of
some large high profile exposures. The same
strategy saw an acceleration in the growth 
of non-interest income, 26% higher than 
a year earlier. Deposit balances advanced by
43% to £20.2bn.
Accounting for around a third of loans, our
largest industry sector continues to be
construction and property. Our focus here
lies primarily in the property investment
sector where in the first instance the credit
exposure is assessed against quality rental
covenants. We continue to have limited
exposure to commercial developments.
Credit quality was relatively stable which is
reflected in a slightly reduced provisions
charge of 0.70% of average advances (0.72% in
2002). Non-performing assets were 1.65% of
advances (1.56% at end 2002). 
A long standing reputation for innovation,
coupled with the ability to make things
happen, have enabled Corporate to seize the
huge opportunities presented by the creation
of HBOS. In the process we have built market
leading positions, most notably with our
Structured Finance, Integrated Finance and
Joint Venture offerings where our positioning
as the “one stop shop” for the full range of
underlying banking products continues to be
a clear source of competitive advantage. 
Treasury
Treasury profit before tax and exceptionals 
of £239m were 3% above those achieved 
last year. Growth in sales of Treasury products
to the HBOS Group and its customers 
Underlying
earnings per
share up 22%
to 68.5p  HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 7
(up 65% on a like for like basis) very largely
offset a decline in the wholesale interest
margin and enabled Treasury to sustain 
2002’s performance.
Our Treasury operation is focused on the
generation of high quality earnings. In 2003,
70% of revenues were derived from the
management of funding and liquidity and 
the provision of products and services to the
HBOS Group and its customers. Consistent
with such an internally focused strategy, asset
quality is very strong. We avoid sub
investment grade investments and at the end
of 2003, over 99% of our total portfolio was
rated A or above. No credit provisions were
required in the period.
HBOS Treasury Services was very active in
funding for the Group, successfully launching
the first two covered bond issues in the UK
market as well as raising £11.5bn from
mortgage securitisations.
BankWest
Last year saw BankWest’s profits recover
strongly, rising 25% in local currency. Strong
growth in both retail and business lending,
coupled with robust margins and an
improving credit experience, all contributed
to this step-change in performance.
In September HBOS completed the
acquisition of the minority in BankWest. 
We are currently engaged in bringing
BankWest closer together with our other
Australian activities, BOSIAL, Capital Finance
and St. Andrew’s Insurance, to create HBOS
Australia. This will greatly enhance our ability
to create value for shareholders from our
Australian assets.
Outlook and prospects
As previously announced, the Group is 
now organised around four Divisions; Retail,
Insurance & Investment, Corporate and
International Operations. The results for 
2004 (with re-stated comparatives for 2003)
will be presented on this basis.
The UK economy is strengthening and the
interest rate cycle has turned. However,
despite the increase in public sector
spending, the need to achieve a smooth
transition from consumer to investment led
growth points to only modest rate rises. 
Low interest rates, a benign employment
market and the shortage of housing stock 
will continue to underpin the housing market
in 2004. And indeed the market has seen 
a buoyant start to the year. Even so, after 
3 years of a strong housing market, there is 
no room for complacency. We have, and will
continue to tighten our lending criteria. In the
short-term therefore, this will be reflected in
HBOS’s mortgage strategy where we now
expect to trade at or, if appropriate, below
our stock share for net lending (23%).
The rate of growth in demand for unsecured
personal credit has slowed. Although there
are few signs of deterioration in retail credit
conditions, here too we remain vigilant for
any contrary indicators.
We do not expect corporate credit
conditions to deteriorate. Our work in
progress remains strong and we expect 
to benefit from a further recovery in
corporate activity.
More stable equity markets should see
confidence gradually return to investment
product markets. More specifically the
significant reduction in demand for with
profits products and the advent of
depolarisation both favour HBOS’s multi-
brand distribution led strategy. 
Both the UK and European authorities are
proposing extensive regulatory change,
stretching from capital adequacy to treating
customers fairly. Regardless of the scale of
such change, which should in any case favour
larger companies such as HBOS, it is
important that everything we do runs with
the grain of regulatory policy. Indeed our
shareholders have every right to demand that
we regard regulation as another opportunity
to create comparative advantage versus 
our competitors.
As we complete the task of extracting the
promised merger synergies, so 2004 should
see HBOS reach some important financial
benchmarks. With cost growth restricted to
5%, the underlying cost:income ratio is
expected to fall through 40%. As promised at
the time of the 2002 capital raising, retained
earnings will be capable of supporting double
digit balance sheet growth without straining
the Tier 1 ratio. Most important of all, 2 years
of strong asset growth with significant gains
in efficiency and now an acceleration in non-
interest income, should see us reach our
benchmark return on equity (20%). Under
current industry structures, we regard these
benchmarks as sustainable. 
The inherent growth characteristics of UK
financial services will be the backdrop for
HBOS growth beyond 2004, particularly as 
UK market shares re-align in the aftermath 
of consolidation. As a number of competitors
also look outside the UK for their primary
growth prospects, the opportunities increase
for a strong HBOS to grow at the expense of
the competition.
James Crosby
Chief Executive
Dividend 
per share up
5% to 30.9p 
