 6 Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010
I would like to begin by welcoming all those new
shareholders who supported us in our recent
fundraising and enabled us to make our maiden
acquisition in the UK aggregates sector.  I would
also like to thank those of you who have been with
us since the creation of Marwyn Materials and
waited patiently for us to secure our first platform
investment, including our largest investor,
Marwyn Capital, whose innovative investment
strategy lay behind the genesis of our business.
Our purchase of Breedon Holdings and the creation
of Breedon Aggregates on 6 September 2010
represented a unique opportunity to secure a firm
foothold in a sector where substantial assets
become available very rarely.  In doing so, we
immediately took our place as the UK’s largest
independent aggregates producer after the five
global majors, with some 180 million tonnes of
mineral reserves and resources – enough to last us
more than 50 years at current rates of production.
Y ou will find a detailed overview of the Group, our
products and the markets we serve on pages 2 to
5 of this report.
We hit the ground running as soon as the
acquisition was completed.  Within the first
month we had completely rebranded the new
group and met the great majority of our 700
employees at a series of roadshows in England
and Scotland.  We were surprised and delighted
by how positively our arrival was received and
even more pleased at the near 100 per cent take-
up of our offer to each employee of 500 free
shares in the new company, which means that
almost every one of our colleagues now has a
personal stake in the future of our business. I
extend a special welcome to you all.
Our Group Chief Executive, Simon Vivian, and his
team made great strides towards repositioning
the Group in the first three months under our
ownership.  The senior management team was
strengthened, a number of early operational
improvements were made and we embarked on
a rigorous programme of health and safety
initiatives to ensure a safer working environment
for everyone in the business.
In trading terms, 2010 presented a mixed picture.
Sales volumes in England were ahead of the
previous year, whilst those in Scotland were
slightly down, both impacted heavily by the
severe weather in December.  Nevertheless, we
were pleased to report a satisfactory outturn for
the full year, with pro forma EBITDA of £13.7
million on pro forma revenues of £143.8 million.
Year-end borrowings at £92.3 million were lower
than our expectations and we remain focused on
reducing this debt as quickly as possible.  I would
particularly like to thank our lending banks, led by
Barclays, for their constructive support following
completion of the acquisition.
You will find a detailed review of Breedon
Aggregates’ progress during the year in your
Group Chief Executive’s Review on pages 9 to 11
of this report.
In October, we took steps to strengthen the
Board and were pleased to welcome Ian Peters
as Group Finance Director and Susie Farnon as
an independent non-executive director.  Ian is
highly experienced in our industry, having worked
in senior positions within Hanson for many years.
He joined the senior management team of
Marwyn Materials in 2008 and worked closely
with us on the acquisition of Breedon Holdings.
Chairman’s Statement
BREEDON AGGREGATES
"Our objective is simple. We want to be the most profitable
business in the UK aggregates industry" 7 Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Susie was formerly banking and finance partner
and head of audit with KPMG Channel Islands
and is a Commissioner of the Guernsey Financial
Services Commission. On behalf of shareholders,
I would like to welcome them both to the Board.
Looking ahead, our objective is simple.  We want
to be the most profitable business in the UK
aggregates industry.  We will achieve this by
being nimble and flexible, and above all by
providing a higher value local service than our
competitors.  Evidence of the success of this
strategy is already apparent: we have been
consistently winning new business around the
Group and our commercial teams are highly
motivated and energetically pursuing every
opportunity available to them.
There is no doubt that 2011 will continue to be
very challenging, as the UK economy struggles to
return to sustainable growth. We also face the
challenge of sharply rising oil prices: these have a
significant impact on the cost of bitumen, gas oil
and diesel, which takes time for us to pass
through in our pricing. However, with the UK and
Scottish Comprehensive Spending Reviews
behind us, we have at least been able to plan
ahead with greater clarity. It is obviously difficult
to predict within any certainty exactly where public
spending cuts will fall in the current year, but the
UK manufacturing sector is showing a steady
recovery and we remain optimistic about the
prospects for the private sector generally.  I am
confident that we have the right assets in place –
in terms of people, minerals and management –
to deliver a resilient performance even if the
economic recovery takes longer than expected
and to take full advantage of the market upturn
when it comes.
I said at the outset that Breedon Aggregates
represents a platform for growth.  We are
ambitious to develop the Group both organically
and through bolt-on acquisitions of earnings-
accretive aggregates businesses.  To this end,
we continue to pursue several potential
prospects and believe that promising
opportunities will also be created by the
continuing consolidation of the UK aggregates
industry in the year ahead.
I would like to close by thanking every one of our
employees for the enthusiasm and commitment
they have shown since we took control of the
Group.  Breedon Aggregates in its various forms
has a long and distinguished heritage in the UK
aggregates industry and I have been personally
struck on many occasions by the pride and
dedication of our people.  They have earned the
appreciation of every member of the Board and
senior management team and we all look
forward to working together to secure the
promising future which we all believe lies ahead
for our business.
Peter Tom CBE
Executive Chairman
30 March 2011
