 Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010 8
"Our strategic imperatives will be: safety of
our employees, service to our customers
and value for our shareholders." Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010 9
Our Business
Breedon Aggregates is the UK’s largest
independent quarrying business with 23 quarries,
18 asphalt plants and 27 ready-mixed concrete
plants. Operations in England extend from East
Anglia, across the Midlands to mid-Wales. In
Scotland, we have a strong regional presence
everywhere north of the Glasgow/Edinburgh M8
corridor. We have consented mineral reserves of
95 million tonnes, sufficient for 27 years’ life at
current production rates. We also control a
further 85 million tonnes of resources subject to
planning. During the year we succeeded in
getting planning consents for a further 4 million
tonnes at our Cloud Hill quarry. 
In the full year we sold 3.6 million tonnes of
aggregates, 1.2 million tonnes of asphalt and
0.27 million cubic metres of concrete. We also
manufacture a number of speciality products
including the famous Breedon Golden Amber
gravel which holds the Royal Warrant and has
recently been specified for use on the pathways
of the 2012 Olympic village.
In the UK, the market is dominated by Tarmac
(owned by Anglo American) and 4 global cement
companies: Lafarge (French), Heidelberg (German),
Cemex (Mexican) and Holcim (Swiss). We take
pride in the fact that we are a British company,
based in the Midlands, focused on providing quality
materials to our local customers. Our head office,
regional offices and sales offices are all located in
our quarries which means that staff at all levels are
close to the day-to-day operations of the business.
We believe that our local presence enables us to
respond quickly and effectively to our customers’
needs, and central administrative functions are kept
to a minimum so that maximum resource can be
deployed in production and sales.
The barriers to entry in the UK aggregates market
are high. Restrictions on development and
planning have meant that virtually no new rock
quarries have been started for many years.
Opportunities to acquire these businesses are
rare and we believe that our shareholders have
been fortunate to secure a significant presence
in the market on attractive terms. 
Operational changes 
Good progress has been made in repositioning
the Group for the future and tackling the issues
associated with the underperforming business in
England, where market share has been lost and
margins are significantly below those achieved in
Scotland. Tim Hall, a former Tarmac director,
joined us in October as Chief Executive of the
English business. A number of other senior
appointments have followed and we are currently
recruiting a replacement safety manager as
performance in this area has not been acceptable
in the English business. We now have the team
in place to deliver the improvements needed over
the next few years. The business in Scotland
continues to be led by Alan Mackenzie and we
will be looking to build on the success that this
region has achieved historically.
Chief Executive’s Review
BREEDON AGGREGATES
Breedon Aggregates was established in September 2010 when Marwyn Materials Limited acquired the business from a banking
group led by Barclays Bank PLC, which had owned it since the former Ennstone plc went into administration in March 2009.
The directors and management team believe that the terms of the agreement with the banks, and the partial refinancing of
the business, mean that we are in a strong position to improve performance and take advantage of further opportunities to
grow through additional investment and acquisition.  Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010 10
Chief Executive’s Review (cont) 
BREEDON AGGREGATES
We launched Breedon Aggregates with a series
of staff presentations in September which were
extremely well received and we were delighted
with the positive response to our vision for the
future. We have a loyal, motivated and flexible
workforce which is a great foundation for us to
build on.
Following the refinancing of the business, we
have been able to improve procurement and
renegotiate credit terms with some key
suppliers, reducing working capital. The
rebranding of the business is complete with all
costs taken in 2010. A new website has also
recently been launched.
A large amount of surplus plant and equipment
has been sold and we are working on several
land disposals, some of which should be
concluded in the current year. We have
commenced a review of our haulage fleet with
the intention of improving efficiency. The
contracting business in England has been
reorganised and scaled back. The reduced cost
base, together with greater local focus, will
improve the performance of this division in the
coming year.
We have introduced the “Best of Breedon” award
scheme which encourages employees to come up
with ideas to improve our business. A tremendous
response was received to the inaugural
competition and 4 winners received prizes. A
second competition has recently been launched.
A scheme to improve the operational,
environmental and safety standards at all of our
quarries is to be launched shortly. The Breedon
“GoodQuarry” project will be focused on raising
standards at all of our units, where we see the
scope for significant improvement.
Trading Summary
Pro forma Group turnover for 2010 was 6.2%
higher than the previous year. This increase was
driven by the English business where sales
volumes of all products were ahead of 2009.
Snow and freezing temperatures affected activity
in January and December, particularly in Scotland.
The poor weather led to many sites closing early
in December and material deliveries fell away
sharply after the first week. Our associate
company, BEAR Scotland, which maintains the
trunk road network in the north east and south
east of Scotland, had significant additional costs
and incurred losses in the month of December. 
Selling  prices of most products increased during
the year ahead of inflation, but this was
insufficient to offset haulage, bitumen and fuel
cost increases and as a result pro forma
underlying EBITDA (before our share of
associated undertakings) for the 12 months
declined by £2.8 million to  £13.7 million;
however this was in line with the result
anticipated when we undertook our due diligence
in August 2010. Further price increases were
notified to our customers in January and March
2011 to try and recover these costs.
A number of major contracts were supplied
during the year including the Rolls Royce factory
near Derby, and a major road reconstruction at
Fochabers near Elgin in Scotland. House building
picked up from the very low levels experienced in
2009 and a number of customers, including
Barratt and Westleigh, were supplied with
aggregates and ready-mixed concrete. In general,
we saw a sustained recovery in private sector
construction while the public sector was
extremely busy in the run up to the general
election but slowed gradually throughout the rest
of the year. Breedon Aggregates   Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
As with most aggregates businesses, our customer
base is broad and covers both public and private
sectors. The business in England has a greater
exposure to the private sector and maintenance
markets while Scotland has greater exposure to
government spending through its contracts with
BEAR Scotland and Scotland Transerv which both
work directly for Transport Scotland. We estimate
the proportion of our business that is related to the
public sector to be 60% in Scotland and 25% in
England. A major success was achieved in winning
the framework contract for Scottish Water and the
benefit of this will build up during 2011.
Our strategy
We aim to be the safest, most profitable and best
run aggregates business in the UK. Our strategic
imperatives will be: safety of our employees,
service to our customers and value for our
shareholders. We will develop and build close
trading relationships with our key customers and
seek to continuously improve our service levels
to them. The culture of our group will be
entrepreneurial, agile and responsive. We can
take decisions quickly and will not allow
bureaucracy to inhibit the internal or external
management of the business.
The acquisition of Breedon provides us with a
great platform to build on and we believe that
there will be significant opportunities to grow the
business, both through acquisition and greenfield
development. A number of opportunities are
currently being reviewed but we will only make
additional investments where we are confident
that value for shareholders can be created.
The recent announcement by Tarmac and
Lafarge that they intend to merge their
operations in the UK is likely to result in a number
of disposals to meet regulatory requirements and
this could present an opportunity for us.
Business outlook
We believe that private sector construction
activity will continue to grow in 2011. The early
part of the year has been busy as work delayed
from last year is completed. We have secured a
number of contracts, including the A9 trunk road
improvement scheme at Crubenmore in
Scotland.
The likely effect of the spending review on local
authority maintenance budgets is difficult to
predict. Our exposure to this is greater in
Scotland but the severe weather has further
degraded the condition of the roads and
triggered a political rethink on the proposed
expenditure cuts. In addition, elections to the
Scottish parliament in May mean that the SNP
government will want to be seen to be reacting
to public concerns about road maintenance.
The latest Construction Products Association
forecasts for the UK expect output to decline by
2% in 2011 and 0.7% in 2012 before increasing
by 1.6% and 2.6% in the following two years.
The government has recently announced an
additional £100 million of funding to tackle
emergency road repairs in England and the
importance of maintaining core infrastructure
seems to be increasingly recognised by the main
political parties. Our view of the markets that we
operate in is that volumes will fall slightly in
Scotland and increase slightly in England.
Despite the market uncertainty and the volatility
in oil related input costs, we aim to deliver
improved results in 2011.
Simon Vivian
Group Chief Executive
30 March 2011
