 8
2011
BREEDON AGGREGATES
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
OUR STRATEGY 
is to continue to win new business in a very competitive
market by remaining nimble and flexible, and providing
a high-value local service to our customers 9
In our first full year as Breedon Aggregates we have been
clearly focused on adding strength to our business. We
have significantly increased our mineral reserves,
extended our geographical reach, secured critical mass in
our English ready-mixed concrete business and returned
our English contracting operation to profit. We can draw
considerable satisfaction from these achievements, whilst
recognising that the market remains challenging and we
must continue to drive the business hard to deliver the
returns our shareholders expect from us.
The highlight of the year was undoubtedly our acquisition
in July of the C&G Concrete business, the leading ready-
mixed concrete producer in Lincolnshire, which also has
some of the most substantial and highest-quality sand
and gravel reserves to be found anywhere in the UK. This
was an excellent purchase, which has already made a
positive contribution in the year under review, and we are
well on the way to exploiting the significant synergies it
offers with our operations in the East Midlands. 
C&G’s extensive sand and gravel reserves added some 24
million tonnes to the Group’s total reserves and resources
in 2011, which now stand at nearly 200 million tonnes,
enough to last some 48 years at current rates of extraction.
In addition, we secured planning consent for 12 million
tonnes of aggregates at one of our key English quarries.
Despite very competitive trading conditions, sales volumes
held up well, with growth across all product groups in both
England and Scotland. We are pleased to report a very
satisfactory EBITDA of £17.1 million on revenues of £168.9
million, with a return to underlying profit before tax of £1.5
million. Year-end borrowings at £96.2 million mask a steady
reduction in our underlying debt, with the reported increase
reflecting the £10.8 million outlay on our acquisition of C&G.
You will find a detailed review of Breedon Aggregates’
progress during the year in your Group Chief Executive’s
review on pages 10 to 12 of this report. I will confine
myself here to highlighting the considerable
achievements of the management team in reducing
costs, eliminating losses across the business, improving
procurement and credit terms, and recovering all major
raw material cost increases over the year.
I would also like to highlight the encouraging progress made
in all areas of health and safety. Much has been achieved,
but there is still much to do. This remains the number-one
item on our board agenda and there will be no relaxation in
our efforts to achieve ‘Zero Harm’ in all our operations.
Looking ahead, our objective remains the same: to be the
safest, most profitable and best run aggregates business
in the UK. The operational improvements we have made
in the last year have set us on the right trajectory. 
The outlook for 2012 presents a mixed picture following
the reversal of GDP growth in the final quarter of 2011.
The Construction Products Association anticipates a 3.6
per cent fall in construction output over the year as a
whole and the full impact of public sector spending cuts is
now beginning to be felt, particularly in Scotland.
However, the increases in English housing and
infrastructure spending announced by the Government in
its autumn statement are very welcome and, provided
reality matches expectation, should have a positive
impact on demand for our products in the medium term.
More importantly, we believe that our proven ability to be
flexible and nimble, providing a high-value local service to
a wide range of private and public sector customers, will
enable us to continue to win new business even in a
highly competitive market.
Furthermore, we believe there is significant scope to
further expand the Group and we remain committed to
securing additional bolt-on acquisitions of earnings-
enhancing aggregates related businesses. The current
market conditions are definitely creating opportunities to
purchase assets at realistic prices and several acquisition
opportunities remain under review, and we were pleased
to announce the acquisition of Nottingham Readymix in
January 2012. 
The decision by the OFT to refer Britain’s aggregates,
cement and ready-mixed concrete markets to the
Competition Commission for investigation will inevitably
create some uncertainty in the industry pending publication
of the Commission’s report, due at the latest by January
2014.  We have submitted a summary of our views to the
Commission and continue to believe that any conclusions it
might reach are more likely than not to create opportunities
for us in the longer term. 
In closing, I would like to acknowledge that none of our
achievements over the past year would have been possible
without the unstinting dedication and hard work of our 800
employees. I am particularly delighted that our financial
performance in 2011 enabled us to show our appreciation
in a more tangible form with the payment of a modest
Christmas bonus, the first in many years. I recognise that
many of you reading this are shareholding employees and,
on behalf of the Board, I would like to thank you for all your
outstanding efforts over the past year.
We have every expectation of making further progress in
the year ahead.
Peter Tom CBE
Executive Chairman
6 March 2012
