 10
2011
BREEDON AGGREGATES
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OUR OBJECTIVE 
remains unchanged: to be the safest, most profitable 
and best-run aggregates business in the UK 11
I am very pleased to report that we have made substantial
progress on a number of fronts in our first full year of
trading following the creation of Breedon Aggregates in
September 2010. The business has been stabilised
following a difficult period under bank ownership and we
have returned the English business to profit while
maintaining a robust performance in Scotland where
market conditions have been particularly difficult. I am
especially pleased that our improved trading performance
allowed us to pay a modest bonus to all employees in
December in recognition of their hard work during the year.
OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS
At the beginning of the year, we identified a number of key
priorities that needed to be addressed if the business was to
perform to our expectations in 2011 and beyond. First
amongst these was the reorganisation of the management
team in England under the direction of the new Chief
Executive, Tim Hall. The necessary changes were
implemented early in the first quarter of the year and the new
team moved quickly to eliminate the significant contracting
losses of the previous year, improve customer service and
recover market share lost during the disruption of the
administration of the previous parent company in 2009. We
now have experienced and proven management teams in
both England and Scotland, which gives me great confidence
in our ability to take the business forward in the years ahead.
In July, we made our first acquisition, buying Lincolnshire-
based C&G Concrete from the administrator for £10.8
million, following an insolvency process. This business
had been a target for some time and we had been in
discussions with the owners prior to its administration.
C&G comprises 3 sand and gravel quarries and 12 ready-
mixed concrete and mortar plants and has identified
mineral reserves and resources of 24 million tonnes. The
acquisition is strategically important for us for three
reasons: geographically, it links our business in East
Anglia with our units in the East Midlands; it gives us
critical mass in concrete, more than doubling the number
of plants in our English business; and, most importantly, it
provides us with an internal source of sand which we
previously had to buy in from competitors. The business
has already been rebranded, was fully integrated into our
systems early in 2012 and we are confident that it will
prove to be an excellent acquisition for us.
We achieved another major success by securing planning
consent for an additional 12 million tonnes of granite at
Leaton near Telford, which is our second-largest quarry.
This gives us more than 30 years’ life at this important
operation and, with the future now secure, we have
committed additional investment in a major fixed plant
upgrade to expand capacity and improve productivity at
the site. The engineering work will be completed in the
first quarter of 2012. We are actively pursuing a number of
other planning applications across the Group and expect to
further strengthen our mineral reserves in the current year.
The poor safety culture of the business was a key area of
concern when we took over in September 2010 and we
undertook a radical overhaul of health and safety throughout
the business during the year. We replaced the safety
manager in the English business and introduced a number
of initiatives to improve training and increase awareness of
safety issues. A key feature of our new approach to safety
is our Visible Felt Leadership programme, in which senior
management, from the Group Chief Executive down, take a
direct and proactive involvement in getting out and
spreading the message about the standards we expect
from everyone in our business. The introduction of Breedon
Basics has also reinforced minimum acceptable safety
standards in key areas across the Group. All executive
directors and senior managers now have an allocated
number of site safety audits to undertake annually. We have
succeeded in reducing our accident frequency rate, but are
still above the industry average and this is something we
need to improve in the future.
During the year, we managed to normalise procurement
credit terms with all our key suppliers. Following the
financial difficulties of the former Ennstone group, the
business had only been given short credit or cash terms
from most suppliers. We are now on normal credit terms
with our suppliers of bitumen, cement, aggregates and
utilities. This has helped improve our cash flow and
reduce working capital. We have also succeeded in
reducing insurance costs for the business.
The Best of Breedon business improvement scheme, in
which employees come up with practical ideas for how to
do things better, has gone from strength to strength. 
The most recent programme produced more than 80
suggestions from a wide range of employees at all levels.
There were five winners, including two from the recently-
acquired C&G business, who came up with some excellent
suggestions to improve productivity, safety and security.
Our Breedon GoodQuarry scheme was introduced in
March 2011 to raise operational standards across the
Group, identify best practice and highlight units that are
under performing in a number of key areas including:
safety, environment, planning compliance, plant
maintenance, operating efficiency and community
relations. Base case audits were undertaken during the
first half of the year and revealed a wide variation in
standards across the Group. Several units were very good
and were immediately awarded GoodQuarry status, but
others scored poorly. Improvement plans have been
implemented in preparation for reaudit in 2012.
TRADING SUMMARY
The year got off to a very strong start following the snow
disruption in December 2010, as contractors tried to
make up lost time. Local authorities, the Highways
Agency and Transport Scotland were also busy, as they
spent the last of their budgets before the start of the new
financial year in April and the imposition of Government
spending cuts. Consequently, sales volumes of most
products were 10 per cent or more above the previous
year in the first quarter. Although activity slowed from the
second quarter, sales revenue for the year increased by
17.5 per cent over the pro forma sales revenue for 2010
to £168.9 million. Sales volumes in all products were
ahead of the previous year. C&G made a useful positive
contribution in its initial period of ownership. 12
2011
BREEDON AGGREGATES
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
TRADING SUMMARY (continued) 
The rapidly escalating oil price in the early part of the year
represented a major challenge for the business. A
significant proportion of our costs is directly linked to
hydrocarbons and, in the case of asphalt, represents
nearly 60 per cent of the total selling price. Other costs
also increased as suppliers sought to recover rises in their
own energy costs. In addition, the introduction of the new
carbon reduction tax in April cost approximately £500,000
in the year. These factors combined to produce a
significant step change in the cost base of the business in
the early part of 2011. To recover these costs, we notified
three price increases and, despite the difficult market
conditions, we were successful in passing these on to
customers, although there is always a time lag and full
recovery can take several months as fixed price contracts
are worked out. 
Underlying EBITDA for the year increased by 24.8 per
cent over the pro forma EBITDA for 2010 to £17.1 million
(before associated undertakings) and EBITDA margin
improved from 9.5 per cent to 10.1 per cent, which
represents a significant achievement in an environment of
high cost inflation.The improvement was driven by a
strong recovery in the English business, compensating for
much tougher conditions in Scotland, where we supply
two of the four available term maintenance contracts in a
year when maintenance budgets were cut by 40 per cent.
A number of major contracts were supplied during the
year including, in England: the supply of over 50,000 cubic
metres of concrete to the new East Midlands distribution
centre of Marks & Spencer; some 21,000 tonnes of
asphalt to the Hethel race circuit and 13,000 tonnes to the
Loughborough Eastern Gateway. In addition, we secured
a major new annual supply contract for the C&G business
to the Marshalls block paving factory at Stainton. 
In Scotland, we supplied over 55,000 tonnes of asphalt
and over 20,000 cubic metres of lean mix concrete to two
major road contracts at Fochabers, near Elgin, and
Crubenmore on the A9. Both contracts went well,
although margins were lower than expected as they were
secured at the end of 2010, before the increase in oil
prices. We also supplied almost 12,000 tonnes of asphalt
to Dundee Airport and almost 13,000 cubic metres of
ready-mixed concrete to a new warehouse for Amazon
near Kinross.
OUR STRATEGY
Our objective remains unchanged: to be the safest, most
profitable and best-run aggregates business in the UK.
We have made huge progress in 2011, but there remains
much to do. The levels of service we offer our customers
can be improved further and costs need to be rigorously
controlled to ensure product margins are maximised. We
are looking at a number of new products and internal
development opportunities which we believe will improve
our product offering and add value to the business.
We now have an excellent platform for future growth and
a number of acquisition opportunities and greenfield
developments are currently under review. Since the year-
end we have completed the acquisition of Nottingham
Readymix, the leading independent producer of concrete
in the Nottingham area, significantly strengthening our
readymix position in the East Midlands. We hope to
complete further deals in 2012, but will only invest if we
are confident that additional value can be created for
shareholders. We are constantly on the lookout for good
people who can help us grow the business.
The proposed merger of Tarmac and Lafarge has been
referred by the OFT to the Competition Commission, with
a decision expected during the first half of this year. The
industry is expecting significant disposals to be required if
the deal goes ahead and we continue to monitor the
situation closely.
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
The general outlook for the UK continues to be affected
by worries about Eurozone debt issues and declining
growth in many western European countries. On the
positive side, inflation is falling and we do not expect a
repeat of the step change in input costs experienced last
year. Oil prices however remain volatile amid concerns
about the situation in the Middle East and we have been
notified of a 15 per cent increase in bitumen prices from 1
March 2012, which will be passed on to our customers.
We expect the first quarter to be quieter than the
corresponding period last year, which was exceptionally
busy following the backlog of work after the severe
winter, the additional pothole funding provided by the
government and generally higher levels of public
expenditure in advance of the spending cuts
implemented in April 2011. Thereafter we anticipate
reasonable activity levels, supported by a modest
recovery in the housing sector and continuing investment
in retail and commercial construction. There are a number
of large contracts breaking in our markets, including the
expansion of the Nottingham tram network, the Corby
ring road, Peterhead Prison and improvements at
Inverness Airport. Our Scottish business will continue to
be affected by reduced spending by Transport Scotland
while, in the medium term, the English business should
benefit from the infrastructure spending plans announced
in the autumn statement.
Overall we are confident that we will make further
progress in 2012. We have a stable, experienced and
motivated management team and remain confident in our
ability to deliver an improved performance without any
significant recovery in our key markets.
Simon Vivian
Group Chief Executive
6 March 2012 13
Breedon Aggregates is the largest independent aggregates business
in the UK. Our 20 hardstone quarries in England and Scotland produced
around 3.9 million tonnes of crushed rock in 2011 and following the
acquisition of C&G we also produced a total of around 0.4 million
tonnes of aggregates from our 6 sand and gravel quarries.
