 12
THE GROWTH STORY CONTINUES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
TRADING SUMMARY
2012 will be remembered as one of the most
difficult years in living memory for the UK building
materials and construction industries. Poor
demand, record rainfall in the second quarter of the
year and Jubilee/Olympics holidays meant that
national UK sales volumes of aggregates declined
by around 10%, asphalt by 17% and concrete by
9% in the year. UK consumption of primary
aggregates is now at the same level as the mid-
1960s and more than 50% below the peak year of
1989. Several of our competitors have had to
announce unit closures, staff redundancies and
profit warnings. It is welcome to see the
government finally recognising the importance of
infrastructure in the Chancellor’s Autumn
Statement and launching a number of initiatives
that we hope will help to get Britain building again
in 2013 and 2014.
Against this backdrop, Breedon has performed
extremely well, making good progress in both
England and Scotland, improving underlying
earnings in both divisions and delivering excellent
performances from our three recent acquisitions,
C&G Concrete, Nottingham Readymix and Rothes
Glen quarry.
Breedon Aggregates continued to make solid progress in 2012 despite extremely difficult market
conditions that have seen significant declines in the national demand for all main product categories in the
UK. Through a combination of tight cost control and careful selection of work we have managed to improve
headline and underlying EBITDA in both England and Scotland, improving margins from 10.1% to 11.6% on
revenue which was 3% ahead of last year, including acquisitions. This represents a very considerable
achievement and reflects the hard work and dedication of all our employees and I am delighted that we
were again able to thank them all with the payment of a modest Christmas bonus in December.  13
Sales revenue for the year was £173.5 million, 3%
higher than 2011 and Group EBITDA of £20.2
million was 18% above the previous year. Margins
improved by 1.5%, which represents an
outstanding achievement in a declining market.
Careful work selection, tight cost control and
increased operational productivity have all
contributed to the improved result for the year. We
have worked hard to develop an ethos of “self-
help”, recognising that we cannot rely on a growing
market to take the business forward. 
Sales volumes of aggregates increased by 5% to
4.3 million tonnes, asphalt volumes declined by
13% to 1.2 million tonnes, slightly less than the
national reduction, while concrete volumes
increased by 18% to 0.5 million cubic metres,
reflecting the contribution from C&G. Excluding the
effect of acquisitions, aggregates volumes fell by
1% and concrete volumes were down by 5%,
mainly due to a very large contract supplied in 2011
which was not repeated in 2012. 
Several significant contracts were supplied during
the year, including Tesco at West Bromwich and
the A41 in England, and the Fife ITS, Peterhead
Prison and the Trump golf project in Scotland.
Although these contracts made an important
contribution, they represent a relatively small
percentage of our total sales. We are increasingly
looking to supply smaller local customers with
whom we can develop close working relationships
and who tend to generate repeat business in our
market area. We try to compete with the major
suppliers by offering competitive prices but with
better service and support, which we believe
differentiates us from the larger global companies.
OPERATING REVIEW
During the year we continued to build on the solid
foundations established in 2011. We have an
experienced, motivated and stable management
team which gives me great confidence that we can
continue to further improve the business in 2013
and beyond. 14
THE GROWTH STORY CONTINUES
One of our key objectives for the year was to
improve our safety performance, which had
deteriorated significantly in the period immediately
preceding our acquisition of the business in 2010.
The key performance indicator we use is the Lost
Time Incident Frequency Rate (LTIFR) which
measures the number of lost time incidents per
200,000 hours worked. Our target was to reduce
this by 50% in 2012 and I am delighted that we
managed to achieve this. We will be aiming for a
further significant reduction in 2013.
It is pleasing to report operational progress on all
fronts in 2012 and the business today looks very
different to the one that emerged following
Ennstone’s administration in 2009. Sales revenue
has grown on the back of several successful
acquisitions, EBITDA and operating profit are well
ahead and net debt has been significantly reduced.
We continue to invest in the asset base of our
business whilst ensuring that capital expenditure
remains well below depreciation, allowing us to
reduce net debt year-on-year in line with our stated
strategy. A number of significant projects were
completed during the year, including a new asphalt
plant at our Stirlinghill quarry near Peterhead and a
new mobile concrete plant to support the
successful development of Mobile Concrete
Solutions, the joint arrangement we launched in
Scotland to take advantage of the significant on-
going investment in wind farms and renewable
energy. In England we replaced much of the old
mobile plant acquired with C&G and refreshed its
transport fleet with the acquisition of new and
second-hand tippers and mixers. We also relocated
the C&G sales office from rented premises in
Stamford to our Norton Bottoms quarry. This is
consistent with our strategy of having all support
functions located on our own sites, close to
operations and avoiding external rental costs.
A key part of our strategy is to actively sell surplus
assets to generate cash and reduce debt. In
September 2010 we set ourselves the target of
generating £20 million in disposals by 2015 and we
are on track to achieve this. During the year we
sold surplus land and equipment worth £6.2 million,
which brings our running total to nearly £10 million
since our acquisition of the business.
Two small acquisitions were completed during the
year. In January we purchased the business of
Nottingham Readymix, a leading supplier of
concrete in the Nottingham market which has
been buoyant due particularly to the tram project
and continuing investment at the university. The
business also provides an important fixed outlet 15
for sand and gravel from the Norton Bottoms
gravel pit acquired with C&G in 2011. In July we
acquired Rothes Glen sand and gravel quarry near
Elgin, east of Inverness. This complements our
Netherglen rock quarry two miles away and
provides an important source of sand for our
ready-mixed concrete business in the area. Our
new mini mix service, 1stMix, launched in the
spring made solid progress building market share
and moved into profit in October. We are confident
of further progress in 2013.
After nearly twelve months of preparation, the
auction of the assets that Tarmac and Lafarge were
required to divest in order to proceed with their
joint venture was finally concluded. Breedon
undertook a detailed review of the Hope cement
plant and other assets being sold. A number of
significant risk areas were identified which
impacted our valuation of the business and
consequently we were unable to meet the value
expectations of the vendors. We continue to
evaluate a number of other opportunities but, as
we have frequently stated, we will only make
acquisitions which we are confident will add value
for our shareholders. We expect to make further
progress on business development in 2013.
Our Best of Breedon business improvement
scheme, where employees suggest ways of
improving the business and Breedon GoodQuarry,
which sets target standards for our operations,
have continued to go from strength to strength. It
was particularly pleasing that seven of our units
achieved GoodQuarry status, including one which
was one of the poorest performers in 2011 but had
made dramatic improvements. Generally, standards
showed a significant improvement over the
previous year. Winning ideas from employees
included the installation of carbon monoxide
detectors in high-risk areas, procedures for
controlling water added to concrete on-site and
safety modifications to facilitate screen access for
maintenance. The latter also won an award at the
MPA industry safety conference in October.
OUR STRATEGY
The progress made over the past two years in
difficult market conditions demonstrates the
resilience of our business, the strength of our
management team and the effectiveness of our
business model. However we are not complacent
and there is more that needs to be done if we are
to fulfil our objective of being the safest, most
profitable and best-run aggregates business in the
UK. We will continue to strive for further
improvement. Areas that we intend to focus on in
2013 will be the management of complaints – how
we respond when things go wrong says as much
about our culture as the standard of service we
provide to customers on a daily basis; and on
improvements to our technical capability. The trial
of recycled rubber asphalt on the A92 in Scotland
shows we are capable of stealing a march on
competitors with much larger technical
departments than ours, but there is more we can
do to increase the use of recycled materials, reduce
wastage and develop innovative products.
We continue to see many growth opportunities in
the UK, both through selective acquisition and
organic development. Our recent moves into
mobile concrete plants and the mini mix business
have been successful and we have identified
several interesting possibilities for new concrete
and asphalt plants. A number of acquisition
opportunities are under active consideration and we
are excited about the prospect of further growing
the business in 2013. PATRICK HAS DRIVEN THE EQUIVALENT OF MORE
THAN 12 TIMES ROUND THE WORLD WITH 
BREEDON AGGREGATES
I cover a huge area all over the west coast of Scotland, delivering an average of 25
loads a week. The 20-tonne loads are usually of coated tar or dry aggregates but
sometimes concrete, too. I cover about 1,000 miles each week. It’s great to be out
and about in some of the most beautiful parts of Scotland. I really like meeting our
customers, many of whom I have got to know well through regular deliveries.
OUR PEOPLE THEIR STORY
16
THE GROWTH STORY CONTINUES
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
While there is no doubt that 2013 will be another
tough year with construction output forecast to
decline again and MPA product volumes also
forecast to be down, we are generally more
optimistic than we were this time last year, although
the winter conditions in January resulted in a slow
start to the year. The government at last seems to
have realised that switching funding from revenue
to capital spending on infrastructure can have a
positive effect on GDP , improve employment and
deliver significant secondary economic benefits.
There is a growing recognition in both public and
private sectors that essential maintenance work and
upgrades to production facilities cannot be
postponed indefinitely.
While the recent announcements made in
November 2012 will take time to feed through, the
schemes that were cleared the previous year
should start to materialise in 2013. The A453
upgrade between the M1 and Nottingham is a good
example; this should start early in 2013 with Laing
O’Rourke the successful contractor. The overall
housing market remains depressed due to lack of
mortgage availability but the demand for new
homes is quite strong and the range of financial
support measures introduced means that buying a
new home is the easiest way onto the property
ladder for first time buyers. Housebuilders
anticipate steady demand over the next few years.
In Scotland, we believe that there will be continuing
investment in the renewables sector and related
infrastructure. The recently approved Aberdeen by-
pass and the commitment to dual the A9 from
Perth to Inverness will benefit us in the medium
term. Our associate company BEAR Scotland
recently secured the North West maintenance
contract from Transport Scotland which will ensure
we continue to benefit from material supplies in
that area for the next few years. We are hopeful
that transport budgets in Scotland may increase
slightly from their recent low levels.
The industry landscape in the UK is set to change in
2013 with the Lafarge/Tarmac joint venture now up
and running and the new Hope Construction
Materials business also having commenced trading.
The continuing investigation by the Competition
Commission into the sector is expected to
conclude towards the end of the year although we
would expect any structural remedies to relate
mainly to the cement market.
Breedon will remain focussed on further improving
our performance in safety, operations and customer
service. Our management team have demonstrated
their ability to deliver solid results in the most
difficult market conditions. The acquisitions we
have made have all added significant value to our
core business giving us confidence in our ability to
repeat this with future deals. We are confident of
making further progress in 2013.
Simon Vivian
Group Chief Executive
5 March 2013 Patrick Cook
HGV Driver
Bonawe
17
