 8
THE GROWTH STORY CONTINUES
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
However, I am pleased to report that, despite the
worst trading conditions I can remember in my 50
years in this industry, Breedon Aggregates
continued to grow and prosper. Our aggregates and
readymix volumes were ahead in both England and
Scotland, helped by the full year effect of the C&G
acquisition and positive contributions from the two
small acquisitions we made during the year. 
Overall, Group revenues continued to grow, by
nearly 3% to £174 million. Our EBITDA margin
improved by a further 1.5 points to 11.6% and we
reduced our net debt from more than £96 million to
just over £74 million.
This progress did not come about by accident. It
was a direct result of the commitment, dedication
and sheer hard work of our 800 employees. Most
importantly of all, it was down to the rigorous
attention to detail which prevails throughout our
business. Region by region, site by site, plant by
plant, our talented people are squeezing every last
drop of efficiency out of our operations.
2012 was not a vintage year for our industry. Construction output fell by more than 8%, a significantly
worse outturn than even the most pessimistic forecasts, as the full impact of public sector spending cuts
were felt, particularly in Scotland, and economic recovery was set back once again. 9
You can read some of their personal stories
throughout this report, which we hope will bring to life
the vital part they play in Breedon’s continued growth.
Every pound of investment we make in our business
is being made to work harder than ever before. That
means optimising the output from our crushers,
coating plants, concrete batching plants and
contracting operations and ensuring that the greatest
possible proportion of our raw material goes into
products with the highest possible added value.
Similarly, our prospecting, marketing and customer
service have to be smarter, more cost-effective and
more responsive than ever. We may be a national
group, but at heart we are a collection of local
businesses serving local people and local
companies. Our success is built on careful
selection of new business, then delivering the right
product, at the right price, to the right place – on
time and with courteousness and consideration.
The same is true of our health and safety
performance, the number one item on every Board
meeting agenda, which improved significantly in 2012
as everyone in the business redoubled their efforts to
make our sites safer. Lost-time incidents continued to
fall and I am very pleased to say that our target of
reducing Breedon’s Lost-Time Incident Frequency
Rate by 50% was achieved.
We continued to seek out new market opportunities
during the year and launched two new initiatives: our
1stMix ‘small load’ readymix business in England,
which was trading profitably within six months; and
Mobile Concrete Solutions, a pioneering joint
venture with TSL Contractors which supplies a
mobile concrete batching service to renewable
energy projects in remote locations in Scotland and
is already winning good, profitable business.
We made two acquisitions during the year:
Nottingham Readymix in England in January and
Rothes Glen quarry in Scotland in July. Both
performed well, making a useful contribution to
Group profit. We continue to pursue a number of
other acquisition opportunities but, once again, I
must emphasise that we will only buy businesses
or assets which demonstrably enhance
shareholder value. JOHN MOVES MORE THAN A MILLION TONNES OF
AGGREGATE EVERY YEAR WITH HIS CAT 990
LOADING SHOVEL
I’ve worked for about 15 years in the quarrying industry with four-and-a-half years
at Cloud Hill. On a good day I can load about 4,500 tonnes of rock into the crusher.
That’s a lot of rock over the year. I’m right at the rock face helping to produce the
base materials from which so many of our products come. Whatever needs doing
at Cloud Hill, I turn my hand to it.
OUR PEOPLE THEIR STORY
10
THE GROWTH STORY CONTINUES
We will apply the same strict criteria to all
purchases, whether they are valued at £1 million,
£100 million, or more. It was for precisely this
reason that we withdrew from the bidding for the
assets being sold by Tarmac and Lafarge as a
condition of their new building materials joint
venture. We could not satisfy the value expectations
of the sellers, for the simple reason that they
exceeded – by a significant amount – the level at
which we could realise value for our shareholders.
Looking ahead, the challenges in 2013 look like
being every bit as tough as they were last year. The
Construction Products Association is forecasting
that construction output will fall by more than 2%,
with no meaningful recovery until 2014. Against
this backdrop, it would be easy to let the gloom get
the better of us, but we have a strong and finely-
tuned business which is well equipped to cope
with difficult economic conditions and we remain
enthusiastically committed to growing the Group in
the years ahead. 
When we created Breedon Aggregates in 2010, we
did so in the knowledge that we could expect little
or no help from the construction market. Our models
were predicated on delivering real value if necessary
through self-help alone. It is this approach and
mindset which give us the confidence to anticipate
another year of progress in 2013.
Peter Tom CBE
Executive Chairman
5 March 2013 John Middleton
Loading Shovel Driver
Cloud Hill
11
