 GOVERNANCE HELICAL BAR PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2016 71
CHAIRMAN’S REVIEW
Dear Shareholder,
This Annual Report reflects on a record year for Helical 
with pre-tax profits, shareholders’ funds and our total 
property portfolio at their highest level in the Company’s 
history as a real estate company.
The greatest proportion of this performance has come from our 
London portfolio, which now constitutes over 54% of our total 
portfolio. These results reflect a balance between a high yielding 
regional investment portfolio and a London investment and 
development programme providing both capital and rental 
growth.
COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD
As Chairman of the Nominations Committee, I have reported in 
detail on page 79 of this Annual Report regarding the present and 
proposed future constitution of your Board of Directors. 
Having been on the Board of Helical for over 30 years, the last 
four as Chairman, I intend to retire from the Board and will not be 
seeking re-election at this year’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). 
My fellow Non-Executive Director, Andy Gulliford, who has served 
on the Board for over 10 years will also retire from the Board at 
the same time. I would very much like to thank him for his expert 
advice and support to the Board over the years.
Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Mike Slade, joined the Board of 
Helical Bar plc in 1984, and has turned this previously small 
engineering company into a highly successful real estate 
company. He has led the Company for nearly 32 years and is the 
Company’s largest shareholder but has indicated that he wishes 
to step down as Chief Executive. I am, however, pleased that Mike 
has accepted the request of the Nominations Committee to 
continue his close involvement with the Group and to stand for 
election at the 2016 AGM as Non-Executive Chairman following 
my retirement. On behalf of the Board I would like to thank Mike 
for his outstanding contribution to the business during his long 
tenure as Chief Executive and am delighted that he will continue 
to be part of Helical’s future as Non-Executive Chairman.
Gerald Kaye, Development Director of the Company since 1994, will 
stand for election as Chief Executive of the Company at the AGM. 
Gerald has delivered many highly profitable schemes during his 
career with Helical which have played an integral part in delivering 
strong returns for the Company’s shareholders over the last 22 
years. Gerald is highly respected within the property industry and I 
am confident he will lead this Company with distinction. 
I share the Board’s view that the appointments of Gerald and Mike 
to their new roles are in the best interests of the Company and its 
shareholders.
Following the changes announced in November and as Mike Slade 
will not be regarded as an independent Chairman, the 
Nominations Committee engaged a firm of external consultants to 
carry out an extensive search for two new independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Committee wanted to appoint 
candidates with expertise in the property or financial sectors, who 
could challenge the Board effectively and who would complement 
the remaining independent Non-Executive Board members. I am 
extremely pleased that two exceptional candidates, Susan Clayton 
and Richard Cotton, were identified and subsequently appointed 
and I am confident that they will be valuable additions to the 
Board. Immediately following the AGM, the Board will consist of a 
Chairman, four Executive Directors and five independent 
Non-Executive Directors.
MAJOR DECISIONS
The Board meeting agendas during the year contained many 
issues including:
•  Consideration and approval of significant property acquisitions 
and disposals, most notably the acquisition of Crosstree’s 66.7 
per cent interest in The Bower, Old Street, London EC1;
•  A review of the Group’s corporate, property and financial 
strategy; and
• Changes to the composition of the Board as outlined above.
ANNUAL STRATEGY REVIEW 
In April 2016, the Board considered the Executive Directors 
Annual Strategy Review of the business examining the economic, 
geopolitical, societal and environmental risks affecting the 
business. This review reaffirmed the Company’s principal objective 
of combining investment and development activity to ensure 
maximum shareholder returns whilst managing risks appropriately. 
BOARD EVALUATION 
In order that we may implement our strategy successfully, the 
Board annually evaluates its own performance and that of its 
committees and Directors. This evaluation concluded that the 
Board and its committees continue to operate effectively. As 
Helical is currently not in the FTSE 350 the Code does not require 
the Company to undertake the Board evaluation process 
externally. However, for the year to 31 March 2017 the Board has 
committed to appoint an external consultant to conduct its Board 
evaluation process.
INVESTOR RELATIONS
We have an extensive programme of meetings and presentations 
with shareholders throughout the year with the majority of these 
taking place in the periods following our annual and half year 
results. Either the Chief Executive, Michael Slade or the CEO 
Designate, Gerald Kaye, and the Finance Director, Tim Murphy, 
attend the majority of meetings with the remaining Executive 
Directors, Duncan Walker and Matthew Bonning-Snook, also 
attending as appropriate. 
The Senior Independent Director, Richard Gillingwater, and I are 
available to meet shareholders if they wish to discuss any matters 
with us.
It has been a privilege to serve on this exceptional Company’s 
Board for 30 years and to be Chairman for 4 years. I shall be sad 
to relinquish my association with such a dynamic and successful 
team of people after so long. However, I believe that the Company, 
the executives and the portfolio of developments and investment 
properties are poised for a successful future. This success should 
be further enhanced by a new Chairman, new Chief Executive and 
a refreshed Board.
The following pages describe in greater detail our governance 
structure and the work of the Board and its Committees.
Nigel McNair Scott 
Chairman
15 June 2016
ONE BARTHOLOMEW CLOSE, LONDON EC1
