 02 | Helios Underwriting plc | Annual report and financial statements 2013
Chairman’s statement
Your Board is pleased to report positive 
results for 2013 as Helios Underwriting plc 
("HUW"). We continue to enjoy a close 
association with the Hampden Group of 
companies; however, as we enter this exciting 
stage in the Company’s development we felt 
that the time was right for a more distinct 
identity under a new name. In Greek mythology, 
Helios was the sun god, the son of Hyperion, 
depicted as driving his chariot across the 
sky from east to west daily. Accordingly our 
new name emphasises our continued focus 
– to shine a light on the opportunities that 
exist within the Lloyd’s market. 
The profit after tax of £731,000 for the year 
ended 31 December 2013 compares with 
profit after tax of £763,000 for 2012. This 
result includes a net charge of £427,000 
in respect of goodwill and amortisation. 
Excluding this, the operating profit before 
tax for the year of £1,280,000 shows a 
significant improvement on 2012 (£681,000) 
and on this key measure 2013 is our best 
year to date.
Net assets have increased to £9.8m which 
equates to £1.15 per share and when the 
unamortised value of capacity is added 
back it shows a value of £1.51 per share. 
For the first time, we are pleased to have the 
ability to publish an independent valuation of 
the Group’s Limited Liability Vehicles 
("LLVs"). Humphrey & Co is the market’s 
primary provider of vendor valuations of 
LLVs. The aggregate value as at 
31 December 2013 of HUW’s subsidiaries 
owned at that date is £7.6m. When 
combined with audited adjusted net assets 
of the holding company at the same date, 
we arrive at a total valuation of HUW of 
£14.7m or £1.72 per share.
During 2013 we acquired four LLVs at what 
we believe to be attractive prices. Already in 
2014 we have made three more acquisitions 
and have identified significant scope for 
further growth.
In addition to increased underwriting, one of 
the key by-products of all these acquisitions 
was the increased exposure to their open 
years of 2011 (now closed), 2012 and 2013, 
which were at varying degrees of maturity 
at the time of purchase. While a price is paid 
for these open years, HUW benefits from 
any improvements between the acquisition 
date and closure, as well as affording us the 
opportunity to participate in future underwriting.
The total amount of premium limit purchased 
last year over the three open years was in 
excess of £11.6m. Furthermore some of 
the underwriting vehicles own significant 
Funds at Lloyd’s. They may also have other 
assets which can be invested, or if surplus 
to underwriting requirements can be 
released to fund further purchases. 
Our advisers expect that Lloyd’s, as a whole, 
will continue to trade profitably in most years. 
Despite increased competition in most classes 
and the expectation of lower investment 
returns we will continue to seek to achieve 
our objective of market out-performance 
through a focus on quality syndicates, 
judicious use of reinsurance and continuing 
our acquisition strategy.
A major strategic development for HUW 
during the year was the introduction of our 
50% quota share arrangement with XL Re. 
Not only does this help shape our risk/reward 
profile in a favourable direction, but the 
ability of HUW to attract a partner of the 
calibre and global scale of XL Re clearly 
reflects positively on our business, team, 
portfolio and prospects in general.
At this point, I would therefore like to thank 
Nigel for his crucial role in our achievements 
during 2013, his first full year with HUW as 
Chief Executive. His tireless efforts on behalf 
of the board and shareholders to drive the 
business forward lead me to have great 
confidence in our future prospects.
As the Group operates in the cyclical and 
volatile insurance market significant volatility 
in future results is to be expected. The Group 
manages its capital with a view to supporting 
the development of the business, including 
supporting increases in the Group’s 
underwriting through the acquisition of 
further capacity, whilst maintaining the 
required level of stability of the Group to 
provide a degree of security to shareholders. 
We continue to support the principle of a 
share buy-back policy for occasions when 
the board feels it is prudent to do so, but it 
is not currently anticipated that the buy-back 
authority will be used at this time as the Group 
continues to focus on the growth of its 
underwriting business.
The operating profit before tax for the 
year of £1,280,000 shows a significant 
improvement on 2012 and on this key 
measure 2013 is our best year to date. 
Sir Michael Oliver
Non-executive Chairman Annual report and financial statements 2013 | Helios Underwriting plc | 03
Corporate governance Financial statements Strategic report
Against the backdrop of this capital 
management policy and our significant 
progress over the past year, the Board has 
concluded that it is the right time to introduce 
the payment of a modest and sustainable 
base annual dividend, to be paid as a single 
final dividend. This base annual dividend, 
which is not expected to grow significantly, 
will be supplemented, when circumstances 
allow, by an annual special dividend which, 
when paid, will target an amount between 20% 
and 30% of cash received by the Group in 
relation to the most recently closed year of 
account, such profits normally being finalised 
and received by the Group approximately 
30 months following the end of the relevant 
calendar year. Payment of any special dividend 
will be dependent on the performance of the 
Group’s underlying business, any business 
requirements resulting from major market 
events in the intervening period, and on 
opportunities for growth through the 
acquisition of additional capacity. 
The Board is pleased to recommend a 
maiden final dividend for 2013 of 1.5p 
per share together with a special dividend 
of 3.0p per share payable to shareholders 
on the register on 6 June 2014. Both are 
subject to shareholder approval at the AGM. 
The special dividend equates to approximately 
20% of the £1.3m cash released from the 
2011 year of account net of Hampden 
Agencies’ fees and profit commission, 
including the cash released from the three 
acquisitions completed in 2014 from which 
HUW will benefit. These dividends amount 
to an aggregate payment of £384,000. 
If approved, it is expected that the final and 
special dividend will be paid to shareholders 
as a single payment on 4 July 2014.
 
Sir Michael Oliver
Non-executive Chairman
22 May 2014
The Board is pleased to recommend 
a maiden final dividend for 2013 of 
1.5p per share together with a special 
dividend of 3.0p per share. 
Sir Michael Oliver
Non-executive Chairman
Chairman’s statement continued
