 14
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The underlying business also performed extremely
well during the year and I am particularly pleased that
both England and Scotland were ahead of 2012
despite a difficult first quarter. This would not have
been possible without the efforts of all our hard-
working employees and once again I extend my
thanks for their contribution to the Group’s success.
TRADING SUMMARY
2013 started inauspiciously with cold, wet weather in
January and February resulting in sluggish demand
from customers and business activity levels at the
end of the first quarter were below the previous year.
However, from April things started to improve
steadily and a strong performance in the second
quarter enabled us to make up the lost ground and
deliver an improved result at the half-year. Thereafter
we saw a continuing increase in confidence and
demand, particularly in England. 
Breedon’s performance in both England and Scotland
was extremely pleasing. The recent acquisitions
performed in line with expectations and made a
meaningful contribution during the year. Headline
sales revenue was £224.5 million, 29.5% higher than
in 2012 and underlying Group EBITDA of £28.3
million was 40.1% ahead. Our EBITDA margin
improved from 11.6% to 12.6%, reflecting the
benefit of the acquisitions and continuing control of
costs. Excluding acquisitions, sales revenue
increased by 15.4% and underlying EBITDA by
13.9% – a very solid performance. We continued to
reduce net debt and at the year-end this stood at £54
million or 1.9x underlying EBITDA. We continue to
identify opportunities to improve productivity and
reduce costs through selective capital investment.
I am delighted to report another successful year for Breedon Aggregates, with further solid progress
being made across the business. Undoubtedly the highlight of the year was the acquisition of four of
Marshalls’ quarries in England and Aggregate Industries’ operations in northern Scotland. Following
lengthy discussions, these two deals were completed at the end of April and represent a major step
forward for the Group. We see significant opportunity to improve both businesses.  15
DELIVERING VALUE
Sales volumes in all products were significantly
ahead of 2012 supported by the acquisitions:
aggregates by 43%, asphalt by 15% and concrete by
27%. However, on a like-for-like basis, volumes
excluding acquisitions were also ahead: aggregates
by 12%, asphalt by 11% and concrete by 11%.
These increases are ahead of MPA market figures,
where volumes in the main products increased by 
4-11% in 2013, reflecting strong demand in our
regional areas of operation. 
A number of large contracts were supplied during
the year, including over 30,000 cubic metres of
concrete to Balfour Beatty for the construction of
new power lines between Inverness and Perth that
are needed to transport electricity from recently-built
wind farms in the north of Scotland. 
In England, we supplied 170,000 tonnes of
aggregates and 11,000 cubic metres of concrete to
Laing O’Rourke on the new A453 upgrade connecting
junction 24 of the M1 to Nottingham. Housebuilding
recovered strongly and a number of developments
were supplied in England and Scotland. However, as
we have always said, while these jobs are important
to us, the vast bulk of our sales go to small local
customers with whom we have traded for many
years and have close working relationships. Our
commercial strategy will always be to supply our core
customers first, with larger one-off contracts being
supplied only when we have the capacity to do so.
The Chancellor’s Autumn Statement in early
December confirmed that the recovery in the UK
economy is gathering pace and contained some
welcome news for our industry. The National
Infrastructure Plan (“NIP”) announced ahead of the
Statement provides a framework for infrastructure
investment up to 2030 and beyond. Planned
investment is set to increase from £309 billion to
over £375 billion over the next few years, with
transport and energy the principal beneficiaries. 
The recovery in the housing market is already well
underway and, with underlying demand strong,
should continue to improve in 2014/15. 
With nationwide demand for our products having
fallen by some 35-40% since 2008, it now seems
certain that 2012 will turn out to be the low point in
the cycle and I believe that we can now look
forward to modest increases in volumes over the
next few years.  16
DELIVERING VALUE
OPERATING REVIEW
During the year we continued to improve the
infrastructure of our business. While we have made
great progress over the past few years, our objective
is to be the best company in our sector and we still
see many areas where we could be better and these
will be targeted in 2014.
One of our proudest achievements since creating
Breedon three years ago has been the significant
progress we have made in reducing accidents and
improving safety performance. The key measure of
our performance in this area is the Lost Time
Incidence Frequency Rate (“LTIFR”), which measures
the number of accidents which result in at least one
day off work, divided by 200,000 hours. Over the last
two years we have managed to reduce our LTIFR by
50% each year and we targeted to do the same in
2013. Having been on track to deliver this up to
October, it is disappointing to report that we had a
number of accidents in the last two months which
meant that we only achieved a reduction of 40%.
Despite this, the trend continues in the right direction
and we plan to get back on track in the current year
with a target of a further 50% reduction.
Following the acquisition of Aggregate Industries’
northern Scottish operations at the end of April, the
Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) conducted a lengthy
review of the transaction and subsequently referred
the acquisition to the Competition Commission
(“CC”). After publication of the CC’s Notice of
Provisional Findings and Notice of Final Remedies on
6 February this year, we entered into discussions
with them regarding the required remedies which
should be agreed by the end of April. 
The overall impact of the anticipated remedies is not
significant to the value of the acquisition to Breedon
and we will seek to expedite any sale process of the
assets concerned in order to minimise disruption
and secure the future of the small number of
employees affected. 
Following agreement of final remedies, we will be
free to pursue the full integration of the remaining
operations with our existing business in Scotland and
expect to deliver appreciable synergy benefits in the
year to December 2014.
The whole review process took the best part of a year,
absorbing a considerable amount of time for our small
Head Office team, as well as incurring significant legal
costs. This was exacerbated by the significant
duplication of effort involved in providing much the
same information to the CC as we had already
provided to the OFT. Whilst we appreciate the need
for the authorities to look carefully at regional and local
competition issues, we cannot help feeling that the
process is unnecessarily cumbersome, particularly for
smaller, acquisitive companies like ours. 17
It is to be hoped that the forthcoming combination of
the OFT and CC into the new Competition and
Markets Authority will lead to a significant
streamlining of the review process.
The review necessitated a pause in our business
development programme, but we continue to see
plenty of opportunities and expect to make further
progress in 2014.
Capital expenditure increased to £13.3 million in
2013 as we approved replacement capital for the
new acquisitions and continued to invest in our
core business. Both acquisitions had been capital-
constrained over the past few years with some
mobile and fixed plant requiring immediate
attention and some plant being hired as an
alternative to replacement. 
In Scotland, we approved a new washing plant at
Beauly quarry which will enable higher quality
products to be produced. We also replaced a mobile
crushing plant and authorised the purchase of a
mobile asphalt plant. In England, we acquired two
new dumpers for Clearwell quarry in Gloucestershire
and a dredger for the Astley Moss sand and gravel
pit near Manchester. Most of these and other
projects will deliver a payback through reduced hire
costs or improved productivity. In the core business,
we undertook substantial refurbishment projects at
Leaton and Cloud Hill quarries and approved a major
upgrade at Craigenlow quarry near Aberdeen.
Our previous acquisitions are all performing ahead of
expectations. We recently approved a significant
investment at Norton Bottoms quarry, which we
acquired in 2011, which will increase capacity,
allowing us to meet additional demand from
customers. This project should be completed during
the first quarter of 2014.
We continue to release cash from the sale of surplus
assets, with £4.6 million generated during the year.
Our largest planned asset disposal is a site at Doseley
near Telford, where we have an agreement with
Barratt Developments to sell around 30 acres of land
for housing on a phased basis. The planning
application was approved in July 2013 and the related
planning agreements were signed in February 2014;
we expect the first tranche of land to be sold to
Barratts in 2014. 
Ian Peters, who has been Breedon’s Finance
Director since the business was established in 2008,
notified the Board in November of his intention to
leave the company to pursue other opportunities.
Ian has made an outstanding contribution to
Breedon’s success and we wish him all the best for
the future. Rob Wood was appointed Finance
Director with effect from 3 March 2014 and we are
delighted to welcome him to Breedon. Rob was
formerly Group Financial Controller at Drax Group plc
and previously worked at Hanson, where he was
known by both Ian and myself. I am sure he will
make a great addition to our team. 18
DELIVERING VALUE
BUSINESS OUTLOOK
For the first time since Breedon was formed we are
not starting the year with construction output in the
UK forecast to decline. The outlook has improved
steadily since the end of the first quarter in 2013,
with business confidence increasing and the
economic indicators more positive than for some
years. We therefore have genuine reasons to be
optimistic about the prospects for 2014 and 2015.
The year finished very strongly with good weather
allowing customers to work through to the final week
before Christmas, resulting in our best December for
many years. Wet and windy weather in early January
delayed the return to work in some areas, but
underlying demand is strong and we expect volumes
to pick up quickly once the weather improves.
The macroeconomic background for our industry
looks better than it has for some years: UK GDP is
forecast to grow by 2.7% in 2014 compared to 1.2%
in the Eurozone. CPI and RPI are expected to
continue to fall, as is unemployment. Recent surveys
suggest that business confidence is at its highest
level since the start of the recession. The NIP signals
an intention by Government to fund improvements in
the transport and energy sectors that will have a
direct benefit to our industry. 
The outlook in England appears to be somewhat
better than in Scotland, particularly in the East and
West Midlands where manufacturing investment is
increasing, supported by local government investment
and a buoyant housing market. We expect the
improved market conditions to allow some cost
recovery through increased pricing, which will make
up some of the ground lost during the recession.
In Scotland, there are several large projects on the
horizon, including the Aberdeen relief road which is
currently out for tender and should start towards the
end of 2014. However, Government expenditure has
not been increased and therefore we are not seeing
the same improvement in transport, energy and
infrastructure as in England. The independence
referendum in September is undoubtedly causing
some uncertainty and could be delaying investment
decisions.
Following completion of the Lafarge Tarmac merger
and the creation of Hope Construction Materials in
January last year, the industry in the UK looks more
stable than it has for some years and this can only be
good for Breedon. The acquisitions made last year
have increased the scale of our business and will
deliver ongoing benefits. We have an experienced
management team and a dedicated workforce. With
market conditions looking favourable, we are confident
of delivering an improved performance in 2014.
Simon Vivian
Group Chief Executive
4 March 2014 19
CLIVEDEN HOUSE
Once one of the best-known private homes in the UK,
Cliveden once played host to George I and Queen
Victoria and was home to three dukes, an earl and
Frederick Prince of Wales. Today it is an award-
winning 5-star hotel.
When re-laying The Avenue (the main driveway) and
forecourt in front of the hotel, The National Trust and
London Regional Properties needed a surface which
would complement both the building and the
surrounding area, but which would also be able to
cope with the large number of visitors, many of them
driving the world’s most prestigious luxury cars. 
The solution was 450 tonnes of Breedon Buff
chippings, one of the special aggregates produced
exclusively at Breedon Quarry.
