 10
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
After battling severe headwinds for three years, we
finally had the wind behind us for the first time since
Breedon Aggregates was formed. This helped us to
produce a very encouraging financial performance
and to make significant progress in developing the
business and positioning ourselves to deliver further
value for our shareholders in the years ahead.
Following a bout of severe weather in the first
quarter, activity levels picked up in the second
quarter and this momentum continued into the
second half of the year. Group revenues for the 12
months grew by 29.5% to £224.5 million. Our
EBITDA margin improved by a further 1.0 percentage
point to 12.6% and we improved underlying profit
before tax by 121.4% to £12.4 million. Net debt was
cut from more than £74 million to £54 million.
We are often asked by investors and commentators
what makes our business so distinctive. The answer
is simple: we put our customers first in everything
we do. For us, it is personal: whether they are a
householder ordering a couple of metres of concrete
or a contractor ordering tens of thousands of tonnes
of asphalt, we work hard to ensure that our service
standards are exactly the same – everywhere; day in,
day out.
We aim always to be a trusted and reliable partner.
We treat our suppliers with respect and try to put a
smile on the faces of all the people we do business
with. Our flat structure and collaborative culture
ensure that there is minimal distance between the
people who run our business and the people who
buy our products. Needless to say, we believe the
1,000 or so people who work for Breedon are among
the very best in our industry.
It is pleasing after several very difficult years to report that our markets at last showed encouraging
signs of life in 2013 as the long-awaited economic recovery began to take hold. 11
DELIVERING VALUE
Our first and most important obligation to those
people is to keep them safe, which is why our health
and safety performance is the number one item on
every Board meeting agenda. Our record in this area
continues to improve and in 2013 we reduced
Breedon’s Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate by a
further 40%, on top of the 50% achieved in the prior
year. This was, however, disappointingly short of our
target, and we will be working hard towards another
50% improvement in 2014.
Last year we completed our two largest acquisitions
to date, Marshalls’ quarries in England and
Aggregate Industries’ operations in northern
Scotland, for a total cash consideration of £54
million. This was funded by a £61 million share
placing, which testifies to the strong support we
receive from our shareholders as we pursue our
strategy of consolidating the smaller end of the UK
heavyside building materials industry.
Both acquisitions performed well and have added
appreciably to the strength of our business both
north and south of the border. We expect to finalise
agreement with the Competition Commission by the
end of April on the remedies required to satisfy their
competition concerns in relation to the Scottish
acquisition (covered in detail in the Group Chief
Executive’s Review). I am pleased to say that we
anticipate proceeding with the full integration of
these operations into our existing business in the
second quarter and we expect it to prove an
excellent acquisition for us.
We continue to seek out further acquisition
opportunities and are routinely in discussion with
several parties at any given time, but we reiterate our
determination only to purchase assets from which we
can extract meaningful value for our shareholders.
In addition to our substantial investment in
acquisitions over the last three years, we have also
committed significant capital expenditure to
increasing and upgrading our capacity, in the form of
new plant and equipment, vehicles and facilities
across the Group. This means we are now well
placed to benefit from the accelerating demand for
our products and ensure that we can continue to
meet our customers’ expectations in what will
hopefully continue to be an improving market. 12
DELIVERING VALUE
In November, we announced that our Group Finance
Director, Ian Peters, had decided to step down from
the Board to pursue other interests. We are
delighted that he has been succeeded by Rob Wood,
who took up his new role on 3 March. Rob, a
Chartered Accountant, was formerly Group Financial
Controller of Drax Group plc, which owns and
operates the Drax Power Station in North Yorkshire.
Before that he was Chief Financial Officer, Australia
& Asia Pacific, at Hanson PLC.
On behalf of shareholders, I would like to welcome
Rob to the Group and thank Ian for the significant
contribution he has made to the development of
Breedon Aggregates over the past five years.
We are proud to be the only publicly-quoted British
aggregates business in the UK. We have established
ourselves in a relatively short period of time as a
successful player in a highly competitive market,
achieving scale and profitability with a strong
balance sheet, whilst delivering sound value for 
our shareholders.
Looking ahead, we intend to do more of the same.
The year has begun well and the outlook is more
encouraging than for some time. We plan to take full
advantage of the opportunities ahead and remain
confident of making further progress in 2014.
Peter Tom CBE
Executive Chairman
4 March 2014 13
LOUGHBOROUGH INNER
RELIEF ROAD
Breedon contributes to many inner-city road projects,
including this complex £18 million scheme for
Leicestershire County Council involving construction of
an extended and improved inner ring road by Eurovia
Contracting North as part of the Midlands Highways
Alliance Framework.
We are supplying and laying a substantial quantity of
asphalt for this major project, which includes the
demolition of part of the town centre and a number of
junction and roundabout improvements, all due to be
completed by September 2014.
