 Chief Executive’s review
Consistently strong investment returns are at the heart of  
what every asset manager aspires to deliver to their clients.  
We continued to perform well across our five core capabilities, 
helping our clients capture benefits during strong markets  
and mitigate their losses when market conditions became  
more challenging. 
We saw strong investment performance in areas of significant 
client demand – European assets, as client funds continued to 
flow into Europe; income-focused strategies, as interest rates 
remained chronically low; and also alternatives, where our low 
volatility absolute return strategies appealed to clients looking  
for returns coupled with reliable downside protection.
The investments we made to broaden the range of investment 
styles we offer our clients are starting to bear fruit, with many  
of our new investment teams starting to develop impressive  
track records.
In high yield credit, the US team has top-quartile performance 
over one year as it approaches its three year track record in April 
2016. We recruited an Emerging Markets Equity team in January 
2015 to complement the Emerging Markets Debt team who 
started in 2014. We have been introducing their ideas and 
investment process to clients this year, to position them for  
a return in demand when these styles come back into favour.
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
2015 has been another strong year for Henderson. 
We have executed well on our strategy to grow and 
globalise our business.
In my review last year, I said 2015 would be all about delivery  
of Henderson’s strategy. A year on, how have we done?
Investment performance by core capability
 1 year 3 years
European Equities 80% 92%
Global Equities 77% 81%
Global Fixed Income 63% 77%
Multi-Asset 83% 98%
Alternatives 98% 66%
Total 78% 81%
Note:
Percentage of funds, asset-weighted, that are outperforming based on the relevant metric: peer percentile ranking for Retail, positive for Absolute Return, positive versus 
benchmark for Institutional.
Strategic report Strategic report
7 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Chief Executive’s review continued
During 2015, we have been delighted to see a strong recovery  
in performance at Henderson Geneva Capital Management, the 
US small- and mid-cap growth equity manager we acquired in 
October 2014. The mid-cap fund ended 2015 5.2% ahead of 
benchmarks since the acquisition, and the small-cap fund was 
8.4% ahead. Did we change Geneva’s investment process? 
Absolutely not. One of Henderson’s strengths is that we give 
experienced managers freedom to manage money according to 
tried and tested investment styles, and support them with a risk 
management framework that adds value for managers and clients 
alike. This is an approach which enables us to recruit and retain 
talented managers. 
Strong investment performance led to another year of record-
breaking inflows of client money, totalling £8.5bn. This represents 
net new money growth of 11%
1, 2
, well ahead of the industry 
growth rate of 2%.
In our Retail business, we gained share in our major markets  
and saw flows of £8.0bn. In our SICAVs range – which is sold 
not only in Continental Europe but also in Latin America and  
Asia – the diversity of our product range led to inflows of £4.3bn,  
with the top-selling funds being Henderson Gartmore Continental 
European and Henderson Gartmore UK Absolute Return. 
In our UK ranges, industry flows were strongest into passive 
managers rather than the active sectors where Henderson 
participates but despite this, we saw continuing demand for 
Henderson UK Property and Henderson UK Absolute Return. 
In the US, demand persisted for European, international and 
global equities, but there were also promising new developments 
to broaden our US business, including our first engagement to 
sub-advise a closed-end fund, which raised US$315m at launch. 
Our Institutional business continues to mature, with many of the 
new global investment strategies we have under development 
expected to appeal to Institutional clients. The year saw good 
wins with fixed income clients, which were counter-balanced by 
our planned exit from the Private Equity business. We continue  
to be optimistic about our medium-term growth prospects in  
the Institutional channel. 
2015 has seen steady expansion of our distribution reach  
and deepening of our client relationships, in particular with our 
largest global customers. In our relationships with our clients,  
we have focused on the content and timeliness of the materials 
we provide, to bring alive our core brand proposition – 
Knowledge. Shared.
A key focus of the investment in our business over the last  
few years has been to build a scalable operating platform  
to enable us to improve our profitability as we grow. This year  
saw us generate record underlying profits before tax from 
continuing operations of £220.0m, at a slightly improved 
operating margin of 35.7%. For the second consecutive year  
since we launched our growth and globalisation strategy in  
2014, our underlying pre-tax profit from continuing operations 
has outgrown our revenues.
3,000
4,000
2,000
1,000
-1,000
0
Total
Institutional
US Retail
Retail SICAVs
(1,269)
(182)
1,241
2,701
2,988
2,042
1,366
742
3,554
2,040
1,305
1,643
UK Retail/Other
3
Net client ﬂows (£m)
1Q13 2Q13 3Q13 4Q13 1Q14 2Q14 3Q14 4Q14 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15
11% annualised 
NNM growth FY15
1, 2
One of Henderson’s strengths is that we give experienced managers  
freedom to manage money according to tried and tested investment styles. ”
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Notes:
1. Net new money (NNM) growth represents annualised net flows as a percentage of the opening AUM for the relevant period.
2. Excludes AUM subject to Property transactions with TIAA-CREF and resultant TH Real Estate joint venture AUM but includes Henderson UK Property OEIC.
3. Includes flows from UK OEICs, Unit Trusts, Investment Trusts, Australian Managed Investment Schemes and Singapore Mutuals.
8 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 As we moved forward with our strategic plan, I reviewed  
our management structure to make sure that it was keeping  
pace with the changes in our business. In December 2015,  
after significant progress with the build out of our investment 
management teams, I took the decision after consultation  
with the Board that the role of Chief Investment Officer was 
redundant, which meant that Rob Gambi left the business  
as part of a broader streamlining of the Executive Committee 
(ExCo). I would like to thank Rob for his contribution  
to Henderson and wish him well for the future. 
This year has also seen a significant improvement in our capital 
position. As at 31 December 2015, capital above our regulatory 
requirement was around £100m without recourse to our 
investment firm waiver from consolidated supervision, which 
expires in April 2016. We sold our 40% interest in TH Real 
Estate in June 2015 but retained exposure to the property  
market though our very successful Henderson UK Property  
fund, which is sub-advised by TH Real Estate. Part of the 
proceeds of this sale was recycled into a series of acquisitions  
in Australia – Perennial Fixed Interest, Perennial Growth 
Management and global natural resources equity manager,  
90 West. Our Australian heritage and shareholder base give  
our fledgling business there disproportionate levels of brand 
recognition. These three acquisitions – with the investment 
management expertise and distribution reach they bring –  
are designed to build on the strong base we have established  
in Australia and accelerate the growth of our Australian business. 
Case study: Henderson in America 
The progress we have made in the US in 2015 is a good example of growth and 
globalisation in action.
Henderson launched its US distribution network in 2001 and has steadily grown its  
US Retail business. Our experienced US distribution team has utilised a consultative 
approach to share Henderson’s global investing expertise and perspectives with clients. 
Henderson’s differentiated product line-up and actively managed style has resonated  
well with investors across the continent, resulting in record inflows for 2015 of US$3.5bn,  
38% growth in net new money. The Henderson Global Funds family is now one of the  
top 10 fastest-growing mutual fund families of its size in the US and over half the eligible 
fund range is rated 4 or 5 stars by Morningstar.
In the last three years, we have taken significant steps to accelerate growth and diversify 
our investment management capabilities to US clients. These actions started to deliver in 
2015. Henderson Geneva Capital Management, which was acquired in 2014, performed 
exceptionally well in 2015 and the US Credit team has a top-quartile ranking in the High 
Yield Opportunities Fund since inception in April 2013.
A steady pipeline of product development since 2010 has yielded new funds such as 
Dividend & Income Builder, a 5-star rated core equity-income fund, and five more funds that 
are reaching their three year track records in 2016 and 2017 . In addition, we continue to 
build strong Institutional relationships and nurture our intermediary network, where we were 
pleased to sub-advise the First Trust Dynamic Europe Equity Fund, opening a new channel 
for us in closed-end funds. 
The US business has become a significant contributor to Henderson’s global success as  
it continues to grow, strengthen and diversify its investment capabilities, product offerings, 
distribution channels, and mix of AUM.
In priority order, our preferences for deploying capital  
are to: invest organically in the growth of our business;  
invest inorganically to accelerate growth where appropriate;  
and return surplus capital to shareholders. In 2015, we signalled  
our intention to distribute surplus capital with a £25m buyback  
in the second half of the year, in addition to increasing our 
ordinary dividend. 
To my mind, our strategy has five key deliverables:
• Strong investment performance 
• Above-industry growth in net new client money
• Carefully targeted investment in investment management,  
client relationships and our global operating platform
• Improved operating leverage
• Disciplined use of capital.
Supporting all of these is a sixth, less tangible, but overarching 
objective: delivering what we promise to our clients. This year,  
as a firm, we have worked hard to deliver to our clients, and  
have achieved excellent results. Having achieved net new money 
growth of 11% per annum since we launched our growth and 
globalisation strategy in 2014, we are on track to achieve our 
goal of doubling AUM by 2018. 
Strategic report Strategic report
9 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 What’s next?
To deliver our strategy to grow and globalise our business,  
we will continue to focus on four key priorities:
• Deliver first-class investment performance and service  
to our clients
• Expand our global investment offering to meet the current  
and future needs of our clients
• Diversify our business through product and geographic expansion
• Operate efficiently.
On paper, the strategies of many asset managers look similar.  
In practice, what differentiates us is the calibre of the people we 
have charged with executing these strategies. I would like to take 
this opportunity to pay tribute to my colleagues at Henderson 
who have worked hard this year to deliver on behalf of our clients. 
To the investment managers, long established and new who have 
delivered excellent investment performance. To the client-focused 
teams who never let us forget who we serve. To the infrastructure 
teams who have collaborated across the globe to deliver complex 
projects like the integration of our Australian acquisitions. To the 
assurance teams who ensure that we remain compliant, and keep 
abreast of the ever more complex demands of our regulators.  
To the 174 people who have been with Henderson for more than 
10 years, and the Investment 2020 trainees who bring diversity 
and fresh ideas. Henderson prospers thanks to a dedicated 
workforce, whose work ethic is summed up in our chosen  
guiding principles of collaboration, conviction and responsibility.
We enter 2016 with continued strong momentum, knowing  
that we grew at a higher rate than our peer group in 2015.  
This positions us well for what could prove to be challenging 
conditions ahead – in terms of global markets, regulatory scrutiny 
and changing client needs. We are far from complacent, and are 
resolved to continue to deliver strongly in 2016, for the benefit  
of our clients and shareholders. 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review continued
These priorities encourage us not only to execute 
well, but to be agile enough to respond to changes 
in market conditions. ”
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
These priorities encourage us not only to execute well, but  
to be agile enough to respond to changes in market conditions, 
whether they present opportunities or threats. 
In the course of 2015, we were careful to divide our time 
between achieving short-term milestones and considering  
how the future looks for our clients and our industry. 
Trends preoccupying our clients include the shift of the  
retirement burden from the state and corporates to the individual, 
driven by structural pension reforms and the demographics of  
an ageing population. This is a trend we see developing at 
varying speeds across many of the jurisdictions in which we 
operate – from Australia to the US. Linked to this is the shift in 
investment demand from traditional products into passive, 
multi-asset and outcome-oriented products and mandates.  
A key strategic decision for Henderson is where we can add 
value in this changing environment – and where we cannot.  
Our focus remains on our core capabilities in active investment 
management, but with increasing focus on outcome-oriented 
strategies linked to income generation, absolute return and 
preservation of capital. 
We have also taken time this year to consider mega-trends 
affecting our industry – everything from disruptive innovation  
and cyber security to climate change. We are far from pretending 
to have a neat set of answers for these powerful forces, but  
we are alert to the threats – as well as the opportunities – they 
present, and are looking in particular for opportunities to harness 
changes in technology in performance management, risk 
management and client engagement. 
10 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Awareness and agility, to keep moving 
forward and adapt when necessary  
to changes in market conditions and 
regulatory environments.
AWARENESS 
AND AGILITY
Strategic report Strategic report
11 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
