 In this year’s report, we explore characteristics of our business 
which equip us to sustain excellent performance and service  
for our clients and give strength to our strategy. Focus and 
energy are essential to drive the execution of an ambitious plan. 
But so, for example, are awareness and agility, to respond  
where necessary to changes in client preferences and market 
conditions. Behind all this remains a constant emphasis on  
strong investment performance, for the benefit of our clients.
How do you measure success?
Again this year, Henderson delivered well on our promises  
to our clients and shareholders:
• Consistently strong investment performance, with  
81% of funds outperforming over three years
• Net client inflows of £8.5bn
• AUM increased to £92.0bn
• Increased underlying profit and EPS
• Increased dividends totalling 10.3 pence per share,  
and a £25m share buyback.
What makes you believe that this success  
is sustainable?
Underpinning our excellent near-term performance is a well 
understood and consistent strategy, focused on the twin goals  
of growth and globalisation. 
It is a strategy designed to respond both to opportunity and risk. 
Over the last few years, we have strengthened our position  
in our established markets and harnessed demand for our 
European funds. Once we had become more confident in our 
domestic markets in the UK and Europe, we were ready to make 
more of our international operations – in the US and Australia.  
In so doing, we are diversifying our client base and building more 
balance into our business, in pursuit of the objective of becoming 
a genuinely global asset manager. 
Behind the scenes, we have invested to diversify our investment 
management skill set, to be able to harness future cyclical shifts 
such as the resurgence of emerging markets and the growing 
demand for globally-focused equity and fixed income products. 
There is still more work to do, but we are making good progress. 
Our Chief Executive, Andrew Formica, talks more about this  
in his review. 
Chairman’s statement
In my 2014 review, I focused on the abiding importance of putting our  
clients’ interests at the heart of everything we do. How well embedded  
is this customer-centric view point?
It is of fundamental importance that everyone  
at Henderson respects the fact that we are trusted 
with our clients’ money, on which their future 
wellbeing may depend. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
4 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 What role has the Board played in the 
development and execution of strategy?
Beyond our regular direction-setting and monitoring of client 
interests, the Board agenda this year has included deep dives 
into key elements of our strategy, to validate our approach to 
geographic expansion and to test our thinking around major  
lines of business. 
As we looked at the Pan-Asian region, we took the pragmatic 
decision to play to our strengths and focus on Australia, where 
our heritage and brand presence create a uniquely secure 
foundation for our fledgling business. The Board chose to 
redeploy part of the capital released through our exit from our 
direct involvement in Property into the acquisitions of 90 West, 
Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management,  
to accelerate our business plan for Australia. As we shape  
our broader strategic view on Henderson’s role in Pan-Asian 
markets, we are delighted to welcome Kalpana Desai, who  
joined the Board in October and brings extensive knowledge  
of Pan-Asian markets.
In reviewing progress in our Institutional business, the  
Board endorsed the executive team’s approach of growth  
at a reasonable price. Many members of the Board bring to  
the table an instinctively institutional mind set, based on a  
deep understanding of what it takes to develop an Institutional 
business. Demanding institutional standards will increasingly 
apply right across our industry and there are scale benefits 
available to businesses able to serve both Retail and  
Institutional clients. 
The Board also had a comprehensive look at all our recent 
investments in new investment management teams. I am pleased 
to write that almost all of these new teams are performing well. 
The Board took time this year to look further ahead, at the  
major trends which could shape our industry over the coming 
decade. Personally, I worry about the enormous disruption to  
our prosperity, security and growth prospects which I believe 
would follow a British exit from the European Union, not to 
mention the uncertainty created by years of treaty renegotiation 
and the impact on our own industry. As a Board, we considered 
technological disruption and the arrival of the robo-adviser, as 
well as climate change and cyber risks. In these deliberations,  
I was struck by the productive mix of skills and experience around 
the boardroom table at Henderson. We have all experienced 
technological disruption in other sectors in which we have been 
involved, notably Retail with the advent of internet shopping,  
and are aware of the power of partnership to drive overarching 
change. One of the key ways in which a board can add value  
is by considering a range of perspectives and time horizons,  
and encouraging others to recognise and challenge the 
consensus view. 
All of our good work on strategy and business development 
could be reduced to nought without the soundest possible 
control environment. At Henderson, we are conscious of the 
need for our controls to keep pace with our growing business. 
We have made major investments this year in manpower and 
systems to keep us abreast of best practice and to meet our 
clients’ and regulators’ expectations. This will continue in 2016  
as the fast pace of regulatory change is maintained. The Board 
– particularly through the work of its Audit and Board Risk 
sub-committees – plays an active role in continuously monitoring 
the strength and adequacy of our control environment. The Board 
also takes a keen interest in the Company’s relationships with  
its global regulators, ensuring that we continue to engage in a 
constructive manner and take a proactive role, particularly on 
significant new regulations and where it is in the interests of 
clients to do so. 
Many of the Board’s decisions are essentially about the 
deployment of capital. At Henderson, we take an active approach 
to the management of cash and capital resources. We will look 
first for opportunities to invest organically in the growth of our 
business or to invest in inorganic growth. When capital 
generation outweighs these options, we will return surplus capital 
to shareholders. As a signal of our intent to do precisely this, we 
implemented a £25m share buyback across our two listings in 
the second half of 2015. 
We continue to operate a progressive dividend policy and expect 
to grow our dividend broadly in line with underlying earnings 
growth over the medium term. The Board is recommending a  
final dividend for 2015 of 7 .20 pence per share, bringing the total 
dividend for the year to 10.3 pence per share, a 14.4% increase 
over 2014 in sterling terms. 
What is on the Board agenda for the  
coming year?
This has been another successful year for Henderson, and  
one in which we have continued to make significant progress  
in delivering our strategy. 
We are acutely conscious of the challenges ahead. As I write, 
markets are volatile and client demand is focused on sources  
of income and risk-adjusted returns. Growth is harder to achieve 
in tough markets, and the role of the Board is to strike a healthy 
balance between the delivery of strategy, management of risk  
and consideration of new opportunities. Our commitment is to 
continue to achieve this balance, to the benefit of our clients  
and shareholders.
In concluding, I would like to thank my fellow Board members for 
their support and commitment, and to congratulate the team at 
Henderson on the delivery of another successful year. My thanks 
also to our clients and shareholders for their continuing support. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
We have continued to progress along our journey of growth and globalisation as shown not only by the organic growth of our business as explained elsewhere in this report but also by the acquisitions of Perennial Fixed Interest and Perennial Growth Management. Further information can be found on page 9. These acquisitions will accelerate our strategy to grow and globalise our business.
We have in place a robust governance framework that underpins and enables us to deliver on our strategy and support our business model and I hope you ﬁ nd useful the reports from the Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Board Risk Committees. 2015 has been another challenging year for the Board and I thought it might be useful if we set out a more detailed summary of the matters we considered during the year. 
We have signed up to the Investment Association’s Statement of Principles for Investment Managers. These 10 principles represent a culture of excellence for investment managers in helping clients succeed in achieving their ﬁ nancial goals.
On the subject of culture, the Board received the results of a culture audit undertaken by KPMG. There were a lot of positives to be taken from the report but there are some areas in which we could do better and a sub-committee of the ExCo is investigating how to implement ﬁ ndings and recommendations.
Henderson operates in a highly and constantly developing regulatory environment. Therefore, a great deal of time has been spent by the Board and the Audit Committee on regulatory matters as we ensure that our Compliance systems are appropriately embedded in the organisation.
I would also like to take the opportunity to welcome Kalpana Desai to the Board. A description of her appointment process is set out in the report from the Nomination Committee.
This Corporate Governance Statement is correct as at 10 February 2016 and has been approved by the Board of Directors. 
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
10 February 2016
Chairman’s introduction
Contents
49  Chairman’s introduction
50  Board of Directors and leadership
54 Strategy, governance structure and Board business
56  Effectiveness
57  Nomination Committee report
59  Accountability
60  Board Risk Committee report
62  Audit Committee report
66  Relations with shareholders
67 Directors’ remuneration report
85 Compliance statements and application of principles  and recommendations
89 Directors’ report
91 Directors’ responsibilities statement
92 Independent auditors’ report
Dear Shareholder
CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
We continue to have in place a robust governance 
framework that underpins and enables us to deliver 
on our strategy and support our business model.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
  Our formal compliance statements with an explanation of how we applied the principles of the UK Governance Code and the recommendations set out in the ASX Principles are set out on pages 85 to 88.
Strategic report Governance
49 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 48 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
 Governance p.48
Read more related to these topics
Strategic report Strategic report
5 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015 Focus and energy, to drive the execution 
of our ambitious plan.
FOCUS AND 
ENERGY
6 Henderson Group plc Annual Report 2015
