 07
Henderson Group  
Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
The Board
Three Directors joined the Board in 201 1. 
Kevin Dolan brings his extensive 
international experience gathered over the 
past 32 years from his executive and 
non-executive roles in financial services. 
Two of our executives also joined the Board: 
James Darkins, Managing Director of 
Property, and David Jacob, Managing 
Director of Henderson Investment 
Management and Chief Investment Officer. 
They have been with the Group for 14 and 
seven years respectively. Gerry Aherne, who 
has been a Director for over seven years 
and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee since 2005, will stand down  
as a Director at the 2012 AGM. I would like 
to thank him for the advice and experience 
he brought to Henderson Group and wish 
him every success for the future.
Outlook
It is hard to see a speedy conclusion to the 
eurozone debt crisis. It is easy to see that 
the financial services industry will continue 
to experience political and regulatory 
uncertainty. As a result, we expect markets 
to remain volatile. However, we are well 
placed to manage the business through 
choppy waters, by concentrating on those 
areas we can control. We will continue to 
watch our costs carefully, but we will retain 
the flexibility to invest to protect and expand 
the business. We will focus on investment 
performance and building our distribution 
network. Finally, we will continue to offer a 
portfolio of attractive products that meet or 
exceed the expectations of our clients.
These are challenging times, but the Board, 
the management team and staff are 
determined to ensure Henderson thrives for 
the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
Thank you
The Board would like to thank our staff for 
all they have done in a difficult year, through 
their enthusiasm, dedication and hard work. 
We also thank our shareholders for your 
continued support.
Rupert Pennant-Rea
Chairman 
Overview
201 1 was an important year in the history  
of Henderson. The business rose to some 
significant challenges, ranging from a 
transformational acquisition to further 
economic turmoil. 
An optimistic start to 201 1, with improving 
economic data and confidence levels, was 
soon overshadowed by the devastating 
Japanese earthquake in March. Then came 
softer economic data from the US, and  
the sovereign debt crisis in the eurozone. 
Understandably, investors turned cautious, 
and most equity markets ended the year down.
Despite this, Henderson delivered a good 
result. The Group’s underlying profit was up 
58%, primarily as a result of the Gartmore 
acquisition and helped by continuing cost 
control. We start 2012 in a good position  
to achieve long-term value for our 
shareholders.
Corporate activity
Our acquisition of Gartmore, a UK-based 
fund manager, showed Henderson at its 
best: the strategic rationale was 
overwhelming, the business was a great fit 
and we bought it at a price that was highly 
attractive for our shareholders. The 
subsequent integration has gone well: we 
have beaten our targets in terms of both 
assets and clients retained, and completed 
the integration ahead of schedule.
As a result of this acquisition we have 
strengthened two areas of strategic 
importance to us, in retail and absolute 
return. We also added to our core 
investment capabilities, especially in Global 
and Emerging Market Equities, and we have 
expanded our distribution reach, above all in 
Japan. The lessons we learned from buying 
New Star in 2009 have played a big part in 
ensuring that we extract value for our 
shareholders from Gartmore, which has 
helped improve our diluted underlying 
earnings per share by more than 30%. 
In line with our strategic objectives, we  
also sold a number of non-core businesses 
last year. These include the transfer of  
our liquidity fund, the sale of New Star 
Institutional Managers Limited (NSIM) and, 
just recently, the disposal of our interest in 
Hermes GPE LLP, a private equity fund of 
funds joint venture.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
for 201 1 of 5.05 pence per share, bringing 
the total dividend to 7.0 pence per share, 
8% higher than the 2010 total. The final 
dividend will be paid on 25 May 2012 to 
shareholders who are on the share register 
on 4 May 2012. We will continue to apply 
our formula so that the next interim dividend 
will be 30% of the total dividend for the 
previous year – subject, of course, to the 
sensible caveat that we must have the 
resources to make the payment.
Chairman’s Statement
The business is stronger.  
Now we want growth – 
sustainable, organic growth
Rupert Pennant-Rea 
Chairman
