 “We concentrate on what we are good at” 
Chairman’s statement
A trusted partner for our clients
Overview
Slower global growth, rising unemployment 
in many countries, the eurozone crisis – all 
weighed on markets in 201 2. Although 
Henderson performed reasonably well, we 
fell short of our growth ambitions. We have 
slimmed down the business to protect the 
interests of our shareholders and focus on 
our key areas of expertise to meet clients’ 
needs. By simplifying and streamlining our 
business, we were also able to make a 
number of investments which will result in 
Henderson being a more global business 
with stronger investment teams and 
distribution channels.
Our strategy
Our central goal is to be a trusted partner  
for our clients, providing a service that meets 
or exceeds their expectations. We are 
committed to organic growth, although  
we also see strategic alliances and smaller 
acquisitions as an attractive way to 
strengthen and diversify the business so that 
it is less exposed to Europe. Let me mention 
a few examples from the recent past: we 
bought a 50% interest in Northern Pines 
Capital LLC, a US long/short equity hedge 
fund manager; we hired a team of US-based 
credit specialists, enabling us to extend our 
strong European credit record to a global 
scale; through acquiring Horizon Investment 
Management France SAS, we strengthened 
our position in the French property market; 
and in response to the Retail Distribution 
Review in the UK, we formed a strategic 
alliance with Sesame Bankhall Group, the 
country’s largest IFA network. More detail  
on these and other initiatives are in the  
Chief Executive’s review.
Dividends
The Board is recommending a final dividend 
for 201 2 of 5.05 pence per share, bringing 
the total dividend to 7 .15 pence per share, 
2% up on the 201 1 total. This final dividend 
will be paid on 31 May to shareholders  
on the register on 10 May. We continue to 
apply our dividend formula so that (always 
provided the money is there) the interim 
dividend is 30% of the total dividend for  
the previous year.
The Board
Gerry Aherne left the Board in May 201 2 
and Sarah Arkle joined in September;  
each has had a successful career in  
asset management. 
In December we announced a change  
in the Company’s tax residency from the 
Republic of Ireland to the UK. With all 
strategic decision-making now back in 
London, we were able to reduce the number 
of Executive Directors and David Jacob and 
James Darkins stood down. Many thanks  
to both of them and to Gerry Aherne for 
their valuable contributions to the Board. 
I also announced that I will be leaving  
the Group at the Annual General Meeting  
on 1 May 2013, after almost nine years  
as a Director. Henderson has come a  
long way since the demerger from AMP  
in 2003 and I have much enjoyed my time 
as your Chairman. 
Richard Gillingwater was recently appointed 
as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman 
Designate. Henderson will be well served  
by a person of Richard’s standing, and his 
extensive boardroom experience will be  
a great asset to the Company. He will 
become Chairman after the AGM in May. 
Outlook
Although the global growth outlook is still  
a cause for concern, financial markets had  
a strong start to 2013, encouraged by signs 
of progress in tackling the challenges of  
the eurozone and the US budget. Provided 
inflation remains low, the pressure on real 
incomes will ease, which will have a positive 
impact on economic growth. Whatever 
happens in the wider world, Henderson is 
committed to delivering the products and 
services our clients need and investing 
where we see potential for growth. 
Thank you
The Board would like to thank all our staff 
for their hard work and we also thank you, 
our shareholders, for your support.
Rupert Pennant-Rea 
Chairman
Rupert Pennant-Rea
Chairman
6
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2
