 Chief Executive’s review
Investing for our clients
Our 80th anniversary celebrations this year gave us 

of pioneering products, global investment horizons and 
valued relationships with clients and counterparties. For 
me, the single most important aspect of our history is that 
 

What did we deliver for our  
clients in 2014?
At the heart of what every asset manager aspires to  

and consistently strong investment returns. At Henderson,  
83% of our funds outperformed over the three year  
period our clients monitor most closely, with two thirds 
outperforming over the more volatile one year period.
Investment performance by core capability
1 year 3 years




Alternatives
Total 66% 83% 



which meant that even in falling markets we gained market 
share in the second half of 201 4. Performance in Global 

managed styles delivering strong performance for clients,  


pulled back from its 201 3 levels, as government bond 
markets stayed stronger than our teams anticipated. 

contributed well, with the Henderson Horizon Global High 
 

 
long/short funds succeeded in providing better defensive 
investment options than many of our peers – an attractive 
 
the second half of the year. In short, we delivered 
impressive investment performance across a broad  
range of strategies. 
Investment process and performance form the bedrock of 
what we deliver to our clients, but strong, sustainable client 

to maintain and enhance these connections continue to 
evolve. We have always worked with our largest clients  
to develop new investment ideas. As our product design 
process evolved this year, we sought client feedback at the 
design stage of a series of new strategies to meet current 
and future demand, which led to us launching new funds 
focused on global and emerging markets corporate bond 
strategies. In the intermediated Retail markets, we also 
increased the level of information and insight we source 
from our clients’ end customers, commissioning research 
into evolving customer needs and inviting 300 of our end 
customers to sit on a Customer Panel to share their views 
on a range of topics.

reporting we provide to our clients, particularly online, 
where video is challenging the written word in popularity.  

 
During the course of this year, our managers shared  
their insights through thought leadership pieces and fund 
commentaries, and also on video, which led to a surge in 

Our aim is to share our perspectives with our clients, to 
enable them to understand our thinking and use it to 
shape their own decisions. During the course of this year, 
 Knowledge. Shared 
proposition. This is aimed at providing unrivalled levels  
of thought leadership, transparency and service;  
attributes that clients tell us add the most value to  
them. Relationships with clients are being transformed 
into partnerships.  
For me, the single most important aspect  
of our history is that we were named after  
 

Andrew Formica 
Chief Executive
Strategic report
 7
Strategic report Jorge Lopez Farjeat – Santander, Mexico  
Henderson try to be in the shoes of their 
customers – they really understand what 
they’re selling, and know the best ways  
of communicating it to their customers. 
CLIENT  
FOCUS 
 What were the results of this 



products and service. 
 

testament to the tenacity of our distribution teams,  
who continued to share our knowledge of European 

that we attracted more than our share of new business 

also demonstrated the strategic success of our past 





 
or managers who joined Henderson as a result of  

As the year progressed, the diversity of our product line 




Income and Alternatives. The diversity of our product 
lines stood us in good stead in the second half of the 
year, when clients switched from high beta styles into 
more defensive investments. Our top selling Retail funds  
 
for risk, demand for income and the defensive 
characteristics of absolute return.
Our plans to diversify and balance our product lines  
are more advanced in some regions than in others.  
Our UK Retail business is the poster child in this respect, 
 
selling UK Retail funds include Henderson UK Property, 
Henderson Cautious Managed, Henderson Euro 
Selected Opportunities, Henderson European Focus, 
Henderson UK Absolute Return, Henderson Strategic 
Bond and Henderson Multi Manager Income and 
Growth. By contrast, our US Mutuals business had a  

did not have a broad enough product range to continue 

 
to broaden our US client offer, with our All Asset and 
Dividend and Income Builder funds reaching their three 
year track records in 2015, two further funds reaching 
three year track records in 2016 and an additional three 
in 2017 , including US Growth Opportunities with input 

 
our strong Retail businesses in the UK, Continental 
Europe, the US and Latin America. Our Institutional 
business made steady progress but needs global  
 

 
and Japan, as well as the UK and Continental Europe. 
 

Geneva Capital Management funds in the immediate 
aftermath of the change in ownership. Whilst this was 
 
 
closed in October. 

 
have done well this year both on an absolute basis,  
 
we have gained market share in major markets such as  
UK, European and US Retail, which reinforces my view 

Chief Executive’s review continued
Strategic report
 1Q13 4Q12 3Q12 2Q12 1Q12
747
423
833
708
1,457
581
46
188
399
107
197
113
179
196
160
296
792
110
4Q14 3Q14 2Q14 1Q14 4Q13 3Q13 2Q13
Retail 
Institutional 
1,348
2,504
2,875
1,863
1,170
902
 9
Strategic report 2014 was a year of carefully targeted organic investment 

well as strategic moves to structure our business around 
our core capabilities. 
Alternatives is an area where we are changing the shape 

of John Laing Group plc in February 2015 marked an 




crisis. Although this outcome is clearly not what we 
hoped for, we have done everything in our power to 

Elsewhere in our business, we continued to build on 
longstanding initiatives to stimulate growth. We hired 

grade credit, and emerging markets to round out our 
investment management capabilities. We built out our 
Australian operation; we refreshed our brand; and 

platform. Given the scale of new investments made this 


the cost of new teams which earn very little revenue, 
particularly in investment management, where it will 
take at least three years for them to build a track record. 
A personal area of focus for me this year has been 


to graduate recruits. It is a particular pleasure to welcome 

talented team leader, who has already made an impact 

remain the preserve of individual investment managers, 
Rob has galvanised management decision making and 

to the investment discussions. His arrival completes 
my senior team. 

Trainee Programme, part of the Investment 2020 
initiative to create more entry level opportunities into 
fund management. Henderson’s programme is aimed at 
recent graduates, school leavers and those looking for 
a career change and offers the opportunity to join us on 

completed our programme since its inception in 2010, 
and 90% of them have gone on to secure permanent 
roles within our industry. Our Trainee Programme is not 

Chief Executive’s review continued
This time last year, we articulated 
a strategy based on growth and 
globalisation. How are we doing? 
This time last year, I set out a strategy based on strong 

of which, assuming helpful markets, will be to double 
our assets under management by 2018. Publicly 

I acknowledge, but it has acted as a clear and 
effective rallying cry for everyone in Henderson. 
Doubling assets under management
2013 2018
AUM doubled
Market/FX – 4-6% p.a.
Acquisitions – 2-4% p.a.
Net new money – 6-8% p.a.
£63.7bn
Geneva Capital 
Management

play in delivering our strategy, where 
we see opportunities to accelerate 
growth. In October 2014, we completed 


manager. This was an important 

American business. Geneva brings 



international capabilities, and a 
predominantly Institutional client base 
which complements Henderson’s strong 


complements Henderson’s, and the two 
teams are already working well together 
to build a US business where the whole 
is bigger than the sum of the parts.
  Ours is an industry at risk from disruptive technology, 

youth into our workforce helps guard against these risks. 
Having launched our growth and globalisation strategy 

 

growth came through very well, despite muted  
market returns in the second half, and we maintained  
a disciplined approach to investing in our business. We 
 
I hope we will see 2014 as a pivotal year for Henderson, 

What are our priorities for 2015?

investment programme, 2015 is about delivery. Our 
strategy is clear and well embedded within our business. 
Our focus now is to deliver what we know we are 
capable of. Key to achieving this is maintaining strong 
relationships with our clients, which in turn should lead  
to high retention rates and strong new business growth. 
Our focus on investment performance is unrelenting.

• Continue to deliver for our clients – which in  
turn will drive new business and enable us to  
gain market share
• Monitor and support our new investment  
teams as they establish their track records
• Continue to build our business geographically  
• Continue to look for attractive small scale  

• Demonstrate the operating leverage in our  
business model.
We will maintain a disciplined approach to use of capital, 
and enter 2015 ready to operate without recourse to  


the level of capital buffer prescribed by the Board,  

capital. Once a robust capital position is achieved, I look 

• fund organic growth and globalisation
• supplement organic growth with value  

• increase returns to shareholders.
What are the key risks to  
delivering our strategy? 
I am often asked about the key risks to the success  
of our strategy. We manage risks within our business 

Chaloner reports in his section starting on page  
36, but I am also very conscious of the potentially 

notably markets and regulation. 
 
in the latter months of 2014 is likely to be a persistent 
feature in 2015, as markets adjust to disruptive changes 
in the economic and political landscape. This is a year  


elections taking place in the major economies, against  

parties in many countries.  
On the positive side, central banks remain focused on 
sustaining the global recovery and with the drag from 
 
oil price providing further support, 2015 could be a year 
of positive growth surprises, after four years of growth 
downgrades. This is a year for active investment 
managers to make their mark. 
Regulatory change continues to challenge us, and it is 

and track record to navigate the regulatory landscape 
carefully. The implications of unbundling research from 
dealing commissions as part of MiFID II in Europe are 
still being worked through, and represent the greatest 
regulatory challenge for us at present.
Outlook for 2015 and beyond
We enter 2015 with good momentum, knowing that  
we are gaining market share in our major markets.  

organic growth, principally from our current diverse 
product range, but increasingly from new initiatives  

Key to our success in 2015 and beyond is staying true  
to our clients and true to our brand, encapsulated in  
the Knowledge. Shared brand proposition. Throughout 
this Annual Report, we have showcased portraits of  
our current clients as well as that of our founding  

importance we attribute to the views of our clients.  
This unrelenting focus on the client is central to our  
80 year history, and remains key to our future success. 
I would like to conclude by thanking all of the Henderson 
team for their hard work this year, our shareholders  
for their support, and our clients for trusting us with  
their money. 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
 11
Strategic report
