 3
OUR BUSINESS 
2-19
GOVERNANCE  
20-44
FINANCIALS
45-89
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
90-92
HENDERSON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Overview
The global economic recovery that started in 2009 continued in 
2010. Gross World Product rose by 5%, well above the long-run 
average of 3.3%. However, 70% of this growth was accounted for 
by emerging markets. In most developed economies, conditions 
remained sluggish and unemployment high. Investors were more 
than once unnerved by the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, fearing 
that it would result in new strains on the banking system. Reﬂecting 
these concerns, as well as signs of slower growth in China, equities 
fell sharply in May and then languished for a while. The turning point 
for markets came in September when the US Federal Reserve 
announced a second round of quantitative easing. This, together 
with good corporate news, revived investors’ appetite for risk, so 
equities ﬁnished with solid gains for the year. When the quantitative 
easing policy was implemented in November, commodity prices 
rose sharply, boosting inﬂation in developed and emerging 
economies and making some central banks respond with 
tighter policy.
The overall rise in equity markets was good for Henderson’s 
business. With the success of the New Star acquisition and higher 
transaction and performance fees, the Group’s underlying proﬁt 
rose by 37%. 
Dividends
The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy and, in 
keeping with this, is recommending a ﬁnal dividend for 2010 
of 4.65 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for 2010 
to 6.5 pence per share, 7% higher than the 2009 total dividend. 
The proposed ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 27 May 201 1 
to shareholders who are on the register on 6 May 201 1. 
As previously announced, we intend the interim dividend 
to be 30% of the total dividend for the previous year.
The Board
There were no changes to the Board’s membership last year. In 
accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code issued 
by the FRC in June 2010, from now on Directors will offer 
themselves for reappointment every year. 
Source: Datastream
Henderson Group share price
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
Ordinary shares (LHS)
CDIs (RHS)
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
pence A$
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
Corporate activity
The main strategy for the Group is proﬁtable organic growth. 
That said, and as we have shown in the past, we keep an eye on 
acquisition opportunities that ﬁll gaps in our product range and/or 
improve our distribution. Any acquisition possibility will be judged 
against strict ﬁnancial criteria, and also by its cultural ﬁt. We have 
a distinctive culture which (as evidenced by our low staff turnover) 
works for our staff and, through them, for our clients. In 2010, we 
reviewed a number of opportunities including RidgeWorth, a US- 
based company, but we decided not to pursue it. In January 201 1, 
we announced the proposed acquisition of Gartmore. It should 
reinforce our position as a diversiﬁed asset manager with much to 
offer in traditional long-only and absolute return funds, and it will 
signiﬁcantly strengthen our presence among UK retail investors. 
Shareholders are being asked to vote on this acquisition in March; 
your Board unanimously recommends that you vote in favour.
Outlook
Although concerns about sovereign debt are likely to continue, 
the global economy looks set for reasonable growth. Even though 
the UK recovery will test the nerves, we are well placed to provide a 
good service for our clients and decent results for our shareholders.
Thank you
The Board would like to thank our staff for their skill and hard work 
last year. Thanks also to our shareholders for your support for 
Henderson; we do not take it for granted.
Rupert Pennant-Rea
Chairman
Rupert Pennant-Rea
Chairman
