 4
HENDERSON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
MARKET AND REGULATORY REVIEW
IMPROVED 
MARKET 
CONDITIONS
,
 
BUT BUFFETED 
BY ECONOMIC, 
POLITICAL AND 
ENVIRONMENTAL 
FACTORS 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive 
Market and regulatory review
 Recovery in global economy continued
 Global equity market returns outpaced most  
other asset classes
 Increasing and changing regulation in our sector
Review of 2010
The year was characterised by recovery in the global economy, 
although the effects of the global ﬁnancial crisis continued to 
be felt. Market conditions improved and equity markets were on 
average 20% higher in 2010 compared to 2009, but there were 
notable episodes of volatility and uncertainty. As can be seen in 
the chart below, there were a number of economic, political and 
environmental events each of which troubled markets for a period 
of time. 
Following the recapitalisation of banks in 2009, the realisation 
came in 2010 that risk and liabilities had simply changed hands 
from the private to the public sector. As a consequence, the 
governance of the Eurozone came into question as signiﬁcant 
current account deﬁcits had been run up by countries such as 
Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland. The Greek debt crisis was 
followed by the near-insolvency of the Irish banking system and 
bailout packages reached a staggering EUR200bn. It now seems 
that, in order for the Eurozone to prosper, the rules governing the 
Eurozone will need to be rewritten.
In Asia, China overtook Japan to become the second largest 
economy in the world. Halfway through the year, in order to reduce 
the risk of importing inﬂation, it decided to de-peg its currency 
from the US dollar. In the US, on the other hand, with a fall in the 
popularity of President Obama and a faltering economic recovery, 
the Federal Reserve embarked on a second wave of quantitative 
easing. In the UK, markets broadly welcomed the spending cuts 
agreed by the Coalition Government following the General Election 
in May. Gilt yields remain low by historical standards, but household 
disposable incomes are under severe pressure from tax increases 
and rising prices. 
Sources: Bloomberg and UBS
MSCI All Country World Index 
250
300
350
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
06 Dec: 
Gold peaks at 
USD1,424/oz 
(all time high)
14 Apr: Ash from 
Icelandic volcano 
cripples European 
air trafﬁc
20 Apr: Deepwater 
Horizon drilling rig 
explodes in the Gulf 
of Mexico
13 Jan: EUR/USD 
peaks at 1.4579
27 Jan: Apple 
unveils iPad
10 May: EU and IMF 
announce EUR750bn 
emergency loan facility, as 
Greece is pressed by credit 
markets
11 May: David Cameron 
replaces Gordon Brown 
as UK Prime Minister
19 Jun: China depegs the 
renminbi from the USD
11 Jul: Spain defeat 
The Netherlands in the 
2010 FIFA World Cup
27 Aug: From Jackson Hole, 
US Fed Reserve Chair Bernanke 
suggests further quantitative 
easing may be necessary
02 Nov: Republican Party 
gains control of House and 
wins several Senate seats in 
US mid-term elections
03 Nov: 
US Fed Reserve 
ofﬁcially announces 
QE2
29-30 Nov: Details 
of Irish government 
bailout emerge 5
HENDERSON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2010
OUR BUSINESS 
2-19
GOVERNANCE  
20-44
FINANCIALS
45-89
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
90-92
The market outlook for 2011
Looking at 201 1, world trade and industrial output continue 
to recover, despite continuing concerns over rising inﬂation, 
the sovereign debt crises and the instability of banking systems. 
Strong demand from fast-growing developing countries has led 
to increased sales and improved proﬁtability of manufacturing 
companies around the globe. Our central tenet is that this theme 
is set to continue with industrial stocks poised to deliver good 
returns to shareholders whereas consumer-facing stocks in 
Western markets are likely to disappoint. 
From a regional perspective, the turmoil in sovereign debt markets 
held back European equities in 2010 and we believe valuations of 
these equities have the potential to improve in 201 1 as investor 
interest returns. 
We expect Asian companies could grow earnings by a further 
15% in 201 1. In addition, the region has a young demographic 
proﬁle and relatively strong ﬁscal background, which contrast with 
those of the West. The monetary expansion in the US is feeding 
through to commodity prices and asset prices in Asia. The danger 
is that inﬂation accelerates, requiring a strong reaction by central 
banks, although early moves by Australian, Chinese and Indian 
authorities to tighten monetary policy have been encouraging. 
When it comes to continued economic support, US policymakers 
have been more accommodating than most. The Federal Reserve 
has persisted with stimulus measures aimed at fuelling growth 
long after other countries adopted more hard-line austerity 
measures. The signs are coming through, however, that the 
economy is beginning to respond and US companies have shown 
impressive proﬁt growth. However, investor sentiment is weighed 
down by the high unemployment rate and weak housing market. 
This dichotomy between strong corporate earnings growth and 
a slow US economy is likely to continue in 201 1.
In bond markets, the days of signiﬁcant capital appreciation 
for bond funds are gone and the year ahead will likely focus 
on capital preservation whilst generating a consistent level of 
income. Given uncertainty over how the sovereign debt crisis 
will play out, and its impact on the banking and corporate 
sectors, identifying clear sector themes and combining them with 
company fundamental analysis will be the key to exploiting these 
challenging conditions. The ability to adjust to the ever-changing 
environment will be critical. In an environment where a sustained 
period of rising yields could be detrimental to overall bond market 
returns (should interest rates rise), the ability to utilise a broad 
range of investment instruments could prove invaluable in helping 
to preserve capital.
In the UK and Europe we believe the weight of money chasing 
a limited supply of prime property assets is likely to overheat 
this sub-sector of the market whilst Asian growth markets, such 
as China and Singapore, will continue to look attractive. In the US, 
we expect property markets to continue making a steady recovery.
Regulatory changes
Of the many regulatory developments there have been, 
one of the most prominent for our business is the UK Retail 
Distribution Review, originally launched in 2006, which aims 
to promote a resilient, effective and attractive retail investment 
market. Whilst there are aspects of these rules still to be 
ﬁnalised, we are working to get our business prepared for 
its expected implementation in 2013. Another important 
development has been the Alternative Investment Fund 
Managers Directive. The purpose of this Directive has been to 
provide more transparency and additional regulatory oversight 
of the alternative funds industry and has been in development 
for several years. At this stage, we do not expect this Directive 
to have a signiﬁcant impact on our business. However, much of 
the practical ‘rule making’ that stems from this Directive has yet 
to be promulgated. We observe developments with interest and 
participate where we can to inﬂuence the outcome for fair 
markets for the beneﬁt of investors. 
The FSA has also been reviewing the remuneration practices 
of ﬁnancial services ﬁrms in the UK and published its revised 
Remuneration Code in December 2010.  Our remuneration 
structures are consistent with the revised Code.  
The outlook for the Group
Keeping our clients’ needs at the centre of everything we do will 
drive our success. Joined-up thinking across product development, 
fund management, sales and client service, should ensure that 
we provide clients with more valuable investment products. We 
continue our efforts in making this business more efﬁcient and 
more proﬁtable and ultimately, increasing the value of our franchise. 
In so doing, we will deliver good returns to our shareholders. 
By combining organic growth with being alert to opportunities to 
accelerate our strategic goals, the overriding focus remains our 
clients and ensuring that we have the capabilities required to help 
them achieve their investment objectives. 
We are optimistic about the outlook for markets. We are well 
positioned to grow our existing product range and develop new 
products to distribute through all the channels in all the 
geographies in which we operate.
 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive 
Sources: UBS, Bloomberg and Datastream
UBS Global Equity Risk Appetite Indicator
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
Jan Feb Mar Apr May
High risk appetite
High risk aversion
Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
