 “Markets ended the year strongly despite political 
and economic uncertainty”
Chief Executive’s review
Well positioned to grow
Review of 2012
It was another year that started optimistically 
but was soon overshadowed by political 
and economic uncertainty leading to a 
slide in markets in the second quarter. A 
combination of bank bailouts, quantitative 
easing and ‘Operation Twist’ in the US 
provided some relief, and markets climbed 
again after Mario Draghi, president of the 
European Central Bank, pledged to preserve 
the euro. Against this volatile and uncertain 
backdrop, it is encouraging that equity 
markets ended the year higher than 201 1. 
We also witnessed a changing political 
landscape with leadership changes in 
France and China and of course the noise 
surrounding the US elections. 
All this uncertainty, combined with our 
relatively high exposure to both Europe 
and equities, meant we faced a challenging 
sales environment. Despite this, the Group’s 
underlying profit was down only 8% as we 
matched the percentage fall in revenues 
with a similar percentage decline in costs. 
As the Chairman mentions, we made good 
progress in our key strategic objectives, 
including strengthening our retail business 
and expanding global and absolute return 
products, adding to our presence outside 
of Europe. 
Strengthening our retail business 
T o address the implications of the Retail 
Distribution Review (RDR) in the UK, 
we launched ‘unbundled’ share classes. 
These share classes (often referred to as 
‘clean fee’ share classes) will comply with 
the changes outlined in the RDR where 
investment managers are no longer allowed 
to pay commission to financial intermediaries 
for bringing in new business. 
especially pleased with the success we 
have achieved in our fixed income funds. 
For example, the Henderson Horizon Euro 
Corporate Bond Fund reached €1bn in 
AUM in less than three years from launch 
– and it returned 30.6% over that period, 
outperforming the IBOXX EUR Corp 
benchmark by over 1 2%. Building on 
this strength, we launched the offshore 
Henderson Horizon Euro High Yield Bond 
Fund and look to offer a Horizon Global 
Corporate Bond Fund shortly. 
Globalising our fixed income 
franchise
We have moved ahead in globalising our 
fixed income franchise with the appointment 
of senior credit analysts both in Europe 
and in the US, to help sustain our excellent 
performance record and to meet increasing 
client demand. 
The US team, credit specialists based 
in Philadelphia, is headed by Kevin Loome 
who was formerly employed by Delaware 
Investments where he managed over 
US$6bn of predominantly high yield 
investments. The team will be integrated 
with our UK-based credit team headed by 
Stephen Thariyan and be a vital component 
of our global offering. The two teams share 
a similar investment philosophy and style 
and have managed portfolios across the 
entire credit spectrum. 
We strengthened our UK retail business by 
entering into strategic alliances, including 
Sesame Bankhall Group, and launched a 
range of multi-asset, multi-manager funds 
under the ‘Optimum’ banner. Multi-asset 
investment strategies are increasingly 
demanded by our clients and it is important 
that we have the products and strength 
of talent in our teams to provide the best 
possible investment outcomes and service. 
We hired Paul O’Connor, from Mercer 
Investment Consulting, and James de 
Bunsen, from Armstrong Investment 
Managers. Both have extensive experience 
in asset allocation and the now 1 2-strong 
team has around £5.4bn in AUM. 
We have significantly rationalised our fund 
range, to help us present a clearer product 
line-up to our clients. Our closed-ended 
business, with its well-established range 
of investment trusts, should also be a 
natural beneficiary in a post-RDR world. 
T o provide advisers with a range of 
lower-cost funds that generate income 
and keep their clients within defined risk 
parameters, we launched Henderson 
Core Solutions. These funds, managed by 
the multi-asset team, do not have specific 
income targets or benchmarks but are 
intended to deliver a competitive level 
of income within clearly defined risk 
parameters. They complement Henderson’s 
existing multi-manager fund range, which 
invests primarily in third party active funds 
and are an attractive alternative in a 
persistently low interest rate environment.
We have an excellent European retail 
franchise, with strong performing funds 
and improving fund flows and it remains 
an important part of our business. We are 
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
7
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2
 Overv i ew P e rfo rma nce Gover n anc e Financial statements relative returns. The Hedge Fund Executive 
Management Committee, representing  
the equity managers, is investing in and 
expanding our product offering. We recently 
acquired a 50% interest in Northern Pines 
Capital LLC (Northern Pines), a US long/
short equity hedge fund manager launched 
three years ago. Northern Pines is based  
in Boston and was founded by Pat Dunn 
and Dan Schiff. The fund has a similar 
investment strategy to that of our AlphaGen 
range. Strengthened by our infrastructure 
and distribution, we expect to grow this  
fund as we promote it to our clients in the 
US, Europe and Asia.
More diverse product offering  
in the US
We have diversified our fund offerings in the 
US to reduce our dependency on European 
equities and we successfully launched our 
All Asset and Dividend and Income Builder 
Funds. Both funds draw on the expertise 
and successful investment track records  
of our existing fund managers. Our Global 
Equity Income Fund was our main source  
of net inflows in the US, its assets growing 
by just over 30%, and it was in the top 3% 
selling funds in the Lipper Equity Income 
category in 201 2. 
As already mentioned, we hired the 
US-based credit specialists team. This is a 
significant step forward in the globalisation 
of our fixed income business and is in direct 
response to increasing client and consultant 
demand for global credit products. 
New hires to expand our presence 
in Australia and Asia 
In little more than eight months, we have 
made significant progress in moving ahead 
with our ambitions in Australia. Rob Adams, 
who was appointed in May as Head of  
our Australian business and charged with 
developing and directing the strategy, has 
secured Board approval for a three tier 
approach to expanding in this important 
market for us. The first step is to build a 
distribution hub in Sydney; we have hired 
Matt Gaden to head it up. In the future  
we plan to have both funds managed and 
products launched locally. 
We also recruited two senior distribution 
professionals in Asia. In October,  
Shiro Tsubota joined as the new Chief 
Executive of our Japanese business and 
Mabel Chan joined as Head of Retail 
Distribution, Asia ex Japan.
Chief Executive’s review continued
Restructured teams in Equities
In Equities, we have restructured our teams 
under four key business areas: 
(1) European Equities. Although these 
equities were out of favour for most of 201 2, 
our managers, led by John Bennett, have 
outstanding investment records and believe 
current conditions offer attractive returns  
for the patient investor. 
(2) Global Equities. We have recently 
consolidated our activities in this area under 
the leadership of Stephen Peak. We are 
already well known for our Global Equity 
Income products, as well as our specialist 
products such as T echnology and Property 
Securities, and have strengthened our team 
with the appointment of Matt Beesley,  
a highly respected fund manager who is 
spearheading our global equity and EAFE 
proposition. We have also brought together 
our Asian and Emerging Markets teams  
to create a unified Global Emerging  
Market offering. 
(3) Multi-Asset. As explained on the previous 
page, we have developed innovative new 
products for UK retail clients to suit the  
post RDR world. Bill McQuaker has been 
expanding his team to support him in our 
asset allocation investments.
(4) Absolute Return. We recognise that 
clients increasingly want lower volatility 
together with absolute rather than simply 
2012 – Henderson Group share price performance (% growth)
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
–– Ordinary shares –– FTSE 250 –– CDIs –– ASX 200
8
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2 Property remained resilient
Our Property business remained resilient. 
We raised equity for new and existing  
funds and took advantage of opportunities 
to expand our business and widen our 
distribution platform. 
We continued our strict discipline of choosing 
only the best investments to meet our clients’ 
objectives. Given the shortage of quality 
properties, we also made extensive use of 
our in-house development team to pursue 
more value-add projects.
Last year, we also extended two of our 
funds, the UK Shopping Centre Fund  
and our AUB French Logistics Fund. We 
continue to engage with clients in order  
to determine the best solution for them  
as funds approach their expiry dates.
We have expanded our European 
distribution through partnering with Investire 
Immobiliare SGR in Italy, opening an office in 
Stockholm and acquiring Horizon Investment 
Management France SAS. We also want  
to expand our brand and presence in Asia, 
and have become investment adviser to  
a Singapore joint venture – Silk Road – to 
invest and develop designer outlet malls in 
China together with our partner RDM Asia 
and an existing client. This is an exciting 
development and our first move into the 
Chinese property market. It will form the 
cornerstone of growth for Property in the 
Asia Pacific region.
Good progress in Private Equity
Our Private Equity business made good 
progress in the year, with the exception  
of Henderson PFI Secondary Fund II L.P .  
(Fund II). Our Asian private equity funds  
and Fund of Funds businesses continue  
to perform well, as did our Henderson PFI 
Secondary Fund I (Fund I). As for Fund II,  
the most notable development was resolving 
its litigation issues. This is in the best 
interests of all our stakeholders and we 
continue working hard to increase the  
value of Fund II. 
2012 – the year that was
5,800
5,600
6,000
5,200
5,400
5,000 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec
–– FTSE 100
Source: UBS Equity Strategy review and own Group research.
5 Jul
UK BoE £50bn QE 
programme; ECB cuts rates
13 Jan 
S&P downgrades a 
number of eurozone 
countries’ credit ratings
5 Mar 
Putin wins Russian 
presidential election
8 Mar 
Greece secures acceptance 
of its debt swap offer
30 Mar 
Eurozone finance ministers 
agree to enlarge fiscal bailout
23 Apr
Dutch election
25 Apr
Q1 data confirms  
UK back in recession
30 Jun
Mursi sworn in as Egypt’s 
first civilian democratically 
elected president
29 Jun
EU leaders agree to use bailout 
fund to support struggling banks
27 Jul
201 2 Olympics 
commence in London
29 Oct
Hurricane Sandy
15 Nov
Xi Jinping confirmed 
as new leader of China
16 Nov
Japan PM dissolves 
parliament, triggers 
election on 1 6 Dec
24 Nov
‘Gangnam Style’ 
becomes most watched 
video ever on Y ouT ube
6 Nov
Obama re-elected 
as US president
26 Jul
European markets  
rally as Draghi pledges 
to preserve the euro
5 Jun
The Queen’s 
diamond jubilee
20 Jun
US Fed extends ‘Operation 
T wist’; Samaras sworn in  
as Greek prime minister
7 May
Hollande wins French 
presidential election
11 Jun
Eurozone 
ministers agree  
to lend €100bn  
to Spanish banks
9 Feb 
UK BoE expands QE
6 Sep
Draghi unveils details of  
new bond buying – Outright 
Monetary T ransactions 
12 Dec
US Fed announces 
new round of monetary 
stimulus to replace 
‘Operation T wist’
13 Sep
US Fed announces 
third round of QE
1 Jan
US ‘fiscal  
cliff’ resolved
9
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2
 Overv i ew P e rfo rma nce Gover n anc e Financial statements Chief Executive’s review continued
We simplified and streamlined  
the business
Our various initiatives last year all cost 
money, so we had to redeploy resources 
from other parts of our business. Although 
we increased our overall gross sales 
following the acquisitions of New Star and 
Gartmore, our net sales remained negative 
last year, so we conducted a detailed review 
of our business structure. 
This identified problems with some legacy 
products and structures and (in a few areas) 
poor investment performance. 
T o tackle these weaknesses, we needed  
a simplified business structure. We have 
therefore removed the role of Chief 
Investment Officer, with the Heads  
of Equities and Fixed Income joining  
the Executive Committee (ExCo). In 
addition, we centralised all of our support 
functions under Shirley Garrood, Chief 
Financial Officer. 
These changes have strengthened our 
commitment to delivering quality investment 
expertise, performance and service to  
our clients.
Outlook for Equities
Overall, we feel optimistic about the outlook 
for equities this year while recognising that 
investors still need to be convinced that the 
worst of the economic crisis is behind them. 
Clearly, there are risks in 2013: the ‘debt 
ceiling’ debate in the US, the well-publicised 
issues in the eurozone and continued unrest 
in the Middle East. However, we should not 
lose sight of the fact that the vast majority  
of companies are generating cash and have 
made great strides in strengthening their 
balance sheets. The equity income investor 
is being rewarded with the yield on equity 
markets globally expected to be 3.3% in 
2013 and dividends are forecast to grow  
by 8%, well above inflation. Furthermore,  
if growth improves in the first quarter,  
the demands for more deleveraging will 
abate. Much would follow from this: greater 
confidence in equity earnings should prompt 
a move out of cash into risk assets. 
All said, we continue to believe that 
European equities offer compelling value 
and that concerns around Europe, which  
are well known, are at least partly priced  
in already. 
It is impossible to say whether, based on 
recent market movements, the bear market 
has come to an end. I am strongly of the 
view however, that so long as investors 
adopt a medium-term investment horizon 
and are willing to take a longer-term view  
on European equities, they will be rewarded 
with solid total returns from this asset class.
With the re-election of President Obama, 
Ben Bernanke is likely to remain  
Chairman of the US Fed until January 201 4, 
thus ensuring monetary policy remains 
stimulative. Although US equities have  
been out of favour for some time with 
domestic investors, we think this is now 
likely to change. 
The outlook for Asia is good: valuations  
are attractive, corporate fundamentals  
remain solid and balance sheets are  
strong. Evidently, uncertainty over the 
macroeconomic backdrop remains and in the 
short term at least, it is going to be difficult for 
Asian markets to disconnect from what is 
going on in the global economy. We remain 
confident that this is an attractive time to 
invest in Asia for the medium to long term. 
We expect companies to become increasingly 
upbeat about their prospects as the growth 
outlook for the region improves as we move 
through 201 3. In terms of opportunities, 
China is the market with the most investment 
appeal from a valuation perspective and  
its current position in the growth cycle.  
As politics plays a critical role in driving the 
business cycle, the peak year of China’s 
investment growth is likely to come in 201 3 
as the new leaders begin to implement their 
growth plans. 
Despite the opportunities, risks remain. 
Should there be an inflationary spike, 
domestic interest rates could be driven 
higher and governments may become less 
accommodative in implementing measures 
to boost growth, though this is far from our 
central case.
Outlook for Fixed Income
Bond spreads – sovereign and corporate – 
have widened and narrowed markedly all in 
the same year. We do not believe that the 
returns delivered in 201 2 will be followed  
by further double digit returns. 
The much talked about potential for a  
“great rotation” out of bonds into equities 
could damage sentiment in the fixed income 
markets in 2013. In fact, the positive start  
to the year by equities may be in anticipation 
of such a shift. Whilst long-dated 
government bonds are likely to come  
under selling pressure, not only as a result  
of the potential for rotation but also given 
their absolute yield levels, we believe that 
corporate bond markets still offer the 
potential for positive returns. 
Our fixed income clients benefit from  
a choice of products which offer many 
different active investment strategies.  
One of our favoured investment areas is 
“double core” bonds – bonds from core 
companies in core countries. 
Furthermore, our fixed income portfolio 
managers oversee a host of strategies,  
many of which should deliver positive  
returns in the 4% to 7% range during 2013.
Increasingly we are seeing client demand  
for ‘total return’ structures which allow our 
managers to asset allocate across all of our 
fixed income strategies.
10
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2 Outlook for Property
Globalisation has had a significant impact  
on international capital flows in all asset 
classes. Property is no exception; investors 
are adapting their allocations globally in 
order to enhance their potential risk adjusted 
returns and achieve diversification. 
In Europe, it is hard to envisage 2013 being 
significantly different from 201 2, with 
performance relying on income security and 
active asset management. Depending on 
developments in the eurozone, there could 
be a sell-off of exposures in the periphery 
with hopes for a strong recovery waning; but 
equally, investors could well make their first 
commitment back into the region on the 
back of encouraging economic numbers. 
In the US, which is buoyed by more 
favourable growth assumptions, pricing has 
generally levelled off. However, mirroring 
both Europe and Asia, the market continues 
to have pricing disparities across real estate 
types and markets. The speed of recovery 
across occupier markets differs considerably 
between geographies, sectors and quality  
of product, a trend likely to persist. A return 
to employment growth has supported an 
improvement in retailer performance, though 
rentals and valuations remain challenging. 
The major US markets should resume  
their recovery as confidence improves,  
but investors would do well to focus on 
primary markets. 
In Asia, a number of developments will have 
a significant impact on the region’s capital 
and real estate markets. China’s new 
leadership will provide support for economic 
growth prospects, whilst new governments 
in Japan and South Korea are already 
affecting fiscal and monetary policy. These 
socio-political events could lead to revised 
growth forecasts which will in turn mean 
investors need to time their entry and exit 
points in tandem with the projected real 
estate cycles.
Regulatory outlook
Governments and regulators continue  
to drive regulatory change to improve  
the operation, security and ultimately  
the reputation of global wholesale and  
retail markets. 
In the UK, the approach to the supervision  
of regulated retail firms continues to move 
towards a greater consideration of business 
strategies, firm governance and outcomes 
for consumers. Rule changes such as the 
RDR emphasise the regulatory commitment 
to the fair treatment of customers and the 
avoidance of conflicts. 
Regulatory bodies within the EU continue  
to initiate and enact new regulations aimed 
at harmonising the EU financial services 
industry. The EU Alternative Investment 
Fund Managers Directive (AIFMD) will 
change the landscape for diversified asset 
managers operating regulated and 
alternative funds. 
Increasingly, US and other international 
regulations are impacting the environment  
in which we operate, leading to new and 
challenging obligations to address as  
our business develops. We are strongly 
committed to meeting these challenges. 
The outlook for the Group
Looking ahead, I am positive about the 
outlook for the Group. We have made many 
changes to our structure and operations 
over the past four years, and they have  
put us in a stronger position to capitalise  
on the opportunities in the market. 
I am confident that we are now in a position 
to deliver the products and level of service 
our clients need. Delivering on clients’ 
investment objectives, and providing them 
with the service they deserve and expect,  
is at the heart of everything we do. 
Establishing their trust and working with 
them in partnership is paramount. 
Achieving this will result in organic business 
growth which will enable us to continue 
investing in areas for future growth.
Ongoing changes in the regulatory 
environment will add costs to our 
organisation. However, this is a small  
price to pay to deliver a better and trusted 
governance structure which should improve 
clients’ confidence in how their investments 
are being managed.
Thank you
I would like to thank Rupert for his 
outstanding contribution to the Board.  
I have greatly appreciated his guidance  
and support as we positioned Henderson  
for future growth. 
In Richard Gillingwater, we are pleased to 
have found such a high calibre replacement. 
I very much look forward to working closely 
with him and benefiting from the significant 
experience he brings to the Board.
I would also like to thank our staff for all 
their hard work to ensure that we deliver 
excellence to our clients.
Andrew Formica
Chief Executive
11
Henderson Group
Annual Report 201 2
 Overv i ew P e rfo rma nce Gover n anc e Financial statements
