 Chairman’s statement
Dear Shareholder
It is a great privilege to chair Henderson in the 
company’s 80th year. This anniversary has given me the 
opportunity to look back over the company’s history, as 
well as forward to its future. A series of familiar themes 
emerge. First, the boldness with which our founding 


America, Spain and East Africa, and was one of the 
early pioneers of global investing. It strikes me that he 
would have approved of the high conviction, active, 
global approach which unites our fund managers today. 
Second, the tradition of innovation which began with 

Administration, founded to manage his estate. In the 
1950s and 60s, Henderson Administration switched 
 
of growth, and built a reputation for well managed 
investment trusts. Third, longstanding relationships, built 

was merged into Cazenove Ackroyd in 1932, and  
JP Morgan Cazenove remains one of our corporate 
advisers to this day. The words written by the third  
Lord Faringdon to introduce his book commemorating 
the company’s 50th anniversary ring as true now as  

continue to depend upon our own people, on the host  
of international connections we are lucky enough to 


 
is deeply ingrained in our corporate history. It is of vital 
importance that we respect the fact that we are trusted 
with our clients’ money, on which their future wellbeing 
may depend. I see it as a key part of the Board’s  
role to set a clear tone from the top, and to reinforce  

interests and treating customers fairly are topics 
discussed regularly and in depth by the Board, and  


During the last year, some of the Board spent time 
visiting our UK retail transfer agent, International 
Financial Data Services, to review how a subset of our 

and concerns are dealt with. I, personally, am keen  
to meet a wide cross section of clients. I have met  
with all the Chairs of our Investment Trusts and  
have received valuable feedback. In addition, Angela 


 
also recognised the value of its regular discussions 
around clients.

Board was carried out by Independent Board Evaluation. 
This found that the Board was effective in its operation 
and had improved from the previous evaluation. 
2014 viewed from the Boardroom

history is written, I would like to think that 2014 will  
be remembered as a year of disciplined investment in 

to continue to build our investment management 

America and Australia, and to continue to invest in 
global platforms. Most of our investments focused on 
organic growth, but these initiatives were supplemented  


America. The launch of TIAA Henderson Real Estate  

strategic project, to give clients invested in Property 

capital to accelerate future growth. This, combined  

business, demonstrates Henderson’s strategic  

Henderson’s strategic philosophy  
of being client-led is deeply ingrained  

Richard Gillingwater 
Chairman
4  Ben Gutteridge — Brewin Dolphin  
Henderson has helped shape the delivery 
of our investment thoughts to our group – 
they have been a pioneer in that regard.
CLIENT 
 FOCUS 
Strategic report
 5 Management in 2009 and Gartmore in 201 1. 


major markets. Despite a heightened level of organic 


I was particularly pleased to see the progress made 
across the business this year to build the leadership 
team, in support of our growth and globalisation 


and Phil Wagstaff (Global Head of Distribution), he 
completes a strong senior team to support Chief 

the business demonstrate Henderson’s increasing 

seen as an attractive, ambitious, growing business. 
Over the course of 2014, the Board continued its 
programme of engagement with a broad range of 

shareholders. We engage actively with our regulators, 
to ensure that we maintain an open dialogue about their 

to working responsibly with our regulators to strengthen 

broaden and strengthen our engagement with our 
shareholders. We commissioned an Investor Perception 
Study and reviewed its implications at the Board, 
and I was pleased to meet many of our loyal Australian 
shareholders in person during the Board’s visit to Sydney 
for the Annual General Meeting in May. Tim How, as 
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, consulted 
widely with shareholders about the changes to our 
remuneration policy and practice which we propose 
to introduce this year. 
Dividend and capital management
Henderson’s capital position strengthened during 2014, 
and we ended the year with a regulatory capital surplus. 



April 2016. During 2015, our priority will be to build the 
level of capital buffer deemed appropriate by the Board 
to take our capital to a robust position. 
Henderson operates a progressive ordinary dividend 

in line with earnings growth over the medium term. 

of 6.4 pence per share, bringing the total dividend for 
the year to 9.0 pence per share, a 12.5% increase over 

on 29 May 2015 to shareholders on the register on 
8 May 2015. 
Chairman’s statement continued
Conclusion
In our 80th anniversary year, Henderson has continued 
its long tradition of investing in people, capabilities 

and service to our clients. Our growth and globalisation 



In closing, I would like to thank my fellow Board 
members for their support and commitment, and 

for a successful year. My thanks also to our shareholders 
and clients for their continuing support.
Richard Gillingwater
Chairman
Governance is paramount to our 
sustainable success.
At Henderson, we are committed to making certain that the Board 
devotes enough time to consider the Group’s strategy and its links 
to the business. We believe that our governance framework remains 
robust, continuing to enable us to deliver on our strategy.
Read our detailed report on governance from page 44
6 
