 Chairman’s statement
‘
Another strong 
performance
’
Moger W oolley
The group has delivered another strong performance and has
achieved excellent financial results from the regulated water
company and a positive contribution from other businesses.
Regulated water business
In last year’s Annual Report, we signalled that the progressive
build up of the regulated business’s capital programme, with its
consequent additional financing, depreciation and operating
costs, together with the relatively low level of increase in
charges under the RPI+K price limits of 1.9% would have a 
significant impact on profits. Given this background, the result
achieved of a profit before tax of £14.6m compared to
£13.9m in the previous year represents an excellent outcome.
This is due to a combination of factors including a real terms
reduction in operating costs and the effects of a lower than
expected level of capital expenditure.
During the year, we commenced a £12m project for a major
upgrade of Barrow, our second largest water treatment plant,
with completion planned for Spring 2004.
We continued to deliver high levels of service to customers.
This is reflected by our position in the latest Ofwat report on
service levels for 2001/02, which ranked us third of all water
companies in England and Wales.
We have developed a new financing package for the regulated
water business.This was completed shortly after the year end.
Prior to completion, the business had a relatively short debt
maturity profile.The new structure will provide a better mix
of financing and a considerably longer maturity profile, more
appropriate to the long-term nature of its asset base.The new
facilities offer flexibility for the future including the ability to
substantially increase the financial gearing of the company.
However, it is not the Board’s current intention to do so.
The key issue for the water sector is the Periodic Review process
through which Ofwat will set price limits for the 5 years 2005-10.
It is much too early to forecast the outcome, but we are encour-
aged that the approach Ofwat is taking in the early stages of the
process is intended to lead to an appropriate balance between
the interests of customers and shareholders.
Other businesses
Our other businesses made a good contribution to profits
with profit before tax of £1.5m compared to £1.7m in 
the previous year. The small reduction reflects improved
performance offset by start up costs associated with three
new developments; Gas Design Consultancy (GDC), a
design business linked very closely to Lawrence; establishing
our new leakage consultancy company in the USA; and the
Watergrid project start-up costs.
Lawrence, the contracting division, has built on last year’s
result and recorded an increase in profit before tax to £1.4m
(2002 - £1.1m). During the year we reviewed the strategic 
fit of Lawrence within the group and concluded that its 
contracting base was inconsistent with our business focus on
core water skills. Accordingly, we are considering the potential
sale of Lawrence, together with its sister company GDC.
Our international division (BWS) continues to make
progress. We are now three years into the nine-year
Selangor project in Malaysia.This project for the reduction of
water losses, which is being carried out by our joint venture
company PABW, has met all its performance targets.
2 Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003 During 2002, we established a new BWS company in the
USA, which we see as an attractive future market for our
water loss reduction skill base. The company has already
secured a number of small contracts.
We are pleased that the Bristol Water Holdings/AWG 
consortium has been selected as British Waterways’ partner
for the Watergrid project. With our long experience as the
largest user of canal water for the purpose of water supply in
the UK, this fits well with our core water skills based strategy.
Watergrid offers an opportunity for us to work with our
partners to use our expertise in a wider market, outside the
Bristol area.
Financial result and dividends
Profit before tax for the year increased to £16.1m com-
pared to £15.6m in the previous year.The high deferred tax
charge means that earnings per share have fallen.
We have declared a 6% increase in the final dividend, bringing
the total dividend for the year to 70.6p, a 5% increase over
2001/02. The final dividend of 49.8p will be paid on 
1 October 2003.
Higgs Report
The Board already follows many of the proposals contained
within the Higgs Report and will review this matter further
once the recommendations are finalised.
Corporate changes
We are proposing, subject to shareholder approval at the
Annual General Meeting, to make some changes to the
share capital structure of the company and the Articles of
Association.
We currently have 2% of the ordinary shares in a separate
non-voting class. We propose to convert these to voting
shares thus removing an historical anomaly.
At the same time, given the current share price, we propose
a share split on the basis of five new ordinary shares for each
existing share.We believe that this will be a benefit to share-
holders by increasing the marketability and liquidity of the
company’s shares.The share split, if approved, is expected to
take effect from 28 July 2003.
Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003 3
‘
Delivered high levels of 
service to customers
’ 4 Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003
We are proposing a general power for the Board to make
market purchases for up to 10% of the issued share capital.
The Board has no current intention to utilise this authority but
believes it appropriate to obtain this flexibility.
The Board proposes to redesignate the 5,839,250 autho-
rised but unissued 6.75% cumulative convertible redeemable
preference shares as Ordinary Shares.
We also propose some further amendments to the Articles
of Association of the company to update them in line with
current practice.
Full details of the proposed changes, which will require
approval at an extraordinary class meeting of the non-voting
shareholders, in respect of the proposed conversion to voting
status, and as special business at the Annual General Meeting
of the company will be set out in the formal notices for
those meetings.
Outlook
The continued progressive build up of the regulated business’s
capital programme, with its consequent additional financing,
depreciation and operating cost implications, together with the
relatively low level of increase in charges under the RPI+K price
limits to customers for 2003/04 of 2.7%, including a K factor of
0%, and a negative K factor of 1.9% in 2004/05 will constrain
profits over the next two years.
The progress that the group made during the year together
with the two key initiatives of refinancing the regulated water
business and the potential sale of Lawrence will place the
group in a strong position.
My thanks go to all our employees who have contributed to
the success of the group.
Moger Woolley
Chairman
29 May 2003
‘
Group will be placed in 
a strong position
’
