 Bristol Water plc – 
the regulated business
During the year, we have continued to consolidate the 
considerable operating cost reductions made in recent years.
A major focus has been the continued development of the joint
venture with Wessex Water to enable the two companies to
issue combined bills to customers.The first joint bills for unmea-
sured customers were issued at the beginning of the year with
the first metered bills being issued in November.With the billing
system now fully operational, this will allow us to progressively
realise the planned efficiency gains from the new arrangement
together with the provision of a simplified and improved serv-
ice to customers. High levels of service to customers have been
maintained throughout this complex process.
During the year, we achieved certification to the new 
ISO 9001:2000 quality standard, upgrading from our previous
ISO 9001:1994 assessment.The scope of our quality manage-
ment system covers all aspects of the production and distribu-
tion of water, technical design and the procurement of related
products and services.
We have initiated a major review of the processes and cost
structure in the business. Our objective is to identify the
potential scope for further efficiency gains.The exercise will
take a further few months to complete. Throughout the
process we are evaluating carefully the trade-offs between
cost reductions and the associated risks.
We were pleased by our ranking in the latest Ofwat report
on service levels by water companies in 2001/02.We were
ranked third of all water companies in England and Wales
and have been the most consistently highly-rated company
over the past few years.This recognises our commitment to
the delivery of high levels of service to customers.
Our capital programme for the five years to 2005, as set out
in the Final Determination, amounts to £125m (May 1999
prices). In accordance with the Drinking Water
Inspectorate’s protocol we have not yet commenced the
lead pipe replacement programme that was incorporated in
Ofwat’s price determination, pending the results of
orthophosphate dosing trials currently in progress. These
are currently demonstrating substantial compliance with the
lead standard that comes into force in 2013 and it is
increasingly likely that the actual spend on lead pipe
replacement during the five year period will be at a 
relatively low level.
Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003 5
Chief Executive’s report
‘
Commitment to 
delivery of high service
standards
’
Alan Parsons Capital investment, including infrastructure renewals, net of
grants and contributions, for the year totalled £20.0m. Key projects
included the completion of our 30 month, £12m mains 
renovation programme, which has involved the renovation of
some 250km of mains throughout our area.We also completed
the installation of a barrier to remove cryptosporidium oocysts
at the Chelvey water treatment works, bringing the total of
treatment works with such barriers to eight.
We have recently commenced a £12m project for a major
upgrade of our Barrow treatment plant, with completion planned
for Spring 2004. Expenditure on the project at some £1.7m 
during the year was lower than originally expected reflecting a
revised project plan and delays in obtaining relevant planning
approvals.This is a complex project and is progressing well.
Ofwat has set out details of the planned Periodic Review
process that will set price limits for the 5 years from 2005
to 2010. Ofwat’s process will take almost two years to com-
plete and the outcome will be extremely important to the
business.The first major milestone is the submission of our
draft business plan to Ofwat during August 2003.
The refinancing arrangements explained in the Chairman’s
statement effectively apply a financial ringfencing to the reg-
ulated water business and provide flexibility to increase its
debt levels significantly in the future. We have no current
plans to substantially increase gearing levels, but believe that
in arranging long term financing it was appropriate to create
this type of flexibility.
As noted in the Chairman’s statement, profits for the next
two years will be influenced by a range of additional costs,
in particular the financing, depreciation and operating cost impli-
cations of the continuing capital programme.We will continue
to seek further operational efficiency gains whilst ensuring that
we do not compromise our high standards of service.
Other businesses
Lawrence
Despite the anticipated reduction in turnover from its
pipeline division, Lawrence consolidated the turnaround
achieved over the last three years with an increase in profit
before tax to £1.4m (2002 - £1.1m).
During the year we established a sister company to
Lawrence, Gas Design Consultancy (GDC). GDC is a design
house for gas pipeline projects.Trading losses during its start up
year amounted to £0.3m. GDC has considerable synergies with
Lawrence and we believe that it will add value either within
the group or in the event of a sale of Lawrence.
6 Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003
‘
Seeking further 
operational efficiency 
gains
’ Bristol Water Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2003 7
Lawrence does not fit well with our core water skill based
strategy. During the year we concluded that the turnaround
process, as demonstrated by Lawrence’s financial perform-
ance, had progressed sufficiently that it was appropriate to
consider a sale of both Lawrence and GDC.
Bristol W ater Services(BWS) 
BWS is our international division providing network manage-
ment services, specialising in leakage reduction.
Together with our joint venture partner, Premier Ayer Sdn
Bhd, we are now three years into the nine-year phase 2
Selangor project in Malaysia. This project for non-revenue
water reduction is being carried out by our joint venture
company PABW and continues to meet all performance 
targets, making a useful contribution to satisfying the increasing
demands for water in Kuala Lumpur and surrounding areas.
The consultancy project that BWS and its consortium 
partners was awarded earlier this year, to identify performance
indicators and best practice methodologies for leakage reduction
across North America, is now well under way. Given our 
success in securing both this contract and further contracts in 
the region we have now established a new subsidiary company
in the USA.
BWS is taking the lead role in a £1m, eighteen-month project
for the European Agency for Reconstruction to assist in the
restructuring and development of the water industry within
Kosovo.
Overall, the division achieved a break-even position (2002 -
£0.1m profit before tax), after continued investment in 
marketing and business development, including the establish-
ment of a presence in the USA.
Watergrid
The Watergrid project is a unique opportunity to apply our
experience of using canal water to supply customers in a
wider market. A new company, Watergrid Ltd, has been
established as a national joint venture between the public
and private sectors. Using the extensive canal and river 
network for the movement of water,Watergrid Ltd is seeking
to serve multiple customer bases with bespoke water services
and wastewater treatment facilities.
Watergrid Ltd has been formed between the Bristol Water
Holdings/AWG consortium, British Waterways and the
Government’s PPP facilitator, Partnerships UK. Both Bristol
Water and AWG have effective 22.5% equity interests in the
new venture.
Alan Parsons
Chief Executive
29 May 2003
‘
Periodic Review process -
outcome will be 
extremely important
’
