 Chief Executive’s summary continued
Central costs and other
Net operating cost £3.7m (2015: £5.4m)
This segment includes our share of the 
management fee earned by our joint 
venture with Woolworths of £3.1m 
(2015: £1.2m), start-up and support costs 
in connection with the joint venture of 
£0.6m (2015: £1.2m) and central costs of 
£6.2m (2015: £5.4m).
In Australia the Group has a joint venture 
with Woolworths, under which it earns 
a 50% share of the agreed management 
fees charged by the joint venture 
company to Woolworths for operating 
certain Woolworths’ meat processing 
and packing plants, based on the volume 
of retail packed meat delivered to 
Woolworths’ stores. The joint venture 
company is responsible for the operation 
of Woolworths’ Western Australian 
meat processing centre in Bunbury, its 
Queensland meat processing centre 
in Brisbane and the new purpose built 
retail packing facility near Melbourne 
in Victoria which started production in 
September 2015.
Volumes in Australia grew by 134% in the 
year as the Melbourne facility ramped up 
production towards its normal operating 
capacity. In addition start-up costs 
reduced as expected. Central costs were 
higher as we increased our resources 
to manage our growth successfully and 
additionally the share scheme charge 
increased attributable to surpassing 
threshold performance.
Performance overview
The overall performance of our business 
was strong across its three separate 
operating segments as outlined below.
Western Europe
Operating profit of £35.9m 
(2015: £32.1m) on turnover  
of £1,147.5m (2015: £1,020.7m)
This operating segment covers the 
Group’s businesses in the UK, Ireland, 
Holland, Sweden and Denmark. On a 
comparable 52 week basis volumes were 
3.8% higher than last year, principally 
reflecting good volume growth in the 
UK and encouraging growth in our Irish 
business. The range of products supplied 
was extended during the year to include 
fresh pizzas and meal boxes from our 
Swedish facility.
Sales on a like-for-like 52 week constant 
currency basis grew by 7.0% reflecting 
the higher volumes and boosted by the 
launch of Hilton Food Solutions, our new 
meat trading business which is a logical 
development given Hilton’s procurement 
strengths and extensive global contacts 
in the meat trade.
Central Europe
Operating profit of £2.1m (2015: £2.3m) 
on turnover of £87.0m (2015: £74.1m)
In Central Europe the Group’s meat 
packing business, based at Tychy in 
Poland, supplies customers across 
Central Europe, from Hungary to the 
Baltics. This multi-customer business 
supplies Ahold stores in Czech Republic 
and Slovakia, Tesco stores in Hungary, 
Czech Republic, Poland and Slovakia 
and Rimi stores in Latvia, Lithuania 
and Estonia. Volumes decreased by 
4.5% due to competitive headwinds. 
Conversely sales grew by 8.8% at 
constant currency driven by increased 
raw material prices and a mix shift into 
beef. Range was extended to include 
fresh pizzas and sous vide products.
14
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
