 Chairman’s introduction
Colin Smith OBE
Non-Executive Chairman
Strategic progress
I am pleased to report continued progress 
in 2016 against our strategic objectives and 
a further expansion of our global footprint. 
In December 2016 we announced 
plans to expand packing capabilities in 
Australia with the construction of a new 
factory in Queensland with our existing 
Australian partner, Woolworths Ltd, 
which Hilton will finance and operate. 
In January 2017 we announced the joint 
venture agreement with Sonae Modelo 
Continente, the leading food retailer in 
Portugal, our fourteenth European country. 
Our product range has increased to include 
fresh pizzas and we have successfully 
launched a new UK meat trading company. 
These developments bode well for 
Hilton’s future.
Group performance
Despite competitive market conditions 
we grew our volume in 2016 maintaining 
a trend of continuous growth achieved 
in every year since Hilton’s flotation in 
2007. Strong underlying operating profit 
growth of over 11% was boosted further 
by favourable exchange translation 
movements to over 18%. Basic earnings 
per share at 33.7p were over 22% higher 
than last year. 
Hilton continued to generate significant 
cash during 2016 enabling the Group’s net 
cash position to grow from £12.7m at the 
end of 2015 to £32.3m at the end of the 
year. As well as being available to fund our 
new projects in Australia and Portugal we 
are well positioned to take advantage of 
other opportunities as they arise.
08
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016 Governance Financial statements Overview Strategic report
Continued progress against  
our strategic objectives.
Our continued investment in our facilities 
includes new technology to increase 
capacity, improve operational efficiency 
and offer innovative solutions to our 
retailer partners.
There is currently a climate of local, global 
and geopolitical uncertainties including 
the UK’s decision to leave the European 
Union. Although the final terms of Brexit 
are unknown, Hilton’s predominantly local 
sourcing and operating model leaves us 
well placed and we are confident that 
the Hilton business is resilient to weather 
these uncertainties.
Dividend policy
The Board considers that the Group’s 
progressive dividend policy maintained 
since flotation remains appropriate, given 
both the strategic progress achieved in 
2016 and Hilton’s continuing strong level 
of cash generation. With the proposed 
final dividend of 12.5p per ordinary share 
for 2016, total dividends in respect of 
2016 will be 17.1p per ordinary share, an 
increase of 17.1% compared to last year. 
Our Board and governance
The Hilton Board is responsible for the 
long term success of the Group and, to 
achieve this, it contains an appropriate 
mix of skills and depth and a range of 
practical business experience, which 
is available to support and guide our 
management teams across a wide range 
of countries. 
During the year I was elected as the 
Company’s new Chairman. In addition 
two Non-Executive Directors, Sir David 
Naish and Chris Marsh, left the Board 
following completion of nine year terms 
and Theo Bergman also stepped down 
as an Executive Director due to personal 
circumstances. Each made a significant 
contribution to Hilton’s business and 
they leave with our very best wishes. 
John Worby and Christine Cross joined 
the Board as Non-Executive Directors 
bringing significant experience in public 
companies, as well as food and retail 
sectors. I believe that their appointments 
complement our Board with additional 
experience and diversity. I would like 
to thank my colleagues on the Board 
for their support, counsel and expertise 
during the year.
We remain committed to achieving good 
governance and compliance with the UK 
Corporate Governance Code including 
succession planning and maintaining a 
talent pipeline.
Annual General Meeting
This year’s AGM will be held at the Old 
Bridge Hotel, 1 High Street, Huntingdon, 
Cambridgeshire PE29 3TQ on 24 May 
2017 at noon and my colleagues and 
I very much look forward to seeing those 
of you who are able to attend.
Colin Smith OBE 
Non-Executive Chairman
29 March 2017
09
Hilton Food Group plc 
Annual report and financial statements 2016
