 And there is still 
plenty more to come.
We are positioned to deliver sustainable and significant 
growth in total shareholder returns.
2016 has proved to be a watershed year for the Company. We are now 
fully benefitting from the results of our growth and cost focused 
strategy with a consistent record of operational excellence driving 
significantly improved cashflows, reduced leverage and increased 
shareholder returns. Furthermore, our exploration team is working on 
a variety of opportunities for securing additional low cost growth in 
the areas surrounding our mines which we believe will allow for 
capacity improvements and life-of-mine extensions at our operations.
Operations
A consistent delivery of annual production targets has become a 
trademark of our Company and 2016 was no exception. We produced a 
record 35.5 million attributable silver equivalent ounces, an 11% 
improvement on our original 32 million ounce target, with 
Inmaculada’s output at almost 17 million ounces (229 million gold 
equivalent ounces). In its first full year, the all-in sustaining cost at this 
world class operation was a highly competitive $8.7 per silver 
equivalent ounce ($644 per gold equivalent ounce) which resulted 
from robust operational delivery. We also saw a successful year at 
Arcata, which produced just over 8 million ounces at a cost of $13.7 per 
silver equivalent ounce. At San Jose, continuing operational consistency 
combined with a vastly improved fiscal environment in Argentina led 
to an 18% reduction in AISC and strongly improved cashflow 
generation. The renewed Pallancata mine experienced a transitional 
year as we prepare to move production to low cost feed from the new 
Pablo vein district during 2017. We have maintained our focus on cost 
control at all operations, and the resulting 13% reduction in overall 
all-in sustaining costs to $11.2 per silver equivalent ounce demonstrates 
the effectiveness of our policies. As a management team, we are 
committed to ensuring a safe working environment and we will 
redouble our efforts in the area of safety in light of the tragic  
accident at Inmaculada earlier this year. 
Exploration
In September, following a number of years of prospective work by our 
brownfield team, we announced the launch of a new long-term 
exploration programme with the expectation of not only replacing our 
production but materially improving our reserves and resources by 
2020. We are confident that this key organic growth strategy can 
deliver further low cost growth through the potential to fill our 
existing spare plant capacity as well as increase our visible resource 
life-of-mine. Part of the programme focuses on the Pablo vein at 
Pallancata and, in 2016, we successfully increased the quality and 
quantity of resources with the discovery of the high grade Pablo Piso 
structures. T otal resources from this new vein system have now 
increased to 40 million silver equivalent ounces from 23 million a year 
ago. In addition, in order to ensure a high future conversion of our 
OUR PRIORITIES GOING FORWARD
1
Management focused on 
productivity and cost controls 
2
Significant brownfield potential 
identified – potential to deliver 
additional low cost growth 
3
Pablo already a reality, but untapped 
geological potential could be material 
4
Projects in portfolio offer optionality 
and long-term resources 
5
Commitment to CSR is a 
responsibility but also a competitive 
advantage
“Our exploration team is working on a variety of 
opportunities for securing additional low cost growth
in the areas surrounding our mines”
– Ignacio Bustamante
www.hochschildmining.com 5
Strategic report
Chief Executive’s review resources to reserves, we have made the prudent decision to exclude 
material in our deposits that has a low probability of being mined.  
This has reduced our overall operational resources by almost 15% but 
represents a more robust approach to classification.
Financial position
The proactive management of our balance sheet in order to de-risk the 
Company has been a clear aim during the construction and 
subsequent first 18 months of operation at Inmaculada from its 
commissioning. The strong cashflow from the operations has ensured 
that in 2016 we made considerable further progress in reducing our 
debt position. $127 million of short- to medium-term lines were repaid 
and we still ended the year with a healthy cash and cash equivalents 
position of $140 million. In 2017, our aim is to continue to strengthen 
the financial position in anticipation of the Company’s option to 
redeem some or all of the remaining Senior Notes from January 2018 
and thereby reduce our financing costs. It is worth adding that 
currently, we no longer have any hedging agreements in place.
Financial results
As mentioned above, our average price achieved improved in 2016, by 
5% for gold and by 6% for silver and consequently when combined 
with the 25% production increase, revenue rose strongly, by 47% in 
2016 to $688 million (2015: $469 million). The improved cost 
performance led to Adjusted EBITDA of $329 million (2015: 
$139 million), an increase of 137% versus 2015, reflecting a year of 
higher margin contribution from Inmaculada. This strong cashflow 
generation has finally offset the finance costs arising from our 2014 
bond issue and adjusted earnings per share therefore rose to $0.11 per 
share from a loss of $(0.14) per share. We ended the year with net debt 
of $187 million (2015: $351 million) which translates to a leverage 
ratio of 0.57x (2015: 2.5x), significantly below guidance for the year.
Outlook
Overall, 2017 is expected to be another record year for the Company 
with attributable production set to rise to 37 million silver equivalent 
ounces (or 500,000 gold equivalent ounces) driven by another 
17 million ounces from Inmaculada and a first contribution from our 
highly prospective new Pablo vein at Pallancata with production there 
expected to be second-half weighted. The all-in sustaining cost per 
silver equivalent ounce is forecast to be between $12.2 and $12.7 
which reflects a stable underlying unit cost and includes an increased 
investment in brownfield growth as well as a tailings dam expansion 
at Inmaculada and the initial infrastructure for the development 
of Pablo.
“Net debt ended the year at $187 million which
translates to a leverage ratio of 0.57x, significantly
below the guidance provided for the year”
– Ignacio Bustamante
Investment case
We have a number of attributes which we believe delivers 
competitive advantage throughout the cycle.
p8
Strategy
Our strategy is reviewed by our Board on an ongoing basis to ensure 
relevance to the Company’s current and future requirements.
p10
Market
Precious metals markets have been volatile in the last few years 
but in 2016 prices rose for the first time in four years.
p12
KPIs
We use our KPIs to assess performance in terms of meeting our 
strategic and operational objectives.
p14
Operations
We have once again delivered an increase in production at our 
operations combined with a further reduction in costs.
p16
Sustainability
We aim to manage our CSR programmes with the same rigour 
and focus as our operational and exploration programmes.
p29
We are well-positioned for the future
2016 has represented the consolidation of our organic growth strategy 
and it is thanks to the efforts of not only our management team but all 
our employees that we have been able to execute so efficiently. We can 
look forward to a fifth year of increased production in 2017, further 
strengthening of our balance sheet and the potential for additional 
upside from our enhanced brownfield exploration plan.
Ignacio Bustamante
Chief Executive Officer 
7 March 2017
6 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s review continued
