 We are confident of our 
enormous potential...
Operationally, 2016 was characterised by a strong first full year from 
our top-tier Inmaculada operation in Peru. There were also improved 
contributions from Arcata – its best since 2010 – and from our 
Argentinian mine, San Jose, reflecting a much more promising 
economic environment in the country.
In line with the production growth, cost reduction continued for a 
fourth straight year and together with a supportive precious metal 
price environment, the Company generated strong cashflow 
throughout the year. Consequently, the Company has been able to 
follow through decisively on our promise to reduce leverage by 
repaying $127 million of debt during the year and building up a 
healthy cash balance. We are now in an increasingly solid financial 
position to manage our remaining debt profile whilst giving 
management the flexibility to invest in further organic growth  
options and continue to return capital to shareholders.
Hochschild has always aimed to invest in mineralised districts with the 
possibility to grow over time and in this regard we are excited by the 
potential of our portfolio. The discovery and subsequent resource 
growth of our new Pablo vein district at Pallancata demonstrates our 
ability to reinvigorate existing operations, at a low cost through local 
exploration. We believe that there are significant further opportunities 
to capitalise on latent processing capacity at our plants as well as to 
extend the lives of our mines and expand their capacity. The Board is 
confident that the ambitious exploration programme announced in 
the third quarter will deliver substantial low cost resources and provide 
the Company with further growth optionality in the years to come.
Precious metal prices once again experienced periods of volatility in 
2016 although both silver and gold did rise to levels not seen since 
2013 thereby providing the Company with an unanticipated boost to 
already strong cashflow generation. However, the subsequent sharp 
decline in prices at the end of the year illustrated the ongoing 
unpredictability of our markets and consequently I am encouraged  
by the Company’s continuing emphasis on cost control and 
debt repayment.
Sustainability
Despite the progress made in 2016 as the third consecutive year 
without any fatalities, it is with huge regret that an accident at the 
Inmaculada mine early in 2017 resulted in two deaths. On behalf of 
the Board, I would like to convey our deepest condolences to the 
families of the victims involved. The accident serves as a reminder of 
the high level of risks emanating from mining operations in general.  
I would like to thank those across the Group whose efforts are focused 
on making our operations a safe place to work and to whom I pledge 
the Board’s unequivocal support in the belief that every accident 
is avoidable.
With regards to our environmental efforts, I am pleased to report that 
the Group continued to improve its environmental performance and 
maintained its corporate ISO 14001 certification. Furthermore, as part 
of our ongoing focus on aligning remuneration with our strategic 
goals, a new environmental scorecard has been adopted, performance 
against which bonus entitlements will be calculated for senior 
management over and above the usual operational and 
financial metrics.
Our relations with local communities are of the utmost importance 
and we dedicate significant resources in recognition of the social 
licence granted to us. Details on the varied programmes that the  
Group has run focusing on our core themes of education, health and 
socio-economic development can be found in our Sustainability Report 
and online.
Board
I wish to thank the employees across the business and my fellow Board 
members for their dedication and support over the year. At the Board 
level, the stabilised operating environment during the year led to the 
resumption of our Non-Executive succession plan and I was delighted 
that we were able to announce the appointment, in November, of 
Eileen Kamerick and, from the start of this year, Sanjay Sarma. Each 
brings a varied skill set to the board table and we look forward to our 
future board discussions. It leaves me to pay special thanks, on behalf 
of the Board, to Roberto Dañino and Nigel Moore who have served as 
Directors since the IPO in 2006 and will be retiring at the forthcoming 
AGM. Their contribution over the past decade has been invaluable and 
we wish them the very best for the future.
Outlook 
The Company is determined to retain emphasis on our low cost organic 
growth strategy and the ongoing repayment of debt particularly given 
the already unpredictable nature of 2017 so far. We are confident in 
the sizeable potential shown in the areas surrounding our operations 
as well as our team’s ability to bring early stage projects through the 
pipeline and combined with an embedded cost control culture, the 
prospects for further shareholder return are very strong.
Eduardo Hochschild
Chairman 
7 March 2017
Chairman’s statement
4 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report 2016
