 Chairman’s statement
OVERVIEW
FY16 represented a landmark year in the 
history of Hotel Chocolat (HC). The IPO 
in May 2016 marked the next stage of the 
development and growth of the business 
and provides the capital to accelerate our 
growth strategy whilst raising the profile 
of the business.
RESULTS
The Group achieved a pleasing result in 
FY16 with revenue of £91.1m and growth 
of 12% versus FY15. Strong control of 
costs meant that operating margins 
improved with pre-exceptional EBITDA 
margin rising from 9.7% to 13.5%.
PEOPLE
The Group continues to be led 
by a strong founder-led executive 
management team that have built a 
successful business. In April, we welcomed 
Sophie Tomkins to the Board as a Non-
executive Director. She has already made 
a valuable contribution to the Board 
and brings excellent experience to her 
role as Chair of the Audit Committee. I 
would also like to extend my thanks to 
the whole Hotel Chocolat team for their 
hard work, commitment and for a job 
well done.
DIVIDENDS 
The Group remains in a growth phase and 
is presented with many strong investment 
opportunities, each of which is assessed 
using a disciplined approach to capital 
allocation and risk. The Board intends 
to invest the IPO proceeds to support 
the business strategy, with the goal of 
accelerating the growth of the business 
and a target of improving returns. The 
Board therefore is not recommending a 
dividend for FY16 but is committed to 
adopting a progressive dividend policy in 
future as the business grows. “  Our combination of strong 
brand and vertically 
integrated business model 
is starting to deliver 
strong results.”
 ANDREW GERRIE
  I n de p e n de nt  
Non-executive Chairman
In the year we have cemented the  
foundations for future growth.
HOTEL CHOCOLAT GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 10 Originality · Authenticity · Ethics
The T asting Club
Tasting Club members taste our newest recipes every month. They score the 
chocolates and only the best make it into our retail ranges. Club members 
are strong supporters of our Engaged Ethics programme; some have also 
supported our growth by investing in chocolate bonds. 
Company overview Governance Financial statements
Strategic report
11 STRATEGIC REPORT Chairman’s statement
