 Chief Executive’s statement
In my first Chief Executive’s statement I am 
pleased to report a year of significant progress 
for the Group. Revenue grew by 12% to 
£91.1m and profit before tax increased 
by 91% to £5.6m. We further refined our 
business model and all channels achieved 
growth, whilst a focus on cost efficiency 
resulted in an improved EBITDA margin. 
I would like to thank the whole team for 
their enthusiasm and tireless commitment, 
without which these results would not have 
been possible.
SALES CHANNEL REVIEW
Our multi-channel model continues to work 
well: each channel supports the others and 
all channels are in growth. Digital growth of 
+20% was particularly strong. 
Our stores continued to perform well and 
the opening of our fifth Shop+Cafe site in 
Worcester represented an encouraging step 
as we continue to hone this new format. We 
will continue to open both pure chocolate 
shops and Shop+Cafe formats to best match 
the opportunity in each location.
In the year we opened seven new stores in 
Regent Street and Tottenham Court Road 
in London, Birmingham New Street Station, 
Glasgow Braehead, Manchester Market 
Street, Manchester Piccadilly Station and 
Sheffield Fargate.
In the year we also closed three stores that 
had reached the end of their leases and 
weren’t meeting our returns hurdles, thus 
improving the overall profitability of the 
retail estate. Since the end of the financial 
period we have opened three stores in 
Worcester, Peterborough and Chelmsford, 
and have signed leases on a further five 
including our first Designer Outlet store at 
Cheshire Oaks, all of which we expect to be 
trading before Christmas 2016. 
Our international operations remain at 
the exploratory stage and highlights have 
included a refit of our Shop+Cafe site in 
Copenhagen city centre and the opening 
of a new franchised store in Gibraltar, with 
our partner Sandpiper, who already operate 
Hotel Chocolat franchise stores in Jersey 
and Guernsey.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW
A major focus for the period was on 
improving availability to ensure customers 
can always find their favourite Hotel Chocolat 
products which helped increase sales growth 
rates across all channels. The key seasonal 
ranges have also traded strongly.
Our results continue to improve and we  
see significant opportunity for future growth.
“  The brand has continued 
to gain in strength, 
meaning we are well 
positioned for growth in 
all of our markets.”
 ANGUS THIRLWELL
  Co-founder and Chief 
Executive Officer
HOTEL CHOCOLAT GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 HOTEL CHOCOLAT  Originality · Authenticity · Ethics
Company overview Governance Financial statements
Strategic report
21 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive’s statement
From ‘bean to bar’
For our Rare & Vintage range we carefully source beans from all around the world to 
complement those we grow ourselves. Each type of bean is selected to showcase the  
variety of flavours that fine cocoa can achieve.
We ensure that the growers are accredited as sustainable, and we commit that our team  
will conduct visits to every site.
Our development team then experiments to find the best roasting temperatures and 
conching (grinding) times to bring out the delicate flavour of the different beans. This results 
in a unique range of some of the best cacao on the planet, priced at an accessible luxury level. Chief Executive’s statement continued
Further investments are planned for summer 2017  
to improve capacity and efficiency.
MANUFACTURING 
INVESTMENT
Following the end of Easter and preceding 
the build-up for the winter peak, each 
summer presents our annual ‘window’ to 
undertake infrastructure investment.
In summer 2015 we completed a £1.0m 
investment to relocate the packing of 
our finished products from our factory in 
Huntingdon to our nearby Distribution 
Centre in St Neots. This change increased 
the factory’s capacity by freeing up space, 
allowing more efficient and responsive supply 
of product and reducing the amount of miles 
travelled moving product between our sites. 
In summer 2016 we completed a £3.7m 
investment installing a mezzanine floor in the 
factory and significantly upgrading one of our 
three key production lines. This has resulted 
in an increase in factory capacity of over 20% 
as well as improved efficiency and the ability 
to conjure up more exciting recipes.
We also invested to increase our ‘bean to 
bar’ manufacturing capacity, enabling us to 
produce more of our super-premium Rare & 
Vintage product range.
Further investments are planned for summer 
2017 to improve capacity and efficiency.
 
BRAND REVIEW
As a result of our continued nurturing 
the Hotel Chocolat brand continues to 
strengthen. At the beginning of FY16 
we relaunched our key boxed chocolate 
ranges, improving the packaging and adding 
new recipes to increase choice. Over the 
Christmas gifting season, redesigned boxed 
chocolates proved a particular success. 
We won an impressive 18 awards from the 
Academy of Chocolate including for our 
new Teaolat infusion drinks, our Saint Lucian 
Buffalo Milk 65% Chocolate and our new 
‘Banana Bread’ chocolate. 
We also launched new gift sleeves which 
allow guests to quickly personalise a product 
for a gift recipient, with early signs being very 
encouraging. This is part of our strategy to 
become a leading one-stop destination for 
gifts, both digitally and in-store.
CONSUMER TRENDS
Wellness 
We see an increasing trend that consumers 
want uncompromisingly delicious and 
hedonistic chocolate that’s also made 
with responsible amounts of sugar. Hotel 
Chocolat’s 12-year track record of “more 
cocoa, less sugar” is applied to every grade 
of chocolate, from our whites, through milks 
and darks. We carry a very wide range 
of darks with cocoa percentages ranging 
from 70% all the way up to 100%. Our new 
supermilk genre means we can offer a milky 
and mellow taste, but with less sugar than 
most dark chocolates on the market. Our 
award-winning vegan darks also continue to 
see significant sales growth. 
Experiences 
Experiences are becoming increasingly 
popular as a new luxury and consumers 
are seeking to go beyond the purely 
transactional. We are well positioned to 
take advantage of this trend. Whilst a 
stay at our Boucan Hotel in Saint Lucia 
remains the pinnacle, great experiences 
are available throughout the UK. We offer 
School of Chocolate customer experiences 
nationwide, priced from £20 to £120 and 
we introduced new brunches and afternoon 
teas at our London and Leeds flagships. 
Our amazing Hot Chocolat is now available 
in more locations as we expand our new 
Shop+Cafe format. We intend to continue 
to develop the range of experiences we can 
offer, showcasing the brand specialisation 
from farm to finished product and aspire to 
turn customers into advocates. 
22 HOTEL CHOCOLAT GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts REVENUE
Physical 66%
Digital 24%
Wholesale 8%
Cocoa estate 2%
Mobile 
Living an increasingly mobile and flexible 
life is a clear trend. Plans are underway to 
make it easier to send an HC gift whilst on 
the move with our new digital capability 
coming on stream in H1 2017. This will 
deliver improved content optimised for 
smartphones and tablets.
OUTLOOK
I am confident that our plan for the coming 
year is robust. Our capital plans are based 
on proven store formats and digital channels, 
and on making greater use of existing 
production methods and technology. Our 
strategy remains on track and our continued 
innovation and focus on customer happiness 
aim to deliver increased sales, combined with 
disciplined capex and a tight control on costs 
with the goal of improving returns.
The market and wider economy may not 
be without challenges, but we still have 
significant addressable market headroom 
and benefit from having distribution and 
manufacturing directly under our control, 
which supports the resilience of our business. 
Ensuring that we maintain the strong 
relationship we enjoy with our customers 
will always be our top priority. 
2%
8%
24%
66%
Company overview
Strategic report
Governance Financial statements
23 STRATEGIC REPORT Chief Executive’s statement
