 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement  
4
Group Chairman’s Statement 
When I took on the role of Chairman less than 90 
days ago, I was acutely aware of the challenges 
facing our industry. I was conscious too of the need 
to demonstrate to all of our stakeholders that HSBC 
understands the responsibilities that accompany the 
systemic significance which continued success has 
built for HSBC in many of the markets in which we 
operate, not least those in Asia, given their historical 
significance to the Group. 145 years after we were 
founded, Hong Kong and the rest of Asia remain at 
the heart of HSBC’s strength and identity and our 
commitment to the region is unwavering.  
I fully acknowledge that our scale, the trust that 
our depositors place in us and our relevance to our 
personal and corporate clients – for their financing, 
banking, investment and risk management needs – 
all depend upon our maintaining our reputation and 
our integrity.  
I also understand how important it is for you, 
our shareholders, that HSBC builds sustainable long-
term value that is reflected through the share price 
and rebuilds, as quickly as competing regulatory 
demands allow, the dividend that was reduced during 
the financial crisis.
I firmly believe that HSBC has the people, the 
financial strength and the organisational structure 
best able to deliver all of the above and it is a 
privilege to have the opportunity to serve as Group 
Chairman as we enter a fresh chapter in our history. 
Before I go any further, I want to pay tribute to 
both Stephen Green and Michael Geoghegan, who 
stepped down at the end of last year from their roles 
as Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive 
after, respectively, 28 and 37 years service to HSBC. 
It fell to them to be at the helm as HSBC navigated 
its way through the worst financial crisis since the 
1930s. Mike led from the front in addressing the 
problems in our consumer finance subsidiary in the 
United States and in reshaping HSBC’s 
organisational structure and operational practices in 
order to better and more efficiently serve an 
increasingly interconnected world. Stephen’s 
personal reputation for integrity and probity stood 
out and distinguished HSBC during a period of 
intense disaffection with the banking industry. For 
their contribution over many years we owe them a 
deep debt of gratitude and wish them both well.  
Our performance in 2010 
The Group Chief Executive’s business review sets 
out clearly how HSBC delivered a much improved 
balance of profits in 2010. It is reassuring to see our 
Personal Financial Services businesses returning to 
profitability in aggregate and Commercial Banking 
growing significantly, largely in emerging markets. 
These achievements augmented another year of 
strong performance in Global Banking and Markets. 
Earnings per share improved strongly, rising by 
115% to reach US$0.73 per share. 
The Group’s capital position also strengthened 
with the core tier 1 ratio, the ratio most favoured by 
regulators as it comprises equity capital after 
regulatory adjustments and deductions, increasing 
from 9.4% to 10.5%, largely due to profit retention 
throughout the year. 
As a consequence of this strong capital 
generation, together with greater clarity on the 
direction of regulatory reform of capital 
requirements and an improving economic backdrop 
in the developed world – particularly in the United 
States – the Board has approved increases in both the 
final dividend payment in respect of 2010 and the 
planned quarterly dividends for 2011. The final 
dividend for 2010, payable on 5 May 2011 to 
shareholders on the register on 17 March 2011, will 
be 12 cents per ordinary share, up from 10 cents at 
the same point last year. For the remainder of 2011 
we plan to pay quarterly dividends of nine cents for 
each of the first three quarters compared with eight 
cents in respect of the equivalent quarters of 2010. 
A new leadership team 
We enter 2011 with a new leadership team, but only 
in the sense of changed roles. Everyone has worked 
together over many years and there is immense 
experience to draw on both from within HSBC and 
from earlier careers at peer organisations. Stuart 
Gulliver is leading the management team as Group 
Chief Executive. His clear objective is to deliver  5
Overview Operating & Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
sustainable long-term value for shareholders 
consistently in a manner that maintains the 
confidence of all other key stakeholders in our 
businesses including depositors, counterparties, 
long-term creditors, customers, employees, 
regulators and governments. His review on pages 7 
to 9 gives an insight into his immediate priorities. 
Everything we do is governed by the imperative 
of upholding HSBC’s corporate reputation and 
character at the highest level and adding further 
strength to our brand; we deeply regret that a number 
of weaknesses in regulatory compliance were 
highlighted in 2010 and we are resolved to remedy 
these and reinforce the high standards we demand of 
ourselves.  
For my part, I shall be focusing on engaging at 
the highest level in the regulatory reform debates 
that will, in large part, shape our future. I shall also 
lead the Board in the stewardship and review of 
performance of our financial and human resources. 
In the interest of full transparency, we have 
today published on our website the respective roles 
and responsibilities of the Group Chairman, the 
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 
and the Group Chief Executive. 
Board changes 
I have already paid tribute to the contributions of 
Stephen Green and Michael Geoghegan. Vincent 
Cheng has indicated that he will step down at the 
next AGM and on behalf of the Board I want to 
thank him for his immense contribution in many 
roles over 33 years. Vincent will retain an 
association with the Group by taking on an advisory 
role to the Group Chief Executive on regional 
matters. Laura Cha will join the Board on 1 March; 
Laura has been Deputy Chair of The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited for four 
years and brings a wealth of experience of China; 
fuller details of her background and experience are 
set out in the Directors’ Report. 
Regulatory update 
There was much progress made during 2010 on the 
regulatory reform agenda. Although there is still a 
great deal to do, the shape of capital requirements 
was broadly clarified and an implementation 
timetable stretching out to 2019 was agreed to allow 
time for the industry to adjust progressively. A 
minimum common equity tier 1 ratio of 7%, 
including a capital conservation buffer, has been 
agreed. HSBC already meets this threshold 
requirement. The Group Chief Executive’s Business 
Review addresses how these revised requirements 
will impact our targeted return on equity. 
During 2011, the debate will be dominated by 
consideration of the calibration of minimum liquidity 
standards. Although it is clear that liquidity and 
funding weaknesses were key elements contributing 
to the crisis, HSBC agrees with the industry consensus 
that the revised requirements in these areas are 
overly conservative and could lead to unnecessary 
deleveraging at a time of fragile economic recovery 
in much of the developed world. It will be a near 
impossibility for the industry to expand business 
lending at the same time as increasing the amount of 
deposits deployed in government bonds while, for 
many banks but not HSBC, reducing dependency on 
central bank liquidity support arrangements. It is to 
be hoped that the observation period, which starts 
this year and precedes the formal introduction of the 
new requirements, will inform a recalibration of 
these minimum liquidity standards.  
A second debate of importance to HSBC’s 
shareholders in 2011 will concern the designation 
of ‘Systemically Important Financial Institutions’ 
(‘SIFI’s). Consideration is being given in the 
regulatory community to mandating higher capital 
requirements, together with more intense 
supervision, for institutions classified as SIFIs. We 
agree with heightened supervision but it is not clear 
that the reduced shareholder returns that would 
follow the imposition of incremental capital would 
be compensated for by improved stability. 
Classification as a SIFI with a requirement to hold 
incremental capital would, however, probably lead 
others to favour SIFIs as counterparties, and may 
therefore have the unintended consequence of further 
concentrating the industry.  
HSBC’s position is that systemic importance 
should not be determined by size alone. It is clear, 
however, that, on almost any basis, HSBC would be 
classified as systemically important. For this reason 
we are engaging fully in the debate around the 
consequences of designation as a SIFI. In particular, 
we draw attention to the benefits of our corporate 
organisation through separate subsidiaries in 
mitigation against the imposition of incremental 
capital for SIFIs based on size alone. 
In October 2010, the UK government confirmed 
its intention to raise the sum of £2.5bn (US$3.9bn) 
through a levy on bank balance sheets, and recently 
announced it will accelerate the full impact of this 
levy to 2011. We take no issue with the right of the 
UK government to raise a levy on the banking 
industry, particularly when having had to risk 
taxpayers’ money to rescue a number of important 
UK institutions. However, as the proposed levy is to   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement / Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
6
be applied to the consolidated balance sheet, it 
applies beyond the legal boundary of the domestic 
institution to include overseas operations conducted 
through separately capitalised subsidiaries. This 
therefore constitutes an additional cost of basing a 
growing multinational banking group in the UK.  
We intend to clarify in each set of results going 
forward the impact of the levy, split between UK and 
overseas operations, and Stuart Gulliver covers this 
in more detail in his review. We regard the levy, 
which is not tax deductible, as akin to a distribution 
of profits. For this reason, we intend to add to future 
shareholder dividends that would otherwise be paid, 
any amount saved in the event that the levy is 
restructured or relieved in due course. 
The role of banks in society 
The recent crisis has caused a proper introspection 
as to the role that banks play in society and at HSBC 
we welcome this. Banking is not simply about 
money. It is about helping individuals and 
organisations within society to meet personal and 
corporate objectives by facilitating access to 
financial capital and protecting value for those who 
make capital available. Payment mechanisms, the 
provision of long-term credit, trade finance, hedging 
and other risk management products, deposit, 
investment and retirement services are but a few of 
the activities through which banking groups contribute 
to today’s financial system. Society cannot function 
without an effective financial system that delivers 
value to those it serves at an intermediation cost that 
is proportionate to the value created. Somehow, 
many participants and not just banks, lost sight of 
this basic principle in the run-up to the recent 
financial crisis and the consequences for all have, 
inevitably, been far reaching. There is no doubt that 
the scale of regulatory reform will bring many 
challenges, but it will also open new opportunities.  
At HSBC, we shall not forget what happened to 
precipitate the scale of reform now underway. Although 
the financial turmoil arising from the events of 2007-
2008 has largely moderated, in large part as a result 
of co-ordinated government action and support to the 
financial system, we enter 2011 with humility, ready 
to apply right across HSBC all of the lessons 
learned, notwithstanding that HSBC itself neither 
sought nor received support from any government. 
Society has a right to ask if banks ‘get it’. At 
HSBC, we do – and we are focused on embedding 
the necessary changes in our business model for 
long-term sustainable value creation. But we also do 
not forget that value creation depends upon HSBC 
recruiting, training and retaining the right talent in 
order to manage the risks we accept through 
intermediating customer flows; design solutions to 
address complex financial problems; build enduring 
relationships with core customers; build confidence 
in the Group’s financial strength; and create the 
strategic options that offer the next generation fresh 
opportunities to continue building sustainable value. 
In this globalised world, there is intense 
competition for the best people and, given our long 
history within and connections into the faster-
growing developing markets, our best people are 
highly marketable. It would be irresponsible to allow 
our comparative advantages to wither by ignoring 
the market forces that exist around compensation, 
even though we understand how sensitive this subject 
is. Reform in this area can only be achieved if there 
is concerted international agreement on limiting the 
quantum of pay as well as harmonising pay structures 
but there appears to be no appetite to take the 
initiative on this. Our duty to shareholders is to build 
sustainable value in the economic and competitive 
environment in which we operate and our principal 
resource for achieving this is human talent. Under 
the governance of the Board, we will continue to 
operate and apply remuneration policies and practices 
that take full recognition of best practice and are 
aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders. 
HSBC’s people 
Finally, I want to pay tribute to my 307,000 
colleagues. So many of HSBC’s people have 
exemplified commitment and endeavour again in 
2010, helping our customers and clients to meet their 
financial objectives while taking on the additional 
burden of preparing for regulatory change. This has 
been done against a backdrop of continuing broad-
based fiscal support to many economies, with public 
opinion consistently and highly critical of our 
industry. As I look forward, it is the combination of 
the capabilities of HSBC’s people, their 
determination to do the right thing for our customers 
and their deep sense of responsibility to the 
communities they serve that makes me confident that 
HSBC will play a leading role in rebuilding the trust 
that our industry has lost and, by doing so, will build 
sustainable value for you, our shareholders. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman
28 February 2011 
