 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
4 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
 
 
Throughout its history HSBC has sought to facilitate 
economic growth, as it is through such growth that 
businesses flourish and individuals fulfil the 
aspirations they have for themselves and those close 
to them. The cover of this year’s Annual Report and 
Accounts illustrates a core element of HSBC’s 
strategic direction – that is connecting markets by 
providing the financing and risk management 
products that facilitate trade and investment flows. In 
so doing, we help our customers to achieve their 
growth ambitions and generate economic returns for 
savers and investors. 
The picture also illustrates the shift in emphasis 
towards the faster-growing markets that underpins 
HSBC’s investment priorities. The port is Santos in 
Brazil, which is the largest container port in South 
America; the ship is from China, delivering heavy 
machinery. The Brazil-China trade corridor has been 
one of the fastest growing over the last decade with a 
compound annual rate of growth of around 30%. 
China is now Brazil’s largest trade partner 
representing 18% of its total trade flows, versus 4% 
in 2000.  
HSBC entered Brazil in 1997 and since then has 
built its operations to generate pre-tax profits of 
US$1.2 billion in 2011, an increase of 19% over the 
prior year. We estimate that we finance over 6% of 
Brazil’s total trade and some 9% of its trade with 
China. In 2011 we were recognised as ‘Financial 
institution of the year’ by the Brazil-China Chamber 
of Commerce for having contributed most to the 
growth and development of the Brazil-China trade 
corridor. 
The purpose of the above introduction is to 
highlight the fact that, notwithstanding the major 
uncertainties and risks concentrating minds in the 
advanced economies of Europe and the US, there are 
still attractive growth opportunities to pursue where 
our international network and strong balance sheet 
provide distinctive advantages. 
Performance in 2011 
In 2011 in our heartland of Asia, throughout the 
Middle East and in Latin America we made good 
progress in developing customer business in line 
with the risk appetite endorsed by the Board. Largely 
driven by growth in lending in these faster-growing 
regions, our Commercial Banking business delivered 
a record performance. In Europe and the US we 
concentrated on supporting our core customer base, 
targeting trade services while constraining risk 
appetite within the financial sector. We also made 
significant further progress in working down our exit 
businesses in the US. The Group Chief Executive’s 
Review expands upon the execution of our strategy 
during 2011. 
The strong progress made on strategy execution 
was all the more marked when contrasted with the 
fragile confidence that pervaded the advanced 
economies of the world. Continuing uncertainties 
arising from the Eurozone debt crisis contributed to 
credit demand remaining muted in Europe, while US 
recovery lagged expectations held earlier in the year. 
As investors crowded into the safest asset classes, 
market activity levels dropped markedly and prices 
of securities outside the favoured asset classes 
weakened. These factors markedly reduced trading 
revenues in the second half of the year.  
Against the backdrop of the economic and 
financial market conditions described above, the 
Board considered the Group’s performance in 2011 
to be satisfactory in aggregate and strong in the 
faster growing markets. Earnings per share rose by 
26% to US$0.92 and the Board approved a fourth 
interim dividend of US$0.14 per ordinary share 
taking total dividends in respect of 2011 to US$0.41 
per share, an increase of US$0.05 per share or 14%. 
The Board confirmed its intention to continue to pay 
quarterly dividends during 2012 at the rate of 
US$0.09 per ordinary share in respect of each of the 
first three quarters, in line with 2011. 
Notably, the capital strengthening required by 
regulatory reform is being successfully delivered 
while maintaining the strongest dividend paying 
record of any bank outside mainland China. 
Total dividends declared during 2011 amounted 
to US$7.3 billion and in the last four years, that is 
since the financial crisis started, they have amounted   
5 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
to US$27.2 billion, making HSBC the second largest 
dividend payer in the FTSE100 during this period.  
Addressing a matter of public interest, the cost 
to shareholders of performance-related rewards 
made within our Global Banking and Markets 
business in 2011 and during the past four years 
amounted to some US$1 billion and US$4.7 billion, 
respectively. Pre-tax profit from Global Banking and 
Markets was, in aggregate, US$30 billion in the 
same four years, and represented the largest 
contribution, at 52%, of Group pre-tax profits during 
that period.  
At the end of 2011, total shareholders’ equity 
stood at US$159 billion, up 24% from its pre-crisis 
level of US$128 billion at the end of 2007. Over the 
same period, our balance sheet grew by only 9%. 
The core tier 1 ratio at the end of 2011 stood at 
10.1%, in line with our target range. 
As foreshadowed in last year’s Statement, the 
UK government proceeded with its plan to raise £2.5 
billion through a levy on the global balance sheets of 
UK domiciled banks. The cost to HSBC was 
US$570 million of which US$340 million related to 
non-UK banking activity. The levy, which is not tax 
deductible, is the equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary 
share and, as indicated last year, would otherwise be 
available for distribution to shareholders. 
Progress on regulatory reform 
A number of important milestones were passed 
during 2011 on the regulatory reform agenda. In the 
UK the Independent Commission on Banking 
(‘ICB’) delivered its report in September and the 
Government published its response in December. In 
the US, greater clarity on the Dodd-Frank legislation 
was delivered through a multitude of notices of 
proposed new regulation and four US financial 
regulatory agencies issued proposed uniform 
regulations that would implement the Volcker Rule, 
which aims to constrain major financial institutions 
from engaging in proprietary trading and most hedge 
fund and proprietary investment activities. The Basel 
Committee, in conjunction with the Financial 
Stability Board, set out its proposals to identify and 
increase capital requirements for Global 
Systemically Important Banks and most major 
jurisdictions published their proposals around 
recovery and resolution planning for major 
institutions. Europe continued to embed the Basel III 
proposals within a new draft Capital Requirements 
Directive (‘CRD IV’), the European Banking 
Authority formally came into existence as the hub of 
financial regulatory bodies in Europe and, in the UK, 
HM Treasury published its proposals for a new 
approach to financial regulation and the replacement 
of the FSA with a new supervisory structure, 
directed by the Bank of England.  
Many topics remain subject to further debate 
including cross-border resolution protocols, the 
governance and operation of central counterparties, 
the prospective role of clearing systems and 
exchanges, the calibration of the proposed new 
liquidity framework, the definition and operation 
of proposed proprietary trading restrictions, the 
possible harmonisation and peer review of the 
calculation of the risk weights that drive capital 
requirements, a re-assessment of the risk free 
treatment of sovereign debt and some 22 follow-on 
workstreams are ongoing in the wake of the UK 
Government’s response to the ICB Report.  
It is clear from the above that the industry will 
continue to bear a heavy burden of both time 
commitment and cost as it works with policy makers 
to finalise the regulatory reforms, including 
addressing the many inconsistencies within and 
extra-territorial dimensions of national rule-making. 
We are committed to all necessary constructive 
dialogue and support to speed the finalisation of 
these remaining issues. Our input will stress that 
it is critical that the reforms deliver a sustainable 
business model that can attract external economic 
capital. This is essential for the financial system to 
be able to contribute as fully as it should to the 
economic growth agenda which is being mandated 
by political leaders globally. 
Board changes 
We bid farewell at the upcoming AGM to two 
directors who have given huge service to HSBC over 
many years and who will not stand for re-election.  
Sir Brian Williamson has served on the Board 
of HSBC Holdings since 2002 and brought great 
insight and wisdom to the Board from a 
distinguished career in financial services, most 
notably in the areas of money and bond markets, 
clearing, exchanges and electronic trading platforms 
where he was a pioneer in establishing The London 
International Financial Futures and Options 
Exchange.  
Gwyn Morgan has served on the Board of 
HSBC Holdings since 2006 and before that on the 
Board of HSBC Canada for some nine years. His 
vast experience of leading large international 
companies in the engineering and energy sectors 
brought a balanced industrialist’s perspective to 
Board discussions and debate.   HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement / Group 
 
 
6 
We shall miss them both and thank them 
sincerely for their contributions over many years. 
We are delighted to welcome two new faces to 
the Board. Joachim Faber and John Lipsky will join 
the Board on 1 March.  
Joachim Faber stepped down from the 
Management Board of Allianz at the end of 2011 
where he served latterly as CEO of Allianz Global 
Investors one of the top five investment managers 
globally. He brings a wealth of experience from the 
perspective of the investor as well as in depth 
knowledge of banking, insurance, finance and capital 
markets from previous roles in a long and 
distinguished career. 
John Lipsky is one of the world’s best known 
and respected economists who most recently served 
as First Deputy Managing Director at the IMF from 
which he retired in November 2011. Over the last 
five years John has been one of the key links 
between macroeconomic policymakers and the 
financial community and brings to the Board an 
exceptional depth of knowledge and understanding 
of the macroeconomic and geopolitical issues that 
will shape the future of the global economy. 
Fuller details of their background and 
experience are set out in the Directors’ Report. 
Brand and reputation 
At HSBC we continue to think long-term as we build 
business platforms and relationships that will create 
options for value creation in generations to come. 
Tactically there are necessary difficult decisions 
to take in today’s subdued economic environment 
but these are always weighed against what is right 
for the long-term health of the business. Similarly 
when things go wrong, as they will from time to 
time, we judge ourselves, inter alia, against how we 
respond and how quickly we learn from the 
experience. Nothing is more important than our 
reputation.  
It was a moment of great pride within the 
organisation when we were judged to be the most 
valuable banking brand in the world in the recent 
Brand Finance
® 
Banking 500 2012 report. This is the 
4th time HSBC has headed the list in the last five 
years. This recognition is a testament to the work of 
all of my colleagues in building value for customers 
that translates to shareholder value.  
At the same time, however, we reflect that in 
2011 we continued to deal with legacy regulatory, 
legal and reputational issues which remind us that 
our good work can be destroyed by lapses of 
judgement or control. The settlement of claims 
around the historical selling of Payment Protection 
Insurance in the UK, the fine and compensation 
arising from the now closed NHFA business and 
ongoing regulatory and legal investigations in the 
US across a number of areas are all matters from 
which we need to learn to ensure they do not recur. 
The programme of values training which the Group 
Chief Executive is leading for all employees is but 
one measure to this end. We are truly sorry to all 
those who were adversely affected by our failings 
and to our shareholders for the reputational damage 
incurred. 
Looking ahead 
It is just over a year now since Stuart Gulliver and I 
took on our respective roles. During that time, the 
leadership team around Stuart has grown in stature 
and cohesion and is I believe among the best in our 
industry. That team is supported strongly by talented 
colleagues whose engagement and commitment to 
the strategic priorities laid out before them is evident 
and enthusiastic. On behalf of the Board I want to 
take this opportunity to thank them for their support 
and dedication. The uncertain economic and 
geopolitical backdrop will continue to raise 
challenges throughout 2012 and beyond. I am, 
however, confident that HSBC has the people, the 
financial strength and the right strategic focus and 
values to do well for those who place their trust in 
us, thereby meeting their expectations of us and 
contributing to the fulfilment of their aspirations and 
ambitions. That is what we exist to do. 
 
 
D J Flint, Group Chairman 
27 February 2012 
 
