  
 
7 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Group Chief Executive’s  
Business Review 
 
2011 was a year of change for HSBC as we 
articulated a clear strategy to become the world’s 
leading international bank. We made significant 
progress in executing this strategy to reshape the 
Group and improve returns. First, we conducted a 
Group-wide portfolio review to improve our capital 
deployment and have now announced the disposal or 
closure of 16 non-strategic businesses during the 
year, and a further 3 in 2012. Second, we took action 
to improve our cost efficiency, achieving sustainable 
cost saving of US$0.9bn. Third, and most 
importantly, we continued to position the business 
for growth, increasing revenues in each of the 
world’s faster-growing regions, particularly in 
mainland China, India, Malaysia, Brazil and 
Argentina. Commercial Banking achieved record 
revenue and profits, helped by loan growth as well as 
growth in cross-selling from Global Banking and 
Markets. In Wealth Management we made modest 
progress towards our target of US$4bn of 
incremental revenue over the medium term. 
Executing our strategy is the primary lever to 
improve the Group’s performance. A substantial 
amount has been achieved during 2011 but this will 
be a long journey with significant headwinds, so we 
are increasing the intensity of execution in 2012. 
Group performance headlines 
• HSBC’s financial performance was resilient. 
• Reported profit before tax was US$21.9bn, up 
US$2.8bn on 2010, including US$3.9bn of 
favourable fair value movements on our own 
debt attributable to credit spreads, compared 
with a negative movement of US$63m in 2010. 
• Underlying profit before tax was US$17.7bn, 
down US$1.2bn on 2010 due to higher costs 
which were partly offset by a significant 
improvement in loan impairment charges and 
other credit risk provisions. 
• We recorded a strong performance in each of 
the faster-growing regions. Underlying revenues 
grew in Rest of Asia-Pacific by 12%, in Hong 
Kong by 6% and in Latin America by 13%. The 
strong performance in these regions also led to 
record revenues in Commercial Banking. 
• We achieved strong revenue growth in key 
markets including mainland China, India, 
Malaysia, Brazil and Argentina, driving 
increases in profit before tax. 
• On an underlying basis, total revenues were 
broadly in line with 2010, despite the turmoil in 
the eurozone and its adverse effect on Credit and 
Rates revenue, combined with lower income in 
Balance Sheet Management and the continued 
reduction of our consumer finance portfolios in 
the US. 
• As the process of internationalising the renminbi 
continued, we strengthened our leadership 
position with a bond clearing licence in 
mainland China and as the market leader in the 
offshore ‘Dim Sum’ bond market. In addition, 
Commercial Banking and Global Banking and 
Markets successfully completed our first global 
US dollar-renminbi cross-currency swap and we 
extended our renminbi capability to over 50 
markets, across all continents.  
• Despite the eurozone sovereign debt concerns 
which dominated European market sentiment 
and depressed revenues in Global Banking and 
Markets, revenues grew strongly in over half of 
our business lines in Global Banking and 
Markets, including Equities and Foreign 
Exchange, and in Global Banking. This in part 
reflected the collaboration with Commercial 
Banking which has delivered more than 
US$500m in incremental revenues.  
• In Wealth Management we made modest 
progress towards our medium-term target of 
US$4bn incremental revenue, with revenue 
growth of some US$300m. Notably, we 
generated strong sales of insurance products in 
the Hong Kong, Latin America and Rest of 
Asia-Pacific, while revenue from distribution of 
investment products to our clients and Global 
Asset Management was broadly unchanged, 
reflecting difficult market conditions, 
particularly in the second half of the year.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
 
 
 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
 
 
8 
• Costs rose by 10%, reflecting wage inflation 
in key markets and higher average full-time 
equivalent employee numbers for the year 
(although numbers have fallen since the first 
quarter), as well as an increase in significant 
items. These included restructuring costs 
(including the impairment of certain intangible 
assets) of US$1.1bn, UK customer redress 
programmes of US$898m and a bank levy 
introduced by the UK Government of 
US$570m, partly offset by a UK pension credit 
of US$587m. The rise in costs was partially 
offset by US$0.9bn in sustainable cost savings 
achieved so far in executing our strategy. 
• As a result of these factors, the cost efficiency 
ratio worsened from 55.2% to 57.5% on a 
reported basis, and from 55.6% to 61.0% on an 
underlying basis.  
• Our results continue to be adversely affected by 
the losses in the US consumer finance business, 
which, on an underlying basis, were US$2.4bn 
and US$2.2bn in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
We have agreed the sale of the profitable US 
Card and Retail Services portfolio with the 
remainder of the loss-making US consumer 
finance business being run down. 
• Return on average ordinary shareholders’ equity 
was 10.9%, up from 9.5% in 2010, reflecting the 
favourable movement on the fair value of our 
own debt. 
• The Group’s pre-tax return on risk-weighted 
assets (‘RoRWA’) for 2011 was 1.9%, or 1.5% 
on an underlying basis. Adjusting for negative 
returns on US consumer finance business and 
legacy credit in Global Banking and Markets, 
the remainder of the Group achieved a RoRWA 
of 2.2% in 2011 and 2.3% in 2010. 
• Dividends declared in respect of 2011 totalled 
US$7.3bn, or US$0.41 per ordinary share, 
an increase of 14%, with a fourth interim 
dividend for 2011 of US$0.14 per ordinary 
share. 
• The core tier 1 ratio was 10.1% at 31 December 
2011, down from 10.5% at 31 December 2010, 
reflecting an increase in risk-weighted assets 
(‘RWA’s) due to the introduction of Basel 2.5 in 
Global Banking and Markets and growth in 
lending balances including those classified as 
held for sale. The growth in RWAs was notably 
in Commercial Banking, which included an 
increase in the RWAs of our mainland China 
associates. 
• Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 
increased by 27% to US$16.2bn, of which 
US$7.3bn was declared in dividends in respect 
of the year. This compared with US$3.4bn of 
variable pay awarded (net of tax) to our 
employees for 2011. 
Progress on strategy 
There are two major trends which are key to HSBC’s 
future: the continuing growth of international trade 
and capital flows; and wealth creation, particularly in 
faster-growing markets. In May, we defined a new 
strategy for the Group to capitalise on these trends 
and connect customers to opportunities by building 
on our distinctive presence in the network of markets 
which generate the major trade and capital flows, 
capturing wealth creation in target markets and 
focusing on retail banking only where we can 
achieve profitable scale. 
In a difficult operating environment this strategy 
is key to improving our performance and we remain 
focused on delivering our targets of a return on 
average shareholders’ equity of 12-15% and a cost 
efficiency ratio of 48-52% by the end of 2013. We 
are executing the strategy by deploying capital more 
effectively, implementing measures to improve our 
cost efficiency and positioning the business for 
growth. We have made significant progress in all of 
these three areas. 
First, to ensure effective deployment of capital, 
we undertook a Group-wide review of our business, 
testing each part of the portfolio against our five 
filters framework. This looks at the strategic 
relevance of each country, and each business in each 
country, assessing their connectivity, economic 
development, profitability, cost efficiency and 
liquidity. As a result, we announced 16 disposals or 
closures in 2011 and a further 3 in 2012, including 
two large transactions in the US, the disposal of 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management operations 
in Russia, Chile and Thailand and the exit of 
operations in Poland and Georgia. When completed, 
these disposals and closures should represent a 
reduction of around US$50bn of risk-weighted assets 
and the transfer to the acquirers of approximately 
12,000 full-time equivalent employees. We are 
continuing this process in 2012 and have identified a 
number of further transactions. 
Second, to improve cost efficiency we achieved 
US$0.9bn of sustainable savings. Our programmes 
to implement consistent business models and 
restructure global businesses and global functions 
progressed well. We are creating a leaner Group, 
removing layers of management to give staff greater   
 
9 
Overview  Operating & Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
responsibility, improve decision making and reduce 
bureaucracy. We have identified a strong pipeline of 
further sustainable cost savings which we believe 
will deliver at the upper end of our target of US$2.5-
3.5bn of sustainable savings by 2013.  
Third, we continued to position the business for 
growth, as outlined in the performance headlines. 
We are increasing the intensity of strategy 
execution in 2012 and will provide a further update 
at our forthcoming Investor Strategy Day.  
Our purpose and values 
HSBC is one of the world’s largest banking 
and financial services organisations. We serve 
around 89 million customers and our network 
covers 85 countries and territories. With around 
7,200 offices in both established and faster-growing 
markets, we aim to be where the growth is, 
connecting customers to opportunities, enabling 
businesses to thrive and economies to prosper, and 
ultimately helping people to realise their ambitions. 
We are putting a new emphasis on values at 
HSBC, so that our employees are empowered to do 
the right thing and to act with courageous integrity. 
We recognise that we have not always got this right 
in the past. The inappropriate advice given to 
customers of NHFA Limited was completely 
unacceptable. We are profoundly sorry about what 
happened and are committed to standing fully behind 
our customers. This case has reinforced our 
determination to address legacy issues in HSBC. 
Over the past year we have made our values 
more explicit to ensure we meet the expectations of 
society, customers, regulators and investors. Those 
values are that we are dependable, open to different 
ideas and cultures and connected to customers, 
communities, regulators and each other. We are 
ensuring that everyone who works for HSBC lives 
by these values and have made them a key part of 
every individual’s annual performance review. By  
setting the highest standards of behaviour our aim is 
that all of our employees and customers can be 
proud of our business. 
Outlook 
In 2012, notwithstanding the macroeconomic, 
regulatory and political uncertainties which we 
believe will persist, we expect continued strong 
growth in the dynamic markets of Asia, Latin 
America and the Middle East, although at a more 
moderate pace than in 2011, and that mainland 
China will achieve a soft landing. We believe that 
trade and capital flows between emerging areas of 
the world will also continue to grow, and could 
increase tenfold in the next 40 years. 
As these results demonstrate, HSBC is well-
positioned in the faster-growing markets and across 
international trade flows to benefit from these 
engines of global growth. 
In 2011 we generated a return on average 
ordinary shareholders’ equity of 10.9% compared 
with 9.5% in 2010. The strength of our position 
gives us confidence that by the end of 2012 we will 
have developed a clear trajectory towards meeting 
our target of 12-15% by the end of 2013. 
Finally, I am pleased to report we had good 
results in January. 
 
 
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive 
27 February 2012 
 
