 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
8
Group Chief Executive’s  
Business Review 
HSBC made significant progress in 2012 despite a 
challenging operating environment characterised by 
low economic growth and a changing regulatory 
landscape. We continued to pursue the strategy 
outlined in May 2011, announcing the sale or closure 
of 26 businesses or non-core investments, surpassing 
our sustainable savings target and recording 
underlying revenue growth in the majority of our 
faster-growing regions. We also reached agreement 
with the US authorities and the FSA in relation to 
past inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering and sanction laws. Although reported 
pre-tax profit fell by 6% to US$20.6bn in 2012, 
underlying profit, which includes the impact of fines 
and penalties and UK customer redress provisions 
totalling US$4.3bn, grew by 18%. This was 
primarily due to revenue growth, notably in Global 
Banking and Markets and Commercial Banking, and 
lower loan impairment charges in North America. 
We regard this as a good performance. 
Our strategy is founded on a clear sense of 
purpose – to be where the growth is, connecting 
customers to opportunities and enabling businesses 
to thrive, economies to prosper and individuals to 
realise their ambitions. This has given us clear 
parameters around the way that we behave and 
conduct business and where and how we compete. 
Since 2011, we have created a consistent global 
structure with strong governance, consisting of four 
global businesses and 11 global functions. In 2012, 
we continued to execute our strategic priorities to 
grow, restructure and simplify HSBC.  
We grew our business in 2012, achieving 
underlying revenue growth in most of our priority 
markets. The growth in these markets was a factor 
in generating a record reported profit before tax in 
Commercial Banking as we maintained our position 
as the world’s largest global trade finance bank, as 
reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction 
Banking Survey 2012. The collaboration between 
Commercial Banking and Global Banking and 
Markets delivered incremental gross revenues of 
over US$0.1bn in 2012. Wealth Management 
achieved more than US$0.5bn of additional 
revenues, although further progress is required to 
achieve our strategic goals.  
The restructuring of the US business progressed 
in 2012 as we continued to run off the Consumer and 
Mortgage Lending portfolio, resulting in a US$14bn 
reduction in the value of average risk-weighted 
assets and a reduced loss before tax of US$3.1bn, 
reflecting improved loan impairment charges. 
Following our agreement with the US authorities and 
the FSA in December 2012, we are adopting global 
standards as part of our effort to raise our practices 
to an industry-leading level. This is part of our 
wholehearted commitment to protect the integrity of 
the organisation and the financial system, and to do 
our part to fight financial crime. 
We further simplified the Group structure in 
2012, bringing the total number of announced 
disposals and closures of non-strategic businesses 
or non-core investments to 47 since the beginning 
of 2011, including 4 in 2013.
During 2012, we completed the disposal of the 
Card and Retail Services business and the upstate 
New York branches in the United States, and the 
sale or closure of our retail businesses in Thailand, 
Honduras, El Salvador and Costa Rica, as well as 
the full service retail brokerage businesses in 
Canada. Additionally we announced the sale of our 
operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and 
Paraguay.  
Following completion of all the announced 
transactions we will have completed the refocus 
of our Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
(‘RBWM’) presence to our 20 home and priority 
markets, which represented 98% of the RBWM, 
excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio, 
profit before tax in 2012, plus a limited number 
of important network and smaller markets. 
Notably, on top of the above, we reached 
agreement in December 2012 to sell our stake in 
Ping An for an aggregate cash consideration, the 
equivalent of US$9.4bn. This transaction completed 
in two tranches, in December 2012 and February 
2013, generating a profit of US$3.0bn. In 2012 
our share of Ping An’s earnings was US$0.8bn.  9
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We also made progress in eliminating 
unnecessary organisational layers and streamlining 
various processes, achieving an additional US$2.0bn 
in sustainable cost savings. This takes our total 
annualised savings to US$3.6bn, surpassing our 
cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn of 
sustainable savings since 2011. Taken together, these 
changes have made HSBC much easier to manage 
and control. 
Although we made some good progress in 2012, 
the cost efficiency ratio at 62.8% and ROE at 8.4% 
were outside our target ranges. These were both 
affected by UK customer redress provisions, as well 
as payments we were required to make as part of the 
settlement of the investigations noted above. 
Implementing our strategy can add significant 
value to HSBC. We are on the right track and remain 
fully committed to achieving our ambition of being 
the world’s leading international bank.  
We are investing to build this distinctive 
international competitive position. 
In Retail Banking and Wealth Management, 
we accelerated the transformation of the Wealth 
Management business in HSBC with infrastructure 
investment to improve customer experience and so 
drive growth. Technology solutions improved the 
customer offering in foreign exchange services and 
we introduced enhanced risk profiling and strategic 
financial planning tools. 
In Commercial Banking we maintained our 
investment in the faster-growing regions in support 
of the strong network that helps connect customers 
with both developed and developing markets as they 
expand internationally. A great deal of attention is 
being devoted to the increasing internationalisation 
of the renminbi. During 2012, we were the first bank 
to settle cross-border renminbi trade across six 
continents with capabilities in over 50 countries, 
offering a competitive advantage to our customers as 
the renminbi positions to be a major global trade and 
investment currency. We have expanded our global 
network of dedicated China desks to cover our top 
markets, representing about half of the world’s GDP. 
These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts who 
support mainland Chinese businesses to identify new 
opportunities to expand overseas. 
In Global Banking and Markets, we invested 
in selective recruitment to support key strategic 
markets. We continued the successful build-out of 
our equities and e-FX platforms to broaden our 
product offerings.  In Hong Kong we led the market 
in Hong Kong dollar bond issuance and were the 
leading bookrunner for high yield bonds in Asia, 
excluding Japan. We now also rank in the top five of 
equities brokers in Hong Kong. We reinforced our 
leading position in the renminbi market in 2012, 
supporting a number of significant client transactions 
and, as an entity, issuing the first international 
renminbi bond outside Chinese sovereign territory. 
Reflecting our capabilities in Latin America, the 
Middle East and Asia-Pacific, HSBC was recognised 
as the ‘Best Global Emerging Markets Debt House’ 
at the 2012 Euromoney Awards for Excellence and 
was also recognised as ‘RMB House of the Year’ at 
the 2012 Asia Risk Awards. 
I would like to thank all of our employees for 
their dedication and endurance throughout a difficult 
year for the bank. They have shown a real sense of 
passion, pride and duty in the face of critical and 
often deeply embarrassing media headlines and I 
too am very grateful for their efforts.  
Group performance headlines 
• Reported profit before tax was US$20.6bn, 
US$1.2bn lower than in 2011, including 
US$5.2bn of adverse movements in the fair 
value of our own debt attributable to credit 
spreads compared with favourable movements 
of US$3.9bn in 2011. This variance of 
US$9.1bn was partially offset by an increase of 
US$7.5bn in respect of gains from the disposal 
of businesses, notably from the sale of the US 
Card and Retail Services business and the 
agreement to sell our stake in Ping An. 
• Underlying profit before tax was US$16.4bn, up 
US$2.5bn, mainly due to higher revenues and 
lower loan impairment charges and other credit 
risk provisions. These factors were partially 
offset by an increase in operating expenses, 
primarily reflecting the settlement of the 
investigations into past inadequate compliance 
with anti-money laundering and sanction laws 
and increased provisions for UK customer 
redress programmes. 
• Underlying revenues rose by 7%, led by Global 
Banking and Markets where the majority of our 
businesses grew, notably Credit and Rates in 
Europe, as spreads tightened and investor 
sentiment improved following stimuli by central 
banks globally. Commercial Banking also 
recorded revenue growth as customer loans and 
advances increased in all regions, with over half 
of this growth coming from our faster-growing 
regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and 
Latin America, driven by higher trade-related 
lending. Customer deposits also rose as we 
continued to attract deposits through Payments  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
10
and Cash Management products. In addition, 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
experienced revenue growth across all faster-
growing regions, in particular Hong Kong and 
Latin America. These factors were partially 
offset by lower revenue in Global Private 
Banking, as we focused on repositioning our 
business model and target client base. 
• We achieved growth in reported loans and 
advances to customers of more than US$57bn 
during the year, notably in residential mortgages 
and term and trade-related lending. Customer 
deposits increased by over US$86bn, allowing 
us to maintain a strong ratio of customer 
advances to customer accounts of 74.4%. 
• Underlying costs were US$4.3bn higher than in 
2011 including payments of US$1.9bn made as 
part of the settlement of the investigations into 
past inadequate compliance with anti-money 
laundering and sanctions laws, additional 
provisions in respect of UK customer redress 
programmes of US$1.4bn, and a credit in 2011 
of US$0.6bn relating to defined benefit pension 
obligations in the UK which did not recur. 
Operating expenses also increased due to 
inflationary pressures, for example, on wages 
and salaries, in certain of our Latin American 
and Asian markets. Other increases arose from 
investment in strategic initiatives including 
certain business expansion projects, enhanced 
processes and technology capabilities, and 
increased investment in regulatory and 
compliance infrastructure primarily in the US. 
• The reported cost efficiency ratio deteriorated 
from 57.5% to 62.8% and from 63.4% to 66.0% 
on an underlying basis, as a result of higher 
notable cost items, as described above. 
• Return on equity was 8.4%, down from 
10.9% in 2011, primarily reflecting the adverse 
movement in fair value of own debt attributable 
to movements in credit spreads, a higher tax 
charge and higher average shareholders’ equity. 
Similarly, the Group’s pre-tax return on average 
risk-weighted assets (‘RoRWA’) for 2012 was 
1.8% or 1.5% on an underlying basis. Adjusting 
for the negative returns on US consumer finance 
business and legacy credit in Global Banking 
and Markets, the remainder of the Group 
achieved a RoRWA of 1.9% in 2012 and 2.1% 
in 2011. 
• The core tier 1 ratio increased during the year 
from 10.1% at the end of 2011 to 12.3%. This  
increase was driven by capital generation and a 
reduction in risk-weighted assets following 
business disposals. 
• The Basel III capital rules began their staged 
6-10 year implementation in some parts of the 
world in January 2013. Nevertheless, the FSA 
has set our 2013 capital target calculation on 
a Basel III end point basis. This effectively 
accelerates our implementation of Basel III 
by several years relative to European regulations 
and other global banks. Consistent with this, we 
now operate to an internal capital target set on a 
Basel III end point basis of 9.5%-10.5%. 
• Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders was 
US$13.5bn, of which US$8.3bn was declared in 
dividends in respect of the year. This compared 
with US$2.9bn of variable pay awarded (net of 
tax) to our employees for 2012. 
• Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect 
of 2012 were US$0.45, an increase of 10% 
compared with 2011, with a fourth interim 
dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share.  
Global standards 
As a global organisation which trades on its 
international connectivity, we recognise that we 
have a responsibility to play a part in protecting 
the integrity of the financial system. In order to 
do this effectively, in April 2012 we committed to 
implementing industry-leading controls to increase 
our ability to combat financial crime. 
The highest compliance standards are being 
adopted and enforced across HSBC and our 
Compliance function has already been strengthened 
considerably. More than 3,500 people are now 
employed globally to work on compliance and the 
cost of the Compliance function has approximately 
doubled since 2010 to more than US$500m. We 
have created and recruited externally for two new 
Compliance leadership roles – Global Head of 
Regulatory Compliance and Head of 
Group Financial Crime Compliance – and appointed 
a number of senior staff with extensive experience of 
handling relevant international legal and financial 
issues. A review of ‘Know Your Customer’ files is 
under way across the entire Group and an enhanced 
global sanctions policy has been devised to ensure 
that we do not do business with key illicit actors 
anywhere, in any currency. In addition, we have 
moved to protect HSBC from the risks inherent in 
bearer shares by curtailing the ability of clients using 
bearer share companies to open accounts or transact 
with HSBC. 11
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
We have also introduced a new filter, against 
which all existing and prospective clients and 
businesses are screened. This sixth filter focuses 
on financial crime risk. It means that where we 
cannot practically or economically apply the global 
standards to which we are committed we will stop 
writing business altogether or significantly restrict 
our activities. This policy is consistent with our 
commitments to adopt global standards, to simplify 
our business and operations, and to de-risk our 
business activities. 
Implementing these standards will be a critical 
component of our work in 2013. 
Outlook 
Whilst the operating environment for financial 
institutions remains difficult, our core business will 
continue to reap the benefit of recovering economic 
growth in mainland China and its positive impact 
on other faster-growing regions. We expect the 
developing economies, led by mainland China, to 
continue to grow briskly at 5.4%, while developed 
economies should see more gradual growth of 1.0%. 
We forecast growth of 8.6% in mainland China 
in 2013. 
The US economy should continue its gradual 
recovery, with continuing quantitative easing 
measures supporting a recovery in the housing 
market, although the recovery is still not strong 
enough to support a sustained reduction in  
unemployment. We expect higher growth in Latin 
America in 2013, due in part to a modest recovery 
in Brazil. The biggest risk to the world economy 
remains an uncharted shock from Europe and an 
exacerbation of the sovereign debt crisis. We remain 
cautious on the outlook for Europe due to weak 
demand, slow growth, and political and regulatory 
uncertainty. 
Finally, I am pleased to report that the business 
had a good start to the year. Our results in 2013 
will include a dilution gain of US$1.2bn on our 
investment in Industrial Bank, following its issue of 
additional share capital to third parties on 7 January. 
There was also a US$0.6bn net gain on the 
completion of the sale of our shares in Ping An, 
which offsets the adverse fair value movement on 
the forward contract included within our 2012 
results. On 19 February 2013 we announced the 
sale of our operations in Panama for US$2.1bn.  
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive
4 March 2013 
