 7
Overview Operating & Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
Group Chief Executive’s  
Business Review 
Underlying financial performance continued to 
improve in 2010 and shareholders continued to 
benefit from HSBC’s universal banking model. All 
regions and customer groups were profitable, as 
Personal Financial Services and North America 
returned to profit. Commercial Banking made an 
increased contribution to underlying earnings and 
Global Banking and Markets also remained strongly 
profitable, albeit behind 2009’s record performance, 
reflecting a well-balanced and diversified business.  
Credit experience continued to improve, as a 
result of a stronger global economy and our actions 
to reduce balance sheet risk. As a globally-connected 
bank with a growing presence across the world’s 
faster-growing regions, HSBC also benefitted from 
higher trade volumes and strong momentum in 
emerging economies, especially in Asia. Asia 
contributed the largest proportion to underlying 
pre-tax profits, while the contributions made by 
Latin America and the Middle East also increased. 
Together with our conservative management of the 
balance sheet, this improved performance allowed us 
to concentrate on serving our customers and to 
further strengthen our capital position.
Group performance headlines 
• Profit before tax
1
 improved year on year. On a 
reported basis, profits increased by nearly 
US$12bn from US$7.1bn to US$19bn. On an 
underlying basis, profits increased by 36%, or 
almost US$5bn, from US$13.5bn to US$18.4bn. 
1 All references to profits are profits before tax unless 
otherwise stated.
• In a period of sustained low interest rates, 
revenues remained constrained, reflecting four 
principal factors: reducing loan balances in our 
US business; lower trading income in Global 
Banking and Markets resulting from lower 
client activity; adverse fair value movements on 
non-qualifying hedges; and a reduced 
contribution from Balance Sheet Management 
in line with earlier guidance. 
• Strong asset growth in Commercial Banking, 
particularly in Asia, higher trade-related 
revenues generally, and expansion of our wealth 
management business, again most notably in 
Asia, partially offset these revenue pressures.  
• Loan impairment charges reduced by almost 
half to US$14.0bn. All regions and customer 
groups improved. The US experienced the 
greatest improvement, largely in the cards and 
consumer finance portfolios. Loan impairment 
charges also declined significantly in Latin 
America and the Middle East. 
• In Global Banking and Markets, loan 
impairment charges fell significantly, notably in 
Europe as economic conditions improved. 
Credit risk provisions reduced by US$1bn to 
US$0.4bn in the available-for-sale asset-backed-
securities portfolios due to a slowing in the rate 
of anticipated losses on underlying assets, in 
line with previous guidance. The associated 
available for sale reserve declined to US$6.4bn 
from US$12.2bn. 
• The cost efficiency ratio rose to 55.2%, which is 
above our target range and unacceptable to me. 
The causes were constrained revenues and, in 
part, investment in strategic growth initiatives 
across the business together with higher staff 
costs. It additionally reflected one-off payroll 
taxes of US$0.3bn paid in 2010 in respect of the 
previous year and a pension accounting credit 
of US$0.5bn in 2009 and US$0.1bn in 2010. 
However, it is also clear that we need to re-
engineer the business to remove inefficiencies. 
• Return on average total shareholders’ equity 
rose from 5.1% to 9.5%, reflecting increased 
profit generation during the year. 
• HSBC continued to grow its capital base and 
strengthen its capital ratios further. The core 
tier 1 ratio increased from 9.4% to 10.5%, as 
a result of capital generation and lower risk 
weighted assets.  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
8
• Total loans and advances to customers increased 
by 7% to US$958bn while deposits increased by 
6% to US$1.2 trillion. 
Impact of the evolving regulatory 
environment on the business 
Much of the detail around the potential impact 
of change for banks remains uncertain. However, 
analysis of what we know confirms that our ability 
to generate capital and manage our risk-weighted 
assets positions HSBC strongly – and competitively 
– within the industry as the pace of change 
intensifies.
HSBC fully supports the rationale of the 
Basel III proposals which require banks to hold more 
capital. This is absolutely core to ensuring that 
governments and taxpayers are better protected in 
future than they have been in the past.
Certain aspects of the Basel III rules remain 
uncertain as to interpretation and application by 
national regulators. Notably, this includes any capital 
requirements which may be imposed on the Group 
over the implementation period in respect of the 
countercyclical capital buffer and any additional 
regulatory requirements for SIFIs. However, we 
believe that ultimately the level for the common 
equity tier 1 ratio of the Group may lie in the range 
9.5 to 10.5%. This exceeds the minimum 
requirement for common equity tier 1 capital plus 
the capital conservation buffer.  
We have estimated the pro forma common 
equity tier 1 ratio of the Group based on our 
interpretation of the new Basel III rules as they will 
apply from 1 January 2019, based on the position of 
the Group at year-end 2010. The rules will be phased 
in from 2013 with a gradual impact and we have 
estimated that their full application, on a proforma 
basis, would result in a common equity tier 1 ratio 
which is lower than the Basel II core tier 1 ratio by 
some 250–300 basis points. The changes relate 
to increased capital deductions, new regulatory 
adjustments and increases in risk-weighted assets. 
However, as the changes will progressively take 
effect over six years leading up to 2019 and as 
HSBC has a strong track record of capital generation 
and actively manages its risk-weighted assets, we 
are confident in our ability to mitigate the effect of 
the new rules before they come into force. 
Last year, HSBC committed to reviewing its 
target shareholder return on equity once the effects 
of new regulation became clearer. Now that we have 
better visibility on the impact of increased capital 
requirements, we believe that higher costs of the 
evolving regulatory framework will, all other things 
being equal, depress returns for shareholders of 
banks. We will therefore target a return on average 
shareholders’ equity of 12-15% in the future.  
As Group Chief Executive, it is right that, in 
managing the business and developing Group 
strategy, my principal office should be in Hong 
Kong – a global financial hub of growing importance 
at the centre of HSBC’s strategically most important 
region. However, the company is headquartered in 
London and we hope to remain there. London’s pre-
eminence as an international financial services centre 
is widely recognised and well-deserved and reflects 
successful government policy over decades to build 
that position. It is therefore important to us that the 
UK’s competitive position is protected and 
sustained. Appropriate supervision is an important 
part of the larger equation. Policymakers should 
continue to legislate and regulate, but they must not 
destroy London’s competitive position in the 
process.
As the Group Chairman has outlined, new 
legislation is expected to be enacted in the UK, 
effective from the start of 2011, one curious 
consequence of which is an explicit incremental cost 
of being headquartered in the UK for any global 
bank. Had this been applied for 2010, this annual 
charge would have amounted to approximately 
US$0.6bn in HSBC’s case. Moreover, the overseas 
balance sheet would account for the majority of the 
annual charge, with the UK balance sheet accounting 
for approximately one third of the total. 
Outlook  
We have been closely watching events unfold in 
parts of the Middle East and North Africa. Our 
primary concern is for the security of our 12,000 
staff across the region and we continue to work to 
ensure their safety. We have also activated robust 
continuity plans so that we can also stay open for 
business and support the needs of our customers. As 
a strongly capitalised global bank, HSBC’s financial 
performance has not been materially affected by 
events to date. HSBC has been present in the Middle 
East for more than 50 years and we remain 
absolutely committed to its future. We also believe 
that the region’s economies have a number of 
structural strengths which leave us positive on the 
longer-term outlook. 
In the short-term, risks to global growth remain, 
not least from an elevated oil price. We therefore 
expect cyclical volatility to continue – including in 
emerging markets – and progress is unlikely to be 
linear. In the longer-term, we believe that growth  9
Overview Operating & Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
rates in many Western markets will continue to 
significantly underperform those of the emerging 
world. Emerging markets are no longer simply 
leading the recovery from a Western crisis: the 
growth gap has become a sustained secular trend.  
The global economy’s structural position also 
still requires fundamental readjustment. Many 
Western economies must still deal with a large 
overhang of household and government debt and 
weak growth and high unemployment will make this 
a slow and painful process. As faster-growing 
nations seek to limit the effect of Western monetary 
policy on their own economies, we cannot discount 
the risk of increased tension over exchange rate and 
trade issues.  
HSBC’s balance sheet remains strongly 
positioned to benefit from future interest rate rises. 
We are realistic that, in many developed countries at 
least, historically low rates may continue to constrain 
income growth in the near-term. Nevertheless, 
maintaining a conservative liquidity position is core 
to our proposition and to our funding strength. In our 
risk appetite statement approved by the Board we 
have set a maximum advances-to-deposits ratio for 
the Group of 90%. This underlines our continuing 
commitment to a high level of liquidity and reflects 
our philosophy that HSBC should not be reliant on 
wholesale markets for funding. Even with a ratio 
currently slightly below 80%, we have capacity for 
further lending growth.
In the short-term, we expect the benefits of asset 
growth achieved in 2010 to continue to flow into 
revenues. In the medium-term, we will continue to 
target growth in the most strategically attractive 
markets for HSBC and build our capabilities in 
connectivity, one of our distinctive strengths as a 
globally-connected bank. 
At the same time, with demand in many 
developed markets constrained and interest spreads 
remaining compressed, we fully recognise the 
importance of ever more robust cost management 
discipline and the need to continue re-engineering 
the business to improve efficiency. 
Furthermore, capital is becoming a scarcer 
resource and, as a new regulatory environment 
evolves, I am committed to making capital allocation 
a more disciplined and rigorous process at HSBC in 
order to drive the correct investment decisions for 
the future.
We will talk more to investors about each of 
these initiatives later in the spring. However, as a 
result of this focus, we are committed to delivering a 
cost efficiency ratio and a return on average 
shareholders’ equity within our published target 
range.
We also recognise the importance of reliable 
dividend income for our shareholders and I believe it 
should be possible to benchmark a payout ratio of 
between 40-60% of attributable profits under normal 
market conditions. 
In closing, I would like to acknowledge the huge 
contribution that my predecessor, Mike Geoghegan, 
made to HSBC in his five years as Group Chief 
Executive – not least during 2010 – and I wish him 
well for the future. 
Finally, I am pleased to report that we have had 
a good start to the year, with continued momentum 
in lending, mainly in emerging markets and in 
respect of global trade. 
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive
28 February 2011 
