 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC  
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement 
4
Group Chairman’s Statement 
2012 was a year of considerable progress in 
delivering on the strategic priorities which the Board 
has tasked management to address. Our decision to 
focus on reshaping the Group through targeted 
disposals and closures and internal reorganisation is 
paying dividends. It is bringing greater clarity and 
focus and is delivering sustainable cost savings 
while allowing incremental investment to be 
available and directed towards the areas of greatest 
opportunity. 
This progress is all the more notable given that 
during 2012, the banking sector, including HSBC, 
faced continuing and in many ways unprecedented 
challenges. Banking has been given a huge wake-up 
call and we are determined to play our part in 
restoring its reputation and thereby regaining 
society’s trust. Thus our restructuring agenda is not 
only justified economically but is helping the Group 
shape its response to the media, the regulatory and 
political challenges, and societal expectations which, 
simply put, all revolve around restoring the trust of 
all stakeholders. From depositors to investors, 
regulators to employees, public policy makers to 
consumer lobbyists we need to ensure the business 
model of banking is fair, transparent, sustainable 
and meeting its core objective of serving society. 
Never has it been more important to put the 
customer first and provide the means and support 
to help them fulfil their financial aspirations and 
ambitions. That is our prime purpose and one of 
which we should never lose sight. 
Over the last two years the Board was exercised 
greatly by the major US regulatory and law 
enforcement investigations we faced. I covered the 
background to these investigations, settlement of 
which we reached in December, in our Interim 
Report.
Management is now delivering the required 
enhancements to our control framework and on top 
of this we have significantly augmented the Board’s 
oversight and governance capabilities. This is dealt 
with in more detail below. 
Encouragingly, there is now growing external 
recognition of the progress being made in delivering 
against our stated strategic priorities. This, together 
with our overweight exposure to the world’s more 
attractive economies, contributed to a total 
shareholder return of 39% over the year – 7% 
from dividends paid and 32% from share price 
appreciation. Over the course of the year the market 
capitalisation of HSBC grew by US$58bn from 
US$136bn to US$194bn, returning shareholders 
once again to the position where their company is 
worth more than its contributed capital. We 
remained among the highest dividend payers in the 
FTSE 100, a performance which we know is of great 
importance to our shareholders. 
The cover to this year’s Annual Report again 
illustrates our strategy of connecting customers and 
markets. The scene depicted is the cargo terminal at 
Hong Kong International Airport, which has been 
ranked as the busiest airport for international air 
cargo since 1996. Today the airport’s trade 
throughput represents over one third of Hong Kong's 
external trade. HSBC’s connection with trade 
financing and trade services through Hong Kong 
goes back to our earliest days and remains one of our 
core strengths. Projections of trade growth in Asia 
and Hong Kong’s role therein reinforce our 
investment focus in this area.  
Performance in 2012 
There was much to be positive about in HSBC’s 
performance in 2012. The majority of our core 
businesses in Asia, particularly in Hong Kong, 
continued to perform well, achieving good 
underlying revenue growth in the year. Increased 
market confidence around eurozone recovery 
contributed to a significant turnaround in Global 
Banking and Markets results in Europe. Targeted 
disposals and the continuing run-off from our exit 
portfolios in the United States, together with 
evidence of recovery in many housing areas were 
reflected in significantly lower US loan impairment 
charges.
Progress in managing costs to reflect a lower 
economic growth environment in developed markets 
was encouraging. Offsetting these positive factors, 
credit demand remained muted throughout Europe,  5
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
low interest rates continued to constrain the value of 
our liquid balance sheet and customer redress costs 
continued to weigh heavily in the UK.  
The Group Chief Executive’s Business Review 
covers financial performance and progress on 
strategy delivery in more detail. 
Reported results include the benefit of profits 
arising from the significant disposals made in the 
year as well as bearing the burden of the fines and 
penalties levied as part of the settlement with US 
regulatory and law enforcement agencies and 
increased customer redress provisions in the UK. 
When the Board assesses management performance 
as part of reward measurement, these disposal gains 
are eliminated but the legal settlement and customer 
redress costs are not. 
Looking through the reported results to 
underlying financial performance, the Board viewed 
positively the 2012 outcome. 
Although earnings per share of US$0.74 were 
20% lower than 2011, this largely reflected a 
US$9.1bn negative swing in the fair value of our 
own debt as credit spreads tightened, together with 
a higher tax rate.
With the Group’s capital position strengthened 
from retained profits and from capital released from 
the divestments made in the year, the Board has 
approved a 29% increase in the final dividend in 
respect of the year to US$0.18 per share, US$0.04 
higher than the final dividend in respect of 2011. 
Total dividends in respect of 2012 of US$8.3bn, 
amounted to US$0.45 per share, US$0.9bn higher 
than in 2011. The Board also intends to increase 
the quarterly dividends in respect of the first three 
quarters of 2013 by US$0.01 per share to US$0.10 
per share. 
Shareholders’ equity at the end of 2012 stood at 
US$175bn, US$17bn or some 10 % higher than at 
the beginning of the year. The core tier 1 capital 
ratio strengthened from 10.1% to 12.3% and the 
Group remains on track to deliver compliance with 
the more onerous Basel III requirements in the 
accelerated timetable being sought by UK regulators. 
During 2012, the UK government increased the 
rate of levy applied on the global balance sheets of 
UK domiciled banks. The cost to HSBC of the 
revised levy for the current year was US$571m of 
which US$295m related to non-UK banking activity. 
The 2012 levy, which is not tax deductible, is the 
equivalent of US$0.03 per ordinary share and, as 
indicated last year, would otherwise have been 
available for distribution to shareholders or used to 
strengthen the capital base further. 
Progress on regulatory reform 
2012 was a further year of progress in delivering key 
elements of the regulatory reform agenda mandated 
by the G20 in response to the financial crisis. After 
a long consultation period, the proposed Liquidity 
Coverage Ratio within the Basel III framework was 
recalibrated to better match industry experience, and 
so strengthen bank liquidity without unnecessarily 
constraining credit formation.  
The list of banks to be designated as globally 
significant was announced and, as expected, HSBC 
was one of four placed in the highest category. 
Good progress was made on clarifying the possible 
approaches to resolving the failure of a bank with 
operations in multiple jurisdictions. One approach 
was directly applicable to the subsidiarised model 
favoured by HSBC.  
On structural reform of banking entities, the 
Liikanen Group in Europe produced its report for 
consideration while draft alternatives have been 
proposed in France and Germany. In the UK, 
the Government substantially accepted the 
recommendations of the Independent Commission 
on Banking in a policy paper and a draft Financial 
Services (Banking Reform) Bill is expected to be 
approved in the first half of 2013. Thereafter, the 
government has signalled its intention to pass 
secondary legislation by the end of this parliament 
in 2015, with final implementation of the new 
regime by 2019.  
The key structural change being legislated 
remains the separation of certain banking activities 
for personal and small business customers into a 
ring-fenced bank with its own financial and 
governance arrangements. The recently appointed 
Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in 
the UK has reviewed the proposed legislation and 
inter alia recommended, strengthening the ring fence 
by empowering regulators to force full separation in 
the event of attempts to frustrate the objectives of the 
ring fence. 
Ongoing work remains extensive. Major areas 
of policy development covering augmenting loss 
absorbency through bailing-in certain categories of 
creditor, addressing the systemic impact of central 
clearing counterparties, establishing a banking union 
within the eurozone and revisiting the risk weighting 
of assets to enhance transparency and consistency, 
are among the most important.  
On top of this, the UK Parliamentary 
Commission on Banking Standards is currently 
examining all aspects of conduct, behaviour and  HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
Report of the Directors: Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement  
6
culture with a view to making recommendations 
designed to restore trust and confidence in banks. 
We are committed to working constructively 
with public policy makers and our regulators to give 
effect to these proposals. We note, however, two 
areas of concern. 
First, it is perplexing that, after the great 
international effort invested in the G20 programme 
of sound and consistent global financial regulation, 
and the extent of reform currently underway, an 
increasing number of countries now appear to 
be acting unilaterally, thereby putting globally 
consistent regulation at risk of fragmentation and 
‘balkanising’ the capital and liquidity resources of 
firms. 
Second, we believe the sheer scale and timescale 
of the reform programme is hampering investors’ 
line of sight to the long-term returns available.  
Resolving these two issues, which will require 
inter-governmental direction and co-operation, 
would contribute to enhancing the ability of the 
industry to support the economic growth agenda 
now being prioritised in most parts of the world. 
Enforcing global standards 
The Board is determined to adopt and enforce the 
highest behavioural and compliance standards in 
HSBC. For well documented reasons, the last two 
years have been extremely damaging to HSBC’s 
reputation and to our perception of ourselves. We 
faced serious failings both in the application of our 
standards and in our ability to identify, and so 
prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system 
through our networks. Our strategy is entirely 
configured to eliminate the possibility of this 
happening again. 
We have apologised unreservedly to all our 
stakeholders and have paid huge penalties both in 
monetary cost and reputational damage. More 
important than apologies, however, are the steps 
being taken to prevent recurrence. Management 
under Stuart Gulliver, the Group Chief Executive, 
is leading the work to simplify business and so 
reinforce risk management and control. 
Our success in meeting our objectives will be 
subject to independent validation not simply through 
ongoing regulatory review but additionally through 
the appointment of an independent Monitor who will 
report to both UK and US authorities. We welcome 
the additional rigour this will bring to the process of 
upgrading and enforcing our global standards. 
To reinforce the Board’s ability to exercise 
rigorous governance over these endeavours, we 
announced the creation of a new Board committee, 
the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 
on 30 January 2013. This committee will provide 
governance, oversight and policy guidance over the 
framework of controls and procedures designed to 
identify areas where HSBC may become exposed 
and, through that exposure, expose the financial 
system more broadly to financial crime or system 
abuse.
Five subject matter experts drawn from the 
highest levels of public service will support the 
committee. Their expertise includes the combating 
of organised crime, terrorist financing, narcotics 
trafficking, tax evasion and money laundering as 
well as expertise in intelligence gathering and 
international payments systems. They will provide 
invaluable guidance and advice, and most 
importantly challenge, as we strengthen our 
capabilities and enforce the highest standards. 
Further details of the background and experience 
of these individuals are contained in the Directors’ 
Report.
Recognising the need to augment the Board’s 
own experience and expertise we have also added 
specialist expertise at Board level. 
Board changes 
At the end of 2012 we said farewell to Narayana 
Murthy, who stepped down from the Board after 
serving with distinction for five years. Narayana, as 
co-founder and long-term CEO of Infosys, brought 
to the Board exceptional expertise in technology, 
operational efficiency and outsourcing matters as 
well as an in-depth knowledge of India and of 
international business through his experience on 
many multinational and educational boards. On 
behalf of the Board and shareholders I want to 
record our appreciation and gratitude for his 
contribution to HSBC.
We welcome two new directors to the Board. 
Renato Fassbind joined the Board on 1 January 
and will serve on the Audit and Remuneration 
Committees. Renato brings to the Board 
considerable international business and financial 
expertise from a distinguished career in industrial, 
service and financial companies. He is currently 
Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board and a 
member of the audit and the compensation 
committees of Swiss Reinsurance Company, 
a member of the Supervisory Board and audit 
committee of Kühne + Nagel International AG  7
Overview Operating & Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
and a member of the Supervisory Board of the 
Swiss Federal Audit Oversight Authority.  
Renato stepped down as Chief Financial Officer 
and a member of the executive board of Credit 
Suisse Group in September 2010, having served in 
that role since 2004.  
Jim Comey joins the Board today and will 
serve on the newly created Financial System 
Vulnerabilities Committee. Jim brings to the Board 
outstanding governance experience from both the 
private and public sectors. In his private sector roles 
he acted as General Counsel to leading international 
businesses and in public life served at the apex of 
law enforcement in the United States. Most recently, 
within the private sector, Jim Comey served as 
General Counsel of Bridgewater Associates, LP and 
prior to that as Senior Vice President and General 
Counsel of the Lockheed Martin Corporation. In 
public life, from 2003 to 2005, he served as US 
Deputy Attorney General, where he was responsible 
for supervising the operations of the Department of 
Justice, and chaired the President’s Corporate Fraud 
Task Force. From 2002 to 2003, he served as US 
Attorney for the Southern District of New York. 
Fuller details of their background and 
experience are set out in the Directors’ Report. 
Social contribution 
Much is currently being written and debated about 
the role banks should play in society. In large part, 
this reflects the fact that the economic success that 
underpins a harmonious society depends upon 
sustainable financing, confidence and trust in the 
financial system. That trust is founded upon the 
broader role that banks play in their local 
communities. 
Within HSBC, many of my colleagues 
make tremendous personal contributions to their 
communities and I want to take this opportunity to 
pay tribute to them. HSBC’s outreach in terms of 
community investment is primarily in the areas 
of education and the environment and, in 2012, in 
financial terms it amounted to some US$120m. 
In 2012, we extended our commitment to 
support disadvantaged and vulnerable young people 
who are neither in education, employment nor 
training. We support local and international charities 
working in this area, and also run our own staff-
driven ‘Future First’ programme, which helps street 
children, children in care and orphans to access 
education. Initiatives under this programme are 
developed and supported by HSBC colleagues 
around the world and, in 2012, 2,717 members of 
staff volunteered to support the programme.  
Importantly in all our community work we 
increasingly look to involve our staff to reinforce our 
links with the communities we serve. In 2012, for 
example, 114,982 HSBC colleagues spent 724,650 
hours in volunteer activity. 
We also launched the HSBC Water Programme 
last year. This is a five-year, US$100m commitment 
to support Water Aid, WWF and Earthwatch to 
deliver freshwater and sanitation to poor rural 
communities in Asia and Africa, educate local 
communities on sustainable water management in 
five major river basins around the world, and involve 
more than 7,500 HSBC staff with local conservation 
partners to address urban water management issues 
and learn to carry out scientific water research tasks. 
Looking ahead 
It is often said that people come together in 
adversity, learning lessons from the past and each 
other to create the bonds that ensure a better future. 
I believe that this has happened within HSBC. The 
last year has been a difficult one for all at HSBC as 
we addressed the restructuring of the firm against a 
lower-growth economic backdrop and with legacy 
issues and regulatory challenges imposing a further 
set of imperatives. Our 270,000 staff have had to 
face up to bewildering descriptions of HSBC that 
contrasted with the way they conduct their 
relationships with the firm’s customers and clients.  
What has been inspirational is how everyone has 
pulled together, focused on the future and committed 
to do all and everything necessary to restore a 
reputation that we all believe can be positively 
distinctive. On behalf of the Board, I want to thank 
all our employees for that commitment and their 
loyal support.  
I also want to thank our clients and customers, 
our shareholders, our regulators and those in 
government who believe, as we do, that we will meet 
the commitments we have made to allow us better to 
serve the communities who entrust their financial 
needs to HSBC. 
D J Flint, Group Chairman
4 March 2013 
