 Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement / Group Chief Executive’s Review 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
6 
Review being conducted by the Bank of 
England, Her Majesty’s Treasury and the 
Financial Conduct Authority is an extremely 
timely and important exercise to re-establish 
the integrity of wholesale financial markets. 
In terms of our own governance of these 
areas, the Conduct & Values Committee of 
the Board that we created at the beginning 
of 2014 to focus on behavioural issues 
has established itself firmly as the central 
support to the Board in these important 
areas. 
Board changes 
Since we reported at the interim stage we 
have taken further steps to augment the 
skills and experience within the Board 
and to address succession to key roles. 
On 1 January 2015, Phillip Ameen joined 
the Board and the Group Audit Committee 
as an independent non-executive Director. 
Phil was formerly Vice President, 
Comptroller and Principal Accounting 
Officer of General Electric Corp. He brings 
with him extensive financial and accounting 
experience gained in one of the world’s 
leading international companies as well as 
a depth of technical knowledge from his 
long service in the accounting standard 
setting world. As a serving Director on 
HSBC’s US businesses he also brings further 
detailed insight to Group Board discussions 
and enhances the strong links that already 
exist between the Group Board and its 
major subsidiaries. 
Sir Simon Robertson had previously 
indicated his intention to retire from 
the Board at the upcoming AGM. I am 
delighted to report that Simon has 
agreed to stay on for at least a further 
year as Deputy Chairman. He has been a 
considerable support to me and to Stuart 
Gulliver, in addition to his role leading the 
non-executives, and we are all delighted 
that we shall continue to benefit from his 
wisdom and experience. 
150th anniversary 
2015 marks the 150th anniversary of our 
founding back in Hong Kong and Shanghai 
as a small regional bank focused on trade 
and investment. All of us within HSBC owe 
a huge debt of gratitude and respect to our 
forebears who charted the course that has 
taken HSBC to one of the most important 
institutions serving the financial needs of 
this inter-dependent world. 
Outlook 
It is impossible not to reflect on the very 
broad range of uncertainties and challenges 
to be addressed in 2015 and beyond, 
most of which are outside our control, 
particularly against a backdrop of patchy 
economic recovery and limited policy 
ammunition. Unexpected outcomes 
arising from current geopolitical tensions, 
eurozone membership uncertainties, 
political changes, currency and commodity 
price realignments, interest rate moves 
and the effectiveness of central banks’ 
unconventional policies, to name but a 
few, all could materially affect economic 
conditions and confidence around 
investment and consumption decisions. 
One economic uncertainty stands out for a 
major financial institution headquartered in 
the UK, that of continuing UK membership 
of the EU. Today, we publish a major 
research study which concludes that 
working to complete the Single Market in 
services and reforming the EU to make it 
more competitive are far less risky than 
going it alone, given the importance of 
EU markets to British trade. 
There are also many underlying positive 
trends that shape our thinking about the 
coming year. We are very encouraged 
by the trends in outward investment from 
China, the potential for further liberalisation 
and internationalisation of the renminbi 
and the reshaping of the Chinese economy 
from export dependence to domestic 
consumption. We are positive on the 
opportunities that will arise from Capital 
Markets Union within Europe and the 
declared focus of the incoming Commission 
on growth and jobs. The strength of the 
US economy and the benefits of lower oil 
prices should be positive drivers of growth. 
There is much to be gained from successful 
negotiation of the Transatlantic Trade and 
Investment Partnership and the Trans-
Pacific Partnership. Current attention on 
funding infrastructure investment globally 
is potentially of huge significance. 
Finally, on behalf of the Board, I want again 
to express our thanks and gratitude to our 
266,000 colleagues around the world who 
worked determinedly in 2014 to build an 
HSBC fit for the next 150 years. 
 
 
D J Flint 
Group Chairman 
23 February 2015   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
7 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Profits disappointed, although a tough 
fourth quarter masked some of the 
progress made over the preceding three 
quarters. Many of the challenging aspects 
of the fourth quarter results were common 
to the industry as a whole. In spite of this, 
there were a number of encouraging signs, 
particularly in Commercial Banking, 
Payments & Cash Management and 
renminbi products and services. We were 
also able to continue to grow the dividend. 
Reported profit before tax in 2014 was 
US$18.7bn, US$3.9bn lower than in the 
previous year. This reflected lower gains 
from disposals and reclassifications, and 
the negative effect of other significant 
items, including fines, settlements, UK 
customer redress and associated 
provisions, totalling US$3.7bn.   
Adjusted profit before tax, which excludes 
the year-on-year effects of currency 
translation differences and significant 
items, was US$22.8bn, broadly unchanged 
on 2013. 
Asia continued to provide a strong 
contribution to Group profits. Middle East 
and North Africa reported a record profit 
before tax in 2014. Together, Asia and 
MENA generated more than 70% of 
adjusted Group profit before tax. 
Commercial Banking also delivered a record 
reported profit, which is evidence of the 
successful execution of our strategy. 
Revenue in CMB continued to grow, 
notably in our two home markets of Hong 
Kong and the UK. 
Global Banking and Markets performed 
relatively well for the first three quarters of 
the year, but, like much of the rest of the 
industry, suffered a poor fourth quarter. 
Revenue was lower in 2014, particularly in 
our Markets businesses, but all other client-
facing businesses delivered year-on-year 
growth.  
Revenue was also lower in Retail Banking 
and Wealth Management, due primarily to 
the continuing repositioning of the 
business. However, in our Global Asset 
Management business we continued our 
strategy of strengthening collaboration 
across our global businesses, which helped 
to attract net new money of US$29bn. 
Global Private Banking continues to undergo 
a comprehensive overhaul which was 
accelerated from 2011. As part of this 
overhaul, we are implementing tough 
financial crime, regulatory compliance and 
tax transparency measures. In order to 
achieve our desired business model and 
informed by our six filters process, we have 
also sold a number of businesses and 
customer portfolios, including assets in 
Japan, Panama and Luxembourg. The 
number of customer accounts in our Swiss 
Private Bank is now nearly 70% lower than at 
its peak. We continued to remodel the 
Private Bank in 2014, which included the sale 
of a customer portfolio in Switzerland to LGT 
Bank. One consequence of this remodelling 
was a reduction in revenue. We have also 
grown the parts of the business that fit our 
new model, attracting US$14bn of net new 
money in 2014, mostly through clients of 
Global Banking & Markets and Commercial 
Banking. 
Loan impairment charges were lower, 
reflecting the current economic 
environment and the changes we have 
made to our portfolio since 2011. 
Operating expenses were higher due to 
increased regulatory and compliance costs, 
inflationary pressures and investment in 
strategic initiatives to support growth, 
primarily in Commercial Banking in Asia and 
Europe. Significant items, which include 
restructuring costs, were also higher than 
last year. 
We agreed settlements in respect of 
inquiries by the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority and the US Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission into the foreign 
exchange market in 2014. HSBC was badly 
let down by a few individuals whose 
actions do not reflect the vast majority 
of employees who uphold the values and 
standards expected of the bank. This 
matter is now rightly in the hands of the 
Serious Fraud Office. 
Our balance sheet remained strong, with 
a ratio of customer advances to customer 
accounts of 72%. Excluding the effects of 
currency translation, customer loans 
and advances grew by US$28bn during 
2014. 
The common equity tier 1 ratio on a 
transitional basis was 10.9% and on a CRD 
IV end point basis was 11.1% at 
31 December 2014.  
Connecting customers to 
opportunities 
2015 is HSBC’s 150th anniversary. Founded 
in Hong Kong in 1865 to finance local and 
international trade, the bank expanded 
rapidly to capture the increasing flow of 
commerce between Asia, Europe and North 
America. Our ability to connect customers 
across the world remains central to the 
bank’s strategy today and in 2014 we 
continued to develop and grow the product 
areas that rely on international 
connectivity. 
Our market-leading Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance business remains 
strong and we were voted best global trade 
finance bank and best trade finance bank in 
MENA in the Global Trade Review ‘Leaders 
In Trade’ Awards. 
Group Chief Executive’s Review
2014 was a challenging year in which we continued to work hard 
to improve business performance while managing the impact of a 
higher operating cost environment.  Overview (continued) 
Group Chief Executive’s Review / Strategic objectives 
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
8 
In Payments and Cash Management, 
we increased customer mandates and 
improved client coverage. We were 
recognised as the best global cash 
management bank for the third successive 
year in the 2014 Euromoney Cash 
Management Survey.  
Our share of the capital financing market 
continued to improve and we were ranked 
number one for debt capital markets in our 
home markets of the UK and Hong Kong, 
and number one for Equity Capital Markets 
in Hong Kong by Dealogic. HSBC was also 
named global bond house of the year, 
global derivatives house of the year and 
Asian bond house of the year in the 
International Financing Review Awards 
2014. 
We consolidated our leadership of the 
rapidly growing renminbi market in 2014. 
According to SWIFT, the renminbi is now 
the fifth most widely used payment 
currency in the world, up from 13th just 
two years ago. We increased revenue from 
renminbi products and retained our ranking 
as number one issuer of offshore renminbi 
bonds worldwide over the last twelve 
months. HSBC was also recognised as the 
best overall provider for products and 
services in Asiamoney’s Offshore Renminbi 
Services Survey in 2014, and renminbi house 
of the year in the 2014 Asia Risk Awards.     
Operating a global business 
It is already clear that the regulatory costs 
of operating a global business model have 
increased since we announced our strategy 
for HSBC in 2011.  
As the Group Chairman’s Statement 
explains, the regulatory environment 
continues to evolve.   
Our commitment to be the world’s leading 
international bank means that improving 
our regulatory and compliance abilities 
and implementing Global Standards must 
remain priorities for HSBC. Our Compliance 
staff headcount has more than doubled 
since 2011 and there is more work still to 
do to strengthen the Group’s compliance 
capability.  
At the same time, the level of capital that 
we hold has increased by over 60% since 
before the financial crisis. Specifically, we 
have further strengthened our capital 
levels in response to increasing capital 
requirements from the UK Prudential 
Regulation Authority.  
Whilst we expected an increase in the 
amount of capital we were required to 
hold when setting targets for the Group in 
2011, we could not have foreseen the full 
extent of the additional costs and capital 
commitment that would subsequently be 
asked of us. The pace of change has been 
exceptional. As a consequence, some of the 
targets that we set for the Group in 2011 
are no longer realistic.   
In recognition of that fact, we have set new 
medium-term targets that better reflect 
the ongoing operating environment.   
We are setting a revised return on equity 
target of more than 10%. This target is 
modelled using a common equity tier 1 
capital ratio on a CRD IV end point basis 
in the range of 12% to 13%.  
Our cost target will be to grow our revenue 
faster than costs (‘positive jaws’) on an 
adjusted basis.  
We are also restating our commitment 
to grow the dividend. To be clear, the 
progression of dividends should be 
consistent with the growth of the overall 
profitability of the Group and is predicated 
on our ability to meet regulatory capital 
requirements in a timely manner.  
These targets offer a realistic reflection of 
the capabilities of HSBC in the prevailing 
operating environment. 
Our employees 
I am grateful for the hard work, dedication 
and professionalism of all of our employees 
in 2014. 
Extensive work was required to prepare 
HSBC for stress tests in a number of 
jurisdictions throughout the year, the 
results of which confirmed the capital 
strength of the Group. HSBC will face 
additional stress testing in 2015.  
We all have to work continuously to make 
sure that the Group remains compliant 
with anti-money laundering and sanctions 
legislation and this effort continued in 
2014.  
Management and staff across the Group 
continued to work very closely with the 
Monitor to deliver our commitments under 
the terms of our December 2012
settlement agreements with the US 
authorities and the UK Financial Conduct 
Authority. We have now received the 
second annual report from the Monitor. 
Whilst it confirmed that we continue to 
comply with the obligations we undertook 
in the Deferred Prosecution Agreement 
with the US Department of Justice, as we 
expected we still have substantial work to 
do.  
Summary and outlook 
The business remains in a good position 
structurally to capitalise on broader market 
trends and the macroeconomic backdrop 
remains favourable, notwithstanding the 
continuing low interest rate environment.  
There are still a number of historical issues 
left to resolve and we will make further 
progress on these in 2015. We will also 
continue the work we started in 2011 to 
simplify the Group to make it easier to 
manage and control. 
Our 2014 results show a business powered 
by our continued strength in Hong Kong, 
with significant additional contributions 
from the rest of Asia and the Middle East 
and North Africa.  The continuing success of 
Commercial Banking and the resilience of 
our differentiated Global Banking & 
Markets business illustrate the 
effectiveness of our strategy to bridge 
global trade and capital flows. Retail 
Banking & Wealth Management remains a 
work in progress, but we took considerable 
further steps to de-risk the business in 
2014. Global Private Banking continues to 
attract net new money from clients in our 
other global businesses. We maintain a 
sharp focus on generating net savings to 
offset increased costs arising from inflation, 
and the cost of implementing global 
standards.  
Our early 2015 performance has been 
satisfactory. 
We continue to focus on the execution of 
our strategy and on delivering value to 
shareholders. 
 
S T Gulliver 
Group Chief Executive 
23 February 2015 
 
  
