 Group Chief  
Executive’s Review
The strength of our network gives us an unrivalled 
ability to help clients navigate complexity and uncover 
new opportunities.
border mergers and acquisitions. HSBC was 
recognised as the ‘World’s Best Investment Bank’ 
and ‘World’s Best Bank for Corporates’ at the 
Euromoney Awards for Excellence 2016.
Commercial Banking performed well, particularly 
in the UK and Hong Kong, growing adjusted 
revenue in spite of a slow-down in global trade. 
Gains in Global Liquidity and Cash Management, 
and Credit and Lending, exceeded the reduction  
in trade finance revenue. Global Trade and 
Receivables Finance continued to capture market 
share in major markets including Hong Kong and 
Singapore, maintaining our position as the world’s 
number one trade finance bank. 
Retail Banking and Wealth Management 
performance was mixed. Overall adjusted revenue 
was down, due largely to the impact of reduced 
client activity in Hong Kong on our Wealth 
Management businesses. At the same time, strong 
mortgage balance growth in the UK, Hong Kong 
and mainland China, and higher current account 
and savings balances in the UK and Hong Kong, 
helped increase revenue in Retail Banking. These 
increased balances should support revenue growth 
in 2017 and beyond. 
We have considered it appropriate to write off  
the remaining goodwill in the European private 
banking business. This goodwill relates principally 
to the original purchase of Safra Republic Holdings 
in 1999. The restructuring of Global Private 
Banking is now largely complete, and although 
Global Private Banking is now much smaller  
than it was three years ago, it is deliberately 
positioned for sustainable growth with a focus  
on serving the personal wealth management 
needs of the leadership and owners of the  
Group’s corporate clients.
Our cost-reduction programmes continue to  
bring down our adjusted operating expenses.  
The traction that these programmes have gained in 
the last 18 months has enabled us to increase the 
amount of costs that we are able to remove from 
the business. We now expect to deliver annualised 
cost savings of around $6bn by the end of 2017, 
and will invest an equivalent total of around $6bn 
over the same time-frame in order to achieve this.
Stuart Gulliver Group Chief Executive
We made good progress in 2016. The 
implementation of our strategic actions is well 
advanced and our global universal business model 
performed well in challenging conditions. Our 
reported profit before tax reflected a number of 
large significant items, including a write-off of all  
the remaining goodwill in Global Private Banking in 
Europe, an accounting loss on the sale of our Brazil 
business, and investments to achieve our cost-
saving target. Our adjusted profits were broadly 
unchanged year on year following solid 
performances by our global businesses. These 
enabled us to capture market share in strategic 
product areas and build a platform for future 
growth. We delivered positive adjusted jaws in 2016.
Performance
Global Banking and Markets recovered from a 
sector-wide slow start to generate higher adjusted 
revenue than for 2015. Our Markets businesses 
performed well in challenging conditions, 
particularly in Fixed Income products. Our 
transaction banking businesses also grew revenue, 
especially Global Liquidity and Cash Management. 
We made market share gains in Fixed Income in 
Europe, and achieved our best ever league table 
rankings in global debt capital markets and cross-
Strategic Report Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 7
Group Chief Executive’s Review
Strategic Report Delivering value for shareholders
In December, we completed the $2.5bn equity 
buy-back that we commenced at the half-year.  
We are also now in a position to retire more of 
the capital that previously supported the Brazil 
business. Having received the appropriate 
regulatory clearances, we will therefore execute  
a further share buy-back of up to $1bn in the first 
half of 2017. This will bring the total value of shares 
repurchased since last August to $3.5bn.
We will continue to contemplate further share 
buy-backs as circumstances permit, and  
we remain confident of sustaining the annual 
dividend at the current level for the foreseeable 
future through the long-term earnings capacity  
of the business.
A business fit for the future
While our strategic actions are improving our 
network, we are also anticipating and adapting  
to the social, economic and technological trends 
that are changing our operating environment and 
our customers’ needs and expectations.
The adoption of rapidly evolving digital 
technologies by our customers is arguably the 
most transformative force for the financial services 
industry. Through our global network, we are able 
to identify and respond to digital trends across  
70 countries and territories, applying the 
technologies that provide the greatest benefit to 
our customers. We are investing $2.1bn in digital 
transformation in Retail Banking and Wealth 
Management, Commercial Banking, and Global 
Banking and Markets between 2015 and the  
end of 2020, and we have already launched 
innovative ways to make banking faster, easier  
and safer. HSBC is now the biggest financial 
services user of biometrics globally, and we 
continue to roll out voice recognition and 
fingerprint technology across our network. In 2016, 
we enhanced our internet and mobile banking 
platforms in several of our key markets, including 
the UK and Hong Kong, and launched innovation 
labs around the world dedicated to the application 
of artificial intelligence, data management and 
improvements in cybersecurity. These labs, 
together with our fintech partnerships, will help  
us use technology to deliver better banking for  
our customers.
These savings should more than compensate for 
additional investment in regulatory programmes 
and compliance. 
We continue to make strong progress in 
implementing our strategic actions to improve 
returns and gain maximum value from our 
international network. We are on course to 
complete the majority of these actions by the  
end of 2017 (see pages 12 to 13), in line with our 
targets. Our targeted reduction of risk-weighted 
assets is 97% complete, and the success of our 
cost saving programmes means that we now 
expect to exceed our cost reduction target. 
The turnaround of our Mexico business  
continues to accelerate. Improved lending and 
deposit balances, interest rate rises and better 
collaboration between businesses helped generate 
significantly higher profits compared with 2015. 
We also made significant market share gains, 
particularly in consumer lending. 
We have continued to enhance our business  
in Asia-Pacific, launching our first exclusively 
HSBC-branded credit card in mainland China, 
growing assets under management and insurance 
new business premiums, and increasing loans  
in the Pearl River Delta. We also extended our 
leadership of the offshore renminbi bond market 
and achieved our best ranking for China outbound 
mergers and acquisitions since 2003.
We are better protected from financial crime 
because of the investment we have made in  
our Global Standards programme. Our Monitor  
has raised certain concerns, but we have 
continued to progress and our commitment 
remains unwavering. By the end of this year, we 
are on track to have our anti-money laundering  
and sanctions policy framework in place and to 
have introduced major compliance IT systems 
across the Group. Beyond 2017, we will continue  
to work to fine tune those systems and to ensure 
that our improvements are fully integrated into  
our day-to-day risk management practices.
Our strong common equity tier 1 ratio of 13.6% 
reinforces our ability to support the dividend,  
invest in the business and manage the continuing 
uncertain regulatory environment.
8 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report | Group Chief Executive’s Review If digital technology is mankind’s greatest 
opportunity, preventing climate change is its 
greatest challenge. The Paris Agreement of 
December 2015 reflected a new consensus on  
the need to strengthen the global response to 
climate change. Major injections of capital are  
now required to finance new technologies, 
infrastructure and the transition of traditional 
industries from high to low carbon, and to cover 
the costs of climate adaptation. As the principal 
intermediaries between entrepreneurs, businesses 
and investors, banks have a responsibility to help 
direct this flow of capital. We are already working 
with our clients and with investors to help them 
allocate capital and direct finance towards lower-
carbon, carbon-resilient activities, and in 2016  
we established a Sustainable Financing Unit to 
coordinate this work across business lines. 
Headquartered in London, but with resources  
in New York and Hong Kong, this new unit will 
support colleagues tasked with creating and 
delivering innovative climate products, and help 
them uncover new sources of sustainable finance. 
We are also seeking to influence client practices 
and to build the data, the tools and the 
transparency necessary to embed understanding 
of climate risk into the way that markets function. 
In 2016, HSBC Global Research expanded its 
coverage of environment, social and corporate 
governance factors to give our clients the 
information they need to inform their investment 
decisions. This builds on the work of the world-
leading HSBC Climate Change Centre for 
Excellence, which in 2017 celebrates 10 years  
of delivering market-leading information on climate 
policy to clients across the globe. Work is also 
underway to expand the Group’s disclosure of 
non-financial data to meet the needs of 
shareholders and other stakeholders.
We are investing to adapt to the changing face  
of trade. As the world’s largest trade finance bank 
with more than 150 years’ experience at both ends 
‘The changes we have made since 2011 have 
equipped HSBC to improve returns and gain 
maximum value from our international network’
of the world’s busiest trade routes, we are perfectly 
placed to help modernise and digitise long-
standing trade finance methods, many of which 
would still be recognisable to HSBC’s founders.  
We are already working with a broad coalition  
of partners around the world to make the promise  
of blockchain technology a reality with regards  
to trade finance. HSBC has already helped develop  
a blockchain prototype for a letter of credit that 
confirms the possibility of sharing information 
between all parties on a private distributed  
ledger. In early 2017, we signed a memorandum  
of understanding with six other banks to make 
domestic and cross-border commerce easier  
for European SMEs using blockchain technology. 
We are also seeking to create ways of financing  
the growing services trade, which we estimate  
will account for a quarter of global trade by 2030.  
At a time when international politics threaten to 
increase rather than decrease the cost of trade,  
we will continue to invest both time and resources 
to find ways of making trade finance cheaper, 
faster, simpler and more secure for our customers. 
Looking forward
We anticipate new challenges in 2017 from 
geopolitical developments, heightened trade 
barriers and regulatory uncertainty. However, the 
changes we have made since 2011 have equipped 
HSBC to manage the complexity of today’s global 
business environment. HSBC is a strong and 
resilient business with a global universal business 
model geared to find growth opportunities in a 
low-growth world. If globalisation continues to 
retreat, as seems likely, we are in a strong position 
to capitalise on the regional opportunities that this 
will present, particularly in Asia and Europe. Most 
importantly, the strength of our network gives us 
an unrivalled ability to help our clients navigate  
that same complexity and overcome their own 
challenges, whether exploring new markets or 
making the transition to a low-carbon economy.
Stuart Gulliver 
Group Chief Executive 
21 February 2017
Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 9
Strategic Report
Group Chief Executive’s Review
