 Overview (continued) 
Group Chairman’s Statement  
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
4 
As economic activity in much of the world 
failed to reach the levels required to 
rebuild sustainable consumer confidence 
and prompt renewed investment 
expenditure, governments most impacted 
expanded their stimulus measures and the 
major central banks maintained interest 
rates at their unprecedented low levels. 
Concerns over deflationary trends, 
particularly in the eurozone, grew. 
Although China delivered growth which 
comfortably surpassed all other major 
economies, expectations of slower growth 
in the future weighed heavily on market 
sentiment and contributed to significant 
commodity price falls and further 
curtailment of global investment spending. 
Unsurprisingly in this environment, revenue 
growth opportunities were strongest in our 
Asian businesses, with expansion in lending 
and debt capital financing. Cost progression 
continued globally in large part to 
implement regulatory change and enhance 
risk controls, notably around financial 
system integrity and conduct. Streamlining 
initiatives could only partly offset this cost 
expansion. Further customer redress costs 
and regulatory penalties around past 
failings reinforced the Board’s continuing 
commitment to prioritise whatever further 
investment in systems and controls is 
necessary to mitigate future repetition.
It is clear now that societal, regulatory and 
public policy expectations of our industry 
are changing its long-term cost structure. 
Technological advancements around data 
analytics, including ‘big data’, are providing 
much more sophisticated tools to enhance 
our capabilities to protect the financial 
system from bad actors. Also, as more and 
more customers choose to transact online 
and through mobile devices, we are making 
the necessary investment to protect 
ourselves and our customers from cyber 
threats. Building the required analytical 
capabilities entails considerable investment 
in systems and in maintaining customer 
data which is accurate and up to date. 
Reconfiguring customer and transactional 
data to the digital age is no small 
endeavour given legacy systems and a 
multiplicity of historical data standards 
globally. The benefits, however, of 
enhanced customer due diligence 
capabilities and greater systems security 
essentially go to the core of our systemic 
role and allow us to be more proactive in 
fulfilling that role as a key gatekeeper to 
the financial system. 
As our industry reshapes in response to 
public policy and regulatory directives, we 
now need to demonstrate, through clarity 
of our business model, the value to society 
of our scale and diversification. We must 
never forget that investors have choices 
where to invest and individuals have 
choices where to make their careers. Thus 
it is essential that we can demonstrate a 
positive contribution to the societies we 
serve in order to bolster the business 
friendly environment that all agree is 
essential for economic growth and 
prosperity. 
For 150 years HSBC has been following 
trade and investment flows to serve 
customers as they fulfil their financial 
ambitions. In a world which has moved 
from being interconnected to being 
interdependent, our business model is 
increasingly relevant to companies of all 
sizes and to individuals whose financial 
future is linked to economic activity in 
multiple countries.   
This can be seen most markedly in our 
Commercial Banking business, which 
delivered a record year buoyed by the 
expansion of supply chain management 
solutions and increasing cross-border 
payment flows. Our network coverage of 
the countries which originate more than 
85% of the world’s payment activity drives 
this key element of our business model. On 
the investment side, throughout our 
network we saw corporate flows continuing 
to target the higher growth emerging 
markets. At the same time, growth in 
outward investment from mainland China 
accelerated as its major companies sought 
diversification and access to both skill bases 
and markets. These trends played to HSBC’s 
scale and presence in the key financial 
centres, allowing us to support customers 
with debt and equity financing solutions, 
offering tailored liquidity and transactional 
banking support and providing risk 
management solutions primarily against 
our clients’ interest rate and foreign 
exchange exposures. Success was 
evidenced by growing recognition in 
industry awards, the most important of 
which are referred to in the Group Chief 
Executive’s Review. Finally, our Retail 
Banking and Wealth Management business 
continued its journey to build a sustainable 
customer focused business model, 
completing the removal of formulaic links 
between product sales and performance-
related pay of our staff, and expanding our 
digital and mobile offerings. 
 
  
Group Chairman’s Statement 
HSBC’s performance in 2014 reflected another year of 
consolidation in the reshaping and strengthening of the Group 
against a backdrop of geopolitical and economic headwinds, many 
of which could not have been foreseen at the outset of the year.   
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 
5 
Strategic Report  Financial Review  Corporate Governance  Financial Statements  Shareholder Information 
Performance in 2014 
Profit before tax of US$18.7bn on a 
reported basis was US$3.9bn or 17% 
lower than that achieved in 2013. This 
primarily reflected lower business disposal 
and reclassification gains and the negative 
effect, on both revenue and costs, of 
significant items including fines, settlements, 
UK customer redress and associated 
provisions. On the adjusted basis that is 
one of the key metrics used to assess 
current year management and business 
performance, profit before tax was 
US$22.8bn, broadly in line with 2013 
on a comparable basis.  
Earnings per share were US$0.69, against 
US$0.84 in 2013. The Group’s capital 
position remained strong with the 
transitional common equity tier 1 ratio 
standing at 10.9% at the end of the year, 
compared with 10.8% 12 months earlier, 
and our end point ratio at 11.1% compared 
with 10.9%. Based on this capital strength 
and the Group’s capital generating 
capabilities, the Board approved a fourth 
interim dividend in respect of 2014 of 
US$0.20 per share, taking the total 
dividends in respect of the year to US$0.50 
per share (US$9.6bn, US$0.4bn higher than 
in respect of 2013). 
Taking into account this financial 
performance, together with the further 
progress made in reshaping the Group, 
responding to regulatory change and 
implementing Global Standards, the Board 
considered executive management to 
have made good progress during 2014 
towards strengthening HSBC’s long-term 
competitive position. 
The Group Chief Executive’s Review 
analyses in detail the important 
benchmarks and highlights of 2014. 
Regulatory landscape becomes 
clearer but still much to do 
A great deal of progress was made during 
2014 to finalise the framework under which 
globally systemic banks like HSBC will be 
required to operate when it is fully 
implemented. This clarity is essential if 
we are to be able to position our global 
businesses to meet the return expectations 
of those who invest in us within an 
acceptable risk appetite.  
In particular, major progress was made in 
addressing the challenge of ‘too big to fail’, 
largely through finalising proposals to 
augment existing loss absorbing capacity 
with ‘bail-inable’ debt and through greater 
definition of how resolution frameworks 
would operate in practice. In both cases, 
this involved the critical issue of how to 
address cross-border implications and 
home and host country regulatory 
responsibilities.  
There is, however, still much to complete. 
The regulatory reform agenda for 2015 
is very full with pending public policy 
decisions, regulatory consultations and 
impact studies in areas of far reaching 
influence to the structure of our industry. 
These include the conclusion of structural 
separation deliberations in Europe, further 
work on so called ‘shadow banking’ 
including identifying non-bank systemically 
important institutions, addressing 
the resolution framework for central 
counterparties, finalising the calibration of 
the leverage ratio, calibrating the quantum 
of total loss absorbing capacity to be raised 
and settling the disposition of that capacity 
within global groups. 
Restoration of trust in 
our industry remains a 
significant challenge as 
further misdeeds are 
uncovered but it is a 
challenge we must meet 
successfully. 
In addition, further work will be undertaken 
on utilising standardised risk weights to 
overcome regulatory loss of confidence in 
internally modelled capital measures and a 
‘fundamental review of the trading book’ 
is also underway within the regulatory 
community to look again at capital support 
for this activity. These measures, which 
in aggregate are designed to make the 
industry structurally more stable, will take 
the next five or so years to implement, 
an indication of the scale of the 
transformation to be completed.  
During 2014, the UK government also 
confirmed the permanence of the UK bank 
levy. This was introduced in 2010, in part 
to address the burden borne by taxpayers 
from failures during the global financial 
crisis; in 2014, the cost to HSBC of the levy 
was US$1.1bn, an increase of US$0.2bn 
over 2013. 58% of the levy we pay does 
not relate to our UK banking activity.  
Rebuilding trust 
Restoration of trust in our industry remains 
a significant challenge as further misdeeds 
are uncovered but it is a challenge we must 
meet successfully. We owe this not just to 
society but to our staff to ensure they can 
be rightly proud of the organisation to 
which they have committed their careers. 
When commentators extrapolate instances 
of control failure or individual misconduct 
to question the culture of the firm it strikes 
painfully at the heart of our identity. 
Swiss Private Bank 
The recent disclosures around 
unacceptable historical practices and 
behaviour within the Swiss private bank 
remind us of how much there still is to do 
and how far society’s expectations have 
changed in terms of banks’ responsibilities. 
They are also a reminder of the need for 
constant vigilance over the effectiveness of 
our controls and the imperative to embed a 
robust and ethical compliance culture. 
We deeply regret and apologise for the 
conduct and compliance failures highlighted 
which were in contravention of our own 
policies as well as expectations of us.  
In response to, and in parallel with, the 
tax investigations prompted by the data 
theft more than eight years ago, we have 
been completely overhauling our private 
banking business, putting the entire 
customer base through enhanced due 
diligence and tax transparency filters. Our 
Swiss Private Bank customer base and the 
countries we serve are now both about 
one-third of the size they were in 2007. 
In addition, HSBC is already working to 
implement the OECD’s Common Reporting 
Standard and other measures to foster 
greater transparency. We cannot change 
the past. But, looking to the future, we 
can and must reinforce controls and 
provide demonstrable evidence of their 
effectiveness. This forms part of our 
commitment to Global Standards, to 
ensure that we will never knowingly do 
business with counterparties seeking to 
evade taxes or use the financial system to 
commit financial crime. 
Banking standards 
More broadly, following the publication in 
2013 of the Parliamentary Commission on 
Banking Standards, considerable progress 
has been made in giving effect to its 
recommendations. The Financial Services 
(Banking Reform) Act of 2013 provided 
greater clarity on the accountabilities and 
responsibilities of management and the 
Board. We welcome the appointment of 
Dame Colette Bowe to lead the Banking 
Standards Review Council and have 
committed to support her fully in its work. 
The current Fair and Effective Markets 
