 Group Chairman’s 
Statement
The Group has improved its productivity, embraced 
technological change and continues to reinforce its 
standards of business conduct. It has a strong capital 
position and is gaining market share in important areas.
The Group’s reported profit before tax amounted  
to $7.1bn, some 62% lower than the prior year.  
This decline principally reflected the impact of 
significant items, most of which had no impact  
on capital, even though they were material in 
accounting terms. On the adjusted basis used to 
measure management and business performance, 
profit before tax was $19.3bn, broadly in line with 
the $19.5bn achieved in the prior year. This 
outcome was largely driven by improved cost 
performance as prior year initiatives gained  
traction and substantially offset lower revenues, 
while loan impairment charges were marginally 
higher. Earnings per share of $0.07 compared  
with $0.65 in 2015. 
The Group’s core capital position improved 
materially. A change to the regulatory treatment  
of our associate in mainland China, continued 
run-off of legacy assets, planned reduction in 
certain segments of our trading books and 
inadequately remunerated assets, together with 
capital released from business disposals, notably 
our operations in Brazil, drove this improvement. 
This created the capacity to return $2.5bn of capital 
by way of a share buy-back, which was completed 
in December. We met our objective of maintaining 
the annual dividend in respect of the year at $0.51, 
as indicated at the interim stage. This was delivered 
through the declaration today of a fourth interim 
dividend of $0.21. Reflecting on the strength  
of the Group’s capital position, the Board also 
approved a further share buy-back of up to $1bn, 
which is expected to commence shortly.
Strategic actions are now bearing fruit
In reviewing performance in 2016, the Board  
noted with approval the traction now evidenced 
from management actions to reshape the Group 
and address the challenges brought about by  
the continuing low interest rate environment.
Greater focus on the trade and investment 
corridors where HSBC has strong market 
positioning generated solid market share gains  
and broader product penetration, particularly  
in servicing outbound China investment flows.  
This is recognised in the leading industry awards 
highlighted in Stuart Gulliver’s review.
2016 will be long remembered for its significant and 
largely unexpected economic and political events. 
These foreshadowed changes to the established 
geopolitical and economic relationships that have 
defined interactions within developed economies  
and between them and the rest of the world. The 
uncertainties created by such changes temporarily 
influenced investment activity and contributed  
to volatile financial market conditions. Against  
this background, HSBC’s performance in 2016  
was broadly satisfactory. Encouragingly, operating 
performance in the second half of the year was much 
stronger than expected and compared with the prior 
year, as businesses and financial markets responded 
more optimistically than predicted to these events. 
‘Greater focus on the trade and investment 
corridors where HSBC has strong market 
positioning generated solid market share gains 
and broader product penetration’ 
4 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report
Douglas Flint Group Chairman Significant investment in technology and process 
redesign is now not only delivering greater cost 
efficiency but also is poised to markedly enhance 
our ability to detect and prevent financial crime.  
In addition, 2017 will see the progressive launch  
of applications that will materially improve our 
customers’ digital experience, enhance their  
online security and bring greater personalisation  
of product offerings.
While there is still a long way to go, it was 
encouraging to see the significant improvement  
in performance across all business units in  
Mexico following the substantial repositioning  
of the Group’s operations there. This contributed  
to the Group’s success in replacing substantially  
all of the revenues given up through continuing 
run-off of legacy portfolios, risk mitigation in  
areas exposed to higher threat of financial crime 
and reduction in trading books.
Furthermore, HSBC is safer today from the threat 
of financial crime because of the investments  
we have been making in our Global Standards 
programme. The Board remains fully committed  
to our work in this area in 2017 and beyond.
Regulatory matters
It was extremely disappointing that the regulatory 
community was unable to achieve its targeted 
completion of the Basel III framework in January 
2017 on the consensual basis expected. It is now 
almost 10 years since the commencement of the 
global financial crisis and it is time to draw a line 
under further regulatory changes, particularly since 
there is no doubt that our industry is more strongly 
capitalised, better governed and more risk aware 
than it was a decade ago. Finalisation of the 
structure and calibration of the capital framework 
is crucial to give banks certainty over prospective 
capital allocations in support of lending and market 
activities. This is particularly important at this time 
when public policy is focusing on encouraging 
greater support for longer-dated assets, including 
infrastructure, and seeking to build out the capital 
markets of Europe and emerging markets. It is 
hugely important that regulators and policy makers 
now move as quickly as possible to finalise the 
capital framework in line with their stated 
commitment to deliver that framework without  
a significant, broad-based increase in capital 
requirements. Equally important is the avoidance  
of fragmentation in the global regulatory 
architecture as the new US administration 
reconsiders its participation in international 
regulatory forums. The best outcome would be 
early global agreement on unresolved issues, 
followed by an extended period of regulatory 
stability to allow familiarity and experience to be 
gained from what has been put in place. 
We made further progress in 2016 on completing 
the resolution planning required of us as a global 
systemically important bank (‘G-SIB’). This involved 
removing or mitigating residual constraints on the 
clarity of the Group’s core college of regulators’ 
approach to winding down the Group, should  
this ever be necessary. While clearly we do  
not envisage such circumstances as other  
than extremely remote, completion of a  
comprehensive resolution framework is a 
necessary pillar supporting HSBC’s ability to 
continue to operate as one of the world’s G-SIBs. 
Indeed, our strategy is built around maintaining  
the scale and the reach of our international 
network, which in 2016 again demonstrated its 
resilience and competitive advantages.
Tangible benefits accrue to our shareholders  
from the detailed work done with our regulators  
to demonstrate the strength of our capital position 
and the effectiveness of our resolution planning. 
Beyond supporting the maintenance of our 
dividend, in 2016 management’s efforts created 
the capacity to return capital to shareholders  
by way of a share buy-back and demonstrated 
justification for a reduction in the additional  
capital buffer applied to HSBC as a G-SIB.
UK referendum on EU membership
Not a great deal has changed since we reported  
at the interim stage, given that the UK has still to 
trigger its formal exit notice and so no negotiations 
have taken place. We welcomed, however, the 
additional clarity given to the Government’s 
position in the recent speech by the Prime Minister. 
The scale of the challenge of negotiating across the 
entire economic landscape, as well as addressing 
the legislative and other public policy adjustments 
that will be required, has become clearer. We 
believe there is now, as a consequence, a widely 
shared recognition that an implementation phase 
between the current position and the one that  
is ultimately negotiated will be necessary; we 
strongly endorse this view. 
Since the referendum we have focused on  
advising clients on the implications of leaving  
the EU for their businesses. We have also been 
responding to UK Government outreach seeking 
guidance on which elements of the current 
EU-based legal and regulatory arrangements  
it should focus on to preserve the essential role 
that financial markets based in the UK play in 
supporting European trade and investment activity.
For our own part, we have broadly all the licences 
and infrastructure needed to continue to support 
our clients once the UK leaves the EU. This largely 
derives from our position in France where we  
are the sixth largest bank with a full range of 
capabilities. Current contingency planning suggests 
we may need to relocate some 1,000 roles from 
London to Paris progressively over the next two 
years, depending on how negotiations develop.
Financial Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016 5
Strategic Report
Group Chairman’s Statement Board changes
We welcomed Jackson Tai to the Board on  
12 September last year. Jack brings a rare 
combination of hands-on banking expertise,  
top level governance experience and a deep 
knowledge of Asia and China. These attributes 
were accumulated in a 25-year career at  
J.P. Morgan & Co., both in the US and in Asia,  
and subsequently in senior roles at DBS, the 
leading Singapore-based regional banking group, 
where Jack latterly led its regional expansion as 
Vice Chairman and CEO. Jack was appointed a 
member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities 
Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
At the forthcoming AGM we shall bid farewell to 
our two longest-serving independent directors, 
namely, our Senior Independent Director, Rachel 
Lomax, and Sam Laidlaw. Rachel during her tenure 
has served on the Audit, Risk and Nomination 
Committees, and took responsibility as the first 
Chair of the Conduct & Values Committee to 
establish its terms of reference and its agenda. 
Sam served on, and latterly chaired, both the 
Remuneration and Nomination Committees. 
Together, Rachel and Sam have also been leading 
the process to manage my own succession. Their 
combined knowledge of regulatory and public 
policy, business leadership, corporate governance 
and consumer issues has been invaluable to the 
Board. On behalf of all shareholders, I want to 
thank them for their dedication and commitment.
Chairman succession
In the Circular inviting shareholders to the 2016 
AGM, I indicated that the process to find my own 
successor had been initiated with the intention of 
having this concluded during 2017. This process 
remains on track and an announcement will be 
made in due course.
Outlook
We have recently upgraded our forecasts for global 
economic growth reflecting the likelihood of a shift 
in US fiscal policy and a broader based cyclical 
recovery. As in recent years, incremental growth is 
expected to be driven by emerging economies in 
which HSBC is well represented. Risks to this 
central scenario, however, remain high. In 
particular, we highlight the threat of populism 
impacting policy choices in upcoming European 
elections, possible protectionist measures from the 
new US administration impacting global trade, 
uncertainties facing the UK and the EU as they 
enter Brexit negotiations, and the impact of a 
stronger dollar on emerging economies with  
high debt levels.
Douglas Flint 
Group Chairman 
21 February 2017
Countering these factors are signs of a cyclical 
upturn. Global purchasing manager indices are  
at their strongest for some time, the US economy 
looks robust and growth in China has held up  
well, defying the concerns reflected in the market 
retrenchment seen in the first quarter of 2016. 
Additionally, commodity prices have risen, 
reflecting optimism regarding growth in 
infrastructure investment as well as agreement 
reached to cut oil supply. These factors also imply 
reflation across the major economies and rising 
interest rates, which would benefit HSBC’s 
conservative balance sheet structure.
However, it is fair to reflect that the upgrades to 
economic growth we are now forecasting are 
largely the partial reversal of downgrades made 
last year when uncertainty was elevated as a result 
of the unexpected political events. Forecast global 
growth remains slightly lower than its long-term 
trend with risks largely to the downside.
We enter 2017 with the restructuring of the Group 
essentially completed, and with a strong capital 
position and a conservative balance sheet. We are 
gaining market share in areas of importance to 
HSBC as others scale back and our offerings 
become more competitive. Much of the heavy 
investment in reshaping the Group to improve 
productivity, embrace technological change and 
reinforce global standards of business conduct  
has been made. 
As ever, we owe a huge amount to our 235,000 
colleagues who have delivered this change at the 
same time as working tirelessly to meet customers’ 
expectations of them. On behalf of the Board,  
I want to thank them all for their dedication  
and commitment.
‘We enter 2017 with the restructuring  
of the Group essentially completed,  
and with a strong capital position  
and a conservative balance sheet’
6 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2016
Strategic Report | Group Chairman’s Statement
