 06
 Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
Chief Executive’s Review
Three of our four divisions grew revenue 
and profits in 2016, and with the 
restructuring complete, each business  
is well positioned for profit growth.
Paul Taaffe
Chief Executive Officer
Delivering our  
full potential
Huntsworth continued to make progress 
in 2016 with three of our four divisions 
growing both revenue and profitability, 
and the restructuring now complete.
Huntsworth Health was the outstanding 
performer again this year with double-
digit revenue and profit growth, and the 
organic development of new agency 
offerings within the consumer-focused 
Evoke Health. Health remains the key 
asset within the Group, representing over 
50% of our revenues, and will be the focus 
of our development in the coming year. 
Red continued to grow well in a very 
competitive and sluggish market, 
holding high margins and continuing 
to win awards for the high quality work 
it does for its blue chip client base. 
Citigate Dewe Rogerson has made a 
welcome return to revenue and profit 
growth while making a number of 
changes to expand into more markets.
21 %
Growth in headline profit  
before tax  07
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
 
2015 Foreign
exchange
impact & LFL 
adjustments
Huntsworth
Health
CDR Red Grayling Central 
costs
Interest &
proﬁt from
associates
2016
£13.3m £1.7m £2.0m £0.3 £0.1m £(3.2m) £1.7m £0.1m £16.0
Grayling’s continued disappointing 
performance led to a deeper 
restructuring. As noted earlier in the year, 
Grayling experienced challenging trading 
conditions, particularly in the US, which 
was the main focus of our final phase of 
restructuring, but also in the Middle East 
region, where it has suffered client losses 
and delays in client renewals. During the 
second half of the year we accelerated 
Grayling’s restructuring, removing 
unprofitable agencies and closing the 
state lobbying business in the US, and 
sold Hudson Sandler to management 
with the Group while retaining a 25% 
minority stake. Since the year-end 
Whiteboard Associates has also been 
sold to management, allowing Grayling 
US to focus on its PtR offering.
Alongside these divestments, we 
have looked to reduce the cost base 
of each business, including central 
overhead, by redeploying resources, 
consolidating the property portfolio 
further, closing offices where necessary 
and restructuring others to align them 
to market needs. 2016 saw restructuring 
costs of £1.6 million (2015: £3.3 million) 
as we completed the process we started 
in mid-2015. We have completed the 
major restructuring and have now 
positioned each of our businesses for 
profit growth in 2017 and beyond.
Group performance overview
The Group’s performance this year 
primarily reflects a combination of 
strong growth from Huntsworth Health, 
underperformance from Grayling, 
and the impact of a favourable move 
in exchange rates. The following 
bridge shows the key movements in 
headline profits before tax in 2016:
 
The devaluation of Sterling against our 
main trading currencies over the course 
of 2016, particularly since the UK’s 
decision to leave the EU, has generated 
a translational gain of £2.4 million. This 
has been offset by an incremental loss 
of £0.6 million on FX forward contracts. 
Losses from discontinued operations also 
increased by £0.1 million. Together, these 
factors left like-for-like profits up  
£1.7 million.
On a like-for-like basis, Huntsworth 
Health has generated an additional 
£2.0 million of profits, driven by strong 
revenue growth, particularly in the US. 
In addition, central costs reduced by 
£1.7 million, reflecting a restructuring of 
central functions and tighter control over 
discretionary expenditure. These gains, 
together with an additional £0.4 million 
of profits from CDR and Red, were offset 
by a £3.2 million decrease in profits from 
Grayling. This has been driven primarily 
by the META region where trading has 
been impacted by the loss of a major 
client and the ending of a key project, and 
the US where actions have been taken to 
transition the business to a more stable 
and profitable client base.
Our strategy
Accelerate growth 
through a focus on the 
health sector, including 
M&A
_
Extend and develop 
new capabilities  
and services
_
Build capacity for 
Grayling to drive  
organic revenue  
and profit growth
_ 08
 Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
How we 
generate value
• Client relationships
• Specialist skills
• International portfolio
Returns 
generated
• Revenue growth
• Proﬁt growth
• Cash conversion
Returns are 
reinvested
• Strategic acquisitions
• Dividends to shareholders
• Organic growth
Our network of 
specialist agencies
• Healthcare communications
• Public relations
Talent
Chief Executive’s Review continued
The Group’s income statement reflects 
these trends. Revenues were £180.1 
million in 2016 (2015: £168.4 million), 
with favourable currency movements 
contributing £14.1 million to revenue. 
On a like-for-like basis, revenues grew 
by 1%, reflecting strong growth from 
Huntsworth Health offset by decreases 
in Grayling. Headline profit before tax 
was £16.0 million, an increase of 21%. 
Operating losses were £14.5 million 
(2015: loss of £37.8 million), with much 
of the improvement attributable to a 
lower goodwill impairment charge. 
The following table reconciles statutory 
to headline profits:
£’m 2016 2015
Operating loss (14.5) (37.8)
Goodwill impairment 30.5 48.8
Impairment of software 
development costs 0.2 0.6
Amortisation of 
intangible assets 0.9 0.8
Restructuring costs 1.6 3.3
Transaction related credit (0.7) (0.4)
Operating profit before 
highlighted items 18.0 15.3
Margin 10% 9%
Interest (2.0) (2.0)
Headline profit before tax 16.0 13.3
The Group’s effective tax rate has 
increased to 30% (2015: 27%) of headline 
profits as the continued growth of 
Huntsworth Health increases the 
proportion of the Group’s profits that 
arise in the USA. Before highlighted items, 
diluted earnings per share is 3.4p (2015: 
3.0p), up 13%. After highlighted items, 
diluted loss per share is 5.6p (2015: 12.3p).
Divisional performance overview
Huntsworth Health
Huntsworth Health is the Group’s largest 
division by both revenue and profit. 
It has a strong portfolio of specialist 
healthcare communications agencies 
that have continued to perform well 
above industry averages, with double-
digit revenue and operating profit 
growth, and strong operating margins.
Divisional revenues in 2016 were £90.8 
million (2015: £72.3 million), up 14% on 
Our business model
Huntsworth provides healthcare communications and public relations services 
through a network of specialist agencies.  09
Strategic Report
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
a like-for-like basis. Operating profits 
were £18.3 million (2015: £13.8 million), 
representing operating profit growth of 
33% and an operating margin of 20% 
(2015: 19%).
Growth continues to be driven mainly 
by the US market where our full service 
digital consumer agency, Evoke Health, 
grew like-for-like revenues by 12%, 
strategic medical agency, ApotheCom, 
grew like-for-like revenues by 19%, and PR 
agency, Tonic Life Communications, grew 
like-for-like revenues by 15%. Huntsworth 
Health’s smaller brands – Audacity, Axiom 
and Nitrogen – experienced challenging 
trading conditions with like-for-like 
revenues down 13%. Actions have been 
taken to reduce the cost base of these 
units and they are on track to deliver 
an improved performance in 2017.
During the year Huntsworth Health 
invested in new organic growth 
opportunities with a new Evoke Health 
office in Los Angeles and a new 
strategic consulting agency, Traverse 
Health Strategy. FIRSTHAND, the 
digitally-driven, full service, marketing 
communications agency which opened in 
late 2015, also made a solid contribution 
to the results. Huntsworth Health will 
continue to invest in areas which offer the 
opportunity to accelerate its growth and 
even better meet the needs of its clients.
All agencies in Huntsworth Health have 
good momentum going into 2017 with a 
number of recent significant client wins. 
As such the division has the foundations 
for another year of strong revenue and 
operating profit growth in 2017.
Grayling
Grayling revenues fell 15%, or 17% on a l 
ike-for-like basis, to £53.9 million, resulting 
in a loss of £0.8 million (2015: profit of 
£2.6 million). 2016 has seen a continuation 
of the restructuring programme begun in 
2015, with the closure or disposal of loss-
making operations, and the reduction of 
the cost base.
The overall result masks a varied 
performance between regions. 
Continental Europe remains the strongest 
and most profitable part of the division, 
although revenues fell by 6% on a like-
for-like basis in 2016 reflecting difficult 
economic conditions. Nevertheless, 
margins broadly held up on 2015 levels 
and actions have been taken to deal with 
the underperforming operations within 
the region, including the closure of the 
Swedish office at the end of 2016.
In the UK, the benefits of the 
restructure in late 2015 have become 
apparent in the second half of 2016. 
Nevertheless, the region experienced 
tough trading over the course of the 
year with revenues down 23% on a 
like-for-like basis. In October 2016 
the Group completed the disposal 
of 75% of Hudson Sandler, its niche 
financial PR business, to management. 
The Group’s remaining stake in the 
associate business is expected to 
be earnings enhancing in 2017.
The META region has experienced a 
difficult trading year with the loss of a 
major client and the end of one of its 
biggest projects, which have impacted 
on its profitability. Changes made 
should drive more profitability in 2017. 
The US business underwent a transitional 
year, as it exited from its state and local 
lobbying activities. As part of this, in 
January 2017 the Group completed 
the disposal of Whiteboard Advisors, a 
strategic communications consultancy, to 
management, for an initial consideration 
of $2.5 million. In the future, the division 
will be focused on higher value PR 
budgets, digital marketing and branding 
opportunities, all of which are expected 
to help the region return to growth.
2016 has been a difficult year for Grayling, 
but Q4 saw revenues stabilise, and with 
the actions taken over the past twelve 
months the division is in a good position 
to return to profitability in 2017.
Citigate Dewe Rogerson
CDR revenues in 2016 were £22.1 million 
(2015: £20.0 million), representing like-
for-like growth of 4%. Operating profits 
were £3.6 million (2015: £3.1 million), 
representing a margin of 16% (2015: 15%). 
Within this overall result, performance 
has varied between regions in 2016. 
The Asian business, based primarily in 
Hong Kong and Singapore, continued to 
produce a strong performance in a tough 
marketplace with like-for-like revenues up 
1%. Margins also rose by 5% as the division 
focused on its operational efficiency.
Continental Europe faced tough 
comparatives after strong transaction 
revenues in the Netherlands in 
2015, leaving like-for-like revenues 
across the region down 2%. 
Nevertheless, continental Europe 
maintained its strong margins.
In the UK, CDR has invested in new 
talent and has continued to build on 
sector specialisms. As part of this, it 
established a presence in New York, 
which adds to its international reach 
and allows it access to the US market. 
The benefits of these investments are 
starting to be seen, despite continued 
intense price competition and lower 
volumes of transaction mandates. Overall, 
the UK/US business produced like-for-
like revenues up 12%, on fractionally 
lower margins, which will improve as 
the staff in which we have recently 
invested reach their full potential.
Red
Red performed strongly in 2016 in 
what remains a highly competitive 
environment, and remains a market-
leading PR business in the UK.  
Revenues were £13.3 million (2015:  
£12.8 million) representing growth of  
4%. Operating profits were £2.7 million 
(2015: £2.6 million), representing a margin 
of 20% (2015: 20%).
Highlights in 2016 included a major 
award-winning, digital content-based 
campaign for Boots Opticians which 
saw the agency build a world-first 
children’s eye-test book for parents. 
Other consumer campaigns in the 
year included stand-out work for 
McDonald’s nationwide restaurant 
makeover programme and a ‘Welcome 
to Heathrow’ online video launch. 
New clients to the agency included 
Robinson’s soft drinks, Spotify, Gumtree 
and Trainline. In addition, the agency’s 
outstanding talent development was 
recognised with its second Media 
Employer of the Year award. 
Growth momentum and organic 
investment plans give encouragement 
for continued improvements in 2017. 
Group Outlook
The Group is now positioned for 
continued growth and 2017 has started 
well. Huntsworth Health continues to 
grow strongly on the back of multiple 
client wins, Grayling, Red and CDR are 
making positive progress, and together 
with favourable exchange rates, the 
outlook for 2017 is positive. 
Paul Taaffe
20 March 2017  Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
10
Investing in 
Innovative 
Businesses and 
Inspirational T alent
Huntsworth Health invests in innovative healthcare 
communications businesses and the talent that 
sets those businesses apart from their 
competitors. 
Huntsworth Health is a team of passionate communications professionals 
that believe in making a difference in health and wellbeing by engaging 
audiences in experiences that alter perception to precipitate positive 
behavioural change. Huntsworth Health’s agencies are driven by strategy 
derived from actionable human insights. We use those insights to create 
emotionally engaging stories and content that communicates the true 
value of our client’s brands.
We make healthcare communications ‘human’ through a patient-centric lens.
Agile, Nimble, Inquisitive, and Driven by Values 
Huntsworth Health is a group of best-in-class boutique agencies with 
science, medicine, innovation, creativity, and technology as their common 
DNA. While each agency is focused on the specific needs of their clients, 
we are agile and nimble and can create an integrated team to address 
challenges that require a multidisciplinary solution. Our solutions-focused 
teams work seamlessly together to deliver solutions that build higher 
brand value for our client’s brands. 
£90.8m
Revenue
20.1 %
Operating margin
51 %
Group revenue Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
 11
Strategic Report
Our Approach 
• Exceptional brands are built from 
exceptional strategies. Data that 
informs our understanding of the 
world in which individuals will become 
immersed in a brand are critical to 
the strategic process. We develop 
deep insights into individual customer 
culture, values, norms and behaviour 
so that we understand how your 
customers will engage physically and 
emotionally with your brand.
• Creativity is not a commodity. It’s a 
unique intellectual process driven 
by talent and fuelled by freedom of 
thought. Creativity should not be 
stifled by technology—we embrace 
the new and exciting creative 
opportunities that technology is 
enabling us to leverage into compelling 
brand experiences and we thrive on 
the creative process.
• Technology is enabling health and 
science in a very broad way. We see 
technology driving two very critical 
aspects of health and science brand 
communications:
 – The diagnosis and management 
of disease on an individual patient 
level.
 – Immersing healthcare professionals, 
patients, and consumers in 
engaging content that informs, 
educates, and ultimately drives 
behavioural change.
 – A forum for consumers, patients, 
and healthcare providers to share 
opinions, ideas, and concerns about 
health issues. 
Genepeeks:  
Brand refresh, new website, and marketing collateral
Creating compelling stories
Our Vision
We believe that health and wellness 
is fundamental to being human, that 
behavioural change requires an intimate 
understanding of human emotion and 
the perceptions/beliefs that drive human 
behaviour, and that improving health and 
wellness is a human responsibility.
Our Values
We value personal and professional 
integrity, encourage empathy for one 
another, our clients, and the customers 
they serve, and we believe that personal 
accountability is the highest form of 
respect—for one’s self and for others.
Aurix:  
Branding, online strategy, and sales/marketing collateral
Our brands  Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
12
Creating 
Advantage
Grayling is a global integrated communications 
network, covering public relations and public 
affairs (with embedded digital capabilities). 
While ‘traditional PR’ remains at the heart of many of the agency’s 
briefs, the Company also provides a range of services, from social media 
management and digital marketing, to brand development and design, 
and stakeholder engagement to advertising. 
In 2016, Grayling secured a number of major new clients, including 
elevator company, Otis, energy provider, NRG, and consumer tech 
company, VAIO in the US; Lloyds Banking Group, Virgin Trains and 
construction group, L&Q in the UK; Meydan Group in the Middle East; 
the Kenya Bankers Association in Africa; while in continental Europe we 
have been successful at helping clients navigate multiple markets, as well 
as winning new mandates from the likes of flydubai, logistics company, 
Waberer’s, sports apparel company, UnderArmour, international 
healthcare group, BUPA, and restaurant operator, AmRest. 
£53.9m
Revenue
(1.4) %
Operating margin
30%
Group revenue Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
 13
Strategic Report
2016 also saw Grayling being recognised 
for great client work with more than 40 
industry awards, for work on behalf of 
clients including PayPal, Kenya’s Ministry 
of Tourism, Faraday Future, the Croatian 
National Tourist Board, Marks & Spencer, 
Grant Thornton, Hilton Worldwide, Novo 
Nordisk, and Avis Budget Group. Grayling 
was named Consultancy of the Year at 
both the European and UK Public Affairs 
Awards, and Agency of the Year (Eastern 
Europe) by Holmes Report. In addition 
to these wins, Grayling was shortlisted 
for a further 50 awards, for the agency’s 
work with clients from Kleenex (Kimberly 
Clark) in the Middle East, to Skype and 
Pokerstars in Europe. 
Our approach
Grayling aims to create measurable 
advantage for its clients, through 
smart and innovative solutions that 
are rapidly scalable and that deliver 
against organisational needs.
With on-call senior counsel, 
powerful content, and unrivalled 
connections, the company helps 
its clients to engage, adapt and 
evolve in fast-changing landscapes, 
building brand resilience and 
creating measurable advantage.
Our brands
Launched in 2016, The Advantage Series is Grayling’s 
ongoing content program that examines the 
major reputational, regulatory and communication 
challenges faced by organisations of all sizes, across 
industry sectors.
Grayling’s annual trends analysis helps clients stay 
one step ahead by anticipating and capitalising on 
future trends. Our approach
Citigate Dewe Rogerson’s approach 
is to help clients achieve their 
business objectives by providing 
media relations, investor relations, 
crisis communications, research 
and analysis, public policy, creative 
consumer campaigns and digital 
and social expertise. Citigate 
Dewe Rogerson understands 
not only how markets operate 
but how opinion is formed and 
how it can be influenced. Citigate 
Dewe Rogerson is one of the most 
respected names in communications. 
Experts in the fields in which it 
operates, Citigate Dewe Rogerson 
combines the expertise of bankers, 
fund managers, in-house investor 
relations, former journalists 
and creative communications 
professionals as well as sector and 
transaction specialists. Citigate Dewe 
Rogerson’s business and perspective 
are international and it serves over 
500 clients, from new start-ups to 
some of the world’s largest listed 
companies, governments and other 
organisations. 
 Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
14
Creating value for 
their clients
Citigate Dewe Rogerson is an international financial and corporate 
public relations consultancy, which provides seamless communication 
consultancy across the world’s business centres, with a particular 
focus on major cross-border financial transactions and large  
multi-nationals looking to broaden their global footprint.
Headquartered in London, Citigate Dewe Rogerson’s wholly-owned 
offices span continental Europe, the US and Asia, working together with 
trusted affiliates and partners across the rest of the world. The business 
addresses all major sectors including financial services, technology, 
professional services, consumer brands, oil & gas, retail, distribution & 
logistics, healthcare, public sector, manufacturing and aviation.
During 2016 CDR won a number of significant new client mandates 
including Accor Hotels, Gocompare.com Group and MAXIS Global Benefits 
Network in the UK. CDR also provided financial public relations support to 
the UK Government’s UKGI Department of Education for the securitisation 
and sale of income contingent repayment student loans. CDR France 
completed 2 IPOs in the year for Française de l’Energie and NextStage 
and worked on a dual track for Medipole, an IPO project which ended 
in a trade sale to Elsan, one of its competitors. In addition, CDR France 
managed the buyout of Foncière de Paris by Eurosic against the hostile 
takeover bid of Gecina. In Greater China, new client mandates included 
Anta Sports Products Limited, China’s biggest sportswear company by 
market cap, China Aircraft Leasing Company Ltd, a full value-chain aircraft 
solutions provider and OKLink, a leading global settlement network built 
on blockchain technology. CDR Singapore completed the IPO of Frasers 
Logistics and Industrial Trust – the largest IPO in Singapore in 3 years. Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
 15
 Strategic Report
Our sectors
— Cleantech 
— Consumer 
— Healthcare 
— Investment Management 
— Pensions & Insurance 
— Private Equity 
— Public Sector 
— Retail 
— Support Services 
— Transport & Infrastructure 
— Utilities
— Construction 
— Financial Services 
A Global Network
Citigate Dewe Rogerson operates in:
— London
— Manchester
— Amsterdam
— New York
— Paris
— Brussels
— Moscow
— Hong Kong
— Beijing
— Shanghai
— Singapore
— Mumbai
£22.1 m
Revenue
12 %
Group revenue
16.2 %
Operating margin
— Industrials 
— Natural Resources 
— Life Sciences 
— Professional Services 
— Real Estate 
— Retail Banking 
— Technology, Media & Telecoms 
— Travel & Leisure   Huntsworth plc
 Annual Report 2016
16
Provoking 
thought, 
provoking action 
Red Consultancy is a strategic communications 
consultancy offering PR, digital and content 
expertise. The agency develops and manages 
campaigns, runs major press offices and steers 
brands and businesses through engagement with 
media, consumers, customers, stakeholders and 
internal audiences within the UK and beyond. 
From its Soho base, Red Consultancy’s offer of strategic counsel  
with flair and creativity is at the heart of its core appeal for clients.  
The agency’s ethos of ‘work hard/play nice’ is central to building  
long-term relationships.
The agency’s services span media relations programmes aimed at 
building awareness to targeted experiential events and from launches  
to repositioning. Campaigns are planned around a complete spectrum of 
activity reflecting the increased demand for integrated communications 
which see traditional media relations combined with the development of 
digital assets backed by targeted media spend. 
Red Consultancy’s client portfolio includes McDonald’s, Johnson & 
Johnson, Emirates, Activision, Samsung, Adobe, Nestle and Boots. 
In the last year, the agency has been 
appointed by further high-profile brands 
including Aldi, Trainline, Robinson’s, 
Gumtree and the Coca-Cola London Eye.
The agency has won over 100 industry 
awards for its work and last year added  
a further three: the PRCA National Award 
for Digital and New Media, the In2 Sabre 
Award for Content Creation and the 
PRMoment Award for FMCG Marketing 
Communications Campaign of the Year. 
It was also named Media Employer of the 
Year in 2016. 
The agency’s social media arm, Shiny 
Red, is the longest standing dedicated 
offer of its kind in the UK. 
Red Consultancy expanded its digital 
service in 2016 into a full end-to-end 
digital offering to cater for the increased 
demand for integrated communications 
and development of digital assets. Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Other Information
Huntsworth plc
Annual Report 2016
 17
 Strategic Report
£13.3 m
Revenue
20.3%
Operating margin
7 %
Group revenue
Our approach
Red Consultancy 
offers creative 
colour and decisive 
action throughout 
its thinking and 
strategy work. 
Clients say the 
agency adds value by seeing the 
big picture and always making 
a difference with smart comms 
activities – whether that’s building 
awareness, affinity or improving 
reputation to lead to increased sales, 
visits, sign-ups etc. 
Our people
The agency 
employs around 
130 people 
in its Soho 
office, from 
talented PR and 
social media 
consultants to creative designers 
and digital build experts. It’s a 
hard-working, straight-talking, 
no-politics, friendly culture where 
successes are always shared. 
Our brands
Shiny Red is the agency’s specialist team which 
lives, creates and drives full service social media 
and digital marketing solutions.
Working hard to deliver strong results for clients 
is balanced by fantastic career development 
opportunities and benefits. Red Consultancy won 
the Media Employer of the Year Award in 2016.
Our Services
Our main services are:
• Consumer
• Corporate
• Technology
• Healthcare
• Digital
• Creative services
