 Chairman’s Statement
“I continue to believe 
that the Group is well 
prepared to benefit from 
the continuing demand 
for new housing.”
I am pleased to report another good 
set of results, which once again 
demonstrate the strength of the 
Group’s business model and the 
strategy outlined last year. 
The Group is a family of brands of building 
products with a diversified range of clay 
and concrete products. We are a leading 
manufacturer of clay bricks and concrete 
products with operations in both the UK 
and the US.
The UK Referendum on EU membership 
added some uncertainty to the UK market 
during the year, but we continue to believe 
firmly in the fundamentals which exist 
in that market and have maintained 
our strategy.
In 2016, the UK brick business 
experienced a marginal increase in 
volumes over the full year after lower 
first half volumes, primarily as a result 
of industry‑wide destocking within the 
builders’ merchant and distributor supply 
chain. This muted start to UK brick sales 
helped to emphasise the significant 
progress made in our concrete businesses 
whilst the strong performance of our US 
operations, partially due to the mild 
weather at the beginning of 2016, further 
demonstrated that we are much more 
than a UK brick manufacturer. 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
04
Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016 The market and our strategy
Housing market fundamentals in both 
of our key geographies remain positive, 
and I continue to believe that the Group 
is well prepared to benefit from the 
continuing demand for new housing. 
During 2016, the Group has continued 
its strategy of growth through investment 
and product innovation, together with 
expansion of its existing product portfolios, 
which have been at the heart of its 
success over many years. 
The construction of our new brick plant 
in Leicestershire continues at pace and 
is expected to be commissioned in the 
second half of 2017 , whilst our new roof tile 
manufacturing plant at Leighton Buzzard 
became operational in the second half of 
2016 in line with our plans.
Our strategy is discussed in more detail 
on pages 1 1 to 17 .
Our results
Revenue for the year ending 31 December 
2016 was £435 million and the profit after 
taxation for the year was £90 million with 
EPS of 22.3 pence. Our adjusted results 
saw an adjusted EBITDA of £1 12 million.
We have proposed a final dividend of 
5.3 pence per share, which is in line with 
our dividend policy of distributing 40 to 
50% of our adjusted profit after tax over 
a business cycle.
Board, corporate 
governance and our 
employees
I am proud of the great strides we made 
during 2016 in establishing robust 
governance arrangements within the 
Group. In February 2016, we appointed 
Tracey Graham and Lynn Minella to the 
Board. Both joined the Board’s 
Remuneration Committee, Audit 
Committee and Nomination Committee, 
and Lynn became Chair of the 
Remuneration Committee. In January 2017 , 
Justin Read also joined our Board as a 
Non‑ Executive Director. I am delighted to 
welcome all three to the Board. Together 
they bring a wealth of experience that will 
be of great benefit to Ibstock as we 
continue to develop our business.
The addition of two new Non‑ Executive 
Directors is just one area in which we 
have progressed along our corporate 
governance journey in 2016. I am pleased 
to present a significantly increased level 
of compliance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code for 2016, as described 
more fully on pages 40 to 46.
Our business is run by an extremely 
experienced management team – Wayne 
Sheppard, Chief Executive Officer and 
Kevin Sims, Chief Financial Officer, have 
a combined experience of over 50 years 
within the Building Products market. 
The performance of the business, and our 
continued success, even during uncertain 
times, is down to the hard work of all of 
our employees across the Group. I wish to 
thank all of our colleagues for their excellent 
work over this period. 
Governance 
pages 40 to 76
40
Outlook
Looking back, the past year proved to 
be one of considerable change with the 
Referendum on European Union (“EU”) 
membership in the UK and Presidential 
Election in the US. Our businesses 
navigated these uncertainties very 
effectively and I am confident that they 
will continue to do so as the full impacts 
of these major geopolitical events unfold 
over the next few years. 
Forecasts for our key markets both in 
UK and US remain positive and we have 
invested in the UK to improve efficiency 
and meet increased demand. The 
fundamentals supporting demand for our 
products in UK remain unchanged and 
indeed the current government continues 
to demonstrate its commitment to delivering 
increased home building. In the US we 
have sufficient capacity to accommodate 
forecast increases in our key markets. 
Following the debt refinancing and UK 
pension closure projects combined with 
positive market fundamentals and the 
strength and depth of our management 
teams, I remain confident that Ibstock 
will continue to deliver from the strong 
foundations laid in 2016 and I look to 
the future with confidence. 
Jamie Pike 
Non‑ Executive Chairman 
7 March 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
05
