 4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 5
Chairman’s Statement
The Group’s profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items was £123.7 million for the year to 31 March 2003 compared with
£89.1 million for the previous year. Shareholders’ funds at 31 March
2003 were £254.8 million, up £66.3 million.
This was another extremely good performance
from ICAP with almost all products and
markets providing a strong contribution 
to the overall result. Markets have shown
good growth particularly those for medium
term interest rate derivatives and credit.
ICAP’s total return to shareholders since 
the merger between Garban and Intercapital
in September 1999 has been 367%. 
In 2002 our shares outperformed the FTSE
350 by 40%. This reflects our ability to
produce good results in a highly competitive
environment. 
The directors recommend a final dividend 
of 23 pence per share to be paid on 
29 August 2003 to shareholders on the
register on 1 August 2003 making total
dividends of 30p per share for the year. 
The increase of 25% is consistent with our
progressive approach to the dividend and
our confidence in the cash generative
nature of the business.
Our interdealer broking business benefits from
significant market share and economies of
scale. In those markets where we do not have
a prominent market share, we have formed
joint venture and associate companies with
appropriate partners to access liquidity. In
2002, we estimate that the global interdealer
broker market for OTC derivatives, fixed
income securities, money market products,
foreign exchange, energy, credit and equity
derivatives increased by circa 10% to be 
worth approximately $4.3 billion in revenue.
ICAP continued to be the global leader with
a 23% share of the market, a position that
expanded during 2002 through organic
growth and acquisitions of First Brokers and
APB. The acquisition towards the end of the
year of the majority of Nittan Capital’s voice
broking operations in Asia has contributed
to ICAP’s global market share. 
We have been consistent in our strategy
over the past several years and will remain
on the same path; growing our business –
both voice and electronic – organically and
through acquisition. We will continue to take
advantage of these opportunities and expect
to see further consolidation in our sector. 
After the end of the financial year we completed
the acquisition of several BrokerTec fixed
income securities businesses. The initial
consideration involved the issue of 11,989,509
new ICAP shares. The majority of these
shares are held by the banks and investment
banks that were shareholders in BrokerTec
Global L.L.C. This is a significant and very
welcome addition of some of our largest
customers to our shareholder base.
Two of our non-executive directors, John
Nixon and Declan Kelly, resigned from the
board in January 2003. Both had previously
been members of the Intercapital board and 
I would like to thank them both for their
contribution to the success of ICAP. John,
using his broad industry experience, has
taken up the role of Director of Strategy for
ICAP based in the US.
By donating the proceeds of one day’s
broking revenue on 11 December 2002,
ICAP raised £3.3 million for charities around
the world. Over the past ten years, ICAP has
raised more than £13.3 million for a variety
of charities and during this time we have
been able to help many people. I would like
to thank ICAP’s staff and customers for their
enthusiasm and generosity.
Staff numbers have increased from 2,200 
to 2,800, largely as a result of the businesses
we have acquired. Competition for quality
staff remains high but our staff turnover has
been very low. I would like to thank all our
staff again for the tremendous effort that
they have made this past year.
As we look to the year ahead, people are just
one source of justified confidence. We have
a clear business strategy. Given our strengths
and the continuing development of our markets,
we expect to continue to grow. The outlook
for our company is very positive.
Charles Gregson
Chairman ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 7
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review
ICAP has had another outstanding year with the business again
increasing market share as well as the successful completion of
a number of acquisitions. Our turnover has grown faster than costs
resulting in further improvement in our operating margins – already
much higher than our peers – demonstrating the importance of cost
control and the beneficial economies of scale.
During the past year market volumes have
been driven upwards by volatility in medium
term interest rates even though official short
term rates have been remarkably stable.
Additionally, considerable uncertainty 
in corporate credit has substantially boosted
our credit derivatives and corporate bond
businesses. The credit default market has
become one of the major new product areas
in the past few years and we are now firmly
established as the number two broker. We
expect credit derivative volumes to grow steeply.
Another new area for the Group has been
the emergence of an active market in inflation
derivatives. We are the leading broker in this
new field and anticipate the development
over the next few years of a specialist market
in economic derivatives. ICAP continues to be a
leader in innovation and product development
in the wholesale financial markets with this
and several other initiatives. 
The BrokerTec acquisition
After almost two years of negotiations our
acquisition of BrokerTec’s fixed income
securities businesses was completed on 
7 May 2003. This is truly a major strategic
step forward that creates the right combination
of the world’s largest interdealer voice broker
and the world’s leading electronic broker 
of fixed income securities. ICAP now has
daily transaction volumes in excess of 
$500 billion – of which 40% is electronic. 
No competitor has a position in voice 
and electronic broking that is comparable.
This acquisition was the subject of an extensive
review by the US Department of Justice,
which requested certain changes to the initial
agreements between ICAP and BrokerTec 
as announced on 16 January 2003. Overall
those changes are not expected to have any
material financial effect on the acquisition,
which is anticipated to be broadly earnings
neutral in the year ending 31 March 2004,
but earnings enhancing thereafter.
With daily volumes of around $200 billion,
BrokerTec will become the backbone of
ICAP’s Electronic Broking division. We expect
that there will be significant synergies with
our existing platform, ETC, as well as offering
customers improved access and liquidity
across a wide range of fixed income markets
as our platforms are integrated. During the
integration period our customers will
continue to have uninterrupted access 
to electronic broking of BrokerTec and ETC
products together with voice broking of all
other products. By September 2003, using 
a combination of our technologies, we will
have an integrated, hybrid voice and electronic
broking platform with proven functionality
and low operating costs. We expect to
improve returns through the rationalisation
of operations including networking, removal
of duplicated support costs and the
integration of technology development. 
Strategy
The BrokerTec acquisition creates a uniquely
competitive and independent platform
trading in a wide range of securities in the
world’s fixed income markets. As demand
for electronic broking has grown, ICAP’s
strategy has been to develop its capabilities
by bringing together liquidity from both voice
and electronic broking. We believe that the
strength of our business now rests firmly
upon having the optimum combination 
of voice and electronic broking with a hybrid
service. This is a very powerful proposition.
There is no question that electronic broking
is changing the nature of our industry
inexorably and that the BrokerTec acquisition
gives us an outstanding opportunity to
accelerate the development of the business
and improve returns.
In our opinion the consolidation in the
interdealer broking industry will continue 
in both the voice and electronic markets.
Although some of our competitors have
particular strengths in either voice or
electronic broking, none can field such
a strong combination in both. Growth will
come from our focus on building market
share organically and, where appropriate,
through selective acquisition.
The markets in which we operate are
becoming increasingly integrated. Our
customers expect to find liquidity in each
individual market but additionally they also
expect to trade across markets. For several
years customers have traded the “spread”
between products and increasingly they
expect to make “contingent” trades that
depend on the alignment of prices in several
markets before deals can be completed. 
We are developing and delivering technology 
to make these trades possible. ICAP’s liquidity
in a broad range of benchmark derivative
and cash markets gives us a big competitive
advantage and is required to deliver true
cross market trading to customers. 
There is a natural focus on market share
between the interdealer brokers and,
following the BrokerTec acquisition, ICAP
has a global market share of about 25%,
50% more than our nearest competitor.
However in many markets the brokers face
another challenge, banks trading directly
with each other. A key strategic opportunity
for ICAP is to create faster, more transparent,
more efficient broking services using
technology to constantly enlarge our available
market and make it more economic for
banks to trade through us rather than direct.
Finally we have the issue of connectivity. 
Put simply, this is the level of integration
between ICAP’s networks and systems and
our customers’ networks and systems. It is
complex, difficult, time consuming and quite
expensive. The further that we can extend
this connectivity, the more quickly and easily 
we can deliver new products and more
efficient straight-through-processing (STP)
through this electronic pipeline. The BrokerTec
acquisition significantly improves our
connectivity with our largest customers and
we will combine this with our existing
infrastructure. Few of our competitors have
the appetite to invest in creating these levels
of integration: we have the scale and critical
mass to do so.
Review of operations
Overall profit
(1)
from securities broking rose
sharply from £28.5 million to £47.2 million 
as the result of improvements in our margins,
recovery following the loss of our offices in
the World Trade Center, the acquisition 
of First Brokers and good underlying market
activity. In our derivatives and money broking
businesses, it was another good year with
profit
(1)
of £56.9 million, slightly above the
previous year. The Group’s interest rate
derivative and options broking activities were
very successful, but with less pronounced
growth in some of the Group’s traditional
money broking businesses.
Americas After twelve months in temporary
accommodation we moved our New York
businesses into new headquarters in New
Jersey in November 2002. The rise in
profit
(1)
in the year ended 31 March 2003 
to £34.8 million from £16.1 million was 
the result of several factors, including:
• the restoration of our broking operations
after the loss of our World Trade Center
offices in 2001;
• moves in medium-term interest rates
which buoyed our derivatives and fixed
income businesses – US treasuries and
mortgages were particularly active; 
• First Brokers, the US corporate bonds
business that we acquired in April 2002,
exceeded expectations with a surge in
turnover and profitability. This was propelled
by increasing market share coupled with 
a significant rise in secondary market
activity for corporate bonds;
ICAP Senior Commercial Management
Chief Operating Officer
David Gelber
Americas
Ron Purpora and Doug Rhoten
Europe and Africa
George MacDonald, David Casterton,
Paul McMenemy and Gary Smith
Asia Pacific
Bryan Massey and Mark Webster
Electronic Broking
Steve McDermott, Hal Hinkle and
Garry Jones
Information Services
John Barber
(1)
profit before tax, interest, exceptional items but after
charging goodwill amortisation
