 “We therefore 
look forward to 
the future with 
optimism from the 
good foundations 
laid in 2016.”
2016 performance
Even though the year was marked by 
unpredictable market conditions, the 
Group made good headway in 2016. 
Revenue increased by 5%
1
 to £435 million 
and adjusted EBITDA increased to 
£1 12 million (2015: £107 million). Despite 
the uncertainty arising from events such 
as the UK’s EU Referendum and the US 
Presidential Election, the Group has 
delivered a result ahead of the prior year. 
We have improved our safety record, we’ve 
made excellent progress with our major 
projects, successfully implemented new 
IT systems in the US and put alternative 
pension arrangements in place in the 
UK, which will reduce the variability of 
the Scheme. 
1 – All movements compare to the 12-month 
trading result for the year ended 31 December 2015. 
A reconciliation to statutory results is included in Note 3 
to the Group consolidated financial statements.
UK segment
Our UK segment experienced unforeseen 
market conditions during 2016. Whilst the 
new housing developer market showed 
further growth in 2016, destocking by 
builders’ merchants held back brick sales 
volumes in the first half. Furthermore, in the 
weeks approaching the EU Referendum, 
we saw a slow down in sales across each of 
our UK businesses. However, within a month 
of the EU Referendum, sales volumes for 
all our UK businesses were comparable to 
the prior year and during the remaining 
summer months, volumes continued to 
track in line with the prior year before 
accelerating as the year drew to a close. 
We announced in March that destocking 
was experienced within our UK brick 
business as merchant demand and supply 
rebalanced at new higher activity levels. 
As brick availability returned to normal 
levels, as industry production recovered 
from the financial crisis, merchant stockists 
were able to service their customers whilst 
keeping lower inventory levels and the 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
08
Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Statement Our five key strengths
 Market leader
Our market-leading businesses will 
enable us to benefit from the expected 
growth in demand in the UK and our 
regional markets within the US.
 Scale
We have 28 clay and 15 concrete plants 
throughout the UK and US manufacturing 
over 500 varieties of bricks coupled with 
ownership of valuable long-term 
clay reserves.
 n 43 manufacturing sites; 33 UK 
sites and 10 US sites.
 n Over 150 million tonnes of 
clay reserves.
 n Realisable production capacity 
of 1.2 billion bricks per annum.
  Long-standing 
customer relationships
Many of our long-standing customer 
relationships have lasted over 40 years. 
Our customer focus is based on quality, 
service and consistency and our 
service-led ethos is one of the key drivers 
in the growth in our market share in 
bricks over the past 10 years.
 Growing capacity
In the UK, demand for building products 
is anticipated to increase due to 
Government support for new house-
building, increasing household formations 
and population growth. We are investing 
in the latest technology to increase 
capacity and to meet the growing 
market demands.
 n Ibstock Brick’s Chesterton plant was 
built in 2013 to consolidate production 
from two previous sites and increased 
site capacity by approximately 67% 
per annum.
 n The new Leicester plant, due to be 
commissioned in the second half of 
2017 , is expected to add capacity of 
100 million bricks per annum. 
  Highly experienced 
management team 
Our management team has extensive 
experience in the building products 
market and our Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer have combined 
experience of over 40 years at Ibstock. 
Why invest in Ibstock?
resultant destocking increased brick 
supply to the market. Brick volumes in the 
first half of the year were slightly below the 
prior year, although they recovered in the 
second half to give a full year slightly 
ahead of 2015. 
Within our concrete businesses, which 
serve both the new build and Repair, 
Maintenance and Improvement (“RMI”) 
markets, we saw both volumes and 
margins above those of the prior year. 
Sales growth came from both the Supreme 
and Forticrete businesses with Supreme 
benefiting from healthy demand for its 
products in the domestic landscaping 
RMI sector, whilst Forticrete continued to 
grow its sales principally into the new 
build housing sector.
US segment
The Glen-Gery operations within the US 
delivered another year of progress. The 
year began positively, as the unusually mild 
winter weather experienced in our key 
regions during the first quarter of 2016 
enabled an early start to the building year. 
As the strong first half volume growth 
flattened off as the year progressed, we 
saw a slower autumn period and, as we 
moved into the final months of the year, 
weather patterns returned to their normal 
seasonal trends. The US Presidential 
Election also impacted demand levels 
and we saw lower sales volumes as the 
election date approached. As a result, 
the year finished in line with our prior 
expectations. Our US operations benefited 
from foreign exchange movements, which 
increased revenue by £10.9 million and 
adjusted EBITDA by £1.5 million in 2016 
compared to 2015.
Overall, 2016 was a year of strong 
progress for our US business with a good 
first half and a second half similar to that 
of the prior year. As the US new home 
market continues to recover, the housing 
mix continues to favour single family 
dwellings, as compared to the higher 
volumes of multi-family homes that were 
built during the difficult recession years. 
This switch favours brick demand. 
Additionally, Glen-Gery’s exposure to the 
non-residential construction market has 
served it well – with good activity levels and 
some significant projects completed in the 
retail and educational sectors during the 
year. We also saw the first signs of 
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
09 rationalisation within the US brick market, 
with the announcement in August of the 
creation of Meridian Brick – a North 
American Bricks joint venture between two 
of our competitors, Boral and Forterra.
Strategy and investment 
I remain confident that our strategy is 
appropriate and that it provides the right 
basis for the Group to navigate through 
current uncertain market conditions and 
achieve longer-term growth. We continue to 
implement our strategy of investing in our 
core markets to improve productivity and 
quality, and to increase capacity, where 
required. We also continue to investigate 
range-expanding acquisition opportunities. 
I am incredibly excited by the developments 
the Company is currently progressing. In 
particular, during the year, we made good 
progress with the two major capital projects 
announced at the time of our IPO. 
We commissioned our new roof tile line at 
Leighton Buzzard in the fourth quarter and 
introduced the first of our new innovative 
roof tiles to the market. Capacity utilisation 
within the roofing market has reached very 
high levels and our new roof tile plant adds 
c.5% capacity to the UK market. The 
launch of the second tile format from this 
range is scheduled for early 2017 . To date, 
the market reception of the new product 
has been excellent and its use in some 
early housing projects can be seen on 
page 26 as customers begin trialling the 
products with a view to making 
reservations for 2017 project builds. 
In UK brick, our new 100 million per annum 
capacity brick factory in Leicestershire 
continues to progress well and is expected 
to be commissioned in the second half of 
2017 as planned. Significant interest in brick 
supplies from the new factory has already 
been received from both housebuilders 
and merchants. The scale of our new 
factory, which will become the most 
efficient brick factory in UK, together with 
its construction progress since last year, 
can be seen on page 15.
Our KPI of Return on capital employed for 
the year reduced marginally as we invested 
in these major projects in advance of 
returns being delivered. 
Towards the end of 2016, we began a 
project to remodel our Midlands blue brick 
factory at Cannock in Staffordshire with the 
introduction of a new state of the art kiln. 
Delivery of this project will improve both 
energy consumption and quality 
performance, but most importantly will 
increase our capacity in this geography 
by c.30%. Additionally, the results of our 
previous investments in walling and cast 
stone capacity at Forticrete enabled 
volumes to grow during 2016. 
Customer service and 
Information Technology
The investments, noted above, are all 
aimed at improving the service we provide 
to our customers – meeting their needs 
through increased capacity, introducing 
innovative new products and enhancing 
existing product ranges. Additionally, we 
believe that Information Technology is a 
key component to customer service and we 
implemented a new ERP system into our US 
Glen-Gery business during the year. The 
transition to this system went exceedingly 
well and as it develops, we will enhance 
management information and offer even 
further improved customer service. 
Our KPI for customer service (Net Promoter 
Score) declined by 2%pt. Analysis shows 
that customers marked us down due to 
extended delivery times for roof tiles and 
soft mud bricks at certain points in 2016. 
As discussed earlier, we have two major 
capital projects underway to improve our 
performance in these key areas of our 
product portfolio. 
Our people
In order to roll-out our strategy, it is critical 
that we have appropriately skilled people 
and develop them to the best of their 
abilities. We continue to invest in our 
people; providing over 7 ,500 training days; 
often promoting our people into new roles 
with 23% of recruitment from internal 
candidates; and seeing our UK brick 
apprenticeship scheme grow to 40 
apprentices this year as we look to the 
next generation of our workforce and 
the skills they will need. 
We have made excellent progress with 
our safety record in 2016. Whilst the only 
acceptable target is zero accidents, our 
employee Lost Time Accidents (“LTAs”) 
have reduced from 21 incidents in 2015 
to 16 in 2016 – a 24% reduction. However, 
our satisfaction with the good improvement 
is only marred by an increase in contractor 
accidents on our sites during the year.
In the UK, we consulted with employees 
regarding the closure of the Ibstock defined 
benefit pension scheme with members 
principally in Ibstock Brick and Forticrete. 
Our employees’ understanding and 
commitment was evidenced by the 
constructive consultation process 
recognising the Group’s need to move to 
more sustainable pension arrangements. 
Overall summary
We enter 2017 with brick industry statistics 
recording a return to volume growth after a 
slower first half in 2016 for the market, and 
industry stock levels declining. In the UK, 
our developer customers are looking to 
increase their activity in 2017 and we 
expect to see normalised demand from 
our merchant customers now that their 
stock levels have returned to balance. 
In the US, with the Presidential Election 
now behind us, forecasters expect our 
markets to continue to grow in the year 
ahead and we expect to see a continued 
steady improvement in our markets as 
the US economy settles. 
The Group’s key strength lies in our 
committed and experienced employees 
and our ability to deliver strong cash flows. 
We therefore look forward to the future 
with optimism from the good foundations 
laid in 2016.
Wayne Sheppard 
Chief Executive Officer 
7 March 2017
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information
10
Ibstock plc Annual Report & Accounts 2016
Chief Executive’s Statement continued
