 8 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 9
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
• the acquisition of APB in October 2002.
Although the US energy markets since
then have been subdued, mainly due to
the Enron collapse, we remain positive
about the sector. We intend to make
further acquisitions in the energy market
to build a leading global business.
Europe This was another very successful 
year for our business in Europe and profit
(1)
increased from £54.3 million to £63.4 million.
In the fixed income securities markets, credit
volatility kept the eurobond markets busy. 
UK government bonds and the distressed
debt markets were also active. As a result 
of determined efforts by management, 
a small number of product areas that had
previously not been profitable moved into
profit this year. Volatility in the oil market
as a result of tensions in the Middle East
resulted in a record year for our European
energy businesses. The interest rate
derivatives business saw the benefits of 
a very strong franchise and was able to
capitalise on moves in medium and longer
term interest rates. 
Asia The acquisition of Nittan Capital’s 
voice broking businesses in Singapore, 
Hong Kong and Thailand has enabled us 
to build a leading market position in Asia. 
The integration of these businesses is now
well underway. With a total of 600 staff and 
a strong network of ten offices, ICAP is 
the largest interdealer broker in the Asia
Pacific region. Overall the local interest rate
derivatives markets were not particularly
active but there was a strong performance
from our fixed income businesses. We
believe that a stronger and more profitable
business will emerge in the financial year to
31 March 2004 as the benefits arising from
the acquisitions made and a reorganisation
of our Asian bond business in Japan and
Hong Kong are realised.
Progress in electronic broking We have
seen some increases in the penetration 
of electronic broking in the fixed income
securities markets but fully electronic
broking is just one aspect of automation 
that suits the more liquid and commoditised
markets. As a result, ICAP has adopted 
a hybrid model bringing together electronic 
and voice broking on the same platform.
These systems now cover a wide range 
of fixed income markets: in the US, in 
a range of US Treasury securities and
repurchase agreements, in Australia, Japan,
South Africa and the UK in government bonds
and euro eurobonds.
Automation has many other guises including
the extension of screen-based price discovery
to new markets and the implementation 
of STP across a wide variety of voice and
electronic broking products. ICAP draws 
on a number of technologies and has tailored
them to meet the automation challenges 
in different markets: 
• the i-Swap system has successfully
completed installation in 22 leading
derivatives trading banks in Europe.
i-Swap extends ICAP’s voice broking with
sophisticated screen based broking and
STP solutions for interest rate swaps,
overnight index swaps and forward rate
agreements. Using proven technology, the
system is delivered over a private network
to wholesale market customers providing
them with enhanced price dissemination,
value added data and reduced trade
processing costs through STP;
• the development of ICAP’s screen based
systems for the money and forward foreign
exchange markets is expected to increase
transparency for our bank customers.
They will also be able to access increased
liquidity from offices across our network;
• the FRA-Cross system enables traders 
of interest rate swaps to input all their
unhedged positions – their FRA exposures
or mismatches – onto the FRA-Cross
website which then automatically matches
one exposed FRA with another. The system
covers sterling, euro, Swiss francs, US dollars
and emerging markets’ trades. More than
200 traders at 80 banks are using FRA-
Cross which has matched transactions
worth $1 trillion since its launch by ICAP
in January 2002.
As anticipated, electronic broking losses
(1)
were reduced from £13.8 million in the
previous year to £8.6 million in the year
ended 31 March 2003. However, the
BrokerTec acquisition will single handedly
transform our global electronic broking
activities into significant profit in the
coming year.
Information services Market data from
ICAP’s broking activities is used to create 
a variety of information products that are
distributed to market participants and data
vendors including Reuters, Bloomberg
MoneyLine Telerate and Telekurs. Many
data vendors have reported a decline in
data revenue this year but ICAP has
continued to expand data sales and profit
(1)
increased from £7.8 million to £8.1 million.
The information services division will benefit
from the data sales contracts which BrokerTec
brings with it.
Innovation In addition to our progress in the
established markets we had an excellent year
in several new products that are developing
rapidly. The three products below generated
almost 9% of our total operating profit 
in the year ended 31 March 2003.
• Credit derivatives have been one of the
most significant developments in our
markets in the past few years with liquidity
growing rapidly after a slow start. ICAP 
in particular did not make any real headway
until two years ago but we are now the
number two broker in these markets.
According to the British Bankers Association
the credit derivatives market has doubled
in size during the past year and is forecast
to double again in 2003.
• ICAP has a leading market position in UK
electricity derivatives, offering both a screen
based and voice broked service.
• Products for hedging inflation have
developed very quickly in Europe during
the past 15 months and ICAP has been 
at the forefront of the expansion of inflation
swaps. We now have a very significant
market share and are now expanding this
market into the US. In addition, we have
recently established an agreement with
Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank to
promote economic derivatives, which will
complement our inflation activities.
Outlook
Integration of the ICAP and BrokerTec
businesses is now a priority. We expect that
the cross connection of our platforms will 
be completed by September 2003. This 
will allow us to optimise our connectivity
with our customers’ systems and maximise
revenue capture. We have the resources 
to complete this work with our existing staff
and suppliers. 
Market conditions remain good for ICAP 
and our position is extremely strong. By
creating such a powerful combination: 
the world’s largest voice and electronic
interdealer broker, we can continue to
increase our market share organically and
through selective acquisition. Assuming 
that markets continue to be busy, we 
have set a budget for profit before tax,
goodwill amortisation and exceptional 
items to exceed £140 million in the 
current financial year.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
(1)
profit before tax, interest, exceptional items but after
charging goodwill amortisation
(1)
profit/loss before tax, interest, exceptional items but
after charging goodwill amortisation 10 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 11
Group Finance Director’s Review
The Group reported a strong financial performance in the year ended
31 March 2003. Turnover, profit, EPS and dividend per share increased
significantly. Continuing emphasis was placed on improving operating
profit margins, effective cost control and efficient cash management.
Results
The Group reported profit of £123.7 million
before taxation, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items; this represents a 39%
increase over the prior year.
Turnover grew by 26%, with most of the
Group’s broking operations continuing to
benefit from uncertain and volatile financial
markets. Excluding contributions from
acquisitions in the year and foreign exchange
movements, turnover growth was 13%.
Each of the Group’s three geographic
regions achieved year-on-year turnover
growth of between 9% and 12% in their
continuing operations. The best growth rate
was achieved in the US business following
its strong recovery from the World Trade
Center disaster. If the adverse effect of the
depreciating US dollar is excluded, US
revenue growth was 21%. Turnover growth
in the voice broking segments was 11%.
Costs continue to be tightly controlled.
Although they increased over the prior year
by £103 million (23%), costs increased 
by only £19.4 million (7%) if the impact 
of acquisitions, currency movements and
higher revenue and profit-linked bonuses
were excluded. This increase is in part
explained by the impact of higher business
volumes on variable costs such as clearing
costs. The Group has also invested in certain
growth areas, for example, credit derivatives 
and commodities. The Group’s cost base 
in the financial year to 31 March 2004 is
anticipated to increase by some £3.5 million
as a consequence of higher insurance
premiums and an increase in the UK
employers’ National Insurance rate. There
will also be additional rent and depreciation
charges as a result of the relocation of our
US operations to New Jersey, some of which
may be offset by the receipt of local state
grants to be receivable annually over the
next ten years. Effective cost management
continues to be a major objective.
Broker employment costs, the largest
component of the Group’s cost base, have
been maintained at 54% of Group turnover
for the third year in succession demonstrating
the Group’s determination to maintain control
over broker remuneration. The variable
component of broker remuneration cost,
which is linked to revenue and profit growth,
has now increased to more than half of this
cost. A further element of the Group’s cost
base, estimated to be 7% of Group turnover,
is of a variable nature.
The strong revenue performance, combined
with prudent cost management, has enabled
the Group to increase its operating profit
margin to 17% in the financial year ended 
31 March 2003 (15% in the prior year).
Operating margins
The Group continues to focus on operating
profit margin enhancement through a
combination of growth in market share and
the application of strict cost controls. The
operating profit margin performance of our
voice broking businesses and by geographic
region is summarised below.
The securities broking margin increased
from 11% to 14% assisted by the strong
recovery in our US operations which have 
a large securities broking component.
The reduction in the derivatives and money
broking margin needs to be set in the
following context: the margin for the prior
year benefited from a £1.5 million release 
in bad debt provision no longer required. 
If this was excluded, last year’s margin would
have been 19%. The current year’s margin
of 18% includes £2 million of incremental
costs relating to the Group’s i-Swap initiative.
Excluding these costs, the margin for the
financial year would have been 19%.
Our businesses in Europe continued 
to benefit from strong trading conditions 
in the region.
The Asia Pacific margin has been affected
by the difficult trading environment in Japan
and has also been impacted by the integration
of the recently acquired businesses in the
region. We believe that a stronger and more
profitable business will emerge in the financial
year to 31 March 2004.
Acquisitions
During the financial year the Group made 
a number of acquisitions. Further details 
of these are disclosed in note 14 to the
Financial Statements.
First Brokers On 30 April 2002, the 
Group acquired First Brokers, the leading
New York interdealer broker in US dollar
denominated corporate debt. Its results
have been consolidated into these financial
statements as from May 2002. The US
corporate bond markets have been very
active during the year and this has benefited
First Brokers’ financial performance which
has exceeded pre-acquisition expectations. 
The first deferred consideration payment 
of £13 million was made in May 2003 and
was paid entirely in cash. The Group did not
take up its option to fund it in part by the
issue of shares.
APB APB was acquired by ICAP for an initial
cash payment of $15.5 million on 4 October
2002. Further payments, contingent on the
future earnings of the business, will be
made over four years. The payment in 2003
will be paid in cash. Future payments due 
in 2004, 2005 and 2006 may, at ICAP’s
option, be made either wholly in cash or by
way of a mixture of cash and shares. APB’s
results were consolidated into these financial
statements from October 2002.
Year ended Year ended
31 March 2003 31 March 2002
Activity
Securities broking 14% 11%
Derivatives and money broking 18% 20%
Geographic region
Americas 12% 8%
Europe 20% 19%
Asia Pacific 6% 11%
Note
Operating profit margin is profit before interest and exceptional items but after goodwill amortisation for the Group’s
continuing operations. 12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 13
Group Finance Director’s Review continued
Earnings and earnings per share (EPS)
The 37% growth in adjusted earnings reflects
the increase in pre-tax profit, a constant
effective tax rate, and a slight increase 
in minority interests. 
We continue to believe that adjusted EPS,
which reflects the business’s true cash
earnings, is the most appropriate EPS
measurement ratio. This excludes goodwill
amortisation and exceptional items, but
includes share capital which is contingently
issuable in respect of the First Brokers and
APB acquisitions. Following the exercise
of SAYE and executive share options, the
number of shares in issue has increased by
2.5 million. The full-year effect of this will 
be seen in the new financial year. 
Adjusted EPS increased by 33% to 77.3p
and basic EPS was 77.0p.
Dividend
Subject to shareholder approval, a 23p final
dividend is proposed. This compares to 18p
in the prior year and would result in a full-year
dividend of 30p, which represents a 25%
increase on the prior year. This is the third
consecutive year that we have been able to
increase the dividend and reflects the strong
earnings performance and the outlook for
the new financial year. The full-year dividend
is two and a half times covered. 
Cash flow
The effective management of cash resources
remains a key management objective.
Regular reviews of cash retained in operating
subsidiaries are undertaken and where
appropriate surplus cash is repatriated to 
the centre. Capital expenditure is rigorously
controlled and monitored by the Group’s
annual budgeting and regular forecasting
cycles. All acquisition opportunities are the
subject of detailed due diligence and financial
evaluation, including the use of discounted
cash flow and return on investment
techniques and criteria.
The Group’s FRS1 cash flow is set out on page
38 of the Financial Statements.
Consistent with previous years, cash flow 
is best understood by reference to the
movement in net funds (defined as cash,
current asset investments less overdrafts
and borrowings).
On this basis, net funds, as defined in note
31(c) of the notes to the Financial Statements,
increased during the year by £18.9 million
to £184.6 million (2002 – £165.7 million).
The table below summarises the key
elements that make up the £18.9 million
increase in net funds. Most items can be
linked back to the Group’s FRS1 cashflow
statement and related notes. However, the
£14.1 million exceptional items outflow
requires further explanation and is made 
up as follows: operating exceptional items
paid £8.3 million, capital expenditure of
£21.2 million, offset by insurance proceeds
in respect of tangible fixed assets of 
£15.4 million. Apart from a small proportion
of the £8.3 million which relates to Asia
Pacific, all of these cashflows are in respect
of the World Trade Center disaster.
A particularly encouraging feature of cashflow
this year has been the strong working
capital management as is highlighted in 
the table below.
Year ended
31 March 2003
£m
Profit before tax* 123.7
Joint ventures and associates (3.2)
Depreciation 15.8
Net capital expenditure (16.0)
Tax (35.7)
Working capital and other 11.3
95.9
Acquisitions/investments (36.4)
Dividends (26.5)
Exceptional items (14.1)
Net funds inflow 18.9
*excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Asian businesses ICAP acquired from 
Nittan Capital its voice broking businesses 
in Singapore (where we already owned
20%), Hong Kong and Thailand.The total
consideration for the acquisition is estimated
to be in the region of £25 million, payable 
in cash, of which £18 million was paid on
completion with the remainder becoming
payable in November 2003. These businesses
were consolidated into these Financial
Statements from mid November 2002.
BrokerTec 
On 7 May 2003 the Group completed the
acquisition of BrokerTec’s fixed income
securities businesses for a consideration 
of £180 million. The initial consideration 
for the acquisition was satisfied by the issue 
of 11,989,509 new ordinary shares. Up to 
an additional 6,744,099 new ordinary shares
will be issued after one year, the final number
of which will be dependent upon the first
year revenues earned by the acquired
businesses and ETC, ICAP’s existing electronic
trading platform.
In the year ended 31 December 2002, the
unaudited profit before exceptional items 
of the BrokerTec businesses acquired was
$20.5 million.
Net synergies are anticipated to be at 
least £2.2 million in the financial year
ending 31 March 2004. After taking these
synergies into account it is expected that
the transaction will be broadly EPS neutral
in the year to 31 March 2004.
Exceptional items
The Group received a further £16.2 million
of insurance receipts in respect of the World
Trade Center disaster in the financial year 
to 31 March 2003. It is anticipated that 
we will receive a final payment of some 
£5 million of material damage insurance
receipts in the financial year to 31 March 2004
making a total of £33.1 million received 
from insurers in respect of the World Trade
Center disaster.
During the financial year the Group incurred
£3.1 million of expenses in connection with
restoring the business following the World
Trade Center disaster. In November 2002,
our US operations moved into new premises
in New Jersey and this brings to a close the
World Trade Center disaster related costs.
There were a number of rationalisation
costs associated with the acquisition of 
the Asian businesses and these are
reflected in a £1.7 million exceptional
charge in the year. Furthermore, there was
a £0.6 million loss on the sale of the Group’s
investment in Nittan Capital Group Ltd.
The integration of BrokerTec and the 
Group’s existing electronic operations has
begun and will result in exceptional costs in
the financial year to March 2004. In the UK
the Group is relocating its London offices in
mid 2004 and this may also result in some
exceptional costs.
Taxation
The effective tax rate, which excludes
goodwill amortisation and exceptional items,
has been maintained at 34%. The increasing
profit contributions from the US, a high tax
jurisdiction, could result in a 1 to 2% rise 
in the Group’s effective tax rate next year. 14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 ICAP plc Annual Report 2003 15
Group Finance Director’s Review continued
It is estimated that 75% of the Group’s net
funds is held by operating subsidiaries 
to meet regulatory capital, commercial and
general working capital requirements. This can
vary from time to time depending upon
territorial profit mix, regulatory capital rule
changes and counterparty perception of the
appropriate level of capital required to be
retained in the business.
As at 31 March 2003 borrowings were nil
and there was a small overdraft of £1 million.
During the financial year the Group renewed
its banking facilities and now has in place a
three-year £50 million loan facility with four
commercial banking institutions. This facility is
essentially of a working capital nature, although
£20 million can be utilised for acquisitions. 
Balance sheet
Net assets increased by £66.8 million
during the year, and as at 31 March 2003
were £263.2 million. 
The Group’s tangible fixed assets increased
by £22.8 million during the year principally
due to the reinstatement of our US operations
following the World Trade Center disaster. 
The acquisitions undertaken in the year have
resulted in a significant increase in goodwill
held on the balance sheet. This will 
increase substantially following the acquisition
of BrokerTec.
Deferred consideration is payable in respect
of the First Brokers and APB acquisitions
and is dependent on their future performance.
At the Company’s option part of this
consideration may be paid by way of issue
of shares and this is reflected in the balance
sheet as contingent share capital. The cash
element is included within creditors.
Following the exercise of SAYE and executive
share options some 2.5 million shares 
were issued resulting in an increase of
£19.2 million in the share premium account.
The difference of £15.6 million between the
exercise price and market price has been
charged to the profit and loss reserves in
accordance with current accounting standards.
Risk management
The identification, control and monitoring
of risks facing the business remains a key
management priority and steps have been
taken to enhance our risk management
procedures. The key risks include operational,
credit, market, treasury and reputational
risk. Details of our approach to risk
management are provided in the Corporate
Governance statement on pages 21 to 23.
Foreign exchange
The Group hedges its transactional foreign
exchange exposures by the use of foreign
exchange contracts and options. The
Group’s major exposures are to US dollar
and euro inflows into the UK. A 10 cent
movement in the US dollar before hedging
has a £2.5 million impact on profit before
tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items. A 10 cent movement in the euro
before hedging has a £4 million impact. 
As at 1 May 2003, the Group has 61% of its
US dollar exposure for the year to 31 March
2004 hedged at $1.52 and for the year 
to 31 March 2005 3% is hedged at $1.50.
Given the recent euro appreciation against
sterling, the opportunity has been taken to
start hedging the Group’s euro exposures.
As at 1 May 2003 the Group had 30% of
its euro exposure for the year to 31 March
2004 hedged at a blended euro rate of
1.40. The rate that is actually achieved
will vary according to the spot rate at maturity.
The Group does not hedge its translational
foreign exchange exposures. The impact of
foreign exchange movements on the Group’s
results is mitigated by translating the profits
of its overseas subsidiaries at average exchange
rates. Where appropriate, structural hedges
via inter-company debt are put in place to
further mitigate translational foreign exchange
exposures. The only major translational
foreign exchange exposure is to the US
dollar, where a 10 cent movement would
have a £1.5 million impact on pre-tax profit.
Interest rate management
Cash balances are invested only in
investments of appropriate quality (not less
than AA rated) and for a duration of no
longer than two years. Limits are in place
to ensure that restrictions are in existence
as to the amount of funds that can be
invested in any one institution. This is
subject to regular review by the Treasury
Committee. The overall philosophy is one 
of capital preservation, liquidity management
and then yield enhancement.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate
movements in a number of geographic
regions. The main exposures are to US
interest rates where a 1% movement in
interest rates has a £1 million sensitivity 
to the profit and loss account, and to UK
interest rates where a 1% movement
impacts profit and loss by £0.5 million.
At present the Group has not hedged any
of its variable interest rate exposure. 
Accounting developments
There have been no new accounting standards
issued which required implementation by
the Group this year.
The Group continues to monitor accounting
developments and in particular the move to
International Financial Reporting Standards.
Return on capital
The return on capital employed for the year,
measured by dividing the post-tax profit
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional
items by the average capital employed in
the year (after adding back goodwill written
off: at 31 March 2003 £41.9 million, at
31 March 2002 £24.9 million), increased
from 29% to 30%.
The new financial year
The financial priorities for the forthcoming
year are to integrate satisfactorily the
BrokerTec acquisition and to increase our
profit margins through a combination of
growth in market share and effective cost
control. We plan to achieve this against 
a continuing background of strong cash
management disciplines.
Jim Pettigrew
Group Finance Director 
