 The Group’s profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and
exceptional items was £89.1 million for the year to 
31 March 2002 compared with £75.6 million for the
previous year. Shareholders’ funds at 31 March 2002 were
£188.5 million, up £26.5 million. The directors recommend 
a final dividend of 18p per share to be paid on 30 August
2002 making a total dividend of 24p per share for the year,
an increase of 20%.
Chairman’s Statement 
4
ICAP plc  Annual Report 2002
This was a very good performance from
ICAP and reflects the strength of our
market position. The markets in which we
operate have been very active, positively
influenced by frequent interest rate changes
and increased bond issuance. We did,
however, suffer significantly from the
impact of the attack on the World Trade
Center.
Overall the business had slightly increased
its market share by the end of the year.
We estimate that the global interdealer
broking market for OTC derivatives, fixed
income securities, money markets, futures,
foreign exchange and energy and
equity derivatives was worth approximately
$4 billion in revenues in 2001. ICAP is
the global leader in this market with a
20% share, a position that we have
continued to build on with the recent
acquisition of First Brokers Securities Inc.
The structure of our industry continues
to change rapidly. It was historically
fragmented with low barriers to entry.
Consolidation over the past few years has,
however, been driven by mergers of our
customers creating fewer but larger banks
and the increasing importance of technology
which has significantly raised barriers to
entry. ICAP has benefited from increased
operational leverage and by realising the
benefits of our size and reach. Consolidation
is continuing and there are several corporate
opportunities in our sector that we are
pursuing energetically.
Our strategy in those markets where we
do not have a strong market share has
been to create joint ventures with
appropriate partners to achieve significant
liquidity or to make acquisitions. Our
successful joint venture in currency 
options, TFS-ICAP , was combined with  Volbroker, a bank-owned consortium that
includes the most active currency options
players. We firmly believe that bringing
together liquidity from the leading voice
broker and the foremost electronic platform
is the key to increased efficiency in the
financial markets. The combined business
is performing well.
During the year we took complete control
of our Spot Foreign Exchange joint ventures
by acquiring the 52% we did not already
own. This is a profitable business and the
Spot FX market still has room for a strong
voice broker. We have been able to make
cost savings as a result of improved
economies of scale. 
The attack on the World Trade Center on
11 September resulted in the destruction
of ICAP’s entire New York offices. As the
result of a remarkable response from our
management team in New York, together
with their staff, we were able to restore
limited broking operations very quickly.
When the enormous scale of the tragedy
became clear the financial community
reacted with tremendous support and
offers of help came flooding in. In
particular we are very grateful for the
incredible assistance we have received
from Bloomberg, HSBC Bank USA and
Hartfield, Titus & Donnelly. Sadly we lost
one of our staff in the disaster: our
thoughts remain with her family and the
families and friends of all those who were
affected by the tragedy.
On our Charity Days in 2001 the combined
effort of our staff and customers helped
us to raise an extraordinary £2.8 million.
The largest share was dedicated to charities
linked to the World Trade Center disaster
but we were also able to give a significant 
sum to two charities working in war torn
Afghanistan. The Group donates its entire
revenue on Charity Day, without any cost
deductions, to various charities. 
One of our non-executive directors,
Jon Robson, resigned from the board in
November 2001. He had previously been
a member of the Intercapital board and I
would like to thank him for his contribution
to the merged business.
The response of our staff worldwide to
the opportunities and challenges of the
past year has been outstanding. In particular
our staff in New York suffered a most
traumatic experience and I would like to
acknowledge their remarkable efforts in
restoring our business so successfully.
The leadership shown by the senior
management team in their rapid response
to the challenges presented by the events
on 11 September was extraordinary. As a
result of all their efforts the business can
now go forward, even stronger than
before. 
Charles Gregson
Chairman
5
ICAP plc  Annual Report 2002
