 4 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006
Profit before tax on a statutory basis
was £193.0 million, an increase of
£26.2 million. 
These results are the first full-year
results we have produced in
accordance with International Financial
Reporting Standards (IFRS) and are
fully described in the Operating and
Financial Review (OFR). While the
format of the presentation of the
IFRS Financial Statements may be
unfamiliar, the changes in
presentation have no impact on the
cash and economic performance of
the business or its strategic
direction.
It is with great pleasure that we
present the 2006 annual results. 
The Group continues to deliver 
strong growth in earnings, has made
significant progress in executing its
strategy, possesses a very strong
management team and has extended
further its market leading position. 
The Group’s profit before tax,
amortisation and impairment of
intangibles arising on consolidation
and exceptional items was 
£204.3 million for the year to 
31 March 2006 compared with
£176.7 million for the previous year.
Net assets at 31 March 2006 were
£619.8 million, up £99.8 million.
“The Group’s profit before tax, amortisation and
impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation
and exceptional items was £204.3 million for 
the year to 31 March 2006 compared with
£176.7 million for the previous year.”
Charles Gregson
Chairman’s Statement Annual Report 2006   ICAP plc 5
David Gelber will be completing 
his year as a non-executive director
at the Annual General Meeting. 
We have continued to benefit from his
knowledge and broad experience of
the business since he retired from
his role as Group Chief Operating
Officer a year ago. He has made a
tremendous contribution to the
business that is now ICAP, having
been involved with the Intercapital
business since 1994. He became the
Chief Operating Officer of Intercapital
plc, following the Exco/Intercapital
merger in 1999. He will continue to
work as a consultant with the Group.
Our Group Finance Director, Jim
Pettigrew, has decided, after seven
years in this role, to pursue his
career outside ICAP. His commitment
to ICAP’s success has been
outstanding and I am sure that his
move to a new challenge will be
equally successful. He will leave the
Group on 2 June 2006.
The board has agreed to appoint
Matthew Lester as Group Finance
Director after a full and thorough
search process. We hope he will be
available to join the Group within six
months. Mark Yallop, ICAP’s Chief
Operating Officer, will take over the
Group Finance Director’s
responsibilities until Matthew Lester
is available to take up his position.
We believe the key to long-term value
is growth: growth in customer
revenue; growth in earnings; this 
will allow us to generate superior
returns on capital for our shareholders.
Our current results and the
acquisition of EBS will provide us
with a solid base for future growth. 
To succeed, we need to constantly
adapt to changing markets.
The Group’s lead regulator, the UK
Financial Services Authority (FSA), will
implement the EU Capital
Requirements Directive (CRD) on 
1 January 2007. The CRD will create
a modern capital framework for
companies across the EU. After
extensive discussions with the FSA
we believe that, following some
changes to two of our smaller
businesses, ICAP will comply with the
requirements of the new directive.
ICAP continues to be a highly cash
generative business which has
allowed us to invest in the
development of the business and has
enabled the Group to maintain a
progressive approach to the dividend
paid to shareholders: the directors
recommend a final dividend of 7.5p
per share to be paid on 25 August
2006 to shareholders on the register
on 28 July 2006 making a total
dividend of 10.0p per share for the
year. We announced in May 2005
that, in the normal course of events,
future interim dividends will be
calculated at 30% of the previous
year’s full-year dividend.
All businesses are expected to take
their social responsibilities seriously;
some do so as a part of their
operations, others actively seek ways
to give something back to society.
Our Charity Day has been a part of
ICAP’s culture for 13 years, raising 
an incredible global total of 
£5.2 million in December 2005 (up
from £4.2 million the previous year)
as a result of the outstanding
support of our staff and customers.
This is a wonderful achievement and
over 70 charities have benefited 
from the money raised in our offices
around the world. Since Charity Day
began, the total raised by ICAP staff
and customers is over £26 million.
These results reflect a strongly
performing business. It wasn’t easy,
given the challenges and the stiff
competition we face in the market. 
It was achieved with contributions
from every segment of the business
and was the result of dedicated
teamwork at every level in the
business. For that I thank every single
member of staff, the management
team and my fellow directors.
Charles Gregson
Chairman 6 ICAP plc Annual Report 2006
AD Annual Report 2006   ICAP plc 7
APTIVE
