 Without doubt the most significant event 
for the Group this past year was the
completion in May 2003 of the purchase
of BrokerTec. This landmark event, after
nearly two years of negotiations with the
owners, has transformed ICAP overnight
from a modest operator in electronic broking
of fixed income securities into the clear
global leader.
Our timing could not have been more
propitious as the pace of electronic
broking has accelerated even further since
then and we now transact over $300 billion
per day (yes, per day) on the BrokerTec
platform. This is some 60% higher than
BrokerTec was transacting only a year ago
and the ongoing rapid adoption of electronic
broking in the fixed income universe suggests
to me that these high growth rates are
sustainable. BrokerTec has performed ahead
of our best expectations.
It is no exaggeration to observe that ICAP
is now not only the clear global leader in
wholesale voice broking, as we have been
for many years, but also the leader in
electronic broking. This is a unique critical
combination as our three largest voice
competitors have no effective electronic
broking capability and our electronic
competitors have little or no voice capability.
Our strategy going forward remains the
same as we have espoused for several
years – with the important exception that
we now have a powerful electronic arm
which perfectly complements our long
established market leading voice business.
We intend to expand further our share of
the electronic and voice markets by a
combination of acquisition and organic
growth. We anticipate that the electronic
division is likely to grow more rapidly than
the voice divisions in volume and profit
terms as more products are traded
electronically and we benefit from the
major operating leverage of electronic
broking. We believe that by pursuing this
strategy it is possible to increase our
global market share of industry revenues
from a current estimated 27%. Our margins
over time will also improve from the
economies of scale generated by our
electronic capabilities.
Industry volumes have been robust during
most of the financial year with derivatives
and fixed income volumes both posting
sharp increases. The threat of deflation
that had been of some concern to us a
year ago, threatening to lead to low and
stable interest rates, has now completely
receded. With increasing G7 deficits and 
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review   This has been another year of considerable progress
at ICAP . We have again outpaced our competitors and significantly increased our share of the
interdealer broking market, our turnover and profit. This has been reflected in the rise of the ICAP
share price during the year by 49% and a cumulative appreciation, since the September 1999
creation of ICAP , of 444%.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 08
MARKET SHARE 2003 %
MARKET SHARE 2004 %
27.2
24.2 higher economic growth, I remain optimistic
that we have another year of reasonable
volatility and rising volumes ahead of us.
The rapidly expanding hedge fund industry
has also contributed significantly to increased
derivative and fixed income trading. ICAP
is very well positioned to capture more
than our previous share of this business.  
We are also embarking upon building 
a global futures broking business. We have
small existing futures activities in some
centres but we now intend to build a
global capability, focusing particularly on
North America and Europe. The overlap in
terms of clients and products as well as
convergence between OTC products and
futures exchanges drives us inexorably in
this direction. Within a few years I expect
that futures will make a material contribution
to our overall profit. 
Further strategic and structural changes
are in our opinion likely to take place in our
industry within the next year or so. Our
management team is well prepared and
we will take advantage of the opportunities
that will add shareholder value.
I have been fortunate for many years to 
work with an exceptional and committed
management team: broadly the same
group has led ICAP since the 1999
merger. I am delighted, however, this year
that our management resources have
been strengthened by the appointment
of Jay Spencer as Global Chief Information
Officer, Humphrey Percy as global head of
futures and Garry Jones and David Rutter
as heads of electronic broking in Europe
and North America respectively.
Outlook
There was an upturn in market sentiment in
April regarding the US economic outlook
and the prospect for further policy tightening,
which has lifted the US yield curve and
the euro curve has followed in its wake.
The likelihood of a further global economic
upswing is improving and this is expected
to apply continued upward pressure on
changes in interest rate expectations. As a
result we anticipate that industry activity
levels will continue to grow steadily and
ICAP will continue to benefit from its strong
position in and broad coverage of the
wholesale markets in fixed income securities
and derivatives. 
2003/2004 was a good year for ICAP; we
look forward to another successful year.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
ICAP Executive Team
Group Chief Operating Officer
David Gelber
Group Finance Director
Jim Pettigrew
Chief Operating Officer – Americas
Steve McDermott
Americas
Ron Purpora and Doug Rhoten 
Europe & Africa
George MacDonald, David Casterton, 
Paul McMenemy and Gary Smith
Asia Pacific
Bryan Massey and Mark Webster
Electronic Broking
Garry Jones and David Rutter
Futures
Humphrey Percy
Global Chief Information Officer
Jay Spencer
Information Services
John Nixon
ICAP plc Annual Report 2004 09
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2004 
YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2003 
MICHAEL 
SPENCER
