 These excellent results reflect active markets during the past
twelve months and our rapid recovery from the destruction
of our New York offices on 11 September. The business,
despite that dreadful event, has never been stronger with 
a leading global market position, good technology,
exceptional staff and a very sound financial base. Our
strategic plans, including acquisitions, remain on track.
Group Chief Executive Officer’s Review
6
ICAP plc  Annual Report 2002
This past year has been the most challenging
I have experienced as CEO. Until September
the firm was performing outstandingly on
virtually every front and we were taking full
advantage of buoyant market conditions.
11 September changed everything: for
the world and for us. The entire fabric of
our New York business was destroyed -
equipment, data, systems, records, indeed
everything other than our most important
asset, our people. With the tragic exception
of Karen Seymour, a wonderful colleague,
675 of our people survived that terrible
day. More than 30% of our profit had
apparently been wiped out, our
prospects seemed bleak and our share
price slumped. 
Extraordinary times can provoke
extraordinary responses. By 20 September
the majority of our staff were back at
work in borrowed premises providing a
basic service to our customers - a testament
to the exceptional effort, determination
and commitment of our colleagues in
New York.
Thereafter our capacity in New York steadily
improved. Within four weeks revenues had
returned to 60% of budgeted levels and
by January 2002 had recovered to 90%.
The crisis was over; we had recovered our
business more speedily than anyone had
thought imaginable four months previously
and each day saw incremental improvements
in our operational effectiveness. The arduous
task of rebuilding our records and systems
was also beginning to take shape. Our
share price rallied strongly; we were the
second best performing share in the FTSE
350 in 2001 with a rise of 78%.
Review of the business Active trading
in virtually all the wholesale financial
markets was enhanced by the volatility
and opportunities created by the
unprecedented frequency of interest rate
cuts last year. We restored our New York
operations remarkably quickly following
11 September but nevertheless estimate
the disaster adversely impacted revenues
by at least £10 million.
Derivatives and money broking had an
extremely good year with profit of 
£55.2 million, up 37%, as ICAP benefited
from its dominant position and broad
coverage of those markets. Securities
broking profit advanced to £28.5 million,
up 9%, obviously held back by the
disruption in New York.
The European contribution to profit before
interest increased by 31% to £54.3 million,
reflecting strong trading conditions in the
region. However profit in the Americas was
20% lower at £16.1 million, primarily as a
result of the World Trade Center disaster. 
The Asia Pacific region had a good year
with profit of £7.3 million, an increase of
49%, assisted by a strong performance
in Asian corporate bonds and benefits
flowing from last year’s reorganisation of
our Tokyo based derivatives operations. At the beginning of the past financial
year we set ourselves clear objectives to
increase revenue from information
services and electronic broking. It is
encouraging to report that information
services revenue increased to 
£12.0 million, up 20%, and our revenue
from electronic broking was 161%
higher than the prior year at £7.3 million. 
The adoption of electronic trading in
many markets remains much slower than
originally expected. This reflects the
considerable difficulties of attracting
liquidity to new platforms and many of
them have been withdrawn from the
market or merged. Our model, which
integrates both voice and electronic
broking, is working well and we have
continued to make significant progress in
the integration of technology and voice
broking. We are the only electronic broker
with a significant presence in both US
Treasuries and Japanese Government
Bonds, the two largest bond markets. 
We have successfully added Australian
Government Bonds, UK Gilts and Euro
Eurobonds to the system. However, as
expected, electronic broking continues 
to be loss making, losing £13.8 million 
(2001 – £6.9 million). We expect this loss
to diminish in the future.
Consolidation Our market share has
improved moderately this past year across
most of our products. Market share is
important because it attracts order flow,
which generates liquidity, which in turn
converts into market share – a virtuous
circle indeed. We intend to continue
increasing our market share organically,
through acquisition and through the
application of technology.
We remain keen on acquisitions that fit
into our overall strategic objectives either
because they have strong market
positions or relevant technology. The
recent purchase of First Brokers in New
York is a good example. This privately-
owned business is the market leader in
Dollar corporate debt, improves our
product portfolio, has good potential to
increase profitability and is immediately
earnings enhancing. 
Over the longer term there may be
opportunities to acquire other broking
firms, many of which are ill equipped to
grow, having neither the technology nor
the financial strength to develop further. 
Outlook We remain committed to the
application of technology to our business
to increase both our customer service and
our own efficiency. It is clear that the
introduction of electronic broking will be
financially painful initially, but ultimately
will be more profitable with information
sales, higher market share and a wider
customer base. Fully electronic broking 
is just one aspect of the automation of
markets and really only suits liquid and
commoditised products which is why we
have adopted the hybrid model to
electronic broking. Automation has many
other guises including the extension of
screen-based price discovery to new
markets and the implementation of
straight-through-processing for all
products.
Our markets continue to expand as the
use of financial derivatives in the interest
rate, credit and equity markets increases. 
Net bond issuance, particularly in the
corporate bond markets products, has
been high and energy volumes are
moving up. Underlying trends therefore
remain positive.
This year market conditions may be
slightly less buoyant because of reduced
interest rate volatility but we expect a
sharp rebound in American profit that
was lost from 11 September. Indeed the
overall strategic position of ICAP is
stronger than ever. A new North American
headquarters has been selected in the
Harborside Financial Center in Jersey City,
which we expect to occupy in October
2002. 
We have made a good start to the new
financial year and, assuming that markets
continue to be moderately busy, we have
every expectation of achieving our target
to exceed £100 million profit this year. 
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
7
ICAP plc  Annual Report 2002
