 Michael Spencer , Group Chief Executive Officer ,  
discusses the past 12 months.
Michael Spencer
Group Chief Executive Officer
The proposed sale of our global 
voice broking business is a 
significant moment in the history 
of ICAP . Looking forward, as a 
financial technology company, our 
ambition is to be the global leader 
in electronic OTC transactions  
and post trade services across  
all segments of the market.
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
4 Q
 
How is the  
Transaction structured?
A
 
In November 2015, ICAP announced that we had entered  
into a Transaction which will, when completed, involve  
the disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information 
business, including our associated technology and broking 
platforms (including i-Swap and Fusion), certain of our joint 
ventures and our associates (IGBB), to Tullett Prebon.
I will be the CEO of Newco and will be supported in this role by 
the strong management teams in place in both divisions as well  
as the current directors of ICAP plc. The CEO of Tullett Prebon, 
John Phizackerley, will be CEO of the enlarged Tullett Prebon. 
Newco will have a seat on its board, representing 10% of the 
vote. Our Global Chief Operating Officer, Ken Pigaga, will become 
their Chief Operating Officer and will be appointed to its board.  
All of these matters are subject to competition authority and 
regulatory approvals. 
Q
What are the benefits of the  
Transaction for ICAP shareholders?
A
The ambition for Newco is to be the world’s leading 
electronic platform for OTC transactions and post trade 
services to all parties: corporates, investment banks, universal 
banks, asset managers, hedge funds, high-frequency traders, 
sovereign wealth funds and central banks. ICAP’s revenue from 
electronic trading and post trade services is already well diversified, 
with an increasing proportion coming from recurring business: 
62% of post trade revenue came from subscriptions this year.
We will continue this strategy as we expand the potential market  
for these services through product development and greater 
penetration of geographic markets and customer segments.
On completion, it is expected that Newco will cease to be subject 
to consolidated regulatory capital requirements. The ICAP Group 
currently operates under a waiver from those requirements but, 
absent the Transaction, it is expected that the FCA would require 
significant capital to be retained or raised over a period of years 
to eliminate the consolidated capital deficit that otherwise exists. 
Based on an assessment of the information (including on legal 
advice) provided to the FCA by ICAP in relation to the projected 
balance of financial and non-financial business in Newco, the  
FCA has indicated that, following the Transaction, Newco will  
not be subject to prudential consolidation requirements. 
During our negotiations both ICAP and Tullett Prebon found  
that we have much in common culturally, which will help with  
the integration of the two businesses. TP ICAP will have the scale 
required to deliver good margins while continuing to invest in its 
people and technology. It will benefit from products developed  
by ICAP including i-Swap, Fusion and Scrapbook. TP ICAP 
announced that it expected the savings from combining the  
two businesses to exceed £60 million annually. 
Q
 
 Which trends have had most impact on  
ICAP’s market landscape in the past year?
A
The global regulatory effort to improve the transparency, 
risk management and resilience of participants in the  
world’s financial markets continues to impact the structure of  
our marketplace. The strategies and business models of ICAP’s 
traditional bank customer base have changed in response to the 
requirements of Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act in the US, EMIR in 
Europe and will continue to evolve with MiFID II and other new 
regulations as they come into force. Banks and other market 
participants are turning to technology to help them manage 
these challenges and the additional costs associated with them. 
Electronic trading is increasingly prevalent in both interbank  
and bank to customer markets and our customers are looking  
to use technology throughout the trade life cycle. Against this 
background of structural changes within wholesale financial 
markets and increased regulatory oversight and disclosure,  
our customers are seeking innovative products, greater  
liquidity and the best-in-class platforms and services. This 
presents an enormous opportunity for our business. At the  
same time, the issues created by over-capacity in the voice 
broking market have been apparent for a while and were  
a key driver behind the Transaction with Tullett Prebon.
Q
 
Why is ICAP selling its  
global voice broking business?
A
 
ICAP has a market-leading voice broking business. The roots  
of the Company are in voice broking which has been a driver  
of our success for more than 30 years. The volume of voice broking 
business across the market has, however, been shrinking for a 
number of years and the costs involved have escalated: it has 
been obvious for some time that the voice broking industry 
needs consolidation. That process began with the merger of  
BGC and GFI last year. The sale of our voice broking business  
to Tullett Prebon is a logical and a natural next step. The voice 
businesses have complementary strengths and the Transaction 
will create the largest global hybrid voice broking business by 
revenue. We believe this is the right move for our customers  
and for the future of the voice broking industry as a whole.
The Transaction will create a focused financial technology 
business. Electronic trading and post trade services provided  
the vast majority of the Group’s operating profit this year, which 
is indicative of how the business and the wider marketplace  
have evolved. Our future is as a financial technology company, 
focused on electronic markets and post trade services. Our 
leading portfolio of products and businesses sits at the heart of 
financial market infrastructure and will be ideally placed to meet 
customers’ changing requirements. We will be better positioned 
to go into new market segments with innovation and product 
development and will benefit from the increased demand made 
by regulators for post trade risk mitigation and electronic trading. 
For some time ICAP has been progressively diversifying from 
voice broking.
Since 2002, when we first invested in TriOptima, we have made 
strategic investments to develop the next generation of financial 
technology for the trading community. BrokerTec was one of the 
earliest of these investments back in 2003 and is now the world’s 
leading electronic trading platform for fixed income markets. EBS 
is a leading electronic FX trading business with significant market 
share in many currencies. We established Euclid Opportunities 
specifically to nurture the growth of early-stage financial 
technology companies and the Euclid programme is going to  
be an increasingly important part of our future. My vision is  
to create the world’s leading multi-product global electronic 
transaction network for OTC products and post trade services. 
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
5
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report Strong track record of innovation
Acquisitions Product launches
Growth 
drivers
*
30% stake in
TriOptima
Acquisition 
of BrokerTec 
TriOptima
launches bilateral 
compression
TriOptima
launches CCP 
compression
Launch of  
triResolve
Acquisition 
of Traiana 
Acquisition of 
MyTreasury
Acquisition  
of EBS Reset  
– 25% stake
Remainder  
of Reset in  
3 tranches 
Remaining stake 
in TriOptima 
and stake in 
AcadiaSoft
Investment  
in Duco
Investments  
in ENSO
Further investment 
in AcadiaSoft, Duco 
and investment in 
Abide Financial
Investment in 
OpenGamma
Banks invest 
in Traiana with 
implied valuation 
of £185m
Launch of  
Traiana  
CreditLink
Launch of of 
EBS Direct
Launch of 
BrokerTec 
Direct
Acquisition 
of ENSO and 
investments 
in Cloud9 
Technologies  
and Digital  
Asset Holdings
EBS Direct for 
FX forwards/
corporates
TriOptima 
expands 
compression  
to CME and  
FX forwards
Launch  
of EBS 
eFix
Launch of  
EBS Select
2015
2008
2014
2007
2013
2006
2012
2005
2011
2004
2010
2003
2009
2002
2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW 
continued
Q
How has ICAP  
performed this year?
A
For the year ended 31 March 2016, the Group reported 
revenue of £1,201 million, 6% below the prior year. On  
a constant currency basis, revenue from Post Trade Risk and 
Information was up 5% which was offset by decreases of  
4% in Electronic Markets and 5% in Global Broking (excluding  
closed desks).
During the course of the year, the Group’s trading performance 
was impacted by the ongoing combination of structural and 
cyclical factors including historically low and negative interest 
rates, low levels of volatility and bank deleveraging resulting  
in reduced risk appetite from bank customers. This was partly  
offset by the increase in trading activity in emerging market 
currency pairs on EBS Market, and greater demand for risk 
mitigation products such as triReduce and triResolve.
Consistent with the Group’s growth strategy, ICAP continues  
to make significant investment in all divisions. During the year  
the Group invested £96 million in new business lines including 
forwards on EBS Direct, BrokerTec Direct and triResolve Margin. 
The Group reported a trading operating profit of £221 million, 
1 2% down on the prior year. The Group’s trading operating  
profit margin reduced to 18% (2014/15: 20%). The decrease  
in the trading operating profit includes the negative impact  
of the year-on-year adverse movement from FX losses of 
£11 million. Excluding the FX loss, the trading operating profit 
reduced by 8% on the prior year. Additionally, the synergies 
achieved in the year from the 2014/15 cost savings programme 
were reinvested during the year in the development of new 
products and technological solutions across the businesses. 
The proportion of the Group’s trading operating profit generated 
from the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information 
divisions increased to 79%, reflecting a 4 percentage point 
increase on the prior year. 
Group trading profit before tax of £203 million and trading  
EPS (basic) of 24.6p were 11% and 14% down on the prior  
year respectively. Profit before tax was £89 million (2014/15:  
£95 million).
BrokerTec/EBS growth  
in algorithmic trading/ 
non-bank customers
Growth of FX 
prime brokerage 
underpins growth 
of Traiana
Basel III/SLR drives 
increased demand 
for compression
EMIR requirements for 
portfolio reconciliation 
underpin triResolve
Market share gains/ 
migration from voice  
drives growth of EM 
currencies on EBS
* Ranges are an approximation for the estimated start of each respective trend.
“ T r a di n g c o n di t io n s 
continue to be 
challenging as a result 
of the macroeconomic 
environment but ICAP 
has continued to invest in 
products and services.”
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
6
