 Dear shareholders,
In November 2015, we announced that we had entered  
into the Transaction which will, when completed, involve the 
disposal of our global hybrid voice broking and information 
business to Tullett Prebon. We see our future as a financial 
technology company and a post trade services group. 
We, the board, questioned every step of the negotiations to  
make sure we had secured the best terms for our shareholders: 
we are satisfied that the Transaction will create value for you  
and your support at the shareholder meetings in March was  
most encouraging.
Many people in ICAP have been involved at various stages of the 
Transaction and I would like to thank them for their hard work. 
This includes members of the GEMG who, while still managing 
their businesses, committed a significant amount of time to the 
Transaction. On the board’s behalf, I would like to thank Michael  
in particular, for without his support and outstanding commitment 
the Transaction would not be happening.
Reinforcing culture
Advancing and maintaining the right corporate culture is  
a key part of the board’s agenda. We define our culture as  
our personality as it encapsulates what we value and believe  
in as an organisation and how we behave, both collectively  
and individually. There has been much discussion on the need  
for cultural change within the financial services industry.  
We have a strong culture already: what we must do now is  
reinforce it through clear articulation and greater alignment 
across all our businesses.
Our culture is underpinned by our commitment to the highest 
standards of professional conduct. This is essential to maintaining 
the trust of our customers and to achieving sustainable financial 
performance. During 2015/16 we have strengthened this 
foundation using a number of new measures. They include a new 
Group training programme which uses recently publicised cases 
within the financial services industry to highlight examples of 
unacceptable behaviour and the effect they have on individuals 
and the institutions they work for. These training tools have 
helped to define behavioural boundaries. 
The board monitors conduct risk and we are developing an 
aggregated dashboard to track our performance in this area.  
All this activity is supported by a strong ethos that good 
professional conduct must be the norm and is in all of our  
best interests. We do not tolerate misconduct which, should  
it occur, is dealt with swiftly and rigorously.
We strive to be a good 
investment, a great employer 
and a valued contributor to our 
communities, year after year. 
GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS’ REPORT
CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
36 A review of our FX business during the year highlighted how 
effective we have been at instilling this culture within our 
organisation. The review formed part of an FCA planned cross-
market remediation exercise following enforcement action against 
a number of banks because of their business practices. I chaired 
the committee responsible for our internal review and am happy 
to report that our findings, overseen by external assessors, gave 
me confidence that we are setting high standards and have created 
an environment in which issues are quickly escalated and addressed.
Advancing investor relations 
It is important that our policies on pay are consistent with our 
values. We highlighted in our 2014 Annual Report that we would 
be introducing a new remuneration policy for executive directors 
with effect from 1 April 2015 to ensure that the structure going 
forward was aligned with the Company’s strategic objectives,  
in the long-term interests of shareholders and in line with best 
practice, including that of financial regulators. 
During the year we consulted with a number of shareholders 
representing more than 50% of our share capital together  
with relevant proxy advisory bodies, including Institutional 
Shareholder Services (ISS) which represents a number of 
institutional shareholders, on our remuneration proposals. 
Shareholders we consulted with were broadly supportive  
of our initial proposal and, in response to some comments,  
we made a number of small changes to the proposed plans. 
Due to a lack of engagement on ISS’s part, it was very difficult  
to consult with them until the design phase had all but been 
completed and the new arrangements were due to be 
implemented. The result was a lack of time to provide ISS with 
sufficient context to the changes and a recommendation from 
ISS to vote against both our remuneration policy and the 2015 
remuneration report. While we recognise that all proxy advisory 
bodies have limited resources with which to engage with FTSE 350 
companies, we do not feel it is appropriate for stewards of 
shareholdings, particularly of those held in tracker or index funds 
which, by their nature, have less opportunity to sell shares in those 
companies whose governance policies they do not approve of, to 
exercise their stewardship on important matters without a proper 
understanding of the background to proposals. 
As pressure has grown on institutional shareholders to exercise 
their voting rights, the providers of proxy voting services have 
become more influential. We understand why many institutional 
shareholders favour proxy voting and we try to have the same 
open and constructive dialogue with proxy voting firms on our 
corporate governance that we have with our own shareholders.
When a proxy firm recommends voting against a remuneration 
policy, going forward we would welcome the opportunity to 
address their concerns with our shareholders before the vote to 
ensure we can fully explain the rationale for the decisions made.  
I have written to ISS, one of the most active proxy voting firms, 
and to the FRC setting out my views, to ensure that proxy voting 
bodies fully understand the impact of their recommendations  
on companies and to ask for the fairer treatment of companies.
Strengthening our leadership
The board is committed to promoting good governance and ensuring 
that the Group’s leadership team possesses the appropriate skills 
and experience to deliver long-term shareholder value. 
We have made a number of significant appointments during the 
year. We welcomed Stuart Bridges to the board in September,  
as our new Group Finance Director, and Jenny Knott in August,  
as Chief Executive Officer of the PTRI division, and both became 
members of the GEMG. In November, Tim Cartledge, Chief 
Strategy Officer of EBS BrokerTec, Steve Gibson, Chief Executive 
Officer of Euclid Opportunities and Per SjÖ berg, Chief Executive 
Officer of TriOptima, were also appointed to the GEMG. These 
appointments strengthen the leadership of the Group; they all 
have strong track records in financial services and have had a 
positive impact on the Group.
Diane Schueneman resigned as a non-executive director with 
effect from 31 December 2015 because of her appointment  
and commitments as a non-executive director of Barclays PLC.  
I would like to thank Diane for her considerable contribution  
to the board and to the Group as a whole. As yet we have not 
appointed a new non-executive director as we will be reviewing 
the composition of the board in light of the changes to our 
business model following completion of the Transaction.
I am proud to be part of a board that has such high levels of 
engagement and enthusiasm. In my experience, having board 
members who are involved, accessible and approachable is 
essential to good governance. I enjoy coming into the office  
and being able to see for myself how our people go about  
their business.
The structure of the Group may be changing but our ambitions 
remain the same. We strive to be a good investment, a great 
employer and a valued contributor to our communities, year  
after year. Thank you for continuing to support these goals. 
Charles Gregson
Chairman
16 May 2016
In this governance and directors’ report
Leadership  
Read more, pages 40 and 41
Effectiveness  
Read more, pages 45 to 47
Accountability  
Read more, pages 48 to 53
Relations with shareholders  
Read more, pages 43 and 44
Remuneration  
Read more, pages 59 to 70
ICAP plc Annual Report 2016
37
Definitions Financial statements Governance and directors’ report Strategic report
