 Overview of Operational Performance
We are pleased to report that the Group 
performed strongly during the year with double 
digit growth in both revenues and adjusted 
profits, including good contributions from 
organic growth and recent acquisitions.
The year saw the continued expansion of 
our digital services platform which, through 
a combination of internal development 
and technology acquisition, is increasingly 
underpinning deliveries of new products and 
services across the Group in a more efficient 
and sustainable way. 
Management focus during the year has 
continued to be in accelerating the expansion 
of the digital services platform, completing 
and consolidating recent acquisitions, and  
in continuing the drive for further productivity 
improvements and performance across  
the Group.
Public Sector Software (‘PSS’)
The Public Sector Software business, which 
represented 53% of Group revenues for the 
year, had a particularly strong performance 
with revenues up 14%. The year saw significant 
elections activity and we delivered services in 
support of Local Elections, the EU referendum 
and a new e-count solution for the Scottish 
Government to be used in the local elections  
in May 2017.
The digital service platform has been 
instrumental in delivering new solutions  
and add-on products to our existing 
customers with a combined value of £2.9m. 
The platform has been used to provide 
integration for the new national online  
planning and building standards services  
for the Scottish Government, as well as 
providing the infrastructure for a new  
suite of platform independent mobile 
applications for use across our core  
back office software solutions. 
The framework has also provided the capability 
to write new back office applications and 
underpins the long term upgrade strategy for 
our existing back office applications. The first 
of these new systems is a new national election 
system for Northern Ireland, on which we plan 
to build a next generation platform for the wider 
UK and future international expansion. 
The iApply service, also based on the digital 
service platform, was launched earlier in the 
year to provide a national planning application 
service; it has been successfully extended to 
provide online licensing and building control 
applications, achieving a monthly transaction 
volume of over 10,000 applications by the 
end of the financial year. The platform will be 
expanded during the current financial year to 
deliver further customer journeys with a vision 
of delivering a comprehensive suite of services 
for local government over the next three years.
We have continued to see further market share 
gains with 90 new local authority customers in 
the year, 19 new system sales and a further 11 
managed service customers. 
The integration of the Facilities Management 
business within the public sector team during 
the prior year has continued to deliver benefits 
in terms of improved sales performance 
and cross selling opportunities. Revenues 
within Facilities Management grew by 11%. 
Key contracts wins included Carillion, SSS 
Managed Services and Pinsent Masons.
“ Idox performed strongly during the year  
with double digit growth in both revenue  
and adjusted profits”
Chief Executive’s Review
Andrew Riley
Chief Executive Officer
Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2016 10 Overview Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Company 
Information
Our Transport business (formerly Cloud Amber) 
was held back in the first half of the year by the 
need to focus on completing the delivery of two 
complex sales contracted prior to acquisition. 
One of these was a new integrated transport 
management system for a new bus station in 
Perth Australia. This underground bus station 
is Australia’s first to work more like an airport, 
with buses departing from different stands for 
each trip to maximise efficiency with the flow of 
buses and passengers being fully controlled by 
our software solutions.
A significant milestone was achieved with 
our next generation adaptive control platform 
that has successfully completed field trials 
throughout a number of key road junctions 
in Southampton, enabling real time control of 
traffic lights. This development paves the way 
for our next generation of fully adaptive artificial 
intelligence algorithms enabling pioneering 
policy lead control of the road network. 
The business finished the year strongly with a 
major project win either side of the year end.
Digital
Reading Room has performed well in its first 
full year within the Group, delivering revenues 
of £9.1m and an improved EBITDA margin of 
13%. The business has been fully integrated 
and rebranded as Idox Digital and, with the 
acquisition of Rippleffect, has become a true 
full service digital agency. 
The business is working in collaboration 
with other parts of the Group, in support of 
delivering the digital service platform and 
combined product and service offerings. The 
main successes have been in delivering Unified 
Travel Information Portals in Cornwall and 
Northamptonshire that provide an end to end 
one stop shop in which all modes of transport, 
cars, taxis, buses, DRT, flights, trains including 
walking and cycling are included so that 
travellers can make informed choices.
Other significant contracts in the period 
included delivery of the new Royal Family 
website, and systems for the Ministry of 
Defence, NHS, British Cycling and RPC.
11 Strategic Report > Chief Executive’s Review Grants
The Grants business continued to increase  
its customer base, and deliver bigger grants  
on a success fee basis for larger customers. 
We have seen acceleration in the adoption 
of the Research Connect platform within 
European Universities via our new pan-
European sales team. 
Compliance
Revenue in our compliance business declined 
by 28% to £4.4m, which was partly the 
result of aligning its year end to Idox’s after 
a very strong prior year. This was further 
compounded by a decline in demand for  
our core compliance e-learning programmes. 
Some R&D and sales issues were resolved 
in the second half of the year, which has 
resulted in significant new contract wins in  
the first month of the new financial year, 
including sales to a major German airline  
and a leading German tools provider. 
Engineering Information  
Management (‘EIM’)
The EIM business returned to modest growth 
with revenues up 3% to £14.1m and a much 
improved EBITDA margin increasing to 23% 
from 16%. It has benefited from early and 
decisive action taken in the prior year to realign 
the business following the global market 
decline in oil and gas capital projects activity.
EIM has achieved key contracts wins, 
including Odebrecht, BNP Paribas, Strabag, 
Weherhauser, PM Group and a reseller 
agreement with Amplexor. It also continued 
to make further productivity gains, and is well 
poised to benefit from any improvement in its 
core markets, while continuing to invest in its 
new Cloud based services. 
Acquisitions
The Group has made two acquisitions in the 
second half of the year: Rippleffect and Open 
Objects. Both acquisitions have been made to 
support our objectives of expanding our digital 
capability and extending our presence within 
the public sector. Both businesses will have 
been fully integrated into the Group, ahead of 
schedule, by the end of calendar year 2016.
Open Objects, acquired in July, provides digital 
services to the social care and health markets 
within the UK, enabling citizens and care 
providers to engage digitally in care provision. 
In addition to providing significant penetration 
into the social care and health markets, 
the acquisition expands the digital service 
platform’s capability, especially within data 
management. The business supplies solutions 
to social care departments within the UK and 
has expanded its presence since acquisition 
with new wins from Warrington and London 
Borough of Waltham Forest.
Rippleffect, acquired in August, is a digital 
agency based in Liverpool that completes our 
skills and technical capability by providing the 
Group with an e-commerce capability for use 
within the digital service platform under the 
Idox Digital Brand. The business has a focus 
on sport and has 7 premiership football clubs 
as customers with wins since acquisition 
including Middlesbrough FC. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2016 12 Overview Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Company 
Information
Markets 
The Group continues to operate successfully 
and has grown in challenging markets 
despite continuing pressure on government 
expenditure and grant funding. We see no 
change in outlook for our core markets, 
whilst the diversity of our offerings and tight 
integration of our businesses into a single 
management structure continues to allow  
us to take advantage of opportunities and 
respond to challenges.
We have seen minor delays in customer 
decision making as a consequence of the EU 
referendum, and we expect this to continue 
through the period of uncertainty around the 
nature of the UK’s exit. The Board expects the 
Group to ultimately be a beneficiary due to our 
key role in implementing the required changes 
to legislation within our core systems.
Growth Strategy 
The Group has refocused on become a 
leading international supplier of software, 
services, managed services and content to 
the wider public sector, whilst continuing to 
deliver service to private sector customers  
as well. 
Following recent acquisitions, Idox has 
presence across all UK public sector markets 
and it is the Board’s intention to accelerate the 
consolidation of the Group’s presence within 
these markets in the same way it has done 
within the UK Local Government market space. 
In addition, we will also seek international 
expansion opportunities. 
The Group’s investment strategy in the 
coming year is to continue the development 
of the digital service platform and to build the 
commercial teams to facilitate its growth. 
The Board believes that channel shift and 
automation remain fundamental to the 
delivery of public services and that the Group 
remains well placed to support not only local 
government but the wider public sector to 
achieve this. 
The business is on schedule to deliver its  
target of £100m revenues in the short to 
medium-term.
Andrew Riley
Chief Executive Officer
13 December 2016
13 Strategic Report > Chief Executive’s Review
