 I am pleased to report a year of strong progress for Idox, driven by organic growth complemented 
by contributions from acquisitions. The success of Idox continued to be underpinned by its 
strategy of positioning itself as a key partner enabling customers to achieve significant efficiencies 
through digital technologies.
In generally stable markets, the Group continued to benefit from its diversified business model 
and sources of earnings which helped mitigate challenges in some of our smaller markets. 
A summary of our financial key performance indicators is presented below:
2016 2015 Change
Revenue £76.7m £62.6m 23%
Adjusted EBITDA* £21.5m £18.2m 18%
Adjusted EBITDA* margin 28% 29% -1%
Adjusted EPS** 4.11p 3.28p 25%
*  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before depreciation, amortisation, restructuring, acquisition,  
corporate finance and share option costs
**  Adjusted EPS excludes amortisation on acquired intangibles, restructuring and acquisition costs
Results
Idox grew revenue by 23% to a record £76.7m and achieved an 18% increase in Adjusted 
EBITDA. The overall Group margin was slightly lower than the prior year due to the anticipated 
change in mix of election and digital services revenues. 
As in previous years, a significant percentage (82%; 2015: 88%) of Idox’s annual revenues were 
derived either from recurring contracts with customers or from repeat customers from whom the 
Group had derived revenues in the prior year; this gives the Group significant revenue visibility  
and is evidence of Idox’s strong relationships and focus on customer service. 
Group Strategy 
Idox has a strong reputation and market leading positions principally in important segments of  
the public sector software market in the United Kingdom and Europe. The Group partners with 
its customers so they can achieve efficiency savings using digital technology.
The Group’s strategy is to become a much larger business by establishing and building on its 
leading market positions by extending its public sector domains and expanding its delivery of 
digital services across all areas of local government. This will be achieved through a combination 
of organic and acquisitive growth. This is intended to deliver double digit annual revenue growth 
with a short to medium term objective of £100m of revenues at sustainable margins.
“ The Group has made strategic progress towards positioning 
itself as a key partner for its customers to achieve efficiency  
savings through the use of digital technology.”
Chairman’s Statement
Laurence Vaughan
Chairman
Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2016 04 Overview Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Company 
Information
Acquisitions 
During the financial year, two acquisitions 
were completed in line with our strategy, both 
of which contributed to the year’s financial 
performance whilst expanding our capabilities 
and providing cross selling opportunities. The 
Group has a strong track record of acquisition 
integration and delivering earnings enhancing 
contributions from such transactions. The 
recent acquisitions were:
• Open Objects Software Limited (‘Open 
Objects’) in July 2016 broadened our 
capability in the important social care 
market where the Group has historically 
been under-represented
• Rippleffect Studio Limited (‘Rippleffect’) 
in August 2016 added e-commerce 
consultancy expertise to add to our  
digital capabilities 
• In addition, there was a strong contribution 
from the acquisition of Reading Room, 
completed just prior to the previous year 
end in October 2015.
Together these acquisitions have enhanced 
our capabilities, such that we can now deliver 
content, domain specific solutions, managed 
and hosted services and web services to 
improve processes, productivity and customer 
engagement in all of our chosen domains.
Dividends
The Board is pleased to propose, subject to 
shareholder approval at the Company’s Annual 
General Meeting, a final dividend of 0.650p 
(2015: 0.525p), bringing the total for the year 
to 1p. This represents an increase of 18% 
over the previous year total of 0.850p, and is 
consistent with both our strong performance in 
the year and our progressive dividend policy to 
grow dividends in line with earnings growth. 
The Board
On 10 November 2016, we announced some 
significant board changes as part of our 
succession planning. Richard Kellett-Clarke 
stepped down as Chief Executive and Andrew 
Riley, previously the Group’s Chief Operating 
Officer (COO), was appointed Chief Executive. 
Andrew’s appointment ensures continuity of 
both leadership and strategy and he takes 
over at a time when the business is in the best 
shape it has ever been. Andrew joined the 
Group in 2000 and was Managing Director of 
Idox’s Public Sector Software Division from 
2011 before becoming COO. Richard will 
remain at Idox as a Non-Executive Director, 
until the end of the current financial year 
ending 31 October 2017, to ensure an orderly 
handover and to assist with the integration 
of recent acquisitions and the ongoing 
development of the Group’s strategy. 
Richard has played a key role in the 
transformation of Idox over the last ten 
years, first as Finance Director, then as Chief 
Operating Officer and most recently as Chief 
Executive. From joining the Group in 2006 
he has been instrumental in establishing and 
delivering the Group’s organic and acquisition 
growth strategy, resulting in a near fifteen-
fold increase in the share price and market 
capitalisation over that time. We thank him  
for his significant contribution to the Group. 
In January 2016, the Board was pleased 
to appoint Barbara Moorhouse as a non-
Executive Director; she has more than 25 years 
of management experience across the private 
and public sectors and replaces Dame Wendy 
Hall who stepped down in December 2015. 
05 Strategic Report > Chairman’s Statement Outlook
The Group has started the new financial year 
strongly building on the good performance 
and organic and acquisitive growth of 2016. 
We also believe there is a relatively stable 
outlook in all our markets notwithstanding 
recent political developments. We have 
integrated recent acquisitions and have had 
early successes winning contracts in the new 
financial year in a number of our segments in 
both the UK and Europe. The importance to 
our customers of achieving efficiency through 
the effective use of information technology 
should not be underestimated.
The encouraging adoption of the Government’s 
digital services initiative by the public sector 
and local government especially, and the early 
success of blending this with our recently 
acquired digital capability, has encouraged us 
to accelerate our developments in this area. We 
believe this growth in digital engagement will 
benefit our Public Sector Software business as 
its products are focused on delivering savings 
and helping local authorities improve their 
consumer experiences.
 
The Board remains confident that the Group is 
well positioned in its markets and will continue 
to perform well in 2017 given its strong revenue 
visibility, order book and pipeline. The Group 
remains on track to achieve its target of £100m 
of revenues at sustainable margins in the short 
to medium term, through a combination of 
organic growth and acquisitions.
Overall, the outlook for Idox in the coming 
years is therefore very positive and our 
expectations for the Group’s financial 
performance are unchanged.
Laurence Vaughan
Chairman
13 December 2016
Chairman’s Statement continued
+23%
£76.7m
2014 2015 2016
£60.7m
£62.6m
Revenue
Idox plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 October 2016 06 Overview Strategic Report Governance
Financial 
Statements
Company 
Information
“In Leeds the majority of applications are 
now submitted electronically. The major 
benefits of using iApply are the ease at which 
applications are retrieved and it makes the 
application forms much easier to read, as 
they are the forms set by regulation.“
Susan Holden,  
Principal Licensing Officer, Leeds City Council
07 Strategic Report > Chairman’s Statement
