 14 15 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
What We Do
STOCKBROKING
In July we began pilot-testing our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK on both web and mobile 
platforms, representing our first significant diversification 
out of leveraged products. Once fully operational, our 
stockbroking service is expected to offer market-leading 
advantages for clients, including:
• Improved underlying and live pricing sourced from 
multiple trading venues
• Transparent access to a broad range of international 
equities, with cost-effective currency conversions to 
facilitate trading within an ISA/NISA
• Superior trading tools across multiple platforms  
and devices, powered by our existing award- 
winning technology 
• Direct market access available as a standard feature,  
free of additional charge
BINARIES 
Our pioneering binary contracts are based on a single 
question: ‘Will the underlying market behave in a specific 
way before the contract expires?’. Clients use their 
knowledge of the financial markets to predict whether the 
answer will be yes or no.
• Our binaries enable clients to trade with limited risk 
• Binaries are unrestricted by low volatility, remaining 
attractive to clients when markets are relatively stable
• This year we have added ‘sprint markets’ – high-speed, 
limited-risk trades which offer clients the opportunity to 
trade in even the flattest markets
NORTH AMERICAN DERIVATIVES  
EXCHANGE (NADEX) 
Nadex is our US derivatives exchange, enabling US 
investors to trade options on global financial markets in 
retail-sized contracts. 
• Nadex is the first and largest US-based retail- 
oriented exchange 
• We provide a flexible way for our clients to trade with 
limited risk
• The main product on Nadex is the binary option
HOW WE GENERATE REVENUE  
AND PROFIT
Our principal revenue sources are the dealing spreads 
or commission charges we apply to each transaction, 
according to the asset and product type being traded. 
As clients are trading on margin, we also levy a financing 
charge for positions held overnight. 
We derive our earnings from the volume of our clients’ 
dealing transactions, which is influenced by the level 
of activity in the underlying financial markets. Since our 
clients can choose to ‘buy’ or ‘sell’, dealing volumes can be 
maintained, and we are able to profit, irrespective of the 
direction in which markets are moving.
Our centralised operating model enables us to consolidate 
the market risk associated with client trades from around 
the globe, which lessens our requirement to hedge due to 
the net impact of clients buying and selling the same asset, 
and so reduces risk and cost. This model also enables us 
to maintain low-cost and capital-efficient processes, while 
robust risk-management procedures help us monitor and 
control the impact of market and credit risk.
WHAT WE DO (CONTINUED)
SPREAD BETTING 
Financial spread betting in the UK and Ireland is a tax-free
(1)
 way to deal by betting on the price  
movement of an asset. The size of a client’s win or loss depends on the magnitude and direction of the price movement. 
• We are the UK’s largest and longest-running spread betting provider
(2) 
• We hold 41% of the UK financial spread betting market
(3)
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a spread bet can be used to ‘buy’ a market when you expect it to rise. 
This is known as ‘going long’. In this scenario, a subsequent rise in the market price results in a profit for the client while a 
fall results in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a spread bet on 
page 156.
(1) Tax laws are subject to change and depend on individual circumstances. 
(2) No.1 spread betting provider: number of active UK financial spread betting accounts (Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013).
(3)  By number of active primary accounts. All market share data presented in this report is provided by Investment Trends Pty Limited (please refer to the Investor 
Resources section on page 165 for further details).
MARKET 
RISE 
1000
1001
1002
0998
0999
If you expect the market  
to rise, you ‘buy’ at the  
OFFER PRICE
GOING LONG
THE
SPREAD
IG BUY/OFFER 
PRICE
MARKET 
FALL
UNDERLYING 
MARKET VALUE
IG SELL/BID 
PRICE
SIZE (£ PER POINT)
£10.00
THE DEAL
You open a position for £10.00 per point  
at the offer price of 1001
BUY/OFFER PRICE
1001
MARKET PRICE RISES
MARKET PRICE FALLS
SELL/BID PRICE
1007
PROFIT
£60.00
SELL/BID PRICE
0991
LOSS
£100.00
The market moves by eight points
| Strategic Report 16 17 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Our Strategic Objectives
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OUR BUSINESS MODEL
STRATEGIC 
OBJECTIVES
PROGRESS IN 2014 PRIORITIES FOR 2015
ADDRESS THE 
NEEDS OF ACTIVE 
TRADERS
• Completed the technical development for our 
execution-only stockbroking service in the UK 
• Extended trading hours on over 20 key US equities, 
enabling clients to trade outside the core US stock 
market hours
• Successfully offered a number of pre-IPO  
grey markets
• Introduced sprint markets to allow clients to quickly 
take advantage of opportunities, even in relatively 
flat markets
• Launch and grow our 
stockbroking service in the UK
• Roll out our stockbroking service 
to at least one country outside 
the UK
• Increase the number of extended-
hours US stocks offered
ACHIEVE, 
MAINTAIN OR 
EXTEND MARKET 
LEADERSHIP 
• Maintained our UK market leadership position in 
spread betting and increased our lead in CFDs, with 
over 59,000 active clients trading during the year
• Increased our Australian CFD market leadership 
to 20 percentage points, with around 18,000 active 
clients trading with us during the year
• Retained our number one position in forex in 
Singapore and became the number two provider  
of CFDs
• Increase our growth rate in the 
UK through the introduction of 
our stockbroking service
• Increase growth in Europe against 
improving market backdrop
• Manage the impact of the 
proposed forex leverage 
reductions in Singapore 
• Grow the business across APAC, 
using Australia as the hub
STRENGTHEN 
GLOBAL 
PRESENCE
• Prepared IG Switzerland office for launch
• Continued to grow our European business, where 
revenues increased by 15.6% over the prior year
• Introduced two additional market makers to 
the Nadex exchange, one of which has been 
consistently providing additional liquidity since 
joining, and increased revenue by 54.6%
• Completed the consolidation of our global  
brand under IG.com, helping us to optimise our 
search rankings and create a recognisable single 
identity worldwide
• Launch our CFD offering  
in Switzerland
• Open our office in Dubai
• Continue exploring opportunities 
to serve additional countries  
in APAC
• Develop the introduced-business 
model for the Nadex exchange
DELIVER QUALITY 
SERVICE TO 
CLIENTS
• Radically improved payments process, leading to 
faster payments to/from clients
• Implemented further improvements to online self-
service functionality to enhance client experience
• Achieved joint-first ranking in IPSOS mystery-
shopper exercise
• Received rating of ‘good’ or ‘very good’ from 89% 
of spread bettors and 88% of CFD traders who 
responded to independently conducted  
satisfaction surveys
(1)
• Continue to focus on delivering 
industry-leading customer service
• Develop more multi-channel 
support for our clients, eg social 
media, live chat, mobile, self-service
• Improve access to our global 
support teams around the clock 
• Optimise our support tools 
in order to improve efficiency 
and provide a more joined-up 
customer service experience
SUSTAIN 
TECHNOLOGY 
LEADERSHIP
• Built a version of IG.com for mobile devices
• Launched iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7
• Increased the suite of mobile apps for Nadex 
• Increased mobile engagement through push 
notifications of key market movements, technical 
analysis and macro-economic events 
• Maintained consistently high levels of  
platform uptime
• Extend availability of full version 
of IG.com to all mobile platforms
• Continue to support new 
products, eg stockbroking
• Invest in mobile app 
development to increase rate of 
client sign-ups
• Continue to maintain consistent 
platform uptime
We have developed a business model that harnesses the demand 
from active traders for fast, flexible and secure online trading.
We attract clients globally via a number of 
channels, including:
• Our international network of offices, 
through local seminars and public-
relations exercises
• Our multi-channel brand and targeted 
advertising campaigns
• Our optimised online and  
app-store presence
• Our worldwide network of  
high-quality partners
Our clients can trade across a wide variety of markets, geographies and asset classes.
OUR CLIENTS
FINANCIAL MARKETS
OUR TECHNOLOGY
OUR PRODUCTS
HIGH-CALIBRE STAFF
STRENGTH AND STABILITY
AUTHORITY AND EXPERTISE 
CLIENT FOCUS
KPIs  
(SEE PAGE 24)
REVENUE
REVENUE PER 
CLIENT
ACTIVE CLIENTS
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
DILUTED EARNINGS 
PER SHARE
CASH GENERATION
DIVIDEND PER 
SHARE
PLATFORM UPTIME
NET PROMOTER 
SCORE
KEY RISKS  
(SEE PAGE 42) 
CREDIT
MARKET
LIQUIDITY
OPERATIONAL
REGULATORY
CONDUCT
TECHNOLOGY
Indices Shares Forex Commodities
Other markets: Interest rates, bonds, ETFs and industry sectors
(1) Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013.
FX
| Strategic Report 18 19 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Our Strategy in Action
NEW STOCKBROKING SERVICE
In July we commenced pilot-testing of our execution-only 
stockbroking service in the UK across web and mobile 
platforms, representing our first significant diversification 
from leveraged trading. 
Our clients are active traders, and we strive to ensure  
that we offer the right products on the right platforms  
to address their needs. The launch of stockbroking in  
the UK enables clients to trade cash equities on IG’s  
award-winning platforms.
Prior to developing the service we conducted a survey of IG 
clients which suggested there is a complementary audience 
for cash equities: 60% of respondents told us that they also 
trade cash equities, and 65% of those said that they would 
consider moving their business to IG if we offered this service.
Over the last 40 years, retail trading 
in equities has become a mainstream 
activity in the UK. This is a significant 
opportunity for IG.
We have concluded that this is a market where we can add 
substantial value to these clients’ trading and create a new, 
profitable business stream for IG. 
The trading life of a cash equity client is generally longer 
than that of IG’s existing client base. Many of them are 
wealthy, and there is a constituency that trades very actively. 
We will have the potential to retain clients that lapse from 
CFD trading by offering them access to execution-only 
stockbroking on the same trading platform.
IG seeks to attract active traders, and the structure of our 
execution-only stockbroking offer is designed with that goal 
in mind:
• We offer price transparency, with the underlying real-time 
price being displayed throughout the trade, including 
when trading in overseas shares
• Where most platforms provide a passive trading 
experience, we enable clients to interact with the market 
order books to judge precisely the level at which they 
want to trade
• By adapting our existing state-of-the-art mobile-trading 
technology, we have been able to give our stockbroking 
clients the opportunity to trade wherever they like, on 
their device of choice
• The pricing of the offering has also been designed with 
the active trader in mind, with high volume driving lower 
commissions and low exchange-rate conversion fees 
when trading on overseas shares
This offering is clearly at a very early stage, with our first UK 
marketing campaign in September. We are launching the 
product in the UK initially before deciding on the precise 
order and extent of any international rollout.
In adding stockbroking to our platforms we have 
demonstrated our focus on understanding the needs of 
active traders. We will continue to ensure this understanding 
informs both improvements to our existing products and 
our new product development.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS  
OF ACTIVE TRADERS
In this section 
we explain 
our strategic 
objectives in more 
depth, and focus 
on some examples 
of our progress  
in each.
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF ACTIVE TRADERS
The most valuable clients are those who trade most frequently or in the 
largest deal size. It is therefore imperative that our platforms, services and 
products address the needs of these clients. Our investment in technology 
and commitment to client service focuses on active traders, while we are 
conscious of the need to deliver an excellent trading experience for all. 
See page 19
See page 23
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
We have offices in 15 countries, serving clients in over 140 countries, 
and we continue to seek opportunities to grow our client base in both 
established and new regions. In the last 18 months we have opened three 
new offices, in Dublin, Oslo and Geneva, and our Swiss licence application is 
in progress. Our single global identity – IG – is designed to help us develop 
our brand reach, increase our market penetration and target regional markets 
from the countries where we already operate.
See page 21
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
We strive to maintain absolute integrity in our relationship with clients, 
and we invest in training our team to ensure that we are delivering 
excellent client service. 
By combining this service with fast and reliable execution, transparent 
pricing and full segregation of retail client funds, we help our clients 
feel secure and confident in trading with us. We also support our clients 
with education, market insight resources and 24-hour technical help.
See page 22
See page 20
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
Our financial strength has enabled us to continually invest in IT  
development and infrastructure, and to build the superior platform 
technology, tools and resources our clients demand. Our market-leading 
position is underpinned by our platform’s award-winning performance and 
proven resilience – factors that are essential in maintaining high levels of 
client satisfaction and retention and keep us at the forefront of the industry.
(1)  No.1 CFD and spread betting provider: for CFDs, 
based on revenue excluding FX, published financial 
statements, July 2014; for spread betting, number 
of active UK financial spread betting accounts 
(Investment Trends UK Leveraged Trading Report, 
December 2013).
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND  
MARKET LEADERSHIP
We are a global leader in online trading and aim to be the default choice 
for active traders. We are currently the No.1 global provider of CFDs and 
financial spread betting
(1)
 and a recognised authority on financial trading, with 
our expert opinion often sought by the media and regulatory bodies. 
We have achieved our position at the forefront of the industry by recruiting 
talented people, developing superior technology and providing clients with 
the tools and products they require. We continue to leverage these key 
advantages to maintain or establish leadership in our major markets.
OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION
| Strategic Report
