 CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S REVIEW
‘2015 was another year 
of good progress on our 
strategic initiatives, coupled 
with a solid underlying set of 
financial results.’
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer
Underlying revenue, before the impact of the Swiss franc 
event in January – the detail of which I discuss later – was 
£400.2 million, up 8.0% from £370.4 million in the prior 
year. Underlying profit before tax was down by 0.9% at 
£193.2 million, with operating costs increasing to support the 
future growth of the business. Underlying diluted earnings 
per share was up by 2.1% to 41.07 pence, benefiting from 
a fall in the Group’s effective tax rate. On a statutory basis, 
profit before tax was down by 13% and earnings per share 
was down by 10.5%. The Group continues to invest to drive 
future growth. This year, this is reflected in the £27.3 million 
increase in underlying administrative expenses which 
includes the infrastructure and additional marketing to 
support the core business and various initiatives, including 
the expansion into Switzerland and Dubai, the roll-out of 
execution-only stockbroking and investments in mobile and 
web-based technology.
TRADING PERFORMANCE
 We achieved double-digit underlying 
revenue growth in the UK, Australia 
and Rest of World, which together 
comprise 80% of our revenues. 
This growth was driven by the combination of higher active 
client numbers and higher average revenue per client in 
the UK and Australia, and strong client growth in Rest of 
World. However, this was partially offset by a 1.5% fall in 
European revenue.
While Europe continues to see good growth in active client 
numbers, which were up 14.3%, this was more than offset 
by a fall in revenue per client and as a result revenue was 
slightly down. A number of factors have contributed to the 
fall in revenue per client: just over a third of this movement 
was caused by the weakness in the exchange rate of the 
euro against sterling; overnight funding revenue has fallen 
as clients have held fewer positions overnight; although the 
number of trades per client increased significantly, this was 
more than offset by a drop in the overall average trade size, 
reflecting a movement towards smaller size contracts; and 
through the second half, we also saw a widening of spreads in 
the underlying DAX futures contract, which increased the cost 
of hedging in what is the most popular traded product across 
our European business.
We saw notable growth in our US business, Nadex, which 
accelerated as the year progressed. Revenue was up 68% 
year-on-year and growth was strongest in the final quarter 
of the year, when revenue was more than double the same 
quarter of the prior year.
This growth was driven by a number of factors including the 
introduction of a second market maker a little over a year 
ago, on-going improvements to our marketing efficiency 
and various other operational enhancements, including the 
relocation of our IT infrastructure. Following this marked 
| 10 improvement in the growth rate of Nadex, in the final months 
of the year we increased our US marketing expenditure to 
take advantage of the improving return on investment that it 
was yielding. 
IMPACT OF THE SWISS FRANC EVENT
All of the above revenue figures and growth rates are stated 
before the impact of the Swiss franc de-peg on 15 January, 
which reduced revenue by £12 million and increased the 
bad debt charge by £15 million (net of recoveries). This was 
a market event of unprecedented proportions, with a major 
currency moving over 30% in a matter of minutes. We have 
spent considerable time reflecting on the lessons we can learn 
from this, and will continue to do so. Our first change is to 
introduce more extreme scenarios into our stress-testing and 
scenario planning and we are considering carefully the risk/
reward ratio on all aspects of our business. 
Of the 342 clients who initially owed us money as a result of 
the Swiss franc move, less than 100 remain outstanding. We 
recognise that the scale of the move was beyond anyone’s 
expectations and we are being sympathetic to debtors’ ability 
to pay, accepting less than the full amount of the debt where 
this is justified by the financial circumstances of the individual. 
Unfortunately a few clients, whom we believe to be financially 
sophisticated, with the means to pay their debts, have used 
social and more traditional media to generate adverse 
publicity for IG in an attempt, we believe, to avoid taking 
responsibility for their debts. We continue to encourage 
any remaining affected clients to make contact so that their 
individual circumstances can be taken into account in settling 
their account balance. We have provided a full reconciliation 
between the statutory numbers and those on an underlying 
basis, adjusting for the impact of this extreme event, in note 
2(a) to the financial statements.
The Swiss franc event had an immediate impact on some 
providers in our industry around the globe, which either 
went into insolvency or had to refinance to rebuild their 
balance sheets. 
At least one major hedging counterparty has withdrawn from 
the market, and we believe others are re-assessing who they 
want to do business with in future. I think it inevitable that the 
smaller players in our industry will find hedging relationships 
become harder and more expensive to secure. This may result 
in some consolidation across the industry or more industry 
players adopting a model that involves little or no hedging. 
The latter is unlikely to result in good consumer outcomes in 
the long run.
GEOGRAPHIC EXPANSION
In October we opened our office in Switzerland, having 
obtained a Swiss Banking licence that was necessary for us 
to do business there. This operation is performing according 
to our expectations and in line with the early growth rates we 
have seen in other European markets. Shortly after the year 
end we received our licence from the Dubai Financial Services 
Authority (DFSA) and opened for business in the Dubai 
International Financial Centre. To maximise effectiveness, 
the full marketing and PR launch of this business is planned 
for September, once the summer is over. Our licence from 
the DFSA is one of the first it has issued that enables the 
licence-holder to deal with retail clients; this opens up the 
market for IG to a much broader pool of potential clients than 
has previously been possible in Dubai.
 The challenges in obtaining the types 
of licence which we have been granted 
in both Switzerland and Dubai are 
considerable and we were subject to 
detailed and prolonged scrutiny by 
both regulators. I am delighted that 
we have been able to obtain these 
licences. This is testament to our 
ongoing investment in people, systems 
and processes to ensure that we 
remain fully compliant with the ever-
increasing regulatory burdens, both 
within our industry and on all financial 
businesses globally.
Subsequent to the year-end we obtained a representative 
office licence from the China Securities Regulatory 
Commission. This allows us to establish a small office in 
Shanghai, which will facilitate discussions with potential 
partners in China, but does not give us any right or ability 
to transact business in China. As I indicated in January this 
year, we continue to view China as an interesting future 
market for us, but one in which we anticipate that matters will 
develop slowly. 
PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION
In September we launched our stockbroking service in the 
UK, and have been pleased with the progress to date. We 
continue to see good recruitment of new clients – roughly 
65% of all funded stockbroking accounts are clients new to 
IG. Even more encouragingly, although the numbers will 
take some time to settle down, around 20% of those are 
going on to trade with our existing leveraged products. Early 
indications are that the clients who start with stockbroking 
and move on to our other products are, on average, at least 
as valuable as those clients who do not start via stockbroking. 
In March we began our international roll-out of this service 
with the launch in the Netherlands. While this is one of our 
smaller offices, we were able to complete the development 
work necessary to launch here quickly because the tax regime 
there made this less complex. In July 2015, we launched 
stockbroking in Germany – with the offering also available to 
Austrian clients. We will continue with a targeted international 
roll-out and expect to launch in most of our current countries 
over the coming years. 
11 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 | As well as extending our stockbroking offering internationally, 
as we continue our diversification strategy to appeal to a 
broader set of clients, we will also be seeking to increase 
its scope with the addition of innovative new products 
and services which we believe will extend the reach of 
our offering.
 To this end, IG recently entered into 
an agreement with BlackRock, the 
largest ETF provider globally, which 
will facilitate IG constructing a range 
of ETF-based investment portfolios for 
our clients. 
The details of this new service are still being worked through 
and we do not expect it to be fully operational until 2016. 
However, it fits with IG’s strategy of broadening our offering 
to cater for sophisticated investors as well as active traders. 
At IG we believe that portfolios composed of passive 
instruments such as ETFs have the potential to disrupt the 
investment management industry, as passive investing and 
ETFs become an integral part of investors’ portfolios. The 
new service will be delivered digitally and will leverage the 
capabilities of our existing stockbroking platform. We believe 
that this partnership with BlackRock can significantly broaden 
our reach beyond our existing client base and we consider it 
to be an exciting long-term opportunity.
RISK MANAGEMENT OPTIMISATION
Over the last decade our hedging has become progressively 
more cautious relative to the scale of IG, as risk limits have 
remained relatively stable while client numbers, trading 
volumes and Group revenue have grown significantly. 
Following further development of our back-end risk 
management systems, we commenced an extremely detailed 
analysis of our indices risk limits market-by-market. Our 
initial conclusions led to us increasing certain of our risk 
limits but, more importantly, during the period we made 
our main regional and global equity limits dynamic. This 
involves increasing the risk limit for a market when it is open, 
most liquid or when we are seeing most client activity in that 
market, and reducing the limit approaching market closing, 
or when liquidity or activity levels are reduced. We expect 
this approach will enable us to reduce our hedging costs 
and thus on average increase the revenue that we make per 
unit of volume. We do not expect this approach to materially 
impact the very high correlation that our revenue has to client 
volume, which we recognise as an important element of the 
IG investment case.
GROWING OUR ACTIVE CLIENT BASE
Over the long term we expect that growth in our business will 
be driven primarily by increasing the number of active clients 
and that this in turn will be driven mainly by the rate of client 
recruitment. We have a number of initiatives in progress which 
we envisage will lead to improvements in the rate of client 
recruitment across all of our businesses globally.
Over the last year we have made significant improvements 
to our data-driven digital marketing capability, both in terms 
of personnel and technology. As we have done so, we have 
been progressively optimising how and where we spend on 
digital marketing. We have greater confidence in our ability 
to track our marketing spend, to measure its effectiveness 
and to switch the focus rapidly to respond to opportunities. 
There is more work to be done to further optimise spending, 
but the initial results are encouraging and this contributed 
to the strong account opening we achieved throughout the 
second half of the year. The payback from digital marketing 
is good – on average a new trading client generates enough 
revenue to cover their marketing recruitment cost within their 
first three months. It therefore makes sense for us to continue 
to increase our marketing spend progressively, until we reach 
a point of diminishing returns from the incremental spending.
We are making ongoing incremental improvements to our 
‘conversion funnel’ – the journey which a client goes through 
from starting to complete our application form to funding 
their account and trading for the first time. These changes 
include implementing electronic ID verification in a number of 
additional countries and simplifying the process of capturing 
and uploading images of identity documents. 
 By eliminating manual steps from the 
conversion funnel and making the 
process as streamlined as possible, 
we expect to reduce the proportion of 
potential clients who drop out part-
way through the application process. 
In making these changes, we will 
not in any way compromise the high 
regulatory standards we apply during 
the account opening process.
We continue to develop multiple mobile applications to 
address different stages in the client journey. We will shortly 
be releasing a new educational app, IG Academy on iPhone. 
CHIEF  
EXECUTIVE 
OFFICER’S 
REVIEW 
(CONTINUED)
| 12 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 In the following sections, we will:
• Outline the products and services we provide for 
our retail and institutional clients
• Show how we are set up to provide support for our 
clients and meet their needs as they evolve over 
time, and the critical importance of our people and 
the values we live by to our success
• Summarise the rationale, the progress made in 
2014, the priorities for 2015, and the link to our 
business model for each of our strategic objectives
• Lastly then work through some examples of our 
strategy in action and our focus for 2015
The initial content of IG Academy comprises educational 
materials for prospective and new clients and it will act as a 
feeder into our suite of trading apps. Over time we intend to 
build the content of IG Academy to address the educational 
needs of clients with the full range of experience, everyone 
from newcomers to sophisticated traders wanting to learn 
advanced techniques. 
CAPITALISING ON TOP-LEVEL DOMAINS
As I have mentioned before we were successful in our 
application for seven generic top-level domains (gTLDs) 
that are directly relevant to our business. We made this 
investment to position our business for changes to the 
structure and usage of the internet and the drivers of search 
engine rankings, which we envisage will result from the recent 
significant expansion in the number of top-level domains. 
As a first step in exploiting these gTLDs we intend to build a 
significant number of specialised websites over the coming 
year. Some of these will be IG branded and be devoted to 
one aspect of our product set or service; for example, IG.forex 
will be devoted to our extensive forex offering. Others will 
be more generic and concentrate on one segment of our 
audience or one aspect of consumer need; for example, 
whatis.spreadbetting will provide generic education on 
financial spread betting. Each of these websites will have a 
tightly defined audience, subject matter and purpose as well 
as a highly relevant domain name. As a result, we expect that 
they will rank highly on search engines for topics relevant to 
the success of IG.
Alongside this, we will be encouraging third parties to buy 
licences for domain names on our gTLDs with the view that 
over time these gTLDs should become recognised as marks 
of authority and relevance and become synonymous with 
the products they represent. We have already made some 
early sales of domain name licences for .markets, the first of 
our gTLDs to go live. We do not view this as a business in its 
own right, but rather as a source of income which will partially 
offset the cost of developing our own websites using our 
gTLDs, aimed at increasing the level of client recruitment for 
our business. We currently expect the remaining gTLDs to go 
live during the first half of the current financial year. 
 We believe that all of the above 
initiatives, together with the ongoing 
development of our product offering, 
will help to drive the recruitment, 
conversion and long-term retention of 
good-quality clients.
By successfully expanding our client base globally we can 
ensure the next phase of growth for IG.
MY RETIREMENT
After 16 years at IG, seven as CFO and almost nine as CEO, 
I have informed the Board of my intention to retire.
Firstly and mainly, I would like to thank all of IG’s employees, 
past and present, for their hard work and dedication and 
for helping to make the last 16 years such an enjoyable 
and rewarding experience. I would also like to express my 
gratitude to the clients who have put their trust in IG over the 
years. I also want to thank the loyal shareholders who put their 
faith in IG and supported it with their investment. 
During my time at IG I have seen our business transform, as 
we have grown revenues from £12 million to an underlying 
£400 million. In my time as CEO, we have grown earnings per 
share from 10.88 pence to an underlying 41.07 pence, and 
have gone from less than 10% of our revenue coming from 
outside the UK to now almost 50%. Our group now has offices 
in 20 countries and includes a US regulated exchange and 
a Swiss Bank. This has been a great team effort. I have been 
surrounded by an extremely talented senior management 
team, a number of whom have been with me throughout my 
tenure as CEO, and I have every confidence that this team will 
continue to drive the business forward with the same degree 
of success. I very much look forward to seeing the more 
recent initiatives we have started together come to fruition 
over the coming years.
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer 
21 July 2015
13 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 |
