 10 11 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
Introducing Our Strategy
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
During the year we acquired a number of local domain 
names to support IG.com in specific countries, as well as 
investing in a number of new generic top-level domains 
(gTLDs) which are directly relevant to our business. This 
investment positions us well to take full advantage, over the 
coming years, of possible changes to the way people use 
and search the internet if, as we expect, gTLDs become an 
increasingly integral part of its structure.
Towards the end of the year we established an offshore IT 
and marketing development office in Eastern Europe, which 
is focused on recruiting and converting clients through 
mobile apps; around a third of all client trades are made 
using mobile apps. Our current apps are designed with our 
most experienced and demanding clients in mind, and we 
will continue to ensure we lead the industry in this category. 
However, this new team will focus on developing apps 
more suited to less-experienced new and potential clients, 
concentrating on early-stage education and simplification of 
the recruitment and conversion process through apps.
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
We continually monitor the quality of our service through a 
number of different methods, including a rolling survey of 
our client base and independent mystery-shopping which 
tests our customer service and that of our main competitors. 
We continue to score highly in these surveys, and during 
this year we saw an increase in levels of satisfaction with the 
quality of our customer service.
During this year we introduced ‘Think Tank’, an online forum 
for invited clients to provide feedback on various aspects 
of our products, platforms and services. This new resource 
has proved valuable in more formally incorporating clients’ 
suggestions and comments into our development process. 
I am extremely grateful to those clients who participate in 
Think Tank for the time and thought they devote to helping 
us shape our offering. 
REGULATION
Although there are few tangible signs of progress by the 
11 EU member states seeking to introduce a financial 
transaction tax (FTT) under the enhanced-cooperation 
process, the rhetoric suggests that eventually we will see 
some form of levy on financial transactions. However, we 
continue to believe that any tax would be considerably less 
onerous than originally proposed, and could most easily 
take a form similar to UK stamp duty or the French FTT, 
neither of which impact on our business.
In Japan, new rules came into force halfway through the 
financial year on binary options. Since these rules took 
effect we have seen an increase in our share of the binary 
options market, although the longer-term impact from a 
new online suitability test is yet to be fully understood.
As we reported two years ago, the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore (MAS) has indicated an intention to introduce 
stricter leverage restrictions on retail forex trading at some 
point. It now looks as if these rules may come into force 
during the course of 2015. We expect the restrictions to have 
only a limited impact on our business, as they do not apply 
to clients with higher levels of income or assets – accredited 
investors – who make up the majority of our revenue. MAS 
has recently approved an e-learning module, which went live 
at the start of July, and this should provide some relief from 
current impediments to recruiting clients in Singapore who 
have no prior experience of trading our products.
OUR CHAIRMAN
Jonathan Davie has chaired IG since before our public 
listing in 2005; he has therefore served the full term 
permitted for an Independent Non-Executive Director 
and, as announced last year, will step down at the next 
Annual General Meeting in October. During Jonathan’s 
tenure as Chairman we have expanded from operating in 
two countries to operating in 15, and we have grown our 
revenue more than sevenfold. I would like to put on record 
the Board’s thanks for his contribution to this success.  
I am pleased to welcome Andy Green as our Chairman-
Designate, and I very much look forward to working with 
him as we continue to develop IG.
OUTLOOK
In November, IG will celebrate its 40th anniversary. We have 
grown our revenues in virtually every one of those 40 years 
and have achieved that against a broad range of market 
and economic backdrops – bull and bear markets, the 1987 
crash, the dotcom frenzy, the most recent financial crisis – 
and through cycles of boom and bust. Our operating model 
and risk management have been thoroughly tested and 
have proved highly resilient. We have continually adapted 
our business to a changing world, moving from telephone-
based dealing to internet dealing and increasingly to 
dealing using mobile apps. Our drive to innovate and to 
grow our business remains extremely strong and I believe 
that IG is better placed than ever before to deliver the next 
phase of growth. In particular, the imminent launch in the UK 
of our stockbroking service, as part of our comprehensive 
share-trading offering, positions us well to address the 
needs of a much broader audience of active traders.
Tim Howkins 
Chief Executive Officer 
22 July 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW (CONTINUED) INTRODUCING OUR STRATEGY
As we drive towards our 
vision of becoming the 
default choice for active 
traders, we maintain  
focus on five key  
strategic objectives. 
ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF  
ACTIVE TRADERS
ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR EXTEND  
MARKET LEADERSHIP 
STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE
DELIVER QUALITY SERVICE TO CLIENTS
SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY LEADERSHIP
OPENING OUR OFFICE IN SWITZERLAND
We are in the final stages of our application for a  
licence to operate from our new office in Geneva. This 
will give us immediate access to a significant financially 
engaged population, in a country with extremely high 
average income per head and an underdeveloped 
competitive environment.
LAUNCHING OUR EXECUTION-ONLY 
STOCKBROKING OFFER
Our stockbroking service, which we began to pilot-test in 
July, is powered by our existing leading technology and 
provides clients with access to live streaming prices and a 
transparent execution process, as well as a cost-effective 
way to trade international equities. We believe in many 
cases this will greatly improve their trading experience 
compared with their current stockbroking provider.
FURTHER DEVELOPING OUR MOBILE OFFER
Technology is a key differentiator and we continue to invest 
heavily in this area. Our clients will increasingly interact with 
us using mobile devices, with around a third of trades now 
coming from mobile apps. Our recent focus has been on 
providing functionality on mobile devices equivalent to that 
on desktops, enabling clients to trade and to service their 
accounts fully on the move. During the year we launched 
iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7, and released a mobile 
version of IG.com for all operating systems.
STRENGTHENING OUR BRAND
Building on the global rollout of IG.com, we have 
developed an increasingly responsive, real-time approach  
to our marketing. We have made significant gains in our 
ability to use our market-leading technology to target 
customers with contextual messaging and promotions, 
wherever they are in the world. And with the launch of  
IG Live, we now stream live video analysis and commentary 
from our in-house studio three times a day. 
Elsewhere, the year also saw us make a major addition to 
our global sponsorship portfolio, with the announcement 
of an exciting three-year partnership with Harlequins Rugby 
Club in the UK.
We have achieved our status as a global leader in online trading as a result of many years focused on delivering defined 
goals, with meticulous attention to detail, in technology development, risk management, sales and marketing and customer 
service. As we look to the future, our vision is to become the default choice for active traders, and our five strategic 
objectives are designed to give us a clear route to realising this vision. 
In the following sections, we first introduce our product range and the essentials of what we do, before describing our 
strategic objectives in more detail and explaining how they link to our business model. We then explore in detail five 
examples of our strategies in action.
In recent months we have taken a number of significant steps towards our goals:
| Strategic Report 12 13 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES
What We Do
WHAT WE DO
We provide active traders with fast and flexible access to the 
financial markets using our award-winning dealing platforms. 
Clients can trade seamlessly across a range of instruments, 
including indices, shares, forex and commodities.
OUR PRODUCTS
We offer a variety of products, in line with the differing regulatory environments in the territories where we operate.
CONTRACTS FOR DIFFERENCE (CFDs )
CFDs are derivatives that enable clients to take advantage of changes in an asset’s price, without owning the asset itself. 
• We are the world’s No.1 CFD provider
(1)
• We offer global CFD trading, including direct market access (DMA) to shares and forex markets 
The diagram below shows, in simplified form, how a CFD can be used to ‘sell’ a market when you expect it to fall. This is 
known as ‘going short’. In this scenario, a subsequent fall in the market price results in a profit for the client while a rise 
results in a loss. The diagram below should be viewed in conjunction with our more detailed example of a CFD trade on 
page 158.
Our clients can choose to trade in a variety of ways. In the UK, our direct clients who wish to hold assets over a longer period 
can use our execution-only stockbroking service to buy and sell both UK and international equities, as well as exchange-
traded funds. For clients seeking a shorter-term trade, our range of leveraged products enables them to go long or short on 
multiple asset types, without the need to hold the underlying instrument and with only a relatively small deposit of margin. 
We also offer trading opportunities on interest rates, government bonds, exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and a number of 
other markets. 
Our clients can deal 24 hours a day and access their accounts on the move using our range of customised apps for mobile 
devices. We also provide clients with access to advanced chart packages and automated-trading facilities, as well as tools 
and resources to help them keep abreast of market movements and identify trading opportunities.
(1) Based on revenue excluding FX, published financial statements, July 2014.
COMMODITIES
The prices of key resources such as gold, oil 
and wheat.
INDICES
The movements of global stock indices such as 
the DAX, the Dow Jones and the FTSE 100.
FOREX
The value of one currency 
in relation to another, 
such as the pound versus 
the dollar.
SHARES
The performance of 
thousands of individual 
companies.
OUR RANGE OF 
OVER 10,000 GLOBAL 
FINANCIAL MARKETS 
INCLUDES:
FX
320p 350p 370p 270p 290p CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET  
PRICE 
CLOSING 
PRICE
MARKET 
RISE 
MARKET 
FALL
GOING SHORT
If you expect the market to fall,  
you ‘sell’ at the MARKET PRICE
THE TRADE
You open a trade for 500 contracts  
at the market price of 320p
SIZE (SHARES)
500
MARKET PRICE RISES
CLOSING PRICE
350p LOSS
£150.00
MARKET PRICE FALLS
CLOSING PRICE
290p PROFIT
£150.00
MARKET PRICE
320p The market moves by 30p
COMMISSION
£10.00
| Strategic Report
