 CHAIRMAN’S  
STATEMENT
This is my first opportunity to 
address shareholders directly 
since I was elected chairman of IG 
in October 2014. I am delighted 
to present the results for the 2015 
financial year.
It was another record year for revenue, with net trading revenue 
ahead by 4.9% at £388.4 million (2014: £370.4 million). This was 
after the impact of the extreme event involving the Swiss franc 
in January, which I discuss in more detail below; excluding this 
incident, on an underlying basis, revenue was ahead by 8.0% at 
£400.2 million. Underlying profit before tax was down slightly 
on the prior year as a result of ongoing investment, as set out 
in the Chief Executive’s statement. Diluted earnings per share 
was down by 10.5% at 35.99 pence (2014: 40.22 pence); on an 
underlying basis it was ahead by 2.1% at 41.07 pence.
In January the Swiss National Bank announced, without notice, 
that it was ceasing intervention in the franc exchange rate. 
This caused an unprecedented appreciation in the value of 
the franc, creating turmoil in the foreign exchange markets 
and drastically reducing global liquidity in this G10 currency. 
This was a salutary reminder, for both industry providers and 
existing clients, of the potential risks and rewards of trading 
in the financial markets. At IG we take very seriously our 
regulatory and consumer responsibilities on appropriateness 
tests for prospective clients. This incident underlines the need 
for regulators to ensure that regulatory standards are applied 
robustly and consistently across the industry. 
The Swiss franc event provided a sudden real-world stress 
test for our technology, our risk management procedures and 
our balance sheet capacity. Although the resultant negative 
impact of £27 million, net of recoveries, was significant and 
disappointing, IG clearly demonstrated its ability to manage 
through such a so-called ‘Black Swan’ event while maintaining 
a robust business that delivers strong cash flows. Following 
this, we have reviewed our robust risk management system and 
learned lessons that we are applying to provide even greater 
protection for our business and our clients. 
Over the past few years IG has set out a clear vision of what 
it wants to achieve. Our aim is to become the default choice 
for active traders globally. We constantly engage with our 
clients and carefully consider competitive and regulatory 
developments. We continue to see the opportunity to innovate 
and take an increasing share of a growing global market. To 
achieve this, we are building on our award-winning technology 
suite, broadening the range of products we offer to appeal 
to sophisticated investors, expanding into further geographic 
regions and fundamentally improving our mobile and online 
marketing capability. 
This year we achieved a major milestone in IG’s development 
with the launch of an execution-only stockbroking service in 
the UK. Towards the end of the year, we launched this service 
in the Netherlands as the first step in the international roll-out. 
Stockbroking, and its link to IG’s existing products, has the 
potential to underpin the future growth of our business. We 
will use technology to bring a revolution to a very traditional 
market through real-time tradeable prices, direct market 
access, market-leading foreign shares commission rates 
and a full suite of mobile trading platforms. This will allow 
IG to appeal to a much bigger global audience, providing 
an attractive business opportunity in its own right as well 
as broadening the understanding and take-up of our core 
leveraged trading products.
| 8 THE RETIREMENT OF TIM HOWKINS
After a long and extremely successful career at IG, as both CFO 
and CEO, Tim Howkins has informed the Board of his intention 
to retire. Tim’s career at IG has spanned 16 years and he has 
been part of and led extremely dedicated teams which have 
built IG from a single office in London to the global leader 
it is today. Although I have only had the pleasure of working 
with Tim for the last year, I would like to express my personal 
gratitude and I’m sure I speak for all the employees at IG, past 
and present, in wishing him every success in the future. The 
Board is disappointed to lose somebody with Tim’s proven 
leadership skills but fully understands his decision.
The Board has commenced a thorough search and selection 
process for a successor. Tim will step down as CEO and as 
a director at the AGM in October and Peter Hetherington, 
currently Chief Operating Officer, will assume the role of 
Interim Chief Executive, subject to regulatory approval. Peter 
has been a Board member since 2002 and has been integral to 
the successful development of the company. I am pleased to 
report that Peter has confirmed that he would like to enter the 
selection process for the permanent CEO role.
DIVIDEND
IG remains highly cash-generative and we have sought to 
reflect this in the direct cash returns to shareholders. Last 
year your Board raised the Ordinary dividend payout ratio to 
approximately 70%. Although statutory earnings this year are 
behind due to the impact of the Swiss franc incident, both our 
business and the market opportunity remain strong. In line 
with our progressive dividend policy, the Board made clear 
at the time of the first half results in January our intention to 
hold the full-year dividend flat on 2014 at 28.15 pence, and so 
the Board is recommending a final dividend of 19.70 pence.
BOARD 
There have been a number of changes to the Board this year. 
I was delighted to be elected to lead your Board as Chairman 
of IG in October 2014. My arrival was of course accompanied 
by the departure of Jonathan Davie, who had been Chairman 
of the Board since before the public listing of IG in 2005. 
Although I didn’t work alongside Jonathan for very long, his 
record speaks for itself. His guidance over the years assisted 
the Executive team to grow IG into the global leadership 
position it holds today. I would like to express the gratitude of 
the Board and the broader IG community for his wise counsel 
over the years and wish him every success in the future.
Last year’s AGM also saw the departure of Martin Jackson. 
Jonathan addressed Martin’s contribution very eloquently in 
his statement last year. Martin was replaced as Chairman of 
the Audit Committee by Jim Newman.
During 2014 Roger Yates, our Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, confirmed his intention to stand down from the 
Board after nine years. We are currently carrying out a search 
process for his successor, with the intention of conducting 
a smooth handover before Roger departs at the AGM in 
October. We are also seeking an additional Non-Executive 
Director with digital experience. 
Following these changes, your Board continues to comply 
with provision B.1.2 of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’).
Your Board is committed to continually reviewing its 
performance and effectiveness and to ensuring its governance 
remains of the very highest standards. To enable a substantially 
refreshed Board to take a thorough view of our performance 
and any changes that may be required, we have embarked 
on a multi-year external Board evaluation process. This year 
we conducted a questionnaire-based analysis which will be 
followed up with face-to-face interviews with Board members 
next year. The results were reviewed by the Board, along with 
the actions from last year’s internal review. The introduction of 
the Board Risk Committee has allowed the Board to increase 
the time spent on strategic and operational matters. 
The intention again this year is to put every Board Director, with 
the exception of Roger and Tim, up for re-election at the AGM, 
in compliance with paragraph B.7.1 of the Code.
REMUNERATION 
The Remuneration Committee has continued to operate well 
this year. The simplified remuneration scheme introduced 
in 2013 has proved effective. Salary increases for executive 
directors are in line with those of our people generally. 
IG’S PEOPLE
I want to express the Board’s great appreciation for the efforts 
this year of our entire employee base. In my first year with IG, 
I have been struck by the dedication, talent and hard work 
I have witnessed from IG people. Our people remain our 
greatest asset and I want to thank them for their commitment.
LOOKING FORWARD
We have broadened our horizons to bring our offering to a 
much wider audience through both product and geographic 
expansion. Our new offices in Switzerland and Dubai are in the 
very early stages of growth but I am encouraged by the initial 
signs. Importantly, they both provide clear evidence of the 
ability of the IG team to deliver in challenging environments 
and demonstrate our adaptability and desire to continue 
growing the business. We have commenced the international 
rollout of our stockbroking offering and over the next year I 
expect us to expand this into more of our current markets. 
We are investing significant time and effort into improving a 
number of our business processes, particularly in the sales, 
marketing and client-onboarding areas. This includes work on 
our mobile app strategy and driving value from our investment 
in generic top-level domains (gTLDs). We recognise the need 
to evolve rapidly in response to the increasing importance of 
the internet and mobile devices as the key client interfaces.
In summary, 2015 was a solid year, both financially and 
strategically, but we are not resting on our laurels. We are 
clear about our agenda and the team is energised to deliver 
growth and profitability for the future. 
Andy Green 
Chairman 
21 July 2015
9 IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2015 |
