 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
In my second annual statement to you as Chairman of IG, I am pleased to report on a year 
of strong growth for the Company in revenue and profit, with both hitting new highs. 
Andy Green
Chairman
The good financial results are driven primarily 
by improving performance from our digital and 
mobile marketing in our more established markets, 
supported by reasonably volatile financial markets, 
and our investments in Switzerland, Dubai and 
Nadex beginning to produce returns.
This year has produced a challenging backdrop 
against which to execute our strategy. As you know, 
our previous Chief Executive Officer (CEO) retired 
and our Chief Financial Officer (CFO) resigned 
during the first half of this financial year. After a 
thorough process, the Board appointed Peter 
Hetherington as CEO in December last year. Earlier 
this month, we also appointed Paul Mainwaring 
as CFO, subject to FCA approval. The succession 
process has gone smoothly, thanks to the skill and 
dedication of Peter and his Executive team.
We remain committed to growing our business 
within our current global footprint and beyond, 
as opportunities allow. We set out a vision some 
time ago to be the default choice for active traders 
globally. At the half-year results in January, we 
expanded upon this to include non-leveraged 
products such as execution-only stockbroking 
(share dealing) and portfolio-based investing 
(IG Investments). This will allow us to appeal to 
sophisticated and active investors across a range of 
their needs and in different stages of their lives.
Our strategic clarity is coupled with a total 
commitment to operational efficiency. This 
ranges from the strides we are making in online 
marketing, through the incremental improvements 
to our client onboarding process, to the 
enhancements to execution and risk management 
practices that are allowing us to extract increasing 
value from every client trade.
Our people are core to our operational success. 
Recent attrition levels in our London office have 
been too high, due to competition for the scarce 
skills we require to prosper. In response, we have 
increased some salary levels to help retain key 
staff. At the same time, we are expanding our 
presence in Krakow and Bangalore to access key 
skills competitively. We expect our London office to 
remain at the core of our operations.
Shortly after the year-end the UK electorate 
voted to leave the EU. I continue to be impressed 
by how the broader team in IG handles such 
volatile events.
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
4
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016  The team prepared meticulously for what turned out to be a 
night of severe and sudden movements in financial markets. I am 
very pleased to report that they steered the business through 
unscathed. They concentrated on the interests of our clients 
leading up to and throughout the period, with clear client 
communications and margin-setting policy. The result, however, 
does throw up new challenges for IG, and will divert some 
resources over the next couple of years, as we decide on the best 
course of action to secure the future of our European business. In 
doing this, we will also consider any relevant elements of other 
forthcoming legislation in this area.
Regulatory compliance remains a key tenet of IG’s operating model. 
We are regulated in 17 jurisdictions across the world. While we 
can never guarantee we will not fall foul of a specific regulation, 
our intention is always to comply and we continue to invest in our 
capability here, with the aim of maintaining our good track record.
’Our strategic clarity is coupled 
with a total commitment to 
operational efficiency.’
DIVIDEND
This has been another strong year for cash generation at IG. 
In line with the Board’s previously stated intention to pay out, 
as an ordinary dividend, approximately 70% of the Group’s 
annual earnings, the Board is recommending a final dividend 
of 22.95 pence per share, taking the full-year dividend to 31.40 
pence per share, 11.5% ahead of the prior year. 
The Board will maintain a capital structure and cash position 
in the business to enable it to withstand any changes in the 
regulatory environment or structural shocks in the financial markets, 
while providing sufficient headroom to take advantage of any 
investment opportunities.
BOARD
The Board structure has changed significantly in the past year. In my 
statement last year I noted the retirement and acknowledged the 
great contribution of our CEO, Tim Howkins. In October, Chris Hill, 
CFO, stepped down from the Board and left IG, to take up a CFO 
role elsewhere. As I said at the time, we were sorry to lose Chris but 
understood his decision.
In December, following a thorough search process, the Board 
appointed Peter Hetherington as the new CEO. Peter was 
previously Chief Operating Officer and has been a member of the 
IG Board since 2002. The Board was delighted to confirm Peter as 
CEO, and believes he brings the right mix of business knowledge 
and fresh thinking to the CEO role. In July 2016, we announced 
that Paul Mainwaring had been selected by the Board as CFO, 
subject to FCA approval. Paul was previously CFO of Tullett Prebon 
plc and we are looking forward to welcoming him to the Board in 
due course.
In September, June Felix joined the Board as a Non-Executive 
Director. June is currently president of Verifone in Europe 
and brings with her significant international experience along 
with knowledge of product innovation in the financial and 
digital sectors. Also in September, Malcolm Le May joined the 
Board as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee.
Malcolm brings to the Board deep knowledge of the financial 
services and investments sectors and a wealth of experience on 
the boards of publicly listed businesses. I would like to welcome 
them both to IG. Following these changes, your Board continues to 
comply with provision B.1.2 of the 2014 UK Corporate Governance 
Code (‘the Code’).
The intention again this year is to put every Board Director up for 
election or re-election at the AGM, in compliance with paragraph 
B.7.1 of the Code.
REMUNERATION 
In response to the attrition levels mentioned earlier, this year we 
carried out a targeted salary benchmarking exercise, to ensure 
our overall remuneration structure enables us to recruit and retain 
high-quality people. We also introduced a flexible benefits scheme, 
which allows our employees to choose the mix of benefits which 
suits their individual circumstances. This will increase our overall 
remuneration costs, but I believe makes us increasingly competitive 
in a tough labour market. In determining the remuneration of the 
CEO and CFO, the Remuneration Committee took into account 
the growth of the business and the competitiveness of salaries at 
all levels of the Company, and benchmarked these roles against 
companies of comparable size and complexity in financial services 
and the FTSE 250.
IG’S PEOPLE
Once again, I and the rest of the Board want to thank all the 
people who work at IG for delivering another record year for the 
Company. We were extremely impressed, if not surprised, by the 
way our people pulled together during the uncertainty caused by 
the CEO and CFO’s departures during the first half of the year, and 
by the way they have rallied behind Peter, as new CEO. We are in 
no doubt that our people remain our key asset.
LOOKING FORWARD
We have been investing heavily over the last few years in 
transitioning IG, from a very successful but relatively narrow 
specialist, to a broader-based business, through product extension, 
geographic expansion and platform development. We are 
now coming towards the end of this particular project investment 
phase. This year, as well as delivering results from those 
investments, we have a number of important initiatives planned, 
which Peter considers in more detail in his statement, as we 
seek new opportunities to grow and to expand our knowledge 
and experience across an emerging range of exciting digital 
financial products.
The Board is committed to delivering on the strategy we have 
agreed, to the benefit of all our stakeholders. IG’s success is built 
on placing clients at the heart of our business and we aim to further 
enhance our leadership position by providing them with even 
better technology and continuous improvements to their overall 
experience. With our recent investments beginning to bear fruit 
and exciting plans for the year ahead, I am increasingly confident 
about the future.
Andy Green
Chairman
19 July 2016
5
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
