 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
This is my first opportunity to present full-year financial results, and I am pleased to 
be reporting on such a strong outcome. Revenue was ahead by 14% at £456.3 million 
(2015 underlying: £400.2 million). Performance was strong across the board, with each 
half-year setting a new high. 
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
6 The year was particularly marked by sharp market movements in 
our first and third quarters, which presented short-term trading 
opportunities for our clients. However, I am particularly pleased by 
the continued strategic and operational progress we made in the 
year, which I will expand upon later.
Profit before tax rose by 7.6% to £207.9 million (2015 underlying: 
£193.2 million), with a £6.4 million negative impact year-on-year in 
betting duty and net interest on client funds and a 17% increase 
in operating costs. Cost increases reflected targeted investment 
in advertising and marketing, where the payback remains 
compelling, increased data fees due to the growth in client 
numbers, higher employee costs due to the impact of headcount 
increases through the prior year and higher discretionary 
remuneration following the improved business performance. Profit 
after tax was up by 9% at £164.3 million (2015 underlying: £150.7 
million). Diluted earnings per share was up by 8.5% at 44.58 pence 
(2015 underlying: 41.07 pence).
Revenue in the year was ahead in all of our geographic regions. 
The UK contributed almost 51% of the Group revenue in the year, 
up 9% at £231.1 million, with a similar sequential half-on-half 
growth rate. The pattern was similar in Australia, where revenue 
was ahead of the prior year by 8% at £64.0 million. Revenue in 
Europe was ahead by 22%, at £98.6 million, with all countries 
in this region ahead of the prior year and a strong year-on-year 
performance in Switzerland, where the office opened part way 
through the prior year; the sequential half-on-half growth rate here 
was 16%. The Rest of World segment was ahead of the prior year 
by 30%. Once again all countries were ahead of the prior year, 
with a particularly strong revenue performance in the US and an 
excellent start in the new Dubai office.
As our Chairman, Andy Green, mentioned, just after the end of 
our financial year, we experienced a real-world test of our systems, 
processes and risk management with the UK’s EU Referendum. 
This sort of event brings out the best in IG’s people. We prepared 
meticulously, providing regular communications and adjustments 
for our clients to ensure they understood the potential for market 
moves and stress testing our technology even more than normal. 
As it turned out, the event was more dramatic than most people 
anticipated, with some of the most extreme movements we have 
seen in financial markets. I am delighted with the way IG handled 
the event itself and the immediate aftermath. While IG avails itself 
of the ‘passporting’ regime in using its UK licence to operate 
across the EU, the decision to leave the EU does not change 
much in the short-term. We will put plans in place to deal with this 
outcome, as we monitor the progress in political discussions, and 
be ready to act if required to ensure we can continue to operate 
in Europe.
MiFID II is currently scheduled to come into force in January 
2018. This provides enhanced intervention rights for individual 
state regulators. Ahead of this, as we announced in March, the 
French regulator, the AMF, stated its intention to restrict electronic 
advertising of derivative products to retail clients. Although this 
intention is not yet law, it appears there is sufficient will to ensure 
this happens and therefore we assume this comes into force 
sometime during this calendar year. The precise extent of the 
restriction is not yet clear but it is likely to adversely impact new 
client acquisition for the French business, which accounted for 5% 
of this year’s revenue and new accounts.
STRATEGIC AND 
OPERATIONAL PROGRESS
In my first-half statement in January, I clarified my approach to 
taking IG forward. We are concentrating on three key levers 
for growth:
 ❚ Product diversification
 ❚ Geographic development
 ❚ Maximising the current opportunity
 – Optimising marketing efficiency and client conversion
 – Increasing client activity and retention
 – Maximising client value
PRODUCT DIVERSIFICATION
Having grown to be a clear market leader in certain of our more 
mature markets, the UK and Australia in particular, we see great 
value in being able to offer clients a broader suite of trading 
and investment products, which fulfil a greater portion of their 
needs throughout their life. This also allows us to reach out with 
the IG brand to a broader range of potential clients through a 
product set they understand well, with some of those clients, 
those for whom it’s entirely appropriate, ultimately choosing 
also to use a leveraged product. In September 2014, we took 
our first step outside our core leveraged-product arena, with the 
launch of execution-only stockbroking in the UK. We evolved 
our offering early in 2016, in response to a slightly disappointing 
take-up, including altering our pricing structure and renaming it 
share dealing. These changes coincided with the ISA season in 
the UK, so it is difficult to understand their precise impact, but 
we have seen an uplift in the account opening rates. At the end 
of the year we had over 11,000 funded accounts and, perhaps 
more importantly, we had around 2,900 active clients in May. 
We continue to see around 15% of new clients going on to use 
the leveraged product set and initial indications suggest they 
are valuable clients. We rolled out this product to Australia in 
early July and hope to build here on the learnings from our UK 
experience to date.
’I am particularly pleased by 
the continued strategic and 
operational progress we made 
in the year.’
We are close to launching a portfolio-based investment product 
through IG Investments, in partnership with BlackRock, the biggest 
asset manager in the world. Initially this will be UK only but we 
expect to expand it to Australia over time. This is the next natural 
extension of the IG brand and provides us with another route to 
market. Over the longer term, this allows us to build a separate, 
more predictable revenue stream. The model portfolios we will 
offer will be built on exchange traded funds (ETFs), which lend 
themselves to one of IG’s core competencies, namely real-time 
trade execution. ETFs are low-fee products, which will enable us 
to offer a low-cost service to clients, based on market-leading 
technology and transparency. We plan to add a customisation 
ability for clients, which we anticipate will appeal to more 
sophisticated clients. 
7
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW CONTINUED
GEOGRAPHIC DEVELOPMENT
We will adjust our approach to suit the opportunity. Over time we 
believe there will be opportunities to expand our business into 
fresh geographies. Recent examples of this are Switzerland and 
Dubai. These two offices are performing ahead of plan, with a 
particularly strong finish to this year in Dubai. Unlike other offices, 
the revenue in these countries is coming from fewer, larger-value 
clients, particularly in Dubai, which leads us to expect growth to 
be strong but unpredictable from month to month. Both of these 
countries required a lengthy licensing process, a relatively material 
infrastructure and local regulatory capital.
We will seek to address certain adjacent or proximate markets 
without the overhead of a local presence. These markets will be 
targeted by the most relevant sales office, with the assistance 
of our improved online marketing capabilities, a new affiliates 
programme, slim local language websites and the required local 
language skills. This approach is central to our recent decision 
to pursue a hub strategy in Europe, where we are centralising 
our capabilities in specific strategic countries. As part of this, we 
closed our offices in Norway and the Netherlands and will now 
serve our current clients and build these businesses from Sweden, 
Germany and the UK. 
There remains significant opportunity within our current 
geographic footprint. As global leader in our market, there are 
many countries where our market share does not reflect this. 
We see this as an opportunity, rather than a disappointment. 
We may seek to extend our product set where there are specific 
local circumstances which support that, but generally, in countries 
where our market share is not reflective of our aspirations, we will 
focus on the core leveraged product and progressing towards a 
market-leading position.
This year, we launched an affiliates programme to market 
our product through a range of partners. This is still early stage, 
but the progress to date has been encouraging in some countries. 
This provides us with an entrepreneurial route to market, with a 
very transparent cost per account. We will continue to progress 
this positively, while remaining protective of our record of 
regulatory compliance.
MAXIMISING THE CURRENT OPPORTUNITY
In the short to medium term, there is a real opportunity for IG 
to improve at all the things we already do. As the business grew 
rapidly through the past 10-15 years, inefficiencies crept in to 
some of our processes, particularly around the way we market, 
onboard and engage clients through their life with IG. We 
are making progress in extracting increasing value from every 
client opportunity.
Optimising marketing efficiency and client conversion
Over the last couple of years, we have overhauled our online 
marketing, recognising its growing importance, through personnel 
and process change. We have centralised our marketing 
spend in regional hubs and now use a data-based algorithmic 
methodology. In the last financial year we opened just over 
100,000 accounts, 42% ahead of the prior year, and the second 
half of this year was 35% ahead of the first half. So, we are making 
great progress at targeting new clients. These figures do however 
belie the fact that there is still considerable friction, and therefore 
opportunity, in the application process. We have put in place 
many changes this year, accompanied by a strict testing regime 
and feedback loop where possible, to improve the conversion rate 
for prospective clients who begin the application process. Many 
of these are almost imperceptible, but incremental. However, the 
more significant ones include: taking advantage of electronic ID 
verification databases in countries where these were previously 
unavailable, particularly in Europe; enabling ID document upload 
through the mobile app; redesigning our mobile application form; 
establishing a dynamic verification routine within the application 
which shows clients clearly what documentation they require at 
each stage of the account opening process and much improved 
client communications.
Our conversion rate from opened accounts to trading accounts 
has dropped a little in the year. In absolute terms, it is still a strong 
picture, with first trades ahead of the prior year by 29%, and the 
second half of this year 24% ahead of the first half. Part of the 
decline in the conversion rate is due to the increasing proportion 
of applications commencing on mobile devices – for the last few 
months of the year, this has been running at around 50% of all 
applications; currently these do not convert as well as those that 
come through the web-based platform, either into valid open 
accounts or into trading accounts. It is also due in part to the 
magnitude of the uplift in applications – a good problem to have – 
and the reassurance we require before allowing someone to trade; 
this often includes a direct conversation and we are employing 
more client-facing staff to assist clients to get through to trading.
Less successful at this stage has been our acquisition of generic 
top-level domains (gTLDs), where we have decided to write-off the 
investment this year. We have launched some websites using our 
gTLDs, for example news.markets, and licensed many domains to 
third parties, but this is moving slower than we initially anticipated. 
We continue to believe that our ownership of certain gTLD strings 
positions us well as the internet structure evolves, but we have 
trimmed our short-term ambitions and we are focusing on using 
the small number of sites we have at this stage to broaden IG’s 
presence and attract clients.
’In the UK and Australia in 
particular, we see great value 
in being able to offer clients a 
broader suite of trading and 
investment products, which 
fulfil a greater portion of their 
needs throughout their life.’
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016 
8 Increasing client activity and retention
Our desire is to delight our clients with our technology and our 
service and to retain them for as long as possible. There is an 
overlap in this growth lever with our product diversification, a 
mechanism for deepening our relationships with clients. However, 
there are a number of other initiatives which will differentiate 
IG. This year, we rolled out our market movement notifications 
service, primarily via push alert to a mobile device. This allows 
a client to move seamlessly from a timely trading idea to the 
dealing platform and is individually targeted to each client’s 
interests. During July 2016, we will launch our limited risk trading 
account, an important step in helping some clients to manage 
better the risk/reward balance in their trading. This guarantees a 
client cannot incur debt, and may enable us to attract additional 
clients, previously concerned by the nature of the trading risks.
We are in the middle of the testing our new web trading platform, 
the mainstay of IG and our industry. Our current platform could be 
described as visually a little tired, but it remains technologically 
cutting-edge. It is also very familiar to many of our clients and 
therefore we will approach the changeover carefully and include a 
long period of dual-running. As long as the testing feedback is 
positive, we continue to expect to roll out the initial version in 
2016. We will then iterate this to ensure all current functionality is 
available, along with the suite of new features we are planning.
Maximising client value
We continue to optimise our risk management within 
our technology suite and with strong governance as we approach 
specific events. This year we increased our absolute risk limits and 
made them dynamic, where they rise and fall as markets open and 
close to take advantage of liquidity and client volume. Although 
we intend to retain our low-variability revenue stream – IG has 
only had three negative revenue days in the past five years – we 
continue to run back-testing simulations of various scenarios to 
get increasingly close to the optimal position, while remaining 
neutral on market direction. We overlay this technological risk 
management with manual oversight. 
This was extremely successful at the time of the EU Referendum, 
where we prioritised long-term value over short-term gain, raising 
client margin rates significantly and encouraging our clients to 
consider carefully the merits of holding a position through such 
uncertainty. This approach protected both clients and IG.
’We continue to optimise 
our risk management within 
our technology suite and with 
strong governance as we 
approach specific events.’
OUTLOOK
We made good progress in 2016, strategically, operationally 
and financially. The business starts this year in good shape, and 
we are delivering a number of initiatives which should continue 
to support future growth. The launch of limited risk accounts 
is a key step in providing current and prospective clients with 
increased choice and will allow us to broaden our reach. We aim 
to improve retention of existing clients and to appeal to new 
clients by releasing our investments product in the UK in the first 
half of this financial year; this will be an important achievement in 
the evolution of IG and continues our repositioning in our more 
mature markets. We are also approaching the end of the testing 
phase for our new web trading platform, and expect to release it 
before the end of this calendar year.
Demand for our products and application numbers remain strong. 
Given this demand, and the improvements we have made to 
our online targeting capability, we intend to increase marketing 
investment again significantly this year, as long as the payback 
remains compelling. Including the impact of the remuneration 
changes at the end of the financial year, and modest increases in 
other operating costs, we currently expect the overall absolute 
rise in operating costs in the 2017 financial year to be in line with 
the increase last year, on an underlying basis. However, given the 
nature of this cost growth, it will be increasingly discretionary and 
more closely aligned with revenue.
In summary, 2016 was a successful year for IG, and the business is 
in robust health. I am delighted to be leading such an energised 
team, and we remain confident that we can deliver further 
attractive growth going forward.
’The business starts this year in good shape, and we are 
delivering a number of initiatives which should continue to 
support future growth.’
Peter Hetherington
Chief Executive Officer
19 July 2016
9
IG Group Holdings plc Annual Report 2016
STRATEGIC REPORT
