 British Energy Group plc   
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/08
04
Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 
Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read/Revisions
Chairman’s Statement
Our objectives are clear: to maximise 
value in the existing asset base through 
careful stewardship and investment, 
while positioning ourselves for a pivotal 
role in the New Nuclear Build programme.
Output from our nuclear power stations 
during the year was materially impacted 
by boiler temperature restrictions at two 
stations and a further two stations coming 
ofﬂ ine to rectify the Boiler Closure Unit 
issue. As a result, total output for the 
year masked positive progress in the 
management of small generation losses 
and safety and environmental performance 
across the ﬂ eet. The progress that has been 
made in developing a culture of increasing 
operational safety and excellence across 
our ﬂ eet is most visible in the world class 
operation of Sizewell B, our Pressurised 
Water Reactor. Our ongoing investment 
in our plant and our people underpins our 
ambition to continue extending the life 
of our plants. This year we announced the 
extension of the accounting lives of Hinkley 
Point B and Hunterston B by ﬁ ve years, 
from 2011 to 2016.
There is growing recognition of the 
importance of energy policy in the United 
Kingdom and around the world. With 
increased awareness of climate change, the 
issue of reducing carbon emissions is now 
recognised alongside energy price stability 
and security of supply as one of the major 
challenges facing the United Kingdom 
economy. As the lowest carbon emitter 
of the major electricity generators in the 
United Kingdom and the only low carbon 
baseload generator, the contribution that 
British Energy is making towards meeting 
this complex challenge has become 
increasingly clear.
The case has now been made for nuclear 
to play a role within a balanced energy 
policy. We welcome the Government’s 
commitment to remove barriers to the 
industry taking forward new nuclear 
projects. Initiatives include making progress 
on radioactive waste management and 
decommissioning policy, reform of the 
planning system, reviewing the regulatory 
framework and clarifying national policy 
on the need for new generation capacity. 
We also welcome Government’s plans 
to strengthen commitments to combat 
climate change and set ambitious targets 
for CO
2
 reduction combined with a market 
driven approach to reducing emissions 
through emissions trading. Delivery of 
a major programme of investment in 
new nuclear for the United Kingdom 
will require a disciplined approach and, 
on occasion, competing priorities will 
need to be evaluated.
M6005 BE front.indd   04 M6005 BE front.indd   04 10/6/08   11:52:51 10/6/08   11:52:51
