 British Energy Group plc   
Annual Report and Accounts 2007/08
06
Job: 10795 British Energy R&A 08 FRT AW Proof: 02 Proof Read by:
Operator: rich Date: 03.06.2008 
Server: studio 3 Set-up: Dave First Read/Revisions
Chief Executive’s Business Review
Nuclear output and earnings were 
lower than the prior year. However, 
investment in the ﬂ eet has resulted 
in signiﬁ cant operational improvement 
across the stations – small losses were 
at their lowest recorded level.
We will consider the lifetime extension 
of other stations three years before their 
current accounting closure dates.
We are embedding a culture of operational 
safety and excellence through investment 
in our people and our working practices. 
Many visits to British Energy have been 
made by other nuclear operators to 
learn from our human performance 
programmes. We have taken on over 
60 graduates and apprentices in the year 
as part of our human resource planning 
initiatives, to train the nuclear professionals 
needed to accommodate succession 
planning, station life extensions and 
provide a core of employees for nuclear 
new build.
Despite difﬁ cult market conditions, good 
progress has been made in extending 
the depth of the trading book, and we 
successfully managed the ﬁ nancial impact 
of buying back power as a result of the 
BCU issue at Hartlepool and Heysham 1. 
We believe that the low carbon nature of 
our nuclear generation has the opportunity 
to create additional value as businesses 
search for cost effective ways to lower 
their carbon footprints.
Government has clearly made the case for 
nuclear new build in the United Kingdom as 
part of a balanced energy strategy. We are 
uniquely positioned to participate in nuclear 
new build. Our sites are particularly attractive 
assets for a new build programme and we 
seek to maximise the value of those sites for 
our shareholders. An equally important asset, 
however, is our large complement of skilled 
nuclear professionals who will be key for a 
successful new build programme.
Market and Strategic Priorities
Our principal activities are the generation 
and sale of electricity. Our strategic 
priorities are to:
achieve world class operational safety • 
and excellence;
improve our ﬁ nancial stability; • 
pursue life extensions for our stations; • 
and
position British Energy for nuclear new • 
build. 
Underlying these priorities is our individual 
and corporate commitment to 
environmental excellence.
 
We use a number of key performance 
indicators to measure performance against 
our strategic priorities and our commitment 
to safety and environmental excellence. 
These include output, Unplanned Capability 
Loss Factor (UCLF), Unplanned Automatic 
Trips, Lost Time Accidents (LTA), 
Environmental Events and the depth of the 
ﬁ xed trading book, as well as the progress in 
achieving low or zero collateral sales.
Operations Review
Nuclear Stations
Our nuclear output for the year was 
50.3TWh which was 0.9TWh lower 
than last year’s output of 51.2TWh. UCLF 
increased slightly to 24% compared with 
23% in the previous year. While nuclear 
output was signiﬁ cantly impacted during 
the ﬁ nancial year, principally in respect 
of BCUs and boiler issues (which also 
affected output last year), we have made 
considerable progress to manage the 
challenges presented.
Overview
In ﬁ nancial year 2007/08 nuclear output 
and earnings were lower than the prior year 
because of signiﬁ cant technical challenges 
with the Boiler Closure Unit (BCU) issue at 
Hartlepool and Heysham 1 and lower loads 
at Hinkley Point B and Hunterston B to 
reduce boiler tube temperatures.
Looking beyond the challenges with the 
BCUs, the investment in the ﬂ eet has 
resulted in signiﬁ cant operational 
improvement across the stations.
Small losses
1
 were at their lowest recorded 
level, and there are improvements in many 
other performance metrics, with some at 
best ever levels. Sizewell B, our Pressurised 
Water Reactor (PWR), is operating to 
world class standards, having operated 
continuously for 516 days between statutory 
outages – a best ever run for the station.
We are conﬁ dent in our strategy for 
managing original design issues inherent in 
our unique Advanced Gas-Cooled Reactors 
(AGRs) to increase their reliability, output 
and prospects for life extension.
We continue to invest to improve the safe, 
long-term reliability and performance of 
the ﬂ eet by proactively targeting 
investment to improve materiel condition. 
Building on the progress over the past 
three years, we are now targeting more 
investment to mitigate risks that might 
give rise to future losses. During the year 
we announced the lifetime extension of 
Hinkley Point B and Hunterston B by ﬁ ve 
years to 2016. Further extension of these 
stations’ lives will be reviewed by 2013. 
1 
Small losses are events less than 1TWh
M6005 BE front.indd   06 M6005 BE front.indd   06 10/6/08   11:52:52 10/6/08   11:52:52
