 Impax Asset Management Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
4
Chief Executive’s Report
For the Year Ended 30 September 2012
We continue to focus on delivering solid  
investment performance for our clients while 
carefully extending our research coverage  
and distribution channels.
Ian Simm
Chief Executive
Table 1: Assets under management and fund flows
£ million
AUM
1 Oct  
2011 H1 H2
AUM 
30 Sept  
2012
“Impax-Label” listed equity products 712 – – 637
 Inﬂows – 23 8 –
 Outﬂows – (76) (52) –
 Market movements & currency – 85 (63) –
Third party listed equity funds & accounts 792 – – 829
 Inﬂows –7141 –
 Outﬂows – (85) (66) –
 Market movements & currency – 122 (46) –
Private Equity 392 (13) (17) 362
Total 1,896 127 (195) 1,828
During a ﬁnancial year in which economic 
conﬁdence has swung between apparent 
complacency and despair, the Impax 
management team has continued to focus 
on the core business of managing 
portfolios of listed and private securities  
on behalf of institutional investors, while 
investing selectively in expanding the 
Company’s capabilities. 
Sector developments 
For many years, at the time of writing  
each semi-annual Impax report, a review 
of recent developments in the sectors  
in which the Company is investing has 
produced a wealth of evidence of 
strengthening market fundamentals:  
this report is no different. Nevertheless, 
investor conﬁdence in some of these 
sectors, for example solar panel 
manufacturing, remains weak, and sector 
benchmarks have underperformed 
generic indices during 2012. Since the 
interim statement, when I summarised 
new policies to address climate change 
and improve energy efﬁciency in several 
countries, further capital expenditure on 
water management and treatment in China 
and additional regulations to curb pollution 
in the United States, there have been 
several notable announcements. 
Probably most intriguing was the 
reafﬁrmation that, in the light of the 
Fukushima disaster in Japan, Germany is 
committed to a full shutdown of all nuclear 
power stations by 2022. This will require 
an investment of at least €300 billion in 
renewable energy, energy efﬁciency and 
grid strengthening, and has been the 
principal driver of sharp falls in the share 
prices of the country’s principal power 
utilities E.ON and RWE, which are unlikely 
to receive full compensation for the 
premature shutdown of their nuclear 
assets. Meanwhile, Japan’s new energy 
policy continues to evolve, with latest 
estimates suggesting a cumulative 
investment of US$1.5 trillion in renewables 
and energy efﬁciency over the next  
20 years. 
Demand for energy efﬁcient products  
and services and for renewable energy 
continued to expand in most European 
countries. Although prospects for 
renewable energy in the UK were called 
into question by some vocal politicians, 
this sector once again grew rapidly as 
most countries sought to encourage lower 
carbon power generation capacity.
In August, the Obama administration 
raised the automotive manufacturers’ 
average fuel efﬁciency standard from  
35.5 miles per gallon by 2016 to 54.5 miles 
per gallon by 2025; in spite of Republican 
objections, this was widely endorsed by 
the manufacturers themselves, who 
appreciated the policy certainty over a 
time frame that allows them to manage 
their product development.
It is likely that the regulatory framework  
in the United States, which underpins 
other sectors in which Impax invests,  
will continue to strengthen in Obama’s 
second term. The President has already 
announced that addressing climate 
change is a priority, while analysts are also 
pointing to the potential for tighter rules 
governing water abstraction in drought-
prone areas, investment in ﬂood defence 
and several initiatives related to higher 
energy efﬁciency. 
Impax’s target markets
The weakness of environmental stocks is 
illustrated by the performance of the FTSE 
Environmental Opportunities All Share 
Index, which returned 3.4 per cent (net, 
total return) between 1 January 2012  
and 30 September 2012, compared to  
the MSCI World Index which was up  
8.8 per cent (net, total return) over the 
same period. 
During 2012, taking into account feedback 
from a range of our clients and prospective 
investors, we have slightly broadened  
the deﬁnition of Impax’s target markets  
to encompass “resource efﬁciency”, 
comprising environmental markets and the 
wider food and agriculture value chain. 
Companies providing products and 
services in the food and agriculture 
sectors have many similar characteristics 
to those in alternative energy, water and 
waste management, particularly growth  Impax Asset Management Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
5
Chief Executive’s Report
linked to the rising demands of an 
expanding population, limited resources 
and broad evidence of mis-pricing as a 
result of rapidly changing technology, 
regulations and market structure. 
This initiative is resonant with a number  
of high proﬁle studies examining the 
implications for investors of the themes in 
which Impax has expertise. In November 
2011, McKinsey & Company published 
“Resource Revolution: Meeting the world’s 
energy, materials, food and water needs”, 
an in-depth study of a range of new 
market opportunities. Subsequently, in 
August 2012, Towers Watson published 
“Sustainability in Investment” which 
pointed to a potential transformation in  
the investment landscape arising from 
emerging drivers including “resource 
scarcity and climate change”. 
We are excited about the potential for 
offering additional investment services and 
products in the broader resource efﬁciency 
area. As reported in the interims, during 
2012 we have recruited two experienced 
investment professionals focused on global 
food and agriculture and, on 1 December 
2012, following test marketing, plan to 
launch the Impax Food and Agriculture 
Fund under the existing Impax Funds 
(Ireland) plc platform with £2 million of seed 
capital from the Company; this fund will be 
marketed primarily to UK investors.
Assets under management  
and fund ﬂows
During the Period, Listed Equity funds that 
we manage or advise had net outﬂows  
of £136 million comprising £97 million  
from “Impax-Label funds” and £39 million 
from Third Party Funds and Accounts. 
Gross inﬂows across all strategies were 
£143 million and performance contributed 
£97 million. However, this was offset by 
outﬂows of £279 million. We believe that 
the net outﬂows are broadly attributable  
to weakness of environmental stocks 
relative to global equities, particularly over 
the past 18 months, and to investor 
nervousness over the prospects for equity 
markets in general.
We saw continued progress in building  
our franchise in the United States. The  
Pax World Global Green Fund (recently 
renamed the Pax World Global 
Environmental Fund), which we sub-advise, 
attracted net inﬂows over the Period 
expanding to US$52 million at the end of 
the Period. As previously announced, in 
December 201 1 we established Impax 
Green Markets Fund, a Delaware-based 
private fund, as a wrapper for our 
Specialists strategy.
Following the completion of fund raising  
for our second private equity fund in 
September 2011, there were no additional 
ﬂows in this division during the Period. 
However, AUM (in Sterling) declined due  
to the impact of the weakening Euro.
Investment Performance
Listed Equity
During the Period our listed equity 
strategies generally beat their comparator 
indices of environmental stocks, but some 
have trailed global indices. 
We were particularly pleased by our  
Water strategy which sustained its out- 
performance over the Period, returning 
19.2 per cent (total return, GBP) compared 
to 17 .3 per cent (net return, GBP) for the 
MSCI World Index. The strategy now has  
a strong three year track record, making it 
the best performing fund in its peer group 
over this timeframe: since inception on  
1 January 2008 to 30 September 2012, 
this strategy was up 77 .5 per cent (total 
return, GBP) while the MSCI World Index 
was up 52.1 per cent (net return, GBP).
Our Specialists strategy, which invests  
in small and mid-cap stocks, returned  
6.7 per cent (total return, GBP) over the 
Period compared to minus 0.8 per cent 
(total return, GBP) for the corresponding 
period for the FTSE ET50 Index which is 
representative of the universe of small and 
mid-cap environmental stocks. Over the 
ten years to 30 September 2012, our 
Specialists strategy has returned 162 per 
cent (total return, GBP) while the FTSE 
ET50 Index declined 61.5 per cent (total 
return, GBP) and the MSCI World Index 
was up 111 per cent (net return, GBP). 
Our Leaders strategy, which invests in 
both small-cap stocks as well as larger, 
more diversiﬁed companies across the 
environmental markets universe, returned 
16.8 per cent over the Period (total return, 
GBP). From inception on 3 March 2008  
to 30 September 2012, this strategy 
returned 24.9 per cent (total return, GBP) 
while the MSCI World Index was up 23.4 
per cent (net return, GBP) and the FTSE 
Range of investment 
strategies  
AUM (£m)
(as at 30 September 2012)
  Environmental 
Specialists
  Environmental 
Leaders
 Asia-Paciﬁc
 Water
 Private Equity
759
276
205
226
362
 Private Equity
 North America
 Asia-Paciﬁc 
 Other Europe
 UK/Ireland
36
58
626
746
362
AUM by geographic region  
(client domicile)
(as at 30 September 2012)
Stable, diverse, client base
“Impax-Label” funds
(as at 30 September 2012)
637
241
588
362
 Impax-Label Funds
 Segregated accounts
 White Label Funds
 Private Equity Impax Asset Management Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
6
Environmental Opportunities All Share 
Index gained 16.5 per cent (total  
return, GBP). 
Private Equity
Our private equity business made solid 
progress during the Period. 
The power generation projects owned by 
our ﬁrst fund, Impax New Energy Investors 
LP (“Fund I”), which has €125 million of 
commitments, have continued to beat their 
budgets, and in June the Fund was able to 
make a further distribution to investors. As 
previously reported, we will seek a full exit 
from this fund when market conditions are 
supportive; to this end, we are following 
closely the development of regulations 
affecting the energy sector in Spain, where 
the majority of Fund I’s residual assets  
are located.
Meanwhile, our team has continued to 
deploy the €330 million of capital in Fund 
II, focusing on investing to fund the 
construction of onshore wind and solar  
PV assets in the European Union and, 
potentially, North America. During the 
Period, Fund II purchased 109MW of 
French and Polish wind assets, an Italian 
solar PV investment and a 28MW wind 
park in Germany; currently approximately 
40 per cent of Fund II is invested or 
committed for investment.
Distribution
As set out in previous statements, our 
distribution strategy focuses on building 
relationships with institutional investors 
around the world, offering both direct 
investment management expertise as  
well as the sub-management of funds 
established by third parties. 
In the UK, our core market, from where  
41 per cent of our AUM originates, we 
have continued to build relationships with 
new institutional investors and have begun 
a systematic outreach programme to 
family ofﬁces where Impax has historically 
been under-represented. In consultation 
with the Board of Impax Environmental 
Markets plc, an investment trust with  
ca. £327 million of net assets (as at  
30 September 2012) and our largest client,  
we have established a dedicated microsite  
(www.impaxenvironmentalmarkets.co.uk)  
to provide investors with more detailed 
fund-speciﬁc information. 
For many clients elsewhere in Europe, as 
well as in Asia and Australia, we continue to 
work closely with BNP Paribas Investment 
Partners (“BNPP IP”) to improve the sales 
prospects for several funds that we 
sub-manage. Early next month, two of the 
funds that follow the Leaders strategy will 
merge and will also absorb a third fund, 
creating a vehicle with ca. €120 million of 
AUM, a size which should widen the fund’s 
appeal to a wide group of investors. In 
addition, we are particularly pleased that 
BNPP IP has decided to extend the 
marketing and sales of the BNP Paribas 
Aqua fund which wraps our Water strategy, 
beyond its established base in France to 
cover most of Europe. 
Our direct sales strategy in the US market 
is to leverage our positive consultant 
ratings in a small number of focused 
channels covering endowments, 
foundations and family ofﬁces, while also 
nurturing third party relationships. To this 
end, we recently recruited a Head of 
Institutional Sales and Client Service who 
has over 25 years’ experience of selling to 
top tier institutions and who is based in a 
new Impax ofﬁce in New York City.
We were delighted to win three prestigious 
asset management awards in 2012. In 
May, Impax was named as the winner of 
the “Sustainable, responsible, ethical 
investment award” at the Financial Times 
Business Pension and Investment  
Provider 2012 Awards. In October, we  
were recognised as “Impact Investor of  
the Year” by The Asset in Hong Kong,  
and in November as “Best Fund 
Management Group” by Investment  
Week at their Climate Change & Ethical 
Investment Awards.
Infrastructure and support
In addition to satisfying client expectations 
on operational matters, the regulatory 
environment in which investment 
management ﬁrms operate is becoming 
increasingly complex, and it is essential 
that we sustain an effective Support Team 
across our ofﬁces in London, Hong Kong 
and the United States. 
In recent years we have consciously 
invested in operations, IT, ﬁnance, legal, 
compliance and HR capabilities in order  
to establish a scalable platform for growth.  
In principle, we are now adequately 
resourced in these areas and can manage 
a signiﬁcant volume of additional assets on 
this base. At the time of writing, alongside 
other investment managers, we are 
working with our clients to ensure 
appropriate compliance with the emerging 
requirements of the European Union’s 
Alternative Investment Fund Managers 
Directive, and are also closely monitoring 
the implications of regulatory developments 
in the other markets in which we operate.
The hiring of our food and agriculture 
team, our Head of Distribution (who joined 
on 1 October 2011) and our new Head of 
Institutional Sales in the United States have 
contributed to a headcount increase: at 
the end of the Period our total headcount 
was 56.5 full time equivalent staff, up from 
50.4 at the start of the Period.
Outlook
Investors who had committed capital to 
equity markets at the start of 2012 and are 
only now reviewing the result should be 
pleasantly surprised by the proﬁt they have 
made, but may also be concerned about 
the level of volatility of their portfolio today. 
In particular, rising political instability in the 
Eurozone and the pending US “ﬁscal cliff” 
have the potential to de-rail conﬁdence 
and, indirectly, erode corporate proﬁtability. 
Nevertheless, the outlook for resource 
efﬁciency and environmental markets is 
gradually improving and most sectors 
have rallied in the last quarter, in some 
cases out-performing generic indices. 
After a sustained period in which 
corporate earnings expectations have 
been downgraded, results for many of our 
holdings now appear to be improving, 
while a recent increase in M&A activity 
may prove positive for sentiment over the 
coming months.
Given our mandates, Impax has delivered 
solid investment performance in the year 
despite the fragile nature of global 
markets. We remain committed to our 
core strategies and as we build on recent 
investments, we are conﬁdent in our ability 
to deliver robust returns for shareholders 
when global economic conﬁdence returns. 
Ian R Simm
28 November 2012
Chief Executive’s Report continued
