 Impax Asset Management Group plc
(formerly Impax Group plc)
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
06
Chief Executive’s Report
For the Year Ended 30 September 2009 
We now have an excellent track record, 
powerful distribution partners and a 
highly qualified team that is committed  
to maximizing the opportunities ahead
It is an exciting time to be managing 
funds targeting the environmental sector. 
Hardly a day goes by without extensive 
press coverage of water scarcity,  
energy security, local air pollution,  
waste disposal problems or global 
warming, and institutional investors are 
increasingly persuaded that the sector 
offers credible potential for superior 
returns over the long term.
The opportunities for a specialist 
investment manager in this area are 
highly attractive. Since 1998, when 
Impax secured its first investment 
advisory mandate, environmental 
markets have expanded out of all 
recognition. There are now over 1,300 
quoted companies generating a total of 
ca. US$500 billion of revenue each year 
and expecting to deliver, on average, 
double-digit percentage annual earnings 
growth. An investment management 
team that is able to understand the likely 
development and risks of environmental 
regulation and technology, and can 
compare business plans and valuations 
in different parts of the world, is ideally 
placed to identify mis-priced assets and 
to commit capital accordingly.
Impax focuses on the management of a 
small number of scalable investment 
strategies targeting the environmental 
sector that are distributed through a 
variety of profitable channels. As set out 
below, during the period under review we 
have made significant progress in 
building AUM across many of these 
channels, delivered excellent investment 
returns and continued to extend our 
capabilities in order to be ready to attract 
and manage further funds.   
Sector developments 
The environmental sector has seen  
many positive developments during  
the year. Unlike in previous recessions, 
when investment in environmental 
management and related infrastructure 
was typically deemed to be of low 
priority, it is encouraging that public 
sector commitment to the areas in  
which Impax is investing has grown 
significantly. Since late 2008, over 
US$500 billion of public money in the 
form of “stimulus funding” has been 
pledged for deployment in the sector, 
and this is expected to underpin  
demand for many private sector 
operators for several years.
Notwithstanding this unprecedented 
support, many governments have also 
continued to finalise and implement 
far-reaching environmental targets and 
regulations. For example, in December 
2008, the European Union adopted a set 
of Directives that stipulate challenging 
requirements for renewable energy, 
energy efficiency and CO
2
 emissions 
targets by 2020. Subsequently, early in 
the New Year, the newly inaugurated 
President Obama began a programme to 
accelerate US policy in these areas as 
well as in the strengthening of a wider 
group of environmental markets, for 
example the development of a “smart” 
distribution grid for electric power. In 
parallel, the Chinese government has 
announced a suite of measures to 
support the rapid deployment of clean 
energy technologies, notably in power 
generation, vehicles and energy efficiency.
Assets under management and  
fund flows
As noted in the Chairman’s Statement, 
Impax’s AUM increased over the period 
from £1,098 million on 1 October 2008 to 
£1,263 million on 30 September 2009. 
The material component of this increase 
arose in our Quoted Equities division, in 
particular in funds or accounts domiciled 
in the European Union (ex UK and Ireland).
The flow of funds into our quoted 
equities products can be analysed in two 
categories: “Impax-Label” funds, which 
we typically manage on behalf of UK 
investors and earn annual fees in the 
region of 0.9 per cent to 1.5 per cent of 
relevant AUM, and “Third Party Funds/
Accounts”, for which fees tend to be 
lower as we either receive them through 
third party distributors or offer discounts 
on large commitments. During the period 
we had modest net outflows from Impax 
Label funds but significant net inflows 
into Third Party Funds/Accounts; for 
example, the Environment Agency 
Pension Fund recently added £15 million 
to the segregated account that we have 
been managing for them since August 
2008 (which was initially funded with  
£35 million). As noted below, this 
experience has prompted us to invest 
further in our internal sales team.
Since the end of the period, there have 
been two major positive contributors to 
the further increase in AUM. First, as 
announced on 22 September 2009,  
we have received €80 million of a  
€150 million mandate from a European 
institutional investor to manage a quoted 
equities portfolio, and now expect to 
receive the balance early in 2010. 
Second, as noted below, on 22 October 
2009 we commenced management of 
Impax Asian Environmental Markets plc, 
an investment trust, which launched  
with £104.5 million of gross assets.  13%
32%
20%
2%
10%
23%
Multi Managers
Private Client Managers
Pension Funds
Others
Insurance Companies
Other Institutions
24%
26%
1%
7%
42%
Private Client Managers
Pension Funds
Others
Insurance Companies
Other Institutions
Impax Asset Management Group plc
(formerly Impax Group plc)
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
07
Chief Executive’s Report
As reported in the Interim Statement, our 
partnership with FTSE to design and 
market a range of environmental sector 
indices has continued to develop and is 
producing rising (though still modest) 
revenues for us. In June 2009, FTSE 
launched six additional indices, taking 
the total number of indices in the 
Environmental Markets Index Series to 
18. There is currently ca. US$3 billion of 
capital either benchmarked  
to or tracking these indices, with 
institutional clients in North America and 
Asia as well as Europe. By contributing 
to a globally recognised standard for the 
categorisation of environmental markets 
and investments, we expect to build 
further credibility for the Impax brand 
and greater interest in our products.  
Cash flow   
As is common in the investment 
management sector, we now enjoy 
healthy operating cashflow before 
movements in working capital, which 
was £2.7 million for the year (2008: £4.1 
million), representing £0.23 million per 
month on average. Given the recent 
sharp increase in AUM, the current 
monthly cashflow run rate is substantially 
higher than this figure.   
     
Since the year end the Group has 
purchased 1,240,000 of its own shares. 
These shares, which we purchased at  
an average price of 36.33 pence, are 
currently held in treasury. 
Investment performance 
The delivery of excellent investment 
performance remains at the heart of  
our long-term strategy and day-to-day 
activity. 
Quoted equities 
Our quoted equities business has 
historically concentrated on the 
management of global portfolios, 
comprising either specialist stocks 
(Specialists/Pure Play Funds) or a 
combination of specialist stocks and 
more diversified companies (Leaders/All 
Cap Funds). I look forward to reporting 
on the performance of our more recently 
established Asia Pacific investment 
strategy next year.
Specialists/Pure Play Funds have once 
again sustained their out-performance. 
Between 1 October 2008 and 
30 September 2009, the net asset value 
(“NAV”) of Impax Environmental Markets 
plc (“IEM”), the investment trust that we 
have managed since its launch in 
February 2002, increased by 10.5 per 
cent, while the MSCI World Index rose 
by 9.3 per cent. Our other funds in this 
category produced similar performance. 
Over the five years ending 30 September 
2009, IEM’s NAV increased by 79.9 per 
cent while the corresponding increase in 
the MSCI World Index was 38.1 per cent. 
This track record, which covers a 
complete investment cycle, is an 
important component of our sales  
pitch to potential investors and/or  
their advisers. 
Leaders/All Cap Funds have benefited 
from mounting evidence that larger 
companies with significant and growing 
exposure to the environmental sector are 
delivering superior earnings and 
experiencing positive share price 
re-rating. For example, the net asset 
value of IFSL Impax Environmental 
Leaders fund rose 14.8 per cent over  
the period under review, while, as noted 
above, the MSCI World Index rose  
9.3 per cent. 
Stable, diverse client base
“Impax-Label” funds 
(as at 30/09/09)
Impax Asian Environmental Markets plc 
(launched 22/10/09)
With only a limited requirement for 
regulatory and working capital, we 
expect operating cashflow to rise further 
as our business continues to scale. 
While keeping a prudent level of cash to 
provide a buffer in weak markets, our 
policy is to utilise this free cashflow to 
seed high potential new products while 
also paying dividends to shareholders 
and, from time to time, making modest 
share buy-backs at attractive prices.
In 2007, we invested €2.2 million to seed 
our hedge fund. Subsequently, in March 
2008 we invested £1.5 million to seed 
IFSL Impax Environmental Leaders, the 
UK open-ended investment company 
that we manage; we have recently taken 
steps to hedge the equity market risk for 
this investment. At 30 September 2009, 
these investments were valued at £3.3 
million. Our intention is to leave these 
investments in place until the respective 
funds have had the opportunity of 
achieving critical mass.
As explained below, in 2010 we expect to 
be required to fund up to €3.13 million 
into Impax New Energy Investors LP, the 
private equity fund in which the Group  
is a limited partner and which we have 
successfully managed since August 
2005. This investment is likely to be 
illiquid until the fund’s portfolio is sold, 
most likely in two to three years. 30 September 2009
30 September 2008
£ Million
623 82 9 130 417
596
1,263
1,089
94 3 113 290
UK/Ireland
Other Europe
Asia Paciﬁc
North America
Private Equity
Impax Asset Management Group plc
(formerly Impax Group plc)
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
08
Chief Executive’s Report continued
Our hedge fund, which has a “long 
short” portfolio selected from our stock 
universe of environmental markets 
companies and related utilities has also 
performed well, and we continue to 
engage in dialogue with potential 
investors in this product. 
Private equity
Towards the end of the most difficult 
year in recent memory for private equity, 
I am pleased to report that Impax New 
Energy Investors LP (“Fund I”), our 
principal private equity fund which has 
€125 million of committed capital, has 
further extended its strong track record. 
With over 80 per cent of its initial capital 
invested or committed, this fund is near 
the end of its investment period. Fund I 
has been recently ranked by Preqin as 
having first quartile performance for 
infrastructure funds launched in 2005, 
and we are confident of reaching or 
exceeding the target returns agreed that 
were discussed with investors at the 
fund’s launch. 
As noted in previous statements, our 
strategy is to fund the construction of 
renewable energy power generation 
assets based on low risk technology, 
avoiding significant development risk, 
and working with well capitalised 
counterparties. All the material assets  
of Fund I are fully funded, generating 
electric power, and performing ahead  
of expectations.
Impax became a limited partner in Fund I 
at launch in August 2005 with a 
commitment to invest €3.76 million. 
Alongside other investors, our capital 
calls for the fund have been bridged by a 
bank facility, with a first payment of 
€338,040 made in August 2009 and a 
final payment of €2.8 million due in 
January 2010, when the facility expires. 
We may then need to disburse up the 
balance of the commitment (ca. 
€612,000) during the remainder of 
calendar 2010. The Group has more than 
sufficient cash resources to be able to 
meet these commitments as they fall 
due. We expect that this investment will 
produce a significant gain for the Group 
when the fund’s assets have been sold. 
Following the adoption of the Renewable 
Energy Directive, which stipulates that 
the European Union must derive at least 
20 per cent of its energy from renewable 
sources by 2020, there has been a 
further acceleration of attractive deal 
flow for funds with our investment 
strategy. Against this background,  
we have been successful in securing 
significant interest from investors in a 
second private equity fund, and are 
making good progress towards a  
first closing.
New “Asia Pacific” product
Over the past three to four years, we 
have been impressed by the pace of 
development of opportunities to invest in 
the environmental sector in the Asia 
Pacific region. With almost half the 
world’s population, rapid rates of 
industrialisation and urbanisation, and 
rising standards of living, the region has 
developed significant environmental 
problems, which are restricting further 
economic development as well as 
reducing the quality of life. As 
governments have implemented 
environmental policy to address these 
issues, there has been a marked 
increase in the number of companies 
based in the region that are providing 
solutions to environmental problems as 
well as supplying expanding demand in 
other parts of the world, notably Europe 
and North America. 
Since 2006, we have been closely 
monitoring the development of these new 
environmental markets and companies, 
initially in consultation with two of our 
major shareholders, BNP Paribas 
Investment Partners (“BNPP IP”, which 
has offices throughout the Asia Pacific 
region) and DIAM (based in Tokyo), and 
more recently with Ajia Partners, an 
investment management firm based in 
Hong Kong. We have also added to our 
London team individuals who have 
significant experience of researching  
and investing in Asian stocks.
Over the summer period, our front and 
back office teams worked intensively 
with brokers Collins Stewart and with 
Ajia Partners to prepare for the launch of 
a new investment trust designed to 
provide investors with dedicated 
exposure to the stocks of Asian 
environmental sector companies. This 
trust, Impax Asian Environmental 
Markets plc, launched on 22 October 
2009 with £104.5 million of gross assets, 
making it the largest investment 
company IPO on the London Stock 
Exchange since July 2008. Impax is the 
new trust’s investment manager and Ajia 
Partners is acting as our investment 
adviser. We are actively exploring 
options to establish new funds to provide 
investors with “open ended” access to 
the underlying portfolio.
Increase in AUM in most geographies during period   Impax Asset Management Group plc
(formerly Impax Group plc)
Annual Report and Accounts 2009
09
Chief Executive’s Report
Distribution 
As an “investment-led” firm, the bulk of 
our resources has historically been 
devoted to investment management, the 
associated back and middle office 
functions, and marketing support to third 
party distributors. However, as investor 
interest in the environmental sector 
expands and demand for our services 
accelerates, we are also seeing 
increasing opportunities to sell products 
directly to investors, and are therefore in 
the process of making several hires to 
strengthen our sales team.  
In parallel, we are very encouraged by 
the commitment of our network of 
distributors to the promotion of our 
products. Since 2006, BNPP IP has 
been selling funds managed or advised 
by Impax in much of continental Europe, 
parts of East Asia and, since January 
2009, Australia. At the end of the period, 
approximately 19 per cent of our AUM 
has been sourced through this route. 
During 2009, BNPP IP has been working 
towards the integration of the investment 
and sales teams of Fortis Investment 
Management (whose distribution is 
particularly strong in Scandinavia and 
the Benelux), and we believe that, from 
early 2010, the combined sales team will 
be able to attract significantly larger 
volumes for us.
In recent years, we have been exploring 
the potential for distribution of our 
products in North America, particularly 
the United States. As a first step, in 
March 2008 we commenced a sub-
advisory mandate with Pax World, which 
is well known for socially responsible 
investment products; this fund has had 
excellent investment performance and 
has grown from US$1 million at launch to 
ca. US$17 million today. Since the start 
of calendar 2009, as noted above, the 
public policy debate in the US has 
moved decisively in the direction of 
alternative energy and energy efficiency 
in particular, and we have recently 
signed a distribution agreement with 
Titanium Asset Management, which sells 
investment products to the US pension 
plan market. I hope to be able to report 
positive news on this new partnership in 
due course.
Infrastructure and support
Last year, we reported that we had  
made a significant investment in the 
infrastructure required to underpin 
further expansion of our business. Since 
the start of the year, this investment has 
continued, particularly to expand our 
support team (mainly operations and 
marketing), where headcount has 
increased from 12 to 17 staff. 
At the end of the year, our total 
headcount was 34 permanent and four 
temporary staff, up from 26 permanent 
staff at the start of the period. In the  
light of these increases, we are well 
resourced in most departments.
Outlook
The release of Impax’s preliminary 
statement of annual results for 2009 
coincided with the first week of the 
COP-15 conference in Copenhagen 
where the future of policy to reduce 
global warming was debated. Although  
a legally binding treaty has yet to be 
concluded, the arrival of the United 
States, China, India and Brazil at the 
negotiating table suggests that 
significant progress will be made in 2010. 
Over the longer term, we believe that 
interest in clean energy, energy 
efficiency and the drivers behind 
environmental markets will continue to 
strengthen and that Impax’s prospects 
are very strong. Having identified the 
environmental investment opportunity in 
the mid 1990s, we now have an excellent 
track record, powerful distribution 
partners and a highly qualified team that 
is committed to maximising the 
opportunities ahead. 
Ian R Simm
22 December 2009
United States
– Pax World
– Titanium Asset Management
UK
– Collins Stewart
– Direct sales
Asia/Australia
–  BNP Paribas Investment 
Partners
–  Mizuho/DIAM (Japan)
Continental Europe
–  BNP Paribas Investment 
Partners & Fortis IM (post 
merger with BNPP IP)
–  ASN Bank
International distribution network
