 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
SUMMARY
Our performance in 2006 fell back from our 
excellent performance in 2005 as our UK business
suffered from lower volumes in certain sectors,
higher polymer, energy and scrap prices and reduced
scrap availability.
RAW MATERIAL PRICES
Raw material price volatility continued in 2006 with
the price rising throughout the year and peaking in
September/October before falling towards the end 
of the year. The average LD Platts price increased 
by over 5% to a record average for a calendar year,
although spot prices did not quite reach the all-time
record sterling high achieved in October 2005. 
SALES VOLUMES
Our total volume sales fell to 309,000 tonnes as 
we experienced reduced demand in certain sectors
which led to a very competitive market as some 
competitors desperately sought volume to fill 
capacity. The continuing high raw material prices
encouraged more down gauging and many products
continued to get thinner reducing volumes by around
5,000 tonnes. Where we were unable to achieve
increased selling prices to recover our raw material
and energy costs, we exited this poorly returning
business. Adverse weather conditions reduced grass
yields throughout Europe and led to reduced
volumes in silage.
RESTRUCTURING
During the year, in our small trading business, we
closed our sales office at Birkenhead and transferred
production from Norwich to other Group sites.
Closure costs of £0.3 million were offset by a gain 
on sale of a vacant property of £0.5 million. 
In January 2007, we announced the closure of our 
loss-making site at Scunthorpe, the closure of refuse
sack manufacture at Stockton as we consolidated 
manufacturing at Heanor and the closure of recycling
at Greenock as we consolidated at Heanor and
Dumfries. Total job losses will be around 90 with 
10 jobs created elsewhere. Total closure costs 
will be around £1.5 million and the cost savings
should start from April onwards.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE
Total capital expenditure at £12 million was just 
below depreciation as we continue to invest for new
products, additional capacity for growth products,
product differentiation and production efficiencies.
In Europe, at our plant in Zele, Belgium, we replaced
an older printing press with a new eight-colour 
printing press to increase capacity and improve 
efficiency. At Roeselare, Belgium, we converted a line 
to produce stretch hoods, a growing product, and
installed a pre stretch machine for new products.
In China, we completed the extension of our 
factory and installed new extrusion, printing and
conversion equipment.
In the UK, we increased capacity at our recycling 
plant for agricultural waste in Dumfries and installed 
a further eight-colour printing press at our Consumer
business at Worcester.
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
John Smith, Managing Director of our Consumer
business, will retire on 31 March after serving the
packaging industry for 49 years. John joined the
Group in 1990 and has been responsible for 
developing our VMB consumer business at Worcester
into one of the UK’s largest suppliers of printed 
wicketted polythene bags to the fresh produce and
bread markets. We thank John for his contribution 
to the growth of the Group and wish him well in 
his retirement.
OUTLOOK
The new year has started on a satisfactory basis
despite some small increases in polymer prices and
continued poor demand in certain sectors. We are
hopeful of a better year for our agricultural and silage
products and have again taken steps to reduce our
cost base. We remain well positioned to improve our
performance over 2006. 
14 Report by Directors & Business Review
Our performance in 2006 fell back from our 
excellent performance in 2005 as our UK business
suffered from lower volumes in certain sectors,
higher polymer, energy and scrap prices and reduced
scrap availability.
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 14 OPERATING REVIEW
EUROPE
Our European business comprises two manufacturing
sites in Belgium, one site in the Netherlands and a
sales operation in France. The business specialises in
the manufacture and sale of high-quality printed film
for the food industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and
heavy duty sacks for the chemical, construction, 
horticulture and fertiliser industries, general industrial
films and silage and packaging stretchwrap.
Volumes, despite some down gauging, increased by
2,100 tonnes which combined with an improved sales
mix and good control over operating costs resulted 
in an increased operating profit.
FILM PRODUCTS
Europe produces a range of film on the reel products
which are supplied to a wide variety of markets.
Volume sales of silage stretch including our market
leading brand, “Silotite”, increased by over 4% despite
the adverse weather conditions which produced less
grass during the critical growing season. Our leading
brands are sold throughout Europe and we have well
established positions in most countries and are 
seeing increased demand from Eastern Europe. 
We have now developed “Baletite”, a potential 
replacement for netting in the silage baling process
and, while sales were modest in 2006, we anticipate
higher sales in 2007.
Volume sales in Industrial Films were up 9% as 
we increased sales of our high-quality stretchfilm
“Bontite” and started production of stretch hoods 
following investment at Roeselare. 
CONVERTED PRODUCTS
Converted products include all our printed and
converted products which are supplied to a wide
range of markets. 
Printed film for the food industry increased by 9% 
as we expanded capacity by replacing an older press
and saw good demand from the frozen vegetable
market. Margins remained under pressure.
Industrial sales were broadly in line with 2006 with 
the reduction in bags being offset by increased 
volumes in FFS as the market continued to move 
to FFS.
At Hardenberg, our site in the Netherlands, we
strengthened our management team by appointing 
a new Operations Director with considerable 
manufacturing experience.
Report by Directors & Business Review 15
2006 2005 2004 
Operating Profit £7.4m £5.5m £4.3m
Tonnes Sold 59,400 57,300 56,000
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 15 16 Report by Directors & Business Review
UK & IRELAND
Our UK and Ireland business consists of our UK
manufacturing sites and sales offices in the UK and
Ireland. It also includes our plant in China as most
of its production is sold in the UK.
Our operating profits fell as sales volumes reduced
due to lower demand and very competitive markets
and we experienced increases in energy, polymer and
scrap prices. Our UK electricity prices doubled in late
2005 and we incurred an additional £4 million of
electricity costs in 2006. These costs proved very 
difficult to recover in total, especially in markets
where the competition was European and our
European competitors did not experience this 
significant level of increase. The high level of scrap
exported to the Far East pushed up scrap prices and
reduced availability.
Demand in certain sectors including some sectors of
the construction industry, DIY, horticulture, bedding,
furniture and general packing remained poor. In other
sectors, including packaging stretchwrap, competition
was intense and we did not pursue volume at
uncompetitive margins. Adverse weather conditions
reduced the demand for silage stretchwrap.
FILM PRODUCTS
Film products include a range of film on the reel
products for a variety of markets.
Sales of collation shrink films, which are mainly to the
food and drinks industries, were broadly in line with
2005 after taking down gauging into account.
Competition remained intense with margins under
constant pressure. Volumes in printed collation shrink
were disappointingly below 2005 as new capacity
from competitors was brought on stream and
margins reduced.
Sales to the converter sector were down slightly 
more than the down gauging effect as we saw a
much quieter last quarter. Some business was lost 
as customers moved production to Eastern Europe.
New products for heat lamination and surface
protection were introduced and have been well
received in the market.
Our total sales of industrial packaging stretchwrap
were over 5% down on 2005 as nonsensical pricing
from competitors necessitated walking away from
some business. Cast PSW volumes were in line with
2005 as we again sold our capacity, but intense
European competition put pressure on margins. 
Sales of blown PSW were over 10% down as we
lost market share to unsustainable pricing from
competitors who offered products that might
not equate with our quality registered products.
Machinery for the production of new pre stretch 
and coreless products has been ordered for delivery
in February which will enable us to offer higher 
added value products.
Sales of silage stretchwrap fell by 10% due to poor
weather conditions throughout Northern Europe
where the grass yield is believed to be down by
around 15%. We hope that 2007 will be a normal year
and have authorised further capital expenditure to
improve efficiencies and reduce operating costs.
Sales in our specialist agricultural and horticultural
products were disappointingly only 4% ahead of
2005, despite our additional capacity, as sales of field
covering film in the UK were down. We expect to see
some recovery of field covering in the UK and plans
are well developed to increase exports of our
horticultural products.
In January, we announced the closure of our loss-
making film site at Scunthorpe and the volume 
will be transferred to our other film sites that have
available capacity.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
The new year has started on a satisfactory basis
despite some small increases in polymer prices and
continued poor demand in certain sectors. We are
hopeful of a better year for our agricultural and silage
products and have again taken steps to reduce our
cost base. We remain well positioned to improve our
performance over 2006. 
2006 2005 2004 
Operating Profit £9.7m £17.8m £9.5m
Tonnes Sold 249,900 266,200 277,000
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 16 Report by Directors & Business Review 17
RECYCLED PRODUCTS
We are the leading recycler of polythene films in the
UK with an annual recycling capacity of nearly 70,000
tonnes. We recycle scrap from our own operations,
used products taken back from customers and scrap
purchased in the open market. We are also able to
recycle the more heavily contaminated scrap
including agricultural films. Recycled material is used
in the manufacture of construction films including
damp proof course, refuse sacks and rigid products.
Our recycling activities suffered badly from higher
energy costs as electricity is used in both the
recycling and extrusion processes. The business also
suffered from higher scrap costs, reduced scrap
availability due to the high levels of export to the
Far East and the collapse in the value of Packaging
Recovery Notes. Our recycling volumes fell by 6% 
due to the reduced scrap availability. In January, we
announced the closure of recycling at Greenock and
consolidated this activity at Heanor and Dumfries. 
Construction volumes were in line with 2005 with
growth at the larger builders’ merchants and in damp
proof course. Our specification sales business
continued to perform extremely well with sales
up 50% to £7.3 million.
Sales of refuse sacks were down 4% with down
gauging accounting for 1%. The rest of the reduction
was mainly in low margin business that we were not
prepared to continue to service unless we received
the appropriate price increase. We have announced
the closure of refuse sack manufacture at Stockton
and consolidated bag on the roll production
at Heanor.
During the year we invested £2 million to increase
capacity at our farm plastics recycling plant in Dumfries.
The new plant has now been commissioned and will
be fully operational for 2007.
Our building extension at Xinhui in China was
completed and we have now installed new high-
quality extrusion, eight-colour printing and high-
speed conversion equipment. The imposition of an
anti-dumping duty of 8.2% on certain products from
China to Europe is a setback for our Chinese plant 
but we remain confident that we will find other
markets, if necessary, to fill the plant. 
CONVERTED PRODUCTS
Converted Products comprise all our print and 
conversion plants and serve a wide range of markets
from Industrial to Consumer.
Overall sales of our industrial packaging were down
due to reduced demand from our customers.
Sales of horticultural products were similar to 2005, 
but showed no recovery from that poor year. 
Sales of construction products into the DIY market
again fell as the DIY sector continued to suffer from
poor demand.
Other construction sales, particularly into the brick and
block sector, were very depressed as our customers
continued to suffer from the high energy costs and
reduced demand.
Purchase of a tube forming unit for producing back
seam product for entry into the cement packaging
and other industries has been authorised. This opens
up cement packaging which is one of the last major
markets to convert to plastic sacks and we are talking
to all major potential users.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites fell
15% as a number of larger customers went out of
business or moved manufacturing outside the UK. 
We also lost some volume as customers found lower
prices following our price increases at the end of
2005. These sites remain in a competitive market 
with over capacity and numerous small competitors.
Our sales team has been strengthened to enable us
to fill capacity, but only at sensible prices.
Consumer products had a good first half before
volumes dipped in Q3, but returned with a late
Christmas rush in Q4. Competition intensified during
the second half of the year with much business
changing hands albeit at lower margins. Major sales
continue to be in the fresh produce and bread
markets and overall sales moved ahead by 3%. 
A further eight-colour printing press was installed in
February which enabled us to meet our customers
growing requirements for higher-quality print.
Our pre-press and plate-making business installed 
a computer-to-plate imaging system to ensure it
remains technically competitive and to deliver 
consistent high-quality repro for our printing
operations. Sales outside the Group are now 
over 50% of total sales.
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 17 18 Report by Directors & Business Review
ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW
ENVIRONMENTAL LEGISLATION
The collapse of plastic PRN prices during the year, 
as a result of continued over-supply, caused
difficulties for our recycling businesses. It is of
concern that 65% of the UK’s plastic recycling
obligation is now satisfied by export recycling 
activity, mainly in the Far East and India. This creates 
a poor climate for investment in the UK recycling
infrastructure and, more importantly, starves existing
UK capacity of waste plastic materials for recycling.
We welcome the recent tightening of regulations 
in the area of export waste which require exporters 
to demonstrate that recycling has taken place in
facilities which are “broadly equivalent” to the UK. 
FARM PLASTICS
In March 2006 DEFRA announced that the
Government had decided to implement statutory
Producer Responsibility regulations in respect of 
non-packaging farm plastics. We welcome this
announcement as we have consistently maintained,
since the collapse of the voluntary industry scheme,
Farm Films Producers’ Group, 10 years ago, that the
most efficient and lowest cost way to ensure the
recycling of plastics from farms was via a mandatory
national framework. We continue to work with the
DEFRA supported Business Resource Efficiency and
Waste (BREW) programme to develop best practice 
in which to provide a sustainable farm plastics 
collection and recovery network. We are also 
involved in the Advisory Group on Farm Plastics 
which is advising Government on the shape of the 
forthcoming Producer Responsibility regulations. 
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES
We have seen much evidence during 2006 of anti-
plastic packaging sentiment which is often based on 
a misunderstanding of the facts. There is now much
greater interest from customers and consumers in
packaging, plastics, recycling and degradable and 
bio-degradable products.
BPI has a long record of leadership in understanding
the sector’s environmental responsibilities and 
ensuring that our industry’s products and processes
deliver environmental solutions whilst meeting the
practical needs of customers, consumers and society.
In order to assist and develop the debate, we have
produced an environmental fact sheet which is 
produced in full on the following pages. The following
points require to be highlighted and understood.
The most lightweight durable packaging medium
is polythene film.
Technical advances have enabled the industry to
reduce the thickness of the film yet retain its strength
and therefore use significantly less raw material.
Plastic films can be recycled time and time again.
Plastics have an extremely high calorific value and
waste plastics could be used to produce energy.
The combination of good distribution systems and
lightweight and durable packaging helps to reduce
the spoilage rate on food to 2% in the developed
western world compared to 45 to 50% in developing
countries where little packaging is used.
DEGRADABLE, BIODEGRADABLE
AND COMPOSTABLE MATERIALS
A new range of products are being developed including
degradable, biodegradable and compostable material.
We are fully involved in developing these products for 
a range of customers. Sales volumes are still very small
and our total sales in 2006 were less than 1,000 tonnes.
Products produced include Starchies
®
garden sacks
which are made of corn starch GM free biopolymer
and will decompose when put into a compost heap
after being filled with organic waste.
We have also produced a range of produce bags from
renewable resources which should be disposed of for
industrial composting.
We have produced other products which use an 
additive to act as a trigger to degrade or embrittle 
the plastic.
The increasing use of degradable and biodegradable
plastics will have an impact on recycling and we 
have recently been required to issue guidelines 
on segregation and identification to our suppliers 
of scrap polythene materials. We are unable to add
these materials to our general feedstock for recycling
as we must avoid any contamination which would
impact on the new products we produce from 
recycled material. 
JOHN LANGLANDS
CHIEF EXECUTIVE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 18
