 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
06 Report by Directors & Business Review
We indicated in our Pre-Close Trading Statement 
in December that our results for 2006 would be 
in line with our expectations at that time. In the 
event, the outcome was at the upper end of these
expectations and I am pleased to report that,
although our results fell short of the excellent
outcome in 2005, they exceeded the performance 
of each of the preceding three years. In light of 
the challenges which 2006 presented, we have 
to regard this as a satisfactory outcome.
RESULTS
On sales of £414 million (2005 – £410 million), our
operating profit declined to £17.1 million (2005 –
£23.3 million), reflecting reductions in volumes and
margins in our UK-based business during the year.
After a decrease in net financing costs to £3.1 million
(2005 – £3.6 million), the profit before tax was 
£14.0 million (2005 – £19.7 million). Diluted earnings
per share fell to 38.46 pence (2005 – 54.28 pence). 
DIVIDEND
The Board is recommending a maintained final 
dividend of 15 pence per share for the year ended
31 December 2006 (2005 – 15 pence), giving a 
total for the year of 22 pence (2005 – 22 pence).
If approved by shareholders, the recommended 
final dividend is payable on 11 May 2006 to
shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 16 March 2007. 
CASH FLOW & BORROWINGS
Our net borrowings increased slightly to £52.0 million
(2005 – £47.1 million) as at 31 December 2006.
Working capital has increased due to a higher level
of stockbuild for the 2007 silage season. We also paid
additional pension fund contributions of £3.5 million 
in December, as part of a package of measures
designed to address the scheme deficit.
Interest cover on bank borrowings was very sound 
at over six times. Deferment of certain capital projects
and late delivery of equipment reduced our spend 
on fixed assets to £12.5 million (2005 – £14.3 million).
We currently envisage a return to higher levels of
capital expenditure in 2007. 
GROUP PENSION SCHEME
Following extensive consultation with members of 
the scheme, the Group has now modified the future
benefits accrued by members as part of a package 
to reduce the current deficit in the scheme. 
As previously commented on in the interim statement,
the Group has agreed to inject an additional cash
contribution of £20 million, on a tax efficient basis,
over the next five years. As I indicated above, some
£3.5 million of these additional contributions were
paid at the end of 2006.
At the year end, the gross deficit in the scheme stood
at £33 million (2005 – £54 million). We believe that
we have embarked on a course to reduce the deficit
significantly in the foreseeable future and to create
greater certainty for both scheme members and
other stakeholders in the Group.
I am pleased to report that, although our
results fell short of the excellent outcome
in 2005, they exceeded the performance
of each of the preceding three years. 
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 6 Report by Directors & Business Review 07
REGULATORY MATTERS & THE ENVIRONMENT 
We announced on 30 June that the European
Commission had decided to close its files on the 
original investigation into anti-competitive activities 
in Industrial Films. This excellent news ended many
years of uncertainty. It is gratifying that our full and
early co-operation with the EC, during both this 
investigation and the investigation on Industrial Bags,
was reflected in the final outcome. 
We continue to ensure that we remain 
compliant with all competition legislation 
and all relevant employees are made fully 
aware of the consequences of failure 
to comply on a regular basis.
As we indicated last year, certain European polythene
bag producers have complained to the European
Commission regarding product allegedly being
dumped on the European market by producers in 
the Peoples Republic of China (PRC). In October, the
Commission imposed an additional tariff of 8.2% on
certain polythene bags imported from the PRC. By
31 December 2006, we had already paid a tariff of
£0.1 million and our estimate going forward is for
an annual tariff of £0.4 million on bags which we
manufacture in Xinhui and import into the United
Kingdom. We have already incurred legal costs of 
£0.2 million in making representations to the EC
regarding the proceedings used in assessing this 
tariff and its relevance to our PRC operation. 
We may incur further considerable sums in legal 
fees as this tariff will have a significant effect on 
our expansion plans for our Xinhui operation 
and we are certain that its basis is flawed.
After considerable legal expense and management
time, we are pleased to note the demise of the
Environmental Levy on Plastic Bags (Scotland) Bill.
This Bill fizzled out after it became clear to all involved
in the process that the environmental gains envisaged
under the legislation were actually negative. This is 
a similar conclusion to previous serious studies on
this topic and it is sad to note that in Ireland, where
legislation has led to a reduction in carrier bags given
out by retailers, overall levels of packaging waste have
increased as retailers attempt to cope with the issues
of unavailability of in-store secondary packaging. 
We may now be faced with a repeat performance as
certain UK politicians seek to gain electoral advantage
without really understanding this complex issue. 
It would be heartening if they were prepared to
examine the evidence provided both by our industry
and independent experts. 
It is also clear that the packaging industry, in general, 
is under attack particularly from the media for so
called excess packaging on retail goods. Having spent
some 37 years listening to comments from our
customers on the need to have adequate packaging
to prevent loss or damage to their goods en-route to
the final customers, I wonder if these complainants
are looking through the right end of the telescope. 
Packaging in the Western World enables food 
to reach customers with less than 2% wastage 
compared to over 50% in certain undeveloped 
markets with no packaging. Typically the contents of
modern packaging consume more than 10 times the
energy in their production than the packaging itself, 
so even a 10% decrease in food wastage using 
modern packaging is environmentally cost neutral.
Where packaging is preventing waste, then that
avoided waste must be added into the environmental
equation. The current debate needs to be balanced 
by greater scientific and informed comment. 
Much evidence is available, but unfortunately, 
this does not sell newspapers. 
The scarcity of polythene scrap available for recycling
in the UK is becoming increasingly evident. This
scarcity has affected the UK more than other EC
countries, as the export of scrap for recycling is 
considered to satisfy the obligations of the Packaging
Waste Directive and counts under the UK system as 
qualifying for the issue of a Packaging Recovery Note
(PRN). This had led to a collapse in the value of PRNs;
previously a useful source of revenue for UK 
recyclers. Inevitably, this will lead to a subsequent
reduction in recycling capacity in the UK, as can 
be evidenced by the department closures we
announced at Greenock and Stockton earlier 
this year. 
Our number of accredited recycling sites has reduced
from seven at the start of the PRN system to only
three now. Although the global market price is similar
in all countries, the lack of an obligation to recycle
scrap arising in the UK within the EC has fuelled 
the UK export trade to the Far East. This is distinctly
unfavourable when compared with schemes operating
in other countries within the EC which have been
devised to promote the recycling of scrap locally. 
As a direct consequence, a thriving recycling sector
has developed in several member states under the
aegis of the Packaging Waste Directive. With the UK
public increasingly demanding action on the recycling
of waste packaging, the UK government would do
well to re-examine the UK system and modify it to
promote increased recycling of waste within the UK. 
In 2001, UK recyclers handled around three-
quarters of UK plastic waste arisings; in 2006,
over two thirds were exported to the Far East.
Container loads of UK plastic waste sailing to 
the Far East can only lead to container loads of 
recycled plastic products sailing back to the EC,
making a nonsense of the environmental logic
behind the EC Packaging Waste Directive.
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 7 GROUP DEVELOPMENT & STRATEGY
Despite negotiations with several parties, we did not
conclude any acquisitions during 2006, due on each
occasion to price. All had recorded excellent results
in 2005 and wished to base exit valuations on these
results. In many cases even higher numbers were
projected for 2006 and beyond. Whilst we can
empathise with projections based on an upward trend
from 2004, it became clear during 2006 that our
industry’s results for 2005 were achieved against 
an unusually favourable background. We remain
vigilant for acquisition opportunities, but we are aware
of what results can be achieved in our industry and
what we are prepared to pay.
Our organic growth on the European Mainland 
and the Peoples Republic of China continues at an
increasing pace. These areas are where we see the
greatest opportunities and where, as a consequence,
we are spending a proportionally higher percentage
of our capital expenditure. 
In the UK, we continue to have the issues of
overcapacity and enthusiastic pricing by loss-making
competitors and some loss of business as customers
relocate or source overseas. As a result, we have had
to re-assess our capacities and we have announced
several closures and internal redistribution of
capacities since the end of the year.
On 16 January, we announced the closure of our 
loss-making film extrusion operation at Scunthorpe. 
On 9 January, we entered negotiations with the
workforce at our Stockton Refuse Sacks business
with a view to relocating that capacity to our site 
at Heanor. 
On 23 January, we announced the closure of our
Recycling Department at Greenock and the cessation
of the production, from recycled materials, of plastic
pallets and geoblock, our plastic reinforcement block
for grass and similar surfaces.
These latter two closures were driven by the
increasing price and lack of availability of scrap
polythene in the UK as volumes of export scrap
continue apace to low labour cost economies 
in the Far East.
The total costs of closure will be around £1.5 million
and should have a minimal impact on our 2007 results.
OUR PEOPLE
The number of people employed by the Group 
at the year end fell to 2,840 compared to the 
3,000 employed at the end of 2005. The numbers 
will fall again in 2007, after the closures announced
early this year.
I am pleased to report that we will have recorded
a further improvement in our reported accident
statistics with a record low number of lost 
time accidents.
TRADING FOR 2006 & 
PROSPECTS FOR 2007
Writing at this time last year, I indicated that our
objective for 2006 was to maintain and hopefully
improve on our performance for 2005. However, 
as we reported at the time of the interim statement,
despite a good first quarter, it became clear during
the summer and early autumn that 2006 was not
going to go as well as 2005. There were a number 
of reasons for this, all related to market conditions.
Firstly, the abnormally fine weather we experienced 
in the summer months, following a cold spring, had 
a significant effect on volumes of silage and therefore
the demand for silage stretchwrap. Farmers 
experienced low yields with their first silage cuts 
and in the summer many ended up making hay.
Secondly, we continued to note attrition in sales 
of industrial products in the UK. In addition to 
furnishings, which continue to be affected by imports,
we saw a downturn in many construction related
industries. Horticultural sales, affected by the cold
spring, did not recover during the summer months.
Thirdly, as outlined earlier in this statement, margins 
in our recycling operations came under great 
pressure as their basic raw material, scrap polythene
film and bags, became both more expensive and
scarce due to demand from the Far East. 
Fourthly, we were faced with an unprecedented
increase in energy costs during the year. Year-on-year
these costs increased by some £4 million, and although
we did manage to pass through some of this increase
to our customers, market conditions did not permit
us to pass on all of it. 
The above four factors were mainly responsible for
the significant reduction in our UK operating profits 
in 2006. Our European business was slightly affected
by the silage and energy issues, but produced improved
results in a less difficult trading environment.
2007 is a different year for silage and we have to hope
that growing conditions return to a more normal
pattern. We have additional high-quality capacity
compared to last season and we are well positioned
to service this market which exhibits a growing trend 
as demand for organic feed increases. Further
investment in silage stretchwrap production 
is planned for the end of 2007.
08 Report by Directors & Business Review
Our objective this year is to improve on the result
for 2006. We have made a reasonable start and
have put in place certain steps to improve our 
performance in the UK. It is far too early to make
any predictions, but we do feel that the business is
on a sound footing and has the potential to deliver
a better performance in 2007. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 8 We have already taken steps to rationalise our overall
UK capacity and we will take further action if the
market does not improve. We are very aware that
some trends may be temporary and that we have
a customer base that demands service, as and 
when required. However, the retention of currently 
under-utilised capacity has to be balanced against
producing a return for shareholders and generating
sufficient cash to re-invest in the new and improved
products which our customer base demands.
Raw material prices had a significant impact on our
2006 results. We indicated at the time of our Interim
Results that prices were rising. These increases were
viewed by our industry as transient and selling prices
failed to reflect input costs in September and October.
Raw material prices did fall back late in the year and
margins recovered. In January, we were faced with 
a re-run of September although we detected less
enthusiasm from our suppliers as they were
benefiting from reduced feedstock costs as oil
reduced in price. This sentiment changed towards 
the end of January and, as their costs increased again
and feedstock prices started to look more realistic,
suppliers insisted on increased prices for February.
Attempts at developing a futures market in plastics by
the London Metal Exchange are floundering on their
insistence on equating to metals and running a
physical market. This type of approach does not lend
itself to a commodity market when the commodity 
is actually hundreds, if not thousands, of grades of
product and not simply one commodity. Our industry
is unlikely to find a remedy to price fluctuations until 
a more flexible futures market has evolved. The
proposed introduction of spot prices and local
contracts may provide some increased liquidity,
but the link to the physical market and a limited 
range of product grades remains. 
In short, we continue to have months where margins
are affected by the seldom random actions of our
suppliers and the reaction thereto by competitors
trying to guess the direction of the next movement.
This is unlikely to change, but I believe that we handle
this well and I see no evidence that any of our 
competitors do any better.
Our objective this year is to improve on the result for
2006. We have made a reasonable start and have put
in place certain steps to improve our performance 
in the UK. It is far too early to make any predictions,
but we do feel that the business is on a sound footing
and has the potential to deliver a better performance
in 2007. 
CAMERON McLATCHIE
CHAIRMAN
5 MARCH 2007
Report by Directors & Business Review 09
BPI-001 ANNUAL REPORT.qxp  20/4/07  09:20  Page 9
