 4 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
2008 has begun with record raw material and energy prices 
and the margin compression we experienced during 2007
intensified in January and February. We are actively working to 
pass on these costs. However, for many parts of our Group,
2008 looks to be a very challenging year.
We indicated during the last year that trading
conditions would be challenging and, in our Pre-Close
Trading Statement, that pre-tax profits for 2007, before
restructuring costs, would be some 15% below that
for 2006. The final outcome has confirmed this,
reflecting conditions in certain markets and the
price of raw materials.
Results
On sales of £424 million (2006: £414 million),
our operating profit, before net restructuring costs
and non-recurring items, declined to £14.6 million
(2006: £17.1 million). Net restructuring costs and
non-recurring items of £0.7 million (2006: £nil) reflect
closure costs of £2.0 million, a gain on the sale of
a closed site of £1.2 million, and negative goodwill
of £0.1 million on the acquisition of AT Films.
After a decrease in net financing costs to
£2.4 million (2006: £3.1 million), the profit before
tax was £11.5 million (2006: £14.0 million).
Earnings per share were 32.36p (2006: 38.46p). 
This drop in profit is despite actions we had taken,
early in the year, to rationalise our cost base in the UK,
that led to cost reductions in the second half, and the
benefit of favourable weather conditions for sales of
silage stretchwrap.
Most of the downside in operating profit is related
to increases in raw material costs, and also patchy
demand from certain sectors which particularly
impacted our margins towards the end of year.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a maintained final
dividend of 15 pence per share for the year ended
31 December 2007 (2006: 15 pence), giving a total
for the year of 22 pence (2006: 22 pence). If approved
by shareholders, the recommended final dividend
is payable on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the
register at the close of business on 14 March 2008.
The drop in profits has reduced dividend cover to just
under 1.5 times (2006: 1.75 times).
Cash Flow & Borrowings
Our net borrowings increased to £65 million
(2006: £52 million) as at 31 December 2007.
This increase included the £6.5 million we spent
purchasing AT Films in Edmonton, Canada, and the
additional pension fund contributions of £6 million.
Interest cover on bank borrowings was sound at
almost four times. As we envisaged last year, our net
annual capital expenditure rose to £13.2 million from
the slightly lower than normal spend of £11.6 million
in 2006. We currently envisage that this higher level
will continue through 2008.
Group Pension Scheme
We indicated last year that the Group had agreed to
inject an additional cash contribution of £20 million,
on a tax efficient basis, over a five year period.
Following a payment of £3.5 million in December
2006, the Group made additional contributions
of £6 million in 2007.
At the end of the year, the gross deficit in the
scheme stood at £18 million (2006: £33 million),
a very significant improvement on the £54 million
deficit at the end of 2005. This reduction has been
achieved despite an increase in the actuarial
assumptions on longevity, and is due to a number of
factors including investment performance, additional
funding by the Group, the increase in long-term bond
yields and careful management of liability growth.
Regulatory Matters
In 2006, the European Commission imposed an
anti-dumping duty of 8.4% on thin bags imported into
the EU from China. This affected a significant volume
of the product which we manufacture at our plant
in Xinhui. We applied for an individual review of our
position and in January 2008 we were informed that
the duty rate for the Group would be reduced to 4.3%.
As I have commented before, it is now clear that the
greatest risk, when investing in China, is much closer
to home than one might envisage. The decision by
the EC to impose duties on the importation of goods
by an EC manufacturer from its Chinese-based
subsidiary sends a clear message to potential
investors in China, and brings into question the issue
of globalisation of manufacture. British Polythene has
done more to modernise its manufacturing base than
most of our EC competitors, yet it is these competitors
who are now being protected by arcane regulations
implemented after considerable political pressure
from interest groups determined to maintain the
status quo of uncompetitive EC manufacture. It is
hard to see how this benefits European consumers.
In China we will continue to manufacture certain
products for the EC market, that do not attract
additional import duty, as they do not fall within the
scope of the regulations. We are also diversifying the
sales territories for those products which do attract
this duty, and have been successful in gaining new
customers in the Middle East, North America
and Australasia.
We have also been impacted by rules recently
imposed on exporting companies by the Chinese
authorities relating to recoverability of VAT on imports.
This has had an impact on our cash flow and margin
in China as we import almost all of our raw material.
It is inevitable that the EC duty and the new Chinese
VAT regulations will have a detrimental effect on the
performance of our Chinese site in the short-term as
we reposition our sales efforts.
Cameron McLatchie
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 4 Report by Directors & Business Review 5
Acquisition
On Tuesday 21 August, we announced the acquisition
of the AT Films business of AT Plastics Inc (Canada),
a subsidiary company of Celanese Corporation, for 
a cash consideration of US$12 million subject to an
adjustment to reflect the book value of working capital
at completion. The initial payment for working capital
was US$11 million, which was included in the cash
consideration of US$12 million.
AT Films manufactures polythene film products for
the horticultural and agricultural markets, mainly
in North America. The Company has facilities in
Edmonton and Westlock, Alberta, Canada and
employs 65 people. In the last financial year to
31 December 2006, AT Films sold 12,500 tonnes
of polythene film products with an annual value
of US$35 million.
This acquisition enables us to progress our strategy
of developing our international agricultural and
horticultural films business. In addition to offering new
geographic markets, AT Films brings new products to
BPI including a range of large agricultural bags which
are used to store silage and grain. The stored grain
is subsequently used as animal feed or as raw material
in the manufacture of biofuels. We believe that there
is significant opportunity to expand sales of this
product as global demand for biofuels increases.
Our experience so far confirms that this acquisition
does indeed present us with the opportunities that
we envisaged. We have already embarked on
a modest upgrading of the production facilities
in Edmonton and envisage that the sales
opportunities will be up to our expectations. 
Raw Material Prices
The price of polyethylene polymer, our major raw
material, has now reached unprecedented levels.
This price is driven by the high costs of cracker
feedstock in North West Europe where the ethylene
required to make polyethylene is mainly derived 
from naptha, a by-product of crude oil. 
The prices of these oil derived by-products seem to
have lost their relationship to the price of a barrel of oil,
as the cash margin between a tonne of oil and a tonne
of polyethylene has almost doubled in five years. When
one tonne of oil cost £150, one tonne of low density
polyethylene cost £500. Now one tonne of oil costs
£350, and low density polymer costs over £1,000. 
It is no coincidence that major oil and petrochemical
companies are reporting record profits. 
It would seem an appropriate time for the EC to
consider dropping tariffs on polymer imports into 
the EC. The consumer is being indirectly hurt by
increased packaging prices, the EC packaging
industry is fighting imports of finished product, 
and the only client group being protected are the
mainly integrated petrochemical companies who
seem perfectly able to take care of themselves. 
We envisage that these record levels are unsustainable
in the medium-term, as more competitively priced
feedstocks are available in other parts of the world. 
A 30% increase in the global manufacturing capacity 
of polyethylene is scheduled over the next three
years. This additional capacity should exert downward
pressure on current price levels.
In the meantime, we are passing on these price
increases to our customers, in as timely a manner 
as commercially feasible. Although we do succeed 
in passing on the increases in the fullness of time, 
the lag results in margin compression and poor 
short-term financial performance. We neither have
physical stocks of raw material nor any workable
hedge against these rising raw material costs.
Energy Costs
We entered 2008 with energy prices reaching record
levels. The outlook for an early reduction is not good
and we are attempting to pass on these increases to
our customers. We continue to reduce our energy
consumption and install energy efficient motors 
and lighting, however, this is of little effect against 
a background of massive increases in energy costs.
Our People
The number of people employed by the Group at the
year end fell to 2,757, down from 2,840 at the end of
2006, despite the extra numbers from the Canadian
acquisition. UK headcount fell by almost 150.
Our performance in Health & Safety was broadly 
in line with the better overall performance achieved 
in 2006 and we will try, wherever possible, to build 
on this trend which demonstrates the overall
improvements in safety culture across the Group. 
Horticultural films
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 5 6 Report by Directors & Business Review
Trading & Prospects
2008 has begun with record raw material and energy
prices and the margin compression we experienced
during 2007 intensified in January and February. 
We are actively working to pass on these costs.
Volumes have been mixed, with demand for certain
products a little slow. However, early season sales 
of silage stretchwrap have been encouraging and,
at this stage, 2008 has the signs of another good year
for this product. 
It is, of course, far too early to comment on the likely
result for the full year, but your Board is confident that
when the current raw material issues are behind us,
our businesses will generate better returns than we
have seen in the last few months. 
Any such improvement will not, however, be sufficient
to deliver the results which your Board expects from 
all of our businesses. To make these improvements,
we have to tackle some underlying issues in the UK
that will be resolved by careful restructuring of certain
parts of the business. Erosion of our traditional UK
customer base has left us with certain assets which 
do not align to current customer demands. Any such
action will be taken at a pace which preserves our 
skills and abilities to service our customer base. 
BPI has previously adapted to market changes and
opportunities and this experience will hold us in good
stead. However, for many parts of our Group, 2008
looks to be a very challenging year.
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
3 March 2008
Chairman’s Statement
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 6 “As bale wraps go, Silotite sets impressive standards
in terms of its strength, reliability and the level of
protection it provides. Using this particular product
has enabled me to produce high quality silage
time after time – and that has to be the ultimate
measure of success. I value Bob’s visits and his
updates on the latest research and wrapping
techniques. It’s good to know that you have 
the support of a UK based market leader.”
Simon Wells Manager Director, Lower Hope Farm,
Ullingswick, Herefordshire.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 7 Bob Kingsland
Area Sales Manager, 
bpi.agri
“It’s rewarding to hear Simon’s comments. 
You see, we don’t just sell our products and
forget them. We are out in the field continually
working with farmers, advising them on best
balewrapping practice. We work closely with
institutions like IGER, funding research into
silage production. This enables us to maintain
our edge in agricultural films and also to
provide direct support to farmers helping
them to achieve higher milk yields or livestock
weight gains. At the end of the day it is results
like that which count.”
Raising the bar
Demonstrating the importance of the agricultural and
horticultural industries to us, we continue to pursue rigorous
research programmes. To support its overseas growth
strategy bpi.visqueen is sponsoring research on the use
of horticultural films in arid climates to inform product
development for these markets. Likewise bpi.agri funds
scientific research which enhances the economic value
of silage production for the farmer. Projects like these
help us to remain the market leaders and to aid further
development of these sectors.
Technical excellence
2008 will see the commissioning of two new five 
layer extrusion lines in our agricultural films division. 
This investment reflects our confidence in the sector
and the opportunities for growth through the introduction 
of innovative next generation products. This state of the
art extrusion equipment will not only enable the production 
of more technically advanced products, but will take our
operations to outstanding efficiency levels and further
enhance our excellent quality and customer service records.
Seeing the bigger picture
We believe that taking a holistic view of the industry affords 
us the opportunity to differentiate our products with levels
of customer service which set us apart. We embrace
change, we understand industry issues and we integrate
them into our service offering. Through a series of initiatives
such as balewrapping clinics, academic seminars,
roundtable discussions, published articles and press
seminars our aim is to lead through market education 
and increase the knowledge bank of agriculture.
– Silage stretchwrap
– Silage sheet
– Silage bags
– Grain bags
– Greenhouse tunnels
– Crop cover
– Mulch films
– Animal feed sacks
– Fertiliser sacks
– Compost & peat sacks
BPI Products used by Farmers and Growers
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 8
