 Report by Directors & Business Review 15
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our performance in 2007 was well down on 2006 as we continued
to suffer from the impact of regular small increases in our raw
material prices combined with continued competitive markets.
Business Overview
Raw Material Prices
Raw material price volatility continued through 2007
with the price rising every month until September. 
The average LD Platts reported price increased by
15% over the year to produce yet another record
average for the calendar year. While prices did not
reach the all-time record sterling high achieved in
October 2005, a significant price increase in January
2008 has taken prices to a new high of £970 per
tonne for LD polymer. Increases in February have
resulted in the LD Platts price reaching £1,000 per
tonne for the first time, a new record. Prices are
expected to remain firm for the first half of 2008
but may soften during the second half as new
capacity begins to come on stream. The new UK LD
capacity in the North East of England is now planned 
to start in the last quarter of 2008 and we are starting 
to see some product from new Middle East
production facilities.
Selling Prices and Margins
The small regular price increases in 2007 were 
very difficult to pass on to customers on a regular
basis and resulted in compression in margins. 
Silage stretchwrap margins were reduced as we 
faced higher raw material costs and increased market
capacity. Europe faced higher energy prices which, 
as with the UK in 2006, proved difficult to recover.
Sales Volumes
The total sales volumes of manufactured product
from our UK and European operations increased to
311,000 tonnes as higher sales in silage stretch and
Europe offset reducing volumes in plain films in the
UK. The high price of raw materials, combined with 
the sentiment to reduce packaging, encouraged
further downgauging as many products continued 
to become thinner. Good weather conditions
throughout Europe resulted in higher volumes
of silage stretch products. Total volume sales were
316,000 tonnes after including nearly 5,000 tonnes
from our Canadian acquisition.
Acquisition
In August we acquired from the Celanese Corporation,
for US$12 million, the AT Films business, a Canadian
manufacturer of polythene film products for the 
North American horticultural and agricultural markets. 
The business has a film manufacturing plant in
Edmonton, Alberta and a conversion facility in Westlock,
some 80 miles north of Edmonton. The business had
annual sales of US$35 million on 12,500 tonnes for
the year ended 31 December 2006. 
This acquisition enables us to progress our strategy 
of developing our international agricultural and
horticultural business. It also brings new products 
to the Group including a range of agricultural bags
which, as well as being used to store silage, are now
being used to store grain which can be subsequently
used in the manufacture of biofuels.
The business acquired formed part of a much 
larger business and has not received the appropriate
investment over the years. We will, therefore, 
require to improve and update the current plant 
and machinery and to date have authorised 
£0.4 million on capital expenditure.
Since the year end, we have acquired the trade,
brands and plant of Sacomatic in Canada for a small
cash consideration of £0.12 million. The Sacomatic
memory bale tube is used to store forage for animal
feed and the acquisition of this brand will enable 
us to expand sales in this product area. 
Restructuring
In January 2007, we announced the closure of our 
loss making site at Scunthorpe with the loss of fifty
jobs. The plant was closed by the end of May and
equipment transferred to other sites. Some marginally
profitable volume was lost as a result of the closure.
In January, we also announced the closure of refuse
sack manufacture at Stockton as we consolidated 
this activity at Heanor. 
In January, we also closed recycling at Greenock 
as we consolidated at Heanor and Dumfries. We also
ceased the manufacture of plastic pallets and
geoblock for ground stabilisation as these products 
had become uncompetitive.
Total costs of restructuring were £2.0 million and were
partially offset by a profit of £1.2 million on the sale of 
a surplus property from a site closed in 2006.
John Langlands 
Our strategy for the business remains
unchanged in that we are a focused polythene 
film and bag business. 
Our primary objective is to grow operating profits
and earnings per share. 
We aim to provide first class customer service 
by delivering high quality products at
competitive prices.
We aim to be No.1 or No.2 in the major markets
in which we operate. 
We aim to achieve organic growth in product areas
and market sectors that continue to develop.
We will invest in modern manufacturing
equipment to enable us to develop new
products and meet our customers’ ever
changing requirements.
We intend to develop our European and 
Chinese operations.
We see further growth opportunities in
agricultural markets and recycling.
Other objectives include a continual improvement
in our operational performance and a continuing
reduction in our cost base to ensure we 
remain competitive.
Acquisition opportunities will be considered 
but will only be completed at the right price.
We firmly believe that the prevention of
accidents involving personal injury is essential 
to the successful operation of our business 
and we regard the health & safety of our
employees as paramount.
As a leading manufacturer and supplier of
polythene, we recognise our responsibility to
operate with due concern for the environment 
in which we live and work and to minimise the
impact of our activities on that environment.
We recognise that our people continue to be
central to the development of the business.
Strategy
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 15 16 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
In January 2008, we announced some further
restructuring at our Industrial plant in Stockton which
will result, together with non replacement of leavers
and retirees, in a reduction in staff levels of around
thirty. Along with other actions on the site, this will
produce annualised savings of around £1 million.
The cost of restructuring will be around £0.15 million. 
Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditure at £15.4 million was above
the depreciation of £12.7 million as we purchased our
remaining leased property at Stroud for £2.7 million.
The Group now owns the freehold of all our
manufacturing sites.
Other expenditure totalled nearly £13 million 
as we continued to invest for new products, 
additional capacity for growth products and
production efficiencies.
In the UK, we authorised a major investment in our
successful agricultural business at Leominster with
the installation of two new five layer stretch lines. 
This investment in new, state of the art extrusion
equipment will increase output and efficiency 
and enhance our excellent quality and customer 
service standards.
In our Industrial business at Ardeer we installed,
towards the end of the year, a backseam conversion
line with in-line printing which will enable us to supply
the cement industry which is beginning to move from
paper to polythene packaging.
At Heanor, in Recycled Products, we installed a further
conversion line to increase capacity for refuse sacks. 
In Worcester, in our Consumer business, we installed 
a laminator to extend our range of products and
eliminate subcontract costs.
In Europe at Zele, we replaced two older printing
presses with a new eight colour printing press to
increase capacity and improve efficiency.
We continue to invest to improve efficiency,
particularly to reduce energy usage.
In November 2007, we authorised expenditure 
at Zele for a further stretchline to cope with the
growth in Silotite
®
, SilotitePro
®
, Baletite
®
and Bontite
®
.
In February, we authorised the purchase of two ten
colour printing presses, for our Consumer business, 
to meet increasing demand, replace two older six
colour printing presses and our original eight colour
printing press and satisfy customer requirements for
ten colour printing.
Senior Management
Steve Moss, Managing Director of our Industrial
business left at the end of September to take up
another position in the packaging industry. He was
replaced by David Harris who was Business Director 
at our Consumer business and formerly Finance
Director in our Industrial business. David joined our
Management Board in October 2007. Andrew Green,
Managing Director of our Recycled business has
assumed responsibility for our Consumer business 
in addition to Recycled Products. Ian McDarmaid 
was appointed Group Purchasing Director and 
joined the Management Board in February 2008.
Outlook
The significant price increase in raw materials in
January followed by a further increase in February 
has set an early challenge to increase our selling
prices. These raw material increases together with 
a high level of energy costs will make our first quarter
very difficult. We have, however, taken some early
action to reduce costs and are aggressively increasing
sales prices. Early sales of silage stretch in Europe are
encouraging. The weakening in sterling against the
Euro may provide some assistance in export markets
for our UK business.
With the oil price at US$100 a barrel and LD polymer
at £1,000 per tonne, 2008 looks to be a very
challenging year.
Operating Review
Europe
Our European business comprises two manufacturing
sites in Belgium, one site in the Netherlands and a
sales operation in France. The business specialises in
the manufacture and sale of high quality printed film
for the food industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and
heavy duty sacks, including valve bags and waviblok
for the chemical, construction, horticulture and
fertiliser industries, pallet protection films including
stretch hoods, insulation film, general industrial films
and silage and packaging stretchwrap. Main markets
are Belgium, Holland, North of France and Germany
except for silage stretch which is sold throughout
mainland Europe.
Operating profits reduced despite sales volumes
moving ahead as margins were lower due to increased
raw material costs and higher energy costs.
2007 2006 
Operating Profit £6.7m £7.4m
Tonnes Sold 64,200 59,400
Visqueen
®
– damp proof membrane
Tuklok
®
– food and freezer bags
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 16 Report by Directors & Business Review 17
Film Products
Europe produces a range of film on the reel products
which are supplied to a wide variety of markets.
Volume sales of silage stretch including our market
leading brand, Silotite
®
, increased by over 20% as
excellent weather conditions throughout the summer
kept sales going until October. New competitor
capacity, a slow start to the season and higher raw
material prices all contributed to pressure on selling
prices and resulted in lower margins. This resulted in
some loss of volume in certain markets, but was offset
by good growth in France, Germany, Poland and Russia.
New products were launched in November under 
the brand name Baletite
®
, a replacement for traditional
round bale net and Silotitepro
®
, a new generation 
of silage film with improved economical and
environmental properties. We are confident 
that these new products have a good future on 
a medium-term timescale and will reinforce our 
market leading position in the silage wrap business.
Sales of pallet protection film moved ahead due 
to increasing sales of stretch hoods following our
investment in 2006. 
Sales of general and insulation films were broadly in
line with 2006 with increased sales of our high quality
industrial stretch film Bontite
®
. 
Converted Products
Converted products include all our printed and
converted products which are supplied to a wide
range of markets.
Sales of printed film for deep frozen vegetables 
and chips were down on 2006 due to the shortage 
of supply of vegetables and potatoes in the first half 
of the year. From June onwards with the harvesting 
of the new crop volumes were back to normal levels.
Industrial sales were broadly in line with 2006 
with a reduction in all types of bags being offset 
by increases in FFS as the market continued to 
move from bags to FFS. Margins were lower due 
to the change in sales mix and the difficulty in
recovering the monthly polymer price increases.
Capital Expenditure
In Zele, we installed a new eight colour printing press 
to replace two older presses and a prestretch unit. 
In December, we authorised the purchase of an
additional stretch line to meet the growing demand 
for silage stretch and provide capacity for our new
products Baletite
®
and Silotitepro
®
and Bontite
®
, 
our industrial packaging stretch product.
UK & Ireland
Our UK & Ireland business consists of eighteen UK
manufacturing sites and five sales/service offices 
in the UK & Ireland. It also includes our plant in 
China as most of its production is sold in the UK.
Our operating profit reduced in the UK as margins were
squeezed by the regular small polymer price increases.
Volumes were down 1% to 247,300 tonnes as we 
lost some volume on the closure of our loss making
Scunthorpe business and some export volumes to
very competitive European pricing. This was partially
offset by increased volumes in silage stretch due to
good growing conditions.
Film Products
Film products include a range of film on the reel
products for a variety of different markets and 
offers products such as stretchfilm, plain shrink film,
printed shrink film, produce films, bread films,
lamination films, liquid packaging films and surface
protection films. Incorporating highly respected 
brand names such as Novetek, Brithene and 
Supreme the range of products provides secure, 
cost effective transit and primary packaging 
for the most demanding applications. 
Sales of collation shrink films, which are mainly to 
the food and drinks industries, were modestly ahead 
of 2006 despite some small downgauging. This was
despite a poor summer which prevented the normal
seasonal uplift in sales to the soft drinks industry.
Sales of printed shrink were in line with 2006 and
we see further opportunities in this growth market.
Margins saw erosion due to the upward creep of raw
material prices in what is a very competitive market.
Sales to the converter sector were down significantly
as we lost business on the closure of our Scunthorpe
operation, from closure of customer plants, competitive
pricing in Europe and transfer of production to
customer in-house facilities. Over capacity in both 
the UK and Europe kept margins under pressure. 
As we start 2008, there are some good prospects
helped by the weakness of sterling which makes 
us more competitive against mainland Europe.
Silotite
®
– silage bale wrap
Baletite
®
– silage bale wrap
2007 2006 
Operating Profit £7.0m £9.7m
Tonnes Sold 247,300 249,000
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 17 18 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our total sales volume of industrial stretchwrap was
broadly in line with 2006 as we again saw some
downgauging in both hand reels and cast film.
Competition remained intense with margins under
pressure. We have developed an improved blown
machine film which we are able to sell at better
margins. This film is in great demand from our customers
who use it as the base film to manufacture prestretched
products which enable the production of much thinner
films. We have invested in 2007 for the production of
packaging prestretch and coreless film products which
will enable us to offer higher added value products. We
are now selling our Wrapsmartultra
®
hand roll products
at 7 to 9 micron compared to traditional hand rolls in
the 12 to 17 micron range. These new hand rolls offer
the same strength and high performance levels as
standard stretchfilm products despite their ultra
lightweight and thinner gauge and enable our
customers to use less weight of materials. 
Sales of Wrapsmartultra
®
are growing rapidly
and we are now supplying two of the four large 
UK supermarkets and have just installed additional
conversion machines to increase capacity.
Volume sales of silage stretchwrap recovered the
1 0% lost in 2006 as the good weather conditions in
the UK and Ireland led to very high sales in these
markets. The season started slowly resulting in some
pressure on selling prices but finished strongly as ideal
weather conditions ensured that demand continued
well into September and October. The late start to the
season, increasing raw material prices and severe
price competition resulted in disappointing margins
particularly in Ireland. Sales to US$ markets were
adversely affected by exchange rates but we
accepted lower margins in order to maintain 
our brands’ presence in these markets.
We have authorised investment in two five layer
extrusion lines at our main facility for the manufacture 
of silage stretchwrap in Leominster as we plan to
modernise the facility and improve efficiencies.
These lines should be ready for production in quarter 
2 of 2008 and will also enable us to produce our new
products SilotitePro
®
and Baletite
®
. Raw material input
prices are much higher for production for the 2008
season which will require a significant increase in
selling prices. Volumes, as always, will be dependent 
on weather conditions during the grass growing season. 
Volumes of silage sheet were disappointing as we lost
business in Ireland due to low prices from a competitor
who had installed new capacity. This business has
been regained for 2008.
Sales of our wide horticultural films increased
significantly due to more sales of field cover film
and exports to Europe, particularly Germany where
storm damage required replacement film. We see
opportunities for further growth in export markets.
Sales of container liner films reduced as our main
customer sourced local films for their conversion
plants in India and China.
Recycled Products
We are the leading recycler of polythene films in the
UK with an annual recycling capacity of nearly 70,000
tonnes. We recycle scrap from our own operations,
used products taken back from customers and scrap
purchased in the open market. We are also able to
recycle the more heavily contaminated scrap
including agricultural films. Recycled material is used 
in the manufacture of construction films including
damp proof course, refuse sacks and rigid products.
Recycled volumes increased during the year with
higher outputs at all sites and enabled us to show 
a reduction in our bought-in pellet. This arose 
despite the closure of recycling at Greenock as we
consolidated our recycling on four sites. The market
remained very tight for scrap with continued high
levels of export to the Far East as even the more
contaminated scrap is now exported. Upward
pressure on scrap prices continued. The price of
Packaging Recovery Notes remained at a low level.
At Dumfries, recycling outputs increased following 
our major investment in 2006.
In April 2007, we purchased a small washing plant 
in the Rhymney area from the Company’s
administrators for £0.4 million. This equipment was
able to process very dirty grades of scrap which we
could not handle elsewhere. Unfortunately, the costs
of running this equipment on a third-party site were
too high and we exited that site in November. We will
reinstall the equipment at our Rhymney site in April
2008. The equipment will also provide a base for a
second washing plant for the heavily contaminated
agricultural film which will be available once the new
regulations on non packaging farm plastic waste 
are introduced.
Our construction business trades under the Visqueen
Building Products name and manufactured volumes
were well ahead of 2006, although there was evidence
during the final quarter of demand slowing. Our new
computer system was implemented at the end of 
last year and some teething problems impacted 
on customer service levels during the first quarter.
These problems were resolved and we are now
operating at our expected high levels of 
customer service.
Recycled pellet
Refuse sacks made from recycled pellet
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 18 Report by Directors & Business Review 19
We again saw a strong performance from our
Specification Products business. The growth in
products specified by architects and end users is driven
by the efforts of our dedicated sales team for this sector
and the growing demand for products required for
brownfield sites. We are constantly reviewing our
product offering in order to supplement our traditional
Visqueen products and provide a more complete
service to our major customers. Our specification sales
grew by over 35% and Visqueen Building Products 
is now recognised as the leading supplier of these
products in the UK.
Sales volumes at our Greenock operations which 
now sits within Recycled Products increased during
the year.
Total volume sales of refuse sacks fell in the year as 
we lost some business on pricing. Manufacture at
Stockton was closed and extrusion and conversion
capacity at Heanor expanded.
Total volumes at our Chinese plant increased over
2006 as we moved some refuse sack business to
China on the closure of refuse sack manufacture at
Stockton. Sales from our new investment have been
slow as we continue to run trials for customers in
Europe, North America and Australasia. We are also
in discussions with significant European and North
American customers for supply within China as the
requirements for hygienic packaging of produce
increase. The plant is now approved for the British
Retail Consortium hygiene accreditation.
Our main issues in China are regulatory with the
European Commission imposing an anti-dumping
duty of 8.4% on all bags imported into Europe from
China. We have successfully requested an individual
review and the duty will be reduced to 4.3% from 
early 2008. While this represents an improvement, 
we are extremely disappointed that the duty has not
been reduced to zero which would have been the
conclusion of any business orientated and logical
review. The Chinese authorities have also impacted 
on the business by reducing the amount of
reclaimable VAT on exports.
Converted Products
Converted Products comprise all our print and
conversion plants and serve a wide range of 
markets from Industrial to Consumer.
Overall sales volume of industrial packaging was 
in line with 2006 despite some downgauging.
Sales of aggregate sacks recovered in 2007 but other
sales to the construction sector fell below last year
due to low activity levels towards the end of the year
from many customers.
Horticulture volumes recovered in 2007 due to better
spring weather.
Sales of fertiliser products were in line with expectations
but animal feed products saw a reduction, particularly in
the final quarter, with the market remaining depressed
and extremely price sensitive.
Margins remained under pressure as raw material
prices climbed throughout the year.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites were 
in line with 2006 despite very competitive market
conditions. Edinburgh saw volumes reduce as a major
customer moved to production in-house while Flint
volumes increased as an extrusion line and related
business was transferred on the closure of Scunthorpe.
Sales from our small trading operations fell against
2006 as we repatriated some business back to the
manufacturing sites. Despite the challenging
conditions, our trading business improved over 
2006 as it eliminated lower margin business.
Our Consumer Products business, VMB, is involved 
in printing and converting plain film mainly from our
Films business into packaging for the fresh produce,
bread and other food markets. After some strong
initial interest in degradable, biodegradable and
compostable products, demand has been confined 
to a small number of customers. We now anticipate
that the emphasis on reducing the use of packaging
will concentrate on downgauging products to 
enable less material to be used. The plant at
Worcester comprises seven eight colour printing
presses, three six colour printing presses together
with slitting and conversion machinery. In the second
quarter of 2007, we installed a laminator that enabled
the business to provide a complete solution to
customers’ packaging requirements.
Overall sales levels were consistent with 2006 as
growth with our larger customers and more food
packaging offset the loss of a large customer at the
beginning of the year. The year posed significant
challenges due to the prolonged rise in raw material
costs, the introduction of lamination, design changes
by several major customers and a much later year 
end surge in demand. VMB won a bronze award
(environmental category) at the EFTA print awards 
for Morrison’s organic apples range.
Factory at Xinhui, China
New extrusion equipment at Xinhui
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 19 20 Report by Directors & Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Our pre-press and plate making business provides
artwork, origination and plate making to both Group
businesses and external customers. Towards the end
of the year we installed the Du Pont FAST thermal
plate making equipment allowing us to eliminate
completely the use of solvent from our plate
manufacturing. Sales were down due to lower activity
levels from external customers who still account for
over 50% of total sales. 
North America
Our North American business comprises AT Films
based in Edmonton in Canada. They manufacture
polythene film for the North American horticultural
and agricultural markets and have a small conversion
facility which folds and packs bags used for the
storage of silage and grain.
The business was acquired in mid-August 2007 and
made a small operating profit based on volume sales
of 4,700 tonnes. AT Films is a seasonal business with
the main sales volumes in quarters two and three of
the calendar year.
The business acquired was run as a small part 
of the much larger AT Plastics polymer business 
and it is necessary for us to build our own business
infrastructure including IT, Finance, Logistics and
Purchasing. We have been fortunate to acquire an
experienced and committed management team led
by Calvin Mazurenko who is now Managing Director.
We seconded one of our recently retired business
Finance Directors from the UK to Canada to manage
the transition and recruited an experienced Financial
Controller. AT Films will implement our standard 
IT system in the first half of the year.
The business should deliver some volume growth in
2008 as we expect stronger demand for the supply of
bags to store grain for the biofuels industry. Polymer
prices have risen sharply in North America since we
acquired the business and the outlook for 2008 is
dependent on the success in recovering these higher
raw material costs. 
2007
Operating Profit £0.2m
Tonnes Sold 4,700
Bags for storage of silage and grain
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 20 Introduction 21 Report by Directors & Business Review 00
000
“bpi.consumer provides quality products, a 
reliable service and a superb turnaround to 
meet our demands. Such responsiveness 
is key to our operation in the fast moving 
consumer goods environment. Additionally, 
their innovation in terms of film downgauging
supports our environmental commitments
without compromising the high performance 
required to ensure extended shelf life for 
fresh produce – a critical factor for our retail
customer base.”
Chee Wai Tao Purchasing Manager,
Albert Bartlett & Sons, Vegetable Packers, Airdrie.
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 21 22 Report by Directors & Business Review
Tracy Smith
Sales Executive, 
bpi.consumer VMB
“Providing this type of added value to customers
like Albert Bartlett & Sons is what we are all about.
Our extensive experience and expertise in the
production of polythene films enables us to take
film packaging performances to new levels.
Understanding the stringent quality standards
required, we offer an unparalleled choice of 
films with high levels of product protection 
and excellent retail presentation options.”
Raising the bar
BPI embraces the combined challenges of providing
film packaging which reduces food waste and satisfies
the demanding response times required in the retail supply 
chain. From direct technical liaison with the multiple retailers 
to the constant monitoring of packaging and environmental
legislation we continue to evolve our multi-functional portfolio
to ensure it truly adds value where it counts.
Technical excellence
From the development of Modified Atmosphere Packaging 
to the production of the latest biopolymer packaging
solutions, bpi.consumer offers an enviable choice to 
today’s environmentally aware retailers. Able to guide
packers through the comprehensive flexible packaging
options available, more and more Packaging Technologists
turn to us for guidance. With environmental commitments
now a key metric we can provide the advice and verification
of the best film mediums going forward.
Seeing the bigger picture
As part of the BPI Group we enjoy a breadth of vision 
from intelligent raw material purchasing through the latest
manufacturing technologies to the post use recycling
activities of our sister divisions. This unique position in the 
UK food packaging marketplace allows us to develop
products with remarkable performance characteristics that 
offer impressive economic benefits. Looking towards the
future we are confident BPI will be at the forefront of
continued innovation.
– Modified atmosphere packaging
BPI Products used by 
Food & Beverage Packers
– Fruit and vegetable bags
– Fresh produce film
– Bread bags
– Deep freeze film
– Tray liners 
– Plain shrink film
– Printed shrink film
– Lidding film
– Resealable bags
– Lamination films
BPI-003 Annual Rpt 07 SMc.qxp  7/4/08  14:50  Page 22
