 rePort by directors & business review 5
2009 produced a good outturn for the Group, 
despite conditions remaining as challenging  
as 2008, with volatile input costs and reduced 
demand from certain sectors, particularly  
those dependent on activity in the  
construction industry.
The previously reported decisive actions taken  
to reduce excess capacity in the industrial part  
of our UK business have resulted in a reduction  
in losses from these activities. Combined with  
a continuing steady performance from the resilient 
agricultural and retail food sectors and reduced UK 
energy costs, we have, as previously indicated, 
produced results considerably ahead of 2008. 
We expect a continuing good performance in 2010, 
but economic and business risks remain, and we 
are therefore recommending that the remaining 
dividend payment for the year continues at the 
same level as for 2008. We continue to believe that 
it is prudent to preserve cash and maintain a strong 
balance sheet at the present time. 
REs Ults Total volumes for the year were 275,000 tonnes 
(2008: 305,000) reflecting the first full year of 
volume loss from the construction sector and the 
continuing drive from the retail sector to reduce 
the volume of packaging they consume by 
specifying thinner and stronger polythene films.  
In this respect, measurement of our activity by 
volume alone can be misleading, as we continue 
to enjoy a similar, or even greater, market share; 
but of products which are thinner and lighter.
On sales of £425 million (2008: £481 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring costs, 
increased to £1 9.0 million (2008: £1 2.6 million).
Operating profits were not impacted so greatly  
by unpredictable energy costs and, although  
raw material costs continued to be volatile,  
they remained at lower levels than during the 
summer of 2008.
A major improvement in our operating profits 
came from the reduction in costs in the industrial 
part of our UK business and, in particular, the 
decision to close our Stockton site which was 
highly dependent on the supply of packaging  
to the construction industry. 
Net restructuring costs of £3.1 million (2008:  
£5.4 million) reflect closure and redundancy costs 
in our UK and European businesses. £1 .7 million  
of the above costs were incurred in the phased 
closure of the facility at Stockton with the balance 
mainly on the closure of our Cowdenbeath plant 
and restructuring at our Hardenberg plant in  
the Netherlands. 
Net borrowing costs reduced from £4.2 million to 
£2.7 million. Average borrowings were lower due 
to a combination of lower input costs, improved 
trading and working capital control. Interest 
charges also benefitted from lower interest rates 
during the period. A change in the assumed 
impact of pension financing, from a credit of 
almost £1 million to a charge of £1 .4 million, 
resulted in the annual charge for net financing 
costs increasing from £3.3 million to £4.1 million.
The profit before tax was £1 1 .8 million (2008: £3.9 
million). Diluted earnings per share were 30.36p 
(2008: 10.67p). Diluted earnings per share, before 
restructuring costs, were 38.60p (2008: 25.53p).
DiViDEnD
The Board has decided to change the timing of the 
remaining dividend payment for 2009, in advance 
of changes in personal taxation after 5 April.
Accordingly, the Board is declaring a second 
interim dividend for the year of 7.5p per share  
for the year ended 31 December 2009 (2008: no 
second interim), and will not be recommending 
the payment of a final dividend for the year  
(2008: 7.5p), making a total for the year of 1 1 .0p 
(2008: 1 4.5p). 
This second interim dividend is payable on  
31 March 2010, to shareholders on the register  
at the close of business on 1 2 March 2010. 
The Board intends to return to last year’s  
payment schedule for any dividends which  
may be paid in respect of the trading year 2010, 
with the interim payable in November 2010 and 
the final in July 201 1 . 
c as H Fl OW an D BORROWings The Group generated pleasing levels of cash in 
2009 and we were successful in reducing debt. 
Operating cash flow from trading amounted to 
£27.6 million and improvements in working capital 
generated a further £1 5.1 million. Net capital 
expenditure absorbed £1 2.7 million and interest, 
tax, and dividends a further £8.6 million. Year-end 
foreign currency borrowings dropped by some 
£2.4 million on translation. Accordingly, we were 
able to lower borrowings by £23.8 million to £52.2 
million which is excellent progress. We expect 
borrowings to reduce further in the current year.
Capital expenditure for 2010 is currently  
envisaged to be some 20% higher than 2009, 
which was marginally behind expectations, due  
to postponement in delivery of certain large items 
of spend at Ardeer. Major items of expenditure  
for 2010 include a new line at Ardeer for the 
manufacture of wide agricultural and horticultural 
films; upgrading of the plant at Bromborough  
to increase production of thinner stronger films; 
an out-of-line tube former for industrial packaging 
at Hardenberg; and a new printing press at Zele  
to build on their success in supplying high quality 
printed film to the food packing industry. 
gROUP P Ensi On s c HEmE
The IAS 1 9 deficit in the pension scheme increased 
to £57 million (2008: £26 million). Whilst we saw a 
recovery in asset values this increased deficit was 
driven by higher assumptions on the rate of future 
inflation and a reduction in the assumed discount 
rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme.
c am EROn mc l atc HiE  
cHai Rman rePort by directors & business review 6
Following a review of investment strategy,  
a change was made to the structure of the 
investments in the Scheme. All direct equity 
investments were sold, and the Scheme now 
holds equity futures to the same value, with 
physical assets held in cash, corporate bonds  
and index-linked gilts. 
A small allocation remains in absolute return 
assets. This strategy is designed to de-risk  
the investment profile, whilst maintaining  
the potential upside of returns from the  
equity markets. 
BOaRD cH ang Es On 24 July, the Board appointed David Harris as 
Group Finance Director following the resignation 
of Anne Thorburn who left to take up an opportunity 
within the private equity sector. David joined BPI  
in 1 996 and has been employed in a number of 
financial and general management roles during  
his career with the Group. In his previous role as 
Managing Director of our UK industrial operations, 
he was involved in the significant restructuring  
of those operations. 
On 1 8 August, the Board appointed David Warnock 
as an independent Non-Executive Director of  
the Company. David has 30 years’ investment 
experience in both public and private companies, 
in both the UK and USA. He co-founded Aberforth 
Partners LLP and was a partner for 1 9 years until 
he retired from the firm at the end of 2008. Prior  
to Aberforth he was with Ivory and Sime plc and  
3i plc. David is Non-Executive Director of Phoenix 
IT Group plc, Standard Life European Private 
Equity Trust plc and City Health Clinic Group Ltd. 
gROUP D EVEl OPmEnt 2009 was dominated by the run-down of our 
Stockton facility. 
With over 30,000 tonnes of capacity to move  
to other Group sites, this closure was always 
envisaged as a major exercise with over 10,000 
different individual specifications to transfer. With 
minor differences in packaging standards at our 
various plants, this led to some issues during the 
second quarter in transferring sack production  
to Ardeer and Greenock. These issues have  
now been addressed and many customers have 
commented on the improved standard of print 
quality they are now receiving from Ardeer.
We are now in the process of transferring industrial 
film production and we anticipate completing that 
exercise by the end of March. The last machine 
running at Stockton will be the wide line that 
manufactures agricultural and horticultural films. 
Due to the potential difficulty in moving this very 
large line, and also the changes in specifications 
which have occurred since it was installed over  
20 years ago, we took the decision to install a new 
line at Ardeer, as a replacement for the Stockton 
line, at a cost of some £4.5 million.
This new five-layer co-extrusion line will be one  
of the largest film lines in the world, with capacity 
of over 1 5,000 tonnes per annum and capable of 
producing films up to 25 metres wide. It will be 
capable of covering all the specifications of the  
old Stockton line and gives us 5,000 tonnes of 
extra capacity in a market which has proved very 
resilient during the current recession. We currently 
anticipate that this line will be in production by  
the end of June, by which time we will have ceased 
all activity at Stockton.
During the year, we commenced manufacture  
of mailing bags for mail order and on-line retailers, 
a sector in which we did not have a presence. This 
followed an investment at our Swansea facility and 
has been supported by transfer of equipment 
from Stockton and new capital expenditure on 
both extrusion, print and conversion equipment.  
It is our intention to invest further in this activity 
and broaden the scope of what we can offer  
to this growing sector.
In January this year, we announced our intention 
to close our film extrusion plant at Brampton  
and transfer the work to other Group sites.  
Despite the efforts of a loyal and competent 
workforce, changes in specification to thinner 
films, combined with an out-dated factory layout 
with low roof height, made it more and more 
difficult to remain competitive. A drop in demand 
for suitable product during 2009 drove us to  
the conclusion that there was no viable future  
for that plant. The closure costs of £0.6m will  
be charged in the 2010 accounts. 
It is currently anticipated that the restructuring 
costs for 2010 will be offset by a gain on the sale  
of the Stockton site.
Ra W mat ERial cO sts A year ago we indicated that raw material prices 
had fallen dramatically and that we envisaged  
a period of relative stability at these lower levels.
Notwithstanding that worldwide demand  
had fallen, and that the polymer producers had 
brought on massive new capacity, we failed to 
allow for the fact that the supply of ethylene and 
ethane, the raw materials for polyethylene, was 
now firmly in the hands of oil companies, rather 
than the polymer producers. Despite reduced 
demand, they have managed to keep the price  
of ethylene at a fairly high level, thereby forcing 
polymer producers to pass on these costs to 
polymer users and thereafter to the consumer. 
Prices have crept back up, but thankfully not to  
the levels we experienced in the summer of 2008. 
There is currently insufficient demand to support 
further price increases, but pricing of these input 
costs does not seem to be following market forces 
and we have experienced increases in January  
and February.
En ERgy cO sts One consequence of the recession has been the 
reduction in demand for energy in the UK. This  
has resulted in more stable pricing for electricity  
in the short-term, although sadly there is not  
yet any confirmation that sufficient generating 
capacity will actually be built in the UK to cope 
with demand after this recession has ended.  
We are managing these costs as well as we can 
but further price spikes are inevitable in the UK 
market in the coming years. At the present time 
we have covered our energy costs for 2010 and 
the early part of 201 1 .
PROs PEcts an D cURRE nt tR a Ding As with last year, the defensive sectors of the 
business – agriculture, retail food and related 
transit packaging, healthcare and refuse sacks  
– currently remain resilient.
We are still experiencing reduced demand from 
the remainder of our business – construction, 
industrial and non-food retail – but it is getting  
no worse, and with our capacity more in line with 
this demand, we expect to stem the losses from 
the industrial part of our UK business by the end  
of June. After that time, we should start to see the 
full benefits of the Stockton closure. In order to 
continue supporting customers, while we relocate 
major items of plant to Ardeer, additional operating 
costs will continue during the first half of 2010  
at Stockton.
The UK and Irish markets are in the grip of a 
prolonged recession for their construction industries, 
with little sign of any light on the horizon. 
Parts of the UK public sector now face many  
years of reduced spend and this could easily result 
in reduced demand for some of our products.
We have been successful in winning new business 
in the UK bread bag market and are making inroads 
to the UK mail order and on-line shopping market.
When the new wide film line is in operation at Ardeer, 
we have opportunities in agriculture and horticulture 
that we were previously not able to service although 
this is unlikely to have an impact until 201 1 .
We are, therefore, faced with many challenges  
and some opportunities. 
It is also inevitable in the current economic situation, 
that some of our customers will have trading 
difficulties, resulting in decreased demand or worse.
It would, therefore, be imprudent not to have a 
sense of caution when looking at the potential 
outcome for 2010, but, at the same time, your 
Board is confident that the Group continues to 
take steps to produce the best results we can  
in what remains a very challenging market.
c am EROn mcl atcH iE
cHai Rman 1 March 2010
c Hai Rman ’s stat EmEnt  
