 16
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Business Overview
Summary
Group operating profit, before net restructuring, fell from £1 9.0m to  
£1 7.9m as margins were squeezed by increasing raw material costs.  
Overall volumes increased from 2009 as we saw some recovery in UK 
construction related activity and European industrial demand and robust 
demand from the agricultural sector. The decisive actions taken during  
2008 continue to reduce operating costs and our Stockton site was 
finally closed.
Raw Material Prices
20 1 0 proved to be another year of raw material price volatility with the 
LD Platts price index showing price increases in 1 0 out of 1 2 months. 
Prices did not, however, reach the heights of August 2008 but the average 
for 20 1 0 was the highest ever recorded. There is no doubt that the move 
in 2008 from quarterly to monthly pricing of ethylene, the raw material 
for polymer, has contributed to this increased volatility.
The prices increased initially due to rising raw material costs and then
tightness of supply with the lack of the expected supply and competition 
from the Middle East. This new Middle East commodity polymer is now 
starting to arrive in Europe, but only in relatively small volumes. While  
prices eased in early summer, they finished the year strongly on the  
back of higher oil prices, with the supply of LDPE very tight following  
the closure of a number of smaller LDPE plants in Europe in 2009. 
The outlook for prices in 20 1 1 remains uncertain, but prices have increased
in January and February and have now reached a record high, surpassing 
the previous high in August 2008. 
Sales and Margins
T otal sales increased by 1 2.5% to £4 78m reflecting a small increase 
in volumes and higher raw material prices. Sales to destinations outside 
the UK were 43%. Sales to the more resilient sectors of the retail food 
chain, agriculture and horticulture, healthcare and waste services were 
70% of total sales, with construction reduced to 1 1%.
Margins were squeezed by the continued raw material price increases but 
this reduction was partially offset by the continued benefits arising from 
our restructuring, including the closure of Brampton and final closure of 
Stockton. The sales mix improved as we continued to exit poorer margin 
business. Exchange rates continued to help as the weakness of sterling 
helped UK export volumes and margins and made imports of product 
to the UK more expensive.
Energy Costs
During 20 1 0, UK electricity costs remained at more sensible levels with 
costs now more in-line with our European competitors. During the year 
we changed electricity suppliers and our new three-year contract provides 
more flexibility for forward purchasing. European costs saw a reduction 
due to lower rates in Holland. The UK does, however, remain our most 
expensive country for electricity costs.
All energy prices for 20 1 1 are now fixed.
Our UK energy costs will increase from April 20 1 1 as the benefits from 
our participation in Climate Change Agreement (CCA) schemes are  
reduced by European Union rulings. In the UK, we believe we are exempt  
from the Carbon Reduction Commitment (CRC) but we have complied  
with the registration process. However, the rules are under review along  
with CCAs as the current proposals are to turn this scheme into a tax  
with potential for significantly increased costs. The Government must  
ensure that the UK remains competitive on energy prices. 
Group operating profit, before net 
restructuring, fell from £19.0 million to 
£1 7 .9 million as margins were squeezed  
by increasing raw material costs. Overall 
volumes increased from 2009 as we  
saw some recovery in UK construction 
related activity and European industrial 
demand and robust demand from the 
agricultural sector. The decisive actions 
taken during 2008 continue to reduce 
operating costs.
John Langlands
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’ s Review Leading through...
our people
The expertise of our people is key to  
BPI’s continuing success. Specialised 
processes such as the recycling of heavily 
contaminated waste (pictured) rely on our 
highly skilled employees. Throughout the 
Group, we benefit from the experience and 
knowledge of a world class workforce. 18
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
Other major items of expenditure in 20 1 0 included the upgrading of extrusion 
equipment at Bromborough following the closure of Brampton, a new extrusion 
line at Swansea, a printing press at Zele and a silage stretch line in Canada. 
Planned expenditure in 20 1 1 will include investment in a washing plant,  
a new extrusion line at Roeselare in Belgium and a new printing press 
at Hardenberg in Holland. 
Strategy
Our strategy is set out on Page 1 0 and has been supported:
In the agricultural markets by:
Installing a five-layer wide agricultural line at Ardeer to replace the  • 
old line at Stockton.
Approving and beginning the installation of a stretch line for silage • 
stretchwrap in Canada to supply the North American silage stretch market.
In the printed consumer markets by:
Installing an eight-colour printing press at Zele. • 
Installing further machinery at Swansea to service the market  • 
for bags for mail-order and on-line retailers.
In recycling by:
Extending The Green Sack • 
™
 brand of refuse sack to other market sectors.
Authorising investment in a washing plant at one of our existing  • 
recycling sites to recycle contaminated agricultural waste
On the rationalisation of UK films and UK industrial sectors by:
Completing the phased run down at Stockton to focus production  • 
at Ardeer and Greenock.
Closing our small plant at Brampton in Cumbria. • 
Key Relationships
The Group does not have any customers that amount to more than  
3% of the Group turnover.
The Group purchases its main raw materials from a number of key suppliers 
including Dow, ExxonMobil, T otal and Polimeri Europac and has supply 
arrangements in place. Most of these suppliers have a number of plants  
in Europe, North America and the Middle East and alternative sources  
are available, except for some very specialised grades. 
Management Changes
Ian McDarmaid, our Group Purchasing Director, will retire in May after  
serving the business since 1 997 when he rejoined. Ian has done an excellent  
job through a period of very volatile polymer pricing and has earned a well 
deserved retirement.
He will be replaced by David Pendlebury, who looks after our UK plain  
film activities and joined the Group in 1 997 with the acquisition of the  
Low & Bonar film plants.
Scrap
Scrap prices increased steadily throughout the year as availability  
remained difficult with 70% of plastic packaging waste being exported  
for reprocessing overseas. Due to the lack of available good clean waste  
we continue to concentrate our recycling activities on the more difficult  
and heavily contaminated waste, including agricultural film waste. We have 
therefore authorised, in principle, investment in a second large washing  
plant to be installed at one of our existing recycling sites to recycle more 
contaminated agricultural waste and generate more feedstock to grow 
The Green Sack
™
 range.
Sales Volumes
Our total sales volumes of manufactured product increased from 275,000 
tonnes to 280,000 tonnes as we experienced some recovery in the UK 
construction activity and strong recovery in European industrial products. 
Volumes, as calculated by manufactured tonnage, were steady in the UK  
and Canada but Europe was up by 8% as it experienced a strong recovery 
in industrial volumes and continued growth in agricultural volumes.
We continued to see high levels of downgauging as the combination  
of environmental pressures and high polymer prices made customers 
demand thinner films.
Restructuring
Our major focus of restructuring in 20 1 0 was the final rundown and  
closure of operations at our Stockton plant whose closure was announced  
in November 2008. The transfer of the industrial film lines from Stockton  
to Ardeer was completed during quarter 2 of 20 1 0. We decided it was  
too difficult and costly to transfer our wide agricultural line and a new line  
was installed and commissioned during quarter 4 of 20 1 0. We were able  
to exit the Stockton site at the end of June, avoiding the continuance  
of duplicated costs. The site was sold in June.
In April 20 1 0, we completed the closure of our Brampton facility in Cumbria 
with the transfer of production elsewhere within the Group. The site had 
been marginal for several years with a significant deterioration in 2009 
due to lower volumes. The site was sold in November.
Elsewhere, we continued to take all necessary steps to reduce our cost base.
We cannot overstate the amount of disruption all of these changes have 
made to the business and our employees continue to perform well under 
these very difficult circumstances.
Capital Expenditure
T otal capital expenditure at £1 5m was greater than depreciation but lower 
than planned as some projects ran behind schedule. The major expenditure 
was at Ardeer, as we spent over £4m installing a new wide line for agricultural 
and horticultural film and the associated extrusion hall. Other expenditure at 
Ardeer included £2m on the extrusion hall and equipment transferred from 
Stockton. This cash expenditure of over £6m at Ardeer was offset by the 
proceeds of £6m from the sale of the Stockton site. 19
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Michael Huyghe, who also joined the Group in 1 997 with the Low & Bonar  
plants and is currently Managing Director of our European business, will assume 
responsibility for the UK stretchfilm activities. This will enable the consolidation 
of our leading branded silage products and deliver efficiencies in product 
development and utilisation of our stretchfilm assets.
Andrew Green, who joined the Group in 1 994 on the acquisition of High 
Performance Films, a family owned business, will assume responsibility for the 
collation shrink and converter film activities. This will enable the development  
of our market position in consumer printed products. Andrew will now be 
responsible for all the non-stretchfilm activities in the UK.
Return On Capital Employed
Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) remains our main financial target  
and, while we have achieved around 1 3% in the last two financial years,  
our short-term objective is to achieve 1 5%.
Outlook for 20 1 1
The current economic outlook remains uncertain, but over 70% of our  
sales are in the more resilient sectors of the food retail chain, agriculture  
and horticulture, healthcare and waste collection. 
We have experienced raw material price increases in January and 
February and prices are now at record highs.
Exchange rate movements in the euro and US dollar remain in our favour  
in that they make our exports more competitive and make imports from  
these areas more expensive. 
We have taken decisive action to eliminate excess capacity, reduce our cost 
base and move our business towards more resilient and growing sectors.
There is no doubt that 20 1 1 will be challenging, but the positive actions  
we have taken and the encouraging start to the year enables us to look 
forward with confidence. 
Operating Review
 
Europe
 2010 2009 
 £m £m
Operating profit before net restructuring 9.2 8.0  
Net restructuring (0.3)  (0.7)
Profit from operations 8.9 7.3 
 
Tonnes sold 64,000 59,200
Our European business comprises two manufacturing sites in Belgium,  
one manufacturing site in the Netherlands and a sales operation in France.  
The business specialises in the manufacture and sale of high quality printed  
film for the food industry; form-fill-and-seal films (FFS) and heavy-duty  
sacks, including valve bags and Waviblok for the chemical, construction, 
horticulture and fertiliser industries; pallet protection films including stretch 
hoods; insulation film; general industrial films; and silage and packaging 
stretchwrap. Main markets are Belgium, the Netherlands, north of France  
and Germany, except for silage stretch, which is sold throughout  
mainland Europe.
The operating profits increased from £8.0m to £9.2m as volumes increased  
and good control over costs, production efficiencies and scrap was maintained.
Sales volumes increased by 8% as we experienced strong demand in 
industrial products and achieved some growth in agricultural products. 
T otal volume sales of silage wrap were well ahead of 2009 despite  
unfavourable weather conditions in some markets as we saw recovery  
in eastern European markets. Sales of our new products SilotitePro
®
 and 
Baletite
®
 continued to grow and we are planning for further growth in 
20 1 1. Baletite
®
 is a replacement for traditional round bale netting and  
SilotitePro
®
 is a new generation of silage film with improved economical 
and environmental properties and both will reinforce our market leading  
position in the silage wrap business. Increasing raw material prices from 
January 20 1 0 impacted on margins which reduced compared to 2009.
Silage bale wrapping using BPI’s Silotite
®
 agricultural stretchfilm.
Report by Directors and Business Review 20
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
UK and Ireland
 2010 2009 
 £m  £m
Operating profit before net restructuring  7.9 1 0.2 
Net restructuring  3.1  (2.4)
Profit from operations 1 1.0 7.8
 
Tonnes sold 203,900 204,700
Our UK and Ireland business consists of 1 4 UK manufacturing sites and  
4 sales/service offices in the UK and Ireland. It also includes our plant  
in China as most of its production is currently sold in the UK.
Operating profits fell as rising raw material prices squeezed margins, 
particularly in the consumer and silage sectors. Benefits arising from  
our restructuring programme reduced operating costs and offset some  
of the impact of rising raw material prices.
Volumes fell marginally to 204,000 tonnes. Some recovery in construction 
related activity was offset by lower volumes of industrial products. T otal  
sales to the more resilient sectors accounted for 72% of sales, with sales  
to the construction sector amounting to 1 2%.
T otal UK costs fell by £2.0m as costs were reduced by the closure  
of Brampton and final closure of Stockton.
Our UK film products include a range of film on the reel for a variety of  
different markets and include products such as stretchfilm, plain shrink
film, printed shrink film, produce films, bread films, lamination films,  
liquid packaging films and surface protection films. Incorporating highly 
respected brand names such as Novatek
®
, Brithene
®
 and Supreme,  
the range of products provides secure cost effective transit and  
primary packaging for the most demanding applications.
Sales of collation shrink wrap, which are mainly to the food and drink  
industries, fell by nearly 4% as the combination of high raw material  
costs and environmental concerns led to more downgauging. 
Demand for pallet protection film, insulation film and general purpose
film remained subdued with lack of volume putting pressure on margins. 
Sales of Bontite
®
, our high quality industrial stretch product, increased 
during the year.
Volume sales of printed film for the food industry, including film for  
deep frozen vegetables and frozen chips, were ahead of 2009 despite  
a significant level of downgauging. Raw material price increases kept 
margins under pressure. A new eight-colour printing press to replace  
two older presses and improve efficiency and increase capacity was  
installed in the summer of 20 1 0. 
Industrial volumes recovered strongly with good growth in sales of  
form-fill-and-seal (FFS). Sales to the petrochemical sector were ahead  
of 2009 as a number of customers continued to export to the Far East.  
While demand for open mouth bags continued to reduce in 2009,  
we experienced a recovery in our specialised bags. Margins saw  
some recovery despite the frequent raw material price increases.
Production volumes were well ahead of 2009 but with improved 
scrap rates and total production costs below 2009.
T otal capital expenditure was nearly €4m as we installed a replacement 
printing press at Zele and invested in more prestretch equipment at 
Roeselare to enable us to produce a range of thinner products. We have 
developed prestretched products for both the FFS and other markets 
and would expect volumes of these higher added value products to grow 
over the next few years. At Roeselare, we have ordered a three-layer 
co-extrusion line to further focus on better added value products and 
authorised a printing press and extrusion equipment at Hardenberg 
to increase capacity. 
Our European business remains well placed to deliver further growth 
with clear strategic plans for each site. Zele in Belgium will continue  
to focus on stretch products, particularly silage and printed food film. 
Hardenberg in Holland is focused on industrial products and is a leading 
supplier of FFS to the petrochemical and other industries. Roeselare 
in Belgium will focus on a reduced number of products and developing
a range of prestretched thinner products.
The Green Sack
™
. 21
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Sales to the converter sector were in-line with 2009 with strong growth  
in the bread and mailing sectors offsetting lower volumes in lamination  
and move to in-house supply by some customers. 
Bromborough benefitted from the closure of Brampton in April as 
production was transferred. The upgrade of extrusion lines to increase 
production and enable the production of thinner films commenced and 
will be completed during quarter 1 of 20 1 1.
T otal volume sales of industrial stretch wrap were 4% down on 2009,  
as we saw some very competitive pricing in cast machine stretchwrap.  
Our sales of prestretch WrapsmartUltra
®
 product continued to grow.  
The new WrapsmartUltra
®
 hand roll product is 7 micron compared to our 
traditional hand roll at 1 2 to 1 7 micron and, therefore, uses nearly half the 
material. The new hand rolls offer the same strength and high performance 
levels as standard stretchfilm products, despite their ultra-light weight 
and thinner gauge. Our cast lines continued to operate at close to capacity  
as exchange rate movements have made us more competitive against  
the European producers. The Bridgwater site is now fully focused on cast 
stretchwrap and operates as a low cost, high volume, high performance 
manufacturer of cast industrial stretchwrap. Our Widnes plant continues  
to produce a range of blown hand rolls for the packaging industry.
Sales of silage stretch were in-line with 2009 despite unfavourable 
weather conditions. In the UK, we have positioned ourselves as suppliers 
to the leading co-operatives and agricultural merchants who wish to sell 
our well marketed, branded, high quality silage film. We commenced sales,
mainly into Scandinavia, of our next generation silage film, SilotitePro
®
, 
which offers farmers significant cost savings when making baled silage. 
Increasing raw material prices from January 20 1 0 impacted on margins 
which reduced compared to 2009. The harsh winter of 20 1 0/20 1 1 has 
resulted in farmers feeding large volumes of baled forage rapidly depleting 
their stocks which bodes well for our silage film sales in the summer
of 20 1 1. 
T otal volumes of our wide film activities were just ahead of 2009 despite  
the disruption caused by the closure of the Stockton line in June and the 
installation of a new wide line at Ardeer in quarter 4.
Volumes of silage sheet were up on 2009 as we increased sales in the 
UK and introduced a new product; Visqueen Clingseal
®
, a thin silage film 
designed to sit directly beneath the traditional silage sheet and reduce 
wastage in the silage clamp.
Sales of horticultural films were in-line with 2009 with some growth 
in exports to France and Germany. There is no doubt that our product 
quality began to suffer as the Stockton line reached the end of its useful 
life. The product from the new line is much improved and this new five-
layer wide line will provide opportunities for the further development 
of our more specialised films. 
We are the leading recycler of polythene films in the UK with an annual 
recycling capacity of nearly 70,000 tonnes. We recycle scrap from 
our own operations, used products taken back from customers and 
scrap purchased in the open market. We are also able to recycle the 
more heavily contaminated scrap, including agricultural films. Recycled 
material is used in the manufacture of construction films, including 
damp-proof course, refuse sacks, rigid products and a range of 
other products.
Our construction activities trade under the Visqueen Building Products  
brand and supply construction films including temporary protective 
sheeting, damp-proof membrane, damp-proof course and a number of 
specialist products to the major builders merchants in the UK. Following 
the slowdown in construction activity in the UK and Ireland in 2008 
and 2009, we experienced some recovery in 20 1 0 as sales volumes 
were up by 8% despite a disappointing last quarter due to poor weather. 
The outlook for the construction industry remains uncertain and, given 
weak demand and excess capacity, selling prices and margins will 
remain under pressure. 
Our specification products business returned to growth with sales up  
by over 30% against 2009 as we continue to increase our market share. 
Sales volumes of refuse sacks increased over 2009 as we achieved  
growth with our The Green Sack
™
 range at a major retailer and new 
business in the food services/janitorial sector. Sales of The Green Sack
™
,
a 1 00% recycled product including UK farm waste, have continued to 
grow and are now stocked by a major UK retailer. Opportunities exist
to target other retailers in both the UK and Europe.
Report by Directors and Business Review 22
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chief Executive’ s Review ( continued)
An area of risk is in the public sector as they look for savings to meet  
their reduced expenditure targets. We supply both the local authority  
market for domestic refuse sacks and the NHS with aprons and clinical  
waste sacks and we are examining downgauging and lower cost  
products for these markets.
Recycling volumes increased in the year reflecting higher sales activity  
and more throughput at our washing plants in Rhymney and Dumfries.
As securing scrap becomes more difficult, combined with the need  
for more pellet to support our growth in The Green Sack
™
 range,  
we have approved, in principle, the installation of a new washing plant  
for recycling contaminated agricultural waste at one of our recycling sites.
Scrap and repro prices increased steadily throughout the year,  
putting pressure on margins.
Sales of converted products, including printed film and bags, comprise  
sales from our print and conversion plants and serve a wide range  
of markets from construction to industrial to consumer.
Our industrial activities endured a difficult year as we completed the 
transfer of machinery from Stockton to Ardeer to enable the closure of 
Stockton. We completed the building of an extrusion hall at Ardeer and 
moved four film lines including three with in-line print to Ardeer. The moves 
were complex and took longer than expected, causing some frustration  
to our customer base in terms of quality and service. These relocation  
issues were mainly resolved during the second half and the plant ran  
efficiently in the final quarter. 
The closure of Stockton and relocation to Ardeer and Greenock has enabled 
our industrial activities to realign capacity and considerably reduce our cost 
base. The Ardeer site, like Greenock in 2009, has experienced considerable 
disruption with a consequent impact on performance and we anticipate a 
much improved performance in 20 1 1 as the transferred lines and enlarged 
operations settle down. We did see a significant improvement in the 
performance of Greenock in 20 1 0 following its year of disruption in 2009. 
Following the completion of restructuring, our UK industrial operations 
have been rebranded as Visqueen to retain and reflect the association 
with the brand ‘Visqueen
®
’. Many of our agricultural, horticultural and  
sack products are sold under the Visqueen
®
 name. 
T otal sales volume of industrial packaging to the construction and industrial 
markets fell by 4% despite a recovery in the construction sector and some 
volume was transferred to Europe. The main increase in construction 
came in brick, block and air-crete markets with aggregates and insulation 
remaining steady and a small pick up in the paving sector.
Volumes were down in chemicals, fertiliser and animal feed sectors but 
sales to the furniture and bedding sector were ahead of 2009.
Xinhui (China) facility (T op).
Worcester (UK) facility (Bottom). 23
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Sales to the horticultural industry were reasonable but tailed off in the 
final quarter as the cold weather pushed some sales back. 
Our backseam conversion line with in-line print began supply to the 
construction sector and we have now secured a contract for the supply  
of packaging to the cement industry as it moves certain products 
from paper to polythene packaging.
Sales volumes at our small manufacturing sites fell as we transferred the 
industrial products at Swansea to Ardeer and Greenock. Swansea will 
now focus on the manufacture and supply of mailing bags for mail-order 
and on-line retailers. This has been supported by investment in extrusion, 
print and conversion. Swansea became part of our consumer operations  
from January 20 1 1. 
Our small trading operation at Norwich continues to generate 
acceptable returns. 
Flint continues to focus on higher added value business for the  
pharmaceutical and food sectors and improved its performance in 20 1 0. 
Our consumer plant at Worcester is involved in printing and converting 
plain film into packaging for the fresh produce, bread and other food 
markets. The plant now has two ten-colour printing presses, seven  
eight-colour printing presses and a laminator, making it one of the  
largest and most modern facilities in Europe.
Sales volumes increased 1 2% over 2009 as we benefitted from a full  
year of supply of bread packaging to a major UK customer. The significant 
increase in raw material costs combined with the supermarkets continued 
attempts to reduce costs led to a very competitive environment and 
resulted in reduced margins. 
Our consumer sector in China became busier as we exported bread  
and produce bags to Australasia and the Middle East as well as the UK.
Our pre-press and plate making business provides artwork, origination  
and printing plates to Group businesses and to external customers.  
Overall sales were down on 2009, with lower demand from both internal  
and external customers, and the business recorded a loss. Action has  
been taken to reduce the cost base.
T otal capital expenditure on the UK was over £1 0m, with more than £6m  
spent at Ardeer as we completed the transfer of plant from Stockton  
and built an extrusion hall for the new wide agricultural line which was 
commissioned in the final quarter. Other expenditure included upgrading 
equipment at Bromborough and installing a new line at Swansea.
Major capital expenditure in 20 1 1 will include the installation of a new  
washing plant to increase recycling of contaminated agricultural waste. 
The UK business should see benefit in 20 1 1 from the completion of the 
restructuring in our industrial activities and the business seems well 
placed to meet the challenges of 20 1 1. 
North America
 2010 2009 
 £m £m
Operating profit 0.8  0.8
 
Tonnes sold 1 1,650 1 1,400
Our North American business comprises A T Films based at Edmonton in 
Canada. The main plant manufactures polythene film for the North American 
horticultural and agricultural markets and we also have a small conversion 
facility at Westlock in Canada which folds and packs bags used for the 
storage of silage and grain.
Sales volumes were disappointingly just ahead of the previous year, 
with construction related sales down nearly 25% due to the decline in 
construction markets. Horticultural sales fell 1 4% due to extremely 
competitive pricing particularly in overwintering films which protect 
crops during the colder months.
Agricultural sales were, however, 1 2% ahead of 2009 despite some 
unusual weather patterns. Sales of silage sheet were significantly ahead 
as our new products, including vapour-resistant sheeting and wide-width 
films continued to gain momentum. Grain bags sales were 26% ahead 
of 2009 as we diversified our distribution base and launched our  
new brand Grainflex
™
. We primed the silage wrap market by bringing  
in product from the UK.
Margins suffered as the very competitive market made it difficult  
to recover the polymer price increases.
Despite the reduction in margins, an improved sales mix, good control  
over costs and benefits from in-house recycling and exchange rates  
enabled the business to report maintained sterling profits.
A recycling unit was transferred from the UK and became operational 
in March 20 1 0 enabling us to avoid external recycling. A co-extrusion  
line for the manufacture of silage stretchwrap is currently being installed 
and will enable us to start supplying the North American silage wrap 
market in 20 1 1. Installation of this capacity for new products will enable
us to grow volumes in 20 1 1 and improve our performance.
The strategy for North America is to increase volumes by introducing 
new products and fill available capacity. The introduction of silage 
stretchwrap will enable us to offer our agricultural customer base 
a complete range of silage products including sheet, bags, tubes 
and stretchwrap.
Report by Directors and Business Review Leading through...
our brands
BPI brands communicate excellence and 
inspire a confidence which has generated 
exceptional customer loyalty. There is no 
better example of this than the Visqueen
®
 
family, which encompasses agricultural 
(pictured), construction, industrial and 
healthcare products. The Chartered Institute 
Of Marketing recognised Visqueen Clingseal
®
 
with the 2010 Marketing Excellence  
Award for Manufacturing.
