 07
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Introduction
20 1 0 showed evidence of further improvement in the underlying  
performance of our business. The Group benefitted from previously 
reported actions to align capacity with demand and significantly 
reduced costs in the UK business. However, this progress was 
impacted by escalating raw material costs during the year.
Despite increases in raw material costs of some £45m, operating profits 
were only £1.1m less than 2009. The Board is encouraged by this very 
satisfactory performance in difficult circumstances and are recommending 
an increase in the dividend for the year. 
Results
T otal volumes for the year were 280,000 tonnes (2009: 275,000) 
reflecting a slight recovery in demand from the construction and
industrial sectors and robust sales of agricultural stretchfilm. 
On sales of £4 78m (2009: £425m), operating profit, before net 
restructuring, decreased to £1 7.9m (2009: £1 9.0m).
Operating profits were impacted by a substantial increase in raw material  
costs, due to the inevitable time lag in passing these on to our customers.  
All other costs were tightly controlled and we saw improved efficiencies  
in many operations.
Net restructuring reflects costs of £1.0m for the closure of the Brampton  
site and certain other personnel changes, offset by a £3.8m gain on sales  
of the Stockton and Brampton sites. The property gain enabled us to show  
a positive contribution from restructuring in 20 1 0 of £2.8m (2009: negative 
£3.1m). We previously indicated that restructuring costs for 20 1 0 would  
be offset by this gain, although the 20 1 0 gain on the Stockton site should  
be seen in light of significant restructuring costs incurred in closing that 
site in 2008 and 2009.
Borrowing costs reduced from £2.7m to £2.1m, reflecting lower average 
borrowings during the year. 
This reduction in borrowing costs was offset by an increase in the charge  
for pension financing from £1.4m to £1.9m, resulting in a slightly reduced  
net financing cost of £4.0m (2009: £4.1million).
The profit before tax was £1 6.7m (2009: £1 1.8m). Diluted earnings per  
share were 5 1.07p (2009: 30.36p). Diluted Earnings Per Share, before 
net restructuring, were 38.3 1p (2009: 38.60p).
Dividend
After the increase in the interim dividend to 3.65p per share (2009: 3.5p), 
the Board is recommending an increase in the final dividend to 7.85p 
per share (2009: 7.5p), making a total for the year of 1 1.5p per share  
(2009: 1 1.0p).
As we indicated in last year’s accounts, the Board intends to return  
to the payment calendar which prevailed before 2009, with the final  
dividend payable in July 20 1 1.
This dividend will be payable to shareholders on the register at the 
close of business on 1 8 March 20 1 1.
2010 showed evidence of further 
improvement in the underlying 
performance of our business. Despite 
increases in raw material costs of some 
£45 million, operating profits were only 
£1. 1 million less than 2009. The Board  
is encouraged by this very satisfactory 
performance in difficult circumstances 
and are recommending an increase  
in the dividend for the year. 
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
Chairman’ s Statement
Report by Directors and Business Review 08
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
Chairman’ s Statement ( continued)
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group generated similar operating cash flow to 2009, but this inflow  
was impacted by a net outflow of nearly £5m in working capital, as a result  
of the increases in raw material costs. This is a reversal of nearly £20m  
from the working capital flow in 2009, a considerable amount of which  
is attributable to the raw material price fluctuations.
Despite this increase in working capital, borrowings reduced to £45.6m  
(2009: £52.2m). The reduction is almost entirely due to the proceeds  
of the sale of vacated sites at Stockton and Brampton, which together 
generated £6.3m. 
Gross capital expenditure for 20 1 0 was £1 5.1m (2009: £1 3.0m),  
and we currently envisage that expenditure for 20 1 1 will be slightly  
above the 20 1 0 spend.
Major items of expenditure will include further investments in recycling 
equipment, co-extrusion lines for stretch and packaging films and  
flexographic printing presses.
In January 20 1 1, we sold the vacant site at Buckhurst Hill in Essex for a cash 
consideration of £2.5m, generating a gain of £1.95m. This sum will be used  
to further reduce our borrowings. We have now sold all vacant properties.
We have agreed new banking facilities of £70m to replace our £57.5m 
revolving credit facilities which were due to expire in November 20 1 1  
and certain short-term facilities. Of the new facilities, £1 5m will expire  
in 20 1 4 and £55m will expire early in 20 1 5. Our total facilities, including 
asset finance and overdrafts, remain in excess of £1 00m.
The terms on which we have agreed these new facilities will, on a like  
for like basis at current interest rates, see an increase of some £0.3m  
in interest costs on our borrowings in 20 1 1.
Group Pension Scheme
The IAS 1 9 deficit in the UK pension scheme decreased to £55m 
(2009: £57m).
Whilst the scheme investments performed better than the actuarial 
assumptions and the expected long-term inflation rate reduced, there was a 
further reduction in the discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme.
Due to the Government’s announcement that future statutory pension 
increases will be based on the consumer prices index, the scheme rules 
require that this basis is now applied to members’ deferred benefits. 
This change has reduced the scheme liabilities by £9.0m. Pensions in 
payment are currently expected to remain adjusted by the retail
prices index. 
We have reviewed the longevity assumptions to reflect increasing life 
expectancy and this has increased the scheme liabilities by £5.0m.
Following a period of consultation with the members, the scheme 
closed to future service accrual from 30 September 20 1 0.
Board Changes
Eric Hagman will retire as a Non-Executive Director at our AGM in May. 
Eric has been a Non-Executive Director since 2002 and has chaired the 
Audit Committee since 1 March 2006. The Board appreciates his valued 
input during this period, and in particular his efforts during the many changes 
in pension and accounting reporting standards over the last few years.
We are pleased to announce the appointment today of Ron Marsh as a 
Non-Executive Director of the Group. Ron is currently Chief Executive of  
RPC Group, Europe’s leading supplier of rigid plastic packaging products.  
The Group welcomes his experience in this sector and his knowledge  
of managing a European wide business.
Regulatory Issues
In May 20 1 0, we announced that we had been visited by officials from the 
European Commission (EC) and the Office of Fair T rading (OFT), as part 
of enquiries which they are conducting into the agricultural films market. 
We have co-operated with the requests for information from the OFT since  
their inspection. No requests have been received from the EC. While these 
enquiries are ongoing, it is not possible at this stage to ascertain whether  
or not any further action will be taken by these regulatory bodies as a  
result of these enquiries or the likely timetable for resolving these matters. 
We have extensive guidelines and controls in place designed to ensure 
compliance with competition laws across our operations. 
During 20 1 0, we incurred some £0.5m in legal costs in relation 
to these investigations. 
Group Development
20 1 0 was the year when our capacity in the UK became more closely
aligned with demand, resulting in a significant de-risking of our business.
After a lengthy run-down period, the Stockton site was closed and sold. 
Capacity had been moved, over an 1 8 month period, to other UK sites, 
principally Ardeer and Greenock. This involved the construction of two 
new extrusion halls at Ardeer and a significant effort by the management 
and workforce at both of these sites. After some initial teething issues, 
the product from both plants is now of similar or better quality than 
previously offered, and we have successfully retained the vast majority
of the customers.
In October, a few months later than anticipated, we began commissioning 
the new 5-layer wide-film line at Ardeer and have produced excellent 
product, although we have had a number of technical issues resulting  
in operational outages during the first few months. We expect this line  
to make a positive contribution in 20 1 1. 
In April, we closed the film extrusion plant at Brampton where the low 
roof height and out-dated equipment was making it difficult to remain 
competitive. Capacity was increased at the Bromborough site and 
this move has proved successful. We are currently in the process  
of completing a refurbishment of existing extrusion equipment at 
Bromborough, to improve both quality and output. 09
British Polythene Industries PLC Annual Report and Accounts 20 1 0
In January 20 1 1, we commenced production of co-extruded stretchfilm 
for agricultural applications at our A T Films plant in Canada. Subject to 
satisfactory performance, it is our intention to increase this capacity in 
the next few years.
We have successfully field-trialled machine-direction-orientated (MDO) 
film developed at our plant in Roeselare in Belgium and are investing 
further in MDO equipment at that site. We have also installed a conversion 
machine to make form-fill-and-seal (FFS) tubing at our plant in Hardenberg 
where we have a contract from a major customer to supply MDO style  
FFS for packing plastic granules. MDO films allow the customer to further 
downgauge (use thinner film) on certain specialised packaging equipment.
Any minor restructuring costs for 20 1 1 should be more than offset by 
the gain on sale of the Essex site.
Raw Material Costs
Last year, at this time, we reported that polymer prices had increased, 
but not to the level we experienced in the summer of 2008; a level that 
we thought was unsustainable. 
Events have proved us wrong, and we are now back at these levels once 
again; but only in Europe, where polyethylene polymer, our basic raw 
material, is mainly manufactured from ethylene derived from naptha 
and, in turn, from oil.
In the Middle East and North America, much of this polymer is 
manufactured from ethane gas, a much cheaper feedstock, resulting
in lower prices in these markets.
T ariff barriers, high shipping costs and transit time risk all inhibit global
trade in these polymers and there is no effective hedge available in the 
financial markets. Margins in polymer, from well-head to granule, have 
never been so high; although demand is certainly not robust in Europe. 
Despite that, there is no sign of prices coming down and we have 
seen increases from suppliers both in January and February 20 1 1.
These increased prices will slow further reduction in our borrowings
in the short-term, as working capital will increase.
We have decided to accelerate our planned investment in recycling 
equipment for both in-house and post-use polythene films. At current 
polymer prices investment in recycling should deliver very good 
returns and act as a hedge against continuing price increases. 
What must be clear to any long-term follower of our business is that 
polymer prices will always be an issue and at times a bigger issue than 
others. However, we have consistently demonstrated that we can 
trade through massive swings in polymer pricing and still deliver  
profits, albeit with squeezed margins as prices increase.
Prospects and Current T rading
As previously stated, our UK business has been significantly de-risked by  
the actions taken over the last few years. Capacity is much better aligned  
with demand and all of our plants are relatively busy. 
We are entering the main agricultural film season and currently anticipate 
that it will match or exceed performance for 20 1 0, but the final result will 
depend on the growing conditions over the next few months.
The construction sector, which was showing some modest signs of recovery 
last autumn, has had a difficult winter and we will not get a clearer picture 
of demand until winter is completely behind us. 
Margins are currently under considerable pressure due to increased raw 
material costs, but these increases are being passed on to customers 
as quickly as possible.
We have commenced the year well, with better than anticipated sales of 
agricultural stretchfilm, as customers become aware of rising raw material 
prices. The first few months will show a better outcome than last year.
Many of our smaller competitors do not have access to finance to expand 
or even sustain their operations because of the current need for increased 
working capital. Credit has become a very important issue for many of our 
suppliers as, for the most part, our industry is badly under-capitalised. 
Y our Board is confident that the actions that have been taken over the last 
few years have put our business in a better position to weather the current 
economic climate and also to be able to take advantage of any upturn in 
the economy. 20 1 1 will not be easy, but we have made a good start.
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
7 March 20 1 1
We are confident that the actions that have  
been taken over the last few years have put  
our business in a better position to weather  
the current economic climate and also to 
be able to take advantage of any upturn in 
the economy. 201 1 will not be easy, but 
we have made a good start.
Report by Directors and Business Review
