 08
The Group performed well in 2011, with results  
just ahead of market expectations and well ahead  
of 2010. This was achieved against a background  
of difficult trading conditions, with volatile raw 
material costs and periods of subdued demand  
from certain sectors.
Introduction
Overall, operating profits and earnings rose by over 
20%, year on year, and Group borrowings reduced 
significantly during the period.
The Board is recommending an increased final 
dividend and considers that the Group is well 
positioned to face a further challenging year  
in 2012.
Results
Total volumes for the year were 273,200 tonnes 
(2010: 279,500), reflecting a reduction in demand  
in the second half from industrial and construction 
customers in the UK, and continuing reduction in 
product thickness.
On sales of £508 million (2010: £478 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring, increased 
to £21.6 million (2010: £17.9 million). This increase 
can be attributed to another excellent performance 
from our European operations.
Net restructuring reflects costs of £1.3 million for the 
closure of the Swansea site, offset by a £1.9 million 
gain on the sale of a previously closed site in Essex. 
This is the second consecutive year that we have 
reported a net gain from restructuring and we  
do anticipate a further small gain when we sell  
the Swansea site.
Despite a significant reduction in overall borrowings, 
our borrowing costs increased slightly, as anticipated, 
reflecting the higher rates and fees as a result of the 
new banking facilities we reported last year. 
The calculated charge for net retirement benefit 
financing reduced to £0.5 million (2010:  
£1.9 million) due to the impact of the Pension 
Funding Partnership, which is explained later  
in this Statement.
The adjusted profit before tax (before net 
restructuring gains and net pension financing) rose 
by 21% to £19.1 million (2010: £15.8 million) and 
the adjusted diluted earnings per share were 46.92p 
(2010: 38.31p), an increase of 22.5%. 
On a statutory basis, including gains from sales  
of property, the profit before tax was £19.2 million 
(2010: £16.7 million) and diluted earnings per share 
were 50.25p (2010: 51.07p).
Chairman’s Statement 
The Group performed well in 2011, with  
results just ahead of market expectations  
and well ahead of 2010. This was achieved 
against a background of difficult trading 
conditions, with volatile raw material costs  
and periods of subdued demand from 
certain sectors.
Chairman
Cameron McLatchie 09
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Dividend
After the increase in the interim dividend to 4.0p  
per share (2010: 3.65p), the Board is recommending 
an increase in the final dividend to 8.5p per share 
(2010: second interim dividend 7.85p), making a 
total for the year of 12.5p per share (2010: 11.5p).
This final dividend is payable on 19 July to 
shareholders on the register at the close of  
business on 16 March 2012. 
Cash Flow and Borrowings
The Group generated net cash of £13.8 million  
in 2011, influenced by the following factors; an 
increase in operating profits; a reduction in raw 
material costs towards the year-end; delays in  
planned capital expenditure; the sale of the  
Essex property.
The improved cash generation, and a translation  
of the Sterling value of our significant European 
borrowings at the year-end, resulted in a reduction  
of borrowings to £31.0 million (2010: £45.6 million).  
We are unlikely to see a recurrence of all of the 
above factors in the current year.
Gross capital expenditure for 2011 was £14.6 million 
(2010: £15.1 million), and we currently expect that 
expenditure for 2012 will be around £18 million, 
reflecting the delayed expenditure for 2011, and 
further investment in new equipment. Major items 
planned to complete in 2012 include a washing 
plant for contaminated film waste at Rhymney,  
a 5-layer agricultural stretch-film line at Zele,  
a flexographic printing press at Hardenberg  
and a 3-layer co-extrusion line at Sevenoaks.
Group Pension Scheme 
The IAS 19 deficit in the UK defined benefit pension 
scheme increased from £55 million at 31 December 
2010 to £60 million at 31 December 2011. 
This was due to a further reduction in the net 
discount rate applied to the liabilities of the scheme. 
We have also further reviewed the longevity 
assumptions reflected in the IAS 19 valuation to 
reflect increasing life expectancy. In common with 
many other schemes, given the current volatility 
experienced by many investments, returns fell short 
of the level previously assumed.
The Company agreed with the trustees of the  
scheme a property backed cash payment plan  
(the Pension Funding Partnership) under which  
the Company will make inflation linked payments  
to the scheme of £1.8 million per annum for  
a period of 20 years starting in January 2012.  
This additional funding stream was recognised  
on inception as an asset of the scheme at a value  
of £19.6 million and at the year-end, the value of  
the asset was £20.7 million. The consequent 
reduction in the deficit as it appears in the Group’s 
balance sheet is offset by a matching non-
controlling interest. The scheme’s income from  
the partnership is recognised as a credit to net 
retirement benefit financing. As this is offset by  
an equal and opposite non-controlling interest  
there is no impact on reported earnings per share.
A triennial actuarial review of the fund was carried  
out at 6 April 2011 and the actuary certified a deficit  
at that date of £54 million. The Company has agreed  
a revised future funding rate of £3.2 million per 
annum effective from April 2012. These future 
payments are inflation linked and are in addition  
to the Pension Funding Partnership payments of 
£1.8 million. This agreed funding plan is designed  
to eliminate the scheme deficit over a nine year 
period. The agreed funding plan also requires 
additional one off payments if the Company 
achieves stretching profit before tax targets. 
The actuarial valuation of the pension scheme deficit 
reflects yields on government bonds at historically 
low levels together with a more prudent view of 
longevity. These yields have continued to reduce 
since 6 April 2011 and this will have increased the 
deficit further in the period to 31 December 2011. 
Board Changes
Eric Hagman retired as a Director and Chairman  
of the Audit Committee at our AGM in May 2011, 
after serving some nine years on the Board. Eric 
made a valuable contribution over a period that saw 
many changes in accounting results and regulations.
In July 2011, we appointed Ian Russell as a Director 
and Chairman of the Audit Committee. Ian is a 
member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of Scotland and has considerable current and past 
experience on a number of Boards.
In line with current recommendations, all Directors 
will now seek re-election at each Annual General 
Meeting of the Group.
The UK Corporate Governance Code
I can confirm that we do have an effective Board 
which is collectively responsible for the long-term 
success of the Company. 
I regard the current Board as extremely competent, 
that it has the necessary breadth of skills to fulfil its 
tasks, and that the Board is supplied with sufficient 
and timely information upon which to make the 
necessary deliberations and judgements.
The Board is challenging of Executive proposals,  
and the Committees of the Board do fulfil the 
independent functions that are required of them. 
£508m
On sales of £508 million (2010: £478 million), 
operating profit, before net restructuring,  
increased to £21.6 million (2010: £17.9 million).
£21.6m
Overall, operating profits and earnings rose  
by over 20%, year on year, and Group borrowings 
reduced significantly during the period. 10
Regulatory Issues 
We announced on 3 August that the Office  
of Fair Trading had closed their enquiry into the 
agricultural films market. This was followed by our 
announcement on 27 September that the European 
Commission had closed their enquiry into the same 
market sector. The Group’s legal and associated 
costs incurred during the period of the above 
investigations amounted to some £0.6 million  
and involved many hours of executive input.
The Company will continue to operate its 
longstanding policy of extensive guidelines and 
controls designed to ensure that all our operations 
comply with competition laws.
Group Development
The major positive for the year has been the 
continued success of our European business.  
Sound investment in equipment and excellent 
management of capacity has resulted in continued 
improvement in product quality and customer 
service. Current capital investments look very 
promising and further investment is planned  
to support all three operating sites.
In the UK, we reorganised our Films operations,  
with a clearer distinction between the stretch-film 
and shrink and converter film operations. This has 
resulted in greater focus on process issues and  
we have already approved investments in both 
operations. There is considerable room for  
upside in the performance of the UK stretch-film 
operations, and action has been taken to improve 
results over the next few years, as planned 
alterations in the process are effected.
On 1 November 2011, we announced our intention 
to close the site at Swansea, the oldest polythene 
operation in the Group. We had been making 
polythene bags in Swansea since the 1960s, and 
moved to the current factory in 1984. The original 
industrial customer base had been slowly eroded 
over the years, and recent investment in mailing 
products for the e-commerce market, although 
successful, had been unable to fill the gap. The 
products have been transferred to other Group sites 
and the major customers have signified that they  
are pleased with both quality and service. 
Despite the changes we made to the UK industrial 
operations by closing the Stockton site, and the 
significant improvement in performance that this 
has generated, we continue to have difficulty in 
achieving an acceptable return in this sector. 
Subdued and patchy demand, particularly from 
customers supplying the construction sector, has 
resulted in shorter and less efficient loadings on 
machines. The situation was partly helped by the 
work transferred from the Swansea site, but neither 
of our two larger industrial sites is fully loaded,  
and the short-term outlook for demand does not 
look promising.
Nonetheless, we do anticipate an improved 
performance in 2012, but this may be tempered  
by demand. In the longer term, these operations  
are well positioned to benefit from any upturn  
in demand from their traditional customer base. 
Our business is in better 
shape than ever and is 
growing in the more resilient 
sectors of the economy with 
emphasis on agriculture and 
the food chain. 
Chairman’s Statement 
( continued) 11
British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
The agricultural stretch-film line installed in Canada 
made excellent product in 2011, and this has been 
well received by customers. We are currently 
evaluating options for further investment at that site.
Our operation in China has secured a contract  
for the supply of bread bags to a large bakery  
in New Zealand. They have previously supplied 
similar product to the UK and the Middle East. 
Our retail-facing businesses in the UK, although 
fairly busy, are finding it difficult to generate 
adequate returns in a very competitive market. 
Raw Material
2011 again showed that our businesses are coping 
well with the fluctuating raw material cycle.
The price of polyethylene polymer, our basic raw 
material, rose early in the year, and we incurred 
significant additional raw material costs during the 
first half. The second half saw prices stabilise and 
then start to decline slowly. We exited the year  
with the price much lower than at the end of 2010, 
resulting in a significant boost to our cash flow  
and associated reduction in our borrowings.
This lower level of price did not last long, and both 
January and February have seen significant increases, 
taking price levels back to the levels we experienced 
last summer. We have now been advised that the 
March contract for ethylene has been settled with  
a further large increase and it is inevitable that this 
will translate into a further increase in polyethylene 
polymers for March. These increases are being 
accepted by the market at the current time, but this 
higher level of price will no doubt attract imports,  
as Europe, once again, becomes the most attractive 
market globally for polyethylene polymers.
Against a background of patchy demand and 
converters closing for summer holidays, it seems 
unlikely that these European polymer prices will  
hold up for the remainder of the year. 
Prospects and Current Trading
At this time of year, we are entering the main 
agricultural film season, and with the advantage of 
increased capacity and improved products, we are 
well placed to improve performance on the previous 
year. However, it is unlikely that we will get the same 
favourable growing conditions, especially on the 
European mainland. Last year’s extended season 
resulted in additional sales, but has had the effect  
of depleting stocks for the 2012 season. 
Demand in the industrial and construction sectors 
remains subdued, and we currently anticipate a 
further year of patchy demand but, with the actions 
taken over the last few years, we do expect some 
improvement in our performance in these sectors.
It is inevitable that margins will be affected, short 
term, by the current polymer price increases, as 
these costs are passed through to customers.
Despite the above factors, our business is in better 
shape than ever and is growing in the more resilient 
sectors of the economy with emphasis on agriculture 
and the food chain. We have demonstrated in recent 
years that we can cope with significant raw material 
volatility, and your Board currently anticipates a 
further satisfactory year in 2012. 
Cameron McLatchie
Chairman
2 March 2012
