 20
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
Summary
Group operating profit, before net restructuring 
costs or property gains, increased from £17.9 million 
to £21.6 million reflecting a very strong performance 
from our European operations. Overall volumes fell 
marginally as we saw reduced demand in the final 
quarter from the industrial and construction markets. 
Raw Material Prices
2011 was again another year of raw material price 
volatility with the European LD Platts price increasing 
every month until April when it reached a record 
high Sterling price due to a very tight supply position. 
Prices then eased as supply became more available. 
The average Sterling LD Platts price for 2011 was  
the highest ever recorded. The move in 2008 from 
quarterly to monthly pricing of ethylene, the raw 
material for polymer, will ensure continuing volatility 
in raw material prices.
The price of oil remained high throughout the year 
but the lack of demand combined with greater 
availability of Middle Eastern commodity polymer 
ensured that prices eased in the second half. 
The outlook for prices in 2012 remains uncertain  
but prices have increased in January and significantly 
in February as the ethylene price has increased and 
producers attempt to recover margin. 
Sales and Margins
Total sales increased by 6.3% to £508 million 
reflecting higher raw material prices. Sales to 
destinations outside the UK moved up to 46%  
of total sales from 43% in 2010 due to greater  
volumes in Europe. Sales to the more resilient 
sectors of the retail food chain, agriculture and 
horticulture, healthcare and waste services  
increased to 73% from 71% of total sales with 
construction unchanged at 11%.
Margins were squeezed by the continued raw 
material price increases in the first half but benefited 
from the easing of prices in the second half and 
reduced costs from the closures of Brampton and 
Stockton in early 2010. The sales mix continued to 
improve as volumes of better margin products 
increased and we exited poorer margin business. 
Exchange rates were beneficial as the continued 
weakness of Sterling helped UK export volumes and 
margins and made imports of product to the UK 
more expensive.
Energy Costs
In 2011, our UK electricity costs increased by  
£1.6 million and our UK cost of production was  
£18 per tonne more expensive than our European 
operations. European costs saw an increase in 
Belgium but a further small reduction in Holland. 
The UK remains our most expensive country for 
electricity costs.
UK energy costs increased in April 2011 as the 
benefits from participation in Climate Change 
Agreements (CCA) schemes were reduced by 
European Union rulings. In the UK, we gained 
exemption from the Carbon Reduction Commitment 
(CRC) as nearly 90% of our usage is covered by 
CCA’s. The UK government has now indicated its 
intention to continue with the CCA Schemes and is 
consulting with industry and other parties. We are 
concerned that the implementation of various green 
taxes are overburdening the UK electricity cost and 
will make UK industry uncompetitive. Several taxes 
such as the Renewable Obligation and Carbon Tax 
are charged back in the cost of electricity, while 
Chief Executive’s Review
Group operating profit, before net 
restructuring costs or property gains,  
increased from £17.9 million to £21.6 million 
reflecting a very strong performance from  
our European operations. 
Chief Executive
John Langlands British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
21
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
We continued to see  
high levels of downgauging  
as the combination of 
environmental pressures  
and high polymer prices  
make customers demand 
thinner films.
transmission and distribution costs are increasing  
to accommodate renewable generation especially 
connecting offshore and onshore wind farms in 
remote locations. While the UK government has 
promised to support energy intensive industry, it is 
unlikely to include the plastics processing industry. 
The UK government must take action to ensure that 
the UK remains competitive on energy prices.
Scrap
Scrap prices increased steadily throughout the year 
and availability remained difficult, with over 70% of 
plastic packaging waste continuing to be exported 
for reprocessing overseas. Due to the lack of 
availability of clean plastic waste we continue to 
concentrate our recycling activities on the more 
difficult and heavily contaminated waste streams, 
including agricultural film waste. We have, therefore, 
installed a second large washing plant at our site  
in Rhymney in South Wales and this will become 
operational in Q1 of 2012. This will substantially 
increase our capacity to recycle contaminated farm 
plastics and will generate additional feedstock to 
grow volumes of our Green Sack™ range of refuse 
sacks. We are also examining further investment  
at our Heanor site to provide a solution for dealing 
with paper contamination from distribution transit 
waste plastic, most of which is currently exported  
to the Far East for recycling.
Sales Volumes
Sales volumes as defined by manufactured tonnage 
dropped 2% to 273,200 tonnes, despite good 
growth of 5% from Europe, reflecting poor UK 
demand in the second half from construction and 
industrial markets and continued downgauging.
We continued to see high levels of downgauging  
as the combination of environmental pressures  
and high polymer prices make customers demand 
thinner films.
We have now calculated the square metres of film 
sold and, at 8,333 million square metres for 2011, 
this shows an increase of 2% over 2010, reflecting 
the impact of downgauging and the constant move 
to thinner films. Our average film thickness in 2011 
was 35.2 micron compared to 36.6 micron in 2010 
and 38.6 micron in 2008. This demonstrates that we 
continue to grow our business despite the reduction 
in tonnage sold.
Restructuring
In November 2011, we announced the closure of  
our Swansea facility in Wales with the transfer of 
production to our Visqueen sites at Ardeer and 
Greenock. The site has seen the long term decline  
of its industrial business and, while we introduced 
the manufacture of despatch sacks for mail order 
and on-line retailers, volumes were not sufficient to 
cover the high site overheads. All business and plant 
were successfully transferred in December 2011 and 
January 2012 and the site stopped manufacture at 
the end of January 2012.
Elsewhere, we continued to take all necessary steps 
to reduce our cost base.
Capital Expenditure
Total capital expenditure at nearly £15 million was 
greater than depreciation but lower than planned  
as some projects ran behind schedule. The major 
items were expenditure on a further stretchline 
at Zele to increase capacity to meet growth in our 
advanced silage products and a washing plant at 
Rhymney to enable us to recycle more contaminated 
agricultural waste. Both these projects will become 
operational in the first half of 2012.
Other major items of expenditure in 2011 included 
the completion of upgrading extrusion equipment  
at Bromborough, a new extrusion line at Roeselare, 
a deposit on a printing press at Hardenberg and  
a recycling unit at Ardeer. 
Planned expenditure in 2012 includes completion  
of the washing plant at Rhymney in the UK, the 
stretchline at Zele in Belgium and the installation  
of the printing press at Hardenberg in Holland. 
Notwithstanding the uncertain economic climate, 
we will continue to invest in the business to 
improve our return on capital. 
Strategy
Our strategy is set out on page 12. 
During 2011, we have improved our performance  
in relation to each of our key financial objectives :
Operating Profits Up 21% to £21.6m
Earnings Per Share  
before net restructuring  Up 22% to 46.92p
Return on  
Capital Employed Up from 12.9% to 15.5%
Net Borrowings Down £14.6m to £31.0m
Our strategy has been supported by:
In the Agricultural markets:
•	Installing a stretchfilm line for silage stretchwrap 
in Canada to supply the North American silage 
stretch market.
•	Approving and beginning the installation of a large 
stretchwrap line at Zele in Belgium to meet the 
growing demand for our advanced silage products. 
In Recycling:
•	Authorising and beginning the installation of  
a washing plant at Rhymney in the UK to recycle 
contaminated agricultural waste and provide  
more feedstock to develop our range of  
Green Sack™ refuse sacks.
On the rationalisation of UK films  
and UK industrial sectors:
•	Announcing the closure of our small site at 
Swansea which supplied the industrial market.  22
Key Relationships
The Group does not have any customers that 
amount to more than 3% of the Group turnover.
The Group purchases its main raw materials from a 
number of key suppliers including Dow, ExxonMobil, 
Sabic, Total, Lyondell Basell and Polimeri Europa and 
has supply arrangements in place. Most of these 
suppliers have a number of plants in Europe, North 
America and the Middle East and alternative sources 
are available, except for some very specialised grades. 
OPERATING REVIEW
EUROPE
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit 13.4 9.2
 
Tonnes Sold 67,300 64,000
Our European business comprises two 
manufacturing sites in Belgium, one manufacturing 
site in the Netherlands and a sales operation in 
France. The business specialises in the manufacture 
and sale of high quality printed film for the food 
industry, form fill and seal films (FFS) and heavy duty 
sacks, including valve bags and Waviblok for the 
chemical, construction, horticulture and fertiliser 
industries, pallet protection films including stretch 
hoods, insulation film, general industrial films and 
silage and packaging stretchwrap. Main markets  
are Belgium, the Netherlands, North of France and 
Germany, except for silage stretch which is sold 
throughout mainland Europe.
The operating profits increased from £9.2 million  
to £13.4 million due to a combination of higher  
sales volumes, improvement in the sales mix,  
good control over costs and improved production 
efficiencies and scrap rates. The benefits of our 
continued investment in new equipment and 
product development contributed significantly  
to the improvement in performance.
Sales volumes increased by 5% as we experienced 
strong demand in agricultural products and printed 
film for the food industry and some growth in 
industrial products. 
Total volumes of silage wrap were well ahead of 
2010 as the favourable weather conditions during 
the mild autumn encouraged farmers to continue 
making silage late in the season. Sales of our new 
products SilotitePro
®
 and Baletite
®
 are continuing to 
grow with sales of SilotitePro
®
 more than doubling 
in 2011. Baletite
®
 is a replacement for traditional 
round bale netting and SilotitePro
®
 is a new 
generation of silage film with improved economical 
and environmental properties and both will reinforce 
our market leading position in the silage wrap 
business. A further 5 layer co-extrusion line is being 
installed at Zele to meet our growing demand for 
these advanced stretchwrap products.
Demand for pallet protection film, insulation film 
and general purpose film remained subdued with 
lack of volume putting pressure on margins. Sales  
of stretchhoods continued to grow but competitive 
pricing kept margins under pressure. Sales of 
Bontite
®
, our high quality industrial stretch product, 
were strong and increased during the year.
Volume sales of printed film for the food industry 
including film for deep frozen vegetables and frozen 
chips were ahead of 2010 with strong demand in 
the second half due to a good harvest. Total sales  
in square metres were over 10% ahead of 2010 
reflecting strong demand from our customer base. 
Industrial volumes were in line with 2010 with  
some good growth in sales of FFS, although sales  
to the petrochemical sector fell slightly as demand 
reduced in the second half. Volumes of bags 
reduced as customers continued to move to FFS. 
Margins saw some recovery despite the raw material  
price increases.
Production volumes were well ahead of 2010 and 
scrap rates continued to improve. 
At Roeselare, we have invested in pre-stretch 
equipment to enable us to produce a range of 
thinner products. We have developed pre-stretched 
products for both the polymer and insulation 
markets and would expect volumes of these higher 
added value products to grow over the next  
few years. 
We have installed a three layer coextrusion line  
at Roeselare to further focus on better added  
value products and are installing a printing press  
and extrusion equipment at Hardenberg to  
increase capacity. 
Our European business remains well placed to 
deliver further growth with clear strategic plans  
for each site. Zele in Belgium will continue to focus 
on stretch products, particularly silage, and printed 
food film. Hardenberg in Holland is focused on 
industrial products and is a leading supplier of FFS  
to the petrochemical and other industries. Roeselare 
in Belgium will focus on a reduced number of 
products and developing a range of pre-stretched 
thinner products.
While the exceptional 2011 performance will  
be difficult to repeat, we expect our continued 
investment in new capacity, combined with the 
development of new products, will enable the 
business to deliver a consistent stream of  
operating profits. 
Chief Executive’s Review  
( continued) British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
23
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
UK & IRELAND
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit   7.4 7.9
 
Tonnes Sold 193,900 203,900
Our UK and Ireland business consisted of 14 UK 
manufacturing sites and 4 sales/service offices in the 
UK and Ireland. It also includes our plant in China as 
most of its production is currently sold in the UK.
Operating profits fell as electricity costs increased  
by £1.6 million. Margins were also squeezed by 
rising raw material costs particularly in the consumer 
and silage sectors, but continued benefits arising 
from our restructuring programme reduced 
operating costs and this offset some of the impact 
of rising raw material prices and electricity costs.
Volumes fell to 194,000 tonnes with the main 
reductions in our construction and industrial markets. 
Total sales to the more resilient sectors accounted for 
75% of sales compared to 72% in 2010.
Total UK costs fell by £1.5 million as costs were 
reduced by the closures of Brampton and Stockton 
in early 2010.
Our UK plain film products produced at 
Bromborough and Sevenoaks include a range of 
film on the reel for a variety of different markets and 
include products such as plain shrinkfilm, printed 
shrinkfilm, produce films, bread films, lamination 
films, liquid packaging films and surface protection 
films. Incorporating highly respected brand names 
such as Novatek
®
 and Surpreme
®
, the range of 
products provides secure cost effective transit  
and primary packaging for the most  
demanding applications.
Sales of collation shrinkwrap, which are mainly  
to the food and drink industries, were broadly  
in line with 2010 despite more difficult markets  
for these industries. Sales to the converter sector  
were marginally below 2010 due to volume losses  
from customers closing plants and a result of our 
continued efforts to work with customers to  
reduce the weight of their packaging through 
downgauging. Volumes were stronger in the first 
half but somewhat weaker in the second half due  
to lower demand. Our sites at Bromborough and 
Sevenoaks both lowered scrap rates. 
At Bromborough, the upgrade of extrusion lines  
to increase production and enable the production  
of thinner films was completed. A co-extrusion  
line to increase capacity has been authorised for 
Sevenoaks to enable further coex growth.
Our three stretchwrap plants in the UK at Leominster, 
Bridgwater and Widnes produce a range of industrial 
stretchwrap products including blown and cast 
machine and hand rolls as well as the newer 
pre-stretch products and silage stretchwrap.
Management of these sites has been assumed by the 
European Managing Director and this will enable the 
consolidation of our leading branded silage products 
and deliver efficiencies in product development and 
utilisation of our stretchfilm assets.
Total sales of industrial stretchwrap were 4% down 
on 2010, as we continued to see very competitive 
pricing in cast machine stretchwrap. Our sales of 
pre-stretch WrapsmartUltra
®
 product continued  
to grow and were significantly ahead of 2010. 
Additional conversion machines have been ordered 
for installation in 2012. The new WrapsmartUltra
®
 
hand roll product is 7 micron compared to our 
traditional hand roll at 12 to 17 micron and, 
therefore, uses nearly half the material. The new 
hand rolls offer the same strength and high 
performance levels as standard stretchfilm products, 
despite their ultra light weight and thinner gauge. 
Subdued demand especially in the second half 
resulted in lower volumes of cast machine reels  
as we attempted to maintain margins in a very 
competitive market. The Bridgwater site is now fully 
focused on cast stretchwrap and operates as a low 
cost, high volume, high performance manufacturer 
of cast industrial stretchwrap. Our Widnes plant 
continues to produce a range of blown hand rolls 
for the packaging industry but poor demand in the 
second half saw volumes reduce over 2010.
Sales of silage stretch were broadly in line with  
2010 with increased sales to Scandinavia but lower 
volumes in the UK, Ireland and North America. In the 
UK, we have positioned ourselves as suppliers to the 
leading co-operatives and agricultural merchants 
who wish to sell our well marketed, branded, high 
quality silage film. As the Irish market remains the 
lowest priced in Europe, we focus on a restricted 
range of customers. AT Films in Canada installed its 
own silage line in North America and now supplies 
that market. We grew volumes into Scandinavia of 
our next generation silage film, SilotitePro
®
, which 
offers farmers significant cost savings when making 
baled silage. Increasing raw material prices kept 
pressure on margins.
Costs at all sites were well controlled but 
maintenance, mainly at Leominster, was high as  
we had to deal with a large number of machinery 
breakdowns which also reduced production outputs 
and increased scrap levels. We have authorised some 
capital expenditure to upgrade these lines. With the 
transfer of knowledge from Zele, the use of their 
standard blends and improvements to the quality 
system, we should see improvements in future years.
46%
73%
Sales to destinations outside the UK moved 
up to 46% of total sales from 43% in 2010 
due to greater volumes in Europe. 
Sales to the more resilient sections of agriculture 
and horticulture, retail food chain, healthcare and 
waste services represent 73% of Group turnover. 24
Chief Executive’s Review  
( continued)
Total volumes in our wide film activities fell below 
2010 as we struggled with the installation of our 
new wide line at Ardeer due to its scale and 
complexity. This impacted on scrap rates, production 
outputs, sales volumes and service levels.
Volumes of silage sheet were down on 2010 as 
delays to the installation of our new wide line meant 
we were unable to meet customer demand as 
opening stocks were minimal and the silage season 
started early. This line is now running well and we 
have built stock at the end of 2011 for supply into 
the 2012 season and will therefore be in a position 
to offer normal good levels of service.
Sales of horticultural films were similarly down on 
2010 as we were unable to offer normal service 
levels. The purchase of an in-house re-reeling 
winding machine has been authorised to improve 
service levels in the supply of small reels. 
We are the leading recycler of polythene films  
in the UK with an annual recycling capacity of  
nearly 70,000 tonnes. We recycle scrap from  
our own operations, used products taken back  
from customers and scrap purchased in the open  
market. We are also able to recycle the more  
heavily contaminated scrap, including agricultural 
films. Recycled material is used in the manufacture 
of construction films, including damp proof  
course, refuse sacks, rigid products and a range 
of other products.
Our construction activities trade under the Visqueen 
Building Products brand and supply construction 
films including temporary protective sheeting,  
damp proof membrane, damp proof course and a 
number of specialist products to the major builders’ 
merchants in the UK. Following some recovery in 
2010, sales volumes were down slightly as volume 
was restricted due to the availability of good scrap 
feedstock. The outlook for the construction industry 
remains uncertain and, given weak demand and 
excess capacity, selling prices and margins will 
remain under pressure. 
Our focus for growth remains with the specification 
products sector including gas barrier systems and we 
gained further market share against a flat building 
sector to increase sales by 18% in 2011. 
Sales volumes of refuse sacks were in line with  
2010 as growth in the retail and janitorial sectors  
of the Green Sack™ range offset a reduction in  
the traditional local authority sector through a 
considerable level of downgauging. Sales of the 
Green Sack™, a 100% recycled product including 
UK farm waste, have continued to grow with a major 
UK retailer stocking the range. Opportunities exist  
to target other retailers in both the UK and Europe. 
Increasing raw material and scrap prices together 
with a number of retendering exercises saw intense 
pressure on margins.
The public sector remains an area of risk as they  
look for savings to meet their reduced expenditure 
targets. We supply both the local authority market 
for domestic refuse sack and the NHS with aprons 
and clinical waste sacks and we are now offering 
downgauged and lower cost products to  
these markets.
Recycling remained a challenge as a result of 
continued lack of availability of scrap and volumes 
fell slightly in the year. However, our washing  
plant at Dumfries, which recycles contaminated 
agricultural waste, achieved its highest ever output.
With sourcing scrap becoming more difficult, 
combined with the need for more pellet to support 
our growth in the Green Sack™ range, towards the 
end of the year, we installed a new washing plant at 
Rhymney to recycle contaminated agricultural waste. 
Commissioning trials are taking place and we hope 
to be in full production this March.
Scrap and repro prices increased steadily throughout 
the year putting pressure on margins. Since 
November, prices have remained steady and, as  
is normal after Christmas, we have seen good 
availability of scrap. 
Costs at our sites at Heanor, Stroud, Rhymney and 
Dumfries remained under control and we transferred 
all freight and distribution from Rhymney to Heanor 
during the second half.
Sales of converted products, including printed  
film and bags, comprise sales from our print and 
conversion plants and serve a wide range of markets 
from construction to industrial to consumer.
Our industrial activities improved over 2010 as the 
Ardeer site settled down following the disruption  
of 2010 on the transfer of various equipment and 
business from Stockton. A new recycling unit was 
installed towards the end of the year which will 
increase capacity to meet demand from the 
enlarged site and improve the quality of pellet.
Total sales volume of industrial packaging to the 
construction and industrial markets fell by 10% as 
we saw poor demand in the second half particularly 
from the construction and peat markets with 
volumes also down in the fertiliser and animal feed 
sectors. Sales to the horticultural industry were down 
as demand fell away after April and confidence 
within the industry for 2012 remains low. 
Our backseam conversion line with in-line print 
continues to increase volumes to the construction 
sector and we are now supplying a number of 
customers as the cement industry moves certain 
products from paper to polythene packaging.
We are the leading  
recycler of polythene films  
in the UK with an annual 
recycling capacity of  
nearly 70,000 tonnes.  British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
25
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Fixed costs fell as we gained the final benefit from 
the closure of Stockton and continued to reduce 
manning levels in response to weaker demand.
Flint continues to focus on higher added value 
business for the pharmaceutical and food sectors 
and improved its performance in 2011. 
Our small trading operation at Norwich continues  
to generate acceptable returns. 
Our site at Swansea focused on the manufacture and 
supply of mailing bags for mail order and on-line 
retailers and this was supported by investment in 
extrusion, print and conversion. While good levels of 
new business were achieved, they were not sufficient 
to cover the overheads of the site and we announced 
in November that the site would be closed. The plant 
and business have been transferred to our sites at 
Ardeer and Greenock and all plant is now up and 
running and producing good product.
Our Consumer plant at Worcester is involved in 
printing and converting plain film into packaging  
for the fresh produce, bread and other food 
markets. The plant now has two ten colour printing 
presses, seven eight colour printing presses and  
a laminator, making it one of the largest and most 
modern facilities in Europe.
Sales volumes were broadly similar to 2010 but 
margin pressure remained intense and significant 
increases in raw material prices were difficult to 
recover. The supermarkets and their suppliers 
continued to attempt to reduce costs despite the 
increasing raw material cost and margins were 
reduced. Improved efficiencies and good control  
over costs helped offset some of the margin impact. 
Our plant in China was successful in winning a  
bread bag contract in Australasia and there are  
a number of good opportunities for further growth 
in these markets. 
Our pre-press and plate making business provides 
artwork, origination and printing plates to Group 
businesses and to external customers. Overall sales 
were down on 2010, with lower demand from both 
internal and external customers, and the business 
recorded a small loss. Action has been taken to 
reduce the cost base.
Total capital expenditure on the UK was over £7 
million with nearly £3 million spent at Rhymney on 
the installation of a new washing plant to increase 
recycling of contaminated agricultural waste. Other 
expenditure included upgrading extrusion equipment 
at Bromborough and a recycling unit at Ardeer.
Major capital expenditure in 2012 will include the 
completion of the washing plant at Rhymney and  
a new extrusion line at Sevenoaks.
The UK business should see benefits in 2012 from 
the closure of Swansea and normal running of our 
new wide line at Ardeer. The business seems well 
placed to meet the challenges of 2012.
NORTH AMERICA
 20 11 20 1 0 
 £m £m
Operating Profit 0.8 0.8
 
Tonnes Sold 12,020 11,650
Our North American business comprises AT Films Inc. 
based at Edmonton, Alberta in Canada. The main 
plant manufactures polythene film for the North 
American horticultural and agricultural markets  
and also has a conversion facility nearby at Westlock 
which folds and packs bags used for the storage of 
silage and grain.
Total sales volumes were just ahead of the previous 
year as we started to supply silage stretchwrap for 
the North American market and saw horticultural 
sales increase by 20% as we recovered market share 
and entered some new markets. 
This offset a reduction in our traditional agricultural 
products which fell 9% due to some adverse 
weather patterns. While sales of silage sheet were 
broadly in line with 2010 as our new products 
including vapour resistant sheeting and wide width 
films continued to gain momentum, volumes of 
silage and grain bags were down on 2010. 
Margins suffered as the very competitive  
market made it difficult to recover the polymer  
price increases.
The small increase in volumes combined with  
good control over costs and benefits from exchange 
rates enabled the business to report maintained 
Sterling profits.
A co-extrusion line for the manufacture of silage 
stretchwrap became operational in the first quarter 
of 2011 and enabled us to supply the North 
American silage wrap market. All volume produced 
in season was sold and the product quality was well 
received by the market. Full utilisation of this capacity 
will enable us to grow volumes in 2012 and improve 
our performance.
The strategy for North America is to increase 
volumes by introducing new products and fill 
available capacity. More normal weather conditions 
should see a recovery in our traditional agricultural 
products and, combined with more sales of silage 
stretchwrap, should result in an improved 
performance in 2012. 26
Customers 
& Markets
BPI serves more than 
5,000 customers in over 
60 countries worldwide. 
In turn our customers supply a  
host of industry sectors across  
five continents where our films  
can be found protecting, promoting 
and preserving in many technical 
applications. One of our core 
strengths is the ability to understand 
and work with customers in a  
variety of markets and regions. 
More than 70% of Group sales are into the  
more resilient sectors of agriculture, retail  
food chain, healthcare and waste services.  
BPI is committed to further developing it’s 
positions in these key markets. 
Non UK sales now account for 46% of  
Group turnover, this proportion has been 
increasing and is targeted to rise further. 
BPI has a diverse customer base who in 
turn serve many different markets across 
the world. British Polythene Industries PLC 
Annual Report and Accounts 2011
27
Overview
Review of the Year
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Report by Directors and Business Review
Widely used across Europe by customers  
supplying global markets our frozen foods films  
excel under frozen storage and display conditions.  
The impressive strength, processing speeds and 
presentation properties of our freezer films has  
lead to their extensive use in both domestic  
and catering pack formats.
“Our position as the chosen packaging partner  
of some of Europe’s best known frozen food 
manufacturers is a direct result of our ability  
to provide cost-effective solutions that exceed 
expectations. Our sustained investment into  
both R&D and new production technology  
enables us to continually enhance our product 
attributes and customer service levels.”
Case Study: Frozen Foods Peter Brock, Internal Sales Correspondent, Zele
