 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 04
It gives me great pleasure to report on a 
second outstanding year for Abcam as a 
public company. Building on the growth 
we enjoyed in 2006, we have produced 
another excellent set of results whilst 
making some important investments in  
the year, which will serve as a springboard 
to even greater success in the future.
First of all, the construction of our HTP 
facility in Cambridge UK has been 
completed on schedule and operations 
have already started. The facility will help 
Abcam to take advantage of new business 
opportunities, such as a better Pharma/
Biotech offering and potentially diagnostics.
In addition to the HTP facility, we officially 
opened our new office in Japan in 
December 2006. Located in a prominent 
business district of Tokyo, the office gives 
us a strong foothold in one of the most 
rapidly growing antibody markets in the 
world. Having a local presence will greatly 
improve the quality of the support we can 
provide to Abcam customers in this region. 
With this goal in mind we have also 
enhanced the Japanese version of our 
website. Whilst these are early days for 
the Japanese business, we are 
encouraged by its performance during  
its first few months.
Although we plan to enlarge our portfolio  
of antibodies produced in-house, we 
continue to build relationships with institutes, 
academic laboratories and primary 
manufacturers that supply products to be 
sold under the Abcam brand. Over the last 
financial year we have also acquired the 
exclusive rights to distribute new antibody 
product lines with three companies. In 
August 2006 we announced an exclusive 
deal with Triple Point Biologics Inc. for a 
range of 350 antibodies with the delivery of 
another 360 antibodies over the next three 
years. We followed that by signing similar 
agreements with Assay BioTechnology 
Company Inc., a US firm that tests, 
validates and markets research antibodies, 
and with Diaclone, which is part of the 
Tepnel Group and develops antibodies and 
kits in the UK. ABT have already made 500 
products available to Abcam on exclusive 
terms and are committed to adding a further 
3,000 to our portfolio over the next five 
years; Diaclone has made 341 products 
available with exclusive distribution rights  
in the Americas and Japan.
Since our last annual report we have 
continued to attract top-quality staff. We 
now employ 27 PhDs out of 131 full-time 
employees and are currently in the midst  
of a recruitment drive as we increase 
production at the HTP facility. Last July  
we announced the appointment of two new 
Non-Executive Directors: Tim Dye and 
Mark Webster. Both have proven to be 
extremely valuable additions to the Board.
After almost eight years as Finance 
Director, a period including Abcam’s 
successful IPO in 2005, Eddie Powell has 
indicated his desire to leave the Company 
to allow him to take a career break and 
subsequently to be available for consulting 
positions. We are already well under way 
in appointing Eddie’s successor. Eddie  
will be stepping down from the Board on 
20 November 2007, following which we 
will retain his services as an adviser.  
We owe him a debt of gratitude for his 
valuable contribution to building the 
Company and wish him well for the future.
Abcam is becoming increasingly visible  
on the world stage as an important 
contributor to the field of antibodies and 
related medical disciplines. Our market 
reach makes us attractive to suppliers, 
and our customer base now extends 
Chairman’s Review
Abcam is becoming increasingly visible on 
the world stage as an important contributor 
to the field of antibodies and related medical 
disciplines. Our market reach makes us 
attractive to suppliers, and our customer 
base now extends across almost 60 countries, 
thanks largely to our reputation for reliability 
and trust in the marketplace. Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 05 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc
across almost 60 countries, thanks largely 
to our reputation for reliability and trust in 
the marketplace. A recent internally 
commissioned independent report named 
Abcam as one of the top five research 
antibody companies in the world, and in 
some of our Core Focus Areas (CFAs), 
such as chromatin research, we believe 
we are the market leader.
With the landmarks we have reached this 
year, and the initiatives we have unveiled, 
Abcam has laid solid foundations for 
expansion in the future. We remain firmly 
committed to our mission to build the 
largest online catalogue of the best 
antibodies in the world.
Once again I am grateful to all of our staff 
for their efforts during the year and take  
the opportunity to thank our customers, 
suppliers and shareholders for their 
continued support.
Dividends
The Directors’ policy since the IPO in 
November 2005 has been to distribute 
25% of earnings as dividends. However,  
in view of the continuing strong cashflow 
and growing success of the Group, the 
Directors have decided to increase the 
distribution to 33% of earnings. An interim 
dividend of 0.8p per share was paid in 
April 2007 and the Directors are therefore 
recommending a final dividend of 3.19p 
per share, making a total for the year of 
3.99p. Subject to shareholder approval at 
the annual general meeting in November, 
this dividend will be paid on 7 December 
2007 to shareholders on the register on 
9 November 2007.
Outlook
We are entering the current year with an 
exciting platform for growth and current 
trading in the first few months of the year 
has been strong. The Board is confident 
of the outlook for 2008.
David Cleevely
Chairman
28 September 2007
June 2007
December 2006
July 2006 Ongoing
06/0 7 a year in review
Over 33,000 products in 
our catalogue
The number of products available in our 
catalogue hit 33,900, including more than 
25,000 antibodies and 8,000 related 
products (such as proteins, peptides and 
kits). New products from Abcam’s own 
development facilities and external 
suppliers continue to be added on a daily 
basis to the catalogue, which has grown  
at a compounded annual rate of 54% since 
its inception in 2002.
New Japanese office
Abcam opened its second overseas office 
in Tokyo, Japan. The move represents a 
major push to increase sales in East Asia. 
It will help Abcam to improve the quality  
of the technical support it offers customers 
in the region and speed the delivery of 
Abcam products to Far East markets.
New Cambridge 
manufacturing facilities
Abcam launched a major project to expand 
its laboratory and production capabilities. 
A new development facility in Cambridge, 
UK, will allow Abcam to significantly boost 
the production of high-margin antibodies 
over the next six years.
Core Focus Area initiative
Following an in-depth study of the market 
Abcam has chosen seven Core Focus 
Areas (CFAs), each of which represents  
a research area with high market demand. 
We have vertically integrated our business 
development, manufacturing, marketing, 
sales and technical support teams around 
these areas and expect to add a further 
three CFAs by June 2008.
