 As we mark our 25th anniversary, Sky is performing strongly 
and our potential for future growth is as exciting as it has  
ever been. We had a very good year in 2014 with more people 
choosing Sky and taking more of our products. The business  
is delivering strong financial results and we enter the new year 
with good momentum.
Our strategy
Annual Report 2014
07 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
We operate in an attractive and dynamic marketplace that is opening up 
a bigger and broader opportunity, one that we are uniquely positioned 
to take advantage of. In today’s connected world, home entertainment 
and communications are central to people’s lives and they are willing  
to commit an increasing proportion of their household spend on these 
services. In this environment, our strategy is to deliver market-leading 
content, innovation and customer service, while operating as a 
responsible business and making a positive impact on society.  
We believe this approach will allow us to continue to grow and  
create value for shareholders.
Our growth opportunities
Sky’s willingness to embrace that change and innovate is opening  
up exciting new opportunities and giving us more ways to grow.  
We see an expanding opportunity to serve the market broadly  
through multiple channels and, for the first time, to provide  
‘Sky for Everyone’, based on multiple platforms and services.
This opportunity for growth lies in three areas.
First and foremost, we see an opportunity to sell more products  
to more customers by meeting the significant demand that exists  
for our core TV and home communications products.
Notwithstanding the excellent progress that we have made over the 
last 25 years, 13 million households in Britain and Ireland have yet to 
pay for TV, and over 5 million of our customers have yet to switch their 
home communications service to Sky. Our successful transition to  
a multi-product strategy has enabled us to sell more products to  
more customers and with an average of three paid-for products  
per customer at the end of June 2014, there remains plenty more 
growth to go for. Our performance in the last year demonstrates  
that consumers’ appetite to take more from Sky remains as strong  
as ever and this gives us an important platform from which to build.
Second, we see significant additional potential for growth in new 
segments of the market that we are only just starting to address.  
NOW TV, our over-the-top streaming service, gives us the chance to 
unlock new pockets of demand in an emerging pay light sector and 
extend our reach in Freeview homes – many of whom are looking for  
an easy and flexible way to enjoy a better TV experience. Our NOW TV 
Box offers a low-cost, low-commitment way for these households to 
enjoy Sky’s content with a choice of movies, sport and entertainment 
passes. In addition, we continue to roll out NOW TV to more connected 
devices, taking advantage of the growth in video consumption over 
smartphones, tablets and games consoles.
Alongside this, we also have an opportunity to extend the Sky brand 
into the transactional market by accelerating the move from physical 
DVDs to digital. This is a market worth an estimated £1.6 billion a  
year in the UK and while we have been growing our share of the  
rental part of this market well with Sky Store, the launch this spring  
of our Buy & Keep service lets us tap into the much larger purchase 
segment of the market. We see strong potential for growth given  
our long-standing relationships with the major Studios and the 
strength of the Sky brand in home entertainment.
Jeremy Darroch
Chief Executive Our strategy
(continued)
Annual Report 2014
08 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
Third, we are opening up new growth opportunities in our portfolio of 
businesses in adjacent sectors. These are businesses where Sky often 
has a small share today in what are large and valuable addressable 
markets. This includes Sky Bet, our betting and gaming business, which 
has delivered sustained double-digit growth in revenue and profit and 
yet still only has 6% of a £3 billion market. We see another significant 
opportunity in targeted advertising with the launch this year of Sky 
AdSmart. Combining the power, scale and immediacy of TV advertising 
with the segmentation and targeting of direct mail and regional 
advertising, Sky AdSmart opens up a £6 billion market that we have 
been unable to reach until now.
Taken together these represent a broad opportunity for growth 
through multiple services and routes to market. Each of these areas  
is additive and highly complementary; together, they offer a route  
to building a bigger and more profitable business. 
Our strengths
Sky’s success in exploiting the growth opportunity that lies ahead 
rests on our unique combination of strengths in three areas: content, 
innovation and customers. These are areas in which Sky has developed 
significant capabilities which are hard to replicate. 
In content, we have made huge strides in recent years to increase  
the range and quality of the programmes we put on screen, right 
across our channel portfolio. We have developed our suite of 
entertainment channels, strengthened our relationships with the 
major movie studios and signed new rights deals in sport to expand 
our offering. In particular, this year we have increased our investment 
in original British programming with a focus on comedy and drama.  
This is because we know that our ability to offer the best and broadest 
range of content for the whole household is a fundamental advantage 
in an environment where customers have more choices than ever before.
Sky’s ability to innovate across multiple technologies allows us to build 
on the strength of our content and take our business into new areas. 
Our focus in the last year has been accelerating the take-up and usage 
of new connected TV services. Connecting customers’ Sky
+
HD boxes 
to broadband opens up a whole range of new on demand services 
which allow customers to choose how, when and where they watch 
that content. Services like NOW TV and Sky Store delivered over the 
internet enable us to extend our business into new areas, reaching 
customers that may not otherwise have taken Sky and opening up new 
revenue opportunities. We have also grown our home communications 
business to become Britain’s second-biggest broadband provider. 
Our strengths in content and innovation are only relevant because 
they matter to customers. And it is because we combine them with  
a deep understanding of customer needs that we are able to bring 
together home entertainment and communications better than 
anyone else.
We have established direct, long-term relationships with 11.5 million 
households across Britain and Ireland. These relationships mean  
we know what our customers want and enable us to stay focused  
on providing the services that best meet their needs. The strength  
of our brand and the capability that we have developed means we  
can bring products to market swiftly and at scale. And everything we 
do is supported by best-in-class customer service. As the connected 
home becomes more established and consumers are faced with  
an increasing array of choices, service delivery has become a more 
important differentiator than ever before. Sky’s expertise is a source 
of competitive advantage.
The acquisition of Sky Italia and a 57.4% stake in Sky Deutschland  
will give us a platform to take the strengths we have developed in the 
UK and Ireland and apply them across a broader field of opportunity. 
The enlarged business will have significantly expanded headroom for 
growth, bringing together best-in-class capabilities and experience 
from all three businesses to serve customers better, accelerate 
innovation and grow faster.
How we do business
Underpinning our strengths in content, innovation and customers  
is our desire to build a business that is durable for the long term.  
To achieve sustainable success, we know that how we do business  
is as important as what we do. This is at the heart of our Believe in 
Better ethos, a commitment to constant renewal and improvement  
in everything we do.
Investment in our people is fundamental to the creation of a durable 
business. At Sky, we support training and development for all of our 
people and strive to create a culture where they can do their best  
work and fulfil their potential.
We also understand that we need to be willing to look beyond the 
delivery of short-term results to consider the impact that we have on 
the wider communities in which we live and work. We call this seeing 
the bigger picture.
As a successful company, we make a significant and growing economic 
and social contribution to Britain and Ireland, supporting thousands  
of jobs and investing billions in the creative industries and sport.  
We are committed to behaving responsibly in all that we do and  
our high ethical, social and environmental standards underpin the 
decisions that we take every day.
But we also know that we have the opportunity to use our position  
as a leading media and communications company to reach beyond our 
business to make a positive impact on society. This is why we launched 
Sky Academy in November 2013, a unique set of initiatives that uses 
the power of TV, creativity and sport to inspire young people and help 
them reach their potential. Bringing together established programmes 
with a series of initiatives where we’re just getting going, we feel very 
excited about how Sky Academy will be able to make a difference to 
young people’s lives. 
Sky Arts Portrait Artist of the Year, presented by Joan Bakewell and Frank Skinner. Annual Report 2014
09 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information
Strategic report – Chief Executive’s statement
Our performance
The success of our strategy is reflected in the strong performance of 
the business over the past year. Against a challenging economic and 
competitive backdrop, we added 23% more products than the prior 
year and achieved the highest rate of customer growth for three  
years (excluding the acquired O2 customers and product base).
Strong demand across the board translated to a 7% increase in 
revenue (excluding ESPN). Combined with a continued focus on 
operating efficiency, this meant we ended a year of investment  
with earnings per share flat year on year. This is an excellent result  
in a period where we absorbed a one-off step up in Premier League 
costs and invested to accelerate take-up of new connected services, 
and it reflects the strength of the underlying business.
In light of this performance, the Board has proposed a dividend  
of 32.0 pence, an increase of 7% on the prior year and the tenth 
consecutive year of growth.
We continued to reap the benefits of our broadly-based approach  
to growth as more people chose to come to Sky and take more of our 
products. We added a total of 3.1 million new paid-for subscription 
products over the 12 months to take our total base of subscription 
products past 34 million. At the same time, we added 342,000 new 
customers to reach 11.5 million, reflecting a continuing appetite to 
switch services from other providers to Sky. At the end of the year,  
37% of our customers took all three of TV, broadband and telephony 
from Sky, extending our lead as Britain’s favourite triple-play provider.
Meanwhile, our investment to accelerate take-up and usage of our 
connected TV service delivered excellent results, increasing the value 
we offer to customers and opening up new sources of revenue.  
Over the year, the total number of connected Sky
+
HD boxes more  
than doubled to 5.7 million, equivalent to 57,000 new households  
being connected every week. This means that more than 50% of TV 
customers were connected at the end of June, making Sky Britain’s 
most popular connected TV platform.
This explosive growth has transformed the viewing experience.  
On Demand downloads grew threefold over the year as customers 
responded to greater flexibility and choice. Our expanded Box Sets 
service proved particularly popular with viewing to top titles like  
24 and Game of Thrones up fourfold in Q4. 
At the same time, the number of households registered for Sky Go, our 
mobile TV service, grew 19% to 5.5 million, helping push viewing figures 
to new highs. We saw particularly strong growth in entertainment,  
with entertainment and movies accounting for two-thirds of all viewing 
to Sky Go at the end of the year. 
Through all this, we continued to extend our lead in customer service. 
Initiatives like bringing our entire engineer workforce in-house and the 
roll-out of our ‘One Service’ operating model, where we join up different 
elements of the service experience more effectively, has helped deliver 
record levels of customer satisfaction. As a result, Sky again earned  
the top ranking from Ofcom for quality of service by a provider of TV, 
broadband and home phone services. 
Underpinning everything we achieved operationally was our continued 
work to reach beyond our business and make a positive impact on the 
wider community. We launched Sky Academy in November and were 
delighted that over 105,000 young people took part in a Sky Academy 
initiative during the year.
Of course, none of what we do would be possible without the dedication 
and hard work of our people. They are vital to our success and I would 
like to thank each and every one of them for their contribution in the 
last 12 months. 
With their continued support, the outlook for the business is very 
positive. Our strategy is delivering and there is a broad and growing 
market opportunity that Sky, with our unique combination of 
strengths, is best placed to take advantage of. Our track record  
of success in Britain and Ireland is the starting point as we expand  
into Europe. The opportunity is substantial and this is good news  
for our people, good for customers and good for our shareholders.
Revenue
£7.6bn
Products
34.8m
Customers
11.5m
Game of Thrones became the highest-rating show ever on Sky Atlantic.
We saw a particularly good performance in TV, adding twice as many 
new customers as last year. This growth was underpinned by the 
quality and range of content we offer the whole family. This is our 
biggest year in entertainment yet as we target a spend of £600 million 
by the end of 2014 on original British programmes. Highlights from  
the past 12 months included Anglo-French crime drama The Tunnel,  
a co-production with Canal Plus, and Penny Dreadful, a psychological 
thriller produced by Oscar winner Sam Mendes.
We also strengthened our relationship with some of the world’s  
leading content producers, signing major new partnerships with  
ITV and HBO and renewing a multi-year movies agreement with 
Paramount, thereby increasing our range of exclusive content. 
Meanwhile, Sky Sports enjoyed its highest share of viewing for seven 
years with the best-ever Premier League season in terms of audiences, 
while at the same time strengthening its offering for the future with  
30 new sports rights agreements.
