 Annual Report 2014
04 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
Strategic report – Chairman’s statement
2014 has been a year of outstanding progress for Sky. 
Executing well against a clear and consistent strategy,  
the Company has delivered strong operational growth and  
an excellent financial performance in a year of investment.
A year of outstanding progress
Our results show there is very good momentum in Sky’s business with 
strong customer demand for our products and rapid growth in new 
services such as On Demand and NOW TV. This has been achieved 
against a challenging backdrop where there has been continued 
pressure on household budgets, and it is testament to the robustness 
of the strategy and the exemplary way in which management has 
executed their plans.
This year’s results build on a proven track record of delivery. Over the 
past few years, we have transformed the size and scale of the business, 
more than doubling earnings per share since 2009. This has enabled 
the Company to return a total of £3.4 billion to shareholders over  
that five-year period through a combination of share buybacks  
and dividends.
The Board is confident that Sky is well placed to take advantage of  
the growth opportunities ahead. The conditional acquisition of 100% 
of Sky Italia and 57.4% of Sky Deutschland from 21st Century Fox, 
announced on 25 July, will enable Sky to build on the strength of  
the business in Britain and Ireland to create even greater value  
for shareholders as a wider international business.
As Sky has grown, so has its economic contribution to Britain and 
Ireland. Sky is the biggest commercial supporter of the UK creative 
industries, investing more than £2.6 billion this year in high-quality 
sports, news and entertainment content. As a successful company,  
Sky contributes £6 billion to UK GDP, supports 117,000 jobs and 
generates a total of £2.7 billion in tax revenues for the Exchequer.
Sky also makes a considerable social contribution. We took a big step 
forward this year with the launch of Sky Academy, a groundbreaking 
set of initiatives to inspire young people and give them the skills and 
confidence they need to participate more fully in a changing world.  
Our aim is to create opportunities for up to one million young people 
to build skills and experience by 2020.
Over the past year, there have been a number of changes to the  
Board. We were very pleased to welcome Adine Grate, an experienced 
finance and investment professional, to the Board last July. I would  
like to thank Danny Rimer for his contribution as Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. He stepped down from this role at the  
AGM in November and has been succeeded by Tracy Clarke. I would 
particularly like to thank Andy Higginson, our Senior Independent 
Director, for his outstanding contribution to the Company in the last 
ten years. Andy will retire from the Board at the AGM in November.
Finally, in light of the Company’s strong performance, the Board 
proposes a 7% increase in the full-year dividend to 32.0 pence,  
the tenth consecutive year of growth.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank shareholders for their 
continued support and to extend my thanks to all of my colleagues 
across Sky for their commitment and their invaluable contribution  
to another excellent year for the business.
Nick Ferguson, CBE
Chairman Mr Sloane
Commissioned by Sky Atlantic, Mr Sloane was a bittersweet romantic comedy from the 
Director of Curb Your Enthusiasm Robert B. Weide and starred Nick Frost and Olivia Colman.
