  business review
chief executive  
officer’s  
strategic review
We have reported a strong set of results for 
our financial year ending 29 September 2013. 
As well as an improvement in the underlying 
performance of the business, we have made 
good progress on both the strategic initiatives 
we announced in May and on the international 
growth opportunities of our brands. 
Performance highlights
Although market conditions remained difficult in each of our 
business units, we saw some notable successes across the 
business and benefitted from the warm weather, with an 
exceptionally hot July.
•  In GB stills, Fruit Shoot has recovered from the impact of the recall 
in July 2012 with its take-home market share at the end of the 
financial year back to pre-recall levels. Brand perception measures, 
such as “brand you love” and “happy to give to your child” , 
recovered from the low point of 2012.
•  In GB carbonates, in a particularly competitive environment, we 
protected our volume whilst growing both price and revenue. Pepsi 
gained market value share, building on its share gains in 2012.
•  Our International business unit and our franchising model  
gained further momentum. Earlier in the year we announced that 
distribution would be expanded to 32 states in the USA in time 
for the summer. In addition we saw Fruit Shoot roll-out nationally 
in Spain with Pepsi South West Europe. In India we remain 
on-track to produce Fruit Shoot in-market by mid-2014 through 
the distribution agreement with the Narang Group.
•  In France, our syrups brands continued to perform well and 
gained further market share. Fruit Shoot successfully returned to 
the market and is performing ahead of where it was pre-recall.
•  In Ireland, our own brands increased market share, despite  
the difficult trading conditions in that market.
Towards the end of the financial year market performance was 
more subdued across all business units, for example, in GB in 
September take-home market volumes were down 1 .2%.
A new strategy for the business
In May I communicated that Britvic has the potential to become 
one of the most admired soft drinks businesses in the world by:
•  Becoming the benchmark integrated branded soft drinks 
business for both PepsiCo and our own brands in GB & Ireland.
•  Fully exploiting global category opportunities in kids, family  
and adult.
•  Creating a simple focused operating model, empowering our 
people and matching resource and capability to the opportunities 
and:
•  Being a trusted and respected member of the communities in 
which we operate.
To achieve this vision we set out a new strategy to drive market 
leading profit growth underpinned by margin enhancing revenue 
growth. The strategy has two parts, firstly our full portfolio markets 
of GB and Ireland and secondly the International and France 
business where we will leverage our category leadership of kids, 
family and adult categories. Further details of the strategy can be 
found on page 4 of the annual report.
Delivery of the strategy requires a new streamlined organisation 
structure based on three clear principles: simplicity to reduce 
complexity, enabling faster decision making and a lower cost 
operating model; focus against fewer strategic priorities matching 
resources and capability to execute better and; accountability 
ensuring we have clear ownership to deliver the performance.  
We have announced our new operating model and appointed  
our senior leadership and management teams. 
The restructuring of our GB and Ireland teams is due to be largely 
completed by quarter two 2014. We are now working hard to 
simplify our internal ways of working across all functions and  
will continue to fully support all employees impacted by change, 
including those in the supply chain who will leave the business 
between February and May 2014, or relocate between sites 
following the closure of Chelmsford & Huddersfield.
We also announced that we would deliver £30m of annualised  
cost savings by 2016, of which £25m would be realised by 2015.  
Of these savings we intend to reinvest a net £10m into the 
International business. We are on track to achieve these savings 
and the phasing that we outlined at the interims with the 
announcement of the new strategy.
8 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic initiatives update
1.   Increase operational leverage through fewer manufacturing 
sites by redistributing capacity, reducing the cost base and 
improving our asset utilisation
  -  Production to end in Huddersfield and Chelmsford by March 2014
  -  Ballygowan becomes the single water brand for GB and Ireland 
in spring 2014
  -  Achieved a 7% reduction in the number of production lines
2.   Fundamentally change the Irish operating model
  -  Combined senior leadership team for GB and Ireland appointed
  -  Belfast warehouse closed November 2013
  -  Licensed wholesale separated from the core business
3.    T ransform our procurement and product optimisation 
initiatives 
  -  Increased investment in people, systems and insight
  -  Implemented a strategic sourcing programme for key raw 
materials, such as juice
  -  Consolidated the indirect supplier base in GB by 16% and 
Ireland by 29%
4.   Implement a commercial change programme in GB  
to ensure our brands deliver strong and profitable  
revenue growth
  -  Developing a stronger partnership with intermediaries and 
direct customers to deliver a more efficient and profitable 
route to market solution
  -  Moved from three to two sales channels
  -  Improving our end-outlet contact model
International update
Our International business progressed well this year with a number 
of significant developments:
•  In the USA we saw distribution for Fruit Shoot grow to 32 states 
following further expansion with PepsiCo Americas Beverages 
(PAB) and a new agreement with the independent bottler,  
Pepsi Cola Bottling Company of Pittsburgh.
•  An agreement with PepsiCo South West Europe for the national 
distribution of Fruit Shoot in Spain.
•  A distribution agreement for Fruit Shoot with the Narang Group 
will see the brand available to consumers in India mid-2014.
•  The establishment of a management team and fully resourced 
business unit to drive our international expansion.
•  We have announced further material developments in  
the USA with the signing of a long term exclusive bottling 
agreement with PAB, for both expanded distribution and 
additional manufacturing capacity. This will see Fruit Shoot 
available in 41 states next year.
Being trusted and respected in our communities
Acknowledging the need to further incorporate the principles of 
corporate responsibility into the core of our business, in 2012 our 
Executive Team approved a new sustainable business strategy. This 
ensures that Britvic is well placed to address the key social and 
environmental risks facing us, including public health and responsible 
resource use, and acts on the opportunities that give us a business 
advantage. Finally, we aim to positively contribute to the communities 
on which we impact – whether that’s our employees, our consumers 
or the local geographies where we have a physical presence. In 
addition we recognise our impact on global communities, particularly 
those from which we source ingredients and all our direct suppliers 
are required to adhere to our ethical trading policy.
Full details of our sustainable business programme and the progress 
we have made can be found in the annual Sustainable Business 
Report. This can be downloaded from the results and presentation 
section of the website (www.britvic.com) or a hard copy can be 
requested by writing to: 
The Director of Corporate Affairs 
Britvic plc 
Breakspear Park 
Hemel Hempstead 
HP2 4TZ
We recognise that the diversity of our workforce is important to 
the success of the business and the board will be taking steps to 
address this. In 2013, women comprised 15% of our board and 
Executive Team membership, 27% of senior managers and 31%  
of total employees. There is currently one female on the Britvic plc 
board and a female General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The organisation has faced a year of uncertainty, firstly with the 
aborted merger and then with the focus on implementing the new 
strategy. The commitment and the passion shown by the Britvic 
team has been outstanding. In 2014 we will continue to implement 
our new strategy and we have comprehensive plans across the 
group to drive growth, including new innovation for Robinsons with 
“Squash’d” , Fruit Shoot partnering with Angry Birds, Teisseire 
sponsoring the Tour De France and Pepsi will bring football to life in 
its unique way. We recognise that there is a further period of change 
for our people, as we continue to implement our new operating 
model and change the way we work and that the external consumer 
environment will continue to be challenging. 
However, I am confident that with the team we have, our portfolio 
of great brands and our strong plans, we will continue to prosper 
and realise our ambition to be one of the world’s most admired soft 
drinks businesses.
Simon Litherland 
Chief Executive Officer
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
chief executive officer’s strategic review continued
9
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
