 Dear Shareholder
The last twelve months have been the most 
eventful in Britvic’s time as a public company. 
We began the year having agreed an all-share 
equity merger with AG Barr plc. We ended 
the year remaining independent, with a new 
Chief Executive Officer, Simon Litherland,  
at the helm, with a new strategy and a 
significant turnaround in our share price 
performance. Group EBIT grew by 18.8% on 
a constant currency basis to £135m and 
adjusted earnings per share rebounded by 
27 .5% to 35.2p per share.
The merger with AG Barr plc was conceived against the backdrop 
of the Fruit Shoot recall of July last year, which cost the company 
£25m. The combination of Britvic and AG Barr plc and the associated 
synergies was welcomed by our shareholders, who overwhelming 
voted in favour of the merger.
However, the proposed deal lapsed in February of this year, when 
the Office of Fair Trading referred the deal to the Competition 
Commission. With the OFT referral, Paul Moody, our Chief Executive 
at the time, retired from Britvic. Paul had spent some 16 years with 
the business, including seven years on the board, during which 
time the company grew substantially and overall delivered 
significant shareholder value. On behalf of the board, I would like 
to thank Paul for the dedication and professionalism he showed 
during his tenure and wish him all the best for the future. 
Simultaneously to Paul’s departure, the board appointed Simon 
Litherland as our new Chief Executive Officer. Simon had joined us 
the previous year, as part of our succession planning, from Diageo 
plc and had spent a busy year heading up our GB business. With 
the outcome of the merger unknown whilst the Competition 
Commission carried out their investigation, Simon set about 
defining a new strategy and organisational model for Britvic, with  
a net investment of £40m underpinning annual costs saving of 
£30m by 2016.
The response to this new strategy, which was shared at our interim 
results in May, has been overwhelmingly positive. With a new 
strategy and leadership team in place, we have seen a turnaround 
in the fortunes of the business. Fruit Shoot has enjoyed a strong 
recovery since the recall, avoiding long-term damage to the brand. 
Our international growth opportunities gained momentum with new 
agreements in Spain and India for Fruit Shoot and a step-change  
for the brand in the USA, with distribution into 32 states. Our 
businesses in France and Ireland also significantly improved their 
performance and the whole company benefited from the warm 
summer, as well as a number of the programmes Simon had initiated.
In July, we finally received clearance from the Competition 
Commission for the merger with AG Barr plc to take place. However, 
by then our fortunes had changed so substantially that we were 
unable to agree new mutually acceptable terms. The board decided 
that a future independent of AG Barr plc, implementing the new 
team’s plans, was preferable to merging on the terms that were 
available.
We have seen the progress we have made reflected in strong 
share price growth, with the share price recovering from a low of 
249p at the time of the Fruit Shoot recall to end the year at 575p. 
Britvic has undergone significant change in the past year and the 
board and I have been hugely impressed by the commitment of 
the Britvic team, at what has been a challenging time for our 
employees. We have every confidence in the future prospects of 
the business and believe that, under Simon’s leadership, we will 
see sustainable profit growth and the creation of meaningful 
shareholder value in the coming years.
Reflecting this confidence and the continued strong cash generation, 
we are proposing a final dividend of 13.0p pence per share, an 
increase on the previous year of 4.8%, making the full year increase 
in the dividend 4%.
As part of the board’s on-going development and desire to support 
the company in executing the new strategy, I can report that the 
board is seeking to make further changes to its composition. During 
the next 12 to 18 months two of our Non-Executive Directors, Bob 
Ivell and Michael Shallow, move closer to a nine year tenure from 
the date of their first election by shareholders in 2007 and therefore 
the end of their term of office. More details in relation to the board’s 
succession plans are set out in the Corporate Governance Report 
on page 35. As in previous years, all of our directors will retire at 
the AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The AGM will be held at 11am on Wednesday, 29 January 2014  
at Nomura, 1 Angel Lane, London EC4R 3AB and I look forward  
to seeing you there.
Gerald Corbett 
Chairman
6 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
 business review
chairman’s  
statement 7 Britvic plc Annual Report 2013
business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information business review governance financial statements overview shareholder information
