 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
STRATEGIC REVIEW
OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
I am delighted with the progress Broker Network has made in the last
twelve months. The clearest measure of success is, of course, our record
operating profit.
We are now better positioned than ever to take advantage of the
opportunities and to meet the challenges of this changing market. The next
few years will see the consolidation of community insurance brokers really
start to take shape and our strategy will enable us to secure our position
as one of the few businesses looking to service the insurance needs of the
smaller SME business sector.
BROKER NETWORK LTD
FSA statutory regulation of insurance brokers finally arrived with 'GI Day'
on 15th January 2005. However, the 'run-in' lasted almost four years and,
predictably, compliance support became our biggest selling Membership
benefit. Whilst Broker Network does not take direct responsibility for
regulation of Members, who are all separately regulated in their own right,
we were successful in persuading brokers that it was good practice to seek
the support of a network to help them become compliant.
Nevertheless, as we neared 'GI Day' it became clear that many other firms
had decided to go it alone and try to leap the compliance hurdle by
themselves. They spent much of 2004 and early 2005 in making sure their
compliance house was in order and had little appetite to consider anything
else. As a result we saw fewer brokers joining the network in this period
than in the previous 12 months.
The imminent arrival of a new regulatory environment necessitated a re-
evaluation of the quality of our existing Member base. As a result, the
We are now better
positioned than
ever to take
advantage of the
opportunities and
to meet the
challenges of this
changing market.
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 four membership of three brokers was
terminated prior to January 15th
this year.
Our strategy of offering to
acquire the businesses of
Members whose principals wish
to retire has been well received.
We have acquired 11 firms in the
last 18 months, whose owners
would otherwise have sold their
businesses elsewhere and would
as a result have been lost to us.
In addition, we were instrumental
in assisting 12 Members to merge
with one another.
Some six months after GI Day, I
am pleased to report that the rate
of enquiry has once again picked
up and we now expect to be able
to return to the levels of new
member recruitment enjoyed in
previous years.
2004 was the year we honed our
proposition to insurers and
demonstrated how we add
tangible value to their business
too. I am delighted to report that
most now accept the network
does indeed offer them significant
profitable growth opportunities.
As a result, we have agreed a
number of fresh initiatives in the
last year and I am confident we
will be able to sustain the
improved contribution to our
earnings from the work we do for
insurers in the future.
Closer relationships with insurers
also enabled us to negotiate
further improvements in the terms
received by our Members from
the main insurer suppliers and,
unsurprisingly, this has been well
received.  Indeed, I am delighted
to report that our independently
conducted Member Satisfaction
Survey shows that Members'
satisfaction with our services has
never been higher. In the last four
years, whilst 112 brokers have
joined us as Members, only one
firm has left us other than through
a sale of the business.
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 five BROKER NETWORK INSURANCE BROKERS
I have mentioned already that we have now acquired
11 Member firms where the principals wanted to exit
the business and retire. Our task in making these
acquisitions has been to apply a corporate structure to
what were largely 'lifestyle' businesses, but in such a
way as to allow us to concurrently retain all their
'closeness to customer' business advantages.
A new Acturis ASP IT platform is now installed in all but
the very latest acquired sites. We are already starting
to enjoy some of the economies of scale that this
brings, such as a central account reconciliation
function for example, and expect to benefit from
access to improved management information across
all the BNIB sites.
We have also installed new management in the
majority of sites. The quality of candidates has been a
revelation - it seems that the proposition of running
your own 'branch' has a strong appeal to many and we
have appointed some excellent and talented people as
a result.
We now have an established platform on which to
build in the second year. Most of the customer base we
have acquired has remained loyal and there is now an
opportunity to build on that through our centralised
marketing to new prospects. This, coupled with a
greater emphasis on good business management, will
ensure a sustainable and growing contribution for the
group going forwards.
As with new Member enquiries, after a quiet period in
the months immediately before and after GI Day, we
now once again have a healthy pipeline of potential
acquisition enquires to pursue.
I am particularly pleased to be able to report on the
substantial acquisition of the Fraser Tennant Group at
the beginning of this month. This business has four
branches in southern Scotland with an enviable
reputation and excellent connections to the
agricultural and business communities in the region.
Whilst somewhat larger than the other acquisitions
completed to date, it nevertheless contains all the
elements we look for in a purchase and is a first-rate
strategic fit. Its size increases our revenues in BNIB by
some 60%, thereby helping to spread the central
management costs of the BNIB business more widely.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
Broker Network London Markets (BNLM), our
provisionally accredited Lloyd's broker, achieved a
35% growth in revenue during the period. We know
that network Members have a significant volume of
business placed into Lloyd's and the London Market
and would benefit from direct access to the market via
BNLM. It is our task to persuade Members that we
have the experience, capacity and knowledge to
handle this business for them from now on.
Broker Network Underwriting (BNU) provides insurance
products branded exclusively for Members. After the
successful implementation of the Acturis ASP IT system
across the whole of BNU in the early part of the year,
we have been able to concentrate on increasing the
volume and therefore BNU's overall contribution. I am
happy to report that BNU achieved both these
objectives and successfully launched the first of a new
suite of branded products on 1st July 2005.
Both BNLM and BNU are relatively small parts of the
business at present. We believe, however, that they
offer significant opportunities to both Members and
insurers alike and are capable of growing into
important revenue streams.
CONSOLIDATION AND COMPETITION
There are now signs that more brokers are looking for
an industry exit than was the case previously. As the
reality of regulation starts to bite, we expect this growth
to continue. We also expect those who are not yet
ready to retire, to seek our help in growing and
improving their business. Either way, we are well
placed to provide for both.
There are two other serious network propositions with
whom we currently compete - a third is expected to
launch their offering imminently. We believe that we
will be a beneficiary of a stronger competitive
environment, as it will move the debate on from 'Shall
I join a network?' to 'Which network shall I join?'. With
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 six a conservative estimate of some 4,500 community
insurance brokers still trading, there are plenty of
potential customers to support three or four credible
network players.
In terms of acquisitions, we see little likelihood of
competition as all our acquisitions thus far have come
from our own network Members. However, were we to
consider acquisitions from outside the Member
network, we believe that our proposition will prove
more attractive than many others. Our approach is to
retain the people, premises, and even the existing
trading name. These features have proved extremely
popular with vendors so far and we see no reason why
these attractions will not continue to give us a
competitive edge in the future.
INSURANCE MARKET CONDITIONS
There has been much publicity around the cyclical
nature of the insurance market. Premium inflation
started to stall in 2004 and has shown signs of
actually falling in 2005.  Although we clearly benefited
from a rise in premium levels, our business is prepared
for softening premium rates so we can benefit at all
points in the cycle.  
In softer market conditions, insurers have a greater
appetite for business and will therefore compete more
readily. Although headline volumes may decline,
margins can rise. In addition there are real
opportunities for proactive brokers to acquire new
customers.  We will benefit directly from both of these
factors in BNIB.
As far as independent network Members are
concerned, our experience of the last soft cycle in the
late 1990's suggests they will work hard enough at
acquiring new customers to offset any loss of volume
from their existing customer base. Indeed, our statistics
for 2004/5 saw Member premium volume grow
organically by 3.4% and for the first 4 months of 2005
by 1%. Whilst the rate of growth has undoubtedly
moderated, it is still growth nonetheless, which bears
out our assessment.
OUTLOOK FOR 2005/6
2004/5 was an exciting year for Broker Network and
2005/6 has the potential to be even more so. With the
experience we have gained from the 11 acquisitions
made up to the end of April and the three completed
since, we now have the platform to begin to fully
exploit the opportunities presented to us. We have a
stronger management team than ever and our
investment in new services will be rewarded by
financial returns in future years.
The Broker Network team looks forward to the
challenges in the coming year, which will present us
with huge opportunities as the insurance market once
again undergoes a period of significant change. We
are confident that trading conditions will remain
favourable in 2005/6.
Grant Ellis
Chief Executive Officer
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 seven
