 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
My first report as Chairman and Broker Network's first report to
shareholders as an AIM listed company marks the end of an extremely
important and successful year for the Company, both from a financial and
managerial standpoint.
Although the headline figure of a 130% increase in profit before tax and
goodwill amortisation speaks for itself, a great deal has also been
achieved to strengthen the long-term foundations of the business. Member
numbers, the bedrock of our business, have grown by a further 5% to 139
during the period whilst the 2004/5 figures include income from the 11
Member businesses we now own outright. Even more pleasing, an
independent survey has confirmed that our Members are extremely
satisfied with the services that they receive from Broker Network. In
addition, the business' reputation with insurers is excellent and our financial
success underscores the strength of our proposition in the market.
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS
A key event of the year was the successful flotation on AIM on 10th May
2004. The placing of the company's shares raised £2.2m of new money net
of expenses. We now have a good spread of both institutional and private
shareholders and a clear mandate to continue to pursue our strategy of
acquiring businesses from brokers who wish to retire.
TEAM
The Broker Network team, under the management of Grant Ellis, has
worked extremely hard over the past year in delivering not only a successful
flotation but also an excellent trading result. The move into the acquisition
and running of insurance broking businesses has necessitated a
Broker Network is
well positioned to
continue its growth
and financial
success in the
foreseeable future
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 two strengthening of the management
team and I am pleased to say we
have attracted a number of new
and talented people to join us. It
has also allowed us to offer
greater career opportunities to
those ambitious individuals who
are already a part of the team
and this will help underpin the
long-term potential of the
business. The introduction of a
Long Term Incentive Plan in the
forthcoming year will enable us to
reward successful results
achieved in the years to come.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As a private company, good
corporate governance featured
strongly with many of the
important disciplines necessary in
a public company already in
place. One of our key objectives
post flotation was to ensure we
addressed any corporate
governance issues given our new
status and I am pleased to
announce that we now have an
Audit Committee and a
Remuneration Committee, both
of which operate very effectively.
OUTLOOK
There is now clear evidence that
the long expected consolidation
of the small 'community'
insurance broker market and
move to the shelter of networks is
underway, as the impact of
statutory regulation starts to bite.
We enjoy excellent relationships
with our insurer partners and
have a proposition that our
competitors have found difficult
to compete with.  Broker Network
is well positioned to continue its
growth and financial success in
the foreseeable future.
Faisal Rahmatallah
Chairman
Broker Network Holdings plc, Annual Report & Accounts, year ended 30th April 2005 three
