 Chairman’s Statement
INTRODUCTION
I am pleased to report another excellent year for Broker Network. The
financial results speak for themselves and give evidence to the very good
work that has been carried out over the last 2-3 years by all concerned.
It is clear that the strategies of:
• Increasing the value added to our Members and our insurer partners
in the network business, and
• Increasing our participation in retail broking through acquisition
are bearing fruit as planned.
It is particularly reassuring that these strategies are only part executed and
the scope therefore for continued profitable growth at Broker Network is
substantial.
CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS
A significant development of Broker Network’s strategy has been the
acquisition of businesses which only became Members of the network
upon acquisition. This has the double benefit of adding new premium
income to Broker Network as well as additional retail broking margin. Two
such businesses have been acquired in the year and we are pleased with
the way they have been integrated. Particularly significant has been the
acquisition of TL Risk Solutions Ltd (TLRS) after the end of the financial year
where a structure has been implemented which other consolidators in the
insurance broking market would find difficult to implement, but which
Broker Network has been able to effect because of its
membership/network structure.  
The acquisition of firms who are not currently Members but whose profile
fits our Membership criteria will continue to be a feature of Broker
Network’s strategy going forward. This enhances the development
potential of the business significantly.
Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ Report & Consolidated Financial Statements, 30th April 2006
2 TEAM
These results have only been attained through the
application, energy and creativity of the
management team and all the people at Broker
Network. The Board has recently been strengthened
with the addition of Nigel Law, the MD of our retail
broking business, Broker Network Insurance Brokers.
The Broker Network management will also benefit
from the experience that the senior team from TLRS
bring with them.  Overall, the group now employs
over 350 people whose effort day to day is extremely
important and underpins the performance of the
group.  
FINANCIAL RESOURCES
To continue to grow, Broker Network needs cash to
fund development and in particular further earnings
enhancing acquisitions. The group is cash generative
and is currently able to fund its growth from its own
resources and loan facilities made available by
Lloyds TSB. The funding requirement associated with
future acquisitions is continually assessed by the
Board against the cash that will be generated
internally and what is available prudently from our
banking facilities.
OUTLOOK
The insurance broking market for brokers focussed
on SME clients is in a period of consolidation.
Broker Network is one of the half a dozen principal
consolidators in this part of the general insurance
industry. However, Broker Network is also the leading
network organisation for general insurance brokers
in the U.K. and is unique in offering owner-managed
brokers the option of remaining independent and
coming under the umbrella of the network
organisation, or of being acquired by our retail
broking operation which fully understands and
values the importance of local market presence and
relationships. We believe it is a powerful proposition
which will underpin the continued growth of the
business for the foreseeable future.
Faisal Rahmatallah
Chairman
Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ Report & Consolidated Financial Statements, 30th April 2006
3
