 Chief Executive’s
Review
OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
It is pleasing to report another year of excellent progress for the Broker
Network Group (BN). Fine tuning our strategy has meant that we continue
to be well placed to take advantage of the opportunities presented to us
by the consolidation in the market place.
BROKER NETWORK LTD
This has been another impressive year for Broker Network Ltd. Improved
revenue streams from all sources have enabled us to increase turnover by
35%, whilst costs have been contained, resulting in a 76% increase in
contribution from this business.
New Member recruitment, interrupted last year by the arrival of statutory
compulsory regulation, has now returned to the level we enjoyed in
previous years. Better still is that it is the larger firms, which until recently
would not have considered it necessary or appropriate to join a network,
that we are also persuading to join us. The pipeline of prospective new
Members is also very robust - this underlines the fact that the Broker
Network proposition for independent Members is now stronger than ever.
As far as our existing customers are concerned, our independently
conducted Member Satisfaction Survey shows that Members’ satisfaction
with our service achieved a new record high at the end of the first quarter
of this year. During the year we also acquired 4 more Member businesses
whose owners would otherwise have sold elsewhere.
This is the first time we have been able to report a full year’s contribution
from our refreshed proposition to insurers and the work we do for them.
Not only have we been able to sustain the previous year’s contribution but
we have also been able to improve it with increases from most of the main
insurer partners. Members too have benefited from these closer working
relationships with improvements in their margin across many classes of
business.
Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ Report & Consolidated Financial Statements, 30th April 2006
4 BROKER NETWORK INSURANCE BROKERS LTD
In addition to the four Member businesses we
acquired in 2005/6, we also, for the first time,
acquired two businesses from non members. This
development of our plan came about as a result of
the experience we had gained from Member
acquisitions which gave us the confidence to seek
out high quality non member businesses with the
requisite profile. The slightly higher risk of acquiring
businesses that are not known to us is offset by a
more intensive due diligence process and higher
initial rewards. It is also possible to actively pursue
non members for acquisition. Our stance with
Members, whilst making sure they know we are
acquisitive, is to let them make the first move.
We have learnt from the acquisition of retail broking
businesses made over the past two years. Expectations
about what we can achieve and how quickly are now
firmly based on experience and our strategy and
methodology has been fine tuned as a result.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS
I am particularly pleased to be able to report on the
major acquisition of Towry Law Insurance Brokers Ltd
(renamed and now trading as TL Risk Solutions)
which completed on 30 June 2006. TL Risk Solutions
(TLRS) is a substantial retail general insurance broker
specialising in mid market commercial insurance
with additional expertise in Healthcare, personal
insurance for High Net Worth individuals,
professional indemnity and credit insurance.
Until it was acquired by us, TLRS had been a division
of the Towry Law Group, probably best known as an
independent financial advisor.
Working closely with the management team we were
able to construct a deal which was satisfactory to the
vendor but also gave management the opportunity,
with our help, to take a stake in and continue to run
the business.
There are significant benefits to TLRS in joining forces
with BN, both from a trading and operating cost
perspective. As far as BN is concerned, we have the
comfort that an established management team has
itself invested in the future prosperity of this business.
I welcome this team, and look forward to working
closely with it in the coming months and years.
Broker Network London Markets (BNLM), which
received its full Lloyd’s broker accreditation in
December 2005, experienced growth of revenue of
38% over the period but, notwithstanding, made a
small loss. At just three years old this is still an
embryonic business. As our reputation in the London
Market grows we can access an ever widening range
of specialist high risk markets and more Members
are now making use of the facility than ever before.
Unfortunately, the current very competitive nature of
the high risk insurance market means that Members
have less need to use a wholesale broker like BNLM
as they can place many of the more difficult risks with
mainstream insurers than was previously the case.
However, by controlling costs and continuing to win
friends this business should be well placed once the
market sees an upturn in rating. TLRS will also
provide an opportunity to share some of the
operating costs (for example both will co-habit in
new premises in the City later this year) and a chance
to pitch for their portfolio of London Market business.
Broker Network Underwriting (BNU), the division of
Broker Network Ltd that provides insurance products
branded exclusively for network Members, saw
increased revenues of 59% over the prior year whilst
its profit contribution grew by 130% as a result of
improved economies of scale.  The product suite was
also extended towards the end of the financial year,
so we should see further improvements in both
volume and productivity in the coming months.
Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ Report & Consolidated Financial Statements, 30th April 2006
5 CONSOLIDATION AND COMPETITION
Whilst the pace of broker consolidation continues to
escalate it seems that the appetite of the
consolidators remains healthy. Whilst there are plenty
of brokers willing to sell their businesses competition
amongst buyers is intense. This inevitably impacts on
the price consolidators are required to pay to secure
acquisitions, particularly of the larger more profitable
businesses. We also believe that the insurer
community is looking more keenly at owning its own
distribution channels which will increase competition
further.
We have seen little competition however when
making our smaller acquisitions and even with the
larger firms we believe our proposition can prove
more attractive than others. Our approach of
retaining the people, premises and more often than
not the trading name, have been significant factors in
winning acquisitions, most notably when we acquired
TL Risk Solutions. 
Surprisingly the competitive environment for networks
remains static. We believe that Broker Network could
be the beneficiary of any increased competition in
this area. As the undisputed number one network in
UK general insurance it is clear that we are still
winning more significant new accounts than our
competitors.
INSURANCE MARKET CONDITIONS
The cyclical nature of the insurance market is well
known. Following four years of organic growth in
premiums up to 2004, premiums started to fall in
2005, and this continues in 2006. This is therefore
the first year since we became a public company
where we have operated exclusively in an
environment of softening premiums.
In 2005 I suggested that the Broker Network
business model was able to sustain profitability at all
points of the insurance cycle - in softer market
conditions insurers have a greater appetite for
business and therefore, whilst headline volumes may
decline, margins can rise to compensate. However,
scale and a profitable book of business are needed
to maximise this opportunity.
I believe this year’s results speak for themselves.
Members too (both independent and owned) have
benefited - their like for like premium income fell by
3.8% this year, but in the same period their earnings
as a percentage of premium rose by 8.2%.
OUTLOOK FOR 2006/7
Our first two full years of being a public company
have been challenging but at the same time exciting
and I foresee this will continue in the year ahead.
Our reputation continues to grow amongst our core
target market and the acquisition of TL Risk Solutions
should ensure other such opportunities are presented
to us. I am therefore confident that the trading
outlook for the company will remain favourable in
2006/7.
Grant Ellis
Chief Executive Officer
Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ Report & Consolidated Financial Statements, 30th April 2006
6
