 Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ report and 
consolidated financial statements, 30 April 2007
Chief Executive’ s 
review
I	am	delighted	to	be	reporting	another	year	of	 excellent	results	for	the	Broker	Network	Group. 	Despite	 extremely	tough	insurance	market	conditions, 	we	 continue	to	demonstrate	that	our	diverse	business	 model	allows	us	to	prosper	whatever	underlying	 market	conditions	prevail.
Broker Network Limited 
Our	Network	business	continues	to	thrive	with	turnover	 increasing	by	45%	from	£7.32	million	to	£10.65	million, 	 and	operating	profit	growing	from	£3.11	million	to	 £5.71	million	-	an	increase	of	84%. 		Economies	of	 scale	mean	we	have	been	able	to	increase	our	profit	 margin	in	this	business, 	and	there	remains	plenty	of	 headroom	to	grow	income	and	profitability	still	further.
Recruitment	of	new	Members	in	the	year	was	in	line	 with	our	forecast. 	 We	are	also	now	attracting	larger	 firms	alongside	our	traditional	broker	base, 	evidenced	 by	the	relative	size	of	new	recruits	which	were, 	on	 average,	64%	larger	than	our	existing	Members. 	Our	 service	infra-structure	and	proposition	is	sufficiently	 flexible	to	meet	all	our	wide	ranging	customer	 requirements	offering	real	benefit	to	brokerages	of	 most	sizes.
The	pipeline	of	prospective	new	Members	also	 remains	extremely	healthy.
Membership	numbers	have	fluctuated	throughout	 the	period	with	Members	merging	and	a	handful	 of	others	deciding	to	retire. 	 There	has	also	been	a	 small	number	leaving	at	our	behest	as	a	result	of	our	 performance	and	suitability	monitoring. 	 We	believe	 this	is	the	right	strategy	and	helps	to	reinforce	our	 commitment	to	quality	and	the	high	standards	we	 expect	in	return	for	Membership.
Our	ultimate	Membership	goal	is	to	have	a	Broker	 Network	Member	within	every	significant	community	 in	the	UK. 	Our	updated	target	is	250	firms	by	 2010	rising	to	500	by	2015. 		 To	put	this	ambition	 in	perspective, 	there	are	currently	around	4,500	 insurance	brokers	in	the	UK. 	 This	number	is	declining	 due	to	the	consolidation	that	is	taking	place, 	 although	some	of	the	decline	is	offset	by	new	start-up	 businesses.
06 Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ report and 
consolidated financial statements, 30 April 2007
The	insurance	market	accepts	that	membership	of	 a	network	is	a	growing	necessity	for	independent	 brokers	which	benefits	both	them	and	insurers. 		 As	market	leaders	we	profit	from	this	and	believe	 that	penetration	of	over	10%, 	whilst	a	challenge, 	is	 nevertheless	achievable.
As	part	of	a	Group	wide	re-brand	we	began	looking	 for	a	phrase	that	would	sum	up	the	essence	and	 values	of	our	network	business. 	 The	process	had	 us	consult	our	own	people, 	our	Members	and	 Partner	Insurers	and	eventually	led	us	to	the	phrase	 Enterprising Champion.	 We	have	also	taken	the	 opportunity	to	document	our	values	and	therefore	 what	behaviour	is	consistent	with	these. 	In	this	way	 we	should	be	able	to	ensure	that	as	the	business	 grows	we	do	not	lose	sight	of	what	has	made	us	so	 successful	to	date.
During	this	exercise	we	also	received	a	new	visual	 identity	and	have	re-written	our	service	proposition	to	 Members	to	ensure	it	is	consistent	with	the	new	brand.
The Retail Insurance Division (comprising TL Risk 
Solutions and Broker Network Insurance Brokers)
Our	retail	division	is	represented	across	the	country	 via	our	owned	brokers	–	those	Members	and	others	 acquired	since	the	formation	of	this	division	at	the	 beginning	of	2004. 	So	far	we	have	made	20	retail	 division	acquisitions, 	our	latest	one	being	completed	 on	31	 August	2007, 	and	we	now	trade	from	23	sites	 across	mainland	UK.
The	division	hit	sales	targets	for	2006/07	and	 customer	retention	remains	extremely	high. 	 This	 is	particularly	encouraging	in	the	 TLRS	business	 where	we	were	required	to	relocate	five	offices	into	 new	premises	during	the	period	with	the	inevitable	 disruption	that	this	entails. 	 Turnover	for	the	division	 grew	in	the	year	by	144%	to	£12.83	million, 	whilst	 operating	profit	before	amortisation	rose	385%	to	£	 2.13	million.
Whilst	only	completing	two	acquisitions	in	the	 current	period, 	we	continue	nonetheless	to	focus	 on	providing	an	exit	route	for	brokers	contemplating	 retirement	and	the	purchase	of	community	general	 insurance	brokers	remains	at	the	core	of	Group	 strategy.
However,	the	market	for	broker	purchases	is	fiercely	 competitive,	particularly	since	insurers	entered	 the	fray	last	year. 	 We	now	have	to	contend	with	 competitors	who	are	not	as	disciplined	as	we	are	 when	it	comes	to	the	financial	returns	they	expect	 from	their	acquisitions. 	Despite	this, 	we	still	firmly	 believe	that	there	are	those	who	find	our	proposition	 more	attractive	than	the	competition, 	borne	out	 by	the	fact	that	we	are	at	present	reviewing	a	 number	of	prospects	for	the	current	year. 	 We	remain	 confident	that	we	can	manage	expectations	and	 complete	several	transactions	which	will	all	be	value	 enhancing.
Other Developments
Broker	Network	London	Markets	(BNLM)	was	 established	to	provide	network	Members	with	access	 to	Lloyd’s	and	the	London	markets	for	insuring	 clients	involved	in	specialist	or	high-risk	activities. 	 The	 division	serves	us	well	as	an	investment	for	a	cyclical	 market	–	less	utilised	in	the	current	 ‘soft’	market	 where	premiums	are	low	and	traditional	insurers	 are	prepared	to	underwrite	to	a	wider	risk	profile, 	 but	indispensable	once	the	insurance	market	once	 again	hardens.
Despite	such	challenging	trading	conditions	turnover	 increased	by	2%	from	£0.27	million	to	£0.28	million	 although	the	business	continues	to	make	a	small	loss. 	 Insurance Market Conditions
It	has	been	a	tough	year	for	insurers	underwriting	 business	in	the	UK	following	the	storms	in	January	 2007	and	floods	in	June	and	July.
Only	days	after	we	announced	a	trading	update	 in	June	2007, 	where	we	commented	on	prevailing	 benign	weather	conditions, 	the	UK	experienced	 some	of	the	worst	flooding	in	its	history. 	Some	industry	 sources	are	even	suggesting	that	the	cost	to	insurers	 of	flood	damage	could	top	£5	billion.
07 Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ report and 
consolidated financial statements, 30 April 2007
The	impact	of	the	flooding	on	insurer	rating	is	unlikely	 to	filter	through	in	2007, 	although	clearly	it	will	be	 present	when	they	announce	their	results. 	 We	have	 already	seen	some	insurers	publicly	stating	their	 intention	to	increase	rates	to	recover	their	losses	 going	forwards. 		In	reality	the	floods	are	only	the	 catalyst	rather	than	the	root	cause	of	these	intentions. 	 	 Almost	all	major	insurers	were	reporting	deteriorating	 results	for	the	first	half	of	2007	before	the	impact	of	 the	floods	is	taken	into	account.
It	is	likely	therefore	that	the	current	action	being	 taken	by	insurers	will	stall	deflation	in	premiums	in	the	 remainder	of	2007	and	we	are	likely	to	see	rates	rise	 gradually	during	the	first	half	of	2008.
As	premiums	rise	our	earnings	across	the	Group	 will	increase	and	we	will	see	additional	organic	 growth	from	our	network	and	retail	divisions. 	 As	we	 mentioned	on	11	June	2007, 	we	have	worked	hard	 to	ensure	our	earnings	from	our	key	Partner	Insurers	 are	secure	for	the	longer	term, 	by	demonstrating	real	 value	in	the	service	we	provide	them. 	 As	the	market	 hardens,	with	inevitable	downward	pressure	on	broker	 margins,	we	will	begin	to	reap	the	benefits	of	these	 arrangements.
I	reiterate	that	the	diverse	nature	of	our	business	 means	the	Group	is	well	placed	to	trade	comfortably	 at	any	point	in	the	insurance	cycle. 	 We	remain	 confident	that	we	will	have	the	opportunity	to	 demonstrate	this	once	again	in	the	coming	year.
Outlook for 2007-08
I	am	delighted	to	have	maintained	our	market	 leading	position	and	intend	to	build	on	it.
There	are	still	abundant	opportunities	for	expansion	 within	this	fast	moving	industry	and	we	are	working	 hard	to	remain	at	the	forefront	in	our	areas	of	 expertise.	For	example	we	are	currently	evaluating	 the	opportunity	that	exists	to	expand	our	Healthcare	 business	following	the	successful	acquisition	and	 integration	of	 TLRS,	which	has	a	sizeable	Healthcare	 division	within	it. 	 We	remain	realistic	and	prudent	 in	our	acquisition	programme	and	we	continue	to	 evaluate	critically	our	offering	to	network	Members	 and	Partner	Insurers	to	ensure	we	retain	our	market	 leading	position	as	the	UK’s	number	one	network	for	 independent	insurance	brokers. 	 We	strongly	believe	that	the	Broker	Network	 business	model	remains	relevant	and	robust. 	 Whilst	 challenging	trading	conditions	lay	ahead	we	are	 looking	forward	with	confidence	to	another	year	 of	good	performance	and	enhanced	shareholder	 value.
Grant	Ellis
Chief	Executive	Officer
08
