 Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ report and 
consolidated financial statements, 30 April 2007
Chairman’ s 
statement
I	am	pleased	to	report	another	excellent	year	for	 Broker	Network. 	 The	company	has	continued	to	 grow	strongly	both	by	acquisition	and	organically, 	 profitability	has	continued	to	improve, 	and	the	 reputation	of	the	company	within	the	insurance	 industry	has	been	significantly	enhanced.
The	results	for	the	financial	year	reflect	four	primary	 drivers.	First, 	there	are	full	year	contributions	from	 acquisitions	made	during	2005-06. 	Second, 	 acquisitions	made	during	2006-07	including	the	 major	step	of	acquiring	 TLRS	have	provided	a	 significant	contribution.		 Third,	the	company	has	 generated	growth	by	increasing	the	number	and	 size	of	network	Members. 	Finally, 	as	insurers	have	 recognised	the	increasing	size	and	quality	of	the	 company,	improved	insurer	terms	have	contributed	 significantly. 	 These	same	performance	drivers	will	 continue	to	influence	the	company	over	the	coming	 years,	although	with	the	company’s	greater	size, 	the	 rate	of	growth, 	which	has	been	dramatic	over	the	last	 couple	of	years, 	will	gradually	reduce.
The	rate	of	broker	acquisition	has	slowed	somewhat	 in	the	last	financial	year. 	 This	partly	reflects	the	 management	team’s	desire	to	 “draw	breath” 	following	 the	acquisition	of	 TLRS,	but	also	a	relative	absence	of	 attractive	opportunities. 	However, 	a	continuous	effort	 has	been	put	into	building	the	acquisitions	pipeline	 and	there	are	now	a	good	number	of	potential	 opportunities.	 We	remain	cognisant	of	the	need	not	 to	overpay	and	this	will	inevitably	influence	the	rate	at	 which	acquisitions	are	made.
TLRS	has	performed	in	line	with	our	expectations	 at	the	time	of	acquisition. 	 This	acquisition	was	a	 particularly	significant	step	because	of	its	size	and	it	is	 pleasing	that	the	integration	process	has	progressed	 smoothly.
The	core	network	business	has	performed	very	 strongly,	mainly	through	margin	enhancement. 	 We	 now	perceive	opportunities	for	further	organic	growth	 in	this	area	–	primarily	by	adding	new	members	 as	well	as	increasing	their	average	size	still	further. 		 Resources	have	been	added	to	the	new	member	 sales	team	to	enable	this	growth	to	follow.
04 Broker Network Holdings plc, Directors’ report and 
consolidated financial statements, 30 April 2007
As	the	company	has	grown	so	has	the	organisation	 and	we	now	employ	more	than	350	people	in	23	 locations	around	the	country. 	 These	results	have	only	 been	attained	through	their	hard	work, 	dedication	 and	energy. 		 The	management	team	has	developed	 along	with	the	size	of	the	organisation	and	it	is	 reassuring	that	there	is	now	strength	in	depth	which	 can	be	called	upon	as	the	company	grows	further. 	 My	thanks	are	extended	to	all	employees	for	the	effort	 that	has	gone	into	achieving	these	results.
We	are	pleased	to	announce	the	payment	of	a	 dividend	to	shareholders	for	the	year	ended	30	 April	 2007.	 This	will	be	payable	on	26	October	2007	to	all	 shareholders	on	the	register	at	28	September	2007. 	 This	is	subject	to	approval	at	the	annual	general	 meeting	of	the	Company	on	17	October	2007.
The	outlook	for	the	company	is	good. 	 We	can	see	the	 potential	to	further	consolidate	our	position	as	the	 leading	insurance	broking	network	in	the	country.
Faisal	Rahmatallah
Chairman
05
