 2 3 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  2 3 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Domestic
Revenue £91 6.4m
Operating Profit* £32.6m
Margin 3.6%
Key Facts
322 PTS branches trading •	
15 new PTS branches opened •	
11 F & P branches trading •	
PTS supply a wide range of customers from  
national contractors to sole trading plumbers  
and heating engineers. 
The PTS central buying team works closely with 
leading manufacturers so that we can offer our 
customers the latest product innovations and the 
best range of market leading brands at competitive 
prices. With five regional distribution centres PTS is 
able to offer unrivalled local level of service backed 
up by a national support network. Locally the 
branches provide a fast and efficient delivery  
either direct to the construction site or to the 
customer’s premises. 
Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitaryware is 
supplied through F & P Wholesale (‘F & P’) providing 
national coverage. The needs of independent 
plumbers’ merchants and appliance outlets are 
serviced through daily deliveries and competitive 
pricing. Each centre has a team of knowledgeable 
staff ready to assist customers.
Directing Heating Spares (‘DHS’), a leading 
wholesaler and distributor of spare parts to the 
heating industry, was acquired in April 2009 and now 
forms part of the Domestic Division.
*  Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles of £0.5m 
(2009: £0.4m) and reorganisation costs of £0.8m (2009: £0.6m)
www.ptsplumbing.co.uk •	
www.fpwholesale.com •	
www.dhsspares.co.uk •	
The BSS Group plc is a leading 
distributor to specialist trades. 
Our customers are industrial 
contractors, domestic 
plumbers and heating 
engineers, independent 
merchants and industrial end 
users. Our branch based, sales 
focused approach, supported 
by excellent nationwide 
logistics, ensures we deliver 
constantly high levels of 
customer service.
We recognise that scale and 
leadership brings competitive 
advantage and we aim to 
break into adjacent markets 
and take BSS to a higher level 
of revenue and profitability.
The Business Review contains forward looking statements with respect to the financial 
condition, results, operations and business of the BSS Group plc. These statements 
and forecasts include risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on 
circumstances that occur in the future. There are a number of factors that could cause 
actual results or developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by the 
forward statements.
Overview
At a Glance  
2 3 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  2 3 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Industrial Specialist
Revenue  £332.4m
Operating Profit*  £25.1m
Margin  7.6 %
Key Facts
63 BSS Industrial branches trading •	
2 drainage branches opened •	
16 implant drainage branches opened •	
10 UGS branches trading •	
The industrial, commercial and process industry, 
construction and maintenance markets are serviced 
through BSS Industrial in the UK and Ireland. 
Customers are serviced across all industrial sectors. 
Specialist teams provide technical sales support 
and a nationwide branch network is supported 
by a Central Logistics team as well as a National 
Distribution Centre based at Lutterworth, 
Leicestershire, which provides daily delivery services 
to all branches. 
The National Tube Distribution Centre at Coventry 
offers a unique solution for linear distribution. It is 
designed to store around 400 linear tube products  
in stainless and carbon steel, plastic, cast iron  
and copper, and is supported by a fleet of  
articulated vehicles. 
Specialist brands Pegler & Louden, AMS, Austin 
Stroud, Havelock Controls and Manor Plastics 
enhance our service offering to the industrial repair, 
maintenance and improvement (‘RMI’) markets.
Underground Supplies (‘UGS’), acquired on  
5 February 2010, is a leading UK distributor for the 
supply of underground drainage and civil engineering 
materials to the construction industry offering a vast 
range of products and technical support to civil 
contractors and main builders.
*  Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles of £0.4m 
(2009: £0.3m) and redundancy costs of £1.2m (2009: £0.3m)
www.bssindustrial.co.uk •	
www.ugs.uk.com •	
Revenue £103.6m
Operating Profit*  £2.0m
Margin 1.9%
Key Facts
29 B & H branches trading •	
B & H trade counters •	
relaunched as Tooltastic
B & H stocked range of 60,000  •	
products
Buck & Hickman (‘B & H’) is one of the UK’s leading 
distributors of tools, maintenance and health and 
safety products. The product range includes 23,000 
items which are marketed under Buck & Hickman’s 
‘Roebuck’ own brand. Buck & Hickman offers a 
range of industry leading value added solutions 
including Vendor Managed Inventory  
and eProcurement.
Price Tools and Birchwood Products merged in  
April 2009 to form Birchwood Price Tools (‘BPT’)  
a wholesaler of power tools and accessories,  
hand tools, safety wear and general consumables 
to established dealers across sectors covering both 
trade and industry as well as being a designer and 
global importer of equipment for construction and 
related industries, primarily focused on the repair and 
maintenance sector. The company has a reputation 
for creating innovative product solutions under 
the brand names of Scruffs, Van Vault, Defender, 
Rhino and U-GO. BPT’s customers include tool hire, 
builders’ merchants, electrical wholesalers and  
tool retailers. 
*  Operating profit prior to amortisation of acquired intangibles  
£1.4m (2009: £1.5m) and redundancy costs £1.0m (2009: £0.1m)
www.buckandhickman.com •	
www.birchwoodpricetools.com •	
