 6 7 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  6 7 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Business Review
Chief Executive’s Statement
Q: Which are the new markets 
you have entered into?
A: We have entered into the 
drainage, renewables, spares 
markets and water industry.
Q: Can you explain the 
resilience of the Group 
compared to the industry?
A: Our revenue is primarily 
based on repair and 
maintenance with limited 
exposure to new build and 
government spend.
Q: How will you counter 
the expected downturn in 
government spend?
A: The exposure has been 
assessed and new markets 
entered to off set the potential 
downturn in spend.
Q: How does your latest 
acquisition fit in?
A: UGS extends our above ground 
drainage offer to below ground. 
UGS, an underground specialist 
business, offers BSS considerable 
scope for growth by providing 
an opportunity to expand both 
the product range and national 
coverage. 
Q: How many branches do you 
plan to open in the coming year?
A: We have opened 18 branches 
during the year and plan to  
open a similar number in the 
coming year.
Introduction
BSS has delivered sector leading results with 
revenue growth and earnings resilience despite 
the toughest year for the economy in more 
than 70 years.
The business has demonstrated its ability 
to ‘navigate the icebergs’, handling well the 
short term tactical issues, whilst remaining 
strategically strong.
The teams within the business have shown 
true strength of character, maintaining a 
positive attitude whilst having to remain  
flexible in some cases redeploying or  
reducing manpower.
The culture within the Group is a key 
component as we continue to identify new 
growth opportunities in adjacent markets whilst 
at the same time recruiting new customers and 
winning new contracts in our core businesses.
The Group is in good shape with a strong 
balance sheet and resilient revenue that 
is primarily driven by essential repair and 
maintenance activity. Revenue has held up 
well throughout the financial year as BSS 
has absorbed the worst of the recession and 
returned to growth in the fourth quarter of the 
financial year. 2009/10 has been a busy year 
for the Group: we have repositioned resources 
and reduced our cost base whilst continuing to 
invest to support a number of organic growth 
initiatives. T wo new businesses were acquired, 
DHS and UGS, and they offer tremendous 
growth potential in new markets.
The resilience of underlying revenue has been 
partly due to a keen focus on keeping close 
to our customers, serving their needs and 
recognising the pressures they faced in the 
recessionary market of 2009. Being flexible to 
changing customer requirements has been key 
to our success.
New revenue streams have taken root 
and gross margin has been supported by 
the benefits of a direct sourcing capability 
acquired with Birchwood Products in 2008. 
The leverage that Birchwood has provided in 
this area has been essential to us remaining 
competitive. Costs have been reduced as 
the business has met the challenges of a 
contracting market. Like for like employee 
numbers have been reduced by 5% as market 
circumstances have been re-assessed.
The Group remains well funded with the 
capacity, flexibility and longevity of funding 
needed to take advantage of any development 
opportunities that may arise in the near term. 
With net debt of £85.3m at year end  
(2009: £86.0m), the Group remains well 
positioned with available funding of £127m 
above year end debt. 
In conversation  
with Gavin Slark 6 7 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  6 7 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Strategy
Despite the recession in the wider economy 
throughout most of 2009 our strategy has 
remained unchanged; we continue to drive 
for profitable, cash generative organic 
growth in the existing businesses and 
continue to look for opportunities in adjacent 
markets where we have knowledge and 
expertise and where we believe we can add 
value. The business remains resilient as a 
specialist distributor with revenue primarily 
driven by R & M activity much of which 
is non-discretionary. Our strategic focus 
remains on four core elements: 
Consistently delivering excellent  •	
customer service 
Strong leadership and sensible  •	
business practices 
Profitable organic growth and value •	
enhancing acquisitions 
A results driven culture •	
The challenge throughout the last year has 
been to reposition BSS during a period 
of contracting markets and competitive 
pressures, to scale down resource, to 
change the mix of skills in the business 
in support of the drive into new revenue 
streams in anticipation of further change in 
the marketplace.
Gavin Slark
Group Chief Executive
The BSS Group’s Strategy 
Key Strategies:
Drive for profitable, cash generative organic growth •	
through superior service
Continue to look for opportunities in adjacent markets •	
where we have knowledge and expertise and where 
we believe we can add value
Outlook:
We are confident that 2010/1 1 will be a better year  •	
for the Group
The increase in the final dividend of 10% is •	
reflective of that confidence 8 9 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  8 9 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
BSS is evolving at pace. There is a sense of 
urgency within the Company to reshape the 
Group to be more flexible and to recognise 
the changing needs of our customers to 
secure new market opportunities and to 
acknowledge that beyond the general 
election public finances will be tighter. 
Government funded capital expenditure 
represents about 10% of Group revenue  
but we continue to seek new growth from  
other sources and sectors that will provide 
attractive revenue opportunities that should 
more than offset the anticipated reduction  
in pubic sector investment.
New employees have joined the Group 
in the last year with skills, knowledge and 
customer relationships geared to delivering 
new revenue streams. Spares, renewables 
drainage and water generated revenue of 
£54m, year on year growth of 76%. Further 
upside in new revenue streams is targeted. 
Results
New revenue contributed to total revenue 
growth of £11.8m (0.9%) to £1,352.4m  
(2009: £1,340.6m). Group revenue in the 
second half was up 5.5% on an equivalent 
trading day basis with LFL revenue up 1.8% 
(against a 6.8% decline in the first half). 
Revenue performance in all Divisions has 
improved as the year progressed, with the 
Domestic Division benefiting from early cycle 
recovery in the broader economy. Core 
repair and maintenance revenue remained 
resilient throughout the financial year despite 
the level of change in the business and a 
severe recession throughout most of 2009. 
LFL growth in quarter four of the financial 
year was 6.6% against a 2.6% LFL decline in 
quarter three, with clear signs of recovery in 
all three divisions.
Gross margin reduced to 21.2% of revenue 
(2009: 22.9%) reflecting competitive market 
conditions and mix dilution, as relatively 
lower margin businesses outperformed. 
Business Review
Competitive pressures have been intense 
throughout the year, though there have been 
signs of stability in recent months with price 
inflation feeding through on copper and 
steel. Stronger contract sales and excellent 
performance from F & P Wholesale (‘F & P’) 
have contributed to overall margin dilution.
Gross margin recovery in 2010/11 is a key 
objective and we remain confident that 
progress can be made as the broaded 
economy improves.
The costs to sales ratio decreased to 
17.5% (2009: 18.0%), with like for like 
costs down 5.6% in the year. As a result of 
action taken, annualised costs have been 
reduced by £13.4m. Operating margin, 
before exceptional costs and amortisation of 
intangibles, was 4.07% (2009: 5.06%) with 
the reduction in gross margin partly offset 
by a reduction in the costs to sales ratio. 
Productivity continues to improve with sales 
per employee up +3% (2009: +3%) with 
investment in infrastructure and systems 
supporting the improvement achieved.
Adjusted operating profit before amortisation 
of acquired intangibles and exceptional 
charges decreased by £12.8m (19%) to 
£55.0m (2009: £67.8m).
New sectors, new markets and new 
customers have been targeted and the 
business recognised to improve focus and 
deliver growth. The acquisition of DHS 
and UGS open up new growth potential 
for BSS and we believe we have bought 
well. DHS achieved a 35% ROCE in its 
first full year of Group ownership and UGS, 
acquired on 5 February 2010, for £5.2m, 
provides the Group with a major player in 
the underground drainage market. Both 
companies provide BSS with significant 
new growth potential in markets that have 
robust dynamics. 
“ We are pleased with the 
performance of the new  
revenue streams. 
New sectors, new markets and 
new customers have been 
targeted and the business 
reorganised to improve focus 
and deliver growth.” 8 9 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  8 9 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Five Reasons to Invest
1. Resilient revenue
Demand for our products is primarily driven by repair and maintenance (‘R & M’) activity, 
much of which is considered essential. In particular, boiler and radiator markets and 
associated products, which account for a large proportion of our sales, remain robust. 
This non-discretionary spend in the heating market has proven to be resilient throughout 
the recession.
2. Underlying demand for our product increasing
We anticipate that underlying demand for product used to repair, maintain and improve 
existing facilities will increase driven by UK population growth and increased population 
density. The need to maintain existing facilities and an increased requirement for new 
homes which underpin revenue growth. 
3. Price inelasticity 
Our products are required to undertake essential repair and maintenance. We recognise 
the influence of competitive market conditions and remaining price competitive but the 
underlying demand for our product is primarily price inelastic.
4. A robust business model 
Our trade customers have a need for what we do and this need will remain. We add 
value through: consolidation of product; delivery to point of use; adapting our offer to 
meet customer need; providing availability; product knowledge and through leveraging 
procurement and sourcing. The business model underpinning our trade remains robust.
5. New revenue streams
We are growing revenue in segments of the market where we have minimal penetration 
and where the growth dynamics are strong. These markets include: spares, renewables, 
drainage and meeting the needs of the water industry.
