 4 5 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  4 5 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Gavin Slark Peter Warry
Group Chief Executive Chairman 4 5 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  4 5 The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010  
Gavin Slark Peter Warry
Group Chief Executive Chairman
Profit before tax at £44.2m (2009: £57.8m) 
was less than we would have liked but an 
excellent outcome compared to our industry 
peers in a period that has seen many stop 
paying dividends and undertake rights issues 
to repair their balance sheets. We actually 
increased sales over the year as we have 
each year throughout this recession and 
our market share has grown significantly. 
Domestic heating and plumbing is benefiting 
from early cycle recovery with strong quarter 
four performance, and is well positioned 
to grow further. The Domestic Division 
has become a major force in the industry 
from small beginnings some 10 years ago. 
During this period our Industrial Division has 
maintained its number one market position 
and has sustained a healthy operating margin. 
Our newer Specialist Division, although 
remaining profitable, has had a tougher time 
but is well placed with a number of initiatives 
that will increase revenue.
The year has seen the successful 
development of our above ground drainage 
centres in the Industrial Division and in 
February 2010 the acquisition of UGS to 
spearhead our development into below 
ground drainage. We are confident that 
these product extensions will replicate the 
success of our move into the ‘Big Pipe’ 
facility in Coventry a couple of years ago. 
In the Domestic Division the move into 
spares distribution through the acquisition 
of DHS in April 2009 has exceeded our 
profit expectations and there is considerable 
scope to grow this offering further. During 
2010 we have targeted a number of 
adjacent markets where we can develop 
profitable businesses leveraging existing 
knowledge and expertise in the Group. 
These growth opportunities utilise BSS’ 
proven skills in plumbing and heating 
distribution enabling us to reach a broader 
group of trade customers.
During the economic downturn we have 
not had the need to close a single branch 
through poor performance and during 
the year we opened a further 18 new 
branches. The Group has remained strongly 
cash generative and is conservatively 
financed with year end net debt of £85.3m 
(2009: £86.0m) after investment of £22m. 
In recognition of this strong financial 
position and the positive trends in revenue 
and earnings, the Board is pleased to 
recommend a final dividend of 6.09p per 
share (2009: 5.54p) which represents a 10% 
increase on last year.
Of course none of this would be possible 
without the effort and commitment of the 
best team in the industry, from trade counter 
to boardroom, and I would like to thank 
them all for another year of exceptional 
performance. In December 2009, we were 
delighted to announce the appointment 
of Frank Elkins, Managing Director of BSS 
Industrial to the Board.
It is difficult for companies to forecast when 
economists and politicians cannot agree 
about the economic outlook. However, the 
Group has already demonstrated its ability to 
outperform in an adverse market and, on the 
back of the recent small economic upturn, 
Group sales for the latest three month period 
(February, March and April) are 11.0% like 
for like up on the same period last year, 
This excellent result gives support to the 
Board’s belief that as the economic situation 
improves the Group’s focus on growth will 
enable it to disproportionately outperform 
any rising market.
Peter Warry
Chairman
25 May 2010
Sector leading results –  
final dividend increased 
by 10% – strong start  
to 2010/11  
BSS has had a successful year . The Group has navigated its way 
through the most challenging economic conditions experienced 
for many years to deliver revenue growth, resilient earnings 
performance and strong cash flow.
Overview
Chairman’s Statement
