 8 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s review
‘W e have focused our investment in the areas
where there is greatest demand for innovative
products: ageing and neuroscience therapeutics,
biopharmaceuticals, cancer treatments,
and semiconductor technologies including
optoelectronics and nanotechnology . ’
further technical development up to certain
limits. Investment in technical development
is designed to generate further proof of
principle and to create a commercialisation
package, which is then used to attract
licensees or external investors. This year we
authorised twenty-four new development
projects, with a combined financial
commitment of £2.8 million.
BTG adds value to a technology by
investing in development, by securing
strong intellectual property protection and
by applying its commercial skills to
determine the optimum routes to market.
The first tangible return on investment and
demonstration of the value we have created
is usually when the technology is licensed
to an established company . It then
completes further technical development
and takes the finished product to market.
This year we signed fifteen new licence
agreements, nine of which contributed
revenues during the period.
Portfolio review
Following the refocusing of our business,
we carried out a detailed review of our
technology portfolio, assessing each
technology , its associated intellectual
property and any existing licence
agreements. T echnologies that were no
longer in a core focus area and that would
require significant further investment prior
to commercialisation have in most cases
been returned to the sources. Those in
which we have already made significant
investment and are in, or close to, the
business unit on commercialisation. 
A ventures team works with the business
units when an opportunity is best addressed
through a start-up route, and it also seeks
ventures opportunities with third party
investors and entrepreneurs.
Improved processes
During the year we streamlined our
operating processes and created a new
Operational Leadership T eam responsible
for the performance of the technology
portfolio. The changes have improved both
our flexibility to respond quickly to new
opportunities and our ability to monitor the
progress of technologies to facilitate go/no
go decisions at appropriate milestones.
A new technology is only accepted into 
the portfolio if it meets strict criteria,
which are based around technical feasibility ,
patentability , the competitive landscape, the
market opportunity , the BTG “value add”
and the investment required to create value.
We screen about twenty times more
technologies than we accept and we have,
through improving our processes,
substantially reduced the time it takes to
screen an opportunity . This is important
since the technology source, usually a
university or company , needs to know 
as soon as possible whether we wish to
acquire it or not. During the year, we
acquired thirty-four new technologies.
Once accepted, for each technology 
we prepare a business plan and, where
appropriate, a technical development plan.
T eams have the authority to invest in
The Chief Executive Officer’s review has
described why and how we have focused
our business to concentrate our investments
on those technology sectors that we believe
offer the greatest opportunities for value
creation. This review describes how we are
structured to capture value in each of the
areas. It also outlines the progress we have
made during the past year, and highlights
some of the technology development and
commercialisation projects under way that
will drive the business towards profitability .
Business focus
BTG has four business units focused
respectively on ageing and neuroscience,
biopharmaceuticals, oncology ,
semiconductor technologies including
optoelectronics and nanotechnology , and 
a fifth team, strategic business development,
which seeks to exploit opportunities that
may fall outside the targeted areas.
The business teams have seven to nine
members, who together have appropriate
technical and scientific expertise as well as
strong commercial experience. Each team
acquires, develops and commercialises
technologies in its own area, and each has
specific budgets and operating targets.
The teams draw on the expertise of
operating support units, including patents,
legal and finance, all of which play an
integral role in the acquisition,
development and commercialisation of
technologies. A dedicated licensing support
and assertion team works with each 9 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
Rights to a technology that could produce insulin
therapies with a more selective action on the liver
were licensed to a major pharmaceutical company.
commercialisation phase are being
progressed on a case by case basis. Similarly ,
we have rationalised the patent estates and
licence agreements associated with our
technology portfolio.
The portfolio currently contains in excess
of 250 technologies, protected by over
4,000 patents and patent applications with
more than 220 licence agreements in place.
Around two-thirds of technologies are
from life sciences sectors, one-third from
physical sciences areas.
Each focus area is described in this review ,
together with examples of technologies
that have progressed during the year, and 
of others that we anticipate will contribute
to our revenue growth over the coming
few years. 
Ageing and neuroscience
The focus of the ageing and neuroscience
team is on finding, developing and
commercialising pharmaceutical assets 
in the therapeutic areas of pain,
neurodegeneration including Alzheimer's
disease and multiple sclerosis, and obesity .
These are all areas of high unmet medical
need. There is a big demand for new
differentiated products in these areas.
In the long term the team's aim is to build
a high-value, risk-balanced pipeline of
technologies that fulfils pharmaceutical
customer needs for new medicines in these
therapeutic areas. With the industry
increasingly willing to make significant
upfront payments and pay higher royalty
rates for technologies supported by clinical
data, the team is identifying later-stage
opportunities with the goal of putting at
least one compound into clinical
development this year. 
In terms of commercial success this year,
rights to an insulin-based technology ,
acquired from King's College, London, and
Deutsches W ollforschungsinstitut an der
RWTH Aachen E.V ., Germany , were
licensed to a major pharmaceutical
company . This technology could deliver
new insulin therapies with a more selective
action on the liver - a concept that has
value for insulin therapy in both type I 
and type II diabetes.
On the development front, good progress
has been made in the pain portfolio with
three technologies from Virginia
Commonwealth University now ready to
transition to the commercialisation stage.
One of these, a novel series of neuronal
nicotinic receptor agonists has the
potential to address important market
needs as a clinically useful analgesic
particularly for neuropathic pain
applications. Other technologies currently
in commercialisation include a phase II
potent cholesterol lowering agent, an
agent for the treatment and prophylaxis 
of acute myocardial infarction and stroke,
and novel monoamines re-uptake
inhibitors for multiple CNS indications.
