 4 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
Chairman’s statement
‘BTG is a clear world leader in technology
commercialisation. By increasing our focus and
reducing our cost base, we are on a solid footing
to become a sustainable, profitable business. ’
of £36.2 million (£22.6 million the
previous year). The Board does not
recommend payment of a dividend for 
the year.
As stated last year, I will not stand for 
re-election at the Annual General Meeting
on 23 July 2003. I am delighted to report
that Sir Brian Fender, currently Senior
Independent Director, will be appointed
Chairman. In addition, Mrs Consuelo
Brooke, who joined the Board 12 months
ago, will be appointed Senior Independent
Director. Mrs Brooke and Dr William
Jenkins, who also joined the Board this
year, have already contributed significantly
to the Company’s development.
I am grateful to my colleagues past and
present on the Board, and to all of BTG’s
former and current employees, for their
contributions to making this business 
a clear world leader in technology
commercialisation. The planned
expansion of BTG’s business over the 
past years has of necessity been curtailed
by the global downturn. Nonetheless,
I firmly believe that we have continued to
build value in the business. This, together
with the recent changes we have made 
to increase our focus and reduce our 
cost base, places us on a solid footing to
become a sustainable, profitable business.
Dr Jack Leonard
Chairman
from established products, and the down-
payments and royalties we anticipate from
technologies we expect to commercialise
in the near future. Although less
predictable, we also expect to earn
revenues from other new business
opportunities and technologies that are
not yet in the commercialisation phase.
Thus, even in this harsher economic
climate, we are able to reconfirm our
objective of achieving profitability by
2006, excluding any impact from
Provensis Ltd.
Provensis currently represents both 
our biggest investment and greatest
opportunity. We are very encouraged by
the significant progress made this year,
described in detail in the Chief Executive
Officer’s review.
Turnover for the year of £31.5 million
was slightly ahead of the previous year.
However, total revenues, in which we
include equity realisations, were 
£1.6 million lower than in the previous
year when we realised £2.3 million 
profit from the sale of an equity stake.
Consequently, net revenues of 
£17.8 million were £2.1 million less than
the previous year. Investment in Provensis
development increased by £1.0 million to 
£13.6 million, and investment in other
technology development almost doubled
to £1.9 million this year compared 
with £1.0 million the previous year.
Administrative costs, including a
restructuring cost of £1.9 million, were
slightly higher at £33.0 million. These,
together with a higher than normal
patent amortisation charge following
December’s reorganisation, less net interest
receivable and a write-down of equity
investments, resulted in a loss before tax 
BTG’s business has been evolving during
a period of significant change in the
global economic and political climates.
The impact of these changes has been 
felt strongly in the high tech and biotech
sectors, where many established
companies are struggling to grow and
emerging companies are focused on
surviving the downturn. 
As we have said previously, this presents us
with as many opportunities as challenges.
Our objective over the past year has been
to balance the likelihood of having to ride
out tough economic conditions over the
next few years, while continuing to invest
in major opportunities for creating future
value. We have therefore restructured our
business to concentrate our investment
activities on a smaller number of high-
value technology sectors. This has also
enabled us to reduce our cost base, which
is expected to fall by approximately 
£6.0 million this year.
Our business model provides reasonable
visibility for a significant proportion of
the revenues we expect to generate over
the medium term. These include the
recurring royalty streams already flowing
