 5 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review
‘The success of BTG’s business depends 
on the performance of the technology 
portfolio as a whole. W e anticipate further
significant operational and financial 
progress this year. ’
common commercialisation routes are
licensing the technology to an established
industry player, and creating a venture that
we will fund initially prior to attracting
third party investment.
Our business model is characterised by
investment in the early years with value
generation commencing from three to five
years or even more. W e create value in the
intervening period by securing strong
intellectual property protection, developing
the technology and determining the
optimum route for realising value. W e then
use our commercial skills to secure licences
or create ventures. Most technologies will
not make it all the way through, either
because they do not perform as anticipated
or because the market opportunity
diminishes. Those that do make it must
therefore generate sufficient returns to pay
for the failures (although some individual
technologies that fail still do make money
for BTG from down-payments and
milestone payments).
The confidence to pursue our strategy
stems from three drivers. Firstly ,
universities and companies more than ever
need to create commercial returns from
their research outputs. The availability to
us of key technologies has not abated.
Secondly , product innovation will continue
to drive markets and economic growth.
Finally , BTG’s role in this expanding
market is bridging this gap, providing the
patent, technical and commercial platforms
for transforming scientific and technical
ideas into market-leading products. W e
have the capabilities, resources and proven
track record in commercialising
technologies to take advantage of this
increased market opportunity .
What has changed is our technology focus,
driven by changes in the marketplace.
In the first half of the year, we conducted 
a detailed review of our business that
resulted in a significant restructuring of
our operations. W e made these changes 
to make sure that we can deliver on our
commitment to shareholders to create a
profitable, growing technology
commercialisation business over the
medium term. In this review I describe
the progress we are making, with reference
to the key areas that we addressed in our
business review . I then provide an update
on Provensis.
Business strategy
Our central strategy is to create a
sustainable, profitable business by
acquiring, developing and commercialising
important life and physical science
technologies that will shape tomorrow’s
markets. This has not changed.
We are building a broad, diversified
portfolio of technologies, to which we
continually add promising new
technologies. W e move these forward by
securing strong intellectual property
protection, by investing where appropriate
in developing the technology , and by
selecting the optimal route for
commercialisation. The two most
Our business is structured around five areas: ageing
and neuroscience; biopharmaceuticals; oncology;
semiconductors; and IP-driven opportunities outside
the four target areas.
BTG’s marketplace
In October 2000, we raised £122 million
to expand the business so that we could
address more opportunities across a broad
range of technology sectors. At that time,
most sectors were growing, there was
significant investment flowing into
established and new companies, and there
was strong competition in industry to gain
access to early stage technologies.
Since then, there has been turmoil in the
world’s economies. This has affected many
of the market sectors in which we operate,
but the impact has not been uniform and
demand in some sectors, especially in life
sciences, remains strong.
We have a healthy flow of new
technologies from universities and
companies seeking to extract value from
their assets. W e have welcomed many new
clients during the past year, including
Georgetown University Medical Center
and W ashington University in St Louis in
the US, and the University of Greenwich
in the UK. 
In some high tech areas, such as telecoms
and IT , investment in new product
development has decreased significantly .
The near-term prospects for BTG realising
value from technologies addressing these
markets have also reduced. W e have been
unable to commercialise some
technologies, or to generate the value we
once thought possible from others. 
We believe there will be a recovery in
many sectors, but this will be a gradual
process that takes place over several years.
Increased focus
We have been realistic and balanced the
prospects for global recovery in the near
term with our available resources. W e have 6 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer’s review (continued)
refocused the business to concentrate our
investments on the highest-value
technology sectors and opportunities. W e
have withdrawn completely from some
areas where we believe the long-term
economic prospects are poor. In doing so,
we may miss out on some opportunities,
but we believe the strategy we are
following is appropriate for the market
conditions in which we are operating.
We have structured our technology
investments around five business 
areas: ageing and neuroscience;
biopharmaceuticals; oncology;
semiconductor technology, including
optoelectronics and nanotechnology;
and an area we call strategic business
development. The latter aims to exploit
substantial IP-driven commercial
opportunities that fall outside the four
targeted areas. The Chief Operating
Officer’s review describes these areas
in detail.
A regrettable but inevitable consequence
of increasing our focus was a reduction in
our people of about 30%, which was
completed in December. Ceasing
investment in certain technology sectors
and reducing our headcount will yield
savings of about £6.0 million per annum
from the financial year ending in March
2004. In making these changes, we have
assumed that the current economic climate
will continue for another two to three
years. W e will continue to monitor both
our own operating performance and the
general economic outlook. W e have the
flexibility to adapt our operations should
circumstances change.
People and capabilities
In July we created an Operational
Leadership T eam chaired by our Chief
Operating Officer, Anthony Lando. This
team is responsible for delivering the
business results agreed with BTG’s Board
and Executive Committee.
We have a strong management team and
highly capable and committed employees.
Even in these adverse times we are
stepping up our commitment to providing
appropriate training and development. 
This year we have also introduced a new
“balanced scorecard” compensation plan
for all employees to provide the strongest
possible consistency between the activities
and goals of individuals, teams, the
Company and shareholders.
Provensis
The Provensis team made significant
progress during the past year as the focus
for VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam has shifted
to completion of trials, regulatory filings
and commercialisation.
Clinical update
The final patient in the European Phase III
trial was treated in January , and over half of
the 439 patients treated with VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam have now completed their
extensive one-year follow-up. A further
223 patients were treated with surgery or
alternative sclerotherapy .
Data collection and consolidation are
ongoing, and the final study report is due
later in the year followed shortly by
publication of efficacy and safety data. 
Preliminary indications are that the 
results of treatment with VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam have lived up to expectations
and are in line with those observed in the
European open label and Phase II studies.
In the US, the first cohort of twenty
patients in the Phase II trial has been
treated and data submitted to the Food
and Drug Administration for review.
Manufacturing
Agreements are now in place covering
each stage of the manufacturing process
and the supply of VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam for clinical trials and
commercial launch.
The product is an integrated bi-can unit
that, at the point of use, produces a sterile
microfoam containing polidocanol. Croda
Chemicals plc will manufacture the
polidocanol in accordance with cGMP
under an exclusive supply agreement;
the plant is being prepared for regulatory
inspection. Bi-can components have 
been sourced from a range of established
suppliers, for assembly and manufacture 
of the finished product by CP
Pharmaceuticals Ltd on their Wrexham
site. CP Pharmaceuticals has MHRA and
FDA approval for the manufacture of a
wide range of products including sterile
dosage forms for the global market.
A pilot scale plant providing materials for
clinical trials and stability studies is already
operational at this site. W orking with CP
Pharmaceuticals and design consultants,
Jacobs Engineering Ltd, we have
commenced construction of a new
manufacturing facility at the Wrexham site
BTG’s corporate road map
National Research
Development
Corporation
(NRDC) founded 
in 1948
Torotrak, developing an infinitely
variable transmission for cars and
lorries, demerged in 1998
NRDC merges with National
Enterprise Board in 1981 to
create British T echnology Group
Commercialisation of the
cephalosporin antibiotics,
alternatives to penicillin,
and Pyrethrin, the first
environmentally friendly insectide
The cholesterol
assay, a new method
of testing blood
cholesterol levels is
commercialised 
First MRI licences granted
US and European regulatory
approval for Factor IX, a
recombinant treatment for the
bleeding disorder haemophilia B
Provensis Ltd
formed to develop
VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam as a
new treatment for
varicose veins
1940 1950 1960 1970 1980 1990
Following privatisation 
in 1992, the Company lists on
the London Stock Exchange
in 1995 as BTG plc 7 BTG plc  Annual report and accounts 2003
for the supply of commercial product. This
facility will be owned by Provensis and
operated by CP Pharmaceuticals, who will
also provide full support services. 
Initially , a small-scale production line will
be established within the new facility to
support early product launches. This can
be expanded rapidly as the product
becomes established and demand increases,
thus providing flexibility and phasing of
the manufacturing investment over a
number of years. An investment of up to
£7.4 million will be made this year to
construct the outer shell and small-scale
production line.
Market and commercial options
The commercial success of VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam will be driven by the strength
of the regulatory package, backed up by a
strong brand and IP position, and extensive
technical and commercial know-how .
Recent market research with physicians
and consumers has better defined the
target audience and provided an increased
understanding of the prevalence and
demographics of varicose veins. With its
large and ageing population, high
disposable income, familiarity with self-pay
and interest in new treatment options, the
US will account for a majority share of the
value of VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam.
Plans to develop a strong brand position 
in the US and other markets are well
advanced. The IP portfolio is being
developed, with additional patents and
patent applications already granted, filed 
and planned to add to the original patent
assigned to BTG by the inventor of the
technique that is the basis of VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam. The original patent is being
challenged in Germany , where the Court of
First Instance ruled it invalid. BTG believes
this decision was wrong and is appealing
against it, even though we believe the loss 
of this patent would have no impact on 
the commercial prospects for the product.
The decision only has effect in Germany ,
and the patent remains in force there
pending the outcome of the two-to-three
year appeals process.
We are currently considering
commercialisation options which
include the licence to, or joint venture
with, an established healthcare company.
With only around 1,000 specialist vein
clinics in the US, however, another option
is for Provensis to bring the product to
market itself with contracted support.
Data from the European Phase III trial
and additional market research studies,
under way since the start of the year, will
be central to the decision as to which
option provides the best risk-reward
profile. It is expected that, in association
with the Provensis Board, the Board of
BTG will decide upon the preferred
commercialisation option during the
current financial year.
Management
Provensis has its own Board of experienced
executive and independent Directors,
chaired by Dr John Preston. During the
past year, as the focus has shifted from
technical and clinical development to the
completion of trials, regulatory filings and
commercialisation, the management team
has also been changed and strengthened.
Dr Frank Armstrong, formerly with
ICI/Zeneca Pharmaceuticals and Bayer
AG,has been appointed Chief Executive
Officer and Director of Provensis. W e
thank Dr Paul Harper, former CEO, for
his major contribution during the
development period for Provensis. In
addition, Provensis has appointed a new
Chief Financial Officer and new VPs of
Marketing and Medical and Regulatory
Affairs. This team is wholly focused on
market launches in the EU in 2005 and
the US in 2006.
Outlook
As valuable as we believe the
VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam product to be,
the success of BTG’s business depends
upon the performance of the technology
portfolio as a whole. This year, for
example, we expect revenue growth to
result from newer products such as
Campath
®
, and from technologies we
expect to licence or otherwise
commercialise during the year. W e
anticipate further significant operational
and financial progress in the coming year.
Ian Harvey
Chief Executive Officer
Since its foundation in 1948 by the UK government, BTG has commercialised many important
innovations in the life and physical sciences. Originally, all of our technologies came from UK
universities. T oday, half come from industry, and roughly a third each comes from the UK, the rest 
of Europe and North America. W e have focused our investment in five key technology areas, and 
we are working towards our target of profitability by 2006, with sustainable growth beyond.
BTG is targeting a return
to profitability by 2006, and
sustainable growth beyond
BTG reports first 
profit since becoming 
a public company
Rights Issues raises 
£122.0 million to 
expand the business
Target for first European
launch of VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam
VARISOLVE
®
Microfoam
completes European
Phase III trial
Campath
®
(alemtuzumab), the
first humanised monoclonal
antibody , approved as a
treatment for chronic
lymphocytic leukaemia and
launched in the US and Europe
Responding to changes in the
economy and its marketplace,
BTG focuses its business on
five core areas to invest
carefully and control costs
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006
