 04 BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S REVIEW
A NEW STRATEGY
A VISION FOR GROWTH
Our goal is for BTG to deliver strong growth for shareholders 
by being a leader in the development and commercialisation of
pharmaceuticals and other medical technologies. This evolution 
of strategy follows a thorough analysis of our past performance,
our strengths and weaknesses, the potential of our existing
portfolio and the market opportunities available to us.
The clear objective of the strategic review is to position BTG
for profitability and sustainable growth. To deliver sustainable
growth, we have to balance short- and long-term returns. So
whilst we have acted decisively to reduce ongoing costs by
about £5 million per annum, we recognise that future growth
will depend on continued investment, targeted at those areas
that have the potential to deliver the greatest returns.
We anticipate that, with additional savings of around £1.5
million as we fully implement our new strategy, our fixed costs
will be covered by recurring royalty revenues. We intend that,
in the near term, the direct investments we make in acquiring
and developing pharmaceuticals and other medical
technologies will be covered by non-recurring revenues from
new licence agreements, milestones and sales of patent rights
and equity holdings.
In the longer term, we anticipate that our revenues will exceed
costs and investments by an increasing margin. We can then
choose how to use the excess, striking the right balance
between re-investing profits for further growth and providing
dividends to shareholders.
INCREASED INVESTMENT FOCUS
BTG has operated four intellectual property (IP) commercialisation
models:
> Licensing life and physical science technologies to 
companies which complete development and market the
resulting products
> Asserting life and physical science technology patents
> Exploiting our IP through company creation, and
participation in other ventures, e.g. funds and investment 
in companies where we do not own the IP
> IP services, e.g. royalty auditing for third parties and IP mining.
In future, we will intensify our focus on acquiring, developing
and commercialising pharmaceuticals and other medical
technologies (such as cancer adjuvants and products for
supportive care) in our current areas of expertise in oncology,
ageing and neuroscience and drug repositioning. We will also
continue to seek opportunities in the medical devices sector. 
Each year we plan to acquire on average six new projects for
development and commercialisation. We aim to increase the
number of projects in active development at any one time 
from seven at present to fifteen over a four-year period. Direct
investment in preclinical and clinical development programmes
is anticipated to increase from its current level of around £5
million per year (excluding Varisolve
®
development) to around
£10 million per year within four years. Actual amounts invested
will, however, be commensurate with revenues earned.
DR LOUISE MAKIN
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts  05
Investing in development is intended to increase the value of the
pharmaceutical or medical technology by demonstrating proof of
concept. Typically, for a New Chemical Entity (NCE) we will take
development up to Phase II clinical studies, where proof of
concept is established in patients with the target disease. In drug
repositioning, which can be a new formulation of an existing
product, a new indication for a drug, or the combination of two
approved pharmaceuticals to treat a condition for which neither
is separately approved, we will follow a similar strategy but the
type of development required varies. 
Proof of concept in man is recognised in the industry as one 
of the main inflexion points in terms of the asset value. By
licensing the NCE or repositioned drug at this stage to another
company, we seek to capture this sharp increase in value and
actively manage the risk/reward balance in the portfolio.
We usually earn signature fees when we license the
pharmaceutical or medical technology, milestone payments as
progress is made, and royalties when our licensees successfully
launch products. Alternatively, where appropriate, we will
create a company to undertake initial development prior to
commercialisation, and then seek to realise value through our
equity holding in the company as its business progresses.
SUCCESS FACTORS
Our new strategic focus builds on BTG’s strong record in
commercialising medical innovations. Inventions we have
commercialised include Magnetic Resonance Imaging, the
Oxford Knee, the Two-part hip cup, Factor IX for haemophilia B
and Campath
®
for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.
Investments made over the past five years have resulted 
in a promising pipeline of pharmaceuticals and medical
technologies, some of which are currently under development
by BTG and others of which have been licensed to
pharmaceutical companies to complete development. 
A selection is shown on pages 8 to 11.
This track record has resulted in a growing revenue stream from
royalties on launched products. In the year to 31 March 2005,
these royalties grew by more than 12% to £31.3 million
(excluding the receipt of £12 million from Acambis in 2004).
Pharmaceuticals and other medical technologies accounted for
more than 90% of these revenues. This substantial, increasing
and dependable revenue stream enables continued investment
in the pipeline to create future value.
Having access to early-stage pharmaceuticals and other medical
technologies invented by others is critical to our success. 
We have established strong global networks with pharmaceutical
and biotechnology companies, research institutions and
universities from which we source pharmaceuticals and other
medical innovations. We intend to expand these networks. 
At the same time, we are improving our offering to the sources.
Having a solid revenue stream that enables us to conduct
preclinical and clinical development programmes is a key
differentiator for BTG that is very attractive to our sources.
Increasing our investment also allows greater flexibility in the
commercial terms we reach with sources and licensees.
“BTG HAS MANY CORE STRENGTHS:
INCREASING RECURRING REVENUE
STREAMS, A STRONG PIPELINE OF
NOVEL MEDICAL INNOVATIONS…
AND HIGHLY SKILLED EMPLOYEES.” 06 BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts
In addition to our revenue streams, growing pipeline and global
networks, we have the human capital resources to make this
strategy successful. World-class IP skills blend with technical and
commercial expertise to enable us to select the most promising
assets for development. We employ highly skilled personnel 
from the pharmaceutical industry with development, project
management and commercialisation experience. This enables 
us to conduct “virtual” development programmes very efficiently,
using our established network of external development partners.
THE MARKET OPPORTUNITY
Pharmaceuticals and other medical products generate hundreds
of billions of dollars of revenues every year, and the industry
continues to grow. The drivers for growth are well understood.
Social factors such as an ageing population, a desire to remain
healthy and active in later years, and the availability of resources
(whether self-pay or funded by national governments) have led to
increased demand for innovative medical products. Meeting this
demand creates huge opportunities for the healthcare industries.
These underlying drivers also underpin the opportunity for
BTG, though other factors are important:
> Corporations, research institutes and universities are driven 
to demonstrate returns on their research expenditure. They
may be unwilling or unable to invest in the development
programmes needed to generate proof of concept from 
their invention, but they would like to realise some value.
Increasingly, they are receptive to partnerships with
companies such as BTG that will invest in development 
and commercialisation.
> There is a recognised “innovation gap” in the pharmaceutical
industry, where greatly increased research and development
expenditure has not generated the number of new products 
or revenue growth that were once predicted. Both large
multinationals and smaller, specialist healthcare companies
are actively looking to acquire novel assets with proof of
concept for later-stage development. BTG works with these
companies to understand the types of products and
therapeutic profiles they are seeking. This feeds into our
sourcing and development strategies.
Ultimately, most revenues are generated by product sales. 
So while we seek to recover our investment when we license 
a technology by receiving a signature fee and milestone
payments, the real value is generated from royalties on product
sales. Sourcing the right early-stage pharmaceutical and
medical technologies for development is thus a key
determinant of our future growth.
BTG has the skilled, experienced personnel and the global
networks within corporations and research institutions to access 
the most promising opportunities in our chosen therapy areas. 
We have the resources and industry knowledge to conduct
development projects that add value, and we have the project
management expertise to run them efficiently through our
established partner networks. We have the commercial skills 
to find the best licensees for each product, or to create
companies if that route would lead to greatest value.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
A NEW STRATEGY BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts  07
OUR CORE BUSINESS MODEL
BTG acquires rights to medical innovations from 
a global network of corporations, universities and
research institutes.
We fund and manage development programmes,
ensure strong IP protection and progress
commercialisation plans. We then license the
innovation to pharmaceutical or device companies,
or create a company to exploit it.
REALISING VALUE FROM THE CURRENT PORTFOLIO
We do not intend to invest further in building a physical
sciences portfolio based on licensing enabling technologies 
or asserting patents. However, there is significant value in the
current portfolio that we intend to extract.
For example, we are currently conducting separate patent
infringement litigations against Microsoft, Apple, Amazon.com 
and a number of other companies in relation to the Teleshuttle
and WebNav patent portfolios. We also have enabling
technologies such as Radio Frequency ID (RFID), where the
market opportunity is rapidly growing.
We are therefore maintaining core expertise in these areas and 
will fund as required ongoing litigation and other activities that
we believe will extract value. An experienced, specialist team
will manage these projects through to fruition.
We have an equity portfolio comprising more than 25 largely
unlisted investments, which we have built up primarily over the
past five to six years. These include funds, passive investments
and investments in companies which we helped to create and
have continued to support. We intend to realise value from
these investments, continuing to play an active role in around
10 key companies which have the best prospects.
We do not plan to make investments as a passive investor in
third-party companies or in partner funds going forward. We
will, however, retain our company creation expertise, which
resides within the ventures personnel and other business teams.
Out-licensing the pharmaceuticals and other medical
technologies at appropriate stages of development will be 
the most common commercialisation route, but there will be 
a number of cases where creating a company to develop and
commercialise an asset is the most appropriate route.
The provision of IP services, such as royalty auditing and
providing IP services to technology transfer offices, has been 
a small-scale activity for BTG. We will maintain this activity to
the extent that there is demand from key customers.
PROSPECTS
BTG has many core strengths: increasing recurring revenue
streams, a strong pipeline of novel medical innovations, global
networks and resources to expand the pipeline, a portfolio of
physical science technologies from which we can realise value,
and highly skilled employees.
Since joining BTG, my main goals have been to reset the 
cost base to a lower level, simplify the business and develop 
a strategy that will deliver both profitability and sustainable
growth. I believe the strategy we have announced will enable
us to create shareholder value by exploiting the tremendous
opportunities available to BTG.
CORPORATIONS
UNIVERSITIES/
INSTITUTIONS
COMMERCIALISE DEVELOP
PRECLINICAL/
CLINICAL
DEVELOPMENT
LICENCE
IP/COMMERCIAL
DEVELOPMENT
COMPANY
CREATION
DOWN- 
PAYMENTS
MILESTONES
ROYALTIES
EQUITY
REALISATIONS
ACQUIRE
