 02 BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
A YEAR OF CHANGE
POSITIONING FOR PROFITABILITY
During the past year there have been significant changes to 
the Group’s strategy, operations and personnel, aimed at driving
the business to profitability and providing the platform for
sustainable future growth.
Dr Louise Makin, who joined as Chief Executive Officer in
October 2004, has completed a comprehensive review of our
strategy. As a result, we will concentrate our resources on
acquiring, developing and commercialising pharmaceuticals and
other medical technologies. We will, however, maintain sufficient
capabilities to enable us to realise value from the existing
physical sciences portfolio.
In December 2004, we took further steps to decrease ongoing
costs by reducing the size of the technology portfolio and
introducing other efficiencies. While we regret the associated job
losses, the expected savings of almost £5 million per annum will
enable us to continue building our portfolio of pharmaceuticals
and other medical technologies. 
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Full details are provided in the Financial Review so here I will 
give the headline figures. Total revenues for the year of £42.7
million were £1.8 million higher than last year after deducting the
exceptional receipt of £12 million last year from Acambis plc. Net
revenues excluding that settlement were 6% higher at £26.3 million.
Investment in Provensis and Varisolve
®
development was 
28% lower at £11.5 million. Investment in developing other
technologies increased by 31% to £6.3 million. Administration
expenses included exceptional costs of £9.5 million relating to
the reorganisation and impairment provisions on our US and UK
office leases. Other operating expenses were higher this year
following the portfolio reductions and reflecting progress with 
a number of litigation cases.
The exceptional items referred to above, together with provisions
required against some equity investments, resulted in a loss
before tax of £34.3 million (2004: £22.8 million). At period end 
net funds were £34.4 million (2004: £66.3 million). The Directors
consider these resources to be sufficient to implement the
Group’s strategy. The Directors do not recommend payment 
of a dividend for the year.
BOARD CHANGES
In addition to the appointments of Louise Makin as Chief Executive
Officer and Alison Wood as a Non-executive Director, we are
delighted that Christine Soden is to succeed Rusi Kathoke as Chief
Financial Officer from 1 July 2005. Christine’s strong commercial
focus and life sciences industry experience will be of tremendous
value to BTG as we implement our new strategy. Rusi, who has
served BTG as Chief Financial Officer for almost 20 years and is
retiring, leaves the Board in July 2005. Sir George Radda, having
served six years as a Non-executive Director, does not intend to
stand for re-election at this year’s Annual General Meeting.
OUTLOOK
We have reduced costs and our recurring revenues are increasing.
Achieving profitability excluding the results of Provensis this year,
however, will hinge upon the completion of a few key new licence
agreements, and experience teaches us that it is difficult to predict
the exact timing and magnitude of revenues from such deals. 
With the new strategy, a strong leadership team and a 
smaller, highly capable workforce, we believe that BTG is well
positioned for the future. We thank our shareholders for their
continued support.
SIR BRIAN FENDER
CHAIRMAN BTG plc Annual Report & Accounts  03
FIVE-YEAR REVENUE ANALYSIS (£m)
01
02
03
04
05
010 2030405060
ROYALTIES
REVENUES FROM NEW LICENCE AGREEMENTS
MILESTONES
AUDIT AND SALE OF PATENTS
SALE OF INVESTMENTS
ACAMBIS
“WITH THE NEW STRATEGY, A
STRONG LEADERSHIP TEAM AND 
A SMALLER, HIGHLY CAPABLE
WORKFORCE, WE BELIEVE THAT
BTG IS WELL POSITIONED FOR 
THE FUTURE.”
£ million
Year ended Year ended
31 March 2005 31 March 2004*
Total revenue 42.7 52.9
Turnover 38.3 48.8
Net revenue 26.3 32.0
Loss before tax 34.3 22.8
Net funds 34.4 66.3
*2004 figures include the settlement with Acambis plc, which added £12.0 million to
total revenue and turnover and £7.2 million to net revenue
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
