 “We’re in great shape
to deliver on our plans.” 
Dr Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
7716 Report 2009.qxd  16/6/09  16:08  Page 20 20/21
BTG plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
We have a clear strategy
for growth.
Q: How do you see BTG’s business
developing?
Our growth strategy has three components.
The first is to build commercial operations 
in the US, enabling us to sell CroFab™ and
DigiFab™ to hospital-based critical care
physicians when sales rights return in 2010.
Second, to leverage these operations we
intend to acquire additional products to sell
to US hospital specialists. The third part is 
to continue to invest in our pipeline to build
value. We will seek to partner most of our
current development programmes in return
for milestones and a royalty on sales. 
Future pipeline additions will be focused 
on products we can sell ourselves.
Q: What makes the specialty
pharmaceuticals sector attractive?
It provides niche products to specialist
physicians, who are generally accessed
through small sales forces supported by 
one back office. Products are often used 
in critical situations, so appropriate pricing
and reimbursement is usually achievable.
Competition is often limited because of
the niche status of products, and product
lifecycles can be long. While products 
may not often have blockbuster potential,
margins are good. Also, the model is readily
scaled, so the addition of new products can
improve revenues and margins for modest
incremental investment.
Q: What are the key challenges 
in the year ahead?
The main challenges relate to implementing
our growth plans – so they are really
opportunities. The first is our goal of
establishing a US hospital sales force. This 
is obviously much more than just putting
sales reps on the ground – it’s about
establishing the infrastructure to support 
a professional sales operation. We have 
the financial resources this requires, and 
we have strengthened our team with
experienced people to ensure we do it 
right. Another challenge is to acquire new
products that we can develop and sell. 
We have the resources and capabilities, and
the current economic climate means there
are good opportunities out there, but we
have to choose carefully. Finally, a number 
of programmes in the internal and partnered
pipelines will soon reach key decision points
and choices will need to be made in relation
to further development activities.
Q: How competitive is the market for
acquiring later-stage programmes?
There is always competition for good
programmes and products. BTG has
substantial financial resources and we have
strengthened our late-stage development
capabilities, so we are in a good position to
compete for the sorts of products we want 
to acquire. Our focus is on products we can
sell through the planned US hospital sales
force, which is another attraction to licensors,
and we are prepared to complete late-stage
development or to take on products that are
already approved or marketed. 
7716 Report 2009.qxd  16/6/09  16:08  Page 21 22/
BTG plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Priorities in 08/09
1 Complete Varisolve
®
Phase II safety
study and pilot Phase III studies to
enable application for special protocol
assessment; progress partnering
discussions.
2 Initiate a Phase II study of BGC20-1259
in patients with Alzheimer’s disease.
3 Complete Phase I studies of BGC20-
1531 and BGC20-0134 and prepare
for Phase II studies.
4 File the IND for BGC20-0166 and
progress development of proprietary
formulation.
5 Partner at least one programme from
the current development pipeline.
6 Expand the development pipeline
through in-licensing and/or acquisition.
Priorities in 09/10
1 Achieve EBITDA and cash flow targets.
2 Make progress in establishing US
commercial operations to prepare
for selling CroFab™ and DigiFab™.
3 Seek to acquire/in-license additional
programmes to sell through the
planned US hospital sales force.
4 Achieve planned development and
manufacturing milestones.
5 Partner at least one programme from
the current development pipeline.
1 Varisolve
®
Phase II study successfully
completed and preparatory Phase III
studies under way; partnering
discussions continuing.
2 Decision taken not to progress 
BGC20-1259 into Phase II on technical
and commercial grounds.
3 Phase I studies of BGC20-1531 
and BGC20-0134 completed 
and Phase II studies planned 
to commence in H2 09.
4 IND opened for BGC20-0166 and 
Phase I study completed to progress
development of proprietary
formulation.
5 BGC 945 (ONX 0801), a targeted 
anti-cancer agent, was licensed to 
Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in return 
for an upfront payment of $13m plus
potential milestones of $307m and 
a royalty on sales.
6 Pipeline strengthened through
Protherics acquisition.
Performance against 08/09 priorities
7716 Report 2009.qxd  16/6/09  16:08  Page 22 23/
BTG plc Annual Report 2009
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Q: Is the risk profile of the business
increasing by moving into later-stage
development, manufacturing and sales?
By acquiring later-stage products,
development risks may actually be lower 
as more safety and efficacy data have
already been generated. Access and
development costs are generally higher
for later-stage assets, but product selection
plays an important role. We plan to take 
on programmes only where there is a clear
and affordable development pathway.
Manufacturing adds complexity, though 
we believe our polyclonal antibody
manufacturing platform is among the 
most advanced in the industry, and has
the potential to generate additional value
beyond the current products it supports.
Selling products adds a layer 
of commercial risk, but also provides the
opportunity to retain much more of a
product’s value than out-licensing. CroFab™
and DigiFab™ are established products, 
so launch risks are eliminated. Throughout
the business, we operate a sophisticated
risk management programme and have
appropriate mitigating activities in place. 
Q: Are other corporate acquisitions 
a possibility?
The Protherics acquisition has given us 
the means to address many of the growth
challenges we faced. It brings established
marketed products, smoothing our revenues
through 2011 and adding higher product
margins to our royalty revenues. Together,
we are more efficient and we have the
resources and capabilities to get value from
the combined pipeline, to establish US
commercial operations and to acquire
additional, later-stage products to feed 
into the planned hospital sales force.
We have to be flexible and ready 
to respond to opportunities. To strengthen
our pipeline we have to license or acquire
products. We will always first make sure the
product fits our strategy and then find the
best way to bring it in. If the best way to do
that is to acquire a company we will do so 
if it makes financial and strategic sense.
Q: What is the outlook for the business 
over the next two-to-three years?
The next few years will be busy and I’m 
sure there will be challenges we don’t yet
know about, but I believe we’re in great
shape to deliver on our plan to become 
a sustainably profitable specialty
pharmaceuticals company. I feel very
confident about our future.
7716 Report 2009.qxd  16/6/09  16:08  Page 23
