 10
Business review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Chief Executive 
Officer’ s review
We have big ambitions
in the short and long term
A strong ﬁnancial performance in 2009/10 was
matched by solid progress in our operations. 
Our near-term focus remains on assuming 
direct sales and marketing responsibility for
CroFab™ and DigiFab™, and on advancing our
development programmes including Varisolve
®
.
To meet our longer-term growth ambitions,
we are also actively reviewing opportunities to
acquire additional products that we can market 
in the US and programmes that we can add 
to our development pipeline.
Integration of Protherics
Our acquisition of Protherics in December 2008 evidenced 
our ambitions to develop BTG as a sustainable, growing
specialty pharmaceuticals business. Within a few months 
of completion, we had prioritised the combined development
portfolio, started a cost-reduction programme and initiated a
reorganisation of the Group’s operations to increase efﬁciency.
We set a target of achieving a £10m reduction in overhead
costs and a £10m reduction in research and development
expenditure by the end of the current 2010/11 ﬁnancial year.
As the results for 2009/10 demonstrate, we are making rapid
progress in meeting these targets and we are delivering
ahead of schedule.
Less visible, but equally important, there has been a huge
amount of work in the background to harmonise research
and development processes, ﬁnancial reporting and 
IT systems, HR policies, corporate and tax structure and 
many other business processes. I am grateful to all of our
employees for their continued focus on meeting business
objectives throughout these changes.
Establishing US commercial operations
Another area of tremendous activity has been the setting 
up of all of the new systems and processes that have to be 
in place for us to sell our own products in the US. As this is 
a new activity, we needed to recruit experienced personnel 
in key areas such as sales, marketing, medical affairs and
associated support functions. I am absolutely delighted 
with the calibre of new recruits we have been able to attract 
and how quickly they have taken ownership of key activities.
Our US commercial operations are now almost all in place,
and we look forward to marketing our two approved
products, CroFab™ and DigiFab™, from October 2010 when
we regain sales and marketing rights. On a stand-alone
basis, this is a proﬁtable acute care franchise. Its strategic
importance to BTG is that we can use it as a growth platform
to add new products, increasing top-line revenues, product
margins and overall proﬁtability.
We are actively reviewing opportunities to acquire products
that are already on the market, nearing approval or in late-
stage development. There is always competition for good
assets, so we are focusing on niche products that leverage
our US operations and therefore may be a better ﬁt for us 
than for others.
We are seeking products that leverage either the specialist
sales force that will sell CroFab™ and DigiFab™ or the
supporting infrastructure, i.e. our medical affairs, compliance,
ﬁnance, distribution and other processes.
Examples of the former are products that are administered 
by the same emergency room physicians as CroFab™ and
DigiFab™. An example of the latter is Varisolve
®
, where a
new specialist sales team that calls on vein clinics would be
supported by the existing commercial support infrastructure.
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:38  Page 10 11
Business review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
“There’s tremendous excitement all over 
the company. We are poised to start
selling our own products, key programmes
are moving forward and we’re actively
reviewing opportunities for further growth.”
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:38  Page 11 12
Business review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Varisolve
®
is a business-transforming opportunity
We indicated at the time of our interim results that we were
considering funding the Phase III trials of Varisolve
®
in the 
US and marketing it ourselves in the US reimbursed sector.
Having gained comfort about the trials through the Special
Protocol Assessment (‘SPA’) process with the FDA, and about
the potential market size from our market research, we have
now conﬁrmed that this is our intention. We are continuing 
to explore partnering in the US self-pay or cosmetic market,
while seeking to understand more fully the potential in other
geographic markets.
We estimate it will cost around $55m to get Varisolve
®
to approval in the US. This includes the clinical trial and
regulatory costs as well as the necessary investments in
manufacturing and the supply chain. This is a large though
affordable investment, which is why we have taken our time
to understand everything we can about what is required
to achieve the product label that opens up the market 
we believe exists. By undergoing the SPA process with the
FDA, we believe we have now de-risked the development
pathway sufﬁciently so that we can conﬁdently move forward. 
Our market research suggests that the market opportunity
for Varisolve
®
in the US reimbursed sector alone is in the
$250m to $500m range. If peak sales are only at the lower 
end of that range, the impact on BTG’s revenues and proﬁts
will still be transformational. We believe that Varisolve
®
has
signiﬁcant advantages for patients, physicians and payers,
and thus has the potential to become the leading product 
in the US for treating medically serious varicose veins.
Varisolve
®
represents an excellent investment opportunity
which ﬁts perfectly with our strategy.
Investing in Varisolve
®
will affect our reported results in the
near term. We are on track to achieve the £10m reduction 
in research and development expenditure on the prioritised
pipeline following the Protherics acquisition. However, 
our decision on Varisolve
®
means that reported research 
and development costs will increase over the coming two 
to three years. We make this investment with conﬁdence 
built on the stable ﬁnancial foundations we have created
over the past year.
Building our business on strong core values
Although BTG has a long history and strong heritage, 
we are in many ways a new company. Born of the merger 
of BTG and Protherics, we are adding new employees 
and embarking on new activities. We have big ambitions, 
and to achieve them we need a shared vision, strategy and
commitment from all our employees.
Early on in the integration process, the Leadership Team
developed a new vision for BTG and identiﬁed a set of core
values. We want to make these values underpin everything
we do as an organisation and all of our interactions with 
our colleagues, patients, physicians and business partners. 
We have engaged with employees across the business about
these values, through workshops, our Intranet, company-wide
meetings and other channels. We have made the values
central to how we plan and conduct our affairs, and we have
embedded them into our HR processes and into our
corporate and personal objectives. 
We have made our values core to everything we do, as we
truly believe this makes us more competitive and more able 
to succeed in achieving our goals. I have been inspired by
how readily and rapidly colleagues throughout BTG have
embraced our values and taken ownership of making them
integral to all our activities and interactions.
This is a great foundation for an ambitious, growing business.
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Chief Executive Officer’ s review continued
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:38  Page 12 13
Business review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Priorities
Priorities in 2009/10
1 Achieve proﬁt and 
cash targets
2 Make progress in
establishing US commercial
operations to prepare 
for selling CroFab™ and
DigiFab™
3 Seek to acquire/in-license
additional programmes 
to sell through the planned 
US hospital sales force
4 Achieve planned 
development milestones
5 Partner at least one
programme from the 
current pipeline
How we performed
1 Targets achieved 
at stretch levels
2 Key sales, marketing, 
medical affairs hires made
Agreements in place 
with contract sales and 
other support organisations
3 Product acquisition team 
and process established
Several opportunities
ongoing
4 Achieved at on-target 
level overall
5 Acadra™ licensed
to Advancell
Our priorities in 2010/11
1 Financial management
– Achieve revenue,
gross margin, proﬁt
and cash targets
– Achieve new licence 
revenue target
2 Commercial
– Initiate sales of CroFab™ 
and DigiFab™
– Successful audit
of compliance systems
– Progress DPC CroFab™ 
for 2012 introduction
3Growth
– Expand marketed 
products and pipeline 
in line with strategy
4 Development
– Progress Varisolve
®
Phase III programme
– Submit ﬁnal part 
of Voraxaze™ BLA
5 Operations
– Manage supply chain 
to meet commercial
production targets
– Achieve targeted 
increases in 
production yields
7884 Report 2010_Report 2010  02/06/2010  17:38  Page 13
