 16
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
By bringing together three strong companies, 
we have created a financially strong, 
diversified specialist healthcare business 
with excellent growth potential.
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review
In line with our strategy to migrate from a 
pure licensing business into one that also 
sells its own products, thereby benefiting 
from enhanced revenues and margins, in 
December 2008 we acquired Protherics  
and two acute care products, CroFab® and 
DigiFab® . These are approved in the US  
and were being sold there by Nycomed.  
We saw the opportunity to build our own  
US commercial operations in a de-risked  
way around these established, profitable 
products by taking over direct sales. In 
October 2010, following an agreement  
with Nycomed to accelerate the return  
of marketing rights to BTG, our new acute 
care sales force commenced selling  
the products.
Having established US commercial 
operations, our strategy has been to  
acquire further products that meet the 
needs of specialist physicians and their 
patients. This led to the acquisition in 
January 2011 of Biocompatibles and its 
range of interventional oncology products 
that are sold in the US, the EU and other 
territories including growing Asian markets. 
Biocompatibles has brought a new focus 
area to BTG – interventional medicine, a 
branch of medicine that is growing rapidly 
and is practised by specialist physicians 
including interventional radiologists.
The strong financial profile of the Group  
and planned commercial capabilities 
enabled us to confirm we would fund the 
remaining development of Varisolve®  
(PEM) and market it ourselves in the  
US reimbursed sector if approved. This 
product is a key value driver for BTG.
Integration of Biocompatibles
Since completing the acquisition of 
Biocompatibles in January I have met  
many of our new employees and have spent 
time with the operational management 
teams at our new sites in the UK, the US  
and Germany. I have been impressed by  
the commercial focus and professionalism 
of everyone I have met. Biocompatibles  
has operated to a very similar set of values 
and standards to BTG, which has made 
integration of the business that much easier.
Our approach to the integration has been  
to recognise that the enlarged company  
now has three distinct areas of focus: 
specialty pharmaceuticals, interventional 
medicine and licensing and biotechnology. 
Each area already generates revenues from 
marketed products or royalties, has ongoing 
development programmes which, if 
successful, would lead to new revenue 
streams, and has opportunities for further 
growth through acquisition, development  
and geographic expansion activities.
Specialty pharmaceuticals
Our acute care sales force launched on 
1 October 2010 with ten representatives  
and grew to 19 representatives in February 
2011 in preparation for the main season  
for CroFab® in the US. We are pleased with 
progress to date and encouraged by initial 
customer responses to our engagement  
with them and to new initiatives. For 
example, we provided an educational  
grant to opinion leaders in the toxicology 
community to enable them to develop  
the first unified treatment algorithm for 
managing crotaline snake bites in the US. 
With DigiFab® , we are optimising 
geographical sales coverage in the US and 
seeking to improve awareness amongst 
physicians of the signs of digoxin toxicity 
which, due to its relative rarity, may not be 
immediately recognisable. We have received 
Estimated incidents of  
snakebite envenomation  
each year in the US
8,000
Percentage of patients 
prescribed digoxin who may 
experience toxicity
1%–4% Business review
 17
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review
Louise Makin Chief Executive Officer
Our new acute care sales team has 
made a strong start selling CroFab® and 
DigiFab® direct in the US. Biocompatibles 
has now bought us another focus area 
in interventional medicine. We are now 
confidently building another sales team  
as we prepare to start selling the LC Bead™ 
directly in the US from 2012. 18
Business review  BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
regulatory approvals in Canada and 
Switzerland, are progressing a regulatory 
application in the UK and intend to seek 
additional approvals elsewhere.
We have signed an agreement with 
Glenveigh Pharmaceuticals, LLC whereby 
rights to develop DigiFab® for pre-eclampsia 
revert back to Glenveigh in return for 
undisclosed milestone and royalty payments 
to BTG. Glenveigh will be responsible for 
development and commercialisation and 
BTG will supply clinical trial materials and, 
subject to further agreement, commercial 
scale supplies.
Our strategy is to build our specialty 
pharmaceuticals revenues through both 
organic development activities and through 
product acquisitions. From our own pipeline, 
we expect to submit the final part of the 
rolling BLA for Voraxaze® (glucarpidase)  
to the US FDA in mid 2011, leading to a 
potential US approval during 2012. If 
approved, the existing acute care sales  
force would sell glucarpidase, which is  
under development to treat toxicity 
associated with high-dose methotrexate  
in patients with renal impairment, 
supplemented by a few medical sales 
liaisons (MSLs). We are also reviewing a 
number of external opportunities, which 
include products that would be used in the 
hospital emergency room and products that 
would be prescribed by specialist physicians 
outside of the hospital setting.
Interventional medicine
Biocompatibles’ embolisation beads and 
drug-eluting beads and BrachySciences’ 
brachytherapy products are medical devices 
that are used to address the needs of 
patients with cancer of the liver and prostate 
respectively. The products are sold in the  
US, the EU and in other territories, and  
they are in registration studies or pending 
reimbursement in a number of important 
Asian markets (see product availability  
map on page 2). Primary liver cancer is 
estimated to be seven times more common 
in certain Asian countries than in Western 
countries owing to widespread infection  
with hepatitis B and C; we believe Asia will 
become an increasingly important market  
for these products.
We currently sell Bead Block™ directly in 
the US and plan to sell LC Bead™ directly 
following expiry of the current distribution 
agreement with AngioDynamics, Inc. on 
31 December 2011. To this end, we are 
recruiting 21 additional MSLs and account 
managers, who will join the existing small 
team and will be supported by the same 
commercial infrastructure that supports  
our acute care team.
Through BrachySciences we also sell a range 
of radioactive seeds and delivery systems  
in the US that are used to treat early-stage 
prostate cancer. As we sell more products 
directly in the US, we see opportunities for 
increased efficiency from sharing resources 
and infrastructure, which will enable us to 
drive margin and profit improvements.
We estimate that in 2009 our Bead products 
had around one-third of a global market that 
reached around $95m, and we believe that 
our global Bead sales grew at around twice 
the rate of the overall market from 2007 
to 2009. We see multiple opportunities 
to drive further growth, and we estimate 
that the total global market could reach 
$400m–$800m. The drivers of growth 
include:
 — Product innovation – we are developing 
innovations such as M1 Beads that 
would allow access to different sizes 
of tumour, and pre-loaded drug-eluting 
beads that would eliminate the need for 
compounding in the hospital pharmacy;
 — Geographical expansion – we are 
progressing registrations in China and 
Japan and are awaiting reimbursement 
approval in Taiwan and Korea; and
 — Segmental expansion – we are 
supporting a number of clinical studies 
designed to explore the safety and 
efficacy of the Beads for treating different 
types of liver tumours; the results of 
these studies will inform the clinical and 
regulatory strategy for further studies 
designed to expand the uses for which 
the Beads are indicated.
Many interventional radiologists are  
treating varicose veins and it is becoming 
increasingly clear that this physician group 
could be important to the future adoption  
of PEM. As we interact with these physicians 
in connection with the Bead products,  
we are gaining invaluable experience that  
we believe will be of benefit for the future 
marketing of PEM if it is approved in the  
US. The PEM trials are progressing well,  
with recruitment on track in all three.  
We are on track to submit a US regulatory 
Chief Executive 
Officer’s review continued
Estimated global market 
potential for oncology  
bead implants
$400m– 
$800m
Estimated peak sales potential 
for Varisolve® (PEM) in the US 
reimbursed sector
$250m– 
$500m Business review
 19
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review 
application in H2 2012, leading to potential 
approval in H2 2013. We continue to believe 
that the market opportunity in the US 
reimbursed sector is $250m–$500m per 
annum, and we intend to retain maximum 
value by marketing the product ourselves  
if approved.
Licensing and biotechnology
We generated £60.1m (09/10: £54.1m)  
in recurring royalties from our licensing 
activities. Although future revenues on 
BeneFIX® , the largest contributor in 
2010/11, will cease following sale of 
inventory existing when the final licensed 
patents expired in February and March 
2011, we anticipate new contributors.  
These include ZYTIGA™ (abiraterone 
acetate), which was approved in the US  
in April 2011 as a treatment for men  
with advanced prostate cancer who have 
previously been treated with docataxel 
chemotherapy.
Development and commercialisation 
activities continue to be important to BTG.  
In our current development pipeline are a 
number of programmes that we intend to 
partner once they have completed their 
current studies if the data are supportive, 
including BGC20-0134 (Pleneva™), which  
is currently in a Phase IIa study for  
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
With Biocompatibles we acquired CellMed,  
a research and development company  
in Germany that has a number of early  
stage programmes based on its CellBeads 
technology. These aim to deliver therapeutic 
proteins generated by mesenchymal stromal 
cells, and they seek to overcome certain 
difficulties by being encapsulated in a 
biopolymer coated bead. The target 
indications include stroke, which is not  
a strategic fit for BTG. We are currently 
exploring options to develop the CellBeads 
programmes to the point where we can 
partner them to realise both immediate  
and future value.
Building for the future
By bringing together three strong companies 
over the past 30 months we have created a 
company with the capabilities, resources 
and opportunities to become a substantial, 
sustainably profitable specialist healthcare 
business.
