 Chief Executive Officer’s review
Louise Makin
Chief Executive Officer
08
Business review
When we set out several years ago to 
transform our business from an early-
stage development company into a 
specialist healthcare business selling its 
own products, we defined a set of core 
values that would guide us. These values 
continue to be fundamental to how we 
go about our business.
Ultimately, they are about building trust 
with all our stakeholders: customers, 
patients, payers, regulators, partners, 
shareholders and colleagues. We are 
proud to be part of a company whose 
products improve health and can save 
lives. We also recognise our corporate 
responsibilities, and we believe that 
always living our values will help us be a 
responsible business that is capable of 
delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
All of our values are equally important 
though one that stands out when 
reflecting on the past year is delivery. 
This is about doing what we say we will 
do at an individual, team, segmental and 
Group level. Thanks to the commitment 
and professionalism of our employees, 
we have had an excellent year and made 
strong progress towards delivering our 
key medium-term business goals.
The following section should be 
read in conjunction with the financial 
statements and related notes on 
pages 80 to 130.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Our Acute Care sales force 
performed well in its first full year 
selling CroFab® and DigiFab® directly 
in the US. Revenues of £76.7m 
resulted in a contribution of £39.4m. 
The team commenced selling 
Voraxaze® on 30 April 2012 following 
its US approval in January 2012.
The Acute Care sales team performed 
strongly, delivering 117% growth in 
revenues from CroFab® , DigiFab® and 
Voraxaze® . This resulted principally from 
the transition to direct sales in the US, 
and was further enhanced by increased 
end market volumes and price growth. 
The benefits of selling directly were also 
reflected in a substantial increase in 
profit contribution.
The reported revenues from Voraxaze® 
result from its availability under a 
treatment investigational new drug (IND) 
in the US and from named patient sales 
elsewhere. A key achievement during the 
year was the US approval of Voraxaze® in 
January 2012 following a priority review 
by the FDA. This product addresses a 
real unmet need: there is no other 
approved treatment for life-threatening 
high-dose methotrexate toxicity due to 
impaired renal function. Around half the 
patients who experience toxicity with 
high-dose methotrexate are children.
We estimate the US peak sales potential 
for Voraxaze® to be approximately $15m 
per annum, on the basis of commercial 
pricing rather than cost-recovery. 
Although modest, this unique product 
delivers a good margin and exemplifies 
our strategy of leveraging the investment 
we have made in creating a US 
commercial infrastructure. It will be sold 
by the existing Acute Care team so 
requires only modest incremental sales 
and marketing expenditure.
Our partner Wellstat Therapeutics 
Corporation continues to make good 
progress with the development of uridine 
triacetate (UTA), a potential antidote to 
toxicity associated with 5-fluorouracil 
(5-FU), a common chemotherapeutic. 
Wellstat anticipates submitting a US 
regulatory application during the second 
half of 2013. If approved, UTA would be 
sold by our Acute Care sales team. In 
May 2012, we also acquired rights to 
distribute UTA on a named patient supply 
basis in Europe for an upfront payment 
of $3.0m, together with an option to 
market UTA following EU regulatory 
approval, under pre-agreed financial 
terms including a multi-million dollar 
exercise fee and transfer pricing 
payments based on manufacturing costs 
and a significant percentage of net sales.
We have the team, capabilities and 
financial resources to continue 
implementing our strategy to be a 
leading specialist healthcare business.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals revenue
£76.7m 11/12
£35.4m 10/11
Specialty Pharmaceuticals contribution
£39.4m 11/12
£10.8m 10/11
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 DigiFab® (digoxin immune fab (ovine))
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
Approved for sale in the US, Canada, 
UK and Switzerland for the treatment 
of digoxin toxicity and marketed 
in the US through our Acute Care 
team. The only available product for 
the treatment of digoxin toxicity.
Business review Brachytherapy Implants
Interventional Medicine
Our brachytherapy business 
develops, manufactures and markets 
unique delivery systems containing 
radioactive seeds as well as ancillary 
equipment used principally in the 
treatment of early-stage prostate 
cancer. Our strategy within Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals is to expand our 
portfolio of marketed products and 
late-stage programmes through 
in-licensing and acquisition. We have 
a growing antidote franchise and are 
looking for similar products that are 
used in emergency situations in 
hospitals and in other specialist centres. 
We are also exploring opportunities 
to expand our portfolio with products 
used by other specialist physicians 
within and outside the hospital setting. 
Interventional Medicine
Revenues were £28.7m in the first 
full year following our acquisition 
of Biocompatibles, delivering a 
contribution of £6.8m. In January 
2012, we commenced direct sales 
of our bead products in the US. 
The full financial impact of this 
transition will be evident in our 
2012/13 results.
We estimate, based on our analysis of 
public information, that the global annual 
aggregate sales of loco-regional 
treatments for liver tumours grew from 
$87m at the end of 2008 to $193m at 
the end of 2011, with our market share 
growing from 20% to 27% during that 
period. We anticipate continued double-
digit overall market growth through 
2020, driven by expanding the approved 
uses of the products, geographic 
expansion and product innovation.
Our strategy to expand this business 
is to: sell directly in the US; expand 
geographically through working with 
partners; invest in clinical studies 
to expand the indicated uses of our 
products; develop line extensions; 
and acquire additional products used 
by interventional radiologists, clinical 
oncologists and oncology surgeons.
During the second half of 2011 
we set up our second field force, 
an Interventional Medicine team of 
24 Account Managers (AMs) and 
Medical Science Liaisons (MSLs). 
As planned, the AMs assumed 
direct control of selling LC Bead™ in 
the US from January 2012, following 
expiry of the distribution contract 
with AngioDynamics, Inc.
The transition has gone well. 
We expect the financial benefits of 
selling directly to start this financial year. 
Less immediately obvious, but equally 
important, are the benefits of being 
able to get close to our customers. 
This helps us fully understand their 
needs and the pressures that they 
face, so that we can respond in terms 
of our product and service offering.
In Japan, where we are partnered with 
Eisai, the regulatory application for 
DC Bead® is being reviewed by the 
Japanese regulatory authorities. 
In China, our partner SciClone completed 
a 40-person study and is engaging with 
the Chinese regulator about the further 
steps required in order for them to 
accept a submission for review. In South 
Korea, qualified reimbursement was 
achieved and in Taiwan we are awaiting 
reimbursement approval.
Later this year we expect first results 
from the PARAGON exploratory studies, 
in which DC Bead® loaded with irinotecan 
is being investigated as a treatment for 
metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC). 
These include PARAGON II, which is 
evaluating the safety and efficacy of the 
irinotecan bead used prior to surgical 
resection of metastatic liver tumours. 
A second study (PARAGON Louisville) 
is evaluating the effectiveness of 
chemoembolisation with LC Bead™ 
loaded with irinotecan, both with and 
without systemic chemotherapy, in 
the treatment of unresectable liver 
metastases in patients with 
colorectal cancer.
We plan to initiate a formal Phase II 
study in mCRC, the design of which 
will be informed by these exploratory 
studies. We are also exploring other 
indications such as metastatic ocular 
cancer and cholangiocarcinoma, orphan 
indications which may not require 
extensive studies to gain marketing 
approvals.
11
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Interventional Medicine revenue
£28.7m 11/12
£5.6m
1
10/11
Interventional Medicine contribution
£6.8m 11/12
£0.2m
1
10/11
1  Includes approximately two months of trading 
following the Biocompatibles acquisition.
Chief Executive Officer’s review AZD9773 (CytoFab™)
Licensing & Biotechnology
In Phase IIb clinical development 
with partner AstraZeneca as a 
treatment for severe sepsis. 
Manufactured by BTG using the same 
polyclonal antibody manufacturing 
platform used to make our approved 
antidotes, CroFab® and DigiFab® . At present, when DC Bead® is loaded 
with a chemotherapeutic, this is done in 
the pharmacy at the hospital where the 
procedure is to take place. We are 
developing the PRECISION Bead® and 
PARAGON Bead® , which are pre-loaded 
with drug and, if approved, would be a 
significant step forward for interventional 
medicine.
In January and April 2012, we reported 
positive results from VANISH-1 and 
VANISH-2 our two US pivotal Phase III 
trials of PEM, which are designed to 
support its approval as a comprehensive 
treatment to reduce the symptoms and 
improve the appearance of varicose 
veins. The primary endpoint was a 
reduction in symptoms, as measured by 
a novel patient-reported outcomes tool. 
Improvement in appearance, the 
secondary endpoint, was measured 
using novel patient and physician tools. 
PEM achieved all the study endpoints 
with a high degree of statistical 
significance. In a smaller study, VV017, 
patients were treated first with heat 
ablation of the great saphenous vein 
followed by PEM for the remaining visible 
varicosities. Statistical significance was 
reached for one of two co-primary 
endpoints, the blinded independent 
panel review of photographs, but not for 
the patient-reported measure.
We are completing manufacturing and 
chemistry, manufacturing and controls 
(CMC) activities and preparing our 
regulatory application, which we aim to 
submit at the end of 2012. If approved, 
we intend to market PEM ourselves in 
the US reimbursed sector. We estimate 
the global peak sales potential of PEM 
to be up to $500m per annum.
Licensing & Biotechnology
Revenue of £91.6m delivered a 
contribution of £45.6m. Revenues 
benefited from higher than expected 
post-patent-expiry royalties on 
BeneFIX® and a strong start from 
Zytiga® following US and EU 
regulatory approvals during 2011.
This part of our business derives from 
BTG’ s history as an IP commercialisation 
organisation. It comprises licensed 
assets together with assets acquired 
with Protherics and Biocompatibles 
that we do not intend to take to market 
ourselves but which may have value to 
partners. We have retained the required 
IP and other commercial skills to 
commercialise these assets, as those 
skills remain core to our ongoing 
business activities.
Although not an active area of focus 
in terms of new opportunities, our 
Licensing & Biotechnology segment is 
expected to continue to provide a solid 
financial underpin for BTG for many years 
to come. While some licensed assets 
will cease to deliver revenues following 
patent expiries, others are starting to 
generate new revenue streams and 
have the potential to deliver royalties 
beyond 2020.
Following patent expiry in March 2011, 
revenues from BeneFIX® , for several 
years our largest individual royalty 
contributor, are expected to end during 
our 2012/13 year.
A new revenue stream emerged during 
the 2011/12 year with the US and EU 
approvals of Zytiga® , marketed by the 
Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of 
Johnson & Johnson. This was approved 
to treat men with castration resistant 
prostate cancer (CRPC) who have 
previously received docataxel. The 
approvals resulted in two milestone 
payments and our first royalties.
Importantly, a second Phase III trial 
in men who had not yet received 
chemotherapy was unblinded after an 
interim analysis in March 2012 because 
of clear evidence of clinical benefits in 
men receiving Zytiga® compared with 
those receiving placebo. Johnson & 
Johnson intends to start submitting 
regulatory applications to extend the 
approved uses of Zytiga® into this 
chemo-naïve patient population. 
If approved, this could significantly 
expand the number of patients who may 
benefit from treatment with this product.
In April 2012, Sanofi presented positive 
Phase III data and indicated it would 
submit US and EU regulatory 
13
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
Licensing & Biotechnology revenue
£91.6m 11/12
£70.4m 10/11
Licensing & Biotechnology contribution
£45.6m 11/12
£32.6m 10/11 applications for the approval of 
alemtuzumab as a treatment for 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis 
during the second quarter 2012. The 
application is expected to receive priority 
review in the US. If approved, this would 
result in another new revenue stream 
for BTG.
AstraZeneca’ s Phase IIb study of 
AZD9773 completed recruitment of 
around 300 patients with severe sepsis 
in March 2012. Top-line data are 
anticipated in the second half of 2012, 
together with a decision by AstraZeneca 
on whether to progress into Phase III 
development. 
After disappointing data from a Phase IIa 
study in patients with relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis, we discontinued 
development of BGC20-0134 and 
ceased commercial activities. 
We are continuing to explore options for 
partnerships with CellMed, our German 
subsidiary acquired with Biocompatibles. 
CellMed has a number of early-stage 
programmes and platform technologies 
that are not in our core focus areas but 
may be of interest to other companies.
There is good momentum across 
our three business areas and we 
look forward to another busy year 
with confidence. We have the team, 
capabilities and financial resources 
to continue implementing our strategy 
to be a leading specialist healthcare 
business focused on Specialty 
Pharmaceuticals and Interventional 
Medicine.
14
Business review
Chief Executive Officer’s review
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CroFab® (crotalidae polyvalent 
immune fab (ovine))
Specialty Pharmaceuticals
The only approved treatment 
for the management of patients 
with North American pit viper 
envenomation. Of the 3,000 
to 5,000 venomous snakebites 
treated in US emergency 
departments each year, 97% 
are from pit vipers.
Business review
