 Chairman’s statement
In this, my first statement to 
shareholders as Chairman, I am pleased 
to report that BTG is in a strong position 
and is delivering on its strategy and its 
objectives. We have made significant 
progress on a number of fronts over the 
last year and are at an exciting time in 
our development. We approach the 
future with confidence. 
The Group’ s strategy of selling its own 
specialist products is working. In 
Specialty Pharmaceuticals, a strong 
performance from CroFab® and DigiFab® 
has been supplemented by cost-recovery 
and named patient sales of Voraxaze® , 
which was approved by the FDA in 
January 2012 and launched nationally 
in the US at the end of April 2012. 
Similarly, the creation of a dedicated 
sales function in Interventional Medicine 
has enabled us to bring in-house the 
US sales responsibility for our beads 
business. 
Our Licensing & Biotechnology revenues 
benefited from significant post-patent-
expiry royalties from Pfizer on BeneFIX® 
and first royalties from Johnson & 
Johnson on Zytiga® , which has had 
a strong start. 
Product development has also 
progressed well during the year. In 
addition to the Voraxaze®approval, we 
have announced positive US Phase III 
results for PEM, a potential treatment 
for varicose veins, and we continue to 
progress our bead chemoembolisation 
studies.
I have been very impressed with the 
quality of the people at BTG; it has a 
high-calibre management group and 
a strong teamwork culture. I should 
like to acknowledge the excellent work 
of my predecessor, Dr John Brown, in 
overseeing this and in successfully 
steering the Group through its 
transformation. I would like formally 
to thank him on behalf of the Board 
and to wish him well for the future.
As we look to the future, our focus 
remains on our clearly articulated and 
deliverable strategy and objectives. 
We will also continue to be guided 
by our core values, which are embedded 
throughout the Group, and which we 
believe contribute to the generation 
of shareholder value.
We are well placed to become 
increasingly cash-generative over the 
medium term, driven by the transition to 
direct sales in the US, the US approval of 
Voraxaze® , underlying double-digit growth 
in our Interventional Medicine business 
and a continuing strong royalty stream 
from our Licensing & Biotechnology 
business.
The cash we generate is available to 
continue development of PEM and our 
bead products and to invest in acquiring 
or in-licensing new products and 
late-stage programmes. The Board 
believes that reinvesting shareholder 
funds in this way will generate most 
value over the longer term, and it does 
not recommend payment of a dividend.
BTG has made strong progress over the 
past year, and I look forward to working 
with my Board colleagues and our wider 
team to continue to develop BTG into a 
leading specialist healthcare business.
We are delivering on our strategy 
and are well placed to be increasingly 
cash-generative over the medium term.
Cash generated from operations
£47.2m
11/12 £47.2m
10/11 (£12.0m)
09/10 £5.8m
08/09 (£1.8m)
07/08 £13.4m
Garry Watts
Chairman
06
Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Zytiga® (abiraterone acetate)
Licensing & Biotechnology
Launched in the US and Europe 
by the Janssen Pharmaceutical 
Companies of Johnson & Johnson 
during the last year. Approved for the 
treatment of patients with late-stage 
prostate cancer. We benefit from a 
royalty on all global sales of this new 
oral, once-daily medication.
Business review
