 18 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Highlights for 2013:
 – Full year production of 23.5mt, ahead of target
 – A strengthened management team
 – Asset optimisation on track to deliver savings 
in 2014
 – A fresh start under the new name of Asia 
Resource Minerals plc
The Separation Transaction
At our General Meeting on 17 December 2013, 
our shareholders voted overwhelmingly for the 
Separation Transaction as well as a change of 
name to Asia Resource Minerals plc.
On 25 March 2014 we announced the completion 
of the Separation Transaction which involved the 
disposal of our 29.2% stake in PT Bumi and the 
sale of the Bakrie Group’s entire 23.8% indirect 
interest in the Company to Ravenwood Acquisition 
Company Limited (“RACL ”), a company owned by 
Samin Tan. Companies controlled by Samin Tan 
now own 47.6% of the total shares in the Company.
While the timing of completion was delayed, the 
price of $501 million paid by the Bakries for the 
PT Bumi stake was completed according to the 
original terms and at more than three times the 
market value of PT Bumi in Indonesia prior 
to completion.
Following the successful conclusion of the 
transaction, our intention is to return at least 
$400 million of cash to shareholders.
The year in review
2013 was a very challenging but transformational 
year for the Group. Against a backdrop of shareholder 
turmoil and continued weak thermal coal prices, 
the underlying business performed well in terms 
of production growth, cost control and further 
enhancement to our systems of governance and 
financial controls.
Whilst sales volumes increased 11% in the year to 
23.3mt, this was offset by a 16% reduction in the 
average selling price. Production at PT Berau grew 
by 11.7% in 2013 to 23.5mt from 21.0mt in 2012. 
Underlying EBITDA was $176 million, as detailed 
in the Financial Review.
In October, we significantly strengthened our 
management team with the appointments of Paul 
Fenby as Chief Financial Officer, and Keith Downham 
as Chief Mining Officer, both based in Jakarta. 
Paul’s initial focus is on optimising the Group’s 
capital structure and strengthening our financial 
controls, while Keith is responsible for our new 
Life of Mine plan and ongoing asset optimisation 
programme. A number of other management 
appointments have also been made. 
It is my focus to build on our strong operating 
performance with a near term focus on creating 
value through the development and optimisation 
of our coal mining activities at PT Berau.
Our vision and strategy
The three pillars of the Group’s near term 
strategy are:
Optimisation – we are optimising our asset base by 
improving efficiency and cutting costs aggressively 
across the Group 
Organic Growth – we are focused on delivering 
profitable production growth at PT Berau
Capital Structure – we are optimising our capital 
structure and currently exploring a range of 
refinancing options to reduce our interest costs
Optimisation
Good progress continues to be made in respect of the 
Company’s asset optimisation programme, to reduce 
costs and improve efficiencies.
An optimised Life of Mine plan has been completed, 
which will aim to maximise value and further enhance 
the efficiency of current mining methods. Discussions 
are also at a very advanced stage with a number of 
mining contractors to effect rate reductions starting in 
2014. In addition the number of contractors has been 
rationalised by the removal of some of the smaller 
higher cost contractors. Projects are underway to 
ensure that the Company realises the lowest costs 
for tyres and explosives.
Conceptual level studies have been completed 
into the use of conveyors to transport both waste 
material and coal, and initial outcomes from 
these studies suggest there is potential to further 
Nick von Schirnding
Chief Executive Officer 19 ASIA RESOURCE MINERALS | Annual Report and Accounts 2013
reduce costs. The current focus is to advance the 
studies and engineering on these projects for 
potential implementation.
Fuel consumption for both mine fleet and shipping 
has been reduced by 6.8 million litres through the use 
of additives which improve combustion and instituting 
controls that reduce wastage. Further fuel initiatives 
are currently being worked on, including the 
implementation of fuel management systems and 
improved fuel pricing. Fuel is one of the Company’s 
largest costs, in 2013 it spent $227 million on fuel.
Annualised exploration costs have been reduced by 
12% to $11.5 million (2012: $13.0 million) through 
maximising the utilisation of drilling equipment. 
The number of rigs has been reduced, as has the 
overall number of geologists.
In terms of barging productivity, sea trials have been 
completed on 330ft barges with a load capacity of 
11,000 tonnes, against current 270ft barges with a 
7,000 tonne load capacity. Two larger barges have 
been brought into service with plans to replace the 
entire fleet operating from the Suaran port as existing 
contracts end during 2014. A dredging programme at 
the Lati port has allowed the load on each barge to be 
increased from 5,500 to over 7,000 tonnes.
Marketing commissions on the sale of coal have 
been reduced by 0.5% from 3.5% to 3.0% from 
January 2014 and discussions on further reductions 
are underway.
Organic growth
I am pleased to report that we grew production at 
PT Berau by 11.7% in 2013 to 23.5mt from 21.0mt 
in 2012. We currently expect 2014 to be another 
solid year of growth with the incremental production 
increase forecast to come largely from Binungan. 
The Company’s mine plan envisages growth in 
production for 2014 of around 10% although that 
remains dependent upon the successful outcome 
of our discussions with the Indonesian authorities 
about increasing the current quota beyond 23mt. 
Organic growth remains our immediate priority and 
we remain engaged with the Indonesian government 
regarding extending the CCoW. While any attractive 
acquisition opportunity would naturally be assessed, 
the near term priority remains delivering on the 
significant available organic growth options.
Capital structure
As at 31 December 2013, the Group had net debt of 
$523 million (2012: $535 million (restated)). We are 
currently exploring a range of refinancing options to 
reduce our interest costs.
Governance
Good corporate governance practices are essential 
to our management of the affairs of the Group, and 
our accountability to shareholders. Since being 
appointed the first unaffiliated CEO of the Group on 
31 December 2012, I have initiated a number of major 
changes to enhance our governance framework.
In 2013, we appointed a new President Director and 
installed a new management team at PT Berau, as 
well as moving to a new head office in Jakarta. 
We also conducted an extensive review of PT Berau’s 
financial position. This led to an ongoing programme 
of enhancements across a range of internal controls 
and resulted in increased alignment of PT Berau with 
the Company’s governance framework, practices 
which had previously not been followed by former 
PT Berau management.
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities
We run our business in a socially and environmentally 
responsible way. Employee safety, environmental 
protection and the wellbeing of local communities 
are essential to our corporate identity and values. 
In terms of safety, I am pleased to report that for 
the second year running, we had no fatalities. It is 
also pleasing to note that Berau won a Silver Award 
in 2013 for its performance in both Safety and 
Environmental Management practices.
Outlook
Whilst the coal price may well remain muted in the 
near term due to supply issues, we believe that the 
longer term outlook for thermal coal continues to 
be well underpinned by growth in demand from 
Asian countries. We believe it will remain a vital 
source of cost-competitive energy globally for the 
foreseeable future.
Conclusion
Now that the long and painful process of the 
Separation Transaction is complete, and with the 
ongoing process of enhancing controls in place, I am 
confident that we are in a better position to deliver 
value to our shareholders.
I would also like to take this opportunity to thank 
our employees across the Group for their hard work 
during often difficult circumstances in 2013 and I look 
forward to delivering on our commitments over the 
year ahead.
Nick von Schirnding
Chief Executive Officer
