 Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 06 chief executive’s review
chie F exec Uti Ve’s re View
We h Ave Delive ReD 
An Othe R GOOD set  
Of R esults D espite 
c OntinuinG ch AllenG inG  
ec On Omic c OnD iti Ons 
In North America revenue and operating profit 
rose by 7% (4% at constant exchange rates) 
and 3% (1% at constant exchange rates) 
respectively due to strong organic revenue 
growth, principally as a result of increased 
volumes to existing customers, with profit 
growth held back by some mix driven margin 
pressure. Although UK & Ireland saw a decline 
in revenue of 6% (5% at constant exchange 
rates) due to the persisting difficult economic 
conditions and weakness in some businesses, 
especially Ireland, Vending and Healthcare, 
operating profit rose 3% as operating margins 
increased significantly due to the positive 
impact of earlier cost reduction initiatives and 
the absence of a negative transaction impact 
from foreign exchange which adversely 
affected the results in 2009. In Continental 
Europe revenue grew by 3% (7% at constant 
exchange rates) as a result of the impact from 
acquisitions made during 2010, while 
operating profit decreased 2% (up 2% at 
constant exchange rates) due to the positive 
impact from acquisitions being offset by the 
lower contribution from reduced sales volumes 
in France which were partly held back 
following exceptional sales of products related 
to H1N1 prevention during 2009. The Rest of 
the World showed growth of 23% in revenue 
(4% at constant exchange rates) and 40% in 
operating profit (19% at constant exchange 
rates) principally due to strong organic growth 
in Brazil and a significant operating margin 
improvement in Australasia.
Basic earnings per share were 49.1p, up 6% 
(4% at constant exchange rates). Adjusted 
earnings per share, after eliminating the effect 
of intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs, were 60.6p, an increase of 8% 
Operating performance
Revenue and operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs 
each increased 4% to £4,829.6 million and 
£306.7 million respectively. The overall impact 
from currency translation was slightly positive 
with both growth rates 3% at constant 
exchange. Excluding the impact from 
acquisitions and the previously announced 
sales of products related to H1N1 prevention 
in 2009, underlying revenue growth at 
constant exchange rates was 2%. The strong 
cash flow of the Group continued as we 
converted 93% of our operating profit into 
cash. In this review all references to operating 
profit are to operating profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition related costs.
(7% at constant exchange rates). Return  
on average operating capital continued at  
a consistently high level of 54.4%, similar  
to the return in 2009.
Our operating cash flow continued to be 
strong. Despite an acquisition cash outflow  
of £111 million and net capital expenditure  
of £22 million, our year end net debt of  
£716.8 million was at the same level as the 
end of 2009. Our net debt to EBITDA ratio 
improved to 2.1 times compared to 2.2 times 
at the previous year end.
During 2010 we continued to focus on the 
sustainability of our operations to minimise  
our impact on climate change, as well as 
offering environmentally friendly products  
and consolidated deliveries of consumables  
for our customers to reduce their own impact. 
Although we have been measuring the carbon 
emissions of our operations for a number of 
years, reporting our performance through the 
Carbon Disclosure Project, we have decided 
this year to add our carbon emissions as a key 
performance indicator. I am also pleased to 
report that for 2011 we have for the first time 
set quantitative targets at the Group level to 
continue to improve our health, safety and 
environmental performance.
The business area operations, including  
the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below 
at constant exchange rates to remove the 
translation impact of foreign currency 
movements between 2010 and the previous 
year. Changes in the level of revenue and 
profits at constant exchange rates have been 
calculated by retranslating the results for  
2009 at the average exchange rates for 2010.
michael r oney
c hief executive Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 07
Acquisitions
Acquisition activity picked up significantly  
in 2010 after a much quieter year in 2009. 
During the year we announced nine 
acquisitions and invested £126 million.  
In particular, we entered Israel for the first 
time, significantly increased our presence in 
Switzerland as we entered three new market 
sectors and made our second step into the 
promising Brazilian market.
In January we acquired Clean Care which is 
principally engaged in the supply of cleaning 
and hygiene consumable products and 
equipment to a variety of end users including 
contract cleaners and other industrial and 
institutional customers throughout Denmark. 
Revenue in the year ended 30 September 
2009 was DKK60 million. In February we 
expanded further into Denmark with the 
purchase of Hamo, a supplier of catering 
disposables and light catering equipment to  
a variety of end users in both the public and 
private sectors. Revenue in 2009 was DKK43 
million. Both these businesses are excellent 
additions to our existing cleaning and hygiene 
and catering supplies businesses in Denmark 
and have extended our customer base and 
product offering there.
During March we significantly increased the 
size of our operations in Switzerland. The 
acquisition of Weita, a business based near 
Basel with revenue in 2009 of CHF71 million, 
expanded our business into the cleaning and 
safety, foodservice and healthcare consumables 
sectors for the first time and also increased the 
size of our existing retail supplies business.
In April we announced our first step into  
Israel when we purchased Silco, a supplier  
of foodservice disposables to a number of 
different sectors throughout the country, 
including restaurants, caterers and 
redistributors. Revenue in 2009 was ILS64 
million. The business has a market leading 
position and a strong customer base and will 
provide the opportunity to develop further in 
the Israeli market.
Juba, which we acquired in May and had 
revenue in 2009 of €22 million, is a leading 
supplier of personal protection equipment, 
principally protective gloves and other 
workwear, to redistributors throughout Spain.  
It has expanded our personal protection 
equipment business in Spain and has 
strengthened our position in this market  
which we entered in 2008 with the acquisition 
of Marca.
In July we announced the acquisition of  
Global Net based in Belgium with revenue  
in 2009 of €20 million. It is principally 
engaged in the sale of cleaning and hygiene 
consumables and equipment throughout  
the Walloon region of Belgium to contract 
cleaners, local authorities and other industrial 
and institutional customers. As our existing 
business in Belgium is focused on the 
Flanders region, Global Net has extended  
our geographic coverage across the whole  
of the country.
In August we announced two further 
acquisitions. Cool-Pak, which had revenue  
of $51 million in 2009, is an exciting 
development for us as it has increased our 
presence in a specialist area of the food 
processor market in the US. The acquisition  
of A.M. Supply in Brazil has expanded  
our existing personal protection equipment 
business in Brazil and extended our  
product offering into the developing oil  
and petrochemical sectors there. Revenue  
in 2009 was R$7 million.
In October we took a further step to develop 
our successful business in Benelux with the 
acquisition of Van’t Veer Verpakkingen which 
had revenue of €9 million in 2009. The 
company is based in the Netherlands and is 
principally engaged in the sale of cleaning  
and hygiene and catering disposable products 
predominantly to the healthcare sector.
Prospects
Even though the outlook for economic growth 
remains uncertain, we believe that the 
opportunities for further development of the 
Group across our international markets are 
promising. In North America we anticipate 
good underlying revenue growth, albeit lower 
than the relatively high level of 2010, and 
margins should be stable. In the UK & Ireland, 
in spite of the continuing difficult economic 
conditions, especially in Ireland and in those 
businesses selling to the public sector, we 
expect an improved performance. Continental 
Europe should see better underlying revenue 
growth and the full year impact of acquisitions 
made in 2010 will enhance the overall results. 
The Rest of the World should also benefit from 
good underlying revenue growth and 
continued strong performance.
Acquisition growth is a key element of our 
strategy and we saw an improved environment 
for acquisitions in 2010. The pipeline remains 
promising as we continue our discussions with 
a number of potential targets. 
Although there are a number of uncertainties 
in the economies of the markets where we 
compete, the Board believes that our market 
leading positions and our strong cash flow and 
balance sheet should enable the Group to 
grow further.
Michael Roney  
Chief Executive 
28 February 2011
PROFIT MARGIN EXCLUDING
CURRENCY AND ACQUISITIONS %
10 09
6.3 6.3
Profit margin excluding the 
impact of currency and 
current year acquisitions 
but including a pro rata 
part year in respect of prior 
year acquisitions.
10 09
6.4 6.4
PROFIT MARGIN %
Ratio of operating  
profit before intangible 
amortisation and acquisition 
related costs to revenue.
ACQUISITION SPEND £m
6
10 09
126
Consideration paid and 
payable, together with net 
debt assumed, in respect of 
businesses acquired during 
the year.
10 09
(1.1)
0.8
ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH %
Increase in revenue for  
the year excluding the 
impact of currency and 
current year acquisitions  
but including a pro rata part 
year in respect of prior year 
acquisitions. Sales of H1N1 
prevention products in 2009 
reduced the underlying 
organic revenue growth in 
2010 by 1.0% from 1.8%.
ANNUALISED REVENUE
FROM ACQUISITIONS £m
10 09
27
154
Estimated revenue  
which would have been 
contributed by acquisitions 
made during the year if  
such acquisitions had been 
completed at the beginning 
of the relevant year. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 08 chief executive’s review
everyday essentials:
> Uniforms 
> Rubber bands 
> paper cups 
> coffee bags 
> labELs
> NAPKINS 
> Polyethylene bags 
> Bag ties 
>  Plastic fruit 
containers
> vinyl Gloves 
> Paper bags 
> Deli containers
> SANDWICH WRAP 
> CLEANING PRODUCTS
Ou R ‘One st Op shOp’ 
se Rvice t O l ARGe 
GROce Ry Ret Ail 
cust Ome Rs helps  
them simplify the 
eve Ry DAy Runnin G  
Of thei R businesses Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 09
north america In North America revenue increased by 4%  
at constant exchange rates to £2,621.0 million 
primarily due to further sales growth with 
current accounts but also as a result of some 
new business wins. Mix driven impact, 
principally arising from the revenue growth 
with existing customers, placed pressure on 
our margins, resulting in a 1% increase in 
operating profit to £160.2 million.
In our largest business sector, grocery, we 
improved our market leading position by 
retaining and expanding business with our 
current customer base through our primary 
programmes; direct store delivery, cross  
dock and warehouse replenishment. We also 
won additional business from our regional 
competition as we continued to promote  
our menu of services in the market place.
Despite market softness and the uncertain 
economy continuing to exert pressure on  
the foodservice industry during the year, our 
redistribution business experienced growth as 
we expanded our relationships with our larger 
customers and positioned ourselves well with 
major buying groups. As an integral part of our 
‘one stop shop’ concept for our customers, our 
import and private label programmes gained 
momentum as we expanded our product 
offering with custom packaging and product 
enhancements. In addition we invested in 
warehouse systems and equipment to improve 
our small order quantity pick and pack 
operational efficiencies.
Our food processor business services a  
broad range of customers from fresh cut 
produce processors, bakeries and specialty 
processors to a variety of protein processors 
that supply the grocery and foodservice 
industries. We experienced growth in this 
sector due to consumers’ continued demand 
for lower cost and take home solutions that  
are more economical than eating out. In order 
to expand our programmes and sales with  
our current customers and win new business,  
we have broadened the array of personal 
protection equipment and maintenance, repair 
and operations (MRO) parts and packaging 
products that we provide our customers 
through our value added outsourcing solutions. 
We also extended our presence in the market 
through our acquisition of Cool-Pak which 
supplies stock and custom designed pulp  
and plastic containers to fruit and vegetable 
growers, shippers, repackers and other food 
suppliers. Cool-Pak also offers inventory 
management, just-in-time delivery, labelling 
and traceability solutions to its customers.  
In support of our expansion into this sector,  
we entered into an exclusive agreement with 
TRUETRAC™ to distribute LabelTrac™, a 
portable labelling system that takes case level 
traceability out to the grower’s field.
Our non-food retail business continued to  
grow organically by winning a major account  
in Canada and gaining incremental business 
with retailers having existing relationships  
with us. We also continued to benefit from  
a trend among retailers to utilise our expertise 
in their sourcing activities. As such, we were 
able to promote products and ideas that 
helped them meet their specific needs and 
attain their green initiatives through the supply 
of environmentally friendly products.
Our convenience store business experienced 
growth as consumers’ spending increased as 
the year progressed. Outlets in this sector still 
face the significant challenges of an uncertain 
economy, increasingly stiff competition from 
cross channel rivals and rising fuel prices.  
We continued to take steps to grow our sales  
in this sector by increasing the breadth  
of products we offer, including imported 
product alternatives, and by expanding our 
customer base. 
Our strategic sourcing initiatives included 
expanding our preferred supplier relationships 
into all channels of distribution and 
redistribution, utilising our purchasing strength 
and scale to increase our profitability. We also 
expanded our private label product offering, 
incorporating continued product segmentation 
and upgrades, to provide our customers with 
more choices to meet a wide variety of needs. 
Additionally, we continued to monitor green 
issues and have relevant products sourced 
which meet all environmental needs, including 
those which are biodegradable, recyclable and 
compostable. Our new private label line for 
environmentally friendly products, Green 
Source, has been very successful.
During the year we reduced our operating 
costs as a percentage of sales despite some 
operating expense categories, such as 
healthcare, fuel costs and freight rates, 
increasing. We continue to offset these 
escalating costs through increased productivity 
and by fine tuning our operational platform 
and consolidating stand alone facilities in 
select markets in order to optimise operating 
costs while maintaining our high level of 
customer service. 
Although the strength of the economic 
recovery remains uncertain, our consistent 
year on year revenue growth in North America 
in difficult macroeconomic conditions 
demonstrates the resilience and strength of 
our value added proposition to our customers. 
Our strong financial position, single IT system 
and extensive coast to coast operating platform 
continues to address the needs of our customers 
and we remain well positioned not only to meet 
our existing customers’ demands but also to 
take advantage of new business opportunities 
that arise within the markets we serve. Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 10 chief executive’s review
After a very challenging year in 2009, our  
UK & Ireland business area has improved  
its performance in 2010. Persisting difficult 
economic conditions continued to put 
pressure on sales, resulting in a 5% decrease 
in revenue at constant exchange rates to 
£1,007.1 million. However a reduction in  
costs has contributed to an improvement in 
operating margin with operating profit up 3% 
at constant exchange rates to £59.5 million.
All businesses have closely scrutinised their 
resource levels and business processes.  
This has led to a further reduction in the 
number of people employed and the closure  
of some of our warehouses to optimise the 
branch network of our various businesses.
We have also analysed the ranges and 
products that we sell and have rationalised 
product portfolios to suit the needs of our 
customers better. This has resulted in fewer 
stock keeping units (SKUs) which has enabled 
us to build stronger relations with suppliers, 
improve product availability and also further 
develop our own brands and importing activity 
from Asia.
Within the hospitality sector, the market for 
catering disposables has continued to be  
very competitive whilst the demand for more 
durable catering equipment has been relatively 
strong. We are actively developing our own 
brand programme of catering disposables  
and have reduced the operating platform  
by two branches. W.K. Thomas, which we 
acquired in 2009, has integrated well into our 
existing business. In vending, although the 
business has continued to operate in a very 
competitive and demanding environment,  
the implementation of a new IT system has 
been completed and we now have the 
appropriate tools to optimise operating 
efficiencies, giving us the platform to grow  
this business going forward.
Our food and non-food retail business, whilst 
operating under continuous competitive 
pressure, has been resilient. We have made  
a number of operational improvements, 
including streamlining working processes and 
completing the installation of a sophisticated 
warehouse management system, which have 
allowed us to improve our performance and 
our service to our customers. Assisted by  
a number of non-food retail customer wins,  
we believe that we are well positioned from a 
competitive standpoint and that this business 
should continue to develop well.
Within cleaning and safety, our business that 
supplies cleaning and hygiene products had  
a good year against the backdrop of a difficult 
economy. Six of the branches have been 
consolidated into four facilities and the 
reduced operating platform and cost base 
have helped us to continue to be competitive 
and secure ongoing business with a number  
of our key facilities management customers. 
Industrial Supplies, the acquisition we made in 
2009, has been completely integrated and is 
performing well. Our safety supplies business 
has continued to find the markets it serves in 
construction, industry and the public sector to 
be under pressure which has in turn affected 
volumes. We have reacted accordingly by 
further developing our procurement and 
product category management activities  
and consolidating the cost base.
The healthcare business has seen a reduction 
in volumes with challenging trading conditions 
and restrictions on spending imposed by some 
customers as their purchasing budgets have 
been reduced, both affecting demand. This 
was exacerbated by the non-repeat of orders 
related to the outbreak of the H1N1 virus in 
2009. We have reduced the number of 
operating locations by two and have further 
invested in our own brand range of disposable 
gloves which should help to regain business 
and improve our competitiveness in the 
coming year.
In Ireland the economy has continued to be 
extremely difficult. The convenience retail 
market and hotel sector in particular suffered 
downturns and, even though we have 
maintained gross margins, it was necessary to 
implement further reductions in our cost base 
to realign the business with the reduced levels 
of activity.
UK & i reland We supply eve Ry DAy essenti Als 
t O Ou R f OODse Rvice cust Ome Rs 
t O help thei R businesses  
Run smOO thly Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 11
Sodexo’s everyday  
essentials:
> Coffee cups 
> Sugar sachets 
> Paper plates 
>  Sterilising handwash
> Napkins
> Bag ties 
> Paper bags 
> Aluminum foil 
> Cutlery
> Gloves
> Mops & buckets
> Jugs
> Food trays
> Floor signs  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 12 chief executive’s review
continental e Urope Revenue rose 7% at constant exchange rates 
to £936.4 million and operating profit rose 2% 
to £79.9 million. The impact of the absence of 
the significant sales of H1N1 prevention 
products made in 2009 and gross margin 
pressure as customers continued to focus on 
cost reductions was offset by continued tight 
cost control, increased levels of imports and 
the benefit of acquisitions and the resulting 
synergies achieved during the year.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business 
had a challenging year. The economic 
environment continued to be difficult with  
the public sector in particular cutting back 
spending. Together with the lack of sales of 
H1N1 prevention products during 2010, this 
resulted in lower sales although the gross 
margin percentage was stable. Costs were 
reduced during the year but the positive 
impact of these reductions will only be felt fully 
in the current year. The new ERP system is 
now fully implemented and will provide further 
operational efficiencies in the future. Our 
personal protection equipment business  
had a successful year with higher sales  
and profits.
In the Netherlands, sales, grew significantly  
in our business supplying the food and 
non-food retail sectors following customer wins 
and the business servicing the horeca (hotel, 
restaurant and catering) sector returned to 
growth after a difficult year in 2009. However, 
our healthcare business continued to face 
pressure from spending cuts imposed by  
our customers. Overall gross margins and 
costs in the Netherlands continued to be 
tightly managed such that the operating 
margin improved. In October we acquired 
Van’t Veer Verpakkingen which operates in the 
cleaning and hygiene and catering disposable 
sectors. The business is trading in line with 
expectations and delivering the anticipated 
synergy benefits.
In Belgium, sales grew as progress in the retail 
business offset continuing weakness in the 
business supplying the cleaning and hygiene 
sector. Gross margins were under pressure but 
costs continued to be tightly controlled. In July 
we acquired Global Net which sells cleaning 
and hygiene consumables and equipment 
throughout the Walloon region of Belgium. The 
acquisition is delivering significant synergies 
with our existing operations.
In Germany, sales grew strongly in the horeca 
sector and revenues from guest amenities rose 
again as the hotel sector recovered. Continued 
tight cost control could not however fully offset 
the impact of gross margin pressure.
In Switzerland, we acquired in March the 
Weita business which operates in the cleaning 
and safety, foodservice, retail and healthcare 
consumables sectors. It is integrating well into 
the Group and has delivered profits ahead of 
our initial expectations.
In Denmark, sales were ahead in our retail 
business and its operating margin improved 
due to cost reductions. Our horeca business 
also delivered good sales growth and 
increased its operating margin principally due 
to the full year benefit of its new, more efficient 
warehouse. Hamo, a supplier of catering 
disposables and light catering equipment 
which was acquired in February 2010, has 
been fully integrated resulting in significant 
savings. Clean Care, a distributor of cleaning 
and hygiene consumables and equipment 
acquired in January 2010, continues to 
operate from its own warehouse and is also 
delivering significant commercial synergies 
with our existing business.
In Spain, our cleaning and hygiene business 
saw a slight decline in sales in a continuing 
challenging economy. Gross margins improved 
and operating costs were reduced, resulting  
in good growth in operating profit. Our  
safety business delivered strong sales and 
profit growth despite ongoing weakness in  
the construction and industrial sectors which  
it serves. The acquisition in May of Juba,  
a specialist in protective gloves, has 
complemented our existing business and  
is providing opportunities both in terms of 
increased sales and improved purchasing. 
In central Europe, a return to stronger sales 
growth and further cost reductions led to a 
significant increase in profit in our cleaning 
and hygiene business. Sales declined, 
however, in the retail business but profit was 
slightly ahead as a result of the positive impact 
of cost reduction measures.
In Israel we acquired the foodservice 
disposables business, Silco, in April as a first 
step into this new market which has exciting 
development prospects. It is integrating well 
into the Group.
NH Hoteles’  
everyday essentials:
> Guest amenities 
> Slippers 
> Take away lunch boxes 
> Napkins 
> Drink stirrers 
> Bin liners 
> Toilet rolls 
> Tea bags and coffee 
> Teaspoons 
> Washing detergent 
> Pens 
> Sponges 
> Washing up brushes 
> Laundry bags 
> Bedside books 
> Coasters  Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 13
by pROvi Din G A WiDe RAn Ge  
Of pRODucts f OR h Otel s, 
inclu Din G cle Anin G pRODucts 
An D besp OKe Guest Amenities , 
We c An ensu Re they h Ave 
eveR ythin G they neeD Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 14 chief executive’s review
Ou R RAn Ge Of 
pe RsO n Al pRO tecti On 
equipment helps Ou R 
cust Ome Rs m Aint Ain 
hi Gh st An DARDs Of 
he Alth & s Afety EVERYDAY ESSENTIALS:
> STEEL TOECAP BOOTS 
> LIFE JACKETS 
> SAFETY GLASSES 
> HARD HATS 
> PROTECTIVE GLOVES 
> EAR PLUGS 
> HARNESSES 
> FACE MASKS 
> EAR PROTECTORS 
> SHIRTS AND TROUSERS Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 chief executive’s review 15
In the Rest of the World revenue increased  
by 4% at constant exchange rates to £265.1 
million. Strong underlying growth in Brazil and 
a substantial improvement in operating margins 
in Australasia resulted in a 19% improvement 
in operating profit to £23.8 million. 
In Australasia our largest business, 
Outsourcing Services, performed strongly, 
benefiting from some solid second half sales 
gains and good gross margin improvements. 
We continue to develop a strong position in  
our key markets, such as healthcare, contract 
catering and cleaning. In addition we are 
developing the business in New Zealand by 
building momentum with regional customers 
there. As a result of our continued investment 
in systems, some 45% of all orders in this 
business are now dealt with electronically.
Our food processor business had another 
challenging year, feeling the effects of 
slowdowns in some of our major customers 
whose own export business contracted due  
to the stronger Australian dollar, although sales 
began to recover as the year progressed. The 
recently completed implementation of the main 
IT system throughout the business will enable 
us to benefit from operational improvements  
in freight and inventory management systems 
as well as facilitate electronic ordering for 
customers and suppliers. 
Our catering equipment business continued to 
be affected by the downturn in the hospitality 
and catering sectors, in particular in New 
South Wales and North Queensland. The 
business benefited from some new business 
wins during the year and ongoing operational 
and service improvements implemented in 
2009. This, combined with lower operating 
costs, enabled us to deliver results which  
were again well up on last year’s improved 
performance. Our goal is to expand our branch 
coverage in this sector to capitalise on national 
customers in this market sector.
Operationally the business in Australasia has 
strengthened its position in the region by 
investing in establishing a consolidation 
warehouse in China. This will fast track future 
sourcing initiatives while reducing the costs 
associated with double handling on freight 
transfers for all business units in the region.
In Brazil we saw strong growth in both revenue 
and operating profit as the economy there 
rebounded from a relatively weak 2009.  
We expanded further into the markets we serve 
as the new branches opened during the last 
two years experienced profitable growth. In 
August we acquired A.M. Supply which is 
based in the northern part of the state of Rio 
de Janeiro and will enable us to benefit from 
the ongoing significant investments being 
made in offshore oil and gas exploration and 
the petrochemical sector.
r est of the world
