 10      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OpeRAtin G peRFORmAn Ce
The positive momentum from 2010 continued 
in 2011 as we had another successful year  
due to a combination of organic growth, good 
performance from the acquisitions made in 
2010 and increased acquisition spend during 
the year.
Although some currencies, notably the euro, 
were marginally stronger than in 2010, the 
translation effects of the weaker US dollar  
and overall currency movements have slightly 
reduced the reported growth rates of revenue 
and operating profit. The operations, including 
the relevant growth rates, are therefore 
reviewed below at constant exchange rates to 
remove the distorting impact of these currency 
movements. Changes in the level of revenue 
and profits at constant exchange rates have 
been calculated by retranslating the results  
for 2010 at the average rates used for 2011. 
Unless otherwise stated, all references in this 
review to operating profit are to operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs. 
Revenue increased 7% (6% at actual exchange 
rates) to £5,109.5 million and operating profit 
was £335.7 million, an increase of 10% (9% at 
actual exchange rates). The percentage growth 
in operating profit was greater than that of 
revenue due to the improvement in operating 
margins in all business areas which has 
resulted in a 20 basis point improvement  
in Group operating margin to 6.6%. 
In North America revenue rose 7% (4% at 
actual exchange rates) due to strong organic 
growth and the impact of Cool-Pak and 
Netpak, which we acquired in August 2010 
and July 2011 respectively, while operating 
profit increased 9% (6% at actual exchange 
rates). Revenue in Continental Europe rose 
12% (14% at actual exchange rates) as a result 
of good organic growth and the impact of 
acquisitions completed in 2010 and 2011 and 
operating profit was up 17% (20% at actual 
exchange rates). In UK & Ireland revenue 
decreased by 1% at both constant and actual 
exchange rates primarily due to the persisting 
difficult economic conditions and weakness  
in some businesses. However operating profit 
rose 1% at both constant and actual exchange 
rates due to the positive impact of earlier cost 
reduction initiatives, product mix improvements 
in some businesses and the disposal of 
vending. In Rest of the World revenue 
increased 12% (20% at actual exchange rates) 
and operating profit was up 13% (19% at 
actual exchange rates) due to both good 
organic growth and the impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were lower at 38.2p 
(2010: 49.1p) due to the loss on disposal of the 
vending business but adjusted earnings per 
share, after eliminating the effect of intangible 
amortisation, acquisition related costs and the 
loss on disposal of vending, were 68.5p (2010: 
60.6p), an increase of 13% at both constant 
and actual exchange rates. Return on average 
operating capital increased from 54.4% to 57 .4% 
due to the improvement in operating margin and 
continued good working capital management.
Cash flow remained strong, with cash 
generated from operations of £390.1 million 
which was partly used to finance a cash 
outflow for acquisitions of £161.3 million and 
net capital expenditure of £20.9 million. Net 
debt at the year end was £652.9 million 
compared to £716.8 million at the end of 2010. 
Our net debt to EBITDA ratio reduced to 1.7 
times compared to 2.1 times at the previous 
year end. 
The efficiency of our operations has been 
further evidenced this year by the reduction, 
relative to revenue, of our Scope 1 and 2 
carbon emissions. This has been achieved by  
a continued focus on the sustainability of our 
business, specifically by continuing to review 
the footprint of our facilities and installing 
energy saving equipment within them and 
using effective route planning and appropriate 
vehicles in those businesses which operate 
their own transport fleets. Our consolidated 
delivery of products supports our customers’ 
efforts to reduce their environmental impact 
and this is further enhanced by our ever 
increasing offering of more environmentally 
friendly products.
ACquiS iti OnS
During the year we announced ten acquisitions 
and committed to spend £185 million.
We expanded our business supplying catering 
equipment and disposables in Australia 
through the acquisition of Omega Hospitality in 
March and Hospitality Depot in May. Together 
these businesses have annualised revenue of 
approximately A$27 million and have allowed 
us to penetrate further in this sector in New 
South Wales and Queensland.
Against the background of 
challenging macroeconomic 
conditions, Bunzl has achieved 
excellent results. As a focused 
organisation we have again 
demonstrated the strength 
and depth of our customer 
proposition and shown our 
ability to grow and develop 
both organically and by 
acquisition in the markets 
in which we compete.
michael Roney 
Chief Executive BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      11 
At the end of March we acquired the business 
of Cannon Consumables which is principally 
engaged in the supply of cleaning and hygiene 
consumable products throughout the UK. 
Revenue for the year ended 31 March 2011 
was £16 million.
During May we purchased King Espana 
which is a leading distributor of foodservice 
disposables and cleaning and hygiene supplies 
to the catering and cleaning sectors throughout 
Spain and has established a presence for 
Bunzl in Madrid and Valencia as well as 
reinforcing our business in Barcelona. Revenue 
was €29 million in 2010. In May we also 
completed the acquisition of the SIG Safety and 
Workwear business, a leading distributor of 
personal protection equipment and workwear 
to a variety of market sectors in the UK with 
revenue in 2010 of £22 million. The business 
complements and has expanded our existing 
business in the UK serving these markets.
Netpak, with revenue of C$12 million in the  
year ended 30 June 2011, was acquired in July. 
Based in Canada, the business specialises in the 
supply of packaging supplies and equipment for 
both food and non-food products to a number  
of different sectors, including fruit and vegetable 
growers, and complements the business of 
Cool-Pak which was acquired in the US during 
the second half of the previous year.
The acquisition of Majestic Products and  
its associated businesses, which had revenue 
of €62 million in 2010, was completed in 
September and has extended our operations  
in the Netherlands into the personal protection 
equipment and safety sectors and expanded 
our safety supplies business in the US while at 
the same time providing a platform to develop 
the business further in Belgium and Germany. 
In September we also acquired Ideal in Brazil 
which had revenue in 2010 of R$42 million 
and is a leading supplier of cleaning and 
hygiene consumable products. This was an 
important step for Bunzl as it expanded our 
business in Brazil into the cleaning and hygiene 
sector for the first time. The acquisition of 
D-Care in the Netherlands, also in September, 
strengthened our healthcare business there. 
Revenue in 2010 was €5 million.
In November we completed the acquisition of 
Danny which was our fourth acquisition in the 
Brazilian market since we entered the country 
in 2008. The business, which had revenue in 
2010 of R$56 million and is growing strongly, 
is a leading supplier of personal protection 
equipment and complements our existing 
personal protection equipment operations 
in Brazil.
Today we are announcing the acquisition of 
CDW Merchants in the US. With revenue of 
$12 million in 2011, the business is engaged  
in the sale of retail gift packaging and visual 
merchandising solutions and products to the 
specialty retail and online retailing sectors and 
will complement our existing non-food retail 
supplies business in North America.
DiSpOSAl
In August we sold our vending business  
which was based in the UK and was no longer 
considered to be a strategic fit within the Group. 
Revenue in 2010 was £68 million. We believed 
that the funds generated from the disposal 
would be more usefully employed in our core, 
higher return and higher growth businesses.
pROSpeCt S
Even though the outlook for economic growth 
remains uncertain, especially for Europe, we 
believe that our resilient business model and 
strong market position will provide further 
opportunities for the development of the Group. 
In North America we expect continued strong 
organic growth with stable operating margins. 
In Continental Europe, while we anticipate 
lower organic growth compared to 2011 as  
a result of the reduced economic growth 
forecasts for many European economies,  
we will benefit from the positive impact of  
the acquisitions completed in 2011. In UK  
& Ireland, in spite of the ongoing sluggish 
economy, we expect to see an improved 
performance this year. Rest of the World 
should experience strong organic growth and 
the full year impact of the acquisitions made  
in 2011 will enhance the overall results.
Acquisition growth continues to be a key part 
of our strategy. The pipeline for acquisitions is 
promising as we continue discussions with a 
number of potential targets.
Despite the continuing economic uncertainties, 
the Board believes that our business will 
continue to grow and develop due to our strong 
market position, our consistent cash flow and 
the numerous opportunities we have to 
consolidate further the markets in which 
we compete.
michael Roney
Chief Executive
27 February 2012
mAnAGement te Am
Managers from across the 
Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek 
further opportunities for growth 
and competitive advantage.
patrick l armon
President and CEO  
North America
n ancy l ester
Director of Corporate  
Development
Celia baxter
Director of Group  
Human Resources
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director  
Continental Europe
brian may
Finance Director
paul Hussey
General Counsel and  
Company Secretary
paul budge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director  
Australasia 12      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
NORTH AmERICA 
9% 
Increase in operating 
profit at constant 
exchange rates with 
improvement in 
operating margin.
In North America revenue increased by 7%  
to £2,727.9 million due to both sales growth 
with existing customers and new business 
wins, particularly in our largest business sector, 
grocery, and some product price increases. 
This sales growth, together with the impact of 
our margin enhancement programmes and cost 
saving initiatives, contributed to a 9% increase 
in operating profit to £169.2 million.
We continued to expand in grocery by 
increasing our business with existing accounts 
as well as adding new customers, including 
one of the largest retailers in North America. 
Our ability to provide direct store delivery, cross 
dock or warehouse replenishment programmes 
continues to provide us with new opportunities. 
Activity levels in the foodservice sector 
improved during the year, contributing to 
increased sales in our redistribution business. 
Additionally, new programmes for imported 
items and private label and new products 
expanded our position with several national 
foodservice customers as well as others 
operating in different sectors. Our one stop 
shop approach, on time delivery programme, 
availability of products and committed sales 
teams have all contributed to increased sales. 
Our suppliers have also taken advantage of our 
efficient warehouse network and dependable 
delivery system to handle their smaller, less 
than truckload, accounts.
Our food processor business continued to 
deliver strong sales gains as the result of new 
customer wins, increased product penetration 
within existing accounts and innovative 
products and systems to help our customers 
become more cost competitive and efficient  
on the production side. The installation of our 
first carousel picking system in R3 Safety has 
contributed to warehouse efficiencies and has 
also allowed us to handle more small and 
individual items needed by many of our 
customers. We continue to service a broad 
range of customers including meat processors, 
fresh cut produce processors, bakeries, home 
meal processors and other specialty food 
processors in all areas of the foodservice 
supply chain. Cool-Pak, acquired in 2010, has 
been successfully integrated and has opened 
up new opportunities for us in the field pack 
produce market as well as new geographical 
areas such as Mexico for these types of 
products and the recent acquisition of Netpak 
has further expanded our business in this 
sector. We continue to invest in traceability 
products since this is becoming an important 
part of the food processor safety initiative. 
The non-food retail business continued to grow 
with several new customer wins during the 
year, the introduction of new and unique 
packaging designs and products for a variety  
of retailers and incremental business with our 
existing customers. We continue to use our 
import and global sourcing capabilities to  
find packaging solutions that will help our 
customers market their own products as well 
as address environmental issues through the 
use of additional green products and initiatives. 
Our ability to partner with other Group 
companies in Europe and Australasia is an 
advantage that we use to develop and supply 
new packaging concepts and the acquisition  
of CDW Merchants in February 2012 will 
further extend our customer base, particularly 
in the specialty and online retail sectors. 
Despite higher fuel costs impacting consumers 
throughout the year and increased competition 
from cross channel distributors, our 
convenience store sector experienced strong 
sales growth. Our well trained and experienced 
sales force has worked closely with the large 
convenience store chains to provide services 
and products that respond to their needs and 
those of the customers they serve. Additionally 
we have developed several programmes with 
suppliers to provide some small retail products 
to these chains.
Our strategic sourcing initiative has once again 
helped us to strengthen our relationships with 
our preferred suppliers resulting in the 
development of unique programmes and 
products which have contributed to more 
competitive prices for our customers. We also 
continue to expand our range of private label 
products and import product lines to provide a 
number of different options for our customers 
and meet the needs of all of the sectors we 
service. Investment in our state of the art 
consolidation warehouse in Shanghai has 
continued and we have further developed our 
resources there which enable us to provide 
comprehensive quality control services and 
audit our suppliers. This has improved our 
marketing abilities when presenting to 
prospective customers as we can provide such 
services to many of our customers who do not 
have the same capabilities. 
Despite continuing increases in fuel, freight  
and healthcare expenses, our operating costs 
decreased as a percentage of sales principally 
due to the revenue growth and several cost 
reduction initiatives implemented during the 
year including further consolidation of facilities. 
New warehouse technology and equipment 
such as the carousel system in our R3 Safety 
business and increased opportunities for 
freight backhaul revenue from our suppliers 
have contributed to this decrease. Additionally 
our safety statistics improved during the year 
which resulted in less lost time throughout the 
warehouse network.
Our value proposition, single IT platform, strong 
financial position and coast to coast distribution 
network continue to position us well to meet 
the future needs of our customers in all of our 
market sectors. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      13 
Revenue rose by 12% to £1,067.1 million  
and operating profit rose 17% to £95.6 million. 
Overall our businesses delivered good organic 
sales growth and continued tight cost control 
offset the impact of ongoing pricing pressure  
in our markets, thereby improving our operating 
margins. The business area also benefited from 
the impact of acquisitions and the associated 
synergies which have been achieved.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business 
saw a return to modest sales growth after a 
decline in 2010. Although the healthcare and 
public sectors in particular have been under 
some pressure due to spending cuts which 
continue to impact our business, the cost 
reduction measures undertaken during 2010 
and in early 2011 have led to an improvement 
in operating profit. Our personal protection 
equipment business enjoyed robust sales growth, 
in particular from increasing our share of business 
with a number of larger customers, leading to 
an increase in operating profit.
In the Netherlands, sales grew significantly in  
our businesses supplying the food and non-food 
retail sectors as well as in healthcare although 
the horeca (hotel, restaurant and catering) sector 
continues to be more challenging. Van’t Veer 
Verpakkingen, acquired in October 2010, has 
integrated well into our existing healthcare 
business. In September we acquired D-Care 
which distributes medical disposable products  
to the healthcare sector. This acquisition 
significantly enhances our position in healthcare 
and has traded ahead of expectations.
In September we also completed the 
acquisition of Majestic Products in the 
Netherlands and its associated companies  
in Belgium, Germany and the US which are 
principally engaged in the supply of personal 
protection equipment and safety products.  
The businesses have continued to deliver 
strong sales and profit growth since acquisition 
and are integrating well into the Group.
In Belgium, we recorded sales growth in both 
the cleaning and hygiene and retail sectors. 
Margin pressure, particularly in the public and 
healthcare sectors, was partially offset by the 
full year impact of synergies generated from 
the July 2010 acquisition of Global Net which 
continues to outperform expectations at the 
time of acquisition.
In Germany, sales grew well, especially  
with larger accounts and in the hotel, bakery 
and wholesale sectors which, together with 
some cost benefits particularly relating to 
improved transport efficiencies, resulted in 
improved profits.
In Switzerland, our business which we  
acquired in March 2010 has delivered strong 
sales growth in the medical and industrial 
sectors and good growth in the horeca sector, 
more than offsetting some weakness in retail. 
Margins have benefited from the strengthening 
of the Swiss franc although this has partly  
held back sales growth in recent months.  
Costs have been tightly controlled, further 
contributing to the significant improvement  
in operating profits.
In Denmark, sales growth has been modest  
in retail consumables and safety products  
and strong in horeca disposables. Further  
cost reduction measures from warehouse 
integrations have led to a significant 
improvement in operating margins.
In Spain, sales growth in cleaning and hygiene 
has been modest with some margin pressure  
in continuing challenging economic 
circumstances. The acquisition of King Espana 
in May significantly increased our coverage in 
the cleaning and hygiene market and improved 
our position in horeca. The business is 
integrating well into the Group. Although our 
safety business has seen volume declines,  
it has managed to pass on significant raw 
material price rises which helped to improve 
operating margins during the course of the year.
In central Europe, growth in the cleaning  
and hygiene and safety sectors was offset  
by a decline in the retail sector as some  
larger customers sourced directly from 
manufacturers. However, towards the end of 
the year we saw the first signs for some years 
of retailers investing in new stores in the region. 
Operating margins improved due to further  
cost reductions in what remains a difficult 
economic environment.
In Israel, Silco, our horeca disposables 
business has delivered strong sales growth 
from some new customer wins and has 
improved operating margins such that  
profits are well ahead of expectations.
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
£1,067m 
Record level of sales as 
business area revenue 
exceeds £1 billion for 
the first time. 14      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
CHIEF Ex ECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
Our businesses in UK & Ireland have continued 
to focus on margins and operating costs to 
counter the lower demand we are experiencing 
in certain sectors of the market due to the 
difficult trading environment which many of our 
customers are currently facing. The pressure 
on sales has led to a 1% decline in revenue  
to £996.6 million although operating profit 
increased 1% to £60.2 million. Working capital 
has again been tightly managed resulting in 
strong cash flows.
In spite of lower levels of demand, we have 
seen inflationary pressures which have resulted 
in rising fuel costs and price increases on 
products purchased from most sources of 
supply. We have worked hard to pass these 
increases on to our customers in a difficult 
market in order to minimise the impact on 
margins. We continue to examine and 
rationalise our operating platform. As leases 
have come to an end, we have been able to 
reduce the warehouse footprint further. 
Our portfolio of hospitality businesses has 
been simplified with the sale of the vending 
operations which had revenue of £42 million 
and made no contribution to profits in 2011. 
This leaves us focused solely on the activity 
of distribution to our customers. The catering 
disposables business has performed well 
through developing its own exclusive brands 
which have proved attractive to the market. 
This programme has helped to retain 
customers and relieve the pressure on  
margins. Our catering equipment business has 
performed well, helped by increased levels of 
direct marketing and continued development 
of our range of imported products.
In our food retail business we have seen 
reduced levels of trading with some customers, 
particularly in the latter part of the year, and 
customers are seeking lower prices and more 
efficient solutions. However we have been able 
to respond to these demands and achieved 
good results which were bolstered by winning 
a major new account which helped to offset 
lower sales with other customers. Our non-food 
retail packaging business has continued to 
develop well. Although its customer base on 
the high street is facing significant challenges, 
strong performances from existing customers 
together with some good new customer wins 
have helped the overall results.
In cleaning and safety, a decline in spend by 
both the public sector and the construction 
market has been offset by strong demand from 
key contract cleaning customers. Our safety 
supplies business has needed to make further 
cuts to its cost base in response to the weaker 
market and is now well positioned to target 
fresh opportunities. The two acquisitions which 
we completed during the year, SIG Safety and 
Workwear and Cannon Consumables, have 
been successfully integrated into the Group 
and helped to enhance our existing businesses 
through new customer relationships and 
product procurement synergies.
The healthcare business continues to operate 
in an environment which is strongly affected 
by government spending constraints. Constant 
tender activity has commoditised a number 
of product ranges which has put pressure on 
margins but to counter this we have continued 
to expand our range of own label branded 
products that have an established reputation 
for quality in the medical and surgical 
consumables market.
In Ireland our businesses have been able  
to stabilise sales in 2011 and an improvement 
in margins and a reduction in costs led to an 
increase in profitability which is a creditable 
performance in a very difficult market. 
Achieving some growth in our market share 
and an improvement in tourism has helped to 
grow the hospitality supplies business and new 
customer wins have increased our penetration 
of the contract cleaning sector. These two 
strong performances have offset the continued 
decline in the convenience retail and 
redistribution sectors. We have also worked 
closely with chosen suppliers and further 
developed our range of imported and own  
label products which has helped relieve some 
of the pressure on margins.
UK & IRELAND 
66.4% 
Return on operating 
capital, the highest of all 
of the business areas. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      15 
In Rest of the World revenue increased 12% to 
£317.9 million while operating profit rose 13% 
to £28.4 million. Both Australasia and Brazil 
experienced good organic revenue growth and 
improvements in operating margins with the 
results also boosted by the impact 
of acquisitions.
In Australasia our largest business, Outsourcing 
Services, which supplies the healthcare, 
cleaning and catering sectors continued to 
perform strongly and delivered excellent results. 
The business has successfully grown market 
share and in particular made significant inroads 
into the supply of medical consumables into 
existing healthcare customers, further 
consolidating the supply chain. Although our 
food processor business performed below 
expectations, it made good progress with new 
business gains in the last quarter of the year 
with non-meat food processors and this should 
help drive momentum in 2012. The business 
has also made significant improvements in its 
operational platform following the implementation 
of the main IT system in late 2010. Our catering 
equipment businesses had a better year, with 
some new business wins with quick service 
restaurant customers and the introduction of our 
own label branded products helping the results. 
In September we successfully implemented the 
first of our catering equipment businesses onto 
the main IT platform. The remaining businesses 
will now follow in 2012 and this will improve our 
capability to trade electronically with customers 
and suppliers and become more efficient 
operationally. Our two newly acquired 
businesses, Omega Hospitality and Hospitality 
Depot, are integrating well. Their additional scale 
has created improved buying opportunities 
which will benefit margins for all of our branches 
in this sector.
To facilitate the growth in New South Wales we 
are investing in a new distribution centre near 
Sydney where we will consolidate all of our 
businesses in the area as their individual leases 
expire. This will bring significant operational 
efficiencies and facilitate future growth in 
Australia’s most populated region. During the 
year we made further enhancements to our 
Shanghai consolidation facilities with 
improvements to our systems and supply 
chain. In 2012 we plan to expand these 
operations into Southern China which will 
provide similar efficiencies for our supplier 
network in this region. These initiatives remain 
a source of competitive advantage enabling 
faster implementation of new product 
categories while enabling more effective  
use of working capital.
In Brazil we continued to show strong growth  
in both revenue and operating profit, despite 
the distortions in the economic environment 
due to high interest rates and a very strong 
real, as a result of good organic growth and the 
impact of acquisitions. The business expanded 
significantly during the second half of the year 
as a result of two acquisitions. Ideal, which  
was acquired in September, has extended our 
business into the cleaning and hygiene sector 
for the first time and has provided a platform 
for us to develop a strong presence in this 
sector in Brazil. Danny, which was completed 
in November, has substantially expanded our 
personal protection equipment business in 
the region.
REST OF  
THE WORLD 
12% 
Increase in revenue at 
constant exchange rates 
due to good organic 
growth and impact 
from acquisitions. 16      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      17 
TRUSTED 
SUPPLIER
As a critical supplier of everyday 
essential items, our customers 
rely on our sourcing expertise, 
the depth and breadth of  
our product offering and the 
service that we provide from  
our extensive network of 
distribution facilities. CONSISTENT 
GROWTH
Over the last 10 years we have 
delivered year on year increases 
in operating profit and dividends 
through a consistent strategy  
of developing the business  
by organic growth, improved 
operating efficiencies and 
acquisitions. During this period 
we have extended both our 
range of service and our global 
reach from 1 1 countries to  
23 countries.
CHICAGO, USA PARIS, FRANCE
18      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1 SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA LONDON, UK 
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      19  20      BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1
ONE STOP 
SHOP
We support businesses 
everywhere by providing a 
consolidated product offering  
of goods our customers need  
to run their businesses. From 
coffee stirrers, floor cleaning 
materials and safety equipment 
to retail packaging supplies and 
healthcare consumables, we 
provide a one stop shop solution 
for everything they require. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 201 1      21 
