 10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
The Group once again had a successful year in 2012 due to a 
combination of organic growth, good performance from the acquisitions 
made in 2011 and increased acquisition spend during the year.
Although some currencies, notably the US dollar, were marginally stronger 
than in 2011, the translation effects of the weaker euro and overall 
currency movements have reduced the reported growth rates of revenue 
and operating proﬁt. The operations, including the relevant growth rates, 
are reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the distorting 
impact of these currency movements. Changes in the level of revenue and 
proﬁts at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating 
the results for 2011 at the average rates used for 2012. Unless otherwise 
stated, all references in this review to operating proﬁt are to operating 
proﬁt before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
Revenue increased 6% (5% at actual exchange rates) to £5,359.2 million 
and operating proﬁt was £352.4 million, an increase of 7% (5% at actual 
exchange rates). The percentage growth in operating proﬁt at constant 
exchange rates was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in 
Group operating margin by 10 basis points to 6.6% as a result of the impact 
of acquisitions and the sale of the UK vending business in August 2011. 
In North America revenue rose 6% (7% at actual exchange rates) due to 
good organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions completed 
in 2011 and 2012, while operating proﬁt increased 8% (9% at actual 
exchange rates). Revenue in Continental Europe rose 8% (1% at actual 
exchange rates) as a result of some organic revenue growth and the 
impact of acquisitions but operating proﬁt was down 2% (8% at actual 
exchange rates) as margins came under pressure. In UK & Ireland 
revenue was ﬂat at both constant and actual exchange rates primarily 
due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of relatively small 
acquisitions being more than offset by the impact of the sale of vending 
during the second half of 2011. However operating proﬁt rose 8% at both 
constant and actual exchange rates due to the positive impact of cost 
reduction initiatives, product mix improvements in some businesses and 
the disposal of vending. In Rest of the World revenue increased 23% 
(20% at actual exchange rates) and operating proﬁt was up 22% (17%  
at actual exchange rates) due to both excellent organic revenue growth 
and the impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were 61% higher (57% at actual exchange rates) 
at 59.9p due to the signiﬁcant impact in 2011 of the loss on disposal of 
the vending business. Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the 
effect of intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the disposal 
of vending, were 71.8p, an increase of 7% (5% at actual exchange rates). 
Although the underlying return on average operating capital increased,  
the overall return decreased slightly from 57.4% to 56.4% due to the 
recent acquisitions currently having a lower return on operating capital 
than the rest of the Group.
Our operating cash ﬂow continued to be strong. Despite an acquisition 
cash outﬂow of £254.7 million and net capital expenditure of £20.2 
million, our year end net debt of £738.1 million was only £85.2 million 
higher than at the end of 2011. The net debt to EBITDA ratio increased 
marginally to 1.8 times compared to 1.7 times at the previous year end. 
Our continued focus on the sustainability of our business has once again 
led to a further reduction, relative to revenue, of our Scope 1 and 2 carbon 
emissions. This has been achieved partly as a result of further investment 
in energy efﬁcient lighting systems in our facilities and the introduction 
MANAGEMENT TEAM
Managers from across the 
Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and  
seek further opportunities for 
growth and competitive  
advantage.
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO North America
Celia Baxter
Director of Group Human Resources
Brian May 
Finance Director
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director Continental Europe
Andrew Mooney
Director of Corporate Development
Rodrigo Mascarenhas
Managing Director South America
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director Australasia
Paul Hussey
General Counsel and Company 
Secretary
Paul Budge
Managing Director UK & Ireland
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
‘ BUNZL HAS AGAIN DEMONSTRATED THE 
STRENGTH OF ITS VALUE PROPOSITION 
AND SHOWN ITS ABILITY TO DEVELOP 
BOTH IN EXISTING AND NEW MARKETS.’
Michael Roney
Chief Executive
Having been Director of Corporate Development since 1999, 
Nancy Lester left Bunzl at the beginning of 2013. We thank her for 
her valuable contribution and wish her all the very best for the future. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 11
within our transport ﬂeet of a number of vehicles which have lower 
emissions. The health, safety and well-being of our staff remains a key 
feature of the way in which we operate.
ACQUISITIONS
Our committed acquisition spend in 2012 of £272 million was the highest 
level since 2004 with 13 transactions announced.
In February we acquired the business of CDW Merchants. Based in Chicago, 
the business is principally engaged in the sale of retail gift packaging and 
visual merchandising solutions and products to the specialty retail and 
online retailing sectors throughout the US. Revenue in the year ended  
31 December 2011 was US$12 million. The business, which works  
closely with its customers to increase brand appeal and consumer loyalty 
through innovative gift packaging concepts and merchandising displays, 
complements our existing non-food retail supplies business in North 
America and extends our customer base, particularly in the specialty  
and online retail sector. 
We acquired three businesses at the end of April. FoodHandler, also 
based in Chicago, is a leading supplier of a broad range of disposable 
gloves and other foodhandling products to the foodservice sector 
throughout the US. Revenue in the year ended 31 December 2011 
was US$99 million. The business enhances our existing foodservice 
operations in North America and expands our product offering and 
import programme in this sector. Based near Tel Aviv, Zahav is a leading 
distributor of packaging supplies to the foodservice sector throughout 
Israel. Revenue in the year ended 31 December 2011 was ILS66 million. 
This is our second acquisition in Israel which is a market we entered in 
2010 with the purchase of Silco. It has a strong and broad customer base, 
especially in the bakery sector, and signiﬁcantly increases the size of 
our business in that country. The Group also purchased in April the 
Queensland based redistribution operations of Star Services International 
in Australia. Based in Brisbane and Cairns, the business is engaged in 
the supply of foodservice disposable products to wholesalers and 
redistributors throughout Queensland. Revenue for the year ended 
30 June 2012 was A$12 million. The acquisition complements our 
existing foodservice supplies operations in Queensland and will allow 
us to penetrate further into the redistribution sector of this market.
Based near Seattle, Service Paper was purchased in June. The business 
is principally engaged in the distribution of disposable supplies to the 
grocery, foodservice, food processor and industrial packaging sectors 
throughout the Paciﬁc Northwest. Revenue of the business acquired for 
the year ended 31 December 2011 was US$61 million. The business, 
which has a reputation for providing high levels of customer service, will 
expand our existing business in the region. 
At the end of June we acquired Distrimondo which is based near Zurich 
and is principally engaged in the distribution of foodservice disposables 
and cleaning and hygiene products throughout Switzerland. Revenue in 
the year ended 31 December 2011 was CHF17 million. The acquisition 
extends our operations in Switzerland which is a key market that we 
entered in 2010 with the purchase of Weita.
The acquisition of Indigo Concept Packaging was completed in October. 
Indigo is based in the UK and is principally engaged in the sale of quality 
retail packaging products to a variety of customers. Revenue in the year 
ended 31 December 2011 was £6 million. 
At the end of October we acquired Atlas Health Care in Australia. Based 
in Adelaide, the business is principally engaged in the supply of medical 
consumables to the healthcare sector and gives us an enhanced market 
position in this growing sector. Revenue in the year ended 30 June 2012 
was A$22 million.
In December we entered into agreements to acquire ﬁve businesses. 
Based near Toronto, McCordick Glove & Safety is a distributor of gloves 
and other personal protection equipment to a variety of industrial and 
retail customers as well as to redistributors. It has enabled us to enter  
the personal protection equipment sector in Canada and enhances the 
Company’s existing safety product offering. Revenue in the year ended 
31 December 2011 was C$53 million. Vicsa Safety in Chile and its 
subsidiaries based in Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Mexico specialise 
in the sourcing and sale of a variety of personal protection equipment 
throughout the region. The aggregate revenue of the Vicsa businesses in 
2012 was US$65 million of which more than half was accounted for by 
the business in Chile. At the same time we entered into an agreement to 
purchase Vicsa Brasil which was completed earlier this month following 
clearance from the Brazilian Competition Authority. Revenue in 2012 
was US$9 million. The acquisition of the Vicsa businesses is an exciting 
development for us as they expand our operations in South America 
outside Brazil into four new countries as well as extending our business 
in Mexico into the safety sector. In December we also acquired Destiny 
Packaging in the US which had revenue in 2012 of US$52 million. 
Based in Monterey, California, Destiny Packaging is a leading distributor 
of ﬂexible packaging supplies, principally produce bags, to fruit and 
vegetable growers throughout California and Arizona and complements 
both Cool-Pak and Netpak which we acquired in 2010 and 2011 
respectively. Together these three businesses give us an increasing 
presence in the market of innovative packaging solutions for both growers 
and food retailers in North America. Finally the Company purchased 
Schwarz Paper Company in the US at the end of December. Based in 
Chicago and operating from 14 locations, Schwarz Paper Company is 
principally engaged in the provision of consumables and supply chain 
solutions for the non-food retail and grocery sectors. It signiﬁcantly 
increases the size of our non-food retail business and will further enhance 
the Company’s market leading position in the grocery sector. Revenue 
of the acquired business in the year ended 30 September 2012 was 
US$363 million. 
The acquisition of McNeil Surgical in Australia was completed at the 
beginning of February 2013. With revenue of A$16 million in the year 
ended 30 June 2012, the business is engaged in the sale of healthcare 
consumables and equipment to aged care facilities, hospitals and medical 
centres as well as to redistributors and increases our market presence in 
this growing sector.
PROSPECTS
The macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging but we believe 
that our resilient customer base and the opportunities for additional 
market consolidation will provide the Group with a good platform for 
further growth.
In North America we expect to see stronger growth as a result of the six 
acquisitions completed last year and an improvement in organic revenue 
growth from the levels seen in the second half of 2012. In spite of the 
difﬁcult market conditions in Continental Europe, we currently anticipate 
some growth with a stable operating margin. The performance of UK  
& Ireland should continue to improve, in spite of the sluggish economies, 
led by organic growth and ongoing cost reduction initiatives. Rest of the 
World should see a strong performance through a combination of good 
organic growth and the impact of the recent signiﬁcant acquisition activity.
Acquisition growth is an important part of our strategy. The pipeline is 
promising as we continue discussions with a number of potential targets. 
The Board believes that the prospects for the Group are positive due  
to our strong market position, growing customer sectors and good 
opportunities to consolidate further the markets in which we compete.
 
Michael Roney
Chief Executive 
25 February 2013 12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
SOURCING
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
WE SOURCE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF DIFFERENT PRODUCTS 
FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD, LIAISING CLOSELY WITH OUR SUPPLIERS 
SO THAT WE ARE ABLE TO OFFER A FULL RANGE OF ITEMS WHICH 
SATISFY OUR CUSTOMERS’ DEMANDS. FROM SAFETY HARNESSES 
AND HARD HATS TO BAKERY PACKAGING AND COFFEE CUPS,  
WE ENSURE THAT THE PRODUCTS WE SOURCE ARE THE MOST 
APPROPRIATE FOR THEIR EVERYDAY REQUIREMENTS. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 13
EVERYDAY  
ESSENTIAL  
PRODUCTS 14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
NORTH AMERICA
In North America revenue increased by 6% to £2,905.8 million due to 
sales growth with existing customers, new business wins and acquisitions. 
This, together with the impact of higher margin acquisitions and good cost 
control, contributed to an 8% increase in operating proﬁt to £184.6 million, 
with the operating proﬁt margin improving 20 basis points to 6.4%. Our 
extensive distribution network and delivery ﬂeet across North America and 
our experienced sales force continued to produce value for our customers 
in the diversiﬁed business sectors we service.
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, produced good 
growth in 2012 principally as a result of the full year impact of a signiﬁcant 
customer win in the third quarter of 2011 but also as we expanded our 
business with other customers by offering integrated supply chain product 
and information supply chain solutions. Execution of our cornerstone 
programmes of direct store delivery, cross dock and warehouse 
replenishment programmes on a local, regional or national basis provides 
us with a unique competitive advantage in the marketplace and generates 
opportunities for us to reduce the operating costs and working capital 
investment of our customers. Our overall business in the Paciﬁc 
Northwest was boosted by the acquisition of Service Paper in June.
The redistribution business also grew as we continued to enable our 
distributor customers, predominantly in the foodservice, jan/san (janitorial/
sanitation) and ofﬁce products sectors, to achieve increased proﬁtability 
through our proximity and scale. Our business model allows not only these 
customers but all of our customers to consolidate their sources of supply 
and reduce their administrative and operating costs through our one-stop-
shop offering. As a result of our excellent ﬁll rates and dependable delivery 
capabilities, our customers can improve their proﬁtability and asset 
utilisation by rededicating storage space, once occupied by the stock 
items we now provide, to support higher revenue generating items.
Our food processor business continued to perform well, with customers 
across the full breadth of the food processor supply chain from the ﬁelds 
to the stores. These include growers, packers, large food companies and 
meat, fresh cut produce, home meal and specialty food processors. The 
recent addition of Destiny Packaging and its ﬂexible packaging offering 
complements Cool-Pak’s and Netpak’s rigid packaging product lines and 
increases our ability to provide innovative packaging solutions for growers, 
packers and retailers.
+8% 
INCREASE IN OPERATING PROFIT AT 
CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES WITH 
IMPROVEMENT IN OPERATING MARGIN.
Our business serving the non-food retail sector also developed well 
despite slow US retail sales growth. Our coast to coast distribution network 
gives us the scale needed to support national retail chains cost effectively 
through our uniform operating platform. Our recent acquisition of Schwarz 
Paper Company complements our existing non-food retail and grocery 
distribution businesses. Schwarz will signiﬁcantly expand our customer 
base and market presence in these sectors across the US in the coming 
year. We also continued to improve our expertise and breadth of product 
line through our acquisition of CDW Merchants in February. Their design 
and marketing offerings will further enhance our ability to introduce new 
and unique point of sale designs and, together with Keenpac, allow us  
to offer innovative packaging and store supply programmes that will lead 
to increased business with our existing customer base as well as attract 
new customers, particularly in the specialty and online retail sectors.
Although the convenience store sector is still impacted by higher fuel 
costs, it continued to expand in 2012. We continuously work with retail 
convenience store chains to provide additional programmes and products 
to help them meet the demands of the new services being offered at the 
store level. Our investment in a well trained sales force gives us a better 
opportunity to develop more expansive programmes with these local, 
regional and national chains. Wholesalers in this sector also continue to 
extend their services which provides us with additional sales opportunities.
We continue to strengthen our relationships with our preferred suppliers 
and further integrate our supply chains as we position their products 
closer to the customer reducing their operating costs and improving their 
proﬁtability. Working as supply chain partners allows us to leverage our 
combined strengths to create unique programmes and products that best 
satisfy our customers’ needs at competitive prices.
Our private label import and import logistics programmes saw further 
expansion by utilising our state-of-the-art Shanghai distribution centre 
and quality control services and leveraging our international logistics 
expertise. We also penetrated more deeply into the foodservice sector 
and strengthened our competitive position through our acquisition of 
FoodHandler, a leading supplier of own brand disposable gloves and 
other food handling products. Not only does FoodHandler expand our 
foodservice product offering, it also complements our existing foodservice 
operations, augments our sales force with extensive product sales and 
marketing expertise and extends our customer base. In addition, our 
recent acquisition of McCordick Glove & Safety enables us to enter the 
personal protection equipment sector in Canada which is a product area 
where we have already been very successful in a number of other 
geographies. It also has a wide range of successful own brands that will 
enhance our existing safety product offering.
We continued to manage successfully our operating costs despite ongoing 
pressures on fuel, freight and healthcare costs. As part of this process 
we diligently evaluate new warehouse technologies that could improve 
warehouse efﬁciencies and continually analyse the number of facilities 
we require in order to optimise our operating costs and service levels.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
‘  OUR IT PLATFORM, EXTENSIVE 
WAREHOUSE NETWORK AND DELIVERY 
FLEET CONTINUE TO POSITION US WELL  
TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS’ DEMANDS  
IN THE FUTURE.’ 
Patrick Larmon
President and CEO North America BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 15
CONTINENTAL EUROPE
Revenue rose by 8% to £1,079.4 million due to a combination of some 
organic growth and acquisition activity in 2011 and 2012, although 
operating proﬁt fell 2% to £87 .5 million. In the difﬁcult economic 
environment in most of the countries in which we are present, pricing 
pressure in our markets together with a weaker euro impacting import 
prices has led to a decline in gross margin. Although operating costs remain 
tightly controlled, underlying revenue growth has slowed compared to 
recent years such that the revenue growth, together with the impact from 
acquisitions, was not sufﬁcient to compensate for the gross margin decline.
Our largest business, the cleaning and hygiene operations in France, saw  
a slight reduction in sales. Gross margin continues to be under pressure, 
in particular from the healthcare and public sectors with cost control 
measures at our customers continuing to impact our business, leading  
to a decline in operating proﬁt. Measures to increase gross margin and 
reduce costs have been implemented with a view to improving future 
proﬁtability. By contrast, our personal protection equipment business  
in France enjoyed good sales growth with an improved operating proﬁt.
In the Netherlands, sales continued to grow signiﬁcantly in our businesses 
supplying the food and non-food retail sectors. Our healthcare business 
saw reasonable growth although the horeca (hotel, restaurant and 
catering) sector recorded a small decline. Margins remain under pressure 
although improved in the healthcare sector, partly due to synergies from 
recent acquisitions. Overall underlying operating proﬁt improved and was 
further enhanced by the full year impact of the acquisition of D-Care 
which was acquired in 2011.
2012 was the ﬁrst full year of ownership of Majestic Products, a personal 
protection equipment and safety products business in the Netherlands, 
Belgium, Germany and the US. While trading in the European businesses 
was soft, the US business recorded strong growth both in sales and 
operating proﬁt, in particular due to the successful introduction of new 
products. It also relocated to a larger, purpose-built facility to allow for 
further growth in the coming years.
£1,079.4m 
RECORD LEVEL OF SALES AS 
BUSINESS AREA REVENUE 
INCREASES 8% AT CONSTANT 
EXCHANGE RATES.
In Belgium, we recorded strong sales growth in the cleaning and hygiene 
sector due to further gains with a number of existing customers although 
sales in the retail sector declined following the loss of one larger account 
leaving overall sales ﬂat. Good margin management led to an overall 
increase in operating proﬁt and margins.
In Germany, sales growth was modest with gains in sales to fast food 
chains, coffee shops and wholesalers being partly offset by lower sales to 
contract caterers. Margins remain under pressure in particular from larger 
accounts. Costs were reduced during the year to compensate for lower 
margins leaving operating proﬁt ﬂat.
In Switzerland, our Weita business saw a slight decline in sales as the 
Swiss economy, and in particular its tourism industry, has been adversely 
impacted by the continuing strength of the Swiss franc, although margins 
were in line with last year. At the end of June we acquired Distrimondo, a 
distributor of foodservice disposables and cleaning and hygiene products 
throughout Switzerland, which is integrating well into the Group and 
generating synergies with Weita.
In Denmark, sales have declined in the retail and horeca sectors and 
grown in the personal protection equipment sector. Gross margins are 
also under pressure in the retail and public sectors and this, combined 
with some one-off costs associated with implementing a new IT system, 
resulted in a reduced operating proﬁt.
In Spain, extremely difﬁcult economic circumstances led to a fall in 
underlying sales in both the cleaning and hygiene and personal protection 
equipment businesses, although overall sales in the cleaning and hygiene 
business were ahead due to the purchase of King Espana in 2011. 
Margins have also fallen as a result of the weaker euro increasing import 
prices and competitive pressures although this has partially been 
mitigated by synergies achieved following the acquisition of King Espana.
In central Europe, sales grew after the decline of 2011 with the strongest 
growth in the retail sector although the cleaning and hygiene and safety 
sectors also improved. Margins, however, remain under pressure across 
the region leading to a lower level of operating proﬁt.
In Israel, our foodservice disposables business, Silco, continued to deliver 
strong sales growth but margins have declined, partly due to the strength 
of the US dollar. In April we acquired Zahav, a leading distributor of 
packaging supplies to the foodservice sector which is integrating well  
into the Group.
‘  OUR BROAD PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESSES 
ACROSS A NUMBER OF MARKET SECTORS 
AND GEOGRAPHIES ENABLES US TO MEET 
THE CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS 
WE ARE FACING.’ 
Frank van Zanten
Managing Director Continental Europe 16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
CONSOLIDATION
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
WE HAVE AN EXTENSIVE FOOTPRINT OF WAREHOUSE FACILITIES 
ACROSS FOUR CONTINENTS WHICH MEANS THAT OUR PRODUCTS 
ARE NEVER FAR FROM WHERE THEY NEED TO BE. WHETHER 
CUSTOMERS REQUIRE ORDERS FOR A NETWORK OF LOCATIONS  
OR INDIVIDUAL OUTLETS, WE CAN QUICKLY AND EASILY FACILITATE 
THEIR NEEDS FROM OUR BROAD RANGE OF STOCK KEEPING UNITS. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 17
THAT OFFERS OUR  
CUSTOMERS 
ONE-STOP-SHOP  
SOLUTIONS 18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
UK & IRELAND
Our businesses in the UK & Ireland have shown a continued improvement 
in performance in 2012. Although total revenue was ﬂat at £992.1 million, 
due to the impact of the sale of vending in August 2011, operating proﬁt 
increased 8% to £65.2 million. In a market where demand is still 
suppressed and there is constant pressure from customers to make 
savings, we have achieved underlying growth and margin improvement by 
further developing our market position and by successfully integrating the 
recent acquisitions. We have also improved results by constantly appraising 
our resource levels and operating efﬁciency, investing in product sourcing 
and procurement and the continued development of our own brands. 
The London 2012 Olympics was an important event for Bunzl as we 
provided a number of products speciﬁcally for the Games through our 
catering and hospitality customers. These included catering disposables, 
healthcare consumables and cleaning and hygiene supplies. In addition  
to the business opportunity it presented, we were able to enhance our 
reputation for delivering an outstanding level of service.
The safety market has continued to be subdued as a result of reduced 
demand, particularly in the construction and industrial sectors, although 
the results for the year of our safety supplies business were boosted by 
the integration of SIG Safety and Workwear which was purchased during 
2011. Our cleaning and hygiene supplies business performed well  
as a result of good organic growth in the facilities management sector  
and the full year impact of the Cannon Consumables business also 
acquired in 2011. We remained focused on operating costs in this difﬁcult 
environment and further consolidated the branch network of our cleaning 
and safety businesses, reducing the number of facilities by two.
86.5% 
RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL, 
THE HIGHEST OF ALL OF THE 
BUSINESS AREAS.
In hospitality we saw good growth, particularly with high street coffee 
shops and contract caterers. Our ability to offer an extensive range of own 
brand products, which complement branded products, helped to make 
savings for our customers and maintain our operating margins. This 
remains a very competitive market, so we are conscious of the need to 
provide high levels of service at low levels of operating cost. As part of our 
programme to deliver these, we have further rationalised our network and 
closed two locations.
In our food retail business we have continued to increase sales by gaining 
an additional major grocery retailer during the year, together with the 
impact of a new grocery account won towards the end of 2011. Our 
non-food retail packaging business had a successful year, despite the 
signiﬁcant challenges being faced by many of our high street customers, 
due to continuing strong demand from luxury branded retailers and the 
acquisition of Indigo Concept Packaging in October. Gross margins are 
under constant pressure in the retail supplies market and it is through 
offering innovative supply solutions and reducing customers’ existing costs 
that we have managed to continue to be successful.
Although the healthcare market has been challenged by ongoing 
government spending constraints, we have made good progress during 
2012. This has been achieved by focusing on more proﬁtable business, 
expanding and developing our range of own brand products and by taking 
measures to reduce operating costs. During the year we also increased 
the efﬁciency of our operations by introducing a new electronic ordering 
platform for our customers.
In spite of a continuing difﬁcult economy in Ireland and the negative 
impact of the weaker euro, our business there has seen further recovery 
in 2012. This reﬂects the work that had already been done to reduce our 
cost base and improve the sales performance. The overall market that we 
serve has stabilised, reﬂecting an increase in demand from hotels and the 
hospitality sector. We have also been successful in winning tenders for 
supply to government agencies and facilities management companies. 
This has enabled us to offset the ongoing weak demand from high street 
retailers and the takeaway food market.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
‘OUR ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH 
INCREASED THIS YEAR TO ITS  
HIGHEST LEVEL FOR FIVE YEARS  
AS WE CONTINUED TO IMPROVE  
OUR PERFORMANCE.’ 
Paul Budge
Managing Director UK & Ireland BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 19
REST OF THE WORLD
In Rest of the World revenue increased 23% to £381.9 million while 
proﬁts rose 22% to £33.2 million. Both Australasia and Brazil experienced 
strong organic revenue growth with the results also beneﬁtting from the 
impact of recent acquisitions. 
In Australasia, our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies 
the healthcare, cleaning and catering sectors, continued to perform 
strongly and again delivered strong results. This was achieved through a 
consistent strategy of focusing on the resilient market sectors and growing 
market share in aged care facilities and hospitals where we supply a wide 
range of disposable and medical consumables. We also saw some solid 
growth with our catering and cleaning customers who supply into the 
mining and resource sectors. In addition in April we made our ﬁrst entry 
into the redistribution sector through the acquisition of the redistribution 
business of Star Services International in Queensland.
To help consolidate our market position in healthcare, in October  
we acquired Atlas Health Care which is a major supplier of specialist 
healthcare consumables in South Australia. This acquisition brings 
additional market specialisation and expertise in woundcare and nutrition 
and complements our current product offering. The purchase of McNeil 
Surgical in February 2013 will further strengthen our position in this 
growing sector.
Although sales in our food processor business increased in 2012, it 
performed below expectations. The business is continuing to develop 
expertise with major national non-meat food processors which diversiﬁes 
and balances our stronger position with retail supermarkets. We are also 
growing in our traditional markets by introducing a number of new product 
development initiatives. The business has created capacity for continued 
growth and made a number of operational improvements, recently 
implementing scanning technology into the warehouse operations,  
to improve accuracy and increase productivity in the future. 
Our catering equipment businesses had a disappointing year as  
we continued to be challenged by further softening in the traditional 
hospitality markets. To offset this, the business has been refocusing its 
+22%
RISE IN OPERATING PROFIT AT 
CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES DUE 
TO STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH AND 
IMPACT FROM ACQUISITIONS.
efforts to grow market share in the more resilient healthcare and resources 
sectors. During the year we successfully integrated our largest business 
onto the main IT platform which has improved operational performance 
and increased efﬁciency and service levels. 
Our business in Australasia continues to invest in infrastructure and 
technology to enable the business to grow efﬁciently. During 2012 two 
of our business units successfully relocated their New South Wales 
operations into our new 20,000m
2
 distribution centre in the Sydney 
suburb of Enﬁeld. This facility will improve operational efﬁciency and 
represents a major investment to facilitate future growth in Australia’s  
most populated region. In 2013 we will consolidate two further facilities 
into this location as their current property leases expire. 
In Brazil our personal protection equipment businesses performed well 
despite the continuing slowdown in the rate of economic growth as the 
year progressed and weakness in the Brazilian real which particularly 
impacted import prices. Danny, the redistribution business with a focus  
on own brands acquired in November 2011, was successfully integrated 
into the Group and launched a series of new products. Prot Cap also grew 
and increased its proﬁtability, partly as a result of new customer wins 
particularly in the oil and gas sectors which are continuing to expand, and 
developed some important relationships with additional suppliers which 
has enhanced our product offering. The recent acquisition of Vicsa Brasil, 
which was completed on 19 February 2013, complements and further 
extends our range of safety products. 
Ideal, the cleaning and hygiene business which was also acquired in 
2011, gained a number of new accounts in the retail sector and was  
able to realise operational efﬁciencies and increase the operating  
margin through the implementation of a new IT system and a logistics 
restructuring programme.
The purchase in December of Vicsa Safety with its operations in Chile, 
Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Mexico, expands our personal protection 
equipment business in the region outside Brazil and provides Bunzl with 
an exciting ﬁrst entry into ﬁve high growth safety markets.
‘  OUR BUSINESS IN AUSTRALASIA HAS 
CONTINUED TO IMPROVE ITS OPERATIONAL 
EFFICIENCY THROUGH INVESTMENT IN 
NEW FACILITIES AND TECHNOLOGY WHICH 
SHOULD FACILITATE FURTHER GROWTH.’ 
Kim Hetherington
Managing Director Australasia
‘ OUR EXPANSION INTO NEW COUNTRIES IN 
SOUTH AMERICA NOT ONLY EXTENDS OUR 
SAFETY BUSINESS IN THE REGION BUT 
ALSO PROVIDES A PLATFORM FOR FUTURE 
GROWTH INTO OTHER MARKET SECTORS. ’ 
Rodrigo Mascarenhas
Managing Director South America 20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012
DELIVERING
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
WITH OUR FLEETS OF DELIVERY VEHICLES AND THIRD PARTY 
CARRIERS, WE ARE ABLE TO GET PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS  
IN A TIMELY MANNER. WHETHER DELIVERIES ARE DAILY, WEEKLY  
OR MONTHLY, WE WORK WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO MEET THEIR 
REQUIREMENTS AND ENABLE THEM TO FOCUS ON THEIR CORE 
BUSINESSES, HELPING TO INCREASE THE EFFICIENCY AND 
COMPETITIVENESS OF THEIR OPERATIONS.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 21
ON TIME TO  
KEEP YOUR 
BUSINESS MOVING
