 OPERATING PERFORMANCE
The Group has had another successful year in 2013 due to a 
combination of some organic growth, good performances from  
the acquisitions made in 2012 and a high level of acquisition spend 
during the year.
The overall positive translation effect of currency movements has 
increased the reported Group growth rates of revenue and operating 
profit by approximately 2%. The operations, including the relevant 
growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange rates to 
remove the distorting impact of these currency movements. 
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange 
rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2012 at 
the average rates used for 2013. Unless otherwise stated, all 
references in this review to operating profit are to operating profit 
before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs. 
Revenue increased 12% (14% at actual exchange rates) to £6,097.7 
million and operating profit was £414.4 million, an increase of 16% 
(18% at actual exchange rates). The percentage growth in operating 
profit was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in 
Group operating margin at both actual and constant exchange 
rates by 20 basis points to 6.8% as a result of improved levels of 
profitability in some businesses and the impact of acquisitions. 
In North America revenue rose 15% (17% at actual exchange rates) 
due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions 
completed in both 2012 and 2013, while operating profit increased 
14% (16% at actual exchange rates). Revenue in Continental Europe 
rose 2% (7% at actual exchange rates) as a result of improved 
organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions, with 
operating profit up 6% (11% at actual exchange rates) as margins 
improved. In UK & Ireland revenue was up 2% (3% at actual 
exchange rates) due to the impact of relatively small acquisitions, but 
operating profit rose 10% at both constant and actual exchange rates 
as margins continued to recover during the year. In Rest of the World 
revenue increased 47% (38% at actual exchange rates) and operating 
profit was up 65% (54% at actual exchange rates) due to both good 
organic revenue growth and the substantial impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were 7% higher (8% at actual exchange 
rates) at 63.5p. Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the 
effect of intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the 
disposal of vending, were 82.4p, an increase of 15% (17% at actual 
exchange rates). The return on average operating capital increased 
from 56.5% to 56.9%. Return on invested capital was 17.9%, in line 
with 2012, despite our ongoing acquisition spend.
Our operating cash flow continued to be strong with the ratio of 
operating cash flow before acquisition related costs to operating 
profit at 102%. The net debt to EBITDA ratio was 1.8 times, the same 
level as at the previous year end despite an acquisition cash outflow 
of £279.9 million. 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) remains intrinsic to the effective 
running of our business. In particular we have continued to give 
outstanding customer service by providing innovative products and 
service solutions, many of which assist our customers in reducing 
their impact on the environment. During the year Bunzl has received 
a number of awards for CR activities from customers, public bodies 
and other organisations.
ACQUISITIONS
Our committed acquisition spend in 2013 of £295 million was slightly 
higher than in 2012 and was the highest level since 2004. During  
the year 11 transactions were completed in addition to the 
completion in February 2013 of the purchase of Vicsa Brasil which 
we agreed to acquire in December 2012.
At the end of January 2013 we acquired McNeil Surgical in Australia.  
With revenue of £10 million in 2013, the business is engaged in  
the sale of healthcare consumables and equipment to aged care 
facilities, hospitals and medical centres as well as to distributors and 
increases our market presence in this growing sector. We completed 
the purchase of Vicsa Brasil in February, the proposed acquisition of 
which was agreed in December 2012, following clearance of the 
transaction from the Brazilian Competition Authority. Based in São 
Paulo, the business is engaged in the sale of personal protection 
equipment throughout Brazil and expands our growing safety 
business in Brazil. Revenue in 2013 was £6 million. In March we 
purchased Labor Import, a business principally engaged in the 
supply and distribution of own label medical and healthcare 
consumable products to distributors as well as to hospitals, clinics, 
laboratories and care homes throughout Brazil. Revenue in 2013 was 
£15 million. This is another important step for Bunzl as it represents 
our first move into the healthcare sector in Brazil, having previously 
acquired businesses in the safety and cleaning and hygiene sectors. 
The acquisition of MDA in the UK was also completed in March. The 
business, which had revenue in 2013 of £23 million, is involved in the 
procurement and fulfilment of promotional products and marketing 
point of sale materials for a variety of customers, principally in the 
food and drinks industries. 
Our business in Australia was significantly expanded at the end of 
April with the purchase of three businesses which formed part of the 
Industrial & Safety division of Jeminex. The workwear and personal 
safety business distributes an extensive range of specialist personal 
protection equipment and workwear to the mining, resources, 
construction and general industrial sectors. The lifting, rigging and 
height safety business is principally engaged in the supply of lifting 
chains and ropes, slings and load restraints as well as the provision 
of accredited testing and repair services. The third business is 
involved in the supply of industrial packaging products to a variety  
of customers in different market sectors. Revenue of the acquired 
businesses was £98 million in 2013.
Mi c ha el 	 Ro n e y
Chief Executive
12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Br ian 	 Ma y	
Finance Director
P a tr i c k 	 Lar mo n
President and CEO 
North America
C el i a 	 Bax t er
Director of Group 
Human Resources
P a u l 	 Hus se y
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
P a u l 	 Budge
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
And rew 	 Moo n e y
Director of Corporate 
Development
F r a n k 	 v a n 	 Za n ten
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Rod r ig o 	 Masc a renh as
Managing Director  
Latin America
K i m 	 Hether i n g to n
Managing Director 
Australasia
The acquisition of TFS in the UK was completed at the end of July. With 
revenue of £9 million in 2013, TFS complements MDA and has further 
strengthened that part of our business in the UK which is focused on 
marketing and point of sale materials. Espomega, which supplies a 
variety of safety products to distributors throughout Mexico, was 
acquired at the end of August. Revenue was £27 million in 2013 and the 
acquisition has expanded significantly our safety business in Mexico. 
ProEpta, a leading distributor of catering equipment throughout 
Mexico, principally to luxury hotels and restaurants, was acquired in 
September. Revenue in 2013 was £18 million. 
Wesclean, a business engaged in the distribution of cleaning and 
hygiene equipment and supplies to a variety of customer markets 
throughout Western Canada with revenue of £40 million in 2013, 
was acquired in November. Our safety business in Germany was 
expanded with the acquisition at the end of November of pka Klöcker, 
a business based near Düsseldorf engaged in the sale to distributors 
of personal protection equipment, principally own label workwear. 
Revenue in 2013 was £5 million. De Santis, a business based near 
São Paulo principally engaged in the sale of personal protection 
equipment to end user customers in a number of different market 
sectors and with revenue of £5 million in 2013, was acquired in 
December. Finally, SAS Safety, a business based in California 
specialising in the sourcing and sale to distributors of a variety of 
own label personal protection equipment, principally safety gloves, 
was also acquired in December. Revenue in 2013 was £31 million.
Today we are announcing the acquisition of Bäumer and Protemo in 
Germany and Oskar Plast in the Czech Republic. The businesses in 
Germany had aggregated revenue of €11.9 million (c.£10 million) in 
2013 and represent our first step into the cleaning and hygiene and 
healthcare sectors in Germany. Oskar Plast had revenue of CZK284 
million (c.£9 million) in 2013 and has expanded our operations in the 
Czech Republic.
PROSPECTS
We believe that an improving macroeconomic outlook, Bunzl’s strong 
competitive position and the full year impact of the 2013 acquisitions 
should lead to a good performance in 2014. However, with the recent 
strengthening of sterling, our reported results will be negatively 
affected by foreign exchange translation if exchange rates remain 
at their current levels.
At constant exchange rates each of our business areas is expected 
to grow. In North America, we expect good growth as a result of 
both organic revenue growth and the acquisitions made in 2013. 
Even though the economic environment continues to be sluggish 
in Continental Europe, we expect to see continued growth this year. 
In UK & Ireland, after a long period of time with a weak revenue line, 
we expect to see some sales growth in 2014 with margin stability. 
Rest of the World should show significant increase in revenue 
and profit, especially in Latin America, due to a combination of 
underlying growth and the impact of recent acquisitions.
We have had three consecutive years of higher than our historical 
average acquisition spend and the pipeline of potential acquisitions 
continues to be promising. Discussions are ongoing with a number 
of targets in all of the business areas and we expect to complete 
further acquisitions in the coming months.
The Board is confident that our strong market position will enable  
the Group to grow the business and continue to build value for our 
shareholders.
Mi c ha el 	 Ro n e y
Chief Executive 
24 February 2014
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 13
Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review performance, discuss trends 
affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
MANAGEMENT TEAM 14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
GROW
DEVELOP
SIMPLIFY
27
Countries of 
operation across 
four continents
WE UNDERSTAND  
THE IMPORTANCE  
OF GROWING 
ORGANICALLY 
AND THROUGH 
ACQUISITIONS  
WHILE MAKING  
OUR BUSINESS  
MORE EFFICIENT
We have grown consistently and sustainably 
with a clear and focused strategy through the 
development of long term relationships and  
by identifying future business opportunities.  
Our service offer is based on a one-stop-shop 
solution which allows our customers to 
simplify their business processes. BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 15 NORTH AMERICA 
‘  AS A FOCUSED ORGANISATION WE  
HAVE CONTINUED TO DEMONSTRATE THE 
STRENGTH AND DEPTH OF OUR CUSTOMER 
PROPOSITION AND SHOW OUR ABILITY  
TO DEVELOP FURTHER ACROSS THE 
MARKETS WE SERVE.’
P a tr i c k 	 Lar mo n
President and CEO North America
In North America revenue increased by 15% to £3,401.7 million  
due to organic sales growth from new customer wins and overall 
revenue gains in our existing business, together with the impact  
of acquisitions, particularly those businesses purchased in 2012.  
This sales growth contributed to an operating profit increase of  
14% to £213.6 million. 
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, continued to 
produce solid results in 2013. We maintained strong positions with 
our existing large national and regional customers. We also gained 
several new locally based accounts to bolster our sales in this sector 
during the year. Our uniform IT platform and ability to execute our 
programmes on a local, regional and national basis give us a distinct 
competitive advantage and the ability to accommodate supply chain 
disruptions, such as those caused by bad weather, and thereby 
sustain our level and quality of service.
The redistribution business once again provided opportunities for  
our distributor customers to increase their sales and profitability.  
As a result of our distribution scale and proximity, customers can  
rely on our one-stop-shop offering, excellent fill rates, dependable 
delivery capabilities and extensive product lines and use us as a 
virtual extension of their own inventory. Customers can thereby 
improve their asset utilisation and reallocate storage space to higher 
revenue generating items previously occupied by the items we 
provide. Our domestically sourced, environmentally friendly and 
imported private label lines give customers the opportunity to 
substitute quality private label alternatives to increase their gross 
margins and profits. Our sales teams assist in consolidating the 
sources of supply that lead to administrative and operating cost 
reductions. Additionally, we provide sophisticated marketing tools 
to drive increased customer sales of our products. The acquisition 
of SAS Safety in December is a significant and strategic addition to 
our safety business in North America. 
We are increasing our marketing and communication activities 
through the FoodHandler brand, which is recognised by the 
foodservice market for excellence in innovation, quality and safety. 
We also established a new FoodHandler distribution centre in the 
Midwest, in addition to our existing East and West Coast facilities, 
to reduce our operating costs, improve product availability and 
reduce lead times. 
Our food processor business continued to grow through our ability  
to supply a wide range of MRO, personal protection equipment and 
packaging products to major producers in the meat, field and fresh 
cut produce, dairy and prepared foods industries. We gained 
business with growers, packers and retailers through our Cool Pak, 
Netpak and Destiny Packaging businesses which assist our 
customers in designing and sourcing both flexible and rigid 
packaging solutions and programmes that meet their specialised 
needs in the agricultural processing sector. 
Our business serving the non-food retail sector expanded further 
despite the slow growth in US retail sales. Our uniform operating 
platform, coupled with our extensive branch network, give us the 
ability to create programmes that offer our retail customers 
centralised account management while leveraging our sourcing and 
import expertise thereby enabling us to service retailer locations on 
a local basis coast to coast. Further integrating the expertise, 
facilities and customer base of Schwarz Paper Company, which we 
acquired in December 2012, has strengthened our retail fulfilment 
capabilities and position in the marketplace. Schwarz has also 
extended our product lines, especially in-store fixtures and store 
supplies. Their materials consolidation division offers a dynamic 
solution for our customers in handling store fixtures and equipment. 
Similarly CDW Merchants, which was also acquired in 2012, 
continues to deliver creative expertise in the design of point of sale 
displays and specialty retail packaging. Overall, the retail supplies 
businesses are together able to offer a wide breadth of resources 
to our customers in this sector.
The convenience store sector also expanded in 2013. We have 
partnered with retail convenience store chains and increased the 
breadth of product lines provided through our programmes to assist 
retailers in improving their in-store offerings. We also developed  
our retail redistribution programme during the year and now 
distribute products for two of our preferred suppliers through 
a national wholesaler.
We increased the breadth of our imported private label product 
offering and significantly grew our import business. In order to  
do so we continued to utilise our state-of-the-art Shanghai export 
consolidation centre, quality control services and international 
logistics expertise. As a result, we have realigned our import  
sales and marketing resources to focus on growing import 
programme sales.
The recent acquisition of ProEpta in Mexico expands our presence  
in the restaurant and hospitality sector. This also gives us the 
opportunity to expand the business into other product lines available 
through our existing operations there.
Our business in Canada continued to grow and produce good results. 
McCordick Glove & Safety, acquired in 2012, performed well and has 
gained several new national accounts. Our recent acquisition of 
Wesclean has significantly expanded our operations in the cleaning 
and hygiene sector in Canada and broadened the range of products 
we can offer.
+14%
Increase in 
operating profit 
at constant 
exchange rates 
16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED Wesclean  
Equipment & 
Cleaning Supplies
The purchase of Wesclean is an important 
development for our business in Canada as it 
significantly expands our operations there in the 
cleaning and hygiene sector. The business has an 
excellent reputation for providing a broad range 
of products and services and should provide 
additional opportunities for us to develop further 
in this sector.
 Pr oE pta
The acquisition of ProEpta further extends our 
business in Mexico into the catering equipment 
sector following the recent expansion into the 
safety sector with the acquisition of both Vicsa 
Safety and Espomega. The business has a strong 
position in this promising market.
SAS Safety
SAS Safety is a significant and strategic addition 
to our safety business in North America.  
It specialises in the sourcing and sale of a variety 
of own label personal protection equipment, 
principally safety gloves, to distributors.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 17 pka Klöcker
The acquisition of pka Klöcker extends our existing 
safety operations in Germany following the purchase 
of Majestic in 2011. The business is principally engaged 
in the sale of own label workwear to distributors.
18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CONTINENTAL EUROPE
‘  WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO INCREASE  
BOTH REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT 
DESPITE THE DIFFICULT ECONOMIC 
CONDITIONS WE CONTINUED TO FACE 
THROUGHOUT THE REGION.’
	 F r a n k 	 v a n 	 Za n ten
Managing Director Continental Europe
Revenue rose by 2% to £1,151.5 million and operating profit improved 
6% to £97.0 million. While macroeconomic conditions remained 
challenging, overall profitability and operating margins have 
improved due to a combination of organic sales growth, improved 
margin management, continued tight cost control and the full year 
impact of the 2012 acquisitions of Zahav and Distrimondo together 
with the acquisition of pka Klöcker in late November 2013.
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business saw a slight decline  
in sales but improved its gross margin despite ongoing market 
pressures, particularly in the healthcare and public sectors, helped 
partly by an increase in sales of own brand products. Cost reduction 
measures continued to deliver savings such that operating profit 
improved significantly following the reduction in profit last year.  
Our personal protection equipment business enjoyed good sales 
growth and consequently improved its operating profit.
In the Netherlands, sales improved in the healthcare, cleaning  
and hygiene and horeca (hotel, restaurant and catering) sectors. 
However sales declined in the food and non-food retail sectors given 
the ongoing market pressures on our customers in these sectors. 
While overall sales decreased slightly, margins improved and  
cost increases were kept to a minimum. Two of our businesses 
successfully migrated to a new IT system. The personal protection 
equipment and safety products business recorded strong sales 
growth from gaining market share and achieved better margins from 
the increase in sales of own brand products. Overall the operating 
profit for the Netherlands was at a similar level to the previous year.
In Belgium, we recorded strong sales growth in the cleaning and 
hygiene sector, particularly from increasing business with a number 
of existing key accounts, although sales remained weak in the retail 
sector. With margins improving, profitability grew strongly.
In Germany, stronger sales to hotels and butchers were offset by 
weaker trading in the foodservice and bakery sectors. Margins 
improved and costs were reduced leading to an increase in operating 
profit. At the end of November we acquired pka Klöcker which is 
engaged in the sale of personal protection equipment, principally  
own label workwear, to distributors. The business is integrating well 
and will help improve our position in the safety sector in Germany 
through cross-selling activities with our existing operations,  
including Majestic. The recent acquisition of Bäumer and Protemo 
in January 2014 has extended our business in Germany into the 
cleaning and hygiene and healthcare sectors.
In Switzerland, our Weita business increased sales, in particular 
in the retail and medical sectors, but margins remained under 
pressure and operating profit declined. We have benefited from the 
full year impact of the acquisition of Distrimondo in mid 2012 which 
continues to trade well and benefit from the significant synergies 
generated from the combination with Weita.
In Denmark, sales of personal protection equipment and packaging 
increased and revenue to horeca distributors improved but sales 
of horeca products to the public sector, which continues to seek 
significant cost savings, declined leading to a fall in overall revenue. 
Gross margins stabilised in the retail sector but declined in the 
horeca market, particularly as a result of public sector customers 
issuing a number of major tenders. Costs were reduced due to the 
impact of the new IT system in our horeca business and the same 
system was successfully implemented into the retail business but 
this was not sufficient to offset fully the reduction in gross margin, 
leading to a decrease in operating profit.
In Spain, trading conditions have started to improve although our 
cleaning and hygiene business saw full year sales decline slightly 
compared to 2012. Sales increased in our personal protection 
equipment businesses, particularly due to exports, but also as a 
result of a return to modest growth in the Spanish economy in recent 
months. Margins improved in both sectors and cost increases were 
limited such that operating profit grew well. During the year we 
consolidated our various warehouses in Catalonia into one new 
facility which will generate cost savings going forward.
In central Europe, sales grew strongly, particularly in Romania  
and the retail business in Hungary, although margins remained 
under pressure across the region. Costs were carefully controlled  
and operating profit grew significantly. The purchase of Oskar Plast 
in February 2014 is an important addition to our business in the 
Czech Republic.
In Israel, Silco saw sales decline following the loss of a major 
customer. This was more than compensated for by the full year 
impact of the 2012 acquisition of Zahav but overall operating profit 
reduced in a difficult market environment.
+6%
Increase in 
operating profit 
at constant 
exchange rates
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 19
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED +10%
Increase in 
operating profit  
at constant 
exchange rates
UK & IRELAND
‘  DUE TO GOOD MARGIN MANAGEMENT AND 
TIGHT COST CONTROL, OUR OPERATING 
MARGIN HAS RETURNED TO 7.0%, ITS 
HIGHEST LEVEL FOR FIVE YEARS, WITH  
A FURTHER INCREASE IN OUR RETURN  
ON OPERATING CAPITAL TO 98.8%.’
	 P a u l 	 Budge
Managing Director UK & Ireland
Our operations in the UK & Ireland continued to build on the 
improvements seen in recent years. Although revenue was up  
2% to £1,018.5 million, operating profit rose significantly by 10% to 
£71.6 million as we improved the efficiency of our businesses and,  
as a result, the operating margin once again increased. A notable 
element of this year’s performance is that we have made good 
progress in each of the sectors in which we operate, including  
those that were particularly adversely affected at the onset of  
the financial crisis.
Against the background of the challenging macroeconomic 
conditions over the last few years, we have remained focused on 
margin management and tight cost control while also continuing to 
enhance the levels of service that we provide to our customers. This 
service offering has not only built our reputation in the markets in 
which we compete but has also delivered an increasingly efficient 
organisation. We continue to manage cash flow closely and are 
pleased to report a further improvement in the return on capital 
employed which was already the highest of our business areas.
In our food and non-food retail supplies businesses, our broad mix of 
customers has helped to produce a strong performance in a difficult 
market with both revenue and operating profit ahead. As our retail 
customers adapt to changes in their market conditions, we have 
assisted them as they have developed smaller local retail concepts 
and their online sales offerings to their customers. The flexibility of 
our services across procurement and different models of delivery, 
including direct to store, has seen us continue to develop our 
offering. Our retail packaging business, Keenpac, has opened a sales 
office in Shenzhen which allows us to sell direct to global retail 
brands with outlets in China.
During the year we acquired two marketing services businesses, 
MDA and TFS. These businesses manage and deliver the supply of 
point of sale and marketing materials on behalf of leading consumer 
brands to retail outlets. They are both performing strongly and have 
fitted in well alongside, and provided complementary services to, 
our existing operations.
In the hospitality business, our own brand product offering has  
grown and been well received and has partly helped to compensate 
for a reduction in sales and operating profit, following the loss of 
some business towards the end of 2012. We have continued to make 
efficiency improvements, including in particular the consolidation 
of three branches and the imminent relocation to a purpose built 
facility in the West Midlands.
Our cleaning and hygiene supplies business had another good  
year following a strong performance throughout the recession.  
Our focus on efficiency and high service levels has continued to help 
this business remain successful and we have further consolidated 
our branch network, reducing the number of facilities by two. 
In our safety business, demand has started to grow once more. 
Our strong market position and our ability to offer both leading 
brands and our own label products, combined with a responsive and 
flexible service, continue to make us an attractive proposition to our 
customers and position us well to take advantage of some major 
construction and maintenance projects as they come on stream.
Our healthcare business operates in a market that continues  
to be subject to tight spending constraints and ongoing cost  
reduction initiatives. In this environment, although revenue was 
slightly lower, our offering has once again proved to be competitive 
and our high service levels have contributed to a continued 
improvement in this business.
In Ireland, the hospitality sector has continued to recover and, having 
significantly adjusted our cost base following the initial economic 
downturn, we are now well positioned for further growth and have 
seen a significant improvement in profitability during the year. 
During the year we relocated one of our two facilities in Dublin into 
a new facility. This investment has greatly enhanced the quality and 
efficiency of our business serving the cleaning and safety sectors.
20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED mda
MDA is engaged in the procurement and fulfilment  
of promotional products and point of sale materials for  
a variety of customers, principally in the food and drinks 
industries. This is an exciting development for us as  
the acquisition has extended our product offering in  
the retail and hospitality sectors in the UK.
 
tfs
TFS complements MDA and has further strengthened 
that part of our business in the UK which is focused  
on products for marketing and point of sale displays.  
It has also expanded our service capabilities in these 
types of products into additional markets such as the 
automotive and charity sectors.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 21 McNeil 
Surgical
McNeil Surgical has expanded our presence 
in the healthcare sector in Australia, 
supplying a broad range of medical 
consumables and equipment to aged care 
facilities, hospitals and medical centres as 
well as to distributors.
 
Labor Import 
Labor Import represents our first move 
into the healthcare sector in Brazil, 
having previously acquired businesses 
in the safety and cleaning and hygiene 
sectors. It has a market leading position 
and an excellent customer base which 
should provide a platform for us to 
develop a strong presence in this sector 
going forward.
De Santis
De Santis is the fifth acquisition we have 
made in the safety sector in Brazil since 
the purchase of Prot Cap in 2008. The 
business sells a variety of personal 
protection equipment to end user 
customers in a number of different 
market sectors.
BIS
The acquisition of the industrial and 
safety businesses from Jeminex has 
significantly increased the size of our 
business in Australasia and extends 
our operations there into the safety 
market which is a successful sector for 
us in many countries. Together these 
businesses now form the Bunzl 
Industrial & Safety division (‘BIS’) 
in Australia.
 Es po m eg a
The purchase of Espomega has 
significantly increased the size of our 
safety business in Mexico, having 
entered the safety sector there with 
the acquisition of Vicsa Safety at the 
end of 2012. The business has an 
excellent range of own brand products 
which has extended our product offering 
to customers throughout the region.
22 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 REST OF THE WORLD
In Rest of the World revenue increased 47% to £526.0 million and 
operating profit rose 65% to £51.2 million with the results benefiting 
significantly from the impact of acquisitions.
In Australia, the economy continued to be impacted by a slowdown  
in demand for resources from the major export markets in Asia.  
This has had a consequential effect on our customers supplying  
into the mining and resource sectors which in turn has reduced  
the demand for the products which we supply. 
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies the 
healthcare, cleaning and hygiene, catering and retail sectors, 
continued to develop its position providing consolidated value-added 
supply solutions for disposable consumables across Australia and 
New Zealand. Although the business faced challenging market 
conditions, we increased our presence in the healthcare sector, 
in particular the aged care and private hospital markets, where 
we supply a wide range of disposable and medical consumables. 
To support our growth in this sector, we acquired McNeil Surgical 
in January 2013 which has provided us with increased levels of 
expertise and a critical mass in the medical consumables and 
wound care categories.
In April we acquired part of the Industrial & Safety division of 
Jeminex. Based in Sydney, the businesses operate nationally from 
a network of locations throughout Australia. While these businesses 
have been impacted by the downturn in the resources sector, they 
have benefited from having a spread of quality customers across 
other markets and have achieved purchasing synergies and cost 
reductions since acquisition. The businesses have settled well into 
our ownership and we have already seen the benefits of creating 
cross-selling opportunities into existing Bunzl customers. 
Our food processor business delivered a much improved 
performance in 2013. We made progress on our strategy to develop 
our operations into non-meat and other food processors. To build  
on this strategy and further consolidate our position as a leading 
national supplier into this sector, we merged our existing business 
with Network Packaging which was purchased as part of the 
acquisition from Jeminex. Network Packaging has a long and 
successful history supplying into the fruit and produce markets, 
predominantly in Western Australia, and the merger provides the 
combined business with an infrastructure and platform to develop 
these markets nationally. In addition, we are leveraging the expertise 
of our US operations which have already established a supply chain 
for the specialist products in this sector. These developments have 
also provided a good platform for the larger market on the east coast 
of Australia.
Our operations in Latin America have performed strongly in 2013  
and have grown substantially. Despite slower economic growth  
and currency volatility in Brazil, the organic revenue growth there 
continued to be strong and was supplemented by a significant impact 
from acquisitions both in Brazil and elsewhere in Latin America.
Our personal protection equipment businesses in Brazil have 
continued to develop positively. Prot Cap has gained several new  
key accounts and has successfully introduced new products and 
suppliers to its portfolio. This has resulted in a strong performance 
with increases in both revenue and operating profit. We are  
currently investing in a new distribution centre in São Paulo that  
will significantly improve our efficiency and establish a sustainable 
platform for future growth. Danny, our own brand redistribution 
safety business, has been successfully integrated into the Group and 
continues to introduce new innovative solutions for our customers. 
Vicsa Brasil, which was acquired in February 2013, is meeting our 
expectations and is also benefiting from purchasing synergies.  
In particular the own label products they have developed have 
expanded the range of our product offering in the safety sector 
throughout Brazil. Its back office operation has been successfully 
integrated with Danny’s and we are continuing to invest in more 
efficient logistics solutions. Finally, the acquisition of De Santis in 
December has further expanded our presence in the safety sector. 
Overall our safety businesses in Brazil performed strongly with 
substantial growth in both sales and operating profit.
Ideal, our cleaning and hygiene business in Brazil, achieved good 
organic growth winning some new key accounts and also improving 
gross margins which together have led to an increase in profitability.
In March we acquired Labor Import which is principally engaged in 
the distribution of own label medical and healthcare consumables 
and represents our first move into the healthcare sector in Brazil.  
It has a market leading position and an excellent customer base 
which should provide a platform for us to develop a strong presence 
in this sector going forward. The company has integrated well and  
we are in the process of implementing a new IT platform.
Vicsa Safety, our personal protection equipment business with 
operations in Chile, Argentina, Peru, Colombia and Mexico which  
was purchased in December 2012, is performing in line with our 
expectations. New product development and partnerships with our 
global suppliers are providing interesting opportunities in the region, 
particularly in the mining and retail sectors. The business has moved 
to new distribution centres in Chile and Colombia which will be key  
for our future expansion in the region. We are introducing new 
product lines and also benefiting from synergies both within Vicsa’s 
operations in Latin America and other Bunzl companies.
The acquisition of Espomega in August has significantly expanded  
our safety business in Mexico and has extended our product offering 
to customers in this large and important market. Despite some 
volatility in the Mexican economy, the business performed strongly  
in 2013 and is integrating well.
+65%
Increase in 
operating profit  
at constant 
exchange rates
‘WE HAVE CONTINUED TO FOCUS  
ON OPERATIONAL EFFICIENCIES IN  
A WEAK ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT  
WHILE EXTENDING OUR OPERATIONS IN 
AUSTRALASIA INTO THE SAFETY SECTOR.’
K i m 	 Hether i n g to n
Managing Director Australasia
‘  THE COMBINATION OF STRONG  
ORGANIC GROWTH AND THE IMPACT  
OF ACQUISITIONS IN BOTH NEW AND 
EXISTING COUNTRIES AND SECTORS  
HAS TRANSFORMED THE SIZE OF OUR 
BUSINESS IN LATIN AMERICA.’
Rod r ig o 	 Masc a renh as
Managing Director Latin America
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 23
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED 24 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 LISTEN
PROVIDE
CARE
By listening to their needs, we have formed 
strong partnerships with our customers, 
providing them with reliable and value-added 
outsourcing solutions and service oriented 
distribution across the Americas, Europe 
and Australasia.
360+
Warehouse  
locations  
throughout 
the world
WE CARE 
PASSIONATELY 
ABOUT OUR 
BUSINESS TO 
ENSURE THAT OUR 
STAKEHOLDERS’ 
REQUIREMENTS  
ARE FULLY MET
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 25
