 18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
OPERATING PERFORMANCE
2014 has proved to be another successful year for the Group due to a 
combination of good organic growth and the impact from acquisitions 
made in 2013 as well as those businesses purchased during the year.
The overall negative translation effect of currency movements has 
significantly decreased the reported Group growth rates of both 
revenue and profit. As in previous years, the operations, including 
the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange 
rates to remove the distorting impact of these currency movements. 
Changes in the level of revenue and profits at constant exchange 
rates have been calculated by retranslating the results for 2013 at the 
average rates used for 2014. Unless otherwise stated, all references 
in this review to operating profit are to adjusted operating profit 
(being operating profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition 
related costs). 
Revenue increased 7% (1% at actual exchange rates) to £6,156.5 
million and operating profit was £429.8 million, an increase of 10% 
(4% at actual exchange rates). The percentage growth in operating 
profit was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in 
Group operating margin by 20 basis points to 7.0% as a result of 
increases in the operating margin in Continental Europe, UK & 
Ireland and Rest of the World. 
In North America revenue rose 5% (down 1% at actual exchange 
rates) due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of 
acquisitions completed in both 2013 and 2014, while operating profit 
also increased 5% (down 1% at actual exchange rates). Revenue in 
Continental Europe rose 5% (unchanged at actual exchange rates) 
as a result of improved organic revenue growth and the impact of 
acquisitions, with operating profit up 12% (6% at actual exchange 
rates) as margins improved by 60 basis points to 9.0%. In UK & 
Ireland revenue was up 6% (6% at actual exchange rates) due to the 
impact of strong organic growth and acquisitions, but operating profit 
rose 12% at both constant and actual exchange rates as margins 
improved by a further 40 basis points during the year to 7.4%. In Rest 
of the World revenue increased 21% (6% at actual exchange rates) 
and operating profit was up 24% (8% at actual exchange rates), 
principally due to strong organic revenue growth and the substantial 
impact of acquisitions in Latin America.
Basic earnings per share were 8% higher (2% at actual exchange 
rates) at 64.5p. Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the 
effect of intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs, were 
86.2p, an increase of 11% (5% at actual exchange rates). The return 
on average operating capital increased from 56.9% to 57.7% and 
return on invested capital was 17.6%, a slight decrease from 2013 
as improved returns in the underlying business were offset by 
the adverse impact of recent acquisitions and exchange rates.
Our operating cash flow continued to be strong with the ratio of 
operating cash flow before acquisition related costs to operating 
profit at 95%. The net debt to EBITDA ratio increased marginally 
to 1.9 times compared to 1.8 times as at the previous year end. 
Sustainable business practice is emphasised through our ongoing 
Corporate Responsibility (‘CR’) programmes. During the year we 
undertook a detailed employee survey and were pleased that over 
70% of our employees responded and that 93% of respondents ‘enjoy 
working for Bunzl’. Our continued focus on operational excellence 
allows us to reduce our environmental impact by consolidating our 
warehouse footprint and, where necessary, introducing more 
sustainable practices to the businesses we acquire. 
ACQUISITIONS
Acquisitions are a key component of the Group’s growth strategy. 
Our committed spend in 2014 was £211 million as we made 17 
transactions in total, including Tillman which we agreed to acquire 
in December 2014 and completed at the beginning of January 2015.
At the end of January 2014 we acquired Bäumer and its related 
company Protemo in Germany. The businesses had aggregated 
revenue of £10 million in 2014 and represent our first step into the 
cleaning and hygiene and healthcare sectors in Germany. Oskar 
Plast, which sells a variety of disposable packaging products to 
customers throughout the Czech Republic, including retail food 
chains, food processors and other distributors, was acquired in 
February and has expanded our operations in the Czech Republic. 
Revenue was £12 million in 2014.
In March we completed four acquisitions. Lamedid, a business 
principally engaged in the supply and distribution throughout Brazil 
of own label medical and healthcare consumable products to 
hospitals, clinics and laboratories as well as to distributors, had 
revenue in 2014 of £13 million. It has significantly increased the size 
of our healthcare business in Brazil, the Group having entered the 
healthcare sector there with the acquisition of Labor Import in 2013. 
Although relatively small, the purchase of Nelson Packaging, a 
business principally engaged in the distribution of packaging and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies to end users in the commercial and 
industrial market sectors, has provided additional scale to our 
business in New Zealand. Revenue was £3 million in 2014. Plast 
Techs, which is engaged in the sale of a variety of foodservice and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies to distributors throughout Southern 
California and had revenue of £14 million in 2014, complements our 
existing business in the region and has provided access to additional 
product lines. The purchase of Tecno Boga represents a significant 
expansion of our operations in Chile, being a country that we entered 
with the acquisition of Vicsa Safety at the end of 2012. The business  
is a leading supplier of own label protective footwear, principally to 
distributors, and had revenue of £23 million in 2014.
Allshoes, a distributor of both branded and own brand safety and 
work shoes to a variety of wholesalers as well as to retailers, 
principally in the Netherlands but also in Belgium, was acquired in 
May. It represents an important development for our safety business 
in the Netherlands as it extends our product range in the safety 
shoes sector and provides cross-selling opportunities with Majestic, 
our existing personal protection equipment business in the Benelux 
region which specialises in the supply of gloves and workwear.  BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 19
Management team
Managers from across the Group meet regularly to review 
performance, discuss trends affecting our businesses and seek 
further opportunities for growth and competitive advantage.
Brian May 
Finance Director
Paul Hussey 
General Counsel & 
Company Secretary
Frank van Zanten 
Managing Director 
Continental Europe
Patrick Larmon 
President and CEO 
North America
Paul Budge 
Managing Director  
UK & Ireland
Rodrigo Mascarenhas 
Managing Director  
Latin America
Celia Baxter 
Director of Group 
Human Resources
Andrew Mooney 
Director of Corporate 
Development
Kim Hetherington 
Managing Director 
Australasia
Revenue in 2014 was £18 million. Also in May we acquired JPLUS, 
a Brazilian business with revenue of £12 million in 2014 principally 
engaged in the distribution of cleaning and hygiene supplies and 
disposable products to a variety of end user customers, particularly 
in the contract cleaning and healthcare sectors. This acquisition 
expands the geographical coverage of our cleaning and hygiene 
supplies business in Brazil. 
365 Healthcare, which had revenue of £12 million in 2014, was 
acquired at the end of June. The business is engaged in the 
distribution of own brand healthcare products to a variety of 
customers in the UK and Ireland and has expanded our product 
offering of medical consumables to the healthcare sector. At the 
end of July we purchased Premiere Products, a cleaning and hygiene 
supplies distributor in the UK principally servicing customers in 
the facilities management and education sectors. The business 
has extended the breadth of our own brand product offering and 
has further strengthened our cleaning and hygiene supplies business 
in the UK. Revenue was £4 million in 2014. We acquired two safety 
businesses in the UK also at the end of July. Lee Brothers, which 
had revenue of £11 million in 2014, supplies a variety of personal 
protection equipment and workplace consumables to customers 
largely in the construction and engineering sectors. Guardsman, 
which had revenue of £9 million in 2014, is engaged in the sale 
of safety equipment and workwear to customers in various 
manufacturing industries as well as the construction and 
engineering sectors. Together these businesses have further 
extended our safety business in the UK.
At the end of September we completed the acquisition of De Ridder, 
a specialist distribution business based in the Netherlands and 
engaged in the supply of a wide range of products principally to 
prisons, police stations and other detention centres. Revenue in 2014 
was £6 million. We acquired the business of Victoria Healthcare 
Products in November. Based near Melbourne, Australia, the 
business had revenue of £2 million in 2014 and supplies a variety 
of healthcare consumable products for people in the community 
and to residential care facilities. 
In North America our operations in Canada were further expanded 
with the purchase of Acme Supplies, a cleaning and hygiene supplies 
business based in Vancouver Island, at the beginning of December. 
Revenue in 2014 was £9 million. Our marketing services business in 
the UK was expanded in December with the purchase of POS Direct. 
Based in Leicester and with revenue of £4 million in 2014, the 
business manages and supplies a variety of point of sale and 
marketing materials. At the end of December we entered into an 
agreement to acquire Tillman, which supplies a variety of personal 
protection equipment, principally gloves, to distributors throughout 
the US who supply customers operating in the welding and industrial 
sectors. The acquisition was completed at the beginning of January 
2015. With revenue of £61 million in 2014, the purchase of Tillman 
represents another important development for the Group‘s safety 
business in the US. 
Today we are announcing two more acquisitions. Quirumed, which 
had revenue of £15 million in 2014, represents our first move into 
the healthcare sector in Spain while Jan-Mar, based in Toronto with 
revenue of £6 million in 2014, has further extended our cleaning and 
hygiene supplies business in Canada.
PROSPECTS
Bunzl’s strong market position and the ongoing benefit from 
acquisitions is expected to lead to further growth at constant 
exchange rates in each of our business areas in 2015 despite variable 
macroeconomic conditions across the countries in which we operate. 
In North America the impact of organic growth and recent 
acquisitions should result in a good performance. Even though 
the economic outlook remains challenging in Continental Europe, 
we expect to see continued growth this year. UK & Ireland should 
progress as a result of further organic growth and the contribution 
from acquisitions made in 2014. Although Rest of the World is likely 
to experience more difficult trading conditions due to exchange rate 
volatility and the slowdown in the resource sectors, it should 
continue to grow.
The pipeline of potential acquisitions remains promising. Discussions 
are ongoing with various targets and we expect to complete further 
transactions as the year progresses.
The Board is confident that Bunzl’s well positioned businesses will 
develop further and that the prospects for the Group are positive.
Michael Roney
Chief Executive 
23 February 2015 20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
NORTH  
AMERICA
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 3,372.1 3,401.7 (1) 5
Adjusted operating 
profit* 211.1 213.6 (1) 5
Operating margin* 6.3% 6.3%
Return on  
operating capital 59.6% 61.2%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In North America revenue increased by 5% to £3,372.1 million due 
to organic revenue growth with new and existing customers and 
additional sales provided by acquisitions made in both 2013 and 2014. 
Each of these acquisitions has allowed us to expand our product and 
service offerings through their unique capabilities and strong market 
presence. With the operating margin stable, the operating profit also 
increased 5% to £211.1 million.
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, was impacted 
by the severe winter weather which affected much of the US in the 
first quarter of the year but continued to experience sales growth in 
an environment of mergers and acquisitions, expansion and channel 
diversification amongst our customer base. During 2014 we renewed 
several supply agreements with national and regional grocery 
wholesalers and retailers. At the same time we maintained strong 
business relationships with many long term customers, including 
some of the largest supermarket chains and discount supercentres 
in the US and Canada, although margins came under pressure. To 
promote our capabilities within the grocery sector, we launched our 
‘Think Big’ branding campaign targeting executive leadership. The 
campaign’s message emphasises our ability to help our customers’ 
decision makers decrease costs and reduce the levels of inventories 
while increasing revenues through better merchandising and 
category management.
Our business serving the retail sector continued to drive strong 
organic growth. We secured a substantial new agreement with a 
leading North American home improvement retailer and expanded 
business with existing customers. Our unique ability to deliver a 
combination of custom store supply programmes, branded 
packaging, display solutions and fixture consolidation services has 
allowed us to solidify our position as a preferred business partner 
for retailers seeking a one-stop-shop to serve all of their locations. 
Both our grocery and retail sector customers value the advantages 
we provide through our customised distribution platform, including 
our product and sourcing expertise, high fill rates and bespoke 
reporting capabilities as well as the reliable delivery service provided 
by our own large transport fleet which together give us a real 
competitive advantage.
Our redistribution business, which serves distributors in the 
foodservice, cleaning and hygiene and safety sectors, was also 
affected by the unfavourable weather conditions early in the year. 
In a competitive and challenging market, the business experienced 
a slight increase in revenue as a result of the impact of recent 
acquisitions. We are working to stimulate sales growth by increasing 
our marketing activities, expanding our category management 
initiatives and adding complementary businesses to extend our 
product range and market reach. With our ‘R3 Factor’ branding 
campaign, we engaged with our foodservice and cleaning and 
hygiene distribution customers about the advantages of using our 
coast-to-coast branch network as their ‘virtual warehouse’. This 
provides our customers with access to an unmatched range of 
products and supply chain services they can leverage to increase 
their sales and profitability while managing their working capital 
more efficiently. In addition, our expanded category management 
practice positions us well to use our distribution expertise to help 
customers rationalise their inventories, manage their warehouse 
space more effectively and gain a competitive advantage. The 
acquisition in March of Plast Techs, a supplier of foodservice and 
cleaning and hygiene products to distributors in Southern California, 
has augmented our redistribution business in the region while 
providing access to additional product lines.
SAS Safety, which we acquired in December 2013, and Tillman, which 
was purchased at the beginning of 2015, have significantly broadened 
our range of own brand personal protection equipment solutions and 
allowed us to expand into the industrial, automotive and welding 
distribution markets. FoodHandler expanded its food safety product 
line with several exclusive innovative products and has become a 
one-stop-shop for foodservice operators. Additionally, our expertise 
in creating and distributing imported and domestic own brand 
products allows us to provide our customers across all sectors with 
a range of value solutions that meet their particular specifications 
and budgets.
Our business supplying the food processor sector experienced 
revenue growth by increasing sales to existing customers and 
acquiring new customers. Our national accounts team provided 
greater focus on selling our value to key customers while offering 
centralised management for our customers’ extensive operations. 
We also introduced a range of technical packaging that helps food 
processors preserve product freshness and taste. We continue to 
serve all sectors of the food processing industry, including meat 
and home meal processors, bakeries, fresh produce providers 
and speciality food purveyors.
3 ACQUISITIONS
+5% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DRIVING INNOVATIONS ‘ Our extensive experience 
in making successful 
acquisitions has once 
again brought additional 
innovation and expertise 
which have helped to 
develop and expand 
our business further.’
 Patrick Larmon
 President and CEO North America
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 21
In the agriculture sector, our business grew as a result of our 
ability to provide a wider range of products to produce growers, 
packers and shippers across North America. With our expertise 
in customised flexible and rigid packaging design and distribution, 
we are able to help our agriculture customers meet the rising 
demand from health-conscious consumers who are increasing 
their consumption of fresh produce.
In the convenience store sector, we experienced strong organic 
growth, primarily due to new programmes distributing 
consumable products through our largest convenience store 
wholesale customer.
In Canada the acquisition of Wesclean in 2013 has helped us to 
increase our sales in the cleaning and hygiene sector during the 
year and our acquisition of Acme Supplies in December 2014 has 
further increased our presence in this sector. In Mexico, ProEpta, 
which we also acquired in 2013, has expanded our reach in the 
hospitality sector and has increased revenue by providing 
products for prominent national and international customers.
3 ACQUISITIONS
+5% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DRIVING INNOVATIONS 4 ACQUISITIONS
+12% increase in adjusted operating  
profit at constant exchange rates
REDUCING COSTS
22 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
CONTINENTAL 
EUROPE
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 1,146.3 1,151.5 0 5
Adjusted operating 
profit* 103.2 97.0 6 12
Operating margin* 9.0% 8.4%
Return on  
operating capital 52.3% 47.5%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose by 5% to £1,146.3 million and 
operating profit improved 12% to £103.2 million with the operating 
margin increasing from 8.4% to 9.0%. Organic revenue growth for 
the year was relatively low as macroeconomic conditions continued 
to be difficult throughout the region, but further improvements to 
gross margins and careful operating cost management contributed 
to a strong increase in underlying profitability. This has been 
supplemented by the full year impact of the acquisition in November 
2013 of pka Klöcker and by the acquisitions in 2014 of Bäumer, 
Oskar Plast, Allshoes and De Ridder. 
In France, our cleaning and hygiene business saw a slight decline in 
sales as good performances in the healthcare, food processor and 
industrial sectors were offset by lower sales to contract cleaners 
who continue to struggle in the difficult economic environment. 
However, a combination of an improvement in gross margins and a 
reduction in operating costs resulted in a significant improvement 
in operating profit. Our personal protection equipment business both 
increased sales and reduced costs such that it also delivered strong 
operating profit growth.
In the Netherlands, sales improved in the food processor, retail, 
healthcare and cleaning and hygiene sectors but sales declined in 
the grocery sector, due to customer consolidation, and in the hotel, 
restaurant and catering (‘horeca’) sector, which continues to be 
under pressure in the local market. Gross margins improved, 
operating costs were tightly managed and a further two businesses 
successfully migrated to our IT system. Sales continued to grow 
strongly at our safety products business as it gained new customers 
and market share and also benefited from growth with new products. 
Together with improved margins due to an increasing share of own 
brand products, this led to substantially higher operating profits. 
Both Allshoes and De Ridder, which were acquired during the year, 
have traded as expected and are integrating well into the Group.
In Belgium, sales grew well in the cleaning and hygiene sector due 
to growth with both existing and new customers, and also increased 
in the grocery sector despite our customers facing continued 
competition from a number of lower cost grocery chains. Although 
margins were under pressure, costs were stable and the sales 
growth therefore led to an improved level of overall profits.
In Germany, sales in our main business have grown significantly 
in the hotel sector and with smaller regional accounts leading to 
a healthy increase in operating profit and our workwear business, 
pka Klöcker, which was acquired in 2013, has traded well. A number 
of significant synergies have been realised in Bäumer, the cleaning 
and hygiene business that was purchased in January 2014.
In Switzerland, sales have increased with a good performance in 
particular in the retail sector. Gross margins were stable and costs 
were well controlled which resulted in operating profit being ahead 
of the previous year. 
In Denmark, sales declined slightly as disappointing performances 
in the retail and redistribution sectors could not be completely offset 
by good sales growth of horeca products, personal protection 
equipment and packaging. Sales to the public sector were stable. 
However, gross margins improved and costs were further reduced 
such that operating profit increased.
In Spain, trading conditions continued to improve and we recorded 
good growth in our cleaning and hygiene business. Gross margins 
were stable and operating profit progressed well. We also generated 
excellent growth in our personal protection equipment businesses 
due to exports and better domestic sales. Gross margins were also 
slightly better and operating profit improved significantly.
In Central Europe, sales grew strongly, particularly in Hungary 
where both our retail and cleaning and hygiene/personal protection 
equipment businesses performed well. Gross margins were stable 
despite ongoing margin pressure and cost increases were kept to 
a minimum such that operating profit rose. Oskar Plast, which we 
acquired in February 2014, and our existing Czech retail business 
are in the process of being fully integrated which will lead to a 
number of synergies.
In Israel, both of our businesses saw lower sales and profits due to 
difficult market conditions, particularly in our business supplying the 
bakery sector. Our business supplying the horeca sector successfully 
relocated to a new purpose-built facility. ‘ The efficiency and profitability of the 
businesses we acquire are improved by 
retaining the key management and by 
Bunzl providing the necessary financial 
discipline, support and investment.’
 Frank van Zanten
 Managing Director Continental Europe
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 23 5 ACQUISITIONS
+12% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
DEVELOPING RELATIONSHIPS
24 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
UK &  
IRELAND
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 1,078.5 1,018.5 6 6
Adjusted operating 
profit* 80.1 71.6 12 12
Operating margin* 7.4% 7.0%
Return on  
operating capital 111.7% 98.8%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In UK & Ireland revenue increased 6% to £1,078.5 million and 
operating profit rose 12% to £80.1 million. While our markets are 
highly competitive and customers are discerning and looking at all 
items of spend in great detail seeking to reduce cost, underlying 
demand has grown which has helped us to deliver strong growth. 
The detailed work that has been undertaken since the economic 
downturn to reduce our overhead cost base and also to manage 
margins closely has helped to increase the operating margin over 
recent years and the margin improved further in 2014 rising from 
7.0% to 7.4%.
In a number of our businesses we have continued to build actively 
on our private label programme as we seek to reduce costs 
for customers, enhance our own margins and maintain a quality 
offering. As a consequence we have seen the sales of our private 
label products grow well. During the year we launched a complete 
range of glassware and crockery as well as new ranges of medical 
consumables, cleaning chemical dispensers and compostable and 
recyclable paper cups.
In safety supplies, we have seen a pick-up in construction activity 
during the year and have been successful in winning new business 
with a number of major companies. The acquisition of both Lee 
Brothers and Guardsman has given us access to a number of new key 
customers and both businesses have integrated into the Group well. 
In cleaning and hygiene supplies, the market has continued to be 
resilient although there has been further consolidation amongst our 
customer base. The acquisition of Premiere Products in July has 
proved to be a very good fit with our existing operations in this sector.
As has been widely reported, there has been a fair degree of market 
turmoil in the grocery sector. In this environment we are pleased to 
have maintained our levels of sales and profitability by continuing to 
assist our customers as their models evolve. This means that we are 
now offering more flexible supply solutions to help our customers 
move to omni-channel retailing in the form of direct deliveries to 
smaller retail outlets and also to support their online offerings. 
As our customers constantly seek to reduce their costs, we have 
focused on our procurement competence and successfully reduced 
our input costs during the year. Scotland introduced a minimum 
5p tax on single use carrier bags in 2014 and England will follow 
in October 2015. This has to date, and will in future, reduce the 
demand for such carrier bags but we are anticipating that this 
will be largely offset by increased use of reusable ‘bags for life’ 
which we also supply. Our specialist retail packaging business has 
performed well through winning business with a number of new 
customers and continuing to develop our offering to enhance the 
presentation of customers’ brands. Our sales offices in Hong Kong 
and Shenzhen, China have proved to be very attractive to global 
branded customers and have helped to strengthen existing 
relationships and bring good opportunities for the future 
development of our business.
In our marketing services businesses, point of sale activity was 
strong, particularly in the consumer goods and grocery retail 
sectors, and also due to the FIFA World Cup. During the year we 
consolidated the number of facilities from six down to three with 
new warehouses in Blackburn and Rugby. These new facilities are 
of good quality and, in addition to being more efficient to service our 
customers, also provide a much improved working environment for 
our employees. In December 2014 we extended our offering in this 
area with the acquisition of POS Direct. 
There has been strong growth in our hospitality supplies business. 
As markets have recovered, a number of customers have 
commenced investment and refurbishment programmes. We also 
achieved good sales of catering equipment supplied in response to 
the government initiative of Universal Infant Free School Meals 
and a broader range of foodservice products provided during the 
Commonwealth Games in Glasgow. We continued to focus on the 
high street coffee and quick service restaurant market and have 
experienced good growth with existing customers and also added 
a number of new customers to our portfolio. Part of our strategy 
in this high volume and low margin market is to reduce the size of 
our operating platform. In 2014 we have consolidated our national 
distribution centre and two branches into a single 165,000 square 
foot facility in the West Midlands.
Our healthcare supplies businesses have continued to operate in 
a market with ongoing hospital spending constraints and reduced 
subsidies for care homes. Despite this, we have enjoyed good growth 
through securing increased supply to private hospitals and gaining 
business with four additional hospital trusts. The acquisition in June 
of 365 Healthcare, which specialises in drapes and gowns used in 
operating theatres, has proved to be a strong addition to our private 
label medical consumables offering. In our existing private label 
business, there have been good results from resourcing and 
subsequently launching new products in response to customers’ 
needs to reduce costs. We have continued to raise our profile in the 
care home sector with increased marketing activity and product 
range development, while also actively seeking to assist customers 
in complying with care quality regulations.
In Ireland the economy has continued to improve and we have 
benefited particularly from growth in the Dublin hotel market and 
the investment and refurbishment programmes that have started 
once again. Having taken the measures to reduce our cost base in 
previous years, we now have a much stronger foundation to operate 
from in Ireland which has produced substantially improved results 
in a well managed and controlled business. ‘ Through further 
development of 
customer relationships 
and by meeting and 
exceeding our 
customers’ needs, 
our organic revenue 
growth has returned 
to its highest level 
since 2007.’
 Paul Budge
 Managing Director UK & Ireland
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 5 ACQUISITIONS
+24% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
26 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW CONTINUED
REST OF  
THE WORLD
OVERVIEW
Growth %
£m 2014 2013 Reported
Constant 
exchange
Revenue 559.6 526.0 6 21
Adjusted operating 
profit* 55.5 51.2 8 24
Operating margin* 9.9% 9.7%
Return on  
operating capital 41.8% 47.1%
*Before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
In Rest of the World revenue increased 21% to £559.6 million and 
operating profit rose 24% to £55.5 million with the results being 
impacted significantly by the effect of recent acquisitions,  
particularly in Latin America. 
Our operations in Latin America have performed well despite weaker 
macroeconomic conditions and considerable volatility in the foreign 
exchange markets in several countries which has caused some 
margin pressure within our businesses. All of our businesses have 
strong market positions focused on creating value-added solutions 
for our customers and we continue to be well positioned to expand 
our operations further, both organically and through acquisition.
In Brazil our safety businesses had another successful year. Our new 
state-of-the-art distribution centre for Protcap in the metropolitan 
area of São Paulo has started operating and will be a critical platform 
for our future growth for many years to come. Protcap experienced 
weaker demand from the end user sector during the last quarter 
of the year as many customers postponed investment decisions in 
anticipation of economic adjustments to be implemented following 
the recent Presidential elections in Brazil. Protcap’s new Manaus 
branch has opened as scheduled in an important location. Based 
in a free trade zone, the new branch is strategically placed for a 
number of local manufacturing customers in the region. Danny and 
Vicsa Brasil both had a very strong year with significant synergies 
achieved as a result of streamlining our portfolio of brands across 
both businesses.
In our cleaning and hygiene supplies business there was pressure 
on margins due to the highly competitive environment in this sector. 
However the acquisition of JPLUS in May has increased our market 
presence and enabled us to realise a number of synergies. The 
new business has integrated well and is performing above our 
initial expectations.
The businesses serving the healthcare sector in Brazil produced 
good results despite the uncertainty caused by the Presidential 
elections and new legislation which affected the import of certain 
product lines. Labor Import performed strongly and Lamedid, 
which we acquired in March, also had a very good year. The business 
is integrating as planned and is starting to develop synergies 
with Labor Import.
In the rest of Latin America, Vicsa Safety, our safety business with 
operations in Chile, Argentina, Colombia, Peru and Mexico, had an 
excellent year despite a very soft trading environment in its main 
market in Chile which put margins under pressure. New customers 
and continuous product development were key to the overall strong 
performance.
Our ability to service the safety sector in Chile was enhanced with the 
acquisition of Tecno Boga in March. The business is a market leader 
in the supply of safety shoes. Although faced with difficult market 
conditions as a result of a decline in the mining sector, the business 
performed well and has been successfully integrated into the Group.
In Mexico, our glove safety business Espomega, which we acquired 
in 2013, has also been able to maintain its margins despite much 
volatility in the local market and very soft demand in the short term 
caused by a slowdown in the construction sector. The business is 
however well placed for when the economy starts to recover.
In Australia, the economy continues to be adversely affected by 
the slowdown following the mining investment boom and the fall  
in global commodity prices. This resources slowdown has had a 
direct impact on a number of our major customers supplying into 
these sectors which in turn has reduced demand for the products  
we supply. 
Our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies the 
healthcare, cleaning, catering and retail sectors, while impacted by 
market conditions, performed well with an improvement in revenue 
and operating profit as it continued to develop its position as a 
consolidator and supplier of disposable consumables throughout 
Australia and New Zealand. Whilst facing challenging trading 
conditions, the business has been able to offset some of the effects 
of the downturn across its customer base with a number of large 
customer wins. The business has continued to develop a good 
position in the healthcare sector, in particular to the aged care and 
private hospital markets, where we supply a wide range of disposable 
and medical consumables. In November we acquired a small 
business, Victoria Healthcare Products, which is a niche supplier of 
medical consumables and wound care products into the community 
and residential care markets. This has created an opportunity for our 
business in a section of our existing market where we previously did 
not have a strong presence.
Our food processor business, which is a major national supplier into 
the Australian and New Zealand food industry, delivered another 
improved performance with higher revenue and operating profit. We 
made good progress expanding the business into non-meat and other 
food processors and have invested in additional specialist resources 
to help drive these opportunities. This has benefited the business 
which has won a number of major customers in this market. Our 
ongoing focus will be to continue to develop this strategy and further 
consolidate our position as a leading national supplier into this 
sector. In March, we acquired Nelson Packaging, a packaging and 
cleaning and hygiene supplies company based in the South Island of 
New Zealand. This business has a strong presence in the processor  ‘ We are able to obtain 
an enhanced competitive 
advantage by optimising 
a variety of different 
synergies through 
sharing best practice 
across the Group and 
utilising our global 
purchasing scale.’
 Kim Hetherington
 Managing Director Australasia
‘ Our well established 
business model, which allows 
the companies we acquire to 
operate on a decentralised 
basis, provides an attractive 
option for owners looking to 
sell their businesses.’
 Rodrigo Mascarenhas
 Managing Director Latin America
5 ACQUISITIONS
+24% increase in adjusted operating 
profit at constant exchange rates
BUILDING ON SUCCESS
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27
and industrial markets in this region and has been a good addition 
to our business, providing further scale, expertise and distribution 
capabilities as we develop in the New Zealand market.
Our industrial and safety supplies business has been impacted 
the most by the slowdown in the mining and other resource sectors 
with its performance adversely affected as a result, leading to a 
lower level of operating profit at a reduced profit margin. To help 
offset this, we have taken a proactive approach to consolidate a 
number of facilities and made a number of structural changes to 
support the business performance in the current environment and 
reposition it for growth. We have also benefited from having access 
to and working with the wider Bunzl businesses. We have adopted 
a number of better purchasing, operational and technology 
initiatives, which are helping to improve our competitive position 
and efficiency. Although the market conditions have impacted 
volumes, the business has been successful in winning a number 
of major new customers. This has created potential to build on 
our strong product range offering and our market position as we 
continue to develop opportunities in the more resilient market 
sectors and regions.  28 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
BUILDING AND 
DEVELOPING 
LONG TERM 
RELATIONSHIPS BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29
BUILDING AND 
DEVELOPING 
LONG TERM 
RELATIONSHIPS
REDUCING WASTE
CONSOLIDATING
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT
By outsourcing the 
purchasing, consolidation 
and distribution of 
everyday items, our 
customers are able 
to focus on their core 
businesses, saving 
them time and money.
