 48
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER 49
I would like to mark a significant Board change. In July 2007,
Rose Marie Bravo stepped down following a twelve-month
period as Vice-Chairman. As Chief Executive of Burberry 
from 1997 to June 2006, Rose Marie led the Group through
a time of enormous growth and transformation. I would like 
to thank Rose Marie for her decade of leadership and
contribution to Burberry and for her support of the Group’s
strategic vision for the future.
On behalf of all shareholders, I thank Angela and the team
whose people work together so seamlessly to deliver
consistent growth. I am confident of their continued 
success and of the long-term performance of the iconic
Burberry brand.
John Peace
Chairman
2007/08 has seen strong growth in Burberry’s sales and
profits, while the team has successfully delivered on the
critical elements of the Group’s five-point strategy for
generating future value.
This year, the Group neared £1billion in total revenue,
representing 18% underlying growth compared to the
previous financial year. Adjusted operating profit increased 
by 14% underlying while adjusted diluted EPS increased 
9% to 31.6p. Accordingly, the Board has announced 
a 14% increase in the full year dividend to 12.0p, as we
progressively move to a dividend payout ratio of 40%. 
We also returned a further £40m to shareholders via a 
share buyback.
As you can see from this Annual Report, Burberry has 
five very clear and measurable strategic initiatives, which
determine how it acts and how it invests. During the year,
Burberry has made further progress in enhancing the luxury
quotient of the business (led by the success of our Prorsum
ranges), growing retail (with a record number of store
openings) and increasing the penetration of non-apparel 
(now 32% of retail/wholesale revenue). At the same time, we
have been investing to strengthen Burberry’s infrastructure,
improving efficiency and giving us a platform from which to
grow the business so we can deliver sustainable, long-term
value to shareholders.
Looking ahead, we are facing an increasingly volatile
economic environment. Against this background, Burberry
remains above all committed to creating value for our
shareholders via the evolution and execution of our 
strategic initiatives. 
