 6
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S LETTER 7
This context forced a reprioritisation of objectives. Looking 
to capitalise on the brand’s momentum, management
focused on the growth opportunities. SAP implementation
was re-phased to minimise potential disruption, while the
distribution and logistics reconfiguration required acceleration.
Implementation of other operational initiatives slowed relative
to the initial plan – supplier transition and Spain integration,
as examples.
The front end/back end tension required this accelerated
growth to be funded by incremental expense – from temporary
warehouse facilities to the parallel running and maintenance
of legacy information systems, among other limitations on 
the ability to rationalise the infrastructure as planned. 
Despite these impediments, the Group produced a 14%
increase in underlying adjusted operating profit for the year
against a 17% gain in the previous period.
Foundation for the future
While executing Phase I, management also began to lay 
the foundation for the plan’s next phases. New businesses,
including Burberry Sport and jewellery, were introduced.
Childrenswear was elevated to full product division status.
New, closer, collaborative relationships are being formed in
the Middle East and China, and a more precise view of the
opportunities in our large Spain business is emerging.
Beyond commercial activities, we have also formalised the
Burberry Foundation, its board of trustees, and the global
organisations it will initially support with grants and employee
volunteering and mentoring programmes as coordinated by
our internal employee board. The Foundation along with
Burberry’s new Horseferry headquarters will further unite 
our teams and solidify our culture.
Our teams around the world remain the most important
ingredient of Burberry’s success. Their passion, dedication,
adaptability and drive continue to impress and inspire me
every day. Together, we intensely executed on the core
strategies while navigating a transformational year, and
delivered strong financial results. With a powerful brand,
brilliant creative director and seasoned management team,
Burberry is well equipped to face the challenges of the 
year ahead. 
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Officer 
I am pleased to report that 2007/08 was another strong 
year for Burberry. We continued to be true to the brand’s
amazing heritage, while evolving to capture the present. 
We executed current priorities, while thoughtfully evolving
our plans and structure for the future.
Having refined the strategic agenda during 2006/07,
Burberry’s management and their teams were intensely
focused on executing across the five strategic themes in 
this first full year of execution. With these efforts, the first
stage of the strategic plan is now largely implemented. 
The Group achieved a milestone year: reaching nearly 
£1 billion in revenue, opening a record number of stores 
and concessions, and achieving double digit growth across
primary product categories, geographic regions and
wholesale and retail channels. The year’s 18% underlying
revenue growth was on top of 15% growth in 2006/07.
Intensely executing Phase I
Major execution themes in 2007/08 included:
– Organisation enhancement. Continued enhancement 
of the organisation’s efficiency and effectiveness.
Regionally, this was achieved with more complete
integrations of each of the European and Asian regions.
Functionally, the Group moved closer to its goal of a 
single, seamless design, merchandising and supply chain
organisation. Corporately, business units adopted more
formalised methods of reporting and communications.
– Front-end evolution. The front end also continued 
its evolution with the singular brand vision more clear
throughout the organisation and the ‘One Brand’ strategy
more consistently pursued. The year saw further alignment
of design and merchandising, a shift in marketing to
encompass the full brand expression and efforts to more
closely include global licensing partners in these initiatives.
– Back-end transformation. In 2007/08 fundamental
transformation of the back end of the business – the
operational core – began. SAP implementation entered 
its most intensive phase, with deployment in key central
functions and European retail operations. Restructuring 
of the sourcing network gained momentum and
reconfiguration of local distribution operations began. 
This fundamental transformation extends into 2008/09.
Dynamic prioritisation
This progression across the organisation, front and back
ends, resulted in a challenging tension. Advances on the 
front end enabled the business’s accelerated growth, while
creating ever greater demands on Burberry’s transitional
infrastructure. This growth was on top of the strong revenue
expansion in 2006/07.
