 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S LETTER
10
Extraordinary context
In April 2008, mindful of the softening economic
environment, Burberry began the 2008/09 ﬁnancial year
continuing to execute its strategic plan, consistent with
the previous two years. This course produced good ﬁrst
half results: during the period ended September 2008,
Group revenue increased 13% at constant exchange
rates (20% at reported rates), while adjusted operating
proﬁt increased 3%.
Mid-September then brought the onset of true economic
crisis – almost fully coincident with the start of Burberry’s
second half. This led to the addition of new, urgent
priorities to the agenda. While the core strategies remained
in effect, tactical adjustments were made. Matters relating
to inventory management, capital investment and expense
structure were evaluated in a new light. This drove
development of a £50m cost efﬁciency programme.
Involving all areas of the business throughout the world,
the programme presented a challenging shift for our
growth oriented organisation. The team responded
brilliantly to the task, and the programme is targeted
to underpin proﬁtability in 2009/10.
Continued progress
At the same time, good progress continued across
key strategies during the year.
• Front end. The front end of the business refers to
the public face of Burberry.
Brand. Burberry continued to purify the brand’s
message and enhance consistency across all forms
of its expression. During the year, the Group completed
and relocated to new global headquarters in central
London. Designed internally, Horseferry House is a
comprehensive expression of the Burberry brand –
for customers, partners and employees. Store base
upgrading continued, with renovation of the London
Knightsbridge and Beverly Hills ﬂagships as highlights.
Product. Our talented design and merchandising
teams responded quickly to the changing environment.
Through continued innovation, outerwear remained
at the centre of our business. Signiﬁcant, new brand
platforms brought further progress in underdeveloped
segments of our product architecture, while new
interpretations of classic icons addressed a
consumer trend toward authenticity and heritage. 11
Burberry Foundation. Aimed at empowering the
intellectual creativity of young people, the Burberry
Foundation began operating in earnest. During the
year, the Foundation engaged with high performing
charities in key cities and added internal expertise
and energy to the Foundation’s monetary contributions
through an employee engagement programme.
These accomplishments, strategic and operational,
ongoing and exceptional, point to the quality of Burberry’s
teams throughout the world and their ability to work as
a single team. In the end, the full year ﬁnancial results
of a 7% revenue increase (currency adjusted) and 12%
adjusted operating proﬁt decline are more in keeping
with external conditions than internal efforts.
Staying the course
A look forward presents a distinct lack of visibility regarding
the economy and consumer behaviour. While the precise
timing is unclear, economic recovery is anticipated to begin
within this year or the next. With respect to the luxury
sector, we believe the consumer preferences which fuelled
growth during the past 15 years will remain relevant.
So, fundamentally, Burberry plans to stay the course.
The brand has perhaps never been better positioned.
Relative momentum is strong and our strategies have
proven effective. Burberry’s 150-year heritage and the
authenticity of core products stand the business well amid
the uncertainty. At the same time, we approach 2009/10
with caution. Sales are planned conservatively and the
expense structure has been rationalised with an ongoing
focus on costs. Capital investment plans are reduced.
Management is maintaining ﬂexibility and vigilantly
monitoring the business to respond to unanticipated
changes. Still, this united, dynamic team remains
optimistic, with a strong belief that Burberry can prosper.
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
Regions. Burberry strengthened its position in
important underdeveloped markets through the
establishment of new operating structures. The
Group transformed its existing Middle East franchise
relationship to a joint venture to best capitalise on
the potential of this high growth region. Burberry also
formed a joint venture with current licensees to develop
the brand’s luxury accessories categories in Japan,
the world’s largest luxury accessories market.
• Back-of-house. Continuous operational improvement
remains a primary objective.
Merchandising. Enhancing merchandising disciplines
across Burberry’s complex product assortments to
improve efﬁciency has been a key goal. Through
implementation in 2008/09 of a global planning
function, more targeted design processes and new
regional purchasing models, the Group expects
signiﬁcant expense savings, improved working
capital management and higher retail sell-through
in future seasons.
Infrastructure. The year also allowed the Group’s
infrastructure to continue to catch up with its front
end. Modernisation of the supply chain continued
with the move to a more sophisticated sourcing
base and a reﬁned logistics operation, producing
substantial expense savings. SAP implementation
neared completion with the Americas region going
live at year end.
• Great brand/Great company. In addition to a great
brand, Burberry aspires to be a great company.
The Group advanced across several measures
during the year.
Supply chain. In supply chain, increased investment
in ethical compliance teams enhanced visibility of
supplier operations and improved practices in line
with Burberry’s values.
Environment. Burberry continued efforts to thoughtfully
reduce its environmental impact. The Group
signiﬁcantly reduced carbon emissions during the year
through relocation to the new energy-efﬁcient global
headquarters, policy shift from air to sea for product
shipments and adjusting activities to reduce
dependency on international travel.
