 CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
By most measures – strategic, operational and ﬁnancial –
performance was strong. Strategically, important action was
taken in the continued effort to address legacy issues with
respect to brand integrity. This included upgrading wholesale
distribution and restructuring the Group’s operations in
Spain. At the same time, management projected the brand
into the future by establishing a clear leadership position
among luxury brands in the digital arena. Operationally, 
the team executed a £50m cost efﬁciency programme.
These are a few highlights of the year’s strategic and
operational achievements which this annual report 
outlines more completely in the pages that follow.
Much of this progress was reﬂected in the ﬁnancial results. 
In a contracting luxury market, Burberry achieved revenue
of £1.3bn, a 1% increase at constant exchange rates, 
7% reported. Operating proﬁt increased 22% to £220m,
while diluted EPS increased 16% to 35.1p – both 
of these on an adjusted basis. After-tax return on 
capital remained strong at 28% on an adjusted basis. 
In light of these results, the Board has recommended 
a 17% increase in the full year dividend to 14.0p.
In other developments, John Smith, Chief Executive of
BBC Worldwide, joined the Group’s Board of Directors 
in December. John’s understanding of brands in
combination with his media expertise will contribute 
to Burberry’s future advancement.
Relative to luxury peers both public and private, Burberry’s
performance was among the best in the sector during
2009/10. While the results demonstrate the efforts of many
talented individuals, their ability to work closely as a team
under these extraordinary conditions may be more the
determining factor. I congratulate everyone at Burberry 
for their teamwork throughout the year. Looking forward, 
I remain conﬁdent that Burberry possesses the brand,
strategy and team to continue to prosper in the 
years ahead.
John Peace
Chairman
8
In April 2009, Burberry’s ﬁnancial year began in the midst 
of the weakest and most uncertain consumer spending
environment in decades. Within this context, management
planned a challenging agenda for the year ahead. 
On one hand, goals were set with respect to defensive
measures, including expense reduction and working capital
management. On the other, in keeping with the perceived
opportunities and ambitions of both management and 
the Board, the commitment to invest in the vitality of the
Burberry brand and development of the business was
maintained. Although balancing the short and long term 
is a fundamental task of management, the combination 
of a unique environment and the outstanding prospects 
for Burberry offered a particularly complex assignment
requiring a broad range of executive skill and expertise. 
