 driver of Group performance. Management believed
compromising on investment in Burberry’s consumer-
facing elements would restrict both current and future
performance. In line with this, we undertook several
key initiatives in the year:
– Burberry continued to build sector-leading digital
marketing expertise, enhancing the Group’s ability
to develop compelling content and distribute it
effectively. A highlight in the year was the launch 
of artofthetrench.com, a social media website
which introduces the iconic trench coat to the
digital generation and is attracting a new, 
younger customer to the brand.
– We marked the 25th anniversary of London
Fashion Week, by relocating the women’s Spring
2010 runway show to London from Milan in
September. This geographical reconnection of
Burberry with its British heritage brought extensive
press and editorial coverage. Burberry’s reputation
as a digital leader was further enhanced with the
Autumn 2010 show, which, in addition to 
live streaming over the internet, was broadcast 
in 3D in ﬁve cities around the globe and allowed
consumers to purchase runway items directly for
expedited delivery – both ﬁrsts in the luxury sector.
– The relabelling of the casual component of the
women’s and men’s apparel lines as Burberry Brit
brought greater clarity to the brand’s segmentation.
This separation from the more sartorial Burberry
London portion of the lines allows the businesses to
offer more complete assortments in each of these
segments and target distribution more effectively. 
– Burberry stores are among the best vehicles 
to communicate the full brand message to
consumers. Management selectively added stores
in high-potential urban markets and upgraded
important stores in prominent locations, as well 
as opening the ﬁrst standalone test stores for the
Burberry Brit and London lines. In the ongoing
effort to improve the customer experience, the
Group extended the roll-out of the Burberry
Experience, a comprehensive sales and service
programme, to all stores worldwide.
– As part of the ongoing strengthening of the
important wholesale operations, we opened new
headquarters with state-of-the-art showrooms 
in New York City and Tokyo.
• Emphasising proﬁtability over revenue growth.
Historically, Burberry has pursued strong revenue
growth while maintaining proﬁtability. In 2009/10, the
dramatically slowed consumer environment pressured
both gross margin and expense structure with a
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S LETTER
10
In a highly uncertain consumer spending environment,
management and the Board began the ﬁnancial year
planning to stay the strategic course. At the highest level,
the Group’s primary objectives are the continued elevation
and building of the Burberry brand, and ensuring the
Company remains ﬁrmly on a path of sustained, proﬁtable
growth over the long term. During the two and a half years
prior to the ﬁnancial crisis, Burberry’s strategies had proven
effective at delivering on these objectives. As we moved
into 2009/10, our analysis indicated that the fundamentals
which had driven expansion of the luxury sector historically
were likely to remain relevant. We also believed that
Burberry was relatively well positioned for progress under
most economic recovery scenarios. In this context, 
we elected to stay the course.
At the same time, management tailored execution in
keeping with existing market conditions. This is captured
by the following three themes:
• Maintaining investment in consumer-facing elements.
Through investment prior to the crisis, the brand had
achieved strong momentum, which had been a clear leveraged adverse effect on income. Moderating its
growth orientation in the near term, management entered
the year emphasising proﬁtability over revenue growth. 
– To maximise gross margin, merchant teams
continued to reduce assortment sizes across
categories. This resulted in more focused
collections leading to enhanced sourcing
efﬁciencies, more consistent in-store presentation
and improved sell-through rates. The teams also
revised mark-down policies to capitalise on 
the less seasonal elements of the collections.
Retail/wholesale gross margin increased from
52.1% in 2008/09 to 59.7% in 2009/10.
– Management successfully executed the £50m 
cost efﬁciency programme announced in 2008/09.
Approximately half of the gains were driven by
supply chain and corporate process efﬁciencies
with cost reductions accounting for the remainder.
– Leveraging the investment in systems and planning
expertise, the Group improved inventory
management in the year. Inventory levels were
reduced 36% year over year.
– The Group also undertook the restructuring of 
the business in Spain against a backdrop of
deteriorating performance and the poor state of
Spain’s economy. While difﬁcult, the closing of that
operation in favour of integrating this market with
the global Burberry business is in the long-term
best interests of the brand.
• Prepared to respond to a changing environment.
Recognising that the trading environment was likely 
to be volatile, management monitored conditions
carefully to respond quickly to new opportunities 
and emerging risks.
– Although starting the year with a conservative
inventory plan, we prepared to respond to changes
in demand. As the tone of business improved,
management capitalised on supply chain
investment and restructuring during the past three
years to speed deliveries of future season product.
In addition, the April Showers capsule collection
was designed and delivered to stores through an
expedited 12-week cycle – this was similarly
enabled by supply chain and systems investments
over the past several years.
– With an improving pace of business, the team 
used the Group’ s strong ﬁnancial position to complete
additional attractive real estate transactions, against a
conservative plan. In total, Burberry added net 21
stores with 9% space expansion. 
– The challenging consumer conditions in Japan
afforded the Group the opportunity to amend its
largest licence agreement in this market. With the
amendment, Burberry has greatly enhanced its
long-term strategic options in Japan.
Through these efforts and execution of Burberry’s remaining
core strategies, the team achieved strong ﬁnancial results.
Total revenue grew 7% to £1.3bn. Retail performed well,
increasing revenue 19% on a 7% comparable store sales
gain. Driven by Spain, wholesale declined 11%. Licensing
increased 18% with a decline in Japan offset by growth in
global product licences and favourable exchange rate
movements. Adjusted operating proﬁt reached a record
£220m, on a 25% retail/wholesale increase. The Group
generated £254m of cash, resulting in a £262m year end
cash balance.
With the changed operating environment, management
also conducted a full review of Burberry’s strategic plan
during the year. We continue to see opportunities across
the product portfolio – whether the heritage menswear
business, the young childrenswear division, or quickly
developing shoe category. While emerging markets such
as China offer great excitement, excellent potential remains
in all geographic regions. Penetration of these markets will
be enabled by retail enhancements, new store formats and
wholesale advances. Ongoing efﬁciency improvements are
also expected to contribute to proﬁt growth.
In renewing our plan to be a great brand, we also updated
our aspirations to be a great company. Internally, we
continue work to establish Burberry as the leading
employer in the luxury sector. During the year, we formed
the Leadership Council, a forum to develop the next
generation of Burberry’s leadership. We also reinforced
mechanisms to enhance communication and celebrate our
successes as a team. Externally, the Burberry Foundation
continued its work to empower the creativity of young
people, while our commitments to ethical trading and
preserving the environment continued to progress.
Looking forward, Burberry is well prepared to achieve its
goals in the years ahead. With a strong balance of analytics
and intuition, senior management has added expertise and
grown as an integrated team during the past three years.
Our teams globally are fully united under our brand. And 
we thank the extended team – suppliers, large customers,
licensing and franchise partners – for their continued
support. Together we look forward to reasserting Burberry’s
growth agenda while continuing to invest in the future of 
the brand.
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
11
