 12
Chief executive officer’s letter
At the most fundamental level, management’s primary 
objectives are the continued development of the Burberry 
brand and delivering sustained, profitable growth over  
the long term. These objectives are addressed through  
a precise vision for the Group, a consistent strategy and  
a distinctive set of values. Although the global recession of 
2008-2009 slowed progress in some respects, we did not 
compromise pursuit of either objective. With an improving 
external environment in 2010/11, the team capitalised 
on the expertise and infrastructure developed during 
preceding years and the Group’s strong financial position 
to accelerate investment in the brand and reassert the 
strategic growth agenda.
Brand Investment
We have long held that great brands project a pure, 
consistent experience across all channels in order to 
standout in today’s cluttered consumer arena. Sharp 
definition communicates the point of difference and 
informs consumer choice, while also conveying authenticity 
and integrity, which are vitally important to a heritage brand 
such as Burberry. A pure brand image captures mindshare.
Further, globally pervasive digital technology is altering 
consumers’ relationships with brands – both expectations 
of, and ways of interacting with, them. Digital’s capabilities 
of movement, sound, information capacity and  
self-navigation allow for an all-encompassing emotive 
brand experience, which can be achieved anywhere – 
not confined to a brand’s physical environment, such 
as a retail store. The technology has raised consumers’ 
expectations for a voice in, and greater access to, the 
brand. Consumers also increasingly expect transparency 
and clarity with respect to the company behind the brand.
•	 Burberry World launch. In line with these principles, 
the Group launched Burberry World – a website 
providing the complete expression of the Burberry 
brand, as well as full e-commerce capability – in the 
final quarter of 2010/11. Burberry World offers access 
to the brand’s defining features, including heritage 
and archival imagery, behind-the-scenes footage of 
key events, such as runway shows and photo shoots, 
philanthropic activity and comprehensive product views 
and information – the site contains the most complete 
product assortment available for purchase anywhere. 
Burberry World also connects the broader Burberry 
community through Burberry Acoustic – a site featuring 
music and videos from emerging British artists – and  13
artofthetrench.com, our social media site allowing 
members to explore and share experiences of the iconic 
trench coat. Beyond simply delivering an on-brand 
interface online, our goal is to provide the perfect, 
complete Burberry experience. We are also reorienting 
other consumer-related activity, including retail stores, 
for multi-channel connectivity – however a consumer 
engages with the brand, the experience should be 
consistent. In terms of its direct commerce implications, 
we expect Burberry World to drive sales across all 
channels – digital (currently transactional in 45 countries 
and six languages), retail, wholesale and licences – 
through long-term consumer engagement and direct 
merchandise access and information. Achieved through 
substantial investment, this global platform is the focal 
point for the brand.
•	 Correcting legacy issues. Although great progress 
has been made in revitalising the Burberry brand over 
the last decade, inconsistencies with the modern 
democratic luxury positioning remain. During the year, 
the Group intensified investment in correcting these 
legacy brand issues. In retail, while the outlet store 
format is primarily an inventory management tool, parts 
of the portfolio are not appropriately aligned with the 
brand; as a result, several outlet stores were closed 
in the year, as others were upgraded, renovated and 
expanded. In the wholesale channel, management 
is concentrating distribution in fewer doors, those 
consistent with the brand’s status, and improving  
in-store presentation through several initiatives, 
including an emphasis on dedicated real estate. In the 
licensing arena, the year saw the impact of the Japan 
leather goods licence termination, as part of the multi-
year process to align that market with the global brand. 
Finally, with the Spring/Summer 2011 season, Burberry 
largely completed the local-to-global product transition 
in Spain. Each of these activities was undertaken 
at a significant cost to earnings, which will only be 
recaptured over time through greater brand vitality. The 
Group will continue to take similar action to purify brand 
presence in the seasons ahead.
Reasserting the Growth Agenda
Confident in the long-term potential of the Burberry brand 
and our design, marketing and retail-led business, we 
reasserted the strategic growth agenda as the world 
began to emerge from recession.
•	 China acquisition. In September, Burberry acquired  
its store network in China from a longstanding franchise 
partner for approximately £65m. China is the most 
exciting luxury market in the world today, whether 
defined by current size, growth rate or long-term 
potential. Already estimated to be the fourth largest 
luxury customer group globally, the Chinese consumer 
is projected to be the most important sector growth 
driver both domestically and internationally over at 
least the next few years. In addition to the transaction, 
under which the Group acquired 50 stores, the local 
team opened an additional net seven stores during 
the year. Since acquisition, the stores have achieved 
approximately 30% sales gains on a year-over-year 
basis. Burberry is well positioned in this market,  
and the acquisition is a key growth platform for the 
brand’s future.
•	 Retail expansion. Retail investment accelerated with a 
62% increase in store-related capital expenditure during 
the year. Average space expanded 9%, excluding the 
China acquisition, led by 28 mainline store additions, 
many of which were clustered in high potential markets. 
Investments included flagship stores in new markets, 
including Beijing and Sydney – the first flagships in 
China and Australia – as well as established markets 
such as London, Milan and Paris. Store renovation 
activity also intensified to ensure the entire portfolio 
keeps pace with the brand’s aspirations and digital 
presentation standards; major projects included  
Las Vegas and Boston.
•	 Marketing in the digital dimension. Marketing efforts 
enlarging the brand’s digital dimension also intensified 
in 2010/11. With digital content becoming a primary 
vehicle to communicate brand identity and engage 
consumers, we continued to invest in content, both in 
terms of creation capability and volume. An expanded 
team of digital experts develops rich bodies of 
consumer-oriented content around any brand activity – 
the traditional still images of Burberry’s main advertising 
campaigns are now accompanied by sets of video  14
Chief executive officer’s letter continued
stories, while simple product shots have become video 
clips. A local fashion show or store opening becomes  
a global event through live-streamed production.  
Digital innovations, such as virtual trunk shows, 
which allow runway show viewers to select items for 
immediate purchase, further immerse consumers in 
the brand. To extend consumer reach, Burberry works 
with leading digital media companies to distribute this 
exciting content across their platforms. The Group  
has also increased digital marketing investment through 
greater use of email and online advertising. During  
the year, the brand deepened engagement with its 
social media communities – including the proprietary 
artofthetrench.com – through the addition of dedicated 
content and more frequent interaction. With almost five 
million fans (at 31 March), Burberry is the leading luxury 
brand on Facebook. Burberry has achieved a leadership 
position within the luxury sector in the digital marketing 
arena, and will continue to invest substantially in these 
activities. Referencing these and related initiatives,  
Fast Company magazine named Burberry to its 2011 
list of the world’s 50 most innovative companies.
•	 Product intensification. In the product arena, 
Burberry directed investment to both core and young 
categories. To drive innovation in the core women’s and 
men’s outerwear and large leather goods categories, 
the design and merchandising teams explored a 
wider range of exotic and luxury materials, pursued 
technical innovation and broadened the highest fashion 
components of the lines. The teams also reoriented 
development processes around creating distinct 
monthly product capsules to ensure a continuous flow 
of new and compelling merchandise to stores. The 
Group continued to invest in replenishment capability 
with the goal of constant availability of continuity core 
product at retail. Looking at young businesses, the 
childrenswear operations, previously located in Spain, 
were integrated with the London-based product 
divisions, with additional resource commitment in 
design and merchandising. The underdeveloped 
women’s shoe category benefitted from similar resource 
intensification, as well as assortment expansion and 
greater space allocation within our store network,  
where sales growth accelerated in the year.
•	 New market investment. Investment in new markets 
also accelerated. Burberry launched its Latin America 
strategy with a dedicated regional management team 
and headquarters located in São Paulo, Brazil. The 
team opened stores in Brasilia, São Paulo and Puebla, 
Mexico during the year. Looking east, the Group further 
developed its joint operation to capitalise on the rapidly 
growing consumer economy in India. Burberry now 
has five stores in this exciting market. Although in the 
near term these operations incur significant start-up 
expenses, we expect them to contribute meaningfully 
to future profit growth. In addition, through franchise 
partners, the Group entered four new markets in 
2010/11, including Egypt and Mongolia.
•	 Infrastructure investment. Reasserting the growth 
agenda required continued evolution and investment in 
infrastructure – finance, information technology, human 
resources, legal. Across the agenda – from disciplined 
management of replenishment inventory to producing 
digital events to meeting the structural requirements 
of new markets – these resources enabled and 
contributed to growth in the year.
Culture and values
Alongside brand and growth, we continued to invest in our 
culture. As a team, we look to reinforce a company culture 
characterised by
•	 Shared vision for the future of brand and business
•	 Democratic and meritocratic ethos
•	 Connected, collaborative style of interaction
•	 Focus on the Burberry brand as the touchstone against 
which all activity is measured
These principles relate directly to the brand’s core values: 
to protect, explore and inspire. Investing (both mental 
and financial resources) in this culture encompasses a 
broad range of initiatives, from communication activities to 
compensation structures and other employee benefits to 
encouraging performance standards – which also extend 
beyond the organisation to our partners. These uniting 
cultural forces, along with our passion, emotion and 
conviction, are as important to Burberry’s success as the 
five strategic themes. Though a commercial enabler, this 
culture equally defines the type of community we believe 
in, and the type of company we want to be. 15
Record financial results
In addition to investing for the future, the team continued 
to execute, achieving record revenue and profit in the year. 
Revenue increased 27% to £1,501m. An 11% comparable 
store sales gain combined with 9% space expansion and 
a 12% contribution from China to produce 36% retail 
revenue growth (22% excluding the China acquisition) to 
£962m. Wholesale revenue increased 17% (26% ex-China) 
to £441m. Licensing revenue was marginally ahead with 
the effect of terminated Japan and apparel licences offset 
by strength across global licences and currency gains. 
Under the single brand, the Group is a well balanced 
portfolio of businesses – balanced diversity within each 
of product, channel and region. With the exception of 
the Japan licences, all parts of this portfolio performed 
well in the year. Adjusted operating profit increased 37% 
to £301m with adjusted retail/wholesale operating profit 
growing 59% on a 29% revenue gain – achieving an 
historical high 15.6% adjusted retail/wholesale operating 
margin. Notwithstanding the substantial investment,  
the Group ended the year with net cash of £298m.
Looking ahead
In summary, it’s been an historic year for the Group,  
the result of a united effort of employees, suppliers, 
customers and licensing and franchise partners. We thank 
this extended team for their commitment and partnership. 
Turning to 2011/12, although the external environment 
may be less certain, we look forward with optimism. 
The brand is well positioned, the strategies are effective, 
the team is united and the consumer engaged. We will 
continue to invest to realise the potential of this great 
brand and business.
Angela Ahrendts, Chief Executive Officer
48.9P in 2010/11 +39% 
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS
is a key valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders
11
09
10
10*
07
08
 48.9
30.2
35.1
35.1
29.1
31.6
+39%
-4%
+16%
+21%
+9%
2007-2009 and 2010* include the result of the discontinued Spanish operations. 
2010 has been represented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.  
