 8
CHAIRMAN’S LETTER
growth on this scale would not have been possible. In 
financial terms, disciplined execution of these strategies 
over the five year period has resulted in Burberry’s 102% 
revenue growth and 82% increase in operating profit, with 
core retail/wholesale operating profit increasing 128% on a 
112% revenue gain. This notwithstanding a financial crisis 
in mid-course.
The five year financial profile is capped by the record 
2010/11 performance. Total revenue grew 27% to 
£1,501m, a 24% gain at constant exchange rates. 
Operating profit increased 37% to £301.1m, achieving an 
historical high 15.6% retail/wholesale operating margin. 
Diluted EPS reached 48.9p, a 39% gain. After-tax return 
on capital, at 35%, remained strong. All of these figures are 
on an adjusted basis, and exclude the impact of the now 
discontinued legacy business in Spain. The Group ended 
the year with a £298m net cash balance. The Board has 
recommended a 43% increase in the full year dividend  
to 20.0p.
Looking ahead. While on a secular basis, underlying trends 
contributing to luxury growth – wealth creation, rise of 
growth market consumers, continuing consumer interest – 
appear favourable, the global macro environment suggests 
some reserve. 
Although Burberry was among the leading performers 
in the sector during 2010/11, a strong rebound in luxury 
spending on the heels of recession lifted most participants. 
Despite some healthy headline forecasts, the current 
climate includes distinct uncertainties – record fiscal 
deficits in advanced economies, rising inflation in high 
growth economies and record commodity prices for 
all. Political tensions in sensitive areas of the world also 
present potential challenges. In short, the macro backdrop 
may not be as favourable in 2011/12.
Near-term factors aside, the Board’s optimism for 
Burberry’s future remains in full. The Group possesses a 
clear and well executed strategy, world-class management 
and design teams and a strong financial profile, further 
enabled by a powerful culture capable of executing under 
a range of market conditions. And the brand operates in 
attractive markets with specific opportunities across the 
spectrum. Burberry’s results for the year and across this 
volatile five year period clearly demonstrate these qualities. 
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank the team 
around the world for their contributions to these excellent 
results, and look forward to Burberry’s further progress.
John Peace, Chairman
An historic year for Burberry – record revenue, margin and 
profit. These results reflect not only the most recent year’s 
effort, but five years of endeavour by this team.
The five key strategies, outlined further in this report, have 
been executed with lasting effect on the business and 
business model. In terms of status, the Burberry brand  
has clearly solidified its unique democratic positioning 
within the luxury arena. Retail, the channel which 
maximises the brand’s ability to manage consumer 
perception, has become the primary route of distribution, 
moving from 43% of total revenue in 2005/06 to 64% in 
2010/11 (greater adjusting for full China integration) –  
while licensing activities have been largely confined to 
three global categories and Japan, with the foundation set 
for future integration of the brand’s business in that market. 
Burberry has also gained share across geographies, in 
both developed markets such as the US and high growth 
economies like the Middle East. Work in Asia, most 
recently the acquisition of the brand’s store network in 
China, has positioned Burberry well in this high growth 
luxury region. In line with the strategy, attractive non-
apparel categories have been intensified, accounting for 
40% of retail/wholesale revenue in 2010/11 relative to 29% 
in 2005/06. Lastly, through a range of initiatives, including 
development of an integrated supply chain and SAP 
implementation throughout the majority of the business, 
operational capability has been upgraded substantially. 
Without this investment in infrastructure and expertise,  9  
