 12 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011/12
chief executive officer’s letter
Completing a record year in 2010/11, Burberry entered 
2011/12 with excellent momentum – and a less certain 
external outlook. Following a strong rebound for luxury 
in 2010, the sector’s prospects were less predictable 
amid the macro uncertainty. In this context, management 
planned to drive near-term results by concentrating  
on core strategies, while committing signiﬁcant 
investment to beneﬁt the years ahead, ever watchful  
of a changing environment. In the ﬁnal analysis,  
the luxury consumer broadly remained healthy and the 
team successfully navigated the uncertainties realised 
– Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, natural disaster  
in Japan and sluggish US recovery – to advance its 
long-term objectives: great brand, great growth,  
great company. 
Great brand
Great brands stand for clearly deﬁned attributes which  
are projected to provide a pure, uniform experience across  
all consumer touch points. Our strategies are aimed at 
reinforcing the Burberry brand’s digital luxury positioning, 
ensuring consistency of experience and enriching the depth 
and accessibility of that experience in keeping with evolving 
consumer expectations.
 Correcting legacy issues 
We continued to correct legacy practices inconsistent  
with target positioning. In the wholesale channel, Burberry 
exited doors not aligned with brand status and invested  
in presentation through both enhanced assortments and 
dedicated, customised real estate in key doors. Although 
the outlet store format is primarily an inventory management 
tool, our objective is fewer stores located in the top outlet 
centres in each market. Accordingly, selected outlet stores 
were closed or relocated in the year.
 Transitioning Japan 
We continued efforts to integrate Japan with the modern 
British brand. As part of upgrading today’s premium 
positioning, an additional seven licensed categories were 
exited or downsized during the year, while we continued  
to invest in our early stage retail operation. Reﬁning 
merchandising and marketing strategies to convert this 
legacy market, the team achieved solid sales gains in  
the year in this initial phase of building the brand’s future 
platform in Japan.
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
A Great Step Forward Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011/12 13
 Launching Burberry Body 
Fragrance is the most widely encountered product  
in the Burberry portfolio. With the creation of Burberry 
Body, the brand added its most elevated proposition  
in this category. Launched simultaneously across digital 
and traditional platforms, the global media campaign, 
featuring the iconic trench coat within a new sensual 
context, communicated the brand’s modern luxury 
positioning to a wide consumer audience.
 Presenting Burberry Bespoke 
Burberry Bespoke also debuted during the year.  
This interactive online experience allows consumers  
to explore the full possibilities of Burberry’s iconic trench 
coat – silhouettes, fabrics, colours, hardware – and design 
a completely personalised edition made at our facility  
in England for delivery within eight weeks. Offering  
over 12 million combinations and the most luxurious of 
features, Bespoke is the highest expression of the brand.
 Integrating the physical and digital 
Burberry’s stores and digital platforms both offer distinct 
consumer advantages. Stores, for example, provide the 
immediacy of physical product, while Burberry World,  
the brand’s digital headquarters, can conjure a product’s 
image from the runway or place it within a customer’s 
purchase history. As part of a seamless brand experience, 
we are working to integrate the beneﬁts of both arenas – 
brand essence to product knowledge to selection to 
service – through a range of activities, including digital 
trunk shows, synchronised product presence, 360 degree 
video view, 24/7 click-to-chat in 14 languages and use of 
iPads in store, blurring the lines between the physical and 
digital. During the year we incorporated our most up to 
date thinking in the London Regent Street store project. 
Scheduled to open in summer 2012, this is Burberry’s 
store of the future. This is Burberry World Live.
Great growth
In serving as stewards of this 156 year old heritage brand, 
management deﬁnes great growth in both qualitative and 
quantitative dimensions. The goal is sustained, proﬁtable 
growth over the long-term fully consistent with the brand 
vision, values and positioning.
 Driving productivity 
During the year, management focused on several 
operational initiatives to drive store productivity –  
among the most potent levers of proﬁtable growth. 
Consistent execution ensured new product ﬂowed  
to reset selling ﬂoors across all mediums monthly  
to continuously engage consumers. Investment in 
replenishment inventory improved availability of core 
product. Continued commitment to sales training and  
the addition of new modules tailored to high growth 
markets enhanced consumer responsiveness globally.  
For the year, comparable store sales increased 14%  
on top of an 11% gain in 2010/11.
 Accelerating retail investment 
The Group accelerated retail expansion with the opening 
of 48 mainline stores and concessions. By strengthening 
the brand’s position in ﬂagship cities around the world,  
we see opportunity to increase sales and mindshare in 
these high potential markets which offer a concentration  
of both sophisticated local and travelling luxury consumers. 
Retail capital investment increased 60% in the year with 
approximately half concentrated in these markets. Larger 
format stores opened in Hong Kong, Paris and Sydney. 
Store renovation activity also accelerated, with emphasis  
on ﬂagship markets.
 Engaging China 
Mainland China is among the world’s largest and fastest 
growing luxury markets today. As the economic trends 
and cultural dynamics indicate that its importance will 
continue to grow, Burberry is investing in China for  
the long-term. Ten mainline and concession stores  
were opened, for a total of 63 stores at year end. At the 
country level, we are adding senior management and 
talent. Marketing efforts intensiﬁed with the brand staging 
one of its most prominent events of the year in Beijing  
in April 2011 and the customisation of content to  
gain a leading position in the local social media arena.  
In stores, we continue to reﬁne formats, assortments  
and develop a targeted service proposition. 14 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011/12
chief executive officer’s letter Continued
 Investing in growth markets 
Burberry is also investing in the smaller markets of the 
future. From regional headquarters in Brazil, the Group 
opened two stores in Central and Latin America, in São 
Paulo and Guadalajara. In India, two stores were opened 
and the Middle East region also added seven stores  
in the year.
 Intensifying product 
Outstanding product is the soul of the brand and  
the object of passionate attention – whether to set  
a new luxury standard in our core outerwear category  
with the creation of Bespoke or to elevate the brand’s 
position in fragrance with Burberry Body. In addition  
to these, menswear received intensive focus during the 
year. At origin Burberry is a male brand, and with rising 
prominence of the male luxury consumer, particularly  
in growth markets, the brand sees further opportunity  
to capitalise on this heritage. During the year, the menswear 
division intensiﬁed efforts in tailoring through new product 
development, sourcing arrangements, marketing activities 
and in-store merchandising and service. The tailoring 
initiative was piloted in selected stores with expansion 
planned for 2012/13. Men’s non-apparel categories are 
among the fastest growing in luxury. Accordingly, the team 
invested signiﬁcantly to elevate and expand assortments  
in this area. In the year, men’s non-apparel was Burberry’s 
fastest growing business.
 Building customer centricity 
In an increasingly digital world, businesses have ever 
greater opportunity to understand their target customer. 
During the year, we accelerated investment in this area  
with the addition of dedicated expertise and technology 
solutions. These are early steps on a multi-year path  
to gaining greater customer insight from which to  
develop the foresight that informs our decision and  
service processes. 
 Leveraging information investment 
While substantial investment in core information systems 
has improved Burberry’s fundamental operating capability 
and enabled rapid growth in recent years, we continue  
to reﬁne and expand use of these tools. In 2011/12,  
this core was further leveraged across the supply chain  
to enhance procurement processes and more precisely 
time the ﬂow of product capsules to stores. In the 
merchandising sphere, intelligence gained from consistent 
global data and reporting sharpened both pre-season 
buying and assortment decisions and in-season 
responsiveness.
Growth in adjusted diluted EPS (Year to 31 March)
is a key valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders
61.6p 2011/12 +26%
+26%
+39%
 
-4%
+16%
+9%
10
09
08
61.6
48.9
35.1
30.2
31.6
11
12
Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items. Reported diluted EPS 59.3p 
(2011: 46.9p). 2008 and 2009 include the results of discontinued Spanish operations. Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011/12 15
Great company
A truly great company is great beyond its customers.  
For employees, it is an inspiring, rewarding place to  
work. While society broadly beneﬁts from the commercial 
contribution of a healthy business, a great company  
more actively applies its resources in favour of greater  
social value. And, if a company achieves these, it should  
also deliver attractive ﬁnancial returns for shareholders.
 Enabling creative thinking 
Today, innovation is vital to every business – and essential 
to luxury. At Burberry, we organise ourselves to maximise 
cross-functional, collaborative interaction – reporting 
relationships that integrate traditionally segregated silos 
(Marketing and IT), governing bodies that pair seasoned 
executives with the next generation of talent (a council  
to dream), and a willingness to deconstruct and evolve  
our structure as needs arise and the business grows  
(a new mobile commerce department). The unconventional 
interaction within this network drives the rich innovation  
– the Tweetwalk (a pioneering fashion show on Twitter), 
Bespoke, the addition of weather to a runway show  
– that fuels our business. 
 Building the social enterprise 
Connecting through constant communication is a key 
aspect of this culture. During the year, we undertook 
development of a sophisticated communications  
platform built around social media architecture to  
more closely connect our nearly 9,500 employees. 
Incorporating interactive tools to enhance access  
to people and information globally, this will be the  
focal point of communication and knowledge internally  
– and extend to external partners next year. 
 Investing in Britain 
As home of the brand, Britain is a special place for 
Burberry. We continue to build the team at our global 
headquarters in London, committing to a second building  
in Westminster during the year. The Group further invested  
in its trench coat manufacturing facility in Yorkshire  
in our effort to build a world-class operation. As part  
of this, we are also funding a training academy and 
apprentice programme to develop skills in the next 
Burberry generation.
 Enhancing social value 
Supporting the Burberry Foundation – dedicated to 
helping young people realise their dreams through the 
power of creativity – is also an integral part of our culture. 
During the year, the Foundation, which receives the  
large majority of the Group’s annual contribution of 1%  
of pre-tax proﬁts – composed of both cash and products,  
such as British-made trench coats and other outerwear, 
small leather goods, handbags, totes and mufﬂers – to 
philanthropic causes, continued to support organisations 
in key communities in which Burberry operates, and 
facilitated Burberry’s ﬁrst global staff volunteering day.  
The Foundation’s success has further raised our aspirations. 
We recognise that constrained governments increasingly 
need businesses with their expertise and other resources 
to play a larger role in society. So we ask ourselves, given 
a brand, talent and culture able to engage the interests  
of consumers around the world, what else can we do? 
What is Burberry’s larger role? This is work for the future.
Great ﬁnancial results
These activities have positioned Burberry well for the years 
ahead, while delivering record ﬁnancial results in the present. 
Revenue increased 23% underlying to £1,857m. A 14% 
comparable store sales gain combined with 11% space 
expansion and a 6% contribution from the China acquisition  
to produce 31% underlying retail revenue growth to £1,270m. 
Wholesale revenue increased 8% underlying (14% excluding 
the China transition) to £478m. Licensing revenue increased 
5% underlying driven by strong performances in fragrance, 
timepieces and eyewear. The business achieved double-digit 
gains across all product divisions and regions. Adjusted 
operating proﬁt increased 25% to £377m with retail/
wholesale operating proﬁt growing 31% on a 25% revenue 
gain – achieving an historical high 16.4% retail/wholesale 
operating margin. Capital investment totalled £153m  
and the Group ended the year with £338m of cash.
A great year
In concluding a great year, I once again thank the global 
Burberry community. This starts with the internal Burberry 
team, and extends equally to our external relationships – 
suppliers, customers and licensing and franchise partners. 
Burberry’s excellent performance springs from the work  
of this amazing community with all its expertise, passion, 
dedication and loyalty. It’s exciting and an honour to work 
alongside all of you on this mission – the opportunity has 
never been clearer. With a solid, balanced foundation in 
place, we can continue to create a great brand with great 
growth, resulting in a truly great company relevant for another 
150 years. I look forward to Burberry’s exciting years ahead.
