 8 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011/12
chairman’s letter
Sir John Peace
Chairman
At this time last year, I reported an historic year for 
Burberry in 2010/11, while expressing some caution  
for the year ahead. For 2011/12, I am pleased to report 
that the team successfully executed an ambitious plan 
despite an uneven external environment, producing 
another record year.
From a strategic perspective, the team focused on reﬁning 
and executing Burberry’s ﬁve core strategies. The brand 
continues to ascend, backed by some of the most forward 
thinking digital marketing in the consumer sector. Ongoing 
design innovation sustains a compelling product proposition. 
With 14% average space growth, retail expansion remains  
on pace in both existing and new markets. The brand is 
actively building a leading presence in the important new 
growth luxury markets. Efﬁciency improves across operating 
functions. These activities produced excellent progress  
for the year, and continued to build a powerful foundation  
for the future.
With this, the Group achieved record ﬁnancial results  
in 2011/12. T otal revenue grew 24% to £1,857m. Operating 
proﬁt increased 25% to £377m. After-tax return on capital 
remained strong at 37%. All of these ﬁgures are on an 
adjusted basis. The Group ended the year with a £338m  
net cash balance. The board has recommended a 25% 
increase in the full year dividend to 25p.
Looking ahead, 2012/13 may present continued challenge. 
Although the global macroeconomic picture has generally 
improved with distance from the ﬁnancial crisis, this is not 
uniformly true. On an economic basis, 2012/13 is likely to  
be less supportive for luxury. China’s growth is slowing, some 
Eurozone countries will see recession and the US recovery  
is gradual. And political tensions in certain regions present 
concerns. Professional observers of the sector are unusually 
divided on its near-term outlook. Against this immediate 
backdrop, longer-term prospects for luxury’s continued 
growth are favourable – supported by democratisation, 
wealth creation, the rise of growth market consumers.
In planning 2012/13, management and the board considered 
these factors. During the year, the board had invested  
in deepening its knowledge of Burberry’s business through 
broader sector analysis, exposure to additional levels  
of management, and in April 2012, a trip reviewing four  
of the Group’s most important markets in Asia. In the end, 
measuring an external environment potentially suggesting 
short-term investment moderation against the brand’s  
long-term opportunity in luxury – particularly in the context  
of aggressive pursuit of market share by sector peers  
– we concluded the beneﬁts of pursuing Burberry’s  
long-term opportunities in luxury should outweigh any 
immediate issues stemming from a difﬁcult environment.  
This approach is further supported by the brand’s 
momentum, management’s track record and the Group’s 
ﬁnancial resources. Accordingly, the team has committed  
to another determined plan, while remaining vigilant and 
prepared to react to external developments.
Before concluding, a brief look further back. July 2012  
marks the tenth anniversary of Burberry as a listed company. 
From its initial £1.15bn market capitalisation in July 2002, 
Burberry is valued in excess of £6bn at the time of this letter 
(May 2012). During these past ten years, the Group has also 
returned £780m to shareholders through share repurchase 
and dividends. 
On behalf of the Board and shareholders, I thank the team 
around the world for their contributions to these results. 
Burberry possesses the right strategy, right culture and  
right team for continued success.
Excellent results with  
a powerful foundation  
for the future   
