 In 2012/13, the Burberry team navigated a challenging environment making 
excellent strategic progress and achieving another record financial result.
Sir John Peace
Chairman 
Strategically, activity was focused by Burberry’s core 
themes. In product, the team continued to refine the 
offering across categories. Innovative digital marketing 
activity brought a more engaging message to targeted sets 
of consumers. Flagship store openings extended Burberry’s 
presence in key gateway cities. Supported by these 
initiatives, the brand experience continued to be enriched 
and elevated. Burberry’s distinctive culture was further 
nurtured and reinforced, and continued to project externally 
through the work of the Burberry Foundation. These, along 
with the full set of the Group’s strategic initiatives, are 
discussed throughout this report.
This progress was also recognised externally. Interbrand, 
the global brand consultancy, once again named Burberry 
in its list of the world’s 100 most valuable brands. In the 
digital arena, Burberry led media think tank L2’s Fashion 
‘Digital IQ Index’ for the second year. On land, Fast 
Company magazine listed Burberry second in its ranking of 
the world’s most innovative retailers. And, in an indicator of 
cultural strength, professional platform LinkedIn identified 
Burberry as the 29th most in-demand employer globally.
Financial performance was also strong. Total revenue grew 
8% to £2bn, with adjusted operating profit increasing 14% 
to £428m. While overall results are strong, a look at the core 
retail/wholesale business, which excludes the impact of the 
legacy Japan licensed business, is more indicative of the 
modern brand’s progress. Here, retail/wholesale adjusted 
operating profit increased 17% on an 8% revenue gain. 
Adjusted after-tax return on capital was 35%. The Group 
ended the year with a £297m net cash balance, and the 
board has recommended a 16% increase in the full year  
dividend to 29.0p.
In addition to the team’s efforts, these results were also  
a function of investments over the past several years.  
The Group has invested heavily in stores, emerging growth 
markets, technology and new capabilities. While in line with 
Burberry’s growth objectives, it’s worth highlighting that 
some of these are particularly important in a more difficult 
external environment. For example, previous investments  
in information systems and business intelligence expertise 
brought greater visibility and enabled quicker and more 
precise action during the year. Looking forward, although 
the near-term environment presents many uncertainties, 
Burberry plans to continue to invest based upon a 
successful strategy, its distinctive culture and generally 
favourable luxury sector fundamentals. Consistent with  
this, in 2012/13 Burberry committed to one of its largest 
single investments to date with its decision to integrate the 
fragrance and make-up business. Operating as of 1 April 
2013, Beauty offers an exciting growth platform  
for the future.
The year also brought important management changes. 
Stacey Cartwright, Executive Vice President, Chief 
Financial Officer and a director, will stand down in July 2013 
to pursue new interests. Stacey has been an outstanding 
contributor to Burberry during the past nine years, and we 
thank and wish her well in future endeavours. We welcome 
Carol Fairweather as Chief Financial Officer and a director. 
As Carol has been with the Group for six years, most 
recently leading the finance function, this is a natural 
transition. Finally, John Smith, former Chief Executive of 
BBC Worldwide and a non-executive director, joined 
Burberry’s executive team as Chief Operating Officer in 
March. John’s deep experience in digital media is an 
important addition to the Group. In keeping with this 
dynamic, growing business, we expect to continue  
to evolve board composition going forward.
On behalf of the Board, I thank the global team for their 
efforts during a challenging year and congratulate them  
on their achievements. By executing a consistent strategy 
in pursuit of clear objectives – clarity of the luxury brand 
message, sustainable growth and great company –  
the Burberry team has generated substantial value for 
shareholders in this and years past. Similarly, on behalf  
of the Board and team, I thank shareholders for their 
continued support.
7
Chairman’s Letter
strong 
RESULTS
