 From outstanding performance in 2011/12, Burberry began the year cautiously 
optimistic, our long-range objectives – ensuring clarity of the luxury brand message, 
enabling sustainable growth and being a great company – firmly in sight. 
Angela Ahrendts
Chief Executive Officer
This combination of optimism and determination, fuelled  
by the brand’s wealth of opportunity, suggested continued 
pursuit of the investment-oriented strategic agenda in the 
year ahead. At the same time, this pre-disposition was 
tempered by uncertainties in the macro environment and the 
goal to deliver near-term financial performance. In the final 
analysis, the result was a balance of dynamic management, 
core execution and strategic investment.
Challenging context 
Following standout growth in 2011 relative to the range  
of consumer sectors, luxury slowed dramatically in 2012. 
The ongoing economic crisis in the Eurozone and a 
continued sluggish US weighed on all areas of consumer 
spending. Although most of Asia remained relatively 
healthy, the Chinese consumer – which accounts for  
a majority of luxury consumption growth – was subdued  
by a secularly decelerating economy complicated by 
government transition. Industry experts estimate that luxury 
sector growth declined from 13% in 2011 to 5% in 2012. 
Within that, ready-to-wear brands and businesses were 
disproportionately affected. For Burberry, this climate 
manifested itself in a decline in store traffic and greater 
weekly sales volatility.
Dynamic management
Internally, we talk about managing the business dynamically 
and focusing on the things we can control. 2012/13’s 
external environment tested the team on these dimensions. 
Supported by investments in information systems and 
business intelligence expertise during the past few years – 
which enable monitoring, analysis and implementation –  
we set out to do exactly that. 
Heightened conversion
The traffic decline placed greater emphasis on converting 
consumers entering the stores to customers. This effort 
included service initiatives that maximised time on the selling 
floor of our most skilled associates, increased inventory 
availability and improved selling skills and product knowledge. 
In terms of product, we expedited fashion assortments 
targeted at core luxury customers and refined monthly 
floorset execution to enhance the flow of fresh merchandise.
8
Chief Executive Officer’s Letter
striking 
the balance Targeted marketing
Aided by deeper consumer insight, we retargeted marketing 
activities in keeping with changing consumer spending 
patterns. The team increased the brand’s presence in  
high-profile outdoor and travel-oriented locations and 
experimented with new digital venues – some of which  
were contracted on a real-time basis. For festive periods,  
a cross-functional group refined programmes across 
product, visual and advertising to better highlight specific 
gift-giving opportunities.
Tactical efficiency
The Group also acted to enhance near-term efficiency. 
Discretionary expenses were tightly controlled and 
inventory was closely managed at all stages of the  
process in keeping with softer sales.
Core execution
Articulated by the five strategic themes, Burberry’s core 
strategy has been consistently executed over the past 
seven years, and actions to navigate immediate conditions 
did not sway us from this course. 
Blurring the physical and digital
Given a world of increasingly ubiquitous mobile internet 
access, we expect dissolution of the boundaries separating 
physical and digital channels. Consumers will see a single, 
continuous space in which to interact with a brand. Through 
a range of activities, we are working to integrate the benefits 
of the physical and digital spheres. Ultimately, the vision  
is to serve completely any consumer on any platform in  
any geography.
 · In this regard, the opening of the London flagship at  
121 Regent Street in September is our most ambitious 
effort to date. Housed in a period building restored in 
partnership with traditional British craftsmen, the store 
expresses burberry.com in tangible space – complete 
product assortment, RFID technology to trigger targeted  
multimedia content, omnipresent digital screens 
continuously projecting brand imagery. Burberry World 
Live, a store of the future, blending heritage and innovation, 
online with offline.
 · Additional integration initiatives included the expanded 
use of iPads to enhance inventory availability, continued 
upgrading of Retail Theatre throughout the store base  
to ensure synchronised delivery of brand content to 
consumers, and experimentation with new payment 
systems to streamline the purchase experience. 
 
 
Enhancing the product proposition
At the heart of the Burberry brand, product was a key  
area of strategic activity.
 · Elevation of the product offering is an ongoing process. 
In the year, we exited selected opening price points  
in heritage rainwear and leather goods categories.  
Exacting a cost in terms of sales, this is consistent with 
the brand’s positioning within the current luxury context. 
Similarly responding to consumer demand, we continued 
to invest in the upper tiers of our product pyramid, the 
Prorsum and London labels. These labels increased their 
share of retail sales during the year.
 · Although founded as a mens brand, Burberry is 
underpenetrated in mens. During the year, outerwear 
benefited from greater emphasis on innovation and 
design. Tailoring developed with broader assortments 
and expanded distribution. Closer attention to in-store 
timing of seasonal merchandise enhanced relevance of 
the offering. And the first fully dedicated Burberry mens 
store was opened in London in October 2012. Achieving 
a 13% revenue increase, mens was the fastest growing 
product division in the year. With mens integration only 
two years old, Burberry is in the early stages of 
capitalising on this heritage.
 · October saw the launch of The Britain watch for women 
and men. The Britain, featuring an advanced Swiss-made 
mechanical movement and more sophisticated design,  
is an important step in realigning Burberry’s watch 
business with the brand’s luxury positioning.
Engaging the Chinese consumer globally
Given their importance, efforts to better understand  
and serve Chinese consumers are an ongoing priority. 
During the year, Burberry conducted proprietary research, 
leveraging the results across functions: to extend product 
sizing and fit, to train sales associates in high-travel markets, 
to formulate occasion-specific marketing campaigns – 
citing a few examples. In the year, Greater China represented 
Burberry’s fastest growing major market and this consumer 
was prominent throughout the retail network.
9
Chief Executive Officer’s Letter Developing growth markets
Outside Asia, the Group continued to develop other  
growth markets. In the directly operated markets of India, 
Latin America and the Middle East, the Group opened  
net six mainline stores during the year. While some offer 
below average profitability today, we believe these markets 
represent important components of future growth.  
In regions operated through franchise partners, including 
Turkey, Russia and Eastern Europe, eight stores were 
opened with expansion to five new markets, including 
Georgia and Jordan. New franchise agreements were 
signed for Colombia and Chile.
Expanding the retail presence
In addition to London, the year included flagship store 
openings in Chicago, Hong Kong and Milan. While 
contributing to sales, these brand statements in gateway 
cities present the complete Burberry to diverse groups  
of relevant consumers, many of them new to the brand.  
In total, the Group opened net 14 mainline stores,  
six concessions and five outlets during the year, and 
completed seven major renovations. Average selling  
space increased 13%.
Refining the wholesale presence
Efforts to align the quality of the brand’s wholesale presence 
with that of retail are ongoing. In both the Americas and 
Europe, we continued to concentrate on luxury-oriented 
department and specialty stores – with emphasis on 
dedicated real estate – while exiting legacy doors 
inconsistent with the brand’s positioning. This activity, in 
combination with the channel’s exposure to soft geographies, 
resulted in 1% underlying wholesale revenue growth for  
the year. 
As part of the brand proposition, Burberry looks to be  
a leader in consumers’ digital interaction with brands,  
in both innovation and capability. In marketing, the S/S13 
campaign generated record awareness through social 
media. Total Burberry YouTube video views reached over 
ten million during the year. RFID-enabled personalised 
content was introduced with the A/W13 runway show. 
Experimenting with emerging digital platforms, Burberry 
streamed live images of London weather to prominent 
outdoor sites in London, Paris, Hong Kong, Los Angeles 
and New York during the Olympic period. In commerce, 
burberry.com added Spanish and Korean languages  
and tested new fulfilment options.
Strategic investment
While executing currently, the team invested in strategic 
initiatives with longer-term horizons.
Integrating Beauty
Among the most exciting strategic investments in recent 
years, the transition of Burberry’s fragrance and make-up 
business from a licensed to a directly operated business 
began in the year.
 · Offering luxury’s opening price point and broadest 
distribution, fragrance is the most widely encountered 
expression of the Burberry brand. The category also 
accounts for a large percentage of global brand media 
spend. As a result, direct operation will assist in 
optimising brand presence in every market, further 
enable Burberry to capitalise on the synergistic 
relationship with fashion, and better align the product 
offering with brand architecture. Integration elevates  
this business to true core activity, allowing Burberry  
to capture the full opportunity.
 · In terms of opportunity, despite Burberry’s position 
among the largest luxury apparel and accessories brands 
globally, it is undersized in fragrance. Growth has been 
slow, with fragrance significantly underperforming the 
rest of the Group over the past five years. In make-up, 
the brand has only just started.
 · From the decision to integrate in October, the team 
moved quickly across functions, leveraging existing skills 
and resources while adding external category-specific 
talent and capability. As of 1 April, Beauty had been 
successfully integrated and commenced operating. 
Burberry’s fifth product division, Beauty is a growth 
platform of the future.
Evolving customer dialogue
In a landscape of Big Data and continuous communication, 
we believe information-intensive, deep customer relationships 
which allow an individualised customer dialogue will be 
critical to future success in luxury. As part of this, the Group 
began developing new tools to provide an integrated  
view of a customer’s interaction with the brand across  
all Burberry platforms, with initial piloting of a clienteling 
application commencing at year end. Development work  
to enhance consumers’ ability to engage the brand through 
mobile devices also progressed in the year.
10
Chief Executive Officer’s Letter Transitioning the Japan legacy
In Japan, transition from the legacy licensed business  
to global integration continued. As part of this, Burberry’s 
early stage retail operation achieved strong growth at 
existing stores and concessions, opened a concession, 
added a third store and planned additional openings in 
2013/14; while the effect of licence terminations continued 
to reduce legacy royalty income.
Reinforcing the supply chain
To accommodate future growth objectives, the Group 
reinforced the supply chain. In logistics, Burberry added 
distribution capacity, upgraded existing facilities and 
increased network efficiency. In sourcing, additional 
resources were committed to further develop in-house 
outerwear manufacturing capability and improve raw 
material management.
Strong financial results
This balance of activity delivered record financial results  
in 2012/13 while positioning Burberry well for years ahead. 
Total revenue increased 8% underlying to £2bn. Retail 
revenue grew 12% driven by new space and a 5% 
comparable store gain. Soft European markets particularly 
weighed on wholesale, resulting in a 1% underlying revenue 
increase. The 1% underlying decline in licensing revenue 
was a product of double-digit growth among global licences 
more than offset by declining legacy Japan royalties. 
Adjusted operating profit increased 14% to £428m, with the 
core retail/wholesale segment increasing 17% on 8% 
revenue growth – retail/wholesale operating margin also 
reached a record 17.8%. Capital expenditure totalled £176m 
and the Group ended the year with £297m in net cash. 
Powerful culture
Burberry’s culture is a key ingredient to this success. 
Rooted in the brand’s core values and fuelled by a  
creative-thinking, entrepreneurial spirit, our connected, 
united culture creates an energy that enables innovation, 
coordination and agility. These characteristics are evident 
in the year’s accomplishments. This distinctive culture  
is also expressed externally through ethical trade and 
sustainability efforts, employee engagement with local 
communities and the Burberry Foundation, which contributes 
both human and capital resources to encourage youth  
to realise their dreams through the power of creativity.  
We continued to invest in this powerful culture throughout 
the organisation – communication initiatives, operating 
structures, reward programmes and celebrations.  
The bigger the business becomes, the more connected  
we will need to be. 
A great community
Through the efforts of this great team we largely realised 
our objectives. So I thank them, as well as Burberry’s 
extended community of franchise and licensing partners, 
customers and suppliers, for their passion, commitment 
and hard work during the year. Looking forward, this team 
provides confidence for markets favourable or not. 
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS (Year to 31 March) 
is a key valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders.
70.0p +14%
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
70.0 +14%
61.6 +26%
48.9 +39%
35.1 +16%
30.2 -4%
Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items.
Reported diluted EPS 57.0p (2012: 59.3p).
11
Chief Executive Officer’s Letter
