 The management team at Burberry measures its performance relative to a consistent set 
of objectives – ensuring clarity and consistency of Burberry’s luxury brand positioning, 
producing sustainable sector-leading growth, and being a great company.
Sir John Peace
Chairman 
 ·
The establishment of Beauty as Burberry’s fifth product 
division, which recorded some early successes including 
the launch of two new fragrances, the opening of the 
first Burberry Beauty Box pilot store in London and the 
integration of Beauty and fashion across product, events 
and marketing. While the new product division has made 
a modest financial contribution in 2013/14, reflecting 
the complexities and challenges of this transition year, 
we expect our investment in this category to be a key 
component of future growth.
 ·
The further integration of physical and digital platforms 
to enhance the brand experience across all touchpoints, 
from investments that leverage data and insight in 
the creation of increasingly personalised customer 
experiences, to more integrated, emotive storytelling 
across our online and offline worlds.
 ·
A sustained focus on reclaiming Burberry’s menswear 
heritage, including the return of the men’s runway show 
to London and investments in design and merchandising. 
With about 20% sales increase in mainline stores during 
the year, the growth of menswear presents exciting future 
potential as we look to further build this underdeveloped 
dimension of the brand.
 ·
Continued investment in flagship markets, strengthening 
the brand’s position in the 25 cities that account for the 
majority of its retail sales. Of the 25 store openings in 
the year, about half were in these markets, while specific 
product, merchandising and service initiatives were 
further honed and developed to address the travelling 
luxury customers flowing through these urban centres, 
with particular attention to the Chinese consumer.
 ·
The engagement of all business functions in laying 
foundations to transform the brand in Japan, the second 
largest luxury market in the world. With licences expiring 
in 2015, the year saw the development of plans to ensure 
a smooth exit of local product from the market and 
preparations to forcefully assert Burberry’s global luxury 
positioning in the months and years ahead. 
This activity contributed to a strong annual financial 
performance for 2013/14 while positioning Burberry 
well for the future. Total revenue increased 17% to 
£2,330 million, with adjusted before tax profit up 8% 
Within that context, we can report a strong year for 
Burberry in 2013/14. While representing this year’s efforts, 
the results also reflect the disciplined pursuit and execution 
of a uniform strategy over the past several years – 
a strategy designed to produce near-term results 
and reinforce the foundation for future success.
Burberry operates today in a period of unprecedented 
change for the consumer sphere, which includes the luxury 
sector: from the evolving dynamics between the physical 
and digital worlds; to the emergence of a new class of 
younger luxury consumer in developing markets; and the 
increasing role that travel plays in luxury consumption – 
a trend further intensified by dramatic increases in 
outbound travel from China. Alongside these dynamics, 
overall growth of the luxury sector has moderated over the 
last two years, following its post-financial crisis acceleration. 
Burberry’s strategy has proven effective in both concept 
and execution in responding to this evolving environment. 
This Report sets out the significant progress delivered 
across all five of the brand’s strategic themes during the 
year, with highlights including the following.
8
Strategic Report – Introduction
Chairman’s 
Letter to £461 million. The retail/wholesale business achieved 
a 17% increase in adjusted operating profit on a 19% 
revenue gain to £2,251 million, driven by the 15% revenue 
growth and 12% comparable store sales increase in retail. 
Excluding Beauty, wholesale sales grew 2%, with gains 
in the Americas and Asia partially offset by continued 
softness in Europe. Beauty, in its first year of operation, 
contributed wholesale revenue of £144 million, while 
licensing revenue, excluding Beauty, increased 2% 
underlying, reflecting growth in global categories against 
a slight decline in legacy licences. Capital investment 
totalled £154 million and the Group ended the year 
with a £403 million net cash position. The Board has 
recommended a 10% increase in the full year dividend 
to 32.00p, and will aim to move progressively from a 
40% payout ratio to 50% over three years reflecting 
our ongoing focus on shareholder returns.
In addition to the strategic and financial performance 
outlined above, 2013/14 also marked a significant leadership 
transition at Burberry. In October, Angela Ahrendts 
informed the Board that she had decided to step down 
as Chief Executive Officer and the Board unanimously 
agreed that Christopher Bailey would be her successor 
in the newly-created position of Chief Creative and Chief 
Executive Officer, a role he assumed on 1 May 2014. 
Angela moves on after eight remarkable years with 
Burberry, having built a great culture and management 
team, and leading the Company through an incredible 
transformation. We are all hugely grateful for her efforts 
and accomplishments and wish her well in her 
future endeavours.
While this is a significant change, the CEO transition to 
Christopher is a natural progression. Christopher has been 
at Burberry since 2001 and as Chief Creative Officer has 
overseen all consumer-facing activities including product 
design, creative marketing, store design, consumer 
technology and digital innovation. I have no doubt that 
Christopher’s vision and leadership, supported by an 
outstanding management team, will keep Burberry on 
the forefront creatively, digitally and financially, creating 
further value for shareholders in the next exciting stage 
of its evolution. 
The Board is also evolving, as it builds further relevant 
skills and competencies for the future. Good progress has 
been made on the Board’s succession plan during the year 
with the appointment of Matthew Key and Jeremy Darroch 
as non-executive directors and the announcement that 
Carolyn McCall will be joining the Board as a non-executive 
director on 1 September 2014. These appointments bring 
additional mobile, digital, media, financial, consumer 
travel and general management experience to the Board, 
reflecting the Group’s strategy. 
Consistent with past practice, we reward our people on 
a basis which is strongly aligned to sustainable long-term 
performance and delivering value to our shareholders. 
At the same time, we must take into account the global 
markets in which the Group operates and from which it 
recruits, so as to attract and retain high calibre individuals. 
For the first time shareholders will have a binding vote on 
our remuneration policy, in relation to which we consulted 
with a number of our leading institutional shareholders and 
investor advisory bodies. The details are set out in the 
Directors’ Remuneration Report contained herein.
Finally, a word on culture. Each year I remark that 
Burberry’s strong results reflect the contributions of 
teams across the business – and this continues to be true. 
The line separating strong and median performance in this 
dynamic, highly competitive industry is thin, and a united 
team and vibrant culture can make all the difference. 
Accordingly, Burberry continues to invest in areas that 
foster the further development of its distinctive culture, 
including internal communication activities, career 
development opportunities, compensation plans and 
organisational initiatives, including the opening at the end 
of the year of our second headquarters building, uniting 
all London-based employees on a single campus. The 
internal values that define the Burberry culture continue 
to be expressed through investment externally, in ethical 
trading and sustainability efforts, community involvement 
activities and the Burberry Foundation, to name a few.
Burberry’s present and future success is dependent upon 
the hard work and commitment of our talented global team 
and I thank them for their efforts during the year. I would 
also like to thank our shareholders, customers, partners 
and all those who engage with the brand for their continued 
support, as we look to the future with confidence.
KPI: Growth in adjusted diluted EPS (Year to 31 March) 
A key valuation metric for Burberry’s shareholders.
75.4p +8%
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
75.4 +8%
70.0 +14%
61.6 +26%
48.9 +39%
35.1 +16%
Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before adjusting items.
Reported diluted EPS 72.1p (2013: 57.0p).
9
Strategic Report – Introduction  
