 Stepping down from my position as Burberry’s Chief Executive Officer  
brings a host of reflections on my near nine years in the position. 
Angela Ahrendts
Angela Ahrendts stepped down as Chief Executive 
Officer on 30 April 2014. 
Rather than the specific initiatives, I am more reminded 
of the principles and values through which we wrote 
Burberry’s latest chapter. We put the brand first. 
Our internal ethos of collaboration, intuition and trust. 
The aspiration to be not only a great brand, but a great 
company, with all that implies in a larger societal context. 
Serving in this role for almost nine years has been a 
privilege, an honour, a remarkable experience. I thank the 
entire Burberry community – Board, team, franchise and 
licensing partners, customers and suppliers – for the 
inspiration and partnership during these years. 
Now, Christopher Bailey, Burberry’s Chief Creative and 
Chief Executive Officer, adds the CEO responsibilities to his 
mandate. Working alongside him and the rest of the senior 
team has been among the greatest aspects of the position. 
Together, they will explore exciting opportunities – Beauty 
has just begun to operate, the Japan transformation is well 
underway, the digital world offers boundless possibilities – 
all within the scope of a brand momentum that has never 
been stronger. I look forward to watching as the extended 
team, under Christopher’s exceptional vision and 
leadership, writes Burberry’s next chapter.
12
Strategic Report – Introduction
Chief Executive 
Officers’ Letters It has been an honour to work alongside Angela in shaping Burberry’s 
recent history over the past nine years, and I am privileged today to 
lead this magnificent ‘old, young’ company into its next chapter.
Christopher Bailey
Christopher Bailey was appointed Chief Creative 
and Chief Executive Officer on 1 May 2014.
As my role evolves in this, my thirteenth year at Burberry, 
I believe there have never been greater opportunities for 
our brand globally, or more compelling ways to engage, 
entertain and inspire consumers with our rich and 
inimitable story. 
In Burberry we have something truly unique: a company 
whose story threads through British history and culture, 
from the wardrobes of the Royal Family, through the 
factories of Yorkshire and mills of Scotland, to some 
of the world’s great acts of exploration and many of 
the icons of our popular culture. 
Deeply rooted in expert craftsmanship and innovative 
design, and brought to life both physically and digitally, 
this story defines both who we are today and what we 
can become. In an increasingly competitive marketplace, 
and as luxury consumers globally place ever-greater 
emphasis on provenance, it gives Burberry that most 
precious of things: an authentic and clear identity. 
As such, remaining true to this identity will be critical 
to building and maintaining competitive advantage, 
and to capitalising on the many opportunities that 
lie ahead of us. 
True to the character of this great British brand, these 
opportunities are both old and young. Outerwear, our 
oldest product, continued to underpin our revenue growth 
in this most recent financial year. Looking ahead, we will 
leverage this momentum through an online and offline 
celebration of our heritage that will amplify consumer 
engagement with our most iconic products and further 
clarify our unique brand identity, both in established 
markets and the emerging economies that remain a 
consistent strategic focus. Similarly Japan – an old market 
for Burberry, but a new and under-penetrated opportunity 
for the modern brand. The coming year will see us start to 
shape Burberry’s future in what remains the second-largest 
luxury market in the world. Beauty, now firmly established 
as our fifth product division, reached its first anniversary 
of direct operation in April 2014. With the repositioning of 
the fragrance portfolio and the broadening of our nascent 
make-up business, we are still early in the cycle of this 
under-represented category for the brand and see 
significant potential ahead. And then there is digital, 
where innovative partnerships and a creative mindset 
will continue to unlock significant commercial opportunities 
and engaging experiences in what remains a very new, 
and increasingly mobile, world. 
This is not to say we underestimate what it will take to 
realise these possibilities in the months and years ahead. 
Luxury sector growth has moderated from the highs of the 
recent past and consumer behaviour is evolving quickly. Yet  
I am confident that we have the skills, expertise and focus 
to enable continued outperformance: a closely connected 
culture that allows us to retain our entrepreneurial spirit 
as we grow; the brightest and best talent at all levels of the 
organisation; and an outstanding group of senior executives 
leading the business across our three organisational pillars 
of Design, Product and Communication; the Regions; 
and Operations and Finance. There is no more powerful 
foundation for our future success than the united global 
teams established in recent years.
Looking ahead, I believe that a consistent and focused 
approach to our strategic goals, values and authentic 
brand identity will enable us to live up to the high 
standards we set ourselves and which people have for us, 
while never losing sight of our human and environmental 
responsibilities. As our customers, shareholders and global 
teams, you sit at the heart of this next stage of our journey, 
and I thank you all for your continued support.
13
Strategic Report – Introduction
