 02 BURREN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2004
chairman’s statement
We recorded impressive increases in
production, operating cash ﬂow and proﬁts,
and established the Group’s presence in Egypt,
where we have now been awarded three
licences. Since the year-end, we have moved
into India via the purchase of a 26% interest in
Hindustan Oil Exploration Company. We now
have a portfolio of E&P assets focused in 
four geographic areas with complementary
characteristics and each with material 
upside potential.
Driven by successful drilling programmes 
in Turkmenistan and Congo, average daily
group production (net to Burren) rose by 74%
to 14,200 bopd (2003: 8,140 bopd), making 
the average annual growth rate over the last
three years 75% p.a., a very creditable
performance in an industry context. This
production increase, combined with
substantially higher oil prices, enabled 
Burren to more than double net proﬁt to 
£38.8 million (2003: £15.8 million) and 
to generate net cash ﬂow before ﬁnancing 
of £3.8 million despite a near doubling of 
capital expenditure compared with 2003. 
2004 was the third year in a row of more 
than doubled proﬁts, achieved despite the
effects of the steady decline in the US dollar
against sterling over this period.
As a result of the dramatic expansion of the
M’Boundi ﬁeld in Congo during the year, Group
entitlement P+P reserves increased by 22% to
146 million barrels at 31 December 2004. This
increase of 26 million barrels, representing more
than ﬁve times last year’s production, is after 
a downwards adjustment of 14 million barrels
arising from the impact on our share of future
production, under the terms of the PSCs, of 
an increase in the assumed long term Brent oil
price from US$19/bbl to US$25/bbl. But for this
adjustment the increase would have been 34%.
On a working interest basis P+P reserves
increased by 37% to 246 million barrels.
Burren’s share price has risen strongly over the
period as a result of which the Company was
included in the FTSE 250 index with effect from
21 June 2004. In mid-July 2004, 24.5 million
shares held by pre-Flotation shareholders,
representing 18% of the Company, were 
placed by the Company’s brokers with
institutional investors in response to 
market demand. 
In January 2005, a further 22 million existing
shares (16% of the Company) were placed in 
a similar way. As a result the free ﬂoat has
increased to 63% of Burren’s share capital 
thus improving the market liquidity of the shares.
Burren’s safety performance in Nebit Dag,
where it acts as Operator, has been excellent,
with no serious accidents reported during the
period. Further enhancements have been made
to the HSE management system to ensure the
health and safety of our employees and others.
Burren continues to progress its activities in an
environmentally and socially responsible way.
There have been two additions to the Board
since the beginning of the period: Mr. Pierre
Lasry and Mr. Keith Henry were appointed
Non-Executive Directors in January 2004 and
March 2005, respectively. Both new Directors
have immense knowledge and experience 
of our business and are most welcome 
to the Board. The Audit, Nominations and
Remuneration Committees met regularly 
during the year. Burren is progressing towards
full compliance with the recommendations of
the Revised Combined Code on best practice
in corporate governance. Initiatives undertaken
during the year included a comprehensive
analysis of risk and the management thereof,
carried out during 2004.
In conclusion, I would like on behalf of the
shareholders and the Board to express my
gratitude to the executives, managers and 
all employees, especially those in the ﬁeld, 
for their dedication and hard work in achieving
such successful results. 
Brian Lavers CBE
Chairman
4 April 2005
Brian Lavers CBE
Chairman
I am pleased to report that in 
its ﬁrst full year on the London
Stock Exchange your Company
had a highly successful year.
2004 was a year of great
achievement for Burren both
ﬁnancially and in terms of 
the Company’s strategic
development and creation 
of shareholder value. 
