 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review
2005 was another year of exceptionally strong 
growth for Burren. t he tripling in our net profits 
came from the combination of increased 
production, higher oil prices and tight cost 
controls. Burren’s net production has increased 
by an average compound annual rate of 70% 
per annum over the last four years, an enviable 
record, which has driven our net profit from 
u S$3.7 million in 2001 to u S$220.9 million  
in 2005. 
REVIEW OF t HE YEAR
Over the year we accelerated development  
drilling on our two main assets and prepared  
for a significant exploration programme in 2006. 
We drilled 38 appraisal and development wells  
on the Burun and M’Boundi fields, compared with 
27 in 2004. Of these 38 wells, 33 were placed  
on production and a further two are awaiting 
workover. Working interest production increased 
by 72% to 31,380 bopd (2004: 18,270 bopd), 
whereas our entitlement production increased  
by 58% to 22,440 bopd (2004: 14,170 bopd), as 
stronger crude prices increased the government 
share of production under the terms of our PSAs. 
We finished the year with average December 
working interest production of 35,150 bopd 
compared with 26,450 bopd in January 2005. 
During the year we completed seismic 
interpretation in Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt 
giving us a prospect inventory going forward 
totalling 400 million barrels of potential unrisked 
working interest reserves across 15 different 
prospects. This has the potential to add material 
value to Burren. We are now actively exploring in 
all three countries and will be drilling the large part 
of this inventory over the next 18 months. 
Exploration drilling in Turkmenistan commenced 
in October last year with two deep wells on the 
Nebit Dag East prospect, located toward the 
middle of the PSA area. NDE001 failed to 
encounter commercial hydrocarbons, yet 
NDE002 flowed on test at over 400 bopd from  
a shallow horizon that is now a focus for further 
appraisal drilling. The 2006 deep drilling 
programme will target several potentially high-
impact prospects lying closer to Burun field.  
The first two of these wells, on the south flanks 
of the Burun and Nebit Dag fields, were spudded 
in March. 
In Congo we have identified six targets within the 
Kouilou licence area for exploration drilling this 
year, following the proven oil trend indicated by 
the M’Boundi and Kouakouala fields. In addition, 
we will test the potential extensions of the 
M’Boundi field to the south-east and north-west. 
The first of these step-out wells, to the south-east 
of the M’Boundi field, was spudded in March.
In Egypt, the first exploration well on the East 
Kanayis block, Washka Southwest, spudded and 
completed in March 2006, was dry. The second 
well, Washka South, targeting a neighbouring 
prospect, has just spudded. Seismic acquisition  
is about to commence over a 540 km² area to  
the south of the block with a view to identifying 
deeper Jurassic targets for drilling in 2007. 
We currently have eight rigs contracted and in 
operation in these three countries. However, given 
that we see rig availability as a potential constraint 
to growth, we have decided to purchase two of 
our own drilling rigs. The first of these is currently 
under construction in China and is expected to  
be available in Q3 2006: it is likely that this rig will 
initially be deployed in Turkmenistan. The second 
rig will be available early in 2007.
Finally, in February 2006 we completed the partial 
sale of our shipping business to the Italian shipping 
group Pietro Barbaro SPA for a cash consideration 
of US$4.6 million. The sale involved three tug and 
barge combinations together with associated 
leasing obligations, and relieves the Group’s 
balance sheet of all shipping related liabilities other 
than working capital. Burren retains its interest  
in eight bareboat chartered vessels for a further  
10 years, which have 12 month charters for 2006  
in place and continue to operate profitably in the 
Black Sea and Russian river system.
St RAt EGY AND OBJECt IVES
Burren’s strategy is to build a valuable portfolio of 
oil and gas assets in four key hydrocarbon regions 
of the world: the Caspian and Southern Russia, 
West Africa, Middle East and India. We seek to 
strike a balance between diversity and materiality, 
in order that individual assets can significantly 
impact shareholder value, whilst avoiding an 
undue concentration of political and geological 
risk. We also aim to achieve a balance in terms  
of the portfolio life cycle, acquiring early stage 
exploration and appraisal opportunities in order  
to provide future growth potential to complement 
more mature production assets. 
We seek to build close relationships with 
governments and with domestic partners, often 
involving joint ventures with established local 
entities who can provide local knowledge and 
support. We aim to achieve sufficient critical mass 
in each region to leverage these relationships  
into new opportunities. We have a preference for 
majority stakes in our assets, to provide control; 
where only a minority stake is available this  
should generally be of a sufficient size to give  
us material influence. 
Burren aims to add value to assets by applying 
our technical, commercial and operational 
Finian O’Sullivan
Chief Executive Officer
“Our corporate culture is one of cost 
efficiency and we are proud of our  
record as a low cost operator”
08 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
A Burren geologist  
conquered Everest and 
raised the t urkmen flag
expertise. The production growth achieved in the 
Congo and Turkmenistan is a testament to this. 
Our philosophy is simple: we look to acquire 
assets below their potential value and to monetise 
them at the appropriate point in the development 
cycle when their value to prospective purchasers 
materially exceeds our own risked valuation. If 
suitable re-investment opportunities cannot be 
found we would look for tax-effective ways to 
return such proceeds to shareholders.
Our corporate culture is one of cost efficiency  
and we are proud of our record as a low cost 
operator. We have reduced the Group’s 
production cost per barrel on a working interest 
basis by some 27% over the last three years to 
US$2.27 / bbl in 2005. In Turkmenistan, where we 
are operator, our working interest production cost 
was US$1.73 / bbl last year. We consider control  
of costs to be a key part of shareholder value 
generation and do not intend to lose sight of  
this goal in an era of high oil prices. 
In pursuit of this strategy our operational 
objectives for the coming year are as follows:
Drilling of up to 20 exploration wells on 
prospects in Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt.
Implementation of pilot water injection 
programmes on the Burun and M’Boundi 
fields to assess the potential for enhanced  
oil recovery.
Acquisition of seismic data on the North 
Hurghada Marine block in Egypt and on the 
new blocks in Yemen and Oman, with a view 
to identifying prospects for drilling in 2007.
Progress in negotiations with government 
agencies and other regional operators on the 
construction of a gas pipeline with a view to 
commercialising our Turkmen gas resources 
by 2008.
Continued search and evaluation of new 
development and exploration opportunities 
within our stated geographic focus regions. 
Over the past few years we have hedged a small 
percentage of our production against oil price 
•
•
•
•
•
movements, with the objective of providing some 
protection against a possible oil price collapse. 
Now that these hedges have finally run off, we are 
entirely unhedged going into 2006 and, unless 
circumstances change, we intend to remain  
that way. It is our belief that our shareholders  
wish to retain exposure to the oil price and it  
is not our role to take views on future oil prices  
on their behalf.
Burren’s principal internal resource in achieving 
our goals is its people, and we place great 
emphasis on recruiting and retaining the best 
individuals. To this end we attach importance  
to individual career development and provide 
appropriate training, both internally and using 
external sources, to allow them to achieve their full 
potential. We aim to provide all employees with a 
competitive remuneration package, benchmarked 
against peers and participation in an incentive 
scheme which offers annual awards in cash and 
deferred shares related to the performance of  
the Company.
Out LOOK
We expect working interest production this year 
to average between 36,000 and 37 ,000 bopd, 
compared with 31,380 bopd in 2005. Whilst 
production growth this year will continue, 
exploration drilling will be a key area of focus. The 
introduction of secondary recovery water injection 
programmes in both the Burun and M’Boundi 
fields, should increase well productivity. If these 
water injection programmes prove successful it 
should enable us to raise the recovery factor on 
these two fields, with a consequential positive 
impact on our booked reserves. 
Our principal challenge this year will be to deliver 
success from our exploration drilling programme, 
which is a key driver for Burren’s future value 
growth. We intend to drill at least six deep 
exploration wells in 2006 on each of our core 
assets, the Nebit Dag and Kouilou licences. In 
Egypt, we have commenced a four well exploration 
programme on the East Kanayis block, which will 
be expanded in 2007 to all three of our Egyptian 
operated licences. The addition of Yemen and 
Oman broadens our exploration portfolio and 
extends its potential into 2007 and beyond. 
 
In relation to HOEC, Burren continues to monitor 
its investment and support the company, and 
considers that HOEC will provide valuable 
exposure to oil and gas investment opportunities 
in India. 
With net cash of US$125 million at year end  
and 2006 operating cash flow at current oil  
prices expected to be well in excess of that  
in 2005, Burren has the financial strength  
to allow us to pursue our business agenda  
with confidence.
Finian O’Sullivan
Chief Executive Officer
09
