 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
Chairman’s statement
I am pleased to report another outstanding year 
for Burren both in terms of the performance of 
its existing assets and expansion into new and 
potentially profitable theatres of operation.  
In light of the excellent results the Board is 
recommending a final dividend of 9.5 pence  
per share, making a total dividend in respect  
of 2005 of 12.0 pence per share, a fourfold 
increase in the dividend relating to 2004  
(3.0 pence per share).
Burren’s earnings per share tripled to 159.0 cents 
(2004: 50.1 cents), representing net profit of 
US$220.9 million (2004: US$68.4 million). Pretax 
profit rose by 196% to US$254.6 million (2004: 
US$86.2 million) and net operating cash flow 
increased by 167% to US$277.8 million, while free 
cash flow* was US$97.4 million (2004: negative 
US$1.0 million) despite an 84% increase in capital 
investment. This result was driven by a 58% 
increase in entitlement production to 22,440 bopd 
(2004: 14,170 bopd) and by higher oil prices.  
The continuing increase in production reflected 
successful development drilling and workover 
activity in Turkmenistan and, even more 
significantly, successful development drilling  
in Congo, where 20 new wells were brought  
into production. 
* See definition in Glossary 
This is the fourth year in succession of more than 
doubled profits, positioning the Group as a top 
performer in the oil and gas sector. Among the 
factors behind this success is our emphasis on 
cost control, where over a three year period we 
have brought down our production cost per 
barrel, on a working interest basis, by some 27% 
to US$2.27 per barrel in 2005. At these levels  
we are among the lowest cost operators in 
the industry.
Driven by our development drilling success our 
proven reserves have grown in 2005 by 14% to 
84.6 million barrels on a working interest basis, 
which, excluding production/disposals for the year, 
represents growth of 34%. Our working interest 
proven & probable reserves, however, reduced by 
13% to 214.2 million barrels, although excluding 
production/disposals the reduction is only 7%.  
The reduction was primarily due to a  downward 
revision to our assumptions as to probable oil in 
place in the M’Boundi field in Congo following the 
results of the MBD1204 and 1401 wells, which 
together have helped to redefine the northern 
boundary of the field. It also reflects the impact  
of the conditional sale of a 3.5% interest in the 
M’Boundi field to the Congolese national oil 
company SNPC. However if the 60,000 bwpd 
M’Boundi water injection programme, which is 
due to start in the fourth quarter of the year, is 
successful this could have a material beneficial 
impact on the reserves in the field.
The Group’s proven & probable reserves 
represent an 18 year reserve life based on 2005 
working interest production, and seven years for 
proved reserves alone. 
Over the past year the focus of our activities has 
extended outside our key producing Burun and 
M’Boundi fields towards exploration of new areas. 
Extensive seismic surveys have been carried out 
over the past two years in Turkmenistan and 
Congo, and a new survey is about to commence 
in Egypt. Exploration drilling is continuing in 
Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt, and eight heavy 
rigs have been secured for the 2006 exploration 
and development programme between these 
three countries.  We plan to drill up to 20 
exploration wells over the course of this year to 
evaluate an unrisked prospect inventory of over 
400 million barrels, all located in established 
hydrocarbon provinces.
During the year we made good progress in 
acquiring a portfolio of assets in the Middle East, 
in line with Burren’s strategy of growth into new 
frontier areas. In Egypt, a production sharing 
contract for the shallow water North Hurghada 
block in the Gulf of Suez was signed in August 
2005. Burren was also awarded the onshore 
North Lagia block, north of the Gulf of Suez, 
subject to government ratification which is 
expected in the first half of 2006. We acquired 
significant new licence interests in Yemen and 
Oman, subject to government ratification. Block 6 
in Yemen consists of 3,911 km² of onshore 
located in the prolific Shabwa Basin between 
commercially productive oil fields to the west and 
east. Burren’s working interest will be 92%. Block 
50 in Oman consists of 16,680 km² offshore in 
water depths of up to 100 metres. Burren has 
acquired a 40% non-operated interest in this high 
reward, high risk block, which is operated by 
Oman Hunt.
In India, the market value of our 26% equity share 
of HOEC has nearly doubled since its acquisition 
in February 2005. Negotiations are under way 
with a local electricity generator on a gas sales 
contract so that development of the PY-1 gas field 
can begin. 
In January 2005, 22 million shares held by 
pre-flotation shareholders, representing 16.0%  
of the Company, were placed by the Company 
brokers with institutional investors in response to 
market demand. In September 2005, a further  
12 million shares (8.8% of the Company) were 
placed in a similar way. As a result, the free float 
has increased to 71.9% of Burren’s share capital, 
thus improving the market liquidity of the shares. 
Following a comprehensive review during 2005,  
a combined Health, Safety, Environment and 
Community (HSEC) framework was established, 
co-ordinating a revised set of HSEC policies, 
principles and standards. HSEC managers have 
been appointed in London, Turkmenistan and 
Egypt. I am pleased to report that there were no 
serious accidents in Burren-operated locations 
during the period. An HSEC audit has been 
“This is the fourth year in succession of more 
than doubled profits, defining Burren as a top 
performer in the oil and gas sector”
Brian Lavers CBE
Chairman 
02 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
The Year in Review
January Placing of 22 million shares, representing 
16.0% of issued share capital, by pre-flotation 
shareholders
February Award of two additional exploration blocks  
in Egypt: North Hurghada Marine and North Lagia
Acquisition of 26% interest in Hindustan Oil Exploration 
Company for US$26 million
March Keith Henry is appointed as Independent  
Non-executive Director
June Fourth drilling rig arrives on M’Boundi.  
Gross field production hits 45,000 bopd
August Conditional sale of a 3.5% interest in M’Boundi 
field to Congolese state-owned oil company SNPC
Signature of US$80 million standing loan facility
September Placing of 12 million shares, representing 
8.8% of issued share capital, by pre-flotation 
shareholders, bringing free float to 71.9%
October Exploration programme in Turkmenistan 
begins with spudding of first well on Nebit Dag  
East prospect
December New throughput and blending 
arrangements at Djeno terminal in Congo, resulting  
in significant improvement in price realisation
M’Boundi gross field production exceeds 55,000 bopd
carried out of the operations in Congo and steps 
are being taken to assure high standards are 
maintained even in the locations where we are  
not the operator. Burren continues to engage with 
local communities, funding a number of social 
projects in Turkmenistan, including the award  
of six postgraduate scholarships in the UK to 
Turkmen nationals, and supporting a European 
Union sponsored conservation programme for 
wildlife in northern Congo. 
There has been one addition to the Board since 
the beginning of the period: Keith Henry was 
appointed an Independent Non-executive 
Director on 31 March 2005 and was subsequently 
designated Senior Independent Director in 
September 2005. 
Having reached the age of 70, I shall be stepping 
down as Chairman at the Annual General Meeting 
on 24 May 2006 although I am delighted to 
continue to serve as a member of the Board.  
I have had the great privilege of fulfilling the 
Chairman’s role for over seven years during which 
time Burren has developed from a relatively small 
private company to one of the largest independent 
oil companies on the London Stock Exchange  
by market capitalisation. My successor will be 
Keith Henry, who has immense knowledge and 
experience of our industry, and I commend him  
to you. 
In conclusion, I believe that your Company is  
well placed to enjoy continued growth from  
its development programmes in Congo and 
Turkmenistan, from the extensive exploration 
programme on which it is now embarking, and 
from exciting new business opportunities in 
Egypt, Yemen, Oman and India. Finally, I would 
like on behalf of the shareholders and the Board 
to express my gratitude to the executives, 
managers and all employees, especially those in 
the field, for their dedication, resourcefulness and 
hard work in achieving such successful results.
Brian Lavers CBE
Chairman
03
