 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
03
Chairman’s statement
During 2006 the oil & gas industry enjoyed 
another year of increased prices, and Burren’s 
average realised price rose by 24% to US$59.2/bbl. 
This rise impacted Burren’s share of gross 
production. Although our working interest 
production rose, as a result of having recovered 
our historic expenditure on the Group’s two main 
producing fields our entitlement production fell, 
and consequently revenues increased by a 
more modest 7% to US$416 million. However 
our strict cost control enabled us to increase net 
profits by 13% to US$249 million. Our operating 
cash flow was very strong, up by 17% to 
US$324 million, improving our year-end cash 
position to US$202 million, with no debt. 
At year-end the Group had built up a 
significant underlift position of over 490,000 
barrels, the value of which has not been 
reflected in 2006 profits. Were this underlift to 
have been converted into sales at the end of 
2006 it would have added US$28.4 million to 
revenues and US$21.2 million to gross profit.
The long-term future of Burren is dependent 
on our ability to maximise the recovery and 
production from our existing reserves and to 
continue to find and develop new oil & gas 
fields. To that end we increased our capital 
expenditure during the year to US$211 million, 
with an extensive exploration programme,  
and expanded the provision of water-injection 
facilities, both in Turkmenistan and Congo. In 
Turkmenistan, where we are the operator, we 
added 15 million bbls of proven and probable 
reserves of oil, more than replacing Burren’s 
total production during the year.
In March 2007 Burren entered into an agreement 
with Eni to purchase an additional 5.5% interest 
in the M’Boundi field and 2% interest in the 
Kouilou exploration licence in Congo, subject to 
the completion of the purchase of these assets 
by Eni from Maurel & Prom. This is a sign of the 
confidence that Burren has in the long-term 
value of these assets.
Burren was listed on the London Stock 
Exchange at the end of 2003 and the Group’s 
achievements over the past three years have 
been considerable. The management team at 
Burren has two key objectives: to develop our 
existing reserves safely and cost effectively 
and to look for attractive growth opportunities. 
In 2003 our average production was 10,200 
bopd as compared with over 34,000 bopd in 
2006, and our revenue has increased fivefold 
over that three year period. Since being listed 
three years ago, Burren has developed into a 
significant and well established independent 
oil & gas company, with proven capabilities 
and track record. We are determined to build 
on that track record and create sustainable 
shareholder value. 
Finian O’Sullivan has been instrumental in 
establishing Burren and in leading the Group 
through its embryonic years. In September, 
the Board appointed Finian as President to 
take full advantage of his undoubted business 
development skills by allowing him to focus  
on pursuing new opportunities for the Group. 
Atul Gupta, who is highly experienced in the 
industry and was previously Chief Operating 
Officer, was appointed Chief Executive. 
I am very pleased to report that the team at 
Burren has continued to build on the success of 
earlier years and has delivered excellent results 
during 2006, increasing production, profits and 
reserves. The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 10.0p per share, giving a total 
dividend for 2006 of 14.0p per share, an 
increase of 17% compared with 2005.
Keith Henry
Chairman
During the year we also recruited a number of 
senior managers and staff to strengthen the 
team so as to better manage our increasing 
exploration portfolio in Egypt, Yemen, Oman 
and India. 
I joined Burren as a Non-Executive Director in 
March 2005 and I took over from Brian Lavers 
as Chairman at the AGM in 2006. During my 
period with the Company I have been very 
impressed by the professionalism, enthusiasm 
and dedication of the executives and staff.  
On behalf of the Board and our shareholders  
I would like to thank all our employees for  
their efforts and for making 2006 another 
successful year.
Burren has a history and culture of being 
innovative, both technically in the field and in 
developing new ventures. It is the skills of our 
employees, and the Burren culture, which will 
enable us to face future challenges and to 
continue our success in 2007.
Keith Henry
Chairman
