 Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
06
Chief Executive’s statement
The average discount at which our crude was 
sold relative to Brent improved to US$5.20/bbl 
compared to US$7.20/bbl in the previous year. 
The Group successfully replaced reserves by 
adding 15 million barrels in Turkmenistan at  
a finding cost of US$2.70/bbl (Turkmenistan 
exploration costs only), against depletion by 
production of 13 million barrels. 
The above production and reserves growth 
came directly as a result of an aggressive 
drilling programme which saw the Group 
participate in a record 51 development  
and exploration wells. Thirty of these were 
development wells of which 26 were put on 
production. A total of 21 exploration wells 
were drilled which resulted in two discoveries, 
the Balkan field in Turkmenistan and the 
Loufika field in Congo. 
These discoveries are close to existing fields 
and infrastructure owned by Burren and both 
are already in production. Further appraisal 
drilling is being conducted on both these 
fields to determine their potential size. 
Significant progress was also made on water-
injection projects on our two core producing 
fields, which have the potential to materially 
increase reserves through higher recovery 
factors. In Turkmenistan, a pilot water-injection 
project in both shallow and deep reservoirs 
was successful. The shallow reservoirs, in 
particular, exhibited excellent injectivity and 
gave early positive responses from observation 
wells. For the deeper layers, injectivity is 
variable but a positive response has already 
been seen and we have enough confidence 
to move ahead with plans to expand the 
injection programme from the current capacity 
of 10,000 bwpd to 30,000 bwpd. In Congo, 
after minor delays in procuring equipment, 
injection started at the beginning of 2007  
and is planned to increase to 60,000 bwpd 
during the year.
Our agreement with Eni in March 2007 to 
purchase a further 5.5% interest in the M’Boundi 
field, along with an additional 2% of Kouilou, 
reflects our belief that the M’Boundi field in 
particular has significant future upside potential 
with Eni as operator. We expect this deal to be 
completed at the same time as Eni’s purchase 
from Maurel & Prom.
Gas commercialisation discussions progressed 
in Turkmenistan with an independent verification 
of our contingent gas reserves (395 bcf),  
a defined plateau production rate and the 
selection of the preferred route to link to 
export infrastructure. Following the death  
of President Niyazov in December 2006  
and the subsequent election of President 
Berdymukhamedov, the oil and gas authorities 
in Turkmenistan have re-affirmed their 
commitment to continuing these discussions. 
We successfully bid for an additional exploration 
licence in Yemen bringing us to a total of six 
licences in our Middle East/North Africa portfolio, 
in five of which we are Operator and hold 
interests close to 100%. Whilst initial exploration 
drilling of three shallow wells on the East Kanayis 
licence in Egypt failed to find commercial 
hydrocarbons, this represents only a small part 
of the planned exploration programme. 
Finally, in India, Hindustan Oil Exploration 
Company (HOEC) successfully drilled and 
tested a horizontal development well in 
basement reservoir (a first in India) on its 
undeveloped PY-1 gas field offshore south-east 
India. Since a long-term gas sales contract  
is close to signature, the development of  
the field, subject as always to acceptable 
development costs, can now begin in earnest. 
Participation in a US $33 million rights issue  
by HOEC in Q4 resulted in Burren increasing 
its shareholding from 26% to 27%.
STRATEGY AND OBJECTIVES
Burren’s strategy is to create shareholder value 
by investing in oil & gas projects in four key 
hydrocarbon regions of the world: the Caspian, 
West Africa, the Middle East/North Africa and 
India. We aim to conduct our businesses in a 
socially responsible manner and seek to attain 
the highest international standards for health, 
safety and the environment.
Our objectives are to grow our production  
and reserve base by: (i) further development  
of our existing fields; (ii) exploring our existing 
concessions; and (iii) acquiring new assets 
with proven reserves and production. To that 
end, our growth strategy is not confined to 
exploration: we are also prepared, as we have 
successfully shown in the last five years, to 
take on and manage reservoir development 
risk, political risk and market risk. 
During 2006 we made sound progress in all 
aspects of our business. Group working interest 
production increased for the sixth consecutive 
year averaging 34,240 bopd, 9% above the 
previous year, whilst the average unit cost of 
production was unchanged at US$2.50 per 
working interest barrel, one of the lowest in  
the sector.
Atul Gupta
Chief Executive Officer Click to return to contents Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2006
07
We believe the areas of the world in which  
we work offer such opportunities and we will 
seek to manage the associated risks through 
the application of technical and commercial 
expertise, maintaining close relationships with 
governments and partners who can provide 
local knowledge and support.
We are proud of our record of maintaining cost 
efficiency and we believe, even in the current 
environment of high commodity prices, that 
cost control is a key part of performance.  
To that end we will continue to analyse every 
aspect of our cost structure and look for 
means of reducing costs efficiently. 
Our immediate objectives for the coming year, 
as described more fully in the Business Review, 
are to continue the development of our 
producing fields in Turkmenistan and Congo 
via increased development drilling and water 
injection, whilst maintaining the pace of 
exploration. We intend to focus efforts  
on progressing gas commercialisation in 
Turkmenistan and in identifying new investment 
opportunities to make best use of our strong 
balance sheet.
We continue to place great emphasis on 
attracting and retaining the best quality staff 
and to that end are delighted to have recruited 
Simon Gill as Operations Director and Ian 
Bingham as Chief Geophysicist. 
OUTLOOK
Based on sound fundamentals of hydrocarbon 
reservoir exploration, performance and 
development, our outlook for 2007 and 
beyond remains positive.
During 2007 we expect to maintain working 
interest production at about 35,000 bopd. 
Assuming that the Eni transaction completes 
successfully this could add a further 2,000 bopd. 
This year we plan to drill approximately the 
same number of exploration wells as in 2006 
(including six wells by HOEC), with a particular 
focus on Congo, before switching to the 
Middle East/North Africa in 2008.
In relation to HOEC, Burren continues to provide 
shareholder and management support as 
HOEC seeks to develop its PY-1 gas field and 
explore its other acreage. 
Since its origins in the early nineties, Burren’s 
aim has been to create shareholder value by 
organic means. Our strategy has been to  
seek out opportunities before they became 
widely known, to keep a close eye on costs, 
and to grow reserves, production and cash 
flow reinvesting the surplus in new theatres 
of operation.
The success of this strategy has been 
demonstrated by the growth in Group 
production, which has increased from just 
over 2,000 bopd in 2000, when we took  
over operatorship of the Nebit Dag licence,  
to over 34,000 in 2006.
I expect this growth to continue, driven by 
water-injection programmes on our existing 
fields and by the addition of Turkmen gas 
production once the commercial parameters 
are finally agreed. Having had modest 
exploration success in Turkmenistan, the 
exploration focus shifts to Congo for 2007  
and then on to the Middle East/North Africa  
in 2008.
The management team is highly motivated to 
further develop the business and work has 
been going on during the last year on several 
important new business initiatives, some of 
which may come to fruition in 2007.
With net cash at year end of over US$200 
million, all generated through operating cash 
flow, and no debt, Burren has proven its ability  
to build a profitable business. Our focus on 
fundamentals of the upstream business, with 
a disciplined approach to cost control, stands 
us in good stead to achieve our programme of 
organic growth complemented by new projects.
Finally, as of September 2006, I was honoured 
to have been appointed as Chief Executive 
and will strive to the best of my ability to create 
value for the Group and all its stakeholders. 
Atul Gupta
Chief Executive Officer
Having seen Burren through its first three 
years post flotation, I am proud of what we 
have achieved. In Atul Gupta, the Group  
has a highly capable Chief Executive in  
whose hands I am confident to leave the  
day-to-day running of the business, allowing 
me to focus fully on new business opportunities 
which will deliver the next cycle of growth.
Finian O’Sullivan
President
