 Our Business at a Glance
Business Control Solutions Group plc
Annual Report 2007
02
Business Control Solutions Group supplies solutions in the form of both computer software and industry
domain expertise aimed at solving business and technology problems for financial services clients. 
Software solutions are aimed at enabling visible control monitoring of day-to-day business processes 
and the provision of accurate reporting to meet internal and regulatory compliance obligations. 
Consulting services enable clients to leverage exceptional financial services domain expertise and experience 
to implement effective, sustainable solutions to complex business and technical challenges.
BCS Operational Control Architecture® (OCA™)
Captures control certifications, key
performance and risk metrics, loss events and
near misses combining this information into
departmental scorecards and dashboards that
give an intra-day measure of operational
control and regulatory compliance. OCA instils
an holistic control culture enabling real-time
optimisation of operational risk, by easily
integrating the knowledge of your people with
effective risk and control measures.
Our Market Data Analysts
Optimise both the usage and the licensing
contracts under which market data is purchased
within an organisation, with the objective of
creating a sustainable market data environment
that evolves in line with business demand.
BCS Integrity™
Provides instant visibility over the account
substantiation process across multiple regions,
business units, general ledgers and currencies,
and enables senior management to quickly
understand what balances are at risk, which
accounts have been reconciled, who owns each
account and what still needs to be done before
the financial period closes.
BCS Agent Reconciliation and Control™ (Arc)
Provides a golden source of agent bank 
fee information that is used to generate fast,
accurate, and easy to manage reconciliations of
agent bank transaction and custody charges. 
Our Management Consultants
Deliver business transformation programs
within finance, risk, IT and operations across
both the buy and sell side. Their extensive
domain expertise helps our clients to fast-track
solutions to difficult and complex problems.
BSC ResourceIT®
Provides highly skilled, motivated, professional,
technical staff to work at your offices under
your guidance and your normal working
practices. Our flexible approach allows you to
choose the engagement model and specify
whether you want to manage the resources or
set project targets and service levels that we
need to meet.  03
Our Business at a Glance
“The implementation of OCA has meant that I have
visibility across the key areas of operational risk in
AFM, yet I’m only 5 clicks away from the lowest
level of detail.”
Nathan Bostock, CFO, Abbey Group
