 Chief Executive’s Review
Business Control Solutions Group plc
Annual Report 2007
06
In 2007 we have focused our efforts on implementing the strategy we set
out at the time of our fund-raising at the end of 2006. We invested
significantly in both our Consulting and Software businesses, whilst
continuing to transition our revenues to an annuity base. The initiatives
undertaken during 2007 ensure we are well positioned for the year ahead.
Financial Performance
The Group had revenues of £9.7m for the year showing a 20% increase
on 2006. The Consulting division grew at 26% whilst the Software
division was up by 4%, despite significant investment in the year and the
transition of our revenues to an annuity based revenue model.
Contracted annuity income within the software business at 31 December
2007 was £776,000 compared to £413,000 at the end of 2006, a rise of
88%. Deferred income as at 31 December 2007 was £298,000, a 4%
increase on 2006.
Gross margin for the Group was unchanged at 38% for the year despite
the stronger sales performance from the Consulting division where gross
margins are typically lower than those achieved in the Software division.
An improvement in the Consulting gross margin compensated for the
adverse shift in the sales mix away from the Software division. The
Consulting margin benefited from improved rates of utilisation, with the
utilisation rate being maintained consistently above 85% throughout 
the year.
The Group continues to invest in building its strategic software products
with development effort having been focused on the three strategic
products of Agent Reconciliation and Control (Arc), Balance Sheet
Integrity (Integrity), and our Operational Control Architecture (OCA). In
the year to 31 December 2007 £552,000 (2006: £35,000) of
development costs have been capitalised under IFRS where the Directors
consider the recognition criteria to have been met.
Our operating expenses continue to be largely personnel-related and
have risen 12% on 2006. Removing the impact of development cost
capitalisation, operating expenses would have risen by 26%. This rise has
been driven by an increase in the average number of heads employed
during the year in the Group by 37% to 93 as we have added to our
development capability and increased our Consulting labour pool, in line
with the rise in the demand for our services.
The loss before tax for the year was £237,000 (2006: £516,000) before
allowing for a charge for share options of £162,000 (2006: £168,000).
Taking into account the share options charge then the loss before tax
was £399,000 (2006: £684,000).
Trade debtors have risen commensurately with sales. Debtor days
outstanding have improved slightly to 61 (2006: 62.5).
The Group used £906,000 of cash during the year as we invested in our
new strategic products and grew our Consulting capability. Much of this
investment occurred in the first half of the year with the second half 
of the year seeing the Group return a positive cash flow. As at 
31 December 2007 the Group had £2.8m in cash.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend for the
period ended 31 December 2007 (2006: nil).
Consulting Division
The division has enjoyed a strong year with revenues up 26% on 2006.
This growth has been experienced across all areas of our service offering.
The division is now significantly more robust with revenue now being
shared more evenly across engagements and clients. I am particularly
encouraged that this broadening of our customer base has been achieved
by continuing to focus our offering on the financial services sector.
Achieving significant growth in our Consulting business is reliant on our
ability to grow our headcount. In line with our stated intentions, the year
saw us increase our Consulting headcount by ten, incurring significant
recruitment fees as we sought to add to our consulting skill set and
establish ourselves as a leading provider of management consultancy
within the European financial services market. Despite this high level of
recruitment we were able to maintain our utilisation rates consistently
above 85% throughout the year ensuring strong revenue growth was
achieved whilst at the same time protecting our gross margin. 
During the year the Group launched its CTRL+ methodology specifically
targeting the areas of operational risk management and control. This
newly defined approach will enable clients to successfully diagnose
operational risk, implement changes and achieve continuous
improvement through having real time visibility over the status of their
risks and controls. This solution combines the Group’s Consultancy and
Software expertise to deliver best practice in operational control and
operational risk management and will allow the Group to exploit any
cross-selling opportunities.  07
Chief Executive’s Review
Employees and Board Changes
The year has seen key changes at Board level including Steve Russell’s
appointment as Chairman following Mitchel Lenson’s departure. Steve’s
contribution has been significant in ensuring we remain focused on our
strategic goals. During the period, we also saw the addition to the Board
of Roger Shepherd, our new Group Finance Director. I am confident we
have the right team in place to deliver on our strategy.
Group headcount grew by 10 to 102 as at 31 December 2007, of which
83 were permanent employees up from 78 on 31 December 2006. This
increase in headcount can be attributed to the growth in the Consulting
division which has been the primary driver behind our strong sales
growth. Our future growth prospects in the Consulting division are
rooted in our ability to recruit and retain talented individuals with the
appropriate level of skills and experience.
Strategy
Our strategy remains unchanged. The Consulting division now has the
necessary cash flow and processes in place to support the continued
investment in recruiting and training our Consulting personnel. 
In the Software division we will be investing in sales and marketing
activities in 2008 as we seek to establish Integrity, OCA and Arc as
industry leading products.
We continue to see opportunities internationally and as such continue to
look for international partners to accelerate our growth.
Current Trading and Outlook 
The Consulting division has begun 2008 in the same vein as it finished
2007 enjoying strong growth across our client base and our range of
services. We are entering an important phase for the Software division
with the recent launches of Integrity and Arc and the continued
investment in OCA. Levels of interest in the products are high and we
remain confident in their future success. We will be investing in sales and
marketing activities in 2008 as we seek to establish Integrity, OCA and
Arc as industry leading products. 
Although we remain mindful of the broader economic environment, to
date we have not seen any indication of a slowdown requiring us to alter
our positive view of our prospects for the year ahead. If anything, the
current environment has heightened the awareness of control related
issues within the financial service marketplace. 
We have greater visibility on our forward revenues than at any time in
the past and our well diversified client base and assignment portfolio
provides us with a robust revenue stream and gives us confidence in
achieving another successful year.
N D Walder
Chief Executive
28 March 2008
Software Division
The division has had a demanding year as it has sought to manage the
needs of its existing clients whilst at the same time focusing its efforts on
building the Group’s new strategic products. The transitioning of the
business into an annuity revenue model has gained traction with a near
doubling to 40% of 2008’s target now contracted. Going forward we
will be looking to accelerate the growth of this number as we focus on
selling new products on an annuity basis.
The investment in new staff with the necessary skills to design, build,
market and sell our new products, which we began in 2006, carried
forward into 2007. Average headcount employed in the division during
the year rose to 38 from 23 in 2006 as we deliberately ring-fenced our
strategic development activity to ensure the quality of the delivered
product is at its highest. £552,000 of internal development labour costs
were capitalised during the year.
We continue to focus on our three strategic products: 
1. Integrity. The product provides senior management of our client
organisations with transparency and enables greater control over the
balance sheet substantiation process. It provides management with
confidence that the assets and liabilities held on the Company’s
balance sheet are accurately stated. 
2. Operational Control Architecture (OCA). OCA gives senior
management visibility over their business processes identifying and
prioritising any risk areas. The product is currently operational in five
leading banking groups. An updated version with enhanced
functionality will be available in quarter four 2008.
3. Agent Reconciliation & Control (Arc). Arc is the next generation
of our existing product (Network Management). The product
validates agent banks’ invoices against system generated expected
fees and highlights any discrepancies for investigation.
The first quarter of 2008 has seen the focus of the division shift into
sales and marketing, primarily on these three core products. For
example, our ‘Integrity’ product carried out its formal product launch on
25 February. Marketing efforts have been enhanced significantly raising
the awareness of both the Company and our products. These include a
Company event held at the Tower of London on 28 February, where
senior financial managers attended a panel discussion by leading
industry experts on control around the balance sheet substantiation
process.
