 Chairman’s Statement
Business Control Solutions Group plc
Annual Report 2007
04
2007 has been a year of significant change and progress and the
business is fully focused and clear about its priorities. We have achieved
good growth in the business despite the high levels of investment in
both our Consultancy and Software businesses as we have set about
delivering on our strategy. 
Our Consulting business performed strongly, building momentum
through the year. The first half of the year saw us invest in recruiting and
retaining the necessary skills. The business won several important new
accounts and with increased revenue across more key clients and
engagements the business enters 2008 in a healthy position.
In our Software business our strategy has been to invest heavily in
building our strategic products. We made progress in improving the
quality of our sales by moving to an annuity based revenue model,
thereby reducing our reliance on non-recurring revenue. We are entering
a key phase in the Software business with the recent launch of our
Balance Sheet Integrity product. Initial interest is encouraging and our
challenge for 2008 is to translate this interest into sales. 
We have also moved to strengthen the Board in 2007 with the
appointment of Roger Shepherd as Group Finance Director, who I am
delighted to welcome to the Company. I am confident the team we now
have in place will ensure we are able to drive the Group forward in the
coming year, drawing on the strong progress achieved particularly in the
second half of 2007.
In the year ahead we expect the demand for our services and products to
remain strong as the pressure on our customers to become more
efficient grows. We have good visibility on our order book and our well
diversified client base and assignment portfolio provides us with a robust
revenue stream.
I’d like to finish by thanking all of our staff for their continued hard work
and commitment during 2007. Our foundations are well established and
we are building for the future.
Steve Russell
Chairman
28 March 2008 05
Chairman’s Statement
“We were impressed with the Business Control
Solutions product, a radical but practical approach
to provide clear visibility over the continuous
monitoring of our extensive risk based control
frameworks. Business Control Solutions will
provide IFDS with an efﬁcient and continuous
means to assess, control and mitigate its
operational and regulatory risk, while supporting
the high calibre service we offer our clients.”
Simon Hudson-Lund, 
Chief Operating Officer at International Financial Data Services UK (IFDS)
