  Business Control Solutions Group plc
Annual Report 2008
 Chairman’s Statement
16271    27/04/2009      Proof 5
04
We believe the business has performed creditably 
in what has been and remains a challenging market 
environment. We have continued the process, begun in 
2007, of narrowing the focus of the business and have, 
by taking steps to slim down our cost base, moved into 
profit for the year. This, allied to strong working capital 
management, has left our cash position unchanged on 
2007 and has ensured we enter 2009 with a healthy cash 
balance. 
Our Consulting business revenues held up well in a 
difficult market. This bears testimony to the strength of 
our client relationships and our clients’ perception of the 
quality of the service we deliver. The business won several 
important new accounts and with increased revenue 
across more engagements the business starts 2009 from a 
position of strength.
In our Software business we have continued investing in 
our strategic products. Our balance sheet substantiation 
product, Integrity, went live at Deutsche Bank, our first 
client, and we also saw the first sale of our new version 
of Arc to HSBC. We have made progress in improving the 
quality of our revenues and the move to an annuity based 
model has reduced our reliance on non-recurring revenue. 
2009 is set to be another important year for our Software 
business with a market where the need for increased 
governance, risk management and control is becoming 
widely accepted set against a general tightening of 
clients’ budgets. 
The well publicised difficulties experienced in the financial 
services sector and the wider economy as a whole, 
which are expected to continue throughout 2009, will 
make for another challenging year. Our cash position 
together with our strong management team provides me 
with confidence that we are well placed to meet these 
challenges. 
I’d like to finish by thanking all of our staff for their 
enthusiasm, commitment and hard work during 2008. 
 Steve Russell
Chairman
12 March 2009
16271BUSINESS.indd   04 16271BUSINESS.indd   04 27/04/2009   14:26 27/04/2009   14:26 16271    27/04/2009      Proof 5
05
 Chairman’s Statement/Case Study
“We wanted to take a consolidated view to quickly 
identify potential problems across functions, asset 
classes and regions. The quicker you know about a 
problem, the quicker you can do something about 
it. It’s my early warning system.”
 Case Study: Deutsche Bank Implements BCS Integrity™
Summary
Deutsche Bank implemented BCS Integrity™ to take control of 
the global balance sheet reconciliation and sign-off process. This 
product was rolled out globally in 6 months to 3,000 users in 48 
locations, covering 1.5 million accounts, sourced from 10 ledger 
systems, via 60 feeds.
Key Objectives
• A single global hierarchy capable of supporting all the 
complexity of a large distributed organisation
•  Improve transparency across the entire organisation’s P&L 
exposure
•  Facilitate more efficient use of resources
•  Manage down operational risk
•  Enforce account ownership
•  Full audit trail
Solution
BCS Integrity™ is installed in a single US data centre and accessed 
via web browser by over 3,000 users in 48 countries across the 
globe. Each user has access to only those accounts assigned to 
them by the configurable ownership rules matrix. The screens are 
configured to show data in local terminology and layout whilst 
providing global transparency across the business enterprise through 
intra-day reporting. Orphaned accounts are quickly identified and 
re-assigned through the ownership management function.
The application imports data from over 60 individual feeds sourced 
from 10 general ledgers ranging on complexity from spreadsheets 
to SAP . The monthly timetable determines when it is valid to accept 
data imports, and controls the sign-off deadlines for each step in 
the process. Users are notified when the imported balance on an 
account differs from the signed-off balance. Account data and 
exceptions are recorded in a single, centralised repository, giving 
managers instant visibility of the consolidated balance sheet and 
P&L impact.
BCS Integrity™ allows Deutsche Bank to use their offshore service 
centre to perform the initial reconciliations and the workflow 
functionality manages the handover of the accounts back to the 
onshore owners for verification and sign-off.
Hotspots are used as an early warning system to clearly identify 
those balances most at risk. Operations and Finance users can 
clearly see which accounts need additional investigation.
Benefits
•  Finance and Operations work from a single source of truth for 
accounts, owners, balances, P&L impact, workflow and reporting
•  Early warning of potential risk areas and ability to drill into the 
detail
•  Orphaned accounts easy to find and assign
•  Reduced cost and improved control
•  Increased process efficiency and visibility
•  Consolidated management information reports with historic 
trend analysis
•  Instant access to balances and P&L exposure across the entire 
organisation
•  Ownership, accountability and transparency across the entire set 
of accounts
•  A single application meeting both global and local business 
requirements
•  Integral support for offshore service teams
Mandy Coxon, Head of UK Finance and Global Head of Management 
Reporting, Deutsche Bank.
This project received a Finextra 
Innovation Showcase Award 
2009
16271BUSINESS.indd   05 16271BUSINESS.indd   05 27/04/2009   14:26 27/04/2009   14:26
