 04 Business Direct Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 06/07
Introduction
The 13 month period to 31 January 2007 was 
particularly busy, with significant changes 
to the structure and direction of the business 
and its management team.
Following my appointment as chief executive ofﬁcer 
in September, I instigated a Strategic Review 
to determine the direction of the business 
over the next three years. At the same time, 
we undertook a round of fundraising to restructure 
our ﬁnances and to provide the backing for 
our new strategy. Finally, towards the end of 
the period, there were several management 
changes at board level.
Business review
Business Direct is a specialist provider of 
logistics solutions for the computer, electrical 
and field services engineer market. Since 
January 2007, it has been organised into two 
Divisions, ParcelXchange and Specialist, 
reflecting the conclusion of my Strategic 
Review to concentrate on those two areas.
In order to carry out this strategy successfully, 
we realised we needed to restructure the ﬁnances 
of the business and so in October we undertook 
a series of presentations to current and potential 
investors. As a result we were successful in raising 
an additional £3m of investment and, at the same 
time, restructuring our long term borrowings.
ParcelXchange
The ParcelXchange Division comprises 
ParcelXchange, direct engineer delivery 
(“In-Boot”) and direct vendor trunking/delivery 
to forward stock locations (“FSLs”), providing 
logistics solutions for the ﬁnal mile delivery. 
It has a blue chip client base and partnerships 
with global supply chain companies, such as 
DHL/Exel and TNT . A European inbound freight 
solution and a national P .U.D.O. network (manned 
Pick Up Drop Off points) will be launched later 
this year, enabling us to offer a total In-Night 
solution, giving pre-8 a.m. delivery of UK and 
European freight to the ﬁeld personnel market.
In the 13 month period, the ParcelXchange 
Division turnover totalled £7.52m (2005: £4.58m), 
with ParcelXchange turnover totalling £4.48m 
(2005: £1.70m). 
Business Direct owns a national network 
of award winning ParcelXchanges, providing 
a secure deposit and reverse logistics 
environment, using sophisticated technology 
with end-to-end track-and-trace. The 
ParcelXchanges are typically used to service 
the ﬁeld engineer market, delivering parts 
into a secure locker in a convenient location. 
Customers can rent ParcelXchange lockers 
for a pre-agreed period (“Fixed”) or pay as 
used (“Dynamic”). ParcelXchange represents 
Chief executive’s review
The 13 month period 
to 31 January 2007 
was particularly busy, 
with signiﬁcant changes.
A European inbound 
freight solution and 
a national P .U.D.O 
network will be 
launched later this year, 
enabling us to offer a 
total In-Night solution.
Paul Carvell Chief executive officer
_1_BUS_ar06_front.indd   4 06/06/2007   16:11:59 05 Business Direct Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 06/07
the UK’s largest network of intelligent drop boxes 
and the lockers are installed nationwide, normally 
at petrol stations and supermarkets, with an 
average drive time of just 15 minutes from 
an engineer’s home.
The number of ParcelXchanges increased 
to approximately 300 from 280 and the number 
of individual lockers to over 4,000. The occupancy 
rate increased to 51% from 39%.
Since January 2007, Tim Houstoun has 
been focusing on the development of a 
global ParcelXchange leasing business which, 
through collaboration with an asset ﬁnance 
company, it is anticipated this will have no 
adverse effect on the Group’s cash ﬂow. This 
business has the potential to be proﬁtable 
next year.
This summer, Business Direct proposes to 
launch a B2C ParcelXchange product aimed 
at consumers ordering goods online.
In-Boot Delivery and Direct Vendor Trunking
In-Boot is a service that supplies direct into ﬁeld 
engineers’ vehicles during the night and collects 
returned parts, enabling the engineer to reduce 
overall mileage and increase productivity. 
Direct Vendor Trunking is an exclusively managed 
national delivery system which enables 
dedicated delivery and collection to major 
vendors and repair agents on a daily basis.
Overall sales of these services in the year 
were ﬂat. In the ﬁrst Interim announcement of 
28 September 2006, we explained that In-Boot 
business had been lost in the ﬁrst six months 
of the year following substantial price increases. 
These losses were halted in the second half 
and margins improved as a result of the price 
increases. The loss of In-Boot business has 
been offset by increased sales of Direct Vendor 
Trunking services. 
Specialist 
The principal services offered by the 
Specialist Division are Two-Man delivery, 
Same-day Urgent Delivery, national Next-day 
parcel delivery, Technical/Swap-out, and pick 
and pack warehousing.
In the year, Specialist turnover totalled £8.43m 
(2005: £9.07m). 
Two-Man Delivery
Two-Man delivery comprises pre-agreed 
time-speciﬁc delivery of large/high value 
equipment, such as computer rack 
systems, using skilled Two-Man teams 
and specialist vehicles. 
In the year, additional investment was made 
in the number of Two-Man teams and the 
business experienced substantial pro rata 
growth. This is expected to continue to 
be a growth area in the current year.
The number of ParcelXchanges increased to approximately 300 from 280 
and the number of individual lockers to over 4,000. The occupancy rate 
increased to 51% from 39%.


Business Direct 
proposes to launch 
a B2C ParcelXchange 
product aimed at 
consumers ordering 
goods online.
_1_BUS_ar06_front.indd   5 06/06/2007   16:12:30 06 Business Direct Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 06/07
Specialist continued
Same-day Urgent/Next-day Delivery
Same-day urgent and next-day delivery is a 
service trading principally in the northern Home 
Counties out of Business Direct’s Watford depot. 
In the year, the performance of the Same-day 
and Next-day delivery business was disappointing. 
Whilst this is a mature market, management 
believes that good returns are achievable. 
Martyn Wilson, who joined the board on 
28 March 2007, has signiﬁcant experience 
in this area and will be introducing a revenue 
growth programme.
Technical/Swap-out
Technical/Swap-out comprises the delivery 
of substantial volumes of electronic equipment 
to businesses, their on-desk set-up and the 
removal of old product in accordance with 
European legislation. The business also 
carries out line 1/line 2 call out on nationwide 
maintenance agreements. 
The investment in a sales specialist in the summer 
of 2006 is starting to produce positive results. 
This is expected to be a high growth opportunity 
in the current year.
Partsbank
Partsbank is the management of outsourced 
warehousing, comprising pick/pack and 
stock management.
In the year, revenue fell in this area, and efforts 
are underway to replace with higher margin 
opportunities such as strategic stock holding 
for our key clients, close to our national hub, 
allowing late cut-off times for critical parts.
Whilst remaining very conﬁdent in our abilities 
to achieve the proposed strategy, we are not 
unaware that the business faces risk from 
increasing interest rates, rising oil prices and 
competitor activity. However, the risk in relation 
to the latter is lessened by the unique nature 
of the ParcelXchange product, and in particular 
the sophistication of the software, posing 
a signiﬁcant barrier to those wishing to enter 
this arena.
Strategic review
In September, I initiated a Strategic Review to 
determine the direction of the group over the 
next three years. The principal conclusions from 
the review were that there were signiﬁcant growth 
opportunities in the ParcelXchange concept, 
in In-Boot and in the service offerings of the 
Specialist Division.
Chief executive’s review continued
Summary
  A new management team has been introduced to focus the business on achieving 
it’s full potential.
  Continued interest in the ParcelXchange product means increased occupancy 
and increased proﬁtability.
  Exciting new initiatives such as P .U.D.O, European Inbound and B2C will be launched 
in the coming year.
_1_BUS_ar06_front.indd   6 06/06/2007   16:12:44 07 Business Direct Group plc Annual report and ﬁnancial statements 06/07
In the domestic market, the demand for 
ParcelXchanges continues to grow with 
occupancy levels increasing and partnerships 
with major retailers a distinct possibility as 
they begin to appreciate the beneﬁts to the 
consumer of being able to collect purchases 
from convenient locations when they want to. 
Overseas, we identiﬁed opportunities to license 
the ParcelXchange concept to foreign operators 
such as national post ofﬁces, and under the 
stewardship of Tim Houstoun we have already 
made contact with several interested parties. 
Our In-Boot offering is particularly attractive to 
certain traditional industries, e.g. manufacturers 
of agricultural and mechanical handling 
equipment and we are actively exploring this 
as a way to grow proﬁts in this area.
Opportunities identiﬁed for the Specialist Division 
include expanding our T wo-Man Delivery Service 
to other market sectors e.g. Retail. In addition, 
by maintaining our excellent service levels and 
overall delivery standards, we believe we can 
become a major force in this area of expertise.
Prospects
After a period of signiﬁcant change, I am satisﬁed 
that the foundations have been laid to drive this 
business forward to enable it to realise its full 
potential as a leader in its chosen markets.
Summary
We have adopted the “people, service, proﬁt” 
culture, and consequently with the new 
management teams in place are now focused 
on providing exceptional service to our 
customers across the group. We believe 
this will lead to additional business from 
our existing customers who will in turn act 
as advocates for new customers.
I am delighted with progress so far, with our 
in night activities (ParcelXchange and In Boot) 
now performing at near Six Sigma levels 
consistently and Specialist Division fast 
approaching 99% on a daily basis. Whilst 
there is more to be accomplished in both 
divisions, particularly in IT and account 
management, I am conﬁdent that we will soon 
be offering unparalleled levels in the respective 
sectors of the logistics industry.
Paul Carvell
Chief executive
20 April 2007
In the domestic market, the demand for ParcelXchange continues to grow.


   2007
   £m
Turnover
ParcelXchange 7.5
Specialist 8.4
Total turnover   15.9
Revenue by division
_1_BUS_ar06_front.indd   7 06/06/2007   16:12:53
