 4 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
A company with big
ideas, substantial
cash flow and huge
potential.
Chairman’s 
statement
Michael Jackson
Chairman 5 PartyGaming Plc 
Annual report 2005
This annual report and accounts for the year ended 
31 December 2005 is PartyGaming Plc’s first. It has been 
a year of great progress and one in which several notable
milestones were reached. During the year for example, the
Group took wagers of more than $47 billion, dealt over 1 billion
hands of real money poker and generated revenues of close to
$1 billion. But, as I have learned during my short tenure as
Chairman since joining the Company in May 2005, this is 
nothing new for PartyGaming. This business moves at a rapid
pace, constantly adapting to changes and opportunities within
the marketplace.
The listing of PartyGaming’s shares on the London Stock
Exchange in June 2005 was one of the largest IPOs to take 
place in London for five years. Little more than two months 
after flotation, the Group was included in the FTSE 100 Index 
of leading companies by market value and is the only pure
internet company in the index.
Last year, revenues increased by 63%, Clean EBITDA climbed by
49% and Clean Earnings Per Share rose by 49%. This performance
was delivered by a highly talented and motivated workforce,
based in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London.
Our people
The Group’s 1,300 employees are focused on making 2006
another year of major progress. They have already raised 
the bar considerably by launching our fully integrated, 
Party-branded platform, including PartyPoker and PartyCasino,
in the first six weeks of 2006.
PartyGaming has undergone a major transformation from being
a small, entrepreneurial enterprise in 1997 to becoming today’s
world leader in online gaming. Customers in more than 190
countries and daily stakes wagered of more than $130 million
are just two statistics that show how big this business has
become. The Group has risen to the challenges created by such
rapid development and has retained the core attributes that
were critical to its early success. 
At the heart of this has been a determination to recruit and
retain the very best personnel which has been a consistent
feature from the beginning. Finding the right people with the
best skills and attitude has been central to PartyGaming’s
continued success. This philosophy has been extended to the
formation of the Board of Directors and I am delighted to have
fellow directors, all of whom bring a wealth of experience from 
a variety of different fields. 
We are saddened to be saying goodbye to Richard Segal, 
Chief Executive Officer, on or before 1 June 2006. Richard was
instrumental in leading PartyGaming through its successful IPO
and guiding it on its current course, one that has already
delivered strong financial results. Whilst Richard will be sorely
missed, the Board and the rest of his colleagues respect his
decision not to relocate his family to Gibraltar and we wish him
well for the future.
We are currently in the process of recruiting a new Chief
Executive Officer and in addition, a further independent 
Non-Executive Director.
Regulation
PartyGaming’s operations are licensed and regulated by the
Government of Gibraltar. The regulatory environment for online
gaming around the world is constantly changing with new rules
and regulations being considered in a number of territories
where we attract players. This is not surprising given that most
laws and regulations were not written with the internet in mind.
The Group continues to monitor closely developments regarding
any proposed regulatory changes around the globe and
remains committed to promoting a uniform international
regulatory framework for all online gaming. 
Responsible gaming
Responsible gaming is another area that the Group takes very
seriously, with PartyGaming being one of only a handful of online
gaming operators to have been certificated by GamCare. 
In this regard, the Group continues to strive to improve the
processes and systems in place to protect underage and other
vulnerable players.
Dividend 
Reflecting the Group’s strong financial performance in 2005, the
Board has recommended the payment of a final dividend of
5.25 cents per share that, if approved by shareholders at the
AGM on 4 May 2006, will be paid on 19 May 2006. 
Outlook
The financial results for 2005 were very encouraging and 
provide the Group with a solid platform on which to build in
2006. While the online gaming sector remains competitive, the
Group’s scale, market position and brand strength combine to
provide a solid foundation from which we can consolidate 
and extend our position in each of our core products and
geographic territories. 2006 has started strongly and your Board
remains excited about the Group’s prospects.
Final dividend The Group has
recommended its first dividend as 
a public company, which will be
the final dividend for the year
ended 2005, of 5.25 cents 
per share.
