 T ransforming  
our business
Grow mobile
Enhance our  
customer offer
Operational 
excellence
Grow in nationally 
regulated and/ or taxed 
markets
“Having announced our shift to a label-led approach in  
August 2014, we are now accelerating our transformation.  
This programme is already improving our operational 
effectiveness and customer focus, both of which are  
key drivers of our long-term financial performance, with  
particular opportunities flowing from the commercialisation  
of our technology through our new Studios business unit. ”
Norbert T eufelberger
Chief Executive Officer
22
bwin.party Annual report & accounts 2014
CEO’S REVIEW Overview
Betting volumes on sports and casino 
in our core nationally regulated and/or 
taxed markets were both up year-on-year , 
however total revenues and Clean EBITDA 
were lower than expected. This was 
largely due to further declines in poker 
that also held back casino and the full year 
impact of ISP blocking in Greece. 
Progress towards a European landscape 
of commercially viable and well-regulated 
markets continues, albeit more slowly 
than we would like. While several 
European countries are at various stages 
in developing what should prove to be 
reasonable regulatory frameworks, 
others have yet to do so. Such attributes 
are critical for long-term success as 
they ensure that both the regulatory as 
well as the fiscal objectives of national 
governments are capable of being met by 
licensed operators.
In the United States, the size of the online 
gaming market in New Jersey remains 
some way short of original expectations 
and whilst new bills introducing online 
gaming legislation have been published 
in California and Pennsylvania, there is 
little visibility on when or if these may 
be considered for the statute book. 
At the same time, proponents of a new 
federal initiative to ban all forms of online 
gaming across the United States are 
seeking support to get a bill passed in 
Washington DC.
As w e l l as r e g u l a t ory chan g es, dev e lop m en ts 
in technology continue to create new 
opportunities, as well as challenges for 
our business. Expanding our mobile 
footprint is an exciting source of potential 
revenue growth and we remain focused 
on growing our presence in all products 
and across all platforms, wherever 
commercially viable. While differing 
regulatory rules and compliance protocols 
present additional barriers to us both in 
expanding our international presence 
and introducing new and appealing game 
content, we have made good progress in 
this area. 
We are improving our digital marketing 
and customer relationship management 
(‘CRM’) capabilities through the 
introduction of powerful new tools that 
are opening up a raft of new opportunities 
for e-commerce companies like  
bwin.party . As a technology integrator we 
are able to use our comprehensive set of 
data sources to provide a detailed view 
of customer behaviour .  As we embed this 
into our operations, we can differentiate 
the quality of our offer through better 
customer experience, personalisation 
and improved performance management 
in an increasingly competitive 
digital landscape.
Our transition to a label-led, rather than 
product-led approach is almost complete 
and has already increased transparency 
and accountability throughout the Group, 
speeding-up our decision-making and 
improving the execution of our plans. 
Outside of our core gaming activities, we 
have made good progress on growing 
Kalixa, our digital payments business. 
Following the acquisition of PXP in May 
2014, we have secured a number of large 
third-party contracts and concluded an 
international joint venture with Millicom 
to exploit payment opportunities in Latin 
America and Africa. 
We are making good progress on the sale 
of our other non-core businesses and 
assets that we expect will realise between 
€30m and €50m in aggregate. 
Whilst the industry faces several 
headwinds in 201 5 in the form of 
additional gaming and indirect taxes, the 
absence of a major football tournament 
and further projected declines in the 
European poker market, the year ahead 
also offers some significant opportunities: 
we remain on-track to deliver €1 5m of 
additional cost savings this year through 
several initiatives that have already been 
implemented; we plan to launch under 
licence in two new territories later this 
year , both of which represent material 
markets for our business; we will continue 
to expand our mobile footprint, led by our 
bwin label but also through partycasino, 
partypoker and Foxy Bingo; we are 
revitalising our digital marketing and 
CRM through a programme of investment 
in both infrastructure and people; and 
we expect to secure additional B2B 
customers that should ensure that our 
Studios business unit becomes Clean 
EBITDA positive during 2016.
SPONSORSHIP
partypoker is a sponsor  
of the New Jersey Devils
23
Strategic  report Governance Financial performance  2014 – Operational highlights 
Operationally in 2014 we focused on 
continuing to expand our presence 
in nationally regulated and/or taxed 
markets, growing our mobile footprint 
as well as improving our operational 
performance through increased 
productivity and cost efficiencies.
Nationally regulated and/ or 
taxed markets
The proportion of the Group’s total 
revenue coming from nationally regulated 
and/or taxed markets increased to 56% in 
2014 versus 53% in 201 3. Having launched 
into New Jersey towards the end of 201 3, 
we sustained our network’s leadership 
position throughout the year and in 
December 2014 had a combined market 
share of 33%. In Belgium, another recent 
market entry , we also continued to make 
good progress growing revenue by 59% 
versus the prior year .
Mobile growth
Sports betting  
The launch of our new mobile sports 
offer (‘MS2’) helped to increase the share 
of gross sports betting revenue coming 
through mobile and touch devices to 
32% (201 3: 19%). However , the breadth of 
our geographic coverage masks the fact 
that in certain markets the proportion 
coming through mobile and touch is much 
higher . The annual figure also conceals 
the pace of growth throughout the year 
and in December 2014, mobile and touch 
represented approximately 35% of total 
sports betting gross gaming revenue. 
Casino & games  
Having added 32 new mobile games to 
our casino & games offer during 2014, we 
saw a marked uptick in the share of casino 
gross gaming revenue coming through 
mobile and touch that more than doubled 
from 6% in 201 3 to 14 % in 2014. 
Poker  
We launched single-table and then multi-
table tournaments on mobile that both 
contributed to a 126% increase in our 
mobile poker gross gaming revenues in 
2014 that represented 9% of the total, up 
from 3% in 201 3. With the advent of mobile 
devices with larger screens and increasing 
network speeds, mobile is proving to be 
an attractive channel for players.
Bingo  
As we reported at the time of the half year 
results, our Foxy Bingo mobile app has 
been particularly popular and we have 
seen a near trebling of bingo gross gaming 
revenue through mobile and touch in 
2014, accounting for approximately 24 % of 
total bingo gross gaming revenue in 2014, 
up from 6% in 201 3. 
Productivity and 
operational performance
Technology  
We successfully completed the migration 
of our French technology platforms in 
August 2014 resulting in improved poker 
liquidity for our network as well as the 
scope for cost savings as we began to 
decommission technologies that were 
no longer required. The absence of any 
major issues bodes well for the migration 
of our Italian platforms that will be 
completed this month and will also 
help to reduce costs as we close down 
legacy systems. This will complete the 
integration of platforms following the 
Merger . Our software release cycle has 
increased significantly during 2014 with 
a marked increase in automated testing 
and benefits from a much improved 
systems architecture.
Digital and mobile marketing  
Having embarked upon a significant 
investment in third party systems and 
infrastructure, we are improving our 
CRM and digital marketing capabilities 
with the goal of developing a single view 
of the customer irrespective of product 
or channel.
New label-led approach  
Our shift away from a product-led 
approach has allowed us to remove 
several layers of middle management 
whilst at the same time increase 
accountability for and visibility of projects 
that now reside within a single label. 
Whilst such a shift is not without risk (see 
Principal Risks on page 43), we are already 
seeing a marked increase in the speed 
of decision-making, improved execution 
as well as meaningful reduction in 
staff costs. 
POKER
We launched single-table and then 
multi-table tournaments on mobile 
that both contributed to an 126% 
increase in our mobile poker gross 
gaming revenues in 2014
BINGO
We have seen a significant increase of 
bingo gross gaming revenue through 
mobile and touch that represented 
24% of total bingo GGR in 2014
SPORTS BETTING
Mobile and touch represented 
approximately 32% of total sports 
betting gross gaming revenue in 2014. 
Further growth will be driven by the 
cross-selling of new products such as 
slider blackjack and slider roulette
CASINO & GAMES
Revenue coming through mobile 
and touch that more than doubled 
from 6% in 2013 to 14% in 2014
24
bwin.party Annual report & accounts 2014
CEO’S REVIEW CONTINUED 2014 – Other developments 
Industry structure
Increasing complexity , regulatory 
oversight and taxes mean that scale 
and technology have never been more 
important for long-term success. At the 
time of the half year results we stated our 
belief that the online gaming industry 
was set to enter a period of consolidation 
and that the Board believed bwin.party 
should be prepared to play an active role 
in any future reshaping of the industry , 
assuming further value can be delivered. 
We announced on 12th November 2014 
that we had entered into preliminary 
discussions with several third parties 
regarding possible business combinations 
to see if additional value could be created 
for shareholders. Since then there have 
also been some notable transactions 
which have occurred in the sector .
Further to the announcement in 
November , we continue to be in 
discussions with several parties 
regarding a variety of potential business 
combinations. Aware that there has been 
speculation regarding the status of these 
discussions in recent weeks, the Board 
can confirm that it has received a number 
of indicative proposals. T ogether with its 
advisers, the Board has entered a further 
stage of discussions with each party with 
a view to assessing the relative attractions 
of these proposals against the Board’s 
objective of creating additional value 
for shareholders. Whilst such proposals 
may or may not result in an offer being 
made for all or part of the Company , the 
Board confirms that as and when there 
are further material developments, it will 
make an appropriate announcement.
Payments
Having acquired PXP in May 2014, our 
Kalixa payments business continued 
to make solid progress during 2014. 
In September 2014 we announced the 
establishment of a 50:50 joint venture 
with Millicom, a leading international 
telecommunications and media company 
dedicated to emerging markets in Latin 
America and Africa so that we could 
seek to exploit Kalixa’s capabilities in 
both of these new and exciting markets. 
Since then, Kalixa has also succeeded in 
winning new third party business from 
customers including Abercrombie & Fitch 
and expects to secure further contract 
wins over the coming weeks.   
Disposal of non-core assets
H a v i n g a n n o u n ce d o u r i n t e n t io n t o f o c u s our 
resources on our core real money gaming 
business, we have made good progress 
since the year-end. On 20 February 201 5 
New Game Capital LP realised its only 
remaining investment through a placing 
of a 10.4 % stake in Gaming Realms plc. 
New Game Capital LP is now being wound 
up and the proceeds distributed to 
shareholders. As the largest shareholder 
in New Game Capital LP , the Group expects 
to receive approximately €4. 5m. 
Regulatory developments
The regulatory landscape across Europe 
and in the United States remains complex 
an d i s co n ti n u i n g to ev o lv e. A b ri e f s u m m ary 
o f some o f the k ey regu la tory developmen ts 
affecting our business is set out on pages 
41 and 42.
Impairment of intangible and 
other assets
In accordance with IAS 36, the Group 
regularly monitors the carrying value of 
its intangible assets and investments. 
A non-cash impairment charge of €104.4m 
(201 3: €9.4m) was taken relating to 
intangible assets within poker and social 
gaming, almost all of which was taken 
in the first half of 2014 and was included 
in the half year results and impairments 
of non-core investments including those 
held as available for sale.
Board changes
On 9 April 2014, Philip Y ea joined the 
Board as a Non-Executive Director and 
became Chairman at the AGM on 22 May 
2014 when Simon Duffy stepped down. 
Manfred Bodner stepped down as a 
Non-Executive Director at the AGM and on 
10 June 2014 Daniel Silvers was appointed 
a Non-Executive Director .  Daniel Silvers’ 
appointment was made under the terms 
of a relationship agreement entered into 
by amongst others, bwin.party , Emerald 
Bay Limited (‘Emerald’) and Stinson Ridge 
Limited (‘Stinson’) that was approved by 
shareholders on 28 January 2011 and to 
which SpringOwl Gibraltar Partners B 
Limited (‘SpringOwl’) became a party on 
28 February 2014 as a result of acquiring 
6% of bwin.party’s issued share capital 
from Emerald and Stinson together with 
the director nomination right.  SpringOwl 
exercised this nomination right on 
22 May 2014.  
In respect of the Company’s 
announcement on 16 May 2014 regarding 
Director changes and succession 
planning, the Board has announced the 
appointment of Barry Gibson and Liz 
Catchpole to succeed Rod Perry (Deputy 
Chairman, Senior Independent Director 
and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee) and Helmut Kern (Chairman 
of the Audit & Risk Committee), both of 
whom are retiring in accordance with 
the UK Corporate Governance Code. 
The Board’s Nomination Committee is also 
engaged with further candidates with 
extensive knowledge and expertise in 
information technology and in consumer-
facing digital businesses and hopes to 
announce an appointment shortly . 
25
Strategic  report Governance Financial performance  Dividend and share buy-back
The Board is recommending a final 
dividend of 1.89 pence per Ordinary 
share (201 3: 1.80 pence) representing a 5% 
increase over the prior year and making 
a total dividend payment for the 2014 
financial year of 3.78 pence (201 3: 3.60 
pence). The final dividend, if approved at 
the AGM will be payable to shareholders 
and depositary interest holders on the 
register of shareholders and register of 
depositary interest holders respectively 
on 24 April 201 5 (the ‘Record Date’). 
Dividends will be paid on 27 May 201 5. 
Shareholders wishing to receive dividends 
in Euros rather than Pounds Sterling 
will need to register a currency election 
with bwin.party’s registrars on or before 
8 May 201 5. 
Using the authorities granted by 
shareholders at the 201 3 and 2014 AGMs 
to repurchase up to 10% of the Company’s 
issued share capital, during 2014 the 
Company bought back 1,556,86 7 shares 
for cancellation at a total cost, including 
commission, of £1,579,437 . There have 
been no further purchases since the 
year end. As at 6 March 201 5 the total 
number of bwin.party shares in issue 
was 824,106,369 and the total number of 
voting rights in issue was 822,7 49,091 (total 
number of shares in issue minus 1,357 ,278 
shares held by the employee benefit trust 
in respect of which the voting rights have 
been waived).
Plans for 2015/2016
We remain focused on maximising both 
the accessibility and appeal of our gaming 
products and services and on striving to 
achieve operational excellence in each of 
our key business units. This will continue 
for the rest of 201 5 as we continue to 
improve our operational focus to deliver 
a great experience for our customers. 
As from 1 January 201 5 the business is now 
organised as follows:
• bwin labels (including Gamebookers);
• Games labels (partycasino, partypoker , 
Foxy Bingo, Gioco Digitale);
• US (including B2C, B2B and the World 
Poker T our);
• Studios The Group’s technology 
provided through arm’s length B2B 
agreements with both internal and 
external customers; and
• Other Includes Kalixa, social gaming, as 
well as Inter T rader , Winners and some 
smaller , non-core assets.
Shared and corporate functions such as 
finance, legal and HR are performed by 
the corporate centre. 
Establishing these new business units 
was the first step in transforming our 
operational performance and we are now 
accelerating this process with an even 
greater focus on core markets, channels 
and brands. 
T echnology will remain at the heart of 
this effort as we transform our Studios 
business into a stand-alone provider 
of B2B gaming services worldwide. 
Having built a fully-integrated and 
scaleable technology platform, with 
a proven capability of entering newly 
regulated markets with all products, 
we are now preparing to leverage this 
capability by driving incremental third 
party volume through the platform with a 
view to moving Studios into profit during 
2016. In addition to the Group’s own B2C 
labels, we are in the process of securing 
new B2B customers that are keen to use 
our technology , particularly for sports 
betting, which we believe represents 
a unique and valuable opportunity for 
the Group.
Having already exited a number of 
non-core businesses, we are continuing 
to review how value can be maximised 
for our Kalixa payments business that 
is making good progress following the 
acquisition of PXP in May 2014. As a result 
and given the increased focus on our 
core operations we have rationalised 
our strategic framework to the following 
three areas:
• focus our B2C operations on 
nationally regulated and/ or 
taxed markets;
• secure long-term strategic partners 
for our B2B business, driven by sports 
betting; and
• continue to act responsibly .
For further details regarding our business 
strategy see pages 28 and 29.
New segmental reporting 2014*
Year ended 31 December 2014
€m
bwin
labels 
Games
labels US Studios Non-core
Corporate
functions
Total  
segmental 
revenue
Removal of 
inter-segmental 
revenue 
Total 
revenue
Net revenue 360.6 195.7 6.7 – – – 563.0 – 563.0
Other revenue (external) 4.7 0.3 13.0 7.9 23.0 – 48.9 – 48.9
Other revenue (internal) – – 5.3 71.0 16.4 41.6 134.3 (134.3) –
T otal revenue 365.3 196.0 25.0 78.9 39.4 41.6 746.2 (134.3) 611.9
Clean EBITDA 76.4 69.8 (6.1) (18.0) (11.8) (9.1) 101.2 – 101.2
* 
Revenue and Clean EBITDA as if the new business units had been in place since 1 January 2014
26
bwin.party Annual report & accounts 2014
CEO’S REVIEW CONTINUED Using this new approach, each business 
unit has a clear set of objectives and 
operational KPIs for 201 5/16 that fall 
under one or more of the following 
four headings:
Increase B2C revenue from nationally 
regulated and/ or taxed markets
Each of our B2C business units are focused 
on achieving this goal. We plan to launch 
under licence in two new territories during 
201 5 as well as consolidate our position in 
other nationally regulated and/or taxed 
markets. Whilst a lack of new regulated 
markets opening over the past year has 
held back the pace at which we can make 
progress, we did increase the proportion 
of revenue coming from these markets to 
56% of total revenue in 2014 (201 3: 53%). 
KPI target: 
• Increase gross profit (net revenue less 
gaming taxes) from existing nationally 
regulated and/or taxed markets 
Grow mobile
Mobile represents a major growth 
opportunity for the Group.  The increase 
in smartphone penetration around the 
world in conjunction with improving 
connectivity is enabling huge growth 
in the amount of data consumed 
and time spent using these devices – 
mobile is where our customers want to 
consume  services, including gaming.  
Whilst the complexity of our international 
footprint, with its mosaic of regulatory 
regimes, presents additional hurdles, we 
are determined that each of our recently 
upgraded products is available on the very 
latest mobile and touch devices, wherever 
commercially viable, during 201 5.
KPI target: 
• 50% of gross gaming revenue 
coming through mobile/touch by 
December 201 5
Enhance the quality and breadth  
of our customer offer
As outlined in the Review of 2014 below, 
we have already increased the appeal  
of our products with significant 
improvements to our offer across each 
of our own labels and those of our B2B 
customers. However , this journey is 
only just beginning and we plan a raft of 
additional product upgrades and new 
features during 201 5. A release programme 
of new games and features on mobile as 
well as desktop will continue throughout 
the rest of the year , complemented by 
improved CRM and digital marketing. 
KPI targets: 
• Continue to add new content  
through a variety of channels
• Secure additional B2B customers  
for our Studios business unit
Operational excellence – reliability 
and productivity
Each of our objectives above cannot 
be achieved without continuing to 
improve our operational performance 
and allocation of capital. Our shift to 
a new label-led structure needs to be 
accompanied by a shift in working 
practices that combine to increase our 
focus on the customer . Through greater 
transparency and accountability , this 
shift will also help us to realise €1 5m of 
additional cost savings already identified. 
KPI targets: 
• Deliver €1 5m of cost savings 
as planned
• Improve system availability and  
reduce planned downtime
• Maximise the value of non-core 
business via divestment or 
strategic partnerships
Current trading and  
full year outlook 
T rading in the first eight weeks of 201 5 has 
been broadly in-line with our expectations. 
While betting volumes as well as overall 
player activity on sports and gaming 
(excluding poker) have been above last 
year , lower margins in sports betting and 
casino meant that average daily net 
revenue was down 12% year-on-year .
New gaming and other indirect taxes, 
continued pressures in European poker 
and the absence of a major football 
tournament this year represent significant 
headwinds in 201 5. However , the steps 
taken during 2014 to reduce costs, the 
early results from some of our recent 
product launches and other initiatives 
mean that we remain confident about  
the full year outlook. 
Norbert T eufelberger
Chief Executive Officer
27
Strategic  report Governance Financial performance 
