 Chief Executive’s review
We have defined a clear path for our business based around key
trends in customer demand and the rapid shift in technology.
It is key to our success to manage margins in traditional services
and to be able to invest for profitable growth in new services.
In 2005 we made solid progress in strengthening Cable & Wireless’
competitive position:
– we have focused the Group on markets where we have a
relevant presence and can develop and maintain a sustainable
position;
– we completed the US exit and the sale of our domestic
business in Japan;
– we committed to invest £190 million over three years in a 
UK Next Generation Network to increase competitiveness 
and enhance financial performance;
– we focused National T elcos to compete in the growth areas 
of mobile and broadband and continue to reduce costs;
– we reshaped our UK business into four customer-focused
segments, Enterprise, Business, Carrier Services and Bulldog,
each led by experienced telecom professionals; and
– in May 2005 we completed the first phase of Bulldog’s
unbundling programme to cover 30 per cent of UK 
households, just a year after acquisition.
We streamlined central management and relocated our head office
to Bracknell, reflecting our reduced cost base and a culture where
the centre drives performance across the Group.Worldwide we 
are a leaner organisation, in line with our aim to be the lowest cost
provider in all our markets.
Industry context
The telecoms industry is experiencing profound structural changes.
There are common challenges and opportunities across the Group
that have shaped our strategic priorities. Revenues from traditional
services continue to decline, so we must protect margins by further
forcing down costs.At the same time, we are pursuing growth.As
new broadband, IP and mobile services replace legacy services we
are investing to win customers in these highly competitive growth
areas.
UK Group
Our UK operations are focused around the customer segments of
Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.At present, 67 per cent
of our revenues in the UK are generated by switched voice services,
however, we have adopted targeted strategies for each customer
segment as they migrate to new technologies.These customers are
also supported by our operations in Europe,Asia, and the US.
Focusing on margin 
and investing in profitable
growth
Profile
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Officer 8/9 2005 Annual Report
Chief Executive’s review
Enterprise
Enterprise provides integrated telecommunication services to large
corporations and central government departments.The convergence
of voice, data and internet access on IP-based services is reshaping
the way many businesses operate. Migrating to IP offers lower costs
and more sophisticated services, such as video-streaming, multi-party
conferencing and remote access into corporate IT systems.
Enterprise won a number of new contracts with major customers.
Although our current revenue is still generated primarily by traditional
services – which are subject to continued decline – we have made
solid gains in winning IP business, which now accounts for 13 per
cent of Enterprise turnover.
Cable & Wireless has the network and the capabilities to support
our biggest customers as they make the transition to new generation,
IP-based technologies.
Business
Business addresses a market that includes a wide range of customers.
In the last year we have focused on the top end of the segment and
saw new business wins with Damovo, easyJet, Lothian Health Board
and Littlewoods. Overall, however, revenue was reduced by severe
competition. Pressure on revenues in legacy services has been higher
than in Enterprise reflecting the fact that, as many customers only
buy switched voice, they have higher price sensitivity and propensity
to switch.
Take-up of IP is growing among our small business customers.We
are developing a new portfolio of packaged and bundled products
such as Intelligent Voice and Straight Talk.The services, including IP ,
are being designed for ease of implementation and use.
Carrier Services
Cable & Wireless has worldwide coverage across 200 countries and
is one of the world’s largest carriers of international voice and data.
Carrier Services generates 45 per cent of UK revenue and operates
in a highly competitive market that continues to suffer from over-
capacity and declining margins, although these have been partially
offset by increased volumes. Our innovative customer solutions have
won notable contracts.We now enable the Post Office to provide 
a fixed phone line service, and won an international termination
deal with Skype, the Voice over IP (“VoIP”) operator for which 
we now transport around 100 million minutes a year. This year 
we will expand our services to international customers by offering
wholesale VoIP . By taking a Group-wide view of network assets,
Carrier Services aims to improve utilisation of our international
network.
We continue to develop new services for mobile carriers and
launched MMX, a platform to exchange pictures and multimedia
messages developed with Vodafone.We operate one of the largest
Global 3G roaming exchanges and support email roaming for a
third of the world’s mobile networks.We also launched our Global
Carrier multi-protocol label switching (“MPLS”) service, which can
transmit any type of traffic in IP format, including time-sensitive and
business-critical information and we have already signed up eight
significant carriers.
Revenue declined following a fall in mobile termination rates,
imposed on all carriers in the UK by Ofcom, but had no impact on
profits. In Europe we downsized and refocused on the demands of 
a customer base of fewer, larger clients.
Bulldog
The acquisition in May 2004 of Bulldog, the broadband operator,
was an important step in advancing our UK access strategy.
Local loop unbundling (“LLU”) strengthens our presence in the
valuable access network, while Bulldog’s appeal to the residential
and small/home office market (the so-called SoHos) broadens 
our UK customer base.This additional traffic increases use of the
existing core network and can, in future, migrate very simply to 
our Next Generation Network.
Through LLU, Bulldog puts its own equipment inside BT’s local
exchanges to take control of the “last mile” copper link (the “local
loop”) into the customer’s home or office.Access to this last mile
improves our end-to-end control of the network resulting in lower
outpayments to BT and, hence, higher gross margins. It also allows
us to innovate, differentiate and control the end-to-end quality of
our services to business and residential customers.
LLU enables Cable & Wireless to redefine its position in the
telecom industry away from the alternative network model.We
have the capability, the core network, and the funding to exploit
unbundling. LLU enables us to make the most of these advantages
to differentiate our business from our competitors.
Our unbundling programme has made rapid progress.We reached
our initial target of 400 exchanges in May 2005, seven months ahead
of the original timetable.The Bulldog team, under its new Chief
Executive, is now progressing with plans to extend its UK coverage
and intends to unbundle an additional 200 exchanges by March 2006
and a further 200 exchanges in the first half of 2006/07 bringing the
total number of exchanges unbundled to 800. This will increase
planned investment and start-up losses in 2005/06. Over the next three years UK voice and data traffic will continue
to migrate to IP . Cable & Wireless has the scale to lead this
transformation. Our infrastructure size, combined with the efficiency
of putting all traffic onto a single IP-based core network, will deliver
significant economies. Our Next Generation Network will offer
customers greater functionality and customised solutions, at an
attractive price.The benefit for Cable & Wireless will be lower
operating and maintenance costs, and a more flexible network 
that can accommodate significant growth in traffic at a much lower
capital cost, offering the potential to achieve a higher margin.
Ofcom
The regulatory framework is fundamental to our business and our
investment decisions.The strategic review by Ofcom, the telecom
and media regulator, provides an opportunity to create a more
transparent and effective regulatory regime in areas where BT 
still controls access to customers.The promised level playing field
must become a reality. Establishing the appropriate structure and
processes to obtain equality of access to BT’s local loop assets will
enable the market to take the lead in setting prices for products
and services where there is already competition.
We are encouraged by Ofcom’s emphasis on infrastructure-based
competition.We are also pleased that the regulator has adopted the
principle of equivalence as the tool to deliver parity in the market.
Successfully implemented, this would require BT to offer regulated
products to competitors at exactly the same price and quality of
service as it does to BT’s own businesses.There should be no
discrimination between non-BT customers and BT’s own operations
when purchasing products such as wholesale broadband capacity
and call origination. Our recent experience has shown considerable
room for improvement in, for example, BT’s co-operation over local
loop unbundling.
It is critical that equivalence is designed into BT’s planned 21st
Century Network so that new barriers to entry are not created by
BT’s migration to next generation systems. Fair infrastructure-based
competition must be at the heart of the UK telecoms market if
customers are to benefit from the variety of services that new
technologies can offer and the UK is to recapture its pre-eminent
position as a business location.
Bulldog’s dual super-fast 4Mbps broadband and voice telephony
offer attracted early customer enthusiasm in the residential and SoHo
markets and we quickly followed this with the release of 8Mbps
across all 400 exchanges.As the roll-out progresses we have
supported it with a broader commercial marketing programme.
With the largest non-incumbent telecom network in the UK, our
new end-to-end infrastructure has offered customers a real choice
of total fixed voice and broadband provider for the first time.
Bulldog has similar characteristics to a start-up in the early days of
mobile; it is marketing led, innovative, and offers customers a fast,
convenient, good value service. For clarity of management and
transparency, we are therefore reporting the results of Bulldog
separately in our segmental analysis.
Next Generation Networks and Operations
In all our markets, we are an infrastructure-based competitor.
Control of our own network is a key source of competitive
advantage through which we can provide high-quality, cost-effective
innovative services.The creation last year of an integrated
management structure for network systems and operations has
enabled us to enhance quality of service, identify investment
priorities, reduce hand-offs and target cost reductions.
We have carried out a review of our existing UK network, and
launched a programme to address operating costs, interconnection
costs and loading.The first phase of this programme will cut costs
by £50 million in 2006 enabling us to mitigate, to some extent, the
continuing effects of price pressure.
The network review also demonstrated the significant benefits 
of moving to an IP-based Next Generation Network architecture,
and the associated IT systems and processes. In April we announced
investment of £190 million over three years to transform our core
UK network into a single integrated IP platform, carrying voice, data
and internet services.
This decision was driven by the shift in demand in all customer
segments towards IP-based products, and the rapid advance in IP
technologies.The development of new services will be supported
by Bulldog’s expanding broadband access network, which will feed
traffic into the IP core.We expect our new IP architecture to be
in place by the end of 2008.
A large proportion of the anticipated £190 million capital
expenditure on our Next Generation Network will replace
expenditure that would otherwise have been needed to maintain
our legacy system, leaving a net increase in planned investment 
over the three years of £35 million.
Profile 10/11 2005 Annual Report
Chief Executive’s review
National T elcos
Cable & Wireless is the market leader in integrated fixed, broadband
and mobile services in 34 countries. Our National Telcos have
delivered solid results in the context of an increasingly liberalised
environment.As at 31 March 2005 88 per cent of our National
T elco revenues were generated by companies operating in liberalised
markets although not all of these are yet fully competitive. Revenues
increased by 10 per cent due to good performances in Panama and
Rest of the World and the acquisition of Monaco Telecom. Mobile
revenues grew by 26 per cent and data and IP revenues grew by 
13 per cent year on year. (All revenue changes are expressed at
constant currency.)
Our new leadership team aims to take advantage of the National
Telcos’ breadth of operations.We believe that this increased cross-
business co-operation, and sharing of knowledge and expertise
across our geographies, will continue to sharpen performance.
Our National Telcos’ markets are at different stages of liberalisation.
Each has its own customer profile but the competitive challenges
they face are similar, and so must be the response:
– reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are 
under pressure;
– investing further in the key growth services of broadband,
IP and mobile; and
– developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the
competition.
In broadband and IP we are leaders in most of our markets and 
are investing to meet growing demand. Many of the countries in
which we operate still have relatively low take-up of broadband and
IP services, and we are well positioned to offer services that assist
customers in the transition.We have started to invest in IP
backbones in countries where traffic volumes justify the
expenditure, including in the Caribbean where hurricane damage
has accelerated infrastructure replacement. Upgrades are underway
in Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Across all the National Telcos, we have established tight financial
discipline and control over investment.This has sharpened our 
focus on initiatives that produce results.We intend to expand
broadband and mobile services and this strategy will determine 
our investment decisions.
The future
Over the last two years we have created a more focused and
streamlined platform, better equipped to face the challenges and
opportunities from the rapidly transforming telecommunications
industry.
Our markets will remain very challenging, but I believe that we 
can build on our early achievements. In the UK, our reorganisation
will sharpen our customer focus and strengthen our competitive
position.The investment in Bulldog and our Next Generation
Network will further distinguish us from other UK operators.
In our overseas businesses, we will strive to maintain profitable
market leadership.
Francesco Caio
Chief Executive Officer
