 Chairman’s statement
The past 12 months have been a time of transition as Cable &
Wireless entered a new phase in the three-year programme to
revive the Group. By the end of the year, the Chief Executive and
his new team were no longer preoccupied with the Group’s past,
and had turned confidently to face the future.
A year of transition
Over the past year, management has delivered on the promises it
made in June 2003.We completed our exit from the US market at
considerably lower cost than originally expected.This allowed the
Chief Executive to concentrate on the restructuring of our UK
business and on defining a path to a sustainable position in this
market.An enormous amount of work has gone into improving
operations and tightening cost controls in the legacy businesses.
Customer focus has been central to our new structures.
We are also seeing some excellent groundwork in network
development.A prime example is our investment in Bulldog, the 
UK broadband operator we acquired last May. Bulldog gives us
network access across the “last mile” to the customer, enabling 
us to offer an end-to-end service in competition with BT. Building
our customer base in this way is an important goal as we embark
upon investment of £190 million over three years in our UK 
IP-based Next Generation Network.This new technology offers
network economies that will benefit our customers and improve
our margins. In this context, we welcome Ofcom’s vision of a UK
telecommunications market based on realistic and sustainable
competition among players willing to invest in future 
technological strength.
Our financial disciplines and continued cost reduction have created
a stable framework so that Cable & Wireless can move forward.
Since November, a corporate reorganisation has refocused our
activities on the key customer segments at the heart of our business.
We are now well-placed to exploit rising global demand for
broadband, IP and mobile services across the whole market, from
large multinational corporations to residential users.
Outside the UK, our National Telcos have become more aggressive
in dealing with competition. Co-operation and communication
have also improved between our operations, so that these
businesses can benefit from each others’ experiences of the rapidly
liberalising telecom landscape.We are successfully capitalising on the
controlling stake in Monaco Telecom acquired a year ago, and will
take opportunities to expand our footprint into new geographies
as appropriate.
The exit from the US and disposal of our Japanese business kept
our cash intact, which allowed us, in November 2004, to launch 
a £250 million share buyback.As at March 2005 we had bought
back 60.5 million shares, at an average price of 124.4 pence.
– Turnaround programme on track
– Revenue from continuing operations
stable at constant currency
– Launch of £250 million share 
buyback programme
– Initiated £190 million investment in 
Next Generation Networks
– Targeted National Telcos investment 
in broadband, IP and mobile
Profile
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 6/7 2005 Annual Report
Chairman’s statement
Results and dividend
The 2005 financial performance demonstrates our progress. Profit
before taxation and exceptional items for continuing operations,
for the year ended 31 March 2005, was £361 million. Revenue 
from continuing operations at £3,023 million, was stable at constant
currency compared to 2004.
The Board has recommended a full year dividend of 3.8 pence 
per share, after paying 1.16 pence per share at the interim stage.
This represents a 21 per cent increase in the total dividend,
indicating our confidence in the Group.
The Board
The Board was strengthened during the year. In July, George
Battersby joined the executive team as Group Human Resources
Director and in December, Harris Jones was appointed as Executive
Director, International Businesses.We also appointed three new
Non-executive Directors, Kate Nealon,Agnès T ouraine and Clive
Butler.Their combined experience has significantly broadened the
skills of our Board as we undertake the next stage of the Group’s
transformation. Kevin Loosemore resigned from the Board on 
1 December 2004 and left Cable & Wireless at the end of the
financial year, we would like to thank him for his contributions.
Dr Janet Morgan retired from the Board in July 2004 having served
16 years during which time her contribution has been considerable,
and for which we thank her.
On page 35, our senior Non-executive Director reports on the 
four key aspects of good corporate governance. I am pleased to
report that Cable & Wireless continues to operate governance 
to high standards.
Our team
Cost-cutting and corporate reorganisation has inevitably been
unsettling for staff, and I want to thank our management and
employees for meeting the challenges so far with resilience and
determination.Their contribution has enabled us to strengthen 
our business for the future.
Looking ahead
Our markets continue to suffer from excess capacity and severe
price competition. Performance improvement will come from
efficiencies and cost-cutting, and a shift in our sales mix towards
broadband, IP and mobile.We are in a unique position to help 
our customers embrace these new technologies and I look 
forward with confidence to the year ahead.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
