 Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Harris Jones
Group Managing
Director, International
International business
Group Managing Director, International’s review
– A solid set of results for International
– Revenue up by 6%
– EBITDA up by 6%
– Mobile customers increased by 22%
– Broadband customers increased by 97%
– Net cash inflow before financing of 
£363 million
I am pleased to report a solid set of financial results for 
Cable & Wireless International for the year ending 31 March 2006.
Our unrelenting focus on our mobile and broadband growth
prospects, supported by tight management of our operating costs,
have contributed to these results.
We are the pre-eminent integrated telecoms provider for small to
medium sized economies and both the first choice for customers
and a key partner for governments in virtually all of our 33 markets
around the world.
Following progressive liberalisation over the past five years, 93% of
our revenues are generated in competitive environments, dispelling
any myth that our businesses are monopolies in under-developed
telecoms markets. With each year, our appetite for competition
grows and we continue to invest in technology, our brand and our
people in order to increase our market share.
Over the last year, our overall revenues increased by 6% (at
constant currency) to £1,212 million with strong year-on-year
growth in mobile revenues (up 17%) and broadband revenues 
(up 72%).
In mobile, we are the market leader in 18 out of 22 of our mobile
markets and in the past year, despite increasing competition, we
have seen our customer base increase by 22%.
I am particularly pleased to report that we are seeing dramatic
improvements in our mobile market share in Jamaica – after it fell
following the introduction of competition in 2002. With new
mobile competition in many of our markets, we are robust in our
defence of market share and have seen particularly strong mobile
performance in the Maldives, St. Kitts and Guernsey.
In broadband, we have seen a 72% increase in revenue and 97%
increase in customer base and, in several markets, penetration
statistics exceed those of the UK. We are the market leader in all
the 21 markets where we offer broadband. We continue actively to
drive down prices and increase speeds in all of our markets and
believe that broadband is critical to our customer relationships 
and success.
Like nearly all global telecoms operators, we face challenges in our
fixed line business where voice margins are under pressure from
mobile substitution. International fixed line prices continue to fall
and we anticipate that this decline will continue with VoIP becoming
more commonplace – our own VoIP product introductions have
been well received.
Our focus on controlling staff and other costs resulted in a
reduction of 4%. This occurred against a backdrop of a blended
inflation rate of 4%.
EBITDA increased year-on-year by 6% to £417 million, equivalent to
an EBITDA margin of 34%. Operating profit, including our share of
profits from associate and joint venture companies, increased by 3%
to £333 million.
10 2005/06 Annual report Over the last year, we have repositioned the International business
to ensure we are best placed to deliver an unrivalled customer
experience and help governments deliver their economic
development agendas. We continue to manage the portfolio’s
profitability to generate cash and deliver value for our shareholders.
I am delighted that Lord Robertson of Port Ellen has taken the
position of Non-executive Chairman of Cable & Wireless International,
bringing with him a wealth of experience and a deep understanding 
of international affairs. T ogether Lord Robertson and I have increased
management capability by developing a strong operating board for
Cable & Wireless International and appointing a number of new CEOs
and CFOs across the business in the past year.
We are leveraging the opportunities that our global scale presents:
we have a common billing infrastructure in place across 21 of our
markets (with more to follow) which is enabling us to converge our
mobile, fixed and broadband propositions; internal benchmarking is
in place across our networks, IT and finance functions so that we
can accelerate the transfer of best practice around our portfolio.
This visibility provides our leadership with an accurate view of our
performance trends and gives me confidence in our future.
We continue to grow mobile and broadband share by making sure
that the customer is at the heart of every decision we make. By
managing costs and generating cash, we are developing a platform
from which to expand our business footprint.
This year has seen a number of steps towards inorganic growth.
In the Seychelles, we have acquired the country’s largest internet
service provider – enabling us to offer an integrated service to
customers there – and in Jersey, we are preparing to launch a new
mobile service to compete with the incumbent Jersey Telecom.
I am personally looking forward to playing the role of challenger!
These are exciting times for Cable & Wireless International.
In October, we celebrate the 25th anniversary of CTM (our
business in Macau) and we are proud to be sponsoring the 
ICC Cricket World Cup 2007 in the Caribbean.
Our position as the only full-service telecoms provider in the
majority of our markets means that we are well placed to capitalise
on the acceleration towards integrated communication solutions.
I believe that the technology pendulum is swinging our way and 
we intend to make the most of it.
Harris Jones
Group Managing Director, International
2005/06 Annual report 11
International business International business
Overview
Where we are
Our International business operates telecommunications companies
in 33 countries, offering mobile, broadband, domestic and
international fixed line services to residential and business
customers. Our principal operations are in the Caribbean, Panama,
Macau, Monaco and the Channel Islands.
Our ownership of these companies is varied – some are wholly
owned and others are partly owned with the public, the local
government or other corporate partners. Our 33 businesses
comprise 24 subsidiaries and 9 joint ventures and associates.
In virtually all our markets, we are the leading and incumbent
telecommunications provider – 93% of our revenues are generated
in markets open to competition.
Due to the diversity of our markets in terms of size, geography or
culture, we treat each business individually by tailoring our services
to the relevant market – but with the benefit of our scale and a
global network.
Across our markets, we face broadly the same issues. New
technologies are driving down the price of existing offerings. At the
same time, liberalisation has seen new entrants seeking to challenge
our position and driving price erosion as they compete aggressively.
Additionally, we are dealing with continuing developments in
regulatory and government policy.
We are meeting the challenge of increased competition head on 
by ensuring that we provide the best possible quality, value and
innovative services to our customers. This means that we must
respond to other operators and, with new technologies being
introduced all the time, continuously improve to stay ahead.
Where we want to be
Our ambition is to be the first choice for customers and the first
choice partner for governments in delivering their economic
development agenda.
We will do this by investing in technology, our brands and 
our people.
Key to achieving this is growing our mobile and broadband offering
whilst sustaining our fixed line revenues and ensuring we deliver the
excellent levels of service our customers desire and deserve – it is
what will lead customers to choose us and remain with us and it
goes much deeper than simply having competitive pricing plans 
in place.
So what does this mean in practice?
Firstly, we recognise that it is important to get the basics right so we
are improving the quality and speed of all of our services – as well
as the reliability and performance of our networks.
Secondly, we are providing our customers with quick and easy ways
to access our services by developing new distribution channels and
self-provisioning packages for broadband and increasing the
availability of online bill payment.
The ability to anticipate and respond to our customers’ needs
enables us to compete more effectively. We believe that the future
of our telecoms services is in offering integrated communications
solutions – and that our fixed line infrastructure is a vital component
of this.
We are already developing business VoIP solutions and looking 
to package our fixed services with our mobile and broadband
propositions where appropriate. The development of value-added
propositions and download and content strategies for both mobile
and broadband should ensure that our services stay apace with
customer trends.
Driving complexity out of our operations is a priority. For example,
we are looking to streamline our business processes and systems
and continue to identify consolidation opportunities in the areas of
purchasing, supply chain, IT and networks. This will reduce our costs
and allow us to redirect our resources to deliver for our customers.
Our capital expenditure aligns with our strategic objectives of
growth in mobile and broadband and focuses on target initiatives
that generate the maximum return on our investment. We seek 
to ensure quality and reliability of service in all of our markets by
investing in the maintenance and upgrades of our networks. Key
initiatives over the previous financial year have been significant
investment in Panama’s mobile network and roll-out of the
broadband network in Jamaica. In addition, we've continued to
maintain and improve our fixed network infrastructure. We will
continue to invest in all of our platforms in order to underpin our
growth aspirations.
All this is brought to life by our people. T o deliver the experience
our customers deserve, we have to have the right people in the
right jobs. This means recruitment, development programmes and
succession planning to ensure that we are well placed to deliver.
Products and services
Our products and services span domestic and international voice
and data (fixed line) services, mobile and broadband.
In this increasingly competitive environment, developing brands that
have local resonance is key to our commercial strategy. Alongside
our Cable & Wireless brand, we have a mix of local brands such 
as CTM in Macau, Monaco Telecom, Dhiraagu in the Maldives and
bMobile across the Caribbean for our mobile proposition.
Mobile
We provide mobile services in 22 markets – and continue to invest
significantly. Our mobile data services include high-speed data, email,
internet, picture messaging and other business and consumer
content directly to mobile devices. We are testing enhanced
services like TV and video streaming via mobile handsets in Macau
and Monaco.
Broadband
Our investment in broadband infrastructure and marketing is
meeting the growing demand for our services. Improving access 
via a range of distribution channels, as well as continually upgrading
our network to increase speeds and enhance our services have all
12 2005/06 Annual report Our work in our local communities
We recognise the positive role we can play in promoting economic
and social development in our local communities. Accordingly, the
ways in which we do business, develop our people, treat the
environment and interact with these communities are important 
to our continued development.
Community investment
With a particular emphasis on working with the younger generation,
we have established a number of charitable foundations, for example,
in Jamaica, Panama and the Seychelles. T otal charitable donations
made by Cable &Wireless International during the year were 
£2.3 million.
The digital divide
We’re committed to assisting governments in their development
programmes by providing internet access for public services like
schools, universities and hospitals – as well as working to provide
residential access to all sections of the population.
In Macau, our ‘i.Campus’ Student Broadband Award provides free
broadband services to selected primary and secondary students.
Meanwhile, in Grenada, we partner with the Grenada Rural
Enterprise Project to give broadband access to, and improve
computer literacy in, communities around the island.
Community involvement
We were delighted to win a Social Responsibility Award in Panama
for our work with the University of Panama. Meanwhile, on the
back of our sponsorship of the ICC Cricket World Cup 2007, and
as part of our ongoing commitment to Caribbean grass-roots
cricket, we have donated over 20 moveable pitches to local
organisations across the region to make cricket more accessible,
nurture talent and help to build excitement in the months leading
to the World Cup.
Healthy communities
In the Seychelles, we provided the local charity CARE with the
funding to provide educational material to schools on the dangers
of taking heroin. In Jamaica, we made contributions to a number 
of local charities including the Jamaica Cancer Society, the Dare to
Care Children's Home and St.Aloysius Primary School.
contributed to this. The growth of VoIP services led us to launch
our own product in the Cayman Islands, and, following its success,
we have started to roll this out in our other markets.
Traditional fixed line
Our fixed networks carry voice and data services and also provide
broadband connectivity. We continue to invest in the maintenance
and improvement of our fixed network infrastructure and develop
appealing propositions for our customers, such as the launch of 
new pre-pay fixed line services.
Regulatory environment
In recent years, virtually all our markets have been opened up to
competition. Typically, this has resulted in significant reductions of
international prices, partially offset by rebalancing in favour of
domestic call prices. Intensifying competition has normally followed
the initial market liberalisation, resulting in further pressure on prices.
Generally, we have also seen growth in mobile and broadband
services following liberalisation.
2005/06 Annual report 13
International business
