 John Pluthero
Group Managing
Director, UK
UK business
Group Managing Director, UK’s review
– Acquisition of Energis completed on
11 November 2005
– Integration of Cable & Wireless and
Energis completed
– Key operational metrics, including
customer numbers, operating cost run
rate and service improvement in 
line with targets
I began the last financial year running Energis – a business that was
largely through its own turnaround and facing the challenge of how
it could move into the next generation of technologies and services.
I ended the year running the UK business unit of Cable & Wireless 
– a business that has only just started its turnaround but whose
prospects for that future world are as clear and tangible as they 
are exciting.
The acquisition of Energis, completed on 11 November 2005
marked a transition. The work of Richard Lapthorne and Francesco
Caio until then was to systematically remove those obstacles to our
future success like the exit of unsustainable markets and to put in
place the strategic pillars for the future.
Francesco’s handsome legacy for the UK is a business of significant
scale (hence the Energis acquisition), of market leadership in local
loop unbundling (hence Bulldog) and a commitment to Next
Generation Networks (‘NGN’) (£190 million committed in 
April 2005).
These three components combine to provide the tools with which
we can create the first built-for-purpose next generation telecoms
company. That was the vision then – and it’s the vision now.
That vision requires some explaining. For too long now, fixed line
telecoms companies have bellyached about price erosion, over
capacity and escalating costs. The truth is – it’s our own fault. We
have taught customers that price is the only criterion for selection
because service has been poor. Our cost base is high because we
run multiple technology platforms and billing systems, all because
past strategies were too opportunistic and defensive. Those days are
over. With our big building blocks of scale, local loop and NGN, we
can fashion a company that will lead the market in the quality and
breadth of the way it supports its customers as they seek to exploit
the new functionality and economics of the new technologies.
No part of our business will look the same in the future as it does
now. The products and services we provide will change, the way 
we sell them will change, how they are provisioned and supported
will change and our entire support function will morph to
accommodate those changes. We will need new skills and a new
culture. Above all, our financial performance will change.
And so we begin this next phase – to build that company. It is a big
task – full of complexity, interdependence and with many moving
parts. We are, however, well equipped to take on this challenge.
We have great customers, a capable team, the benefit of a full dress
rehearsal in Energis and towering ambition.
Our approach to this task reflects the reality of our business 
and marketplace.
T o begin with, we had to integrate the two businesses, old 
Cable & Wireless and Energis – a programme that is complete.
So now, the full recovery work can really kick in: shedding those
parts of our business which are not part of our future, improving
our service performance and driving out costs. Our final phase is
transformation – taking our leaner, fitter business into the future 
with a new integrated infrastructure and a disciplined approach to
18 2005/06 Annual report making money. All told, our journey will last four to five years. In the
four and a half months since acquisition, we’ve made good progress,
in fact we’re right on plan, already delivering annualised cost savings
in excess of £50 million. In line with our focus on fewer, larger
customers, we have begun reducing our customer base and have
already given notice to over 9,000 customers and we have reduced
headcount of the combined businesses by 1,474. Overall, we
expect to reduce headcount to between 2,500 and 3,500 over the
next three to five years.
We have built a strong management team which is in the process of
developing a customer-centric, execution-obsessed culture across
our business – and importantly, our service is improving – we have
cut delivery times and introduced new service-based products
allowing our customers to choose the level of service to suit. This
approach has helped Royal Bank of Scotland, one of our major
customers, to award us its ‘best technology supplier’ award and our
Irish business to be short-listed for an ICT excellence award for best
telecommunications company.
All of this has a clear output. We will become known for quality
services and employing great people who are obsessive about
customers, developing into the first choice partner for the largest
users of telecoms in the UK and internationally.
Combined, these factors will secure robust, consistent financial
performance that will ultimately result in £2 billion revenues and
double digit operating margin.
John Pluthero
Group Managing Director, UK
2005/06 Annual report 19
UK business UK business
Overview
The UK business serves the largest users of telecoms services
across the UK, continental Europe,Asia and the US – and broadband
services in the UK through Bulldog.
T o date, there has been little overlap between the UK corporate
and Bulldog businesses. However, as we move into 2006/07, we aim
to use the local loop investment in Bulldog to further our corporate
access strategy.
UK corporate business
Where we are
We provide our customers with a rich portfolio of services, but
have a particular focus on helping them successfully manage the
difficult migration from many different legacy telecom platforms to
an all-IP environment.
Despite some recent market consolidation, the UK
telecommunications industry remains highly competitive. The
industry continues to suffer from price erosion – particularly in
voice services which are largely seen as a commodity.
While the market is competitive, spend on telecoms by businesses
in the UK is largely flat year-on-year. This masks a change in the way
this spend is being apportioned. Over the last year, the market has
seen voice spend declining, while data spend has remained static.
Spend on hosting and application services, meanwhile has increased.
Our core customers – Chief Information Officers and IT Directors
within large organisations – are under increasing pressure to achieve
more for less. This is particularly so where IP-based technology is
transforming the consumer marketplace at low cost and is driving a
gradual, but quickening, migration to IP services.
We are also seeing large business customers looking to remove
complexity from their business, enabling more flexibility and agility
when it comes in turn to serving their customers’ needs. Part of
this process has seen them actively reducing the number of
suppliers they engage with, using those supply partners that remain
to provide a range of managed services – where the supplier takes
on responsibility for the effective management of all third party
organisations involved in the provision of services.
This trend for managed services has been prevalent across the
board but is having significant impact in the technology industry,
where traditional relationships were previously based purely on best
price, whereas in future, relationships will be based on best service
and management skills.
This has also driven many customers to procure their total
telephony and communications solutions from System Integrators
(‘SIs’). This provides us with an enormous opportunity as we are
the only telecoms provider with the scale and access to supply 
the SIs with everything they need – without directly competing 
with them.
Where we want to be
We will focus our resources on serving fewer, larger customers with
a wide range of IP-based services tailored to fit their specific
business needs – and delivering them a higher level of service than
they receive from other areas of the telecoms industry.
This points us at a very specific segment of the overall market –
encompassing 3,000 corporates, carriers and public institutions –
where in excess of £7 billion is spent on telecommunications 
each year.
We will invest in the key areas of IP and hosting technology – areas
that allow us to develop new, flexible solutions core to our
customers’ long-term requirements. This will mean a gradual shift in
our revenue mix – taking us from a business dominated by voice
revenues to a business where IP solutions constitute a much larger
portion of our revenue.
By proactively reducing the number of customers we serve, we 
can target our resource and investment to ensure that our core
customers receive a far more personalised service experience –
built to match their specific needs. Our customer research tells us
that this is the area where telecoms providers are at their weakest
and this is the gap we intend to close.
We are investing our resources in delivering a suite of high quality,
bespoke managed IP services – we won’t simply use IP to replicate
our existing products. These managed IP services – such as data
networks, hosting,VoIP and virtual call centres – are increasingly
critical to our customers and allow them to focus on their core
business, serve their customers better and reduce their cost base –
whilst retaining peace of mind that the resilience and security of
their business communications are in safe hands.
So that we stay close to our customers – developing the
understanding and insight that our service promise is founded on 
– we have introduced two distinct go-to-market sales channels,
Services and Carrier.
Our Services team works primarily with large corporates, SIs and
public institutions looking for a provider that can manage all their
telecommunications requirements. These customers typically require
a trusted partner that will deliver resilient and secure, mission-critical
services over the course of contracts spanning many years.
Our Carrier organisation provides for the needs of
telecommunications carriers, service providers and resellers across
more than 140 countries in our key markets of the UK, continental
Europe,Asia and the US.
In line with our strong delivery focus, our people are now measured
against new performance criteria based around customer insight and
the ability to deliver. And we are revamping the way in which we
reward people by recognising excellent service and the ability to
secure longer-term and higher margin business.
Products and services
We have developed a technically advanced portfolio of solutions
based on the needs of our core customers – today and in the
20 2005/06 Annual report market share, rather than to attract new broadband customers. For
the same reason, price pressure will remain a fixture of our market.
Where we want to be
T o date, we have chosen to leverage our investment in LLU through
Bulldog. However, that is only part of the LLU picture for 
Cable & Wireless. Local loop capability is a fundamental part of our
overall UK corporate access strategy and is in line with our move to
Next Generation and IP networks.
We know that excellent service is central to attracting and retaining
customers. We have to get our service right first time, every time –
and we have to do that quickly and efficiently. A lot of this has 
to do with our systems, processes and people. We will continue 
to invest significant time and effort in improving how we serve 
our customers. This includes putting in place systems for online
customer provisioning and problem resolution and the creation of a
customer relationship management system to provide customer
service agents with the right tools to deliver a quick and effective
service to our customers.
Regulatory environment
During the year, Ofcom completed its Strategic Review of the UK
telecommunications market. This resulted in BT giving the regulator
a number of undertakings in lieu of a referral to the Competition
Commission. BT moved the part of its wholesale division that
manages its access network into a new entity, Openreach, with the
aim of dealing with all telecoms operators on the same basis as BT’s
retail divisions. Thus far we have seen little benefit or improved BT
performance from this move.
future. Our suite of solutions is built around the following four areas
of expertise:
Contact centres
Our solutions ensure customers can connect, automate and manage
inbound and outbound customer communications effectively and
efficiently. Intelligent network technology and advanced voice
recognition systems ensure calls are routed directly to suitable
agents, locally or abroad. We also enable customer interaction via
email, internet or telephone – or a combination of all three.
Data and IP
We span all data networking needs from local and wide area
networks to services delivered using IP and Raman ring-based
communications technology and value-added solutions – from best
in class network security to disaster recovery solutions. Resilience
and security are features of all our networking solutions, as is cost,
effective design and speedy implementation.
Hosting and applications
Our integrated hosting, networking, security and archiving solutions
cover a wide range, from internet transactions to complex, just-in-
time, supply management solutions.
Voice
We are the world’s fourth largest carrier of voice services and
provide and develop a comprehensive portfolio of voice over 
IP-based products allowing customers access to new services and
cost models, without the need for costly infrastructure investment.
Bulldog
Through Bulldog, we provide broadband and telephony services to
residential, SoHo and SME customers in the UK. Using local loop
unbundling (‘LLU’), we install our own equipment in BT’s local
exchanges thereby taking control of the local loop between the 
BT exchange and the customer’s home or office.
Where we are
We were the first major company in the UK to engage in full
unbundling of broadband and voice and currently serve just under
120,000 residential and small business customers. Full unbundling
gives us a technological advantage over our competitors as we can
differentiate our service offering, maintain full bandwidth control and
provide for our customers end-to-end – rather than simply reselling
BT’s products.
We offer broadband speeds up to a maximum of 16Mbps. Our
range of packages are designed to suit our customers’ varying needs.
A number of our competitors have announced plans for LLU but,
to date, they have made little progress. We believe we have around
a six to twelve month advantage over them in the rollout of LLU.
In addition, to date, our LLU competitors have largely chosen only
to unbundle the data capability in the exchange and so will remain
dependent on BT to provide voice services to customers.
Competition in consumer broadband services is tough and, as the
migration of customers from narrowband to broadband services
slows, competition is likely to increase as existing players fight to gain
2005/06 Annual report 21
UK business UK business
Overview
Our work in our communities
We recognise the positive role that we can play in promoting
economic and social development in our communities. Accordingly,
the ways in which we do business, develop our employees, treat 
the environment and interact with our communities are important
to us.
Information Communications T echnology 
(‘ICT’) training
We continue to run our highly successful ICT Academy. Based in
our Bracknell headquarters, this after-school club sees us tutoring
local children between the ages of 11 and 14 on the use of
computer technology. We have also just started working with
WebPlay, a UK-based ICT charity, and Bracknell Borough Council to
help children from local schools develop and design a web-based
online tourist guide of the Bracknell area.
Using the internet responsibly
We are fully aware of the positive benefits delivered by having
access to the internet. However, in a small minority of instances,
material is inappropriate.
As a founding member of the Internet Watch Foundation (IWF) in
the UK, we work with the relevant authorities to mitigate the risks
presented by minors having access to material designed for over 18s
or illegal content in general. Our Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
provides details on the types of prohibited activity including spam,
slander, obscenity and child pornography which customers and third
parties must not participate in when using our network. The AUP
can be found at www.cw.com
22 2005/06 Annual report
