 Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
2005/06 Annual report 3
Introduction
The last year has been one of change and of progress.
We have taken significant steps to redefine and continue the
turnaround of Cable & Wireless – the most important of these being:
– the acquisition in the UK of the number three in this market,
Energis – more on this later; and
– the new structure that we have put in place, separating 
Cable & Wireless into two discrete and self-contained businesses,
International and UK.
Our new structure is designed to maximise shareholder value. With
dedicated management focus to tackle and capitalise on the differing
financial, operational and regulatory characteristics in each of our
businesses, both the International and UK businesses are now
responsible for their overall financial performance and return on
capital employed, and are rewarded in proportion to the
shareholder value created by that business.
Also in line with our move to create two distinct businesses, we
have redefined the role and scope of our Group corporate centre,
which will give rise to £20 million of annual savings.
This new structure marks the next phase for Cable & Wireless with
the job of the last three years complete. During that time, we have:
– removed risks to the Group’s financial security with exits from
unsustainable markets;
– successfully rebalanced the International business towards the
growth areas of broadband and mobile, whilst absorbing the
impact of liberalisation that we face in a number of our key
markets; and
– put in place in the UK the strategic tools to reposition and
stabilise our business.
With our strategic repositioning complete, our priorities for 
the next three years are clear – delivery and execution.
Our commitment is to deliver for our customers and for 
our shareholders.
International
In the International business, where we are the leading player in
virtually all of the 33 countries in which we operate, we are very
conscious of the responsibilities that our position demands.
We have made good progress in, and are committed to, increasing
mobile and broadband coverage, and rolling out new technologies
and compelling services for customers. We continue to play an active
role in the communities and environments in which we operate.
All this is borne out by our solid customer acquisition and retention
rates – achieved in the face of stiff and growing competition.
UK
Our UK business is undergoing a transformation.
The acquisition of Energis in November 2005 saw us buying scale,
a strong customer base of large corporate and public sector 
– Acquisition in the UK of Energis
– Creation of two self-contained businesses,
International and UK
– Strategic repositioning complete
– Future priorities – delivery and execution
for our customers and shareholders
– 18% increase in the full year dividend to
4.5 pence per share Introduction and overview
Chairman’s statement
4 2005/06 Annual report
customers and solid management capabilities. With the strategic
asset that our local loop unbundling capability (via Bulldog) gives us,
we now have all the tools in place to be a real alternative to BT for
our customers.
Prior to the acquisition of Energis, we stated that our intention was
for the UK to become a business with £2 billion of revenues and
double digit operating margin. These same targets have been
committed to by our new UK management team which has every
confidence in delivering them.
Our ambition for this business is to serve the largest users of
telecoms in the UK and globally with IP-based services – and to be
famous for delivering a great service experience to our customers.
Inevitably as we effect major change to this organisation, individual
lives are directly affected and I would like to thank those employees
who have left the business, as well as those who continue with us
on our journey.
Board structure
Our move to split the businesses has resulted also in a new board
structure for Cable & Wireless. We have created two new
operating boards, one each for International and the UK, which
report to the main Group board. These new boards benefit from
operationally strong and experienced executive management 
teams – and we have consequently slimmed down the main board.
In particular, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen has stepped down from
the main board to concentrate on his role as Non-executive
Chairman of the International business, with a particular focus on
our relationships with local governments and regulators. I would like
to thank all the Directors who are stepping down from the main
Group board – my thanks go to them for the work that they have
done in getting our business to where it is today. It is their efforts
that have, in no small part, succeeded in preparing Cable & Wireless
for the next phase of its reinvention.
Dividend
I am pleased to announce a final dividend, to be paid in August,
subject to shareholder approval, of 3.1 pence per share. The total
dividend of 4.5 pence per share represents an 18% increase over
the previous year. The rise in the dividend reflects the increased
visibility of the future prospects for the Group, which the move to
the execution phase of our turnaround gives us.
The future
The environments in which we operate continue to be 
remarkably challenging – in most cases suffering from price cutting
and stiff competition, particularly as we move towards technology
convergence.
The move to all IP-based services will exacerbate these
characteristics as players struggle to win and maintain market share.
With our focus on delivering a superior level of service to our
customers, we are now well placed to capitalise on this and give 
our customers a new and superior experience of buying
telecommunications services.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank our employees for
their hard work, focus and determination to deliver for customers
regardless of the challenging environment in which we must
operate. They are the ones that bring our ambitions to life and they
are the ones that customers identify with. As such, I am confident
that, together, we can build our future success.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
