 Chairman’s statement
A year ago, I was absolutely clear about our priority 
– namely delivery and execution. That has not changed;
what I didn’t anticipate was the scale and pace of operational
improvements that we would see in this first year of the 
new approach.
So, while I’m pleased with our progress, I must underline 
that we’re only at the start – there’s a great deal more value 
to create and deliver . 
The move to separate our businesses into two discrete
operating arms both absolutely focused on their customers’
needs – and the resulting smaller Central division acting 
as a portfolio manager of the two – has proved itself to be 
the right one. This is evidenced by improving financial
performance and a strong balance sheet with shareholder
value rising by £1.5 billion this year .
Likewise, with a slimmed down main Board and Operating
Boards for International and Europe, Asia & US, our new
governance structure is working well. As part of this new 
structure, we were delighted to welcome Simon Ball as 
a Non-executive Director who brings with him a wealth of
financial acumen and investment experience. The statement
of the independent Non-executive Directors on page 35
speaks to all of this in more detail.
Looking to the future, it’s a case of more of the same. 
With delivery and execution remaining our number one
priority , the coming year will see us building on the success
and accomplishments of the last and remaining focused 
on creating value for our shareholders. 
Finally , I would like to take this opportunity to mention our
people. Specifically , I want to express my sincere thanks to
each and every one of them for the significant effort they 
put in and commitment they show day in, day out.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
It’s been a good year . The success of the structural
changes we made a year ago is there for all to see.
International has performed well delivering growth
in customers and revenues and, as a result, improved
EBITDA. We have made a very encouraging start 
to the Europe, Asia & US turnaround and we now
have sufficient visibility to believe that we’ll deliver
on our ambitious targets. 
All of which reinforces our confidence in our future
prospects which is reflected in the dividend. I’m
delighted to recommend a 34% rise in the final 
dividend to 4.15 pence per share which, with the
interim of 1.7 pence per share, gives a full year
dividend of 5.85 pence per share, an increase 
of 30% over last year .
While I’m pleased with our
progress, I must underline
that we’re only at the start 
– there’s a great deal more
value to create and deliver .
06
