 08
International Chief Executive’s review
We have started to see 
the rewards of putting 
the customer at the centre 
of everything we do.
We saw strong growth in Panama, where relatively low
mobile and broadband penetration and plans to expand 
the Panama canal should continue to drive future growth.
Likewise, in Macau, the strength of the gaming industry 
is driving demand for our services.
I’m particularly pleased that in Jamaica the turnaround 
is showing tangible results. Mobile customers are up 47% 
on last year with rising market share. And we have almost
doubled our broadband customers since March 2006. 
This is all evidenced in a 13% rise in Jamaica EBITDA 
(at constant currency).
This year as next, we continue to invest in our mobile and
broadband expansion plans to improve network quality and
coverage and to take advantage of low market penetrations.
Next year , we are aiming to enable 90% of our network to
deliver at least 8Mbps broadband.
Despite our good progress, I’m far from satisfied and there 
is always room for improvement. In particular , we have to 
do better in our joint venture in T rinidad and T obago, where
we don’t have management control. Here results have fallen 
a long way short of our expectations. 
I’m pleased with our improved focus on cash repatriation 
to Central. We repatriated £530 million of cash of which
£256 million was from the net sale proceeds of our 
associate investment in Bahrain.
Cable & Wireless International is well positioned as the
leading full-service provider for small to medium markets.
And we have what it takes to drive our business forward. 
I’d like to thank everyone in the International team. Without
our people, none of the achievements of the past 12 months
would have been possible. 
Harris Jones
Chief Executive of International 
and Joint Group Managing Director
International has performed well. Our focus on
mobile and broadband has paid dividends with
customer numbers over five million for mobile 
and over 400,000 for broadband. The turnaround 
of the Jamaican business is evident and we are
regaining mobile market share there. Our EBITDA
has increased by 8% (at constant currency) to 
£430 million, with an EBITDA margin of 35%.
We are starting to see the rewards of putting the customer 
at the centre of everything we do. Our revenue has increased
by 7% (at constant currency), with mobile revenue up 19%
and broadband revenue up 45%. An increased focus on
working together across International has allowed us to
improve the customer experience while reducing our other
operating costs to 31% of revenue. As a result, EBITDA before
exceptionals has increased 8% to £430 million and we have
achieved an EBITDA margin of 35%.
We operate in 33
countries around 
the world, serving
residential and
business customers.
