 06
Chairman’s review
Whilst our trading position is in good health, the current
volatility of the financial markets provides no basis 
for proper financial planning. Consequently , we have
postponed, but not cancelled, our plans for value
realisation until we can foresee a sustained period 
of normality returning to the financial markets.
Our Long T erm Incentive Plan (L TIP) has been a key
ingredient in our success over the last three years as
the fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 and the second
best performer in the FTSE Global T elecoms Sector
Index. It has proven to be effective in motivating our
senior management and aligning their interests with 
our shareholders. The Board has recently proposed
new executive incentive arrangements to ensure we
retain our best managers and keep them focused on
delivering for shareholders beyond 2009. Under these
proposals, the L TIP will be extended by one year to 2011.
In these markets, corporate governance has also proved
to be a key differentiator . The dislocation in credit and
equity markets is bringing about a major rethink of
corporate governance in Western markets. This is 
a process the Board of Cable & Wireless welcomes. 
Our Board has applied a rigorous system of governance
for several years. In addition to reporting against 
the guidelines of the Combined Code for corporate
governance, our Senior Independent Director also
prepares a report describing the corporate governance
and behaviours of the Board (on page 48), something
we believe adds significant transparency in our
reporting to shareholders.
Finally , I would like to thank all of my fellow 
Board Directors for their service this year and, 
most importantly , extend my congratulations to 
all employees. Their work has delivered for our
shareholders, of which they should all feel proud.
2008/09 has been a year in which 
Cable & Wireless has stood out from the 
pack. Amid difficult economic conditions 
for all businesses we have achieved a 
healthy set of results.
The economic conditions and state of the credit 
and equity markets over the past 12 months are
unprecedented. I have seen several recessions, 
but none that has affected each region of the world
simultaneously . In these situations, management 
quality becomes an even greater differentiator 
between companies than usual. 
I am pleased to report that the management teams 
of both our businesses have performed well. Our
Worldwide business has increased its EBITDA by 
49% (36% from the underlying business before the
Thus acquisition). It has moved into positive trading
cash flow and is successfully executing the integration
of Thus. CWI has also taken a substantial step forward
in terms of profitability , producing double-digit growth
in EBITDA. It is tackling the cost base of its Caribbean
operation through its ‘One Caribbean’ programme, 
and has grown its market-leading mobile position in
Panama despite further competition. Both Worldwide
and CWI have been prepared to take difficult decisions
in these challenging times, ensuring that we continue to
deliver for our shareholders. And so, I am delighted to be
able to recommend a 13% increase in our full year
dividend to 8.50 pence per share.
Richard Lapthorne
Chairman
Healthy performance,
strong governance.
We are
delivering
Our profitability is growing
EBITDA up 36% to £822 million
We are delivering for our shareholders
Fifth best performer in the FTSE 100 over the last three years
Our dividend is increasing
Recommended full year dividend of 8.50 pence per share, up 13% Introduction Business 
review
Governance Financial 
statements
Shareholder
information
04 Cable & Wireless at a glance
06 Chairman’s review
CWI
09 Chief Executive’s review
10 Business overview
14 Performance review
18 Corporate responsibility
Worldwide
21 Executive Chairman’s review
22 Business overview
26 Performance review
30 Corporate responsibility
Cable & Wireless Group
32 Group Finance Director’s review
33 Financial performance review
37 Risk overview
40 Board of Directors
42 Directors’ report
46 Corporate governance report
48 Statement from the independent 
Non-executive Directors
49 Report of the Audit Committee
50 Directors’ remuneration report
60 Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
Cable & Wireless Group
62 Independent auditor’s report
63 Consolidated financial statements
67 Notes to the financial statements
Cable and Wireless plc
120 Independent auditor’s report
121 Company financial statements
123 Notes to the financial statements
136 Useful shareholder information
07
Business review
A review of our two
businesses – CWI 
and Worldwide – 
and our financial
performance during
the year . 08
CWI
We own and operate full service
telecommunications businesses 
through four regional operations:
1 Caribbean
2 Panama 
3 Macau
4 Monaco & Islands
