 09
Business 
review
Tony Rice
Chief Executive 
CWI
Cable & Wireless International, now rebadged 
as CWI Group, enters the new financial year as 
a business in strong shape with a clear vision 
for the future.
Over the past eighteen months we have arranged
CWI into four distinct regional operations – 
Caribbean, Panama, Macau and Monaco & Islands.
This structure has enabled us to empower the 
local management teams, with the centre acting 
as a portfolio manager focused on delivering the 
best value for our shareholders. Each business has
developed a strategy tailored to its local marketplace
and from the centre we aim to provide the businesses
with the tools and support they need to achieve 
their goals. I am very pleased to report that all four
operations have embraced this approach. This is
evident in our results with an 11% increase in EBITDA,
13% in constant currency terms.
In the Caribbean, the progress we have made 
since launching our ‘One Caribbean’ transformation
programme is gratifying. In bringing 13 individual
businesses together under one management
structure, the programme has delivered reductions 
in operating costs and complexity as well as, more
recently, service improvements. Over the coming 
year, the programme is focused on further
performance improvements. 
Cable & Wireless Panama has maintained its leading
market position and grown revenue and profits
despite the entry of two new mobile competitors. 
This is testament to how well prepared we were for
the new entrants – we will continue to be as vigilant 
as the new financial year progresses.  
In Macau, a slowdown in the local economy due to the
restriction of tourist visitors from China and continuing
competition has not prevented CTM from once again
delivering good margins. I am delighted that we have
agreed an extension of our concession agreement,
subject to ratification.
And finally, across the diverse portfolio of our Monaco
& Islands operation, we have seen strong local financial
performance, particularly from Monaco domestic 
and Seychelles, as the regional management team 
has got to grips with the intricacies of a diverse
geographic portfolio. 
All four regional operations are also responding to 
my challenge of identifying future growth opportunities.
While the current economic climate poses issues to all
marketplaces in some way, the opportunities in each of
our businesses significantly outweigh these challenges.
Each business is examining initiatives to reduce costs
further and extend their existing services and products.
A recent example has been the mobile broadband
service developed by our Macau business, successfully
exploiting our 3G network in the territory. 
In all, as the new Chief Executive of CWI, I am pleased
to be leading a business in strong shape into the new
financial year. 
+13%
EBITDA at 
constant currency
CWI
Chief Executive’s review
A business 
in strong
shape
