 in	 April.	 Reshaping	 the	 portfolio	 will	 require	
patience	 as	 in	 most	 territories	 we	 are	 a	
provider	 of	 key	 national	 infrastructure,	 often	
partnered	 with	 the	 government.	 To	 have	
completed	 two	 deals	 in	 our	 first	 year	 is	 an	
excellent	 start.	 	
Whilst	 the	 shape	 changes,	 our	 mission	
and	 purpose	 remain	 clear.	 We	 operate	 in	
local	 markets,	 assisting	 them	 to	 grow	
by	 delivering	 world	 class	 communications	
services	 and	 expertise	 adapted	 for	 each	
specific	 environment.	
Our	 Board	 of	 Directors	 has	 also	 seen	 change.	
Kasper	 Rorsted	 retired	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	
Director	 and	 Ian	 Tyler	 joined	 the	 Board.	 Kasper	
joined	 the	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 Board	 in	 2003,	
and	 has	 served	 both	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 and	
CWC	 shareholders	 impeccably.	 Thankfully,	 we	
have	 found	 a	 strong	 replacement	 in	 Ian,	 who	
is	 the	 Chief	 Executive	 of	 a	 fellow	 FTSE	 250	
company,	 Balfour	 Beatty.	 Kate	 Nealon	 will	 also	
retire	 as	 a	 Non-Executive	 Director	 at	 the	 end	
of	 our	 Annual	 General	 Meeting	 in	 July,	 after	
seven	 years	 of	 valuable	 service.
George	 Battersby,	 our	 HR	 Director,	 also	 stepped	
down	 from	 the	 Board	 in	 July	 2010,	 and	 sadly	
passed	 away	 shortly	 afterwards	 following	 a	
hard	 fought	 battle	 with	 cancer.	 George	 had	
been	 with	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 since	 2004	 and	
provided	 a	 wealth	 of	 corporate	 experience	
and	 common	 sense.	 His	 wise	 counsel	 was	
valued	 by	 all	 of	 the	 senior	 executives	 at	 Cable	
&	 Wireless	 and	 CWC,	 particularly	 myself	 as	
Chairman.	 The	 Board	 of	 Directors	 felt	 a	 deep	
sense	 of	 loss	 of	 such	 a	 fine	 colleague.
The	 CWC	 Board	 has	 continued	 the	 rigorous	
approach	 to	 corporate	 governance	 employed	
by	 Cable	 &	 Wireless	 prior	 to	 its	 demerger.	
Our	 approach	 to	 governance	 is	 focused	 on	
driving	 good	 behaviours	 within	 the	 business.	
Our	 Independent	 Directors’	 report	 (page	 42)	
outlines	 this	 approach,	 which	 includes	 our	
four	 behavioural	 questions	 for	 measuring	 the	
effectiveness	 of	 our	 corporate	 governance.	
This	 model	 rightly	 places	 the	 Board	 of	
Directors	 as	 the	 stewards	 of	 the	 business,	
working	 on	 behalf	 of	 shareholders.	
The	 continued	 success	 of	 our	 business	
reflects	 the	 efforts	 of	 our	 7,000	 colleagues,	
who	 are	 spread	 across	 four	 continents.	
I	 would	 like	 to	 thank	 them	 for	 their	
commitment	 to,	 and	 pride	 in,	 this	 Company.
We	 have	 made	 a	 positive	 start	 as	 an	
independent	 Group	 and	 will	 continue	 building	
the	 foundations	 for	 the	 Company’s	 future	
success.	 Shareholders	 should	 feel	 confident	
that	 our	 business	 is	 well	 positioned	 to	
exploit	 the	 exciting	 new	 opportunities	
which	 are	 emerging.	
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
It gives me great pleasure to introduce 
our annual report for 2010/11, Cable & 
Wireless Communications’ (CWC’s) first 
year as an independent company. 
We	 have	 made	 good	 progress	 since	 our	
demerger	 in	 March	 2010.	 We	 saw	 strong	
trading	 performances	 in	 three	 of	 our	 business	
units,	 Panama,	 Macau	 and	 Monaco	 &	 Islands.	
Our	 fourth	 business,	 the	 Caribbean,	 made	
solid	 operational	 progress,	 but	 its	 results	
continue	 to	 be	 challenged	 by	 weak	 or	
declining	 economies	 across	 the	 region.	
The	 Caribbean	 has	 a	 larger	 impact	 on	 our	
overall	 financial	 performance	 than	 our	 other	
businesses,	 due	 to	 the	 higher	 proportional	
shareholdings	 we	 hold	 in	 this	 business.	
Nevertheless,	 we	 have	 reported	 improved	
revenues	 (up	 4%	 to	 US$2.4	 billion),	 EBITDA	
(up	 1%	 to	 US$872	 million)	 and	 profit	 before	
tax	 (up	 21%	 to	 US$462	 million).
Each	 of	 the	 businesses	 also	 continues	 to	
generate	 a	 high	 cash	 conversion	 of	 profits.	
The	 Board	 of	 Directors	 has	 recommended	
a	 full	 year	 dividend	 of	 US8	 cents	 per	 share,	
US2.67	 cents	 of	 which	 was	 paid	 in	 January	
following	 our	 interim	 results	 with	 a	 further	
US5.33	 cents	 to	 be	 paid	 in	 August	 2011,	
subject	 to	 the	 approval	 of	 shareholders.	
We	 are	 in	 the	 process	 of	 returning	 further	
capital	 to	 shareholders	 through	 a	 US$100	
million	 share	 buyback	 programme,	 launched	
in	 February.	 The	 buyback	 is	 an	 effective,	 and	
risk-free,	 use	 of	 our	 cash,	 saving	 a	 dividend	
payment	 on	 the	 shares	 we	 purchase.
Our	 demerger	 has	 also	 brought	 increased	
focus	 to	 our	 business,	 particularly	 at	 Board	
level.	 Prior	 to	 separation,	 Board	 discussion	
was	 dominated	 by	 the	 turnaround	 of	 Cable	 &	
Wireless	 Worldwide	 and	 the	 demerger	 itself.	
The	 focus	 of	 the	 Board,	 and	 management,	
is	 now	 on	 ensuring	 that	 CWC	 captures	 the	
emerging	 growth	 opportunities	 for	 full	
service	 telecoms	 businesses,	 particularly	
mobile	 data,	 enterprise	 and	 carrier	 services.	
Our	 businesses	 are	 well	 placed	 to	 do	 so.	
We	 are	 seeing	 a	 good	 response	 to	 our	 mobile	
data	 and	 fixed	 and	 mobile	 broadband	 services,	
particularly	 in	 Panama	 and	 Macau.	 Demand	
for	 our	 data	 centre	 and	 hosting	 services	 is	
growing	 and	 we	 are	 expanding	 our	 subsea	
cable	 infrastructure	 to	 meet	 demand	 in	 the	
carrier	 market.	 We	 are	 also	 building	 our	
capability	 in	 providing	 social	 telecoms	
services	 to	 governments	 and	 managed	
services	 to	 large	 corporate	 customers,	 such	
as	 the	 large	 casino	 resort	 operators	 in	 Macau.	 	 	
We	 also	 made	 progress	 on	 our	 reshaping	 of	 the	
Group,	 disposing	 of	 our	 operations	 in	 Bermuda	
and	 purchasing	 a	 majority	 shareholding	 in	
the	 Bahamas	 Telecommunications	 Company	
(BTC),	 the	 leading	 operator	 in	 The	 Bahamas	
Chairman’ s review
Increase in profit 
before tax
Recommended full  
year dividend
04	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Introduction “ We have made a positive start as an 
independent Group and will continue 
building the foundations for future 
success. Shareholders should feel 
confident that our business is well 
positioned to exploit the exciting new 
opportunities which are emerging.”
Sir Richard Lapthorne
Chairman 
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 05  “The needs of telecoms customers are 
changing. We are in the midst of a shift 
towards more data-centric services. 
We will be diverting a far greater 
proportion of our investment into 
mobile data capacity and launching 
new products that tap the customer 
demand for data services.”
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
06	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications Annual	 report	 2010/11	 //	 Introduction
