 Chief Executive’ s 
review 
It’s	 in	 a	 region	 we	 understand	 well	 and	 in	 which	
we	 have	 scale.	 It’s	 also	 a	 partnership	 with	 the	
local	 Government,	 which	 is	 a	 structure	 we	 have	
made	 work	 successfully	 in	 other	 territories.	
There	 is	 also	 a	 restructuring	 opportunity	 at	
BTC,	 which	 will	 provide	 further	 impetus	 to	 the	
turnaround	 of	 our	 Caribbean	 business.	 We	 are	
delighted	 to	 welcome	 our	 new	 colleagues	 from	
BTC	 to	 the	 Group	 and	 expect	 the	 business	 to	
make	 a	 major	 contribution	 in	 the	 future.
Bermuda	 was	 not	 a	 full-service	 business.	 We	
found	 a	 committed	 buyer	 who	 received	 the	
support	 of	 the	 Bermudan	 Government,	 so	 	
we	 took	 the	 opportunity	 to	 sell	 the	 business.	
The Caribbean is facing a challenging 
environment again next year. When do you 
expect the situation to improve there?   
The	 economies	 of	 our	 Caribbean	 region	
remained	 weak	 last	 year	 which,	 when	 combined	
with	 ‘austerity’	 budgets	 in	 many	 of	 the	 islands,	
impacted	 disposable	 incomes	 significantly.	 It	 	
is	 disposable	 income	 that	 dictates	 consumer	
spending	 on	 telephony,	 and	 our	 business	 felt	
the	 strain.	 We	 don’t	 expect	 to	 see	 much	
improvement	 in	 the	 market	 this	 year.	 Jamaica,	
in	 particular,	 remains	 difficult 	 with	 potential	
for	 further	 structural	 declines	 if	 there	 is	 no	
change	 to	 the	 regulatory	 environment.	
Our	 Caribbean	 team	 is	 taking	 the	 right	 steps	
to	 drive	 better	 performance	 however	 –	
upgrading	 networks,	 improving	 customer	
services	 and	 revitalising	 our	 branding	 and	 we	
also	 expect	 to	 bring	 the	 iPhone	 to	 Caribbean	
markets	 for	 the	 first	 time	 in	 this	 calendar	 year.	
Last	 year	 we	 launched	 a	 fightback	 in	 the	
Jamaica	 mobile	 market,	 and	 stole	 a	 march	
with	 our	 mobile	 TV	 product.	
Panama’s performance was down slightly, 
although the second half was strong. 
What were the key levers? 
Mobile,	 enterprise,	 broadband	 and	 pay	 TV	
were	 the	 key	 levers.	 Once	 again	 our	 mobile	
business	 delivered	 an	 excellent	 performance	
in	 the	 face	 of	 intense	 competition.	 In	 a	 now	 four	
player	 market,	 it	 maintained	 its	 market	 share	
above	 50%	 and	 posted	 a	 1%	 rise	 in	 revenue.	
Broadband	 and	 TV	 revenue	 also	 increased	
with	 our	 +TV	 Digital	 service	 growing	 to	 over	
44,200	 subscribers	 at	 year	 end.	 Broadband	
subscribers	 also	 grew	 by	 4%.
In	 enterprise	 services	 we	 had	 a	 particularly	
good	 second	 half,	 being	 selected	 on	 several	
government	 projects.	 I	 am	 very	 proud	 of	
these	 social	 telecoms	 projects,	 which	 utilise	
our	 telecoms	 expertise	 to	 deliver	 public	
services	 more	 effi ciently.	 Last	 year	 we	 were	
chosen	 to	 provide	 a	 telemammography	
service,	 which	 will	 ensure	 more	 Panamanian	
women	 have	 access	 to	 preventative	 breast	
cancer	 screenings.	 In	 April,	 we	 were	 selected	
by	 the	 Government	 of	 El	 Salvador	 to	 provide	 	
a	 911	 emergency	 services	 platform,	 similar	 	
to	 the	 one	 we	 provide	 in	 Panama,	 showing	 	
our	 social	 telecoms	 expertise	 can	 be	 exported	
beyond	 Panama	 and	 is	 relevant	 to	 all	 of	 	
our	 business	 units.
How do you assess the Company’s  
performance in 2010/11? 
This	 was	 our	 first	 year	 following	 demerger	 	
and	 overall	 I	 am	 pleased	 with	 the	 progress	 we	
made	 in	 delivering	 our	 strategy	 and	 improving	
our	 operations.	 We	 faced,	 and	 continue	 to	
face,	 headwinds	 in	 the	 Caribbean,	 but	 to	
finish	 the	 year	 with	 revenues	 up	 4%	 and	
EBITDA	 up	 1%	 is	 a	 respectable	 performance,	
in	 the	 circumstances.	 Our	 Macau,	 Panama	
and	 Monaco	 &	 Islands	 businesses	 performed	
well.	 The	 environment	 in	 the	 Caribbean	 clearly	 	
has	 been	 difficult, 	 but	 the	 strength	 of	 our	
portfolio	 is	 apparent	 in	 the	 fact	 that	 we	 have	
limited	 the	 impact	 of	 reduced	 profitability	 	
in	 the	 Caribbean	 to	 our	 income	 statement.
Most	 importantly,	 all	 of	 the	 businesses	
have	 been	 doing	 the	 right	 things	 to	 position	
the	 Company	 for	 the	 future	 –	 developing	
propositions	 for	 mobile	 data,	 pay	 TV/
triple-play,	 high	 speed	 broadband,	
managed	 services	 and	 undersea	 cables.	
Finally,	 we	 maintained	 our	 commitment	 to	
our	 social	 responsibility	 programmes	 in	 each	
of	 our	 business	 units.	 Further	 details	 of	 what	
we	 have	 been	 up	 to	 are	 set	 out	 in	 the	 CSR	
section	 on	 pages	 26	 and	 27,	 and	 in	 our	 CSR	
Report	 which	 will	 be	 available	 on	 our	 website	
(www.cwc.com)	 from	 July.	 I’d	 like	 to	 thank	 all	
of	 our	 colleagues	 who	 have	 supported	 these	
initiatives	 and	 made	 a	 positive	 difference	 to	
the	 societies	 in	 which	 we	 operate.
What are your aims for the business 
in 2011/12?
This	 year	 will	 be	 about	 putting	 in	 place	 the	
building	 blocks	 to	 grow	 the	 business.	 We	 want	
to	 capture	 the	 opportunity	 of	 mobile	 data,	
and	 will	 be	 diverting	 a	 greater	 proportion	 of	
our	 investment	 into	 mobile	 data	 networks	
and	 accelerating	 the	 roll	 out	 of	 smartphones,	
including	 the	 iPhone.	 We	 have	 made	 an	
excellent	 start	 on	 mobile	 data	 in	 Macau	 and	
Panama,	 and	 expect	 further	 growth	 across	 	
all	 of	 our	 businesses.
We	 will	 also	 drive	 forward	 on	 other	 service	
growth	 initiatives.	 I	 want	 to	 see	 more	 business	
units	 providing	 managed	 services	 for	
enterprises	 and	 our	 social	 telecoms	 services	
for	 governments	 will	 also	 be	 a	 key	 priority.	
That	 said,	 I	 am	 determined	 we	 do	 not	 relax	
our	 ‘do	 it	 better’	 strategy	 –	 cost	 discipline	 and	
effi ciency	 remain	 central	 to	 the	 way	 we	 work.
We’ll	 also	 continue	 to	 pursue	 opportunities	 to	
reshape	 our	 Group,	 building	 on	 areas	 of	 strength,	
as	 we	 did	 with	 the	 acquisition	 of	 a	 controlling	
stake	 in	 the	 Bahamas	 Telecommunications	
Company	 (BTC),	 the	 leading	 operator	 in	 The	
Bahamas.	 We	 will	 also	 exit	 from	 businesses	
that	 no	 longer	 make	 sense	 to	 us,	 as	 we	 did	
last	 year	 from	 Bermuda.
How important were the decisions to 
sell the business in Bermuda and invest 
in The Bahamas? 
Both	 transactions	 showed	 our	 commitment	
to	 bring	 more	 focus	 to	 the	 Group.	 BTC	 in	 The	
Bahamas	 is	 a	 business	 that	 plays	 to	 our	 strengths.	
Chief Executive, 
T ony Rice shares 
his thoughts on 
the performance  
of Cable & Wireless 
Communications  
over the past year. 
Revenue
EBITDA
Operating cash flow
	 	 Cable 	 &	 Wireless	 Communications	 07
