 The 2011/12 year was about managing 
the continuing and accelerating migration 
of our business model from voice to data and 
establishing strong foundations for the future 
success of that model whilst maintaining 
good performance during that transition. 
Performance
Despite being faced with some challenging 
markets, and operating in a sector which has 
shown little or no growth for the past two 
to three years, our business increased both 
revenue and EBITDA.
Mobile data was the fastest growing segment 
of our services. Mobile data revenue rose 
82% across the Group, and now accounts 
for 21% of mobile service revenues.
Across the Group two of our businesses 
exceeded their targets (Macau, The 
Bahamas), two businesses met their targets 
(Caribbean, Monaco & Islands) and one 
ﬁnished below (Panama). Overall, it was 
a resilient performance.
Macau recorded its ninth straight year of 
record proﬁts, on the strength of our market 
leading position and continuing rapid growth 
in the local economy. 
The Bahamas, which we acquired at the 
beginning of the year, was another solid 
performer. We made good strides in 
restructuring and improving the business. 
It has made a stronger than expected early 
contribution to our performance, and we 
expect further progress in the current year.
After several difficult years, the rest of our 
Caribbean region performed in line with the 
outlook we set out at the start of the year. 
Trading conditions remained difficult, but the 
business now has a solid platform on which 
to build.
Our Monaco & Islands business was also on 
target, delivering good underlying results 
despite some currency headwinds and 
a loss in Aﬁnis, our ﬂedgling African 
enterprise business. 
In Panama we maintained mobile market 
share despite exceptional levels of 
competition. Mobile revenue increased by 
3%, but our margins were affected by intense 
price competition following the introduction 
of mobile number portability. The largest 
impact on performance was in our enterprise 
business which had a slower year.
Five year vision
Looking forward, we are putting in place the 
foundations for the evolution of our business 
over the next ﬁve years. The main focus of 
our investment is in data services, on both 
our mobile and ﬁxed networks.
As a full service operator we have the 
signiﬁcant competitive advantage of being 
able to deliver services to customers on 
any device, in any location. We can provide 
consumers with bundles of telecoms services 
(mobile, ﬁxed, broadband and pay TV) which 
meet growing demand for internet-based 
services, social telecoms services to 
governments and managed services 
to enterprises. 
Our investment in new data services will, 
however, be subject to the same demanding 
return on capital tests as all of our capital 
expenditure. We believe that return on 
invested capital (ROIC) is one of the most 
important metrics to help manage our 
business, and for this reason we will be 
setting progressive internal targets and 
reporting on it to shareholders each year.
We will also look to develop geographically, 
with particular focus on the pan-American 
region. Our approach in the past year has 
reﬂected this – expanding into The Bahamas, 
and selling our minority investments in 
Vanuatu and Fĳi. 
Next year
In 2012/13 we expect to see a further 
acceleration in data services, which 
will balance the continuing decline in 
voice services. 
We are focused on improving our ROIC, 
currently 17%, as we continue to increase 
penetration of smartphones and the take up 
of mobile data services. We will also look to 
step up the pace of reshaping the Group, and 
will consider acquisitions and disposals if, and 
when, suitable opportunities arise at the 
right values.
Clear strategic approach
Our strategy is focused on delivering world 
class service to our customers, competing 
in our markets and generating increasing 
financial returns.
For more information see page 8 ▶
Chief Executive’ s review
6 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction We are looking for progress in our most 
difficult Caribbean market, Jamaica. In May 
2012, we were very pleased to see new 
telecoms legislation, which should improve 
the regulation of the industry and our ability 
to compete. We have the opportunity to 
ﬁght on a level playing ﬁeld and regain mobile 
market share for the ﬁrst time in over a 
decade. Elsewhere in the Caribbean we will 
continue to focus on improving our cost base 
and building on the successful restructuring 
we have done in The Bahamas. The Panama 
market will remain competitive, particularly 
in mobile, but we will work hard to maintain 
our market leading position. Our Macau 
business will have to adapt to the introduction 
of ﬁxed line competition, but we expect 
continued growth there while our Monaco 
& Islands business should also continue its 
steady progress.
With a clear strategy and strong 
foundations in place, I feel conﬁdent that 
we are well placed to make progress over 
the foreseeable future, as always with the 
caveat that economic conditions around 
the world do not deteriorate further.
Tony Rice 
Corporate social responsibility
Our businesses operate responsibly and 
make an active and positive contribution 
to the communities in which we are 
present.
For more information see page 18 ▶
Mobile data was the fastest growing segment 
of our services. Mobile data revenue rose 
82% across the Group, and now accounts 
for 21 % of mobile service revenues. ”
Tony Rice 
Chief Executive
 “ 
Cable & Wireless Communications 7
