 It gives me pleasure to introduce the 
2011/12 Cable & Wireless Communications 
Annual report.
Progress 
We have made steady progress during the 
year. At Group level we posted a strong, 
18% increase in revenue, and delivered EBITDA 
of US$901 million, with our outlook met or 
exceeded in four business units. We also 
generated a healthy rate of cash ﬂow.
There have been some excellent results 
from our businesses, particularly in Macau 
and The Bahamas, as well as some resilient 
performances from our other businesses 
in more competitive and economically 
difficult conditions.
Each market we operate in has its own 
economic background, its own political 
agenda and its own industry regulator. Our 
job is to manage our business within those 
frameworks. For example, in Macau and the 
Maldives we beneﬁted from strong growth 
in visitor numbers and consequent favourable 
economic activity. However, we also had to 
deal with the impact of currency devaluation 
in the Maldives and Seychelles, an unbalanced 
regulatory regime in Jamaica and an 
unexpected acceleration in a regulatory 
change affecting mobile number portability 
in Panama which prompted unbudgeted 
promotional spending in order to successfully 
defend our market share. Despite these 
issues we have delivered strong results.
Strong financial management
Revenue, EBITDA and operating profit 
before exceptionals all increased in the 
2011/12 financial year.
For more information see page 20 ▶
An introduction from the Chairman
4 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2011/12 // Introduction In most of our territories we operate ﬁxed 
line telecoms infrastructure which underpins 
all mobile services and is fundamental to the 
communications systems of each country. 
The proﬁtability of our ﬁxed line business has 
continued to decline, partly as a result of the 
growing popularity of mobile services, but 
also because regulatory regimes designed 
to facilitate new entrants have not been 
brought into line with new market shares. 
Frequently, these regulations prevent us 
pricing our services sufficiently in order 
to make an adequate return. 
Our business, however, is seeing robust 
growth in a number of newly emerging 
products. Mobile data services are a once 
in a generation opportunity for our industry, 
and our investment in them is increasingly 
bearing results. Mobile data revenue rose 
strongly across our business during 
2011/12, as more of our customers switched 
to smartphones and began using mobile 
internet applications. We expect this 
growth to accelerate.
We have continued to deliver high-end 
managed services to governments and 
enterprises. We are particularly proud of the 
services we provide to governments, which 
we call social telecoms. During the year our 
businesses have been involved in introducing 
telemedicine services in the Maldives, an 
e-learning network in the Caribbean and a 
911 emergency services calling platform for 
El Salvador’s police force.
Dividend
The Board of Directors has recommended 
a full year dividend of US8 cents for the 
2011/12 year, maintaining the commitment 
we made when we demerged the business 
in 2010. US2.67 cents per share was paid 
in January following our interim results, 
with a further US5.33 cents payable in 
August 2012, subject to the approval 
of shareholders.
With the payment of this dividend we will 
have returned more than US$500 million to 
shareholders since our demerger in 2010. 
In the past two years we have faced global 
economic uncertainty which has impacted our 
business especially in the Caribbean. Having 
reassessed the ﬁnancial outlook for the Group, 
as well as our opportunities to invest and 
achieve attractive returns, the Board has 
decided to reset the dividend in 2012/13 
to a level we believe is both sustainable and 
capable of progressive future growth.
The majority of our businesses are jointly 
owned with local partners, often with the 
host government. Our economic ownership 
varies with averages of around 50% for 
Panama, Macau and The Bahamas, 65% for 
Monaco & Islands, and around 90% for the 
Caribbean, excluding The Bahamas. Equally, 
corporation tax rates vary from zero to 35%. 
Consequently, headline changes in EBITDA 
do not ﬂow evenly into Group earnings. This 
is why the performance of the Caribbean 
has become so arithmetically important 
in determining Group dividend policy.
Board changes
There have been changes to the Board, 
with Kate Nealon and Mary Francis retiring 
as Non-executive Directors and Mark Hamlin 
and Alison Platt being appointed.
Both Kate and Mary helped steer the Company 
through demerger and its early stage as an 
independent business. I thank them both for 
their distinguished contributions.
We have strong replacements in Mark 
and Alison. Mark has consulted to global 
businesses for more than 25 years, advising in 
areas including strategy, culture and corporate 
change, while Alison is the Managing Director 
for Bupa, the healthcare group, in North 
America and Europe.
Outlook
The communications services we provide 
have always been vital to our customers, but 
with the increasing versatility and availability 
of mobile services, the demand for what we 
provide will strengthen.
Anticipating and exploiting these new 
opportunities will not be possible without a 
capable and talented team. Our progress in 
the past year is a credit to the 8,000 people 
we employ. I thank them all for their efforts, 
and am conﬁdent that they can continue to 
take our business forward.
We are conﬁdent in the outlook for our 
business, and will remain focused on delivering 
income and returns to our shareholders.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
A focus on governance
Driving good behaviours remains at 
the core of our approach to corporate 
governance. Our Independent Directors’ 
report outlines this approach.
For more information see page 41 ▶
The communications services we provide 
have always been vital to our customers, 
but with the increasing versatility and 
availability of mobile services, the demand 
for what we provide will strengthen. ”
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE 
Chairman
 “ 
Cable & Wireless Communications 5
