 04 Cable & Wireless Communications
Chairman’ s review
 “We will now run our businesses, 
in the Caribbean and Panama,  
as a unified operation. ”
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
Chairman
2012/13 has been a milestone year for our Company.
It has been a year in which we executed several key 
strategic initiatives, most notably selling our Macau and 
Islands businesses to focus the Group on one region – 
pan-America. 
Cable & Wireless Communications’ historic operating 
model has been as a telecoms ‘finance house’, owning 
and managing a portfolio of assets. The strategic shift 
we have undertaken during the year has converted the 
Group to being a telecoms operator.
We will now run our businesses, in the Caribbean 
and Panama, as a unified operation. This will involve 
establishing a totally different structure for managing 
the Group and its operations, with the Group’s central 
function and operational control co-located in a new 
facility in the region. 
With this structure we will be able to reduce the layers 
of management, bring our best talent to exercise 
management control across the region and reinforce 
the accountability of our front line managers.
It is a clear break from the traditional approach of 
CWC, and Cable & Wireless Group before that, but it 
is the organisational approach that best captures the 
opportunity for our business and hence for establishing 
sustainable value for the firm. 
The fundamental drivers of our business remain strong. 
In the pan-America region demand for the mobile and 
fixed data services we provide is growing. Our business 
posted a 34% increase in mobile data service revenues 
in 2012/13 and the penetration of data services in the 
region is still below developed markets such as the US 
and Europe.
2012/13 Highlights
—  Dividend of 
US4 cents
—  Agreed sale of 
majority of Monaco 
& Islands division for 
US$680 million
—  Agreed sale of Macau 
division for a total 
consideration of 
US$750 million
  Annual report 2012/13 05
Positive value
 “ The fundamental drivers of our business 
remain strong. In the pan-America 
region demand for the mobile and fixed 
data services we provide is growing.”
Ahead of full implementation of the changed approach 
we are also improving the productivity of the business, 
by tackling our cost base, particularly in the Caribbean. 
This will improve our margins as well as the services we 
provide to customers.
The new approach will, however, not affect our business 
practices or corporate standards. The growth and 
development of this Group over its history has been 
based on strong ethical principles, which will remain 
firmly embedded in our organisation.
We have always been a vital part of the communities we 
serve – from providing the technology and networks 
that our customers use to connect with each other, to 
our support for the key institutions of the societies we 
operate in.
For example, we take a firm public stance against 
corruption and unethical business practice. Corruption 
damages business, discourages investment, stifles 
innovation and ultimately costs consumers. CWC already 
has rigorous procedures in place to attempt to prevent 
improper activities in our business, and we have set 
several further priorities to improve our practices, as 
well as setting an example to our industry. We have set 
out further detail on our position in the CSR report on 
pages 20 to 23.
With all the activity during the year devoted to 
progressing complex portfolio changes we were 
constantly aware of the risk of distraction from our usual 
attention to operational supervision. However, amid a 
very active year for the business, we have also achieved 
a strong operating performance, delivering the results 
we forecast at the start of the year. 
Group revenue of US$1.9 billion and EBITDA of 
US$589 million represented a solid performance, and 
our cash generation was strong. For a full commentary 
on the results, please see the Finance review on 
pages 24 to 30. 
As we continue the process of change we remain 
committed to maintaining returns to our shareholders 
via our dividend. The Board has recommended a dividend 
of US4 cents for the 2012/13 year, and committed 
to maintaining the US4 cents payment in 2013/14. 
We aim to progressively grow our dividend in line 
with future performance. 
Finally, these results and the transformation of the 
business would not have been possible without the 
efforts of our committed colleagues. Those who will 
leave the Group with the disposals, and those who 
remain, have done an excellent job in meeting the needs 
of our customers. On behalf of the Board, I thank them 
all for their efforts. 
Sir Richard Lapthorne, CBE
A focus on governance
The Board remains committed to the high 
standards of corporate governance that we 
have developed over several years.  
For more information   38
Key Performance Indicators
We track a range of measures to monitor 
our operations and services.  
For more information   14
