 2012/13 Highlights
—  US$210 million 
mobile data revenue 
in Panama and the 
Caribbean
—  17% increase in 
Panama mobile 
average revenue 
per user
—  75,000 new mobile 
customers in Jamaica 
06 Cable & Wireless Communications
Chief Executive’ s review
 “We have set a target of 
US$100 million of annual 
cost savings to be achieved 
over the next two years. ” 
Tony Rice
Chief Executive
2012/13 has been a successful year for Cable & Wireless 
Communications, and brought our business to a key 
inflection point.
As a Group we achieved ‘structural coherence’ following 
our announced divestments of the Macau and Islands 
operations – a strategy we have pursued since our 
demerger from Cable & Wireless Group in 2010. 
We are now a business focused entirely on one region, 
pan-America, where we have a great platform from 
which to build. 
This structural clarity allows us to review our operating 
model and management approach and make changes 
to create a more unified, effective and cost-efficient 
business. The streamlined business will also help us to 
adapt in the new age of telecoms where data rather than 
voice is the primary product and customer priority. 
We have established a strong foundation from which 
to grow the business, our challenge is now to deliver. 
2012/13 Performance
The business performance in 2012/13 was solid, but 
highlighted the unequivocal shift to a data-centric 
marketplace.
Mobile data revenue grew by 34% during the year 
as our customers continued to rapidly migrate on to 
smartphones. In contrast our voice revenue declined, 
particularly in fixed line services.
In Panama the growth of mobile data drove a 3% 
increase in mobile revenue, despite continued intense 
competition in the market.
Mobile data made a similar contribution to strong 
financial performance in The Bahamas, as our 4G 
network came online. We also continued to improve 
efficiency and customer experience in this market.
Our Jamaica business has struggled in the face of mobile 
competition in recent years, but following positive  Mobile data
 “Having introduced high speed mobile data 
networks in our key markets the next 
frontier is ‘Long T erm Evolution’ technology 
which will enable our customers to easily 
stream video on their smartphones. We are 
in the early stages of introducing this in 
The Bahamas and expect to launch a 
commercial proposition in 20 13/1 4. ” 
Annual report 2012/13 07
regulatory changes our team launched a terrific fight-
back campaign and increased customers by 16%. 
Trading conditions in the rest of the Caribbean were 
challenging, but we continued to enhance the services 
we deliver in markets with higher GDP and announced 
plans to build fibre broadband networks in the Cayman 
Islands and Barbados. 
We also demonstrated our ability to tackle costs during 
the year, with the outsourcing of our retail operations 
in Barbados and our network management in Jamaica 
contributing to a reduced cost base in the Caribbean. 
Performance in our other divisions, Macau and Monaco 
& Islands, was positive, with Monaco Telecom having 
benefited from the elimination of loss-making activities 
to post EBITDA 27% higher.
New operating model
Having unified our business we can now bring our 
management teams together, including moving 
our senior management closer to our operations, 
and most importantly, closer to our customers. We 
have announced plans to establish a new corporate 
headquarters in southern Florida, USA. The Group will 
remain listed on the London Stock Exchange, but our 
key corporate functions will be based in the new HQ 
and our management team will take a more operational 
approach. 
This fundamental change to our operating model will 
enable us to drive significant cost out of the business. 
We have set a target of US$100 million of annual cost 
savings to be achieved over the next two years. The 
savings will come through productivity improvement 
and the realisation of synergies as we unify the business. 
This will improve our cash flow and margins, particularly 
in our Caribbean business. Our operating margin in the 
Caribbean is currently 24% and we have set a target of 
raising it to above 30% in the medium term.
Investment
Proceeds from the disposals will also give us the financial 
flexibility to invest in the future of CWC.
Such investment will be focused on:
 —Organic – Quality network infrastructure and systems 
to deliver the best possible customer experience
 —Inorganic – Acquisitions that we can develop into full 
service businesses within our target footprint 
Having introduced high speed mobile data networks 
in our key markets the next frontier is ‘Long Term 
Evolution’ technology which will enable our customers 
to easily stream video on their smartphones. We are in 
the early stages of introducing this in The Bahamas and 
expect to launch a commercial proposition in 2013/14. 
Customer service remains a cornerstone of what we do 
and so we will continue to invest in facilities that help us 
to improve the experience we deliver. 
We have strict criteria for making investments and 
Return on Invested Capital, which we have broadly 
maintained at the same level as in 2012/13, is an 
important management measure. We are targeting 
improvements in future and key to that will be the 
pricing and bundling of the mobile data bandwidth we 
supply. We have made progress on introducing tiered 
pricing for mobile data services across our business and 
will continue to develop our customer information and 
billing systems in support of that. 
While we are saying goodbye to many valued colleagues 
through our disposals, these are exciting times for CWC. 
We have a unified business, clear strategy and strong 
sense of determination to enact the changes which will 
transform our Group and deliver long-term growth.
Tony Rice
Our pan-America opportunity
We have positioned our business to grow in a 
region with increasing demand for mobile data 
and broadband.  
For more information   08
Our strategic priorities
Our strategic priorities include pursuing organic 
and inorganic growth opportunities whilst 
improving the productivity of our business. 
For more information   13 08 Cable & Wireless Communications
Our pan-America opportunity
We want to be the leading full service 
telecoms provider in the pan-America 
region. Our rationale for concentrating 
on pan-America is five-fold:
1 There is a growing demand for data
Around the world telecoms customer behaviour is changing. Customers 
are buying smartphones and tablets and using applications with 
increasingly enriched forms of entertainment and information. 
Network speeds and capacities are increasing, enabling customers 
to download richer content like pay TV and streamed video.
As a result of these trends, the appetite for data services, particularly 
mobile data, will continue to increase.
Worldwide data traffic is growing strongly…
Petabytes/month
Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Methodology
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
+26% Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR)
110,282
43,441
54,812
69,028
87,331
…especially mobile data in Latin America
Terrabytes/month
Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Trac Forecast Update
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016
+72% CAGR
480,840
54,907
96,617
179,361
304,239 Annual report 2012/13 09
2 Full service operators are best placed to meet 
the demands of customers and operators
CWC operates networks which provide a full set of telecoms services – fixed line, 
mobile, broadband, pay TV, enterprise, social telecoms and carrier. 
Full service operators are well placed to provide customers with the best mobile 
data experience and coverage, as we are able to utilise a combination of mobile, 
fixed and sub-sea cable networks.
Our fibre broadband networks are a platform to reach other customers, and provide 
new services – pay TV for consumers, managed services for enterprises and social 
telecoms for governments.
Forecasts indicate that there will be strong growth in demand for data products 
across all our customer segments.
Forecast global demand increases 2012-2016*
53%
Consumer broadband 
CAGR
21%
Business/Government 
CAGR
76%
 
60%
Consumer TV over 
broadband CAGR 
Mobile data trac CAGR
* Source: Cisco Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Methodology 10 Cable & Wireless Communications
Our pan-America opportunity continued
3 The pan-America region has significant 
growth potential
84m 
Population* 
* Source: CIA World Factbook. Countries included: Anguilla, Antigua and Barbuda, Aruba, The Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, British Virgin Islands, 
Cayman Islands, Costa Rica, Cuba, Curaçau, Dominica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica, 
Montserrat, Nicaragua, Panama, Puerto Rico, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Martin, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, Sint Maarten, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Turks & Caicos, US Virgin Islands 
14m
Internet users*
US$689bn
GDP*
74m
Mobile 
phones* Annual report 2012/13 11
4 We are well positioned to be the provider  
of choice in pan-America
We are the leading operator in 10 out of 16 mobile markets
15 out of 16 broadband markets 
 and all 15 xed line markets we serve. 
We are investing in high capacity, reliable networks.
Our network of 
22 sub-sea and four 
overland cable systems 
carry data traffic from 
the internet to our 
customers. 
High speed mobile data 
services are available in 
six markets and we have 
upgraded our core networks 
in The Bahamas and  
St. Vincent and 
the Grenadines. 12 Cable & Wireless Communications
Our pan-America opportunity continued
Panama
Guatemala
El Salvador
Turks & Caicos
Dominican 
Republic
St. Vincent and the Grenadines
St. Kitts & Nevis
Montserrat
Jamaica
Haiti
Honduras
Nicaragua
Costa Rica
Cuba
Grenada St. Lucia
Dominica
British Virgin
 Islands
Barbados
e Bahamas
Florida
Antigua 
& Barbuda
Anguilla
CWC operations
Key
Trinidad 
& Tobago
Cayman
Islands
5 With strong potential synergies
Having focused our business on a single region we are now improving 
our productivity by creating a unified operating structure, simplifying 
the way we deliver services and reducing network costs. We have set 
ourselves a target of reducing our cost base by US$100 million over the 
next two years.
We plan to establish a new headquarters within the region in which key 
corporate and operational functions will be co-located.
Pan-America
Potential to realise significant value 
—  US$100m two year cost saving target 
—  New operating model
—  Lower headcount
—  Network efficiencies
—  Property rationalisation
—  Administrative savings
