 Friday 26 March 2010 is now a date to add to the 
long and impressive history of Cable & Wireless. 
Our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc on 
that date marked the beginning of the latest 
chapter in our 140 year history. 
When I joined this business more than four years 
ago, such a milestone seemed a very long way  
away. For many years previously, Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide had struggled to define a role for itself in 
the rapidly changing communications industry – it 
had stuttered, if not stumbled.
The process of regeneration started with Sir Richard 
Lapthorne’s arrival in 2003. By the time of demerger 
the Cable & Wireless group had been transformed. 
Contingent liabilities were avoided, the envelope  
of our activities sharpened, the share price trebled 
and the Cable & Wireless group returned firmly to 
profit. This was a successful period in the Cable & 
Wireless group’s history and I would like to extend 
my thanks and best wishes for the future to Sir 
Richard and the continuing board of Cable & 
Wireless Communications.
Our turnaround was about getting things done –  
execution.  Little had I realised that such an approach 
played handsomely to our greatest strength, our 
people. Passionate and talented yes, but more 
impressive by far was their unified commitment to 
restoring the fortunes and reputation of the business. 
This turnaround has been defined by the rapidly 
improving outcome for three constituencies: 
customers, shareholders and colleagues. 
If customers don’t see an improvement then  
it isn’t happening, if shareholders don’t see an 
improvement they don’t let you play (it’s their 
money after all) and if there’s nothing in it for 
colleagues, then our key asset literally walks  
out the door. 
Our statistics tell our story
The faith our customers place in us continues  
to increase. We have not lost a major enterprise 
customer since the start of 2006. The average 
contract length for these customers has increased 
by 22% and half of our gross margin now comes 
from customers who trust us to provide  
a managed service.
Over the last four years we have led the delivery  
of significant value for shareholders, as part of the 
broader group. The total shareholder return for 
Cable and Wireless plc was almost 65%, against 
39% for the FTSE Global Telecoms Index and just 
12% for the broader FTSE 100.
Colleagues in the business have become 
increasingly engaged in the turnaround over the 
years, evidenced by the fact that the attrition rate 
has halved over four years as our colleagues have 
led our customer service renaissance.
That’s not at all bad when you consider that for  
the last 20 months of this journey we’ve been 
tip-toeing our way through the sharpest recession  
in a generation, a crunch whose full consequences  
are still playing out. 
‘ the market opportunity is 
there and We Will simply 
continue to Focus on 
relentless execution.’
12 
business revieW
c hairman’s statement But, if our turnaround is now largely complete,  
the logical question is, “where next?”.
As we look forward, we do so knowing that our 
operating environment – regulation, competition, 
technology trends, demand levels – is 
encouraging. Certainly the rapid movements 
towards ever more bandwidth and network-centric 
applications, such as cloud computing, offer  
very real drivers for future growth. The market 
opportunity is there and we will simply continue  
to focus on relentless execution.
Somebody once said that you cannot please all  
of the people all of the time. This is particularly  
true of the investment universe. It can be difficult 
to reconcile the myriad of opinions and requests, 
and the flavour of the day changes before your 
very eyes. We have consistently delivered against 
one simple mantra: if it doesn’t create sustainable,  
long term, shareholder value then we will not do it. 
Our record to date, the best predictor of our future 
behaviour and performance, stands up to the 
closest scrutiny.
My role as a FTSE Chairman is new to me and  
I am intent on serving the Board, this business and 
its shareholders to the best of my abilities. We take 
up our new challenges well equipped for the task 
and with momentum on our side, as our results 
from the past 12 months demonstrate. 
Our Non-executive Directors, John Barton, Clive 
Butler and Penny Hughes, offer insight and robust 
challenge, borne out of experience. The Executive 
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 13
management team is a mix of those fire-tested  
by the turnaround of this business plus the fresh 
eyes and insight of Tim Weller who joined as  
Chief Financial Officer in May. We also start our  
new existence with a strong balance sheet and 
good liquidity. 
Many of our achievements to date have been 
delivered with a business which has been 
constrained by its own past mediocrity – we have 
been swimming against the tide. This is no longer 
the case. The industry trends and the business 
transformation over the last few years open up a 
wealth of opportunities both in the UK and beyond. 
So, it is with great excitement and no lack of 
ambition that we look to the future. We are seeking 
to secure our market positions, to exploit the 
opportunities we have built for ourselves and  
to create a better outcome for customers, 
shareholders and colleagues alike.
John Pluthero
Chairman
