 16 
business revieW
Q&a With the chieF executive
Q. hoW does cable&Wireless WorldWide 
diFFerentiate itselF?
Jim: Our passion for the customer is our 
differentiator. We have clearly established our 
capabilities, we have a leading product set and  
an exciting roadmap along with a great depth  
of network, but it is our approach to serving the 
customer which truly differentiates us.
We build a solution that really meet the needs of 
our customers – customers who consider their 
telecommunications infrastructure to be critical  
to their business success – and we provide the 
dedicated support required to give customers 
confidence in the solution.
Q. What pleases you most about the last  
12 months in cable&Wireless WorldWide?
Jim: Clearly the demerger at the end of March was 
a historic milestone in the history of this business, 
but what pleased me most is that Cable&Wireless 
Worldwide proved itself strong through the most 
difficult macro-economic conditions in my lifetime. 
We once again delivered on our promises with record 
profitability and cash generation. The progress that 
we’ve made over the last twelve months is testament 
to the four years of very hard work by all of the 
colleagues who have transformed this business. 
Q. have the recessionary headWinds eased?
Jim: It’s early days but the signs are very 
encouraging. Voice minutes have stabilised  
and there are signs that corporate spending  
is beginning to recover from the levels during  
the last 12 months. It is important to note  
that at Cable&Wireless Worldwide we don’t 
need a huge recovery to meet our expectations.  
There is a massive amount of market share to  
go after in the UK, both through new customer  
wins and through increasing the ‘share of wallet’  
in our current customer base where we already 
provide services to 76 of the companies in the 
FTSE 100. 
Q. are you satisFied With your delivery  
oF proFit and cash?
Jim: Yes. We delivered what we promised – that  
is satisfying. But there is no level of profit with 
which we will ever be entirely satisfied. We were 
frustrated that just as the business was positioning 
itself for growth we were hit by the recession. 
However, this business is now very well placed  
to take advantage of the changes in the industry 
and to increase profit and cash rapidly.  Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 17
Q. What are the main industry themes  
Which are aFFecting the business?
Jim: The industry themes and trends are very positive 
for Cable&Wireless Worldwide. Enterprise customers 
are becoming increasingly dependent on their 
communications infrastructure and are increasingly 
choosing their supplier on criteria beyond price. We 
believe this favours Cable&Wireless Worldwide due 
to our concentration on delighting our customers 
through our differentiated solutions and service 
ethos. Our Fixed Mobile Convergence product is 
capitalising on the shift from mobile to fixed line 
telecommunications, driven by the explosive demand 
for bandwidth. There is an increasing demand for 
fully outsourced managed hosted services – what is 
commonly referred to as ‘cloud computing’. Although 
it is still in its early stages we believe the winners here 
will have strong capability in fixed line network and in 
hosting – this places Cable&Wireless Worldwide in 
the vanguard.
Q. What are your plans in the mid-market?
Jim: I am very encouraged by the quality of the 
mid-market business we acquired through the 
acquisition of THUS Group, and having carried out 
a thorough assessment, we are fully committed to 
growing our presence in the mid-market in the UK.  
This is a £5 billion market with high margins and low 
capital requirements. We have both the network  
and the product suite to be a winner here.
Q. What is the outlook From here For  
top line revenue?
Jim: Growing top line revenue is one of my three 
priorities and it is a proof point we still need to and 
will achieve. Short term however, the voice market 
remains uncertain and, although it is lower margin, 
revenue is sensitive to this so I wouldn’t want to 
make any predictions. In our key data strategic 
product set we expect to grow revenue in 2010/11 
and beyond.
Q. What next For the business?
Jim: More of the same. The industry trends are 
beginning to favour Cable&Wireless Worldwide. 
The opportunity set is expanding. We will continue to 
focus on growing our share of the enterprise market 
by delivering a better quality of proposition and 
service to customers. I have clearly set out my 
priorities: uniqueness, growth and cash. We have  
a differentiated proposition and we will continue to 
put further, clear blue water between us and the 
competition. I believe we can deliver truly profitable 
top line growth. Cash generation is the ultimate 
measure of success; we will seek to deliver increasing 
sustainable cash flows from this business.
