 I am pleased that we generated strong results 
yet again and made real strategic progress.  
Not only did we deliver our cash and EBITDA 
guidance once again, but we also completed 
our demerger from Cable and Wireless plc.  
This is a very proud moment that has been 
years in the making. I see this as our coming of 
age, having spent four years on the turnaround of 
our business, and we now have the opportunity to 
show the world our true capability and potential.
Our primary market remains UK enterprise and public 
sector, where we continued to improve our market 
share. These customers are increasingly dependent 
on communications to ensure the smooth running of 
their business. Increasingly, they are seeing the value, 
reliability and scalability that our fully managed 
service proposition offers. It’s this realisation that a 
communications partner can add value that is driving 
our sales momentum and, in certain sectors, we now 
have clear market leadership. 
It’s not just the UK where we work with large 
enterprise customers. Our global network has 
already given us market advantage in certain 
geographies. We believe our network is still under-
exploited, particularly given the rapid increase in data 
and explosive demand for bandwidth that is taking 
place at present.
This is why we continued to make targeted 
investment in our network, through both the coming 
year’s completion of the Europe/India Gateway and 
our involvement in the West Africa Cable System. 
These investments strengthen our position in a 
number of emerging markets. Continuing the 
disciplined investment strategy of our turnaround, 
we’ve already underpinned the economics with the 
forward sale of a proportion of the capacity.
Our direct mid-market business, THUS, is already 
the professional brand in mid-market data. We are 
committed to this market and to establishing 
ourselves as the clear winner in the mid-market 
data space. In doing this we will also continue to 
work with our indirect reseller customers to build  
a significant wholesale business. 
We have our carrier business – the wholesale 
operation that’s important to any telecoms 
company in order to achieve the best network 
economics. Within this we have a fast growing  
line of business which is wholesale consumer 
broadband, supporting significant industry players 
such as Tesco Broadband and Virgin Media. 
From a product perspective, the growing demand  
for global bandwidth plays well to our extensive 
next-generation network reach and global Multi 
Service Platform (MSP). The significant interest  
in cloud computing offers us the opportunity to 
combine our high quality network and data centres 
with our managed services ethos. As cloud 
computing moves from a fringe activity to an 
accepted norm, our scale and expertise in hosting 
positions us strongly for the future.
‘ We diFFerentiate ourselves 
through our customer service.  
t his has been the bedrock oF  
our transF ormation and W ill  
remain so.’
14 
business revieW
chieF executive’s statement We are well positioned for future growth and in terms 
of our priorities for the year ahead, they break down 
into three areas: 
Uniqueness
We differentiate ourselves through our customer 
service. This has been the bedrock of our 
transformation and will remain so. Customers  
will always be at the heart of everything we do.
Growth
The delivery of profitable revenue growth remains  
a priority, with improvements in the economic 
conditions, a strong sales performance last year  
and growing demand across all our core markets. 
Cash
Sustainable cash flow that’s delivered through 
continued margin growth, continued opex reduction 
and increasingly better capex utilisation. The growth 
in cash generation will outstrip earnings growth, as 
we concentrate on improving our processes and 
pursue additional operating cost savings and as  
the exceptional cash charges reduce rapidly; we 
currently expect these to reduce by around 75%  
over the next two years. 
We’ve improved all aspects of our business and have 
achieved a scale that allows us to progress rapidly 
and I believe that the telecommunications environment 
is beginning to favour fixed line operators, with the 
demand for bandwidth outstripping anything that can 
be provided by the mobile spectrum. In addition, the 
 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 15
growing convergence of fixed and mobile is allowing 
enterprise customers to consolidate their requirements 
into a single, robust, fixed line solution.
Outlook
Market conditions are improving and we are 
experiencing good momentum in our core business 
segments and key areas of future growth, both in the 
UK and globally. We already generate 72% of our 
margin from data and 86% of our sales pipeline is in 
our higher margin strategic product set. We also see 
further scope for operating efficiencies and a steep 
downward trajectory for cash exceptional charges. 
Taking all of these factors together, we remain 
confident in meeting expectations for cash and 
EBITDA generation for 2010/11.
In summary, it is a very exciting time for 
Cable&Wireless Worldwide. Y et again, we’ve delivered 
on our commitment to our shareholders and our 
customers, and we will continue to do so. With the 
turnaround complete and the demerger now history, 
this really is our moment to build on our success, grow 
our business and deliver our full potential.
Jim Marsh
Chief Executive Officer
