 2
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 
Cairn consistently seeks to create value for its shareholders. 
It has achieved this by establishing a strong strategic position 
in South Asia, where it has made more than 25 oil and gas 
discoveries. In particular, the Company is ideally placed 
through its world class discoveries in Rajasthan to continue 
to play a part in the economic growth of the region.
Overview
For more than a decade Cairn has established a record in 
South Asia for first, finding hydrocarbons, and then 
developing these fields through to production on a fast track 
basis. Throughout this time the Company and its joint venture 
partners have invested more than $2 billion in a variety of 
exploration and production (E&P) projects that are helping to 
provide energy for the rapidly expanding economies of India 
and Bangladesh.
During 2005, Cairn grew apace to meet the task of developing 
the Mangala field against a backdrop of India emerging as an 
area of world focus for future industry activity and investment. 
Corporate
Following our recent successes in India and the consequential 
changing nature of the business we now believe the time is 
right to examine methods of increasing the local autonomy of 
our Indian business.
Various options available for realising shareholder value and 
for positioning the Company for new growth have been 
considered by the Cairn Board. Consistent with the long 
stated objective of adding and realising value for shareholders 
a review of the business has concluded that it is now an 
appropriate juncture to examine a partial initial public offering 
(IPO) of the Indian E&P business on the Bombay Stock 
Exchange, prior to first oil from Mangala and subject to 
market conditions. 
It is our view that a partial IPO of Cairn’s Indian business will 
reinforce the Company’s competitive business edge and 
established track record in India, at a time of tremendous 
future cash flow generation and so position it more effectively 
to maximise new investment opportunities in the rapidly 
expanding Indian market. Cairn will also examine methods of 
returning the substantial part of any cash proceeds to 
shareholders. Post any partial IPO, the rest of the business 
will continue to follow a strategy of adding shareholder value 
through material exploration.
 
Cairn will keep the market informed of any developments on 
the partial IPO. 
Stakeholders
Communication and interaction with stakeholders is given a 
high priority within Cairn. In November 2005 we hosted a visit 
to India for investors and analysts in order that they could see 
for themselves some of our producing assets and the ongoing 
operations in Rajasthan. The visit also allowed attendees to 
meet key people not only inside but also outside of the 
organisation, enabling them to witness first-hand the 
importance of the relationships Cairn has built up in South 
Asia and the positive approach the Government of India (GoI) 
takes to foreign investment. In the coming year the Board also 
plans to hold two of its regular meetings in India.
We have a number of community programmes in all of our 
operational areas across South Asia. The impact of our 
discoveries for Rajasthan is highly significant, not just in terms 
of revenues, but in terms of job creation and investment in and 
around the Barmer area. It was heartening for the Board to see 
the number of children going to school increasing in one 
location near the Mangala discovery because of the 
improvements Cairn has made to this school, including 
installation of solar panels on the school roof to generate 
electricity. Supporting numerous educational initiatives in 
Rajasthan has been a key focus as we start to build on the 
discoveries in the area. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Norman Murray
Chairman
 
 
 Hosted the World Oil and Gas Assembly in Jaipur.
 
 
 Secured further exploration acreage in India in NELP-V . 
 
 
 Indian headquarters moved to new premises in Gurgaon 
near Delhi.
 
 
 Hosted trips for analysts and investors and the 
international media to see some of Cairn's assets 
in India.
EVENTS IN THE LAST YEAR
   Developing the organisation to manage and 
support the business
OUR FOCUS IS... 3
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
Staff
The size of the recent Rajasthan discoveries has meant a 
significant step up in scale for the whole Cairn organisation. 
The pace of growth has meant integrating new staff and 
practices into the Company and this has been successfully 
achieved.
Cairn has opened a new Indian headquarters at Gurgaon on 
the outskirts of Delhi to provide improved support for the 
Rajasthan project team and to manage the Company’s 
business interests in India. Our people are our key asset and 
the vast majority of the Cairn workforce is indigenous to 
South Asia. 
The new staff development and performance review process 
implemented during 2005 provides an important framework 
for ensuring that all staff contribute to the success of the 
Company and continue to develop key competencies as 
we grow.
I would also like to record the Company’s congratulations to 
Sir Bill Gammell, Cairn’s Chief Executive, on the award of a 
Knighthood for services to industry in Scotland.
Outlook 
The Group’s focus on Rajasthan will continue as Cairn 
progresses the main fields from discovery to production. 
The challenge in the coming years is to build on the strong 
strategic position that Cairn has established in South Asia 
whilst capitalising on the opportunity to turn world class 
discoveries in Rajasthan into large scale developments, 
generating significant cash flow. 
The Group is well positioned to meet this challenge.
Norman Murray
Chairman
14 March 2006
Cairn is involved in an ongoing programme in Rajasthan where the Company works with local NGOs, 
and the District Administration, in providing support to the educational set up in its operational block.
Average Entitlement Production (boepd)
“ The large discoveries in Rajasthan 
continue to get bigger and have the 
potential to produce 150,000 barrels 
of oil per day.”
00
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
01 02 03 04 05
boepd
20,206
20,115
22,057
30,214
22,789
28,240
THE BOARD OF CAIRN IN INDIA
