 In a little over two years, since discovering the world class 
Mangala ﬁ eld, we have explored the basin extensively and 
now believe there are more than 3.5 billion barrels of oil in 
place within our Rajasthan acreage and this resource base 
can still grow. At current oil prices the Rajasthan ﬁ elds are 
capable of generating many billions of dollars of revenue 
over the project life for Cairn, the State of Rajasthan and the 
Government of India (GoI), whilst also helping to meet India’s 
growing import requirements.
Overview
Cairn is making good progress in Rajasthan, with various key 
milestones being achieved over the last few months. The Field 
Development Plans (FDPs) for the Mangala, Aishwariya, 
Saraswati and Raageshwari fields have been agreed by the 
joint venture Operating Committee (OC) and are awaiting 
final approval. These approvals are a precursor to formal 
sanctioning of the project by the Cairn Board which is 
anticipated during Q2 2006. The initial development 
investment for Mangala and Raageshwari gas by the joint 
venture to first oil is estimated to be in the region of $800 
million and we are on track to have financing in place to fund 
our share of the project. 
Our estimate of the Rajasthan reserve base for the three main 
northern fields (Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya) has grown 
significantly. We believe these reserves can be further 
increased by applying enhanced oil recovery (EOR) 
techniques to reach our current estimated gross resource 
base of 795 million barrels of oil (mmbbls). The combined 
southern fields estimated gross reserve base is 102 mmboe 
of which 42 mmboe is attributed to Raageshwari gas. This 
results in a combined resource base of 897 mmboe with 
further potential upside in fields with low permeability 
reservoirs. The evaluation of many of these fields continues 
and only for those fields under active development planning 
have initial reserves been currently booked.
Only 18 months ago we said the key fields in Rajasthan 
(Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya) could produce between 
60,000 and 100,000 barrels of oil per day (bopd). Today we 
believe that these discoveries have the potential to produce 
at a peak of 150,000 bopd.
Primarily as a result of the growth in the reserve base and the 
requirement to tie in additional discoveries but also as a result 
of global factors such as delays in availability of equipment 
and services, and shortages of skilled labour, Cairn currently 
considers the most likely start up date for Mangala is now 
in 2008.
Cairn has clear alignment with the GoI to bring the nationally 
important Rajasthan fields on stream as soon as possible in 
order to help meet the country’s energy needs. With the GoI 
projecting an economic and gross domestic product growth 
for India of up to 10% per annum, current estimates for crude 
oil imports, according to the GoI, will rise from 70% to 85% by 
2020. The GoI is highly supportive of both international and 
domestic oil companies increasing E&P efforts to augment 
current production.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Sir Bill Gammell
Chief Executive
It is our vision to establish commercial reserves from 
strategic positions in high potential exploration plays 
resulting in the creation and delivery of shareholder wealth. 
We focus on material opportunities that are capable of 
providing real growth to the Cairn Group. Our focus on 
South Asia has already resulted in a number of oil and gas 
discoveries and still offers the prospect of signiﬁ cant further 
value creation.
Our edge is the ability to combine our commercial and 
technical expertise and experience to leverage value from 
material opportunities. Every part of the Cairn Group is 
concentrated on supporting that expertise to ensure that 
we are creating and realising value from the successful 
implementation of our strategy. We encourage innovation 
and teamwork as key values in the process.
OUR VISION, FOCUS AND EDGE
4
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 
  Growing the value of the Company 
OUR FOCUS IS... Results
Cairn has implemented IFRS in 2005 and has also adopted a 
successful efforts based accounting policy in preparing its 
2005 Annual Report & Accounts. Comparative figures have 
been restated to reflect these revised accounting policies. 
Cairn is also reporting its financial results in US dollars for the 
first time as this aligns the presentational currency of the 
Group’s financial statements with the principal underlying 
functional currency of the business. 
Average daily entitlement production for 2005 was 28,240 
barrels of oil equivalent per day (boepd) (2004: 22,789 boepd).
The 2005 results include the first full year of production from 
the 37 .5% interest in Sangu acquired from Shell (transaction 
completion date 30 June 2004). Field deliverability from both 
Sangu and Lakshmi has been enhanced following successful 
infill drilling campaigns in the latter part of 2004. Due to the 
Group’s current entitlement production being heavily gas 
biased and the existence of contractual caps on the price 
received for this gas, the average price realised for 2005 was 
$25.44 per boe (2004: $24.06 per boe).  Revenue for the year 
was $262.6m (2004 restated: $172.9m). 
Operating profit (pre exceptional items) and operating cash 
flows were $55.6m and $139.6m respectively (2004: $12.8m 
loss and $138.5m). The exceptional gain on sale of $15.3m 
arising in 2005 was in relation to the ONGC transaction that 
completed in March 2005, realising $135m gross proceeds. 
The Group made a profit for the year of $79.1m (2004 
restated: loss $15.7m). 
Initial Rajasthan reserves for Mangala, Saraswati and 
Raageshwari oil have been booked at the year end. As the 
depletion and decommissioning charge is calculated on a 
field basis no charges arise in the Income Statement until 
production commences. Exploration / appraisal costs 
associated with the booked reserves have been transferred 
to development / producing assets.
At the year end the Group had net funds of $95.5m 
(2004: net funds $138.3m). The Group currently has $240m 
of unutilised unsecured revolving credit facilities. Following 
Cairn’s discoveries in Rajasthan, the Group is currently 
progressing the refinancing of its debt facilities required to 
fund the associated developments. 
Outlook
With a substantial increase in the reserve base for the 
northern fields in Rajasthan and a growing resource base we 
believe now is the time to examine the potential to create two 
world class businesses, one based in the United Kingdom and 
one in India.
 
In the coming year an evaluation of the potential for a partial 
IPO of the Group’s Indian operations will be a key activity.
 
The future offers us challenges and opportunities and we 
always work in a spirit of partnership and co-operation with 
Governments and our joint venture partners. Cairn has a clear 
and consistent strategy and, with the growing industry and 
investment interest in South Asia, has an optimal opportunity 
to capitalise on its competitive edge. 
Sir Bill Gammell
Chief Executive
14 March 2006
The attitude of the Cairn team of people is critical to our 
business culture. We seek above all to:
  give and earn respect 
  empower our people 
  seek win / win relationships
  be pioneers in our thoughts and actions 
  challenge conventional thinking 
  build long term relationships 
Jan 04 Jan 06 Jan 05
2000p
1600p
1200p
0800p
0400p
0000p
VALUE ADDED
OUR ATTITUDE
Our Assets Include:
   Three processing plants:
        Suvali in Western India
        Chillimpur in Bangladesh
        Ravva in Eastern India
   12 platforms
   250 kilometres of pipelines
 5
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
“ Our focus on South Asia for more 
than a decade has put Cairn in a 
strong strategic position, particularly 
as India develops as a hydrocarbons 
and investment destination.”
