 The Mangala terminal includes the  
phased construction of four planned  
processing trains with a combined  
production capacity of 205,000 bopd,  
and potential for expansion.
Chief Executive’s Review
Sir Bill Gammell, Chief Executive
Cairn’s Rajasthan development continues  
to grow in scope and scale with first oil  
production in the second half of 2009.
We have established a material frontier  
exploration position offshore west and  
south Greenland with 72,000 km
2
 under  
licence and the company continues to  
examine options for early drilling.
Previous page
Nanortalik Port, Island of Qoornoq, 
south Greenland
BUSINeSS revIeW
16    CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Cairn strategy has always been to focus on opportunities with 
material growth potential. For more than 20 years Cairn has been 
successful in exploring for, finding and developing hydrocarbons 
and the focus on South Asia has been the cornerstone of the 
Group’s growth. Integral to the next stage of growth are the 
Rajasthan development project centred on Mangala, the largest  
of 25 current discoveries on the block and the expansion into 
frontier exploration acreage in Greenland.
India
Cairn India, in its second year of operation as an Indian listed 
subsidiary, has continued to make good progress across all  
of its business. 
The integrated upstream and midstream project in Rajasthan 
(with local power and water supply) is one of the largest onshore 
oil and gas developments in India with more than 10,000 workers 
currently involved in construction activities in Rajasthan and Gujarat.
Preparations for first oil from the Rajasthan fields are on track  
and the development of the MPT to which the bulk of the other 
field facilities will be connected is well underway. Construction  
of the 600 km heated pipeline from the MPT to the coast and  
the complex work in respect of the related facilities is on track. 
The size and scope of the Rajasthan project has substantially 
increased since the original Mangala discovery in 2004 when peak 
production was originally forecast at 100,000 barrels of oil per 
day (bopd). Today the facilities at the MPT will include the phased 
construction of four processing trains with a production capacity 
of 205,000 bopd and scope for expansion. 
The MBA fields have proven plus probable (2P) gross reserves 
and 2C resources of almost 700 million barrels of oil equivalent 
(mmboe) with a further 300 mmboe of EOR potential presently 
classified as contingent resource. Subject to the results of the EOR 
project these resources would be expected to be re-categorised 
over time as additional 2P reserves. First production from Rajasthan 
i s 	 s c h e d u l e d 	 t o 	 c o m m e n c e 	 b y 	 t r u c k i n g 	 i n 	 Q 3 	 2 0 0 9 . 	 T h e 	 p i p e l i n e	
and the significant related terminal facilities are currently being built 
to 	 be 	 r eady 	 by 	 Q4 	 2009. 	 Mangala 	 plateau 	 pr oduction 	 is 	 planned	
to reach 125,000 bopd in 2010 with overall plateau production of 
175,000 bopd expected to commence in 2011 from the MBA fields. 
The GoI is in the process of confirming multiple nominees for the 
Rajasthan crude. The pipeline routing to a nodal point within the 
existing Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) infrastructure and to coastal 
destinations gives Cairn and its partner, ONGC, access to wider 
refining capacity. In order to facilitate the trucking and sale of oil 
ahead of the pipeline completion, trial runs have been successfully 
carried out on the route from Mangala to the Gujarat coast.
More than 3,000 km
2
 in Rajasthan are now under long term 
development contract. There is further incremental production 
growth potential across this acreage as demonstrated by the 
Raageshwari East well, which flowed 500 bopd in December 2008. 
The challenge in the coming years will be to exploit the full 
resource potential in the Barmer basin in Rajasthan through the 
use of EOR techniques and through further work on the remaining 
fields including the Barmer Hill reservoirs. 
Subject to regulatory approval there is potential to extend and 
also enhance peak plateau production from the resource base  
of the Rajasthan fields above the level of 175,000 bopd.
Greenland
A significant frontier exploration position in Greenland has been 
established. Within the first year of the licence agreements a 
10,000 km 2D seismic programme in the west and south of 
Greenland has been acquired and final processed results for the 
Disko area became available in late March. The seismic results for 
the southern area are expected in April. This seismic programme 
has satisfied in full the Group’s initial four year exploration work 
programme across all of its acreage. Interpretation of these data 
sets is now underway.
The first Cairn operated exploration drilling in Greenland is 
planned for 2011. It is however the intention to undertake at least 
three drilling site surveys and to purchase certain long lead items 
this year in order to preserve the option, should a suitable rig 
become available, for exploration drilling in 2010.
Offshore west Greenland can be considered as containing three 
separate geological basin areas with various sub-basins; the eight 
blocks Cairn has acquired are spread across each of these main 
basins. The two Disko blocks, for example, lie within the Baffin Bay 
Basin, where to date no offshore drilling has taken place. 
In view of the perceived material exploration potential of 
Greenland, Cairn is still looking to enhance its acreage portfolio, 
particularly when the Baffin Bay and North East Greenland Basins 
are put up for bid by the authorities in 2010 and 2012 respectively. 
Subject to Government approval the company intends to acquire 
reconnaissance seismic along the coast of east Greenland this 
year where it has applied for a Prospecting Licence. 
Financial review
In 2008, Cairn has focused on allocating its resources to those 
assets that will drive shareholder value. At 31 December 2008 
Cairn had net cash of $898m, positive operating cash flows and 
net assets of $2.3bn.
The Group’s existing cash resources, debt facilities and cash 
flow from operations provide adequate funding to complete 
the core Mangala development project plus the pipeline and to 
commence first production in 2009. However, Cairn will continue 
to monitor the credit markets to assess current pricing, and may 
consider expanding its facilities in due course.
Cairn has always maintained a capital structure appropriate  
for its operations in exploration, appraisal and development. 
Given the background of global market conditions Cairn decided 
to strengthen its equity capital base and earlier this month raised  
a further $161m through a 5% placing of shares. 
Cairn has entered 2009 with the financial and operational 
flexibility necessary to deliver its key project in Rajasthan thereby 
providing cash flow to target the next phase of growth and 
continued creation of shareholder value.
Sir Bill Gammell
Chief Executive, 6 April 2009
Image (Above)
(Left to right) Murli Deora, Petroleum Minister, GoI; Ashok Gehlot, 
Chief Minister of Rajasthan; Hema Ram Choudhary, Revenue Minister, 
Government of Rajasthan; and R. S. Pandey, Petroleum Secretary,  
GoI; visit to Mangala Processing Terminal and inauguration of the 
pipeline work in Rajasthan in February 2009.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2008    17
