 Today Cairn’s Indian business is entering  
a period of transformational growth with  
the phased build up of oil production,  
followed by a sustainable plateau,  
from its world class oil fields in Rajasthan. 
Chairman’s Statement
Norman Murray, Chairman
Previous page
The Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan. 
Mangala production is due to commence  
in Q3 2009.
BUSINeSS revIeW
12    CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Corporate overview 
Cairn has a focused strategy for delivering organic growth  
and shareholder value. 
Underpinning the strategy for growth is the sequential 
development of our 25 oil discoveries in Rajasthan, 
complemented by a new and exciting frontier exploration  
position in Greenland. 
Cairn’s vision to create and build a business in India over the last 
15 years has been based on the firm belief in the hydrocarbon 
potential of the country and its hidden value potential. Today 
Cairn’s Indian business, operated and managed by Cairn India 
Limited (CIL), is entering a period of transformational growth with 
the phased build up of oil production, followed by a sustainable 
plateau, from its world class oil fields in Rajasthan. 
Cairn holds a similar vision for Greenland, based on the same 
belief in its hydrocarbon potential. These two areas are however  
at different stages of the exploration and production cycle; in 
Rajasthan, production will commence in 2009, whilst Greenland 
offers material frontier exploration potential, the true value of 
which has yet to be discovered.
In the first half of 2008, the Government of India (GoI) approved 
the shifting of the point where the crude would be delivered from 
the MBA fields in Rajasthan. This meant that the contractual crude 
oil delivery point moved from the Mangala Processing Terminal 
(MPT) in the Rajasthan desert to existing infrastructure hubs and 
points on the Gujarat coast, with investment in the evacuation 
pipeline included in the project. This change in development plan 
necessitated the raising of $630m of additional funds via a placing 
of CIL shares in April 2008. Following the placing, the Company’s 
holding in CIL reduced by 4% to 65%. 
In the second half of the year, the capital markets (both debt and 
equity) were difficult to access for most businesses. The main 
priority for Cairn throughout this period was to re-examine and 
re-schedule the phasing of certain key elements of the Rajasthan 
development. This was done to meet the target delivery date of 
first oil in the second half of 2009 and to ensure that the project 
remained suitably financed. 
 
The 5% placing of PLC shares announced in March 2009 has 
raised $161m to strengthen Cairn’s equity capital base in order  
to maintain operational and financial flexibility across all of its 
operations both in relation to the Rajasthan development and  
its exploration position in Greenland. 
 
India
The current focus for CIL is the delivery of the high-value 
Rajasthan project. 
The planned ultimate production capacity of the Rajasthan 
development has increased over the last 12 months as we have 
sought to optimise the potential of the resource base. The decision  
to develop the key fields in a phased manner has enhanced 
operational flexibility and allowed the initial focus to remain  
on Mangala and the export infrastructure. 
The Bhagyam and Aishwariya fields, Enhanced Oil Recovery 
(EOR), the Barmer Hill potential and other fields will follow in 
sequence when production is expected to rise to more than 
175,000 barrels of oil per day. 
Once Mangala is on stream it will generate revenues that will be 
used initially to invest in further development work in Rajasthan 
and to pay down debt. The increasing production profile will 
deliver further value from Rajasthan, which will in turn provide  
the Group with additional financial flexibility.
Greenland
Cairn’s exploration acreage position in Greenland is held through 
its 90% owned international exploration subsidiary Capricorn.  
A total of eight offshore blocks were acquired during 2008 and 
Capricorn has already completed its obligatory seismic work 
programme for the first four-year period over all of its blocks. 
Planning for an exploration drilling campaign is already underway. 
The Arctic basins of Greenland are increasingly being recognised 
as a potentially world class prospective area. In July 2008, the US 
Geological Survey (USGS) released its Circum-Arctic Resource 
Appraisal report and concluded that “The extensive Arctic 
continental shelf may constitute the geographically largest 
unexplored prospective area for petroleum remaining on earth.” 
A previous study by the USGS in 1996 recognised Greenland as 
one of the world’s top ten potential hydrocarbon destinations for 
‘yet to finds’.
Board 
I would like to record my thanks to Ed Story who stood down as a 
Non-Executive Director in January 2009 having joined the Board 
in 1997. His insight and knowledge of the worldwide oil and gas 
industry has been hugely beneficial to the Board. 
Dr James Buckee, the former President and Chief Executive Officer 
of T alisman Energy, was appointed to the Board in January 2009. 
I am also delighted to report that Mike Watts, formerly Exploration 
and New Business director is now Deputy Chief Executive of  
the Company. 
outlook
The Group intends to continue to target material growth across 
its business. 
The focus in 2009 is delivering production in Rajasthan on 
schedule and agreeing oil sales contracts with the buyers of  
the Rajasthan crude.
Cairn’s original vision for and belief in India has been borne out  
by events. This year will see production commence not only in 
Rajasthan but also from the substantial discoveries made by 
Reliance off the east coast.
Our exploration activities in Greenland are at a very early stage, 
but we firmly believe in the country’s hydrocarbon potential and 
our evaluation efforts will continue whilst we also investigate 
options for early drilling.
The next two years promise to be an exciting time for Cairn.  
With a marked increase in Group production and cash flow we  
will continue to evaluate the strategic options for further creation 
of shareholder value.
Norman Murray 
Chairman, 6 April 2009
Image (Above)
Cairn Board visit to the Mangala Processing T erminal, Rajasthan  
in December 2008.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC  ANNUAL REPORT 2008    13  
