 16  CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive
“ Following 20 years of building a material South Asian  
business, we are reaching a defining moment in Cairn’s history. 
 
The phased Rajasthan development is set to produce 125,000 bopd 
later this year with multiple buyers now lining up to take crude  
through the pipeline. The basin resource base continues to grow  
and has the potential to take production up to 240,000 bopd. CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009  17  
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
Cairn has a straightforward business model based on 
its entrepreneurial exploration and development skills. 
The Company’s aim is to differentiate itself by focusing 
on materiality and hidden value and through the creation 
of a clear strategic business edge in its activities 
and relationships. 
A 20 year vision to grow a substantial exploration and 
production business in South Asia has been delivered  
through the exploration and development successes of 
Sangu in Bangladesh, the Ravva complex of fields off the 
east coast of India, the Lakshmi, Gauri and other Gujarat 
fields on the west coast of India and the discovery and 
phased development of the Rajasthan fields.
Rajasthan oil production commenced in August 2009 and 
will continue to ramp up in 2010. The phase one Mangala 
plateau production of 125,000 bopd will be reached in the 
second half of this year, before increasing to an approved 
plateau of 175,000 bopd in 2011 with the addition of 
Bhagyam and Aishwariya. 
At the current peak plateau production level, Rajasthan crude 
will account for more than 20% of India’s overall domestic  
oil production. The full potential of the Rajasthan project to 
Cairn and to the economy of India will only be realised once  
the resource base is fully developed. As more and more fields 
and plays such as Bhagyam, Aishwariya and the Barmer Hill 
are brought onto production, Cairn envisages plateau 
production of up to 240,000 bopd.
In addition to the Rajasthan growth story, Cairn is now set 
to embark on an exciting three year multi-well programme 
as the Company starts to explore the high risk frontier 
basins of Greenland.
RAJASTHAN, INDIA
Cairn continues to improve its understanding of the Barmer 
basin and a comprehensive review of the resource potential 
in the block has been carried out. The discovered gross mean 
in place resource base has increased from 3.7 billion barrels 
of oil equivalent (boe) to 4 billion boe.
Following evaluation the exploration potential has increased  
and the prospective resource is now estimated to be a risked 
2.5 billion boe in place. The current total block potential 
resource is now 6.5 billion boe. 
The MBA fields and the smaller Raageshwari and Saraswati 
fields all have approved Field Development Plans (FDPs) which 
carry a combined proven plus probable (2P) gross reserves  
and best estimate contingent resources (2C) resources of over 
700 million barrels of oil equivalent (mmboe). In addition, the 
MBA fields have an estimated EOR contingent resource of over 
300 mmbbls; these resources are expected to be transferred  
to reserves once the EOR field trial results are known. 
There is a further estimated ~1.9 billion boe in place contained 
within the Barmer Hill Formation and the 20 other fields. 
Evaluation work is still ongoing for these discoveries and this 
year will include a pilot fraccing and horizontal well programme 
on the Barmer Hill. The reserve potential for these fields is 
currently estimated to range between 50 and 450 mmbbls.
In addition to the existing discoveries, the remaining risked 
prospective resource potential within the basin is currently 
estimated to be ~2.5 billion barrels (bbls) in 35 main prospects, 
and over 70 leads for which the associated risked prospective 
resource is estimated to range between 150 and 450 mmbbls. 
Substantial progress has been made on the Rajasthan 
integrated development in the last year. Production started 
last August at the MPT, the largest of its kind in India, with 
evacuation by trucking. The crude will shortly be transported 
through the world’s longest continuously heated and insulated 
pipeline to key refineries in north west India. 
The growth in India has enabled the Company to position  
itself as an early entrant in frontier acreage in Greenland.  
By creating substantial strategic positions in two undrilled  
basins 1,500 km apart in Greenland, Cairn continues  
to offer shareholders exposure to transformational upside  
through high risk exploration. ” 18  CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Continued
We have a strong balance sheet  
and funding in place to:
 
 MBA development
 
 campaign in Greenland
Processing Train 1 was completed in 2009 and by the middle  
of 2010, Trains 2 and 3 at the MPT will be operational, providing 
a production capacity of 130,000 bopd. When Train 4 is installed 
in 2011 the currently approved production of 175,000 bopd can 
be reached. 
Sales arrangements are now in place for 143,000 bopd with 
four refineries, namely Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals 
(MRPL) and Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) in the public sector and 
Reliance and Essar in the private sector. Discussions are ongoing 
with regard to further sales to refiners in special economic zones 
and potentially overseas, subject to GoI approval. 
Well results from the ongoing development drilling campaign 
in the Mangala field confirm the excellent reservoir quality of the 
Fatehgarh Formation, which indicates the potential to increase 
production to 150,000 bopd, subject to GoI approval and 
facility upgrades.
GREENLAND
It is Cairn’s belief that Greenland, as part of the North Atlantic 
geological province, has hydrocarbons present in its offshore 
basins; however, it will take stamina, skill and indeed luck to 
find them.
Only six exploration wells have been drilled offshore Greenland 
to date, five of which were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000. 
These wells were all located in the west Greenland basin to 
the south of the undrilled Baffin Bay basin. In none of these 
instances were the operators able to benefit from a more 
sustained campaign. 
1. Ilulissat, Greenland
 2.  Formal opening of the 
Administration building  
at the MPT 
 
3.  One of the two purpose-built  
rigs for drilling and completing 
the wells in Rajasthan CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009  19  
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
Subject to the necessary government approvals, Cairn will 
commence drilling activities in the west Disko blocks within 
the undrilled Baffin Bay basin later this year. By using two 
state-of-the-art drilling rigs Cairn is able to plan a safe multi- 
well campaign. As part of the approval process, Cairn, along 
with its partner Nunaoil and the Government of Greenland,  
has embarked on a Public Consultation Process (PCP) which 
involves engaging with a number of coastal communities in 
the Disko Bay area. The purpose of this process is to discuss 
the EIA/SIA reports for the project plan and well locations.
The proposed four well summer 2010 exploration programme 
targets ~1.6 billion of risked gross mean oil in place and ~385 
mmbbls of risked resources, (16 billion of unrisked oil in place 
and 4.1 billion bbls unrisked resources) and has been designed 
to allow operational flexibility dependent on results. 
As the Baffin Bay basin is undrilled, it does not have a 
confirmed active petroleum system; however, results from 
the 2009 surveys have given positive indications that suggest 
one may be present. The main perceived risk is the presence 
of thick and continuous source rocks offshore. Currently the 
estimated chance of success for the four prospects ranges 
from 7% to 14%. 
Geophysical surveys are also planned across the southern 
Greenland basins in the summer of 2010 in advance of a 
further exploration drilling campaign of up to four wells in 
2011, subject to necessary approvals.
The Baffin Bay bid round also takes place this year with bids to 
be submitted by 1 May 2010 and awards expected in August.
It is anticipated that this will be a very competitive round and 
Cairn plans to participate.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
During 2009, following the deterioration of conditions in 
worldwide financial markets, the Group took prompt action 
to strengthen its balance sheet. This allowed Cairn to 
continue with the programme of investment and to wait 
for credit markets to stabilise before expanding the loan 
facilities in India from $850m to $1.6bn. 
The year closed with two significant transactions – one with 
PETRONAS and one with Dyas. The Group has consequently 
entered 2010 with a stronger balance sheet and a capital 
structure fit for the extensive operational activities.
At 31 December 2009, Group net cash balances, gross of 
prepaid finance costs offset against debt under International 
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), were approximately  
$500m. CIL had net debt of $96m and undrawn loan facilities  
of $923m. The net cash balances of the rest of the Group  
were $596m.
The Board continues to focus the Group’s capital resources 
to maximise shareholder value and maintain financial and 
operational flexibility. 
Resources in India continue to be targeted on delivering the 
Rajasthan project where initial cash flows will be reinvested 
in the block. 
The enhanced financial strength of the Group has also 
enabled Cairn to accelerate the programme in Greenland
where a successful exploration campaign this summer 
could be transformational.
Sir Bill Gammell
Chief Executive, 6 April 2010
1 2
3
