 14  CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009
“ First oil from Rajasthan in north west India 
commenced in August 2009 with evacuation  
by trucking. This event marked a significant 
moment in Cairn’s development. ”
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
Norman Murray Chairman CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2009  15  
GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS BUSINESS REVIEW OVERVIEW
CORPORATE OVERVIEW 
The substantial and growing resource base in Rajasthan will 
allow the Group to generate sustainable long-term cash flows 
once evacuation of sales crude by pipeline commences this year. 
Cairn has built a strong business platform which will provide 
funds to enable the Group to:
reinvest in Rajasthan to optimise development of  
the resource base;
support exploration programmes in Greenland; and 
provide flexibility for additional growth opportunities. 
INDIA
The Rajasthan project has been a massive undertaking.  
At the peak of construction last year, approximately 16,000 
people were involved in building the MPT site, the gas and 
water processing facilities and the pipeline, making this project 
one of the biggest oil and gas production developments in  
India for many years. 
The honourable Indian Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh, 
inaugurated First Oil from Mangala in August 2009. The initial 
production is being taken by road tankers to the coast and 
shipped to refineries pending the commissioning of the 
pipeline. The main pipeline infrastructure is now in place 
and testing and commissioning is underway. Initial piped 
crude oil volumes are scheduled to be pumped through the 
continuously heated and insulated facility during Q2 2010.
With development of the Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya
(MBA) fields well underway, the focus for planning purposes  
has shifted more towards realising the full potential of the basin. 
In this process, unlocking the value of the Enhanced Oil Recovery 
(EOR) and the other fields including the Barmer Hill is of prime 
importance. The current Government of India (GoI) approved 
plateau production level for the MBA fields is 175,000 barrels of 
oil per day (bopd). Our goal is to demonstrate that the resource 
base can support potential production up to 240,000 bopd.
Working effectively with government and partners is 
fundamental wherever we operate but the complexity of  
the Rajasthan development has meant such co-operation is 
even more essential to achieve success. All parties working 
together have already delivered a clear message that India 
provides both the opportunity and the required support 
to create world-class developments.
GREENLAND
The Group’s strong financial position has allowed it to build a 
strategic early entry position in the frontier basins of Greenland, 
a country which Cairn believes has the necessary geological 
ingredients for exploration success. This is the first year of  
what is intended to be a three year exploration campaign 
drilling in various basins offshore Greenland, which could have 
transformational potential. Whilst recognising that the chances 
of success are relatively low in such frontier areas, we look 
forward to the results of the summer 2010 drilling programme. 
Cairn recognises that its activities can have an impact on the 
environment. In this regard it has policies and procedures in 
place that seek to avoid impacts wherever it operates, and these 
are implemented in accordance with international regulatory 
requirements. The Company has an established track record 
of corporate responsibility initiatives in South Asia and will 
continue to adopt the same approach wherever it operates. 
Cairn has submitted Social and Environmental Impact 
Assessments (SIA/EIA) to the Government of Greenland 
as part of the drilling approval process. 
BOARD 
Hamish Grossart has decided, after 16 years on the Board, 
not to seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting on 
20 May 2010. Hamish was appointed to the Board in 1994 
and has been Deputy Chairman of the Company since 1996. 
His business acumen and insight has been hugely beneficial 
to the Board over many years. Mark Tyndall, who has also 
decided not to seek re-election, has provided invaluable 
support and incisive input, and stands down after seven 
years on the Board.
The Company plans to appoint two new independent  
non-executive directors in the near future as replacements  
for Mr Grossart and Mr Tyndall. 
OUTLOOK
Cairn is well positioned for future growth. 
The phased delivery of the Rajasthan project and development 
of the growing resource base will continue to remain our prime 
focus for a number of years. 
Having built a strong sustainable cash generative position  
in India, we will continue to offer transformational potential  
as we explore the frontier basins of Greenland. 
Norman Murray 
Chairman, 6 April 2010
