 06 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
Chief Executive’s 
REVIEW
“ Cairn continues to believe the necessary approvals to 
complete the Vedanta transaction will be received and  
is working with the Government of India in a positive  
and constructive manner.
   The planned sale of Cairn’s majority stake in India would  
lead to a significant return of capital to shareholders  
whilst maintaining balance sheet strength and flexibility.
  Cairn is continuing its active exploration programme  
offshore Greenland which has the potential for 
transformational growth while also seeking to  
add new opportunities. ”  
 
SIR BILL GAMMELL
CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
 
Following more than 20 years of successful 
exploration, development and production 
in South Asia, Cairn has built a material 
business in India of strategic significance. 
This led to Cairn receiving an offer in  
the summer of 2010 for the purchase  
by Vedanta of the majority of Cairn’s 
shareholding in CIL.
This transaction is an opportunity to 
realise value from our strategic stake, 
return significant capital to shareholders 
and return Cairn to doing what it does 
best: taking an entrepreneurial approach 
to exploring for new hydrocarbon sources 
in frontier basins so providing shareholders 
with exposure to future transformational 
potential while maintaining balance  
sheet strength and flexibility. I would like 
to take this opportunity to extend my 
appreciation to all of those who have 
contributed to our success in India. 
INDIA
Mangala is the largest oil discovery  
in India for more than 20 years. It was 
brought on stream in August 2009 and 
inaugurated at a ceremony by the Indian 
Prime Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh. The 
initial crude was evacuated by road tanker. 
In June 2010, CIL completed the world’s 
longest continuously heated pipeline, 
which allowed Mangala production to 
increase to 125,000 bopd in August 2010. 
The next fields to be placed on production 
will be the Bhagyam and Aishwariya fields.
The Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya 
(MBA) fields, at the field development  
plan (FDP) approved level of 175,000  
bopd, will produce more than 20%  
of India’s overall domestic crude oil 
production. The resource base can 
support production of 240,000 bopd, 
subject to all required consents and 
further investment. Consequently,  
oil production from Rajasthan can 
significantly reduce India’s crude  
import costs and provide increased 
energy security for the country.  07
Business Review
Overview
Business Review
Directors and Governance
Financial Statements
Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
find out more:
www.cairnenergy.com
GREENLAND
The US Geological Survey (USGS) in  
2008 highlighted the multi-billion barrels 
of oil equivalent (boe) risked resource 
potential of the Greenland geological 
basins. The survey found the country  
to be one of the top ten ‘yet to find’ 
hydrocarbon destinations globally.  
In this context, it is noteworthy that Cairn 
operates the largest acreage position 
(102,000km
2
, which is equivalent to 15 
quadrants in the UK North Sea) and is 
currently the most active explorer in  
the country. The significant scale of this 
position means Cairn is now better able to 
consider the portfolio management of the 
risk and reward balance as its investment 
in the exploration programme continues. 
Last year, Cairn embarked on the first 
exploration programme offshore 
Greenland in ten years, and first drilling 
within the Greenland Arctic for 35 years.
In December 2010, the Government of 
Greenland announced the results of the 
Baffin Bay bid round. Cairn was awarded 
an 87 .5% interest in three blocks: Ingoraq, 
Napariaq and Pitu, with its partner Nunaoil 
(12.5%), the Greenland National State oil 
company. Evidence of the increased 
industry interest in the area was shown 
with Shell, Statoil, GDF, Conoco-Phillips 
and Maersk among the other recipients  
of block awards. 
In January 2011, the Government of 
Greenland confirmed Cairn as the Operator 
of the Atammik and Lady Franklin blocks, 
and Cairn has acquired the 47 .5% interest 
previously held by Encana. The entitlement 
interests in these two blocks are now Cairn 
(Operator): 87 .5% and Nunaoil: 12.5%.  
The acquisition of these blocks provides 
material additional prospectivity and also 
operational flexibility as they are virtually 
free of sea ice all year round.
Over the past three years, Cairn has 
acquired more than 85,000km of 2D 
seismic, and during 2010 and into 2011 
completed a record 13 consecutive 
months of continuous activity offshore 
Greenland. 
We have been greatly encouraged by the 
well results from the 2010 drilling campaign, 
which, from an exploration viewpoint, 
proved that the previously undrilled Baffin 
Bay basin is hydrocarbon-generative and 
possesses active petroleum systems. 
However, none of the wells drilled to  
date encountered thick reservoirs in the 
Tertiary section. Also, the Cretaceous 
section prognosed in the Alpha well was 
not reached in the time available due  
to an unexpectedly thick sequence of 
Tertiary volcanics. 
The geochemical analyses of the 
hydrocarbons sampled in the wells 
indicate the presence of two types of  
gas (biogenic and thermogenic) and three 
types of oil, one of which is pre-Tertiary 
and presumed Mesozoic in age, being 
similar in composition to the Itilli oil  
seeps seen onshore in the Nuussuaq  
area. It is the presence of this latter oil 
type in the Alpha well that is of particular 
interest because it demonstrates a 
working hydrocarbon system beneath  
the volcanics. It gives fresh impetus to  
the future exploration programmes in the 
offshore Baffin Bay basins as we continue 
to explore for the thick, high quality and 
prospective Cretaceous reservoirs seen  
at outcrops onshore in the Nuussuaq basin 
and further south in the Qulleq well drilled 
by Statoil offshore Greenland in 2000.
Supply vessel off Aasiaat, Greenland
CAIRN’S 
STRATEGY
Cairn’s strategy is to establish 
commercial reserves from  
strategic positions in high- 
potential exploration plays  
in order to create and deliver 
shareholder value.
The Company has focused on gaining 
early entry into key geographic regions 
such as India and Greenland. Cairn has 
an experienced senior management 
team geared to delivering value for all 
stakeholders. In the implementation 
of this strategy, the Group focuses on 
identifying assets that are capable of 
providing significant and sustainable 
growth through exploration and value 
through development. 08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
Cairn has now drilled three of the total nine exploration  
wells drilled offshore Greenland to date, previously five  
wells were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000. 
 
 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
(CONTINUED)
Cairn has now drilled three of the total  
nine exploration wells drilled offshore 
Greenland to date, previously five wells 
were drilled in the 1970s and one in 2000. 
No previous operators were able to benefit 
from a sustained campaign. Following 
Cairn’s successful operations in 2010,  
the Company’s multi-year exploration 
campaign is planned to continue in 2011. 
Subject to approval from the Government 
of Greenland, the main elements of the 
2011 exploration campaign, are:
The drilling of up to four exploration 
wells;
Three shallow (~400m) marine  
soil investigations to obtain critical 
stratigraphic information. These will  
be drilled in the north of Baffin Bay,  
the Disko area and the south  
offshore Greenland (across a distance 
equivalent to that between Edinburgh 
and Rome); and
Three 3D seismic surveys (total 
~4,500km
2
), one in the north of Baffin 
Bay, one in the south of Greenland and 
one location to be decided dependent 
on early drilling results. 
The final selection of prospects and well 
targets for the proposed 2011 exploration 
campaign will be made in May 2011. 
Cairn has again secured two state-of-the-art 
dynamically positioned drilling vessels  
for its planned 2011 dual rig exploration 
programme. Both of these drilling units 
are owned and operated by Ocean Rig. 
Cairn and its partner Nunaoil are currently 
completing a public consultation process 
with regard to the 201 1 exploration 
programme. The process includes engaging 
with a number of communities along the 
western coast of Greenland and the 
submission of Environmental and Social 
Impact Assessment studies. Feedback from 
these consultations will be used to tailor  
the programme to minimise and mitigate 
against any potential negative impacts.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
This year, the Group has delivered record 
revenues of ~$1.6 billion, profit after tax 
before exceptional items of ~$1.1 billion 
and operating cashflow of ~$837 million.
Group net cash at 31 December 2010, 
after taking account of the $674 million 
debt drawn, was $404 million (2009: $524 
million) including $217 million held by 
Cairn India.
The Board continues to focus the Group’s 
capital resources to maximise shareholder 
value and maintain financial and 
operational flexibility.
Sir Bill Gammell
Chief Executive
21 March 2011 09
Business Review
Overview
Business Review
Directors and Governance
Financial Statements
Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
The Stella Don drilling vessel, contracted for the 2010 drilling programme Subject to Greenland Government approvals,  
in 2011 Cairn plans to: drill up to four exploration 
wells; conduct three shallow (~400m) marine  
soil investigations; and acquire three 3D seismic  
surveys of 1,500km 
2
, following encouraging  
results from the 2010 exploration campaign.
Nuuk, Greenland  
