 02 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
Chairman’s 
STATEMENT
The Group’s strong financial position and  
entrepreneurial exploration focus has allowed  
it to build a strategic and leading early entry  
position in the frontier offshore basins of Greenland. 
 
NORMAN MURRAY
CHAIRMAN 
 
CORPORATE OVERVIEW
Highlights of 2010 include:
The successful startup of piped oil 
production from the large Mangala 
field in India, contributing a record 
turnover of $1.6 billion and profit  
of $1.1 billion;
The commencement of our potentially 
transformational multi-well and 
multi-year exploration drilling 
programme offshore Greenland; and
The announcement of the proposed 
part sale of up to 51% of Cairn’s 
shareholding in Cairn India (CIL) to 
Vedanta Resources Plc (Vedanta).
Rajasthan crude is now transported to a 
number of Indian refineries by the world’s 
longest continuously heated pipeline, which 
was built, and is operated, by Cairn India. 
This infrastructure is strategically important 
as it means all the remaining fields and 
discoveries can be tied-in to the pipeline  
as they are developed. The total resource 
base supports a combined potential 
production of 240,000 barrels of oil per  
day (bopd), subject to further investment 
and Government of India (GoI) and joint 
venture (JV) partner approvals. 
The accelerated multi-well and multi-year 
exploration campaign planned in the 
frontier basins of Greenland means  
Cairn is now the largest acreage holder 
offshore Greenland and the most active 
operator in this new frontier. There is 
heightened industry interest in this region, 
as exemplified by the number of major oil 
companies participating in the Baffin Bay 
bid round in May and the subsequent 
block awards in December. 
INDIA
The IPO of Cairn India in 2007 provided  
a return of $1 billion cash to Cairn 
shareholders and generated sufficient 
financial flexibility to allow the fast-track 
development of Cairn’s (discovered and 
appraised) world-class fields in Rajasthan. 
The completion of the first phase of the 
Rajasthan development represents a 
significant milestone for the Cairn Group, 
with the Mangala field now producing at  
an initial plateau rate of 125,000 bopd.  
The overall development project is now 
materially de-risked from a technical and 
commercial perspective, and demonstrates 
significant shareholder value creation.
In the summer of 2010, Cairn was 
approached by Vedanta with a proposal  
to purchase the majority of Cairn’s equity  
in Cairn India. This presented Cairn and  
its shareholders with an early opportunity  
to realise a large proportion of the value 
created. The proposed transaction  
was agreed and announced by the two 
companies in August, and approved by 
Cairn and Vedanta shareholders in Q4 2010.  03
Business Review
Overview
Business Review
Directors and Governance
Financial Statements
Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
The transaction is currently awaiting  
GoI approval.
GREENLAND 
The Group’s strong financial position  
and entrepreneurial exploration focus has 
allowed it to build a strategic and leading 
early entry position in the frontier offshore 
basins of Greenland, a country which Cairn 
believes has the necessary geological 
ingredients for exploration success.  
Cairn currently operates 11 blocks with  
a combined area of 102,000km
2
, which is 
equivalent to 15 quadrants or 450 blocks 
in the UK North Sea.
Cairn successfully drilled three wells and 
acquired 15,000km of seismic offshore 
Greenland in 2010, and all operations  
were carried out safely and without a 
major incident. 
In January 2011, Cairn increased its equity 
interest to 87 .5% and became operator of 
the sub-Arctic Atammik and Lady Franklin 
blocks offshore west Greenland. These 
prospective blocks are virtually free of sea 
ice throughout the year and consequently 
offer a potentially wider operating window.
To conduct its planned 2011 exploration 
campaign offshore Greenland, Cairn has 
contracted a sixth-generation drill ship  
and a fifth-generation semi-submersible 
drilling unit to drill up to four wells during 
the summer. Cairn also intends to acquire 
three 3D seismic surveys (approximately 
1,500km
2
 each); two of the surveys are 
planned over high-graded lead and 
prospect areas, whilst the exact location  
of the third is yet to be decided. 
Wherever it is active, Cairn seeks to 
operate in a safe and prudent manner  
and recognises that our activities can  
have an impact on the environment.  
The Greenlandic Bureau of Minerals and 
Petroleum has established some of the 
most stringent operating regulations 
anywhere globally, which mirror those 
applied in the Norwegian North Sea.  
The Greenland Government and Cairn put 
a thorough and robust operations strategy 
in place even before the incident in the 
Gulf of Mexico. Following this industry 
incident, the Greenland Government and 
Cairn reviewed the planned exploration 
programme to ensure that the lessons 
learned which were not already part of  
the Greenland drilling operations plan 
were captured and applied to the 2010 
exploration drilling programme.
PEOPLE
I would like to recognise all the creative 
effort, hard work and commitment the 
management, employees and contractor 
teams working in South Asia for Cairn have 
put in during our work in this region for 
more than 20 years. Working effectively with 
government and partners is fundamental 
wherever we operate, but the complexity  
of the Rajasthan development in particular 
has meant that such collaboration was 
critical to achieve success. Cairn’s 
experience has shown it is possible to build 
world-class businesses and, when the time 
is right, to realise value for shareholders.
Cairn no longer has any interests in 
Bangladesh after 16 years of exploration, 
development and production activities. 
During this period, Cairn discovered, 
developed and brought to production 
the offshore Sangu gas field and I would 
like to thank all the past and present  
Cairn personnel who were involved  
during this period.
I would also like to thank the asset 
management and project teams working 
on the Greenland programme over the  
past three years and, in particular, everyone 
involved during the first year of the drilling 
operations in 2010. The safe and efficient 
operations undertaken by Cairn is a 
testament to the hard work, dedication and 
commitment shown by all those involved. 
BOARD
Two new independent non-executive 
directors, Ms M. Jacqueline Sheppard  
QC and Alexander Berger, were appointed 
in 2010 to the Cairn Energy PLC Board.  
Ms Sheppard was previously Executive 
Vice-President, Corporate and Legal at 
Talisman Energy Inc. in Calgary, a post she 
held for 15 years. Mr Berger is currently 
CEO of Oranje-Nassau Energie B.V., a 
private Dutch exploration and production 
company based in Amsterdam and active 
both in the North Sea and internationally. 
These appointments greatly strengthen 
the industry knowledge represented on 
the Cairn Board, and continue the Board’s 
goal of striving for diversity among its 
directors and senior executives.
OUTLOOK
The potential completion of the Vedanta 
transaction would uniquely position Cairn 
to return significant value to shareholders 
whilst retaining the financial flexibility to 
continue to focus on Cairn’s core expertise 
in exploration. 2011 looks set to be an 
exciting year for Cairn as we continue  
to pursue future growth opportunities. 
Norman Murray 
Chairman 
21 March 2011
The Cairn Energy PLC Board visit to Rajasthan in September 2010 Record revenues of approximately  
$1.6 billion, profit after tax before  
exceptional items of ~$1.1 billion and  
operating cashflow of ~$837 million.
Initial Mangala production plateau  
of 125,000 bopd reached in August 2010.
Mangala Processing Terminal, Rajasthan  
