 22  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Chairman’s Statement
We can now look forward with 
confidence, excitement and 
ambition to building the future 
of the Company in new strategic 
directions from a position of 
significant strength. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SiR Bill Gammell 
Chairman Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  23    
Business Review
L
ast year represented a watershed  
in Cairn’s corporate history. The sale  
of the majority of our holding in CIL  
to Vedanta in December 2011 marked the 
culmination of an effective twenty year 
association with the economic growth of the 
sub-continent. We can now look forward with 
confidence, excitement and ambition to building 
the future of the Company in new strategic 
directions from a position of significant strength. 
Following the Rajasthan discoveries in 2004, 
Cairn elected to float its Indian business on  
the Bombay Stock Exchange and National 
Stock Exchange of India in 2007, thereby 
establishing CIL as a majority owned but listed 
subsidiary of Cairn. Proceeds from the IPO 
enabled approximately $1 billion to be returned 
to shareholders, demonstrating the Company’s 
focus on not just creating, but also crystallising 
value, while a further $1 billion was re-invested 
in the business. The Company ceded control  
of its Indian business late in 2011, when we 
completed the sale of 40% of CIL to Vedanta. 
The net proceeds of the Vedanta sale were 
approximately $5.4 billion, allowing a cash 
return of $3.5 billion to shareholders in February 
2012. This brings the total cash returned to 
shareholders in the past five years to 
approximately $4.5 billion. 
The remaining 22% shareholding in CIL, 
currently valued at ~$2.9 billion by the Indian 
market, along with current cash of ~$1.2 billion, 
provides financial flexibility and an excellent 
platform for Cairn to pursue future growth 
opportunities.
India
Cairn’s success in South Asia has created 
significant value for shareholders and Cairn 
India has one of the fastest growing production 
profiles of any company in the world. In 
particular, the desert site at Mangala has  
been transformed by the construction of the 
MPT, hundreds of wells have been drilled and 
infrastructure is now in place, including the 
longest heated pipeline in the world, to take  
the Mangala and other crude to market.
A significant consequence of concluding  
the Vedanta transaction is that the Rajasthan  
JV is now aligned around a vision to increase 
substantially production from the Rajasthan 
fields. Achieving this vision will require further 
capital investments, partner and regulatory 
approvals as well as the cooperation of the 
Government of India (GoI).
It is a great source of pride that Cairn has made 
a difference wherever it has operated across 
the sub-continent and its success is testament 
to a longstanding vision that a well-balanced 
exploration and production portfolio could be 
built in South Asia. 
The oil output from Rajasthan helps the  
Indian economy as it reduces imports and 
generates revenue for the Government, while 
the investment made by CIL and its partner, 
ONGC, into the exploration and development  
of the area has provided work for thousands  
of people, and provided significant community 
investment and support.
Greenland
Cairn operates approximately 40% of the 
currently contracted exploration acreage  
in Greenland. Several of the world’s major  
oil companies now have a presence in  
the country (including Shell, Exxon, Statoil, 
Chevron, Conoco, Maersk and GdF). Of the  
14 wells that have been drilled by the industry 
in Greenland to date, eight have been drilled  
by Cairn. 
Whilst we have to date not established 
commercial quantities of hydrocarbon, we 
remain convinced that all of the ingredients  
for success in Greenland are present and we 
are delighted to welcome Statoil as a partner  
in the Pitu Block. 
All of the first stage work programme 
commitments have been fulfilled on our 
acreage throughout Greenland and we are  
well placed to seek partners in selected areas 
in the future.
Board
A number of changes to the composition of the 
Board of Directors took effect from 1 July 2011.
Norman Murray decided to stand down  
and turn his energies and attention to new 
challenges following 12 years on the Board, 
nine as Chairman. Norman contributed 
enormously to the growth of Cairn during  
this time, providing constructive challenges, 
wise counsel and valuable guidance. 
Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer,  
and Philip Tracy, Group Engineering and 
Operations Director, also stepped down  
from the Board. Both Malcolm and Phil  
made substantial contributions to the  
success of Cairn over the last 22 years.
In Norman’s place, the Board decided that  
I should become Chairman and Simon Thomson 
should be appointed Chief Executive. 
Simon has been with Cairn for more than  
15 years and has played an instrumental role  
in the delivery of Cairn’s strategy, including 
accessing the opportunities that Greenland 
offers as well as delivering value from Cairn’s 
interests in South Asia. Simon’s energy and 
abilities are of outstanding value to Cairn and  
he has made a hugely positive impact in  
leading the business in his new role.
Jann Brown became Managing Director and 
Chief Financial Officer in light of widening 
responsibilities including Human Resources, 
Corporate Affairs and Company Secretarial.
Dr Mike Watts continues in his role as Deputy 
Chief Executive. 
The executive team of Simon, Jann and Mike  
is well-placed to lead the Group into the future 
and continue the strategic focus of delivering 
significant growth potential in new directions. 
The Cairn Board continues to pursue diversity 
among its directors and senior executives: 
currently two of its nine board members  
are female. 
Outlook
Cairn’s vision is to become the exploration 
company of choice for governments and 
investors by offering transformational 
exploration potential within a well balanced 
exploration and production portfolio. 
The completion of the transaction with  
Vedanta crystallises the significant value  
we have delivered from the Indian business, 
allowing us to return approximately $4.5 billion 
to shareholders over the last five years. With  
a strong balance sheet and the first Greenland 
farm-down completed, Cairn is well-positioned 
to access new opportunities and further growth 
in 2012 and beyond.
Sir Bill Gammell 
Chairman 
23 March 2012
