 24  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 24  Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
Business Review
Chief executive’s 
Review
Cairn wishes to offer investors 
exposure to transformational 
organic growth potential through 
securing high equity exploration 
positions in prospective frontier 
geological basins.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Simon T Hom Son 
Chief e xe Cutive Discover Cairn Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011  25    
Business Review
C
airn is in a process of evolution,  
triggered by the sale of a majority 
shareholding in CIL to Vedanta.  
The Company’s strategy remains the same:  
to focus on exploration-led organic growth.
Cairn wishes to offer investors exposure  
to transformational organic growth potential 
through securing high equity exploration 
positions in prospective frontier geological 
basins. Exploration in these basins, if 
successful, can have a material impact on  
the Company’s net worth because of the 
prospective volumes and the normally attractive 
commercial terms appropriate for the risk.  
This exploration activity, however, needs to  
be funded from within a balanced portfolio  
of assets capable of generating sustainable 
cash flow from producing properties and 
augmented with industry farm-downs. 
As has previously been demonstrated, Cairn 
aims to return value to shareholders at the 
appropriate time through mechanisms such  
as one off special dividends, following the 
grow-and-shrink, or ‘saw-tooth’, exploration-led 
strategy, which has served the Company well in 
the past.
The Vedanta transaction has been one of  
the key strategic goals for the Company to 
complete in the last twelve months. It allowed 
a return of $3.5 billion of cash to shareholders 
and provides the Company with the financial 
flexibility and strength to pursue new 
opportunities in areas where the Company 
believes it has the ability to build and grow. 
The Rajasthan project is of national importance 
and, at current prices, can be expected to 
generate well over $100 billion of revenues  
for the GoI and the Rajasthan State. The 
residual 22% shareholding Cairn now holds in 
CIL is viewed by the Company as an important 
investment asset from which further value can 
be realised at the appropriate time. 
Cairn will aim to maintain its focus on balance 
sheet strength which provides an engine for 
future growth. At all times, we seek to apply 
strategic and capital discipline across the 
business in both existing operations and in 
reviewing new opportunities. Our growth 
strategy is to seek exposure for shareholders  
to transformational exploration potential but  
to deliver this within a sustainable and balanced 
portfolio. In practice, this means we will seek  
to build cash flow from near term exploration, 
development and producing properties. The 
management focus is on delivering growth and 
corporate development opportunities in line 
with robust corporate development criteria.
Greenland
Cairn has built a strategic and leading early 
entry position offshore Greenland, a country 
which we believe has the necessary geological 
ingredients for oil and gas exploration success.
Commercial quantities of hydrocarbons  
have yet to be discovered, but the first phase  
of our exploration programme in Greenland  
has demonstrated that all of the geological 
ingredients necessary for success are present. 
We remain encouraged by the prospects and 
opportunities presented by exploration offshore 
Greenland and our understanding of where to 
direct future activity continually evolves as we 
interpret our extensive and growing database, 
allowing us to focus on where we best see 
material and transformational potential. After 
pioneering four years of active exploration 
operations across several basins of Western 
Greenland, the Company has a unique data 
base from which it is well positioned to be 
selective and focused in high grading certain 
areas. Future exploration drilling activity will 
initially be focused on prospects within the Pitu 
block in the undrilled Baffin Bay Basin. Statoil’s 
farm-in to the Pitu block confirms Cairn’s view 
of its potential and supports the industry view 
of the Baffin Bay potential, as exemplified by 
the presence of Shell, Conoco, GdF, Maersk 
and Statoil in adjacent acreage.
A number of exciting play types have been 
identified on the Pitu block, which is geologically 
separate from other parts of West Greenland. 
The extensive shallow coring programme 
undertaken by Cairn across the block in 2011 
confirms the presence of micro oil seeps above 
structural closures already identified. All of the 
exploration evidence acquired to date points to 
the Baffin Bay Basin being oil generative and 
having multi-billion barrel potential. 
The 3D seismic acquired over Pitu in H1 2011  
is currently being processed, with final results 
expected in May/June 2012. Subject to the final 
interpretation of those results, exploration wells 
will be planned for the Pitu prospects. We are 
delighted to be working with Statoil on this 
block given their extensive knowledge and 
track record in exploration, development and 
production in the Arctic.
In Disko and other basins to the South, we  
have already fulfilled our work obligations.  
We continue to evaluate the data acquired 
across these basins, but will not be proposing 
further exploration activity until we have 
partners in selected areas, including the 
undrilled southern Greenland basin where  
we are currently processing the 3D seismic 
acquired in 2011. 
Mediterranean 
The Company was awarded two exploration 
permits in Spain in January 2011. These permits 
comprise five blocks at 100% interest in the 
Gulf of Valencia, which is underexplored.  
It is planned to acquire a 3D seismic survey 
(1,500km²) over part of the acreage in 2012.
Commercial terms in Spain are attractive  
as the authorities try to stimulate exploration 
activity in frontier areas. Cairn has recently 
opened a small office in Madrid and is currently 
pursuing other acreage in Spain because of  
the perceived exploration potential.
As previously reported, Cairn also intends to 
participate, along with our consortium partners, 
CC Energy Development S.A.I (an associated 
company of CCC, a Lebanese private company) 
and Cove Energy PLC, in the upcoming bid 
rounds expected this year in both offshore 
Lebanon and Cyprus, subject to commercially 
suitable terms. The Cyprus round has recently 
been announced and bids are to be submitted 
in May 2012 with awards expected towards the 
end of the year. The Lebanon round has not yet 
been formally announced but it is currently 
anticipated mid-year. 
Conclusion
In the last year, we committed to delivering four 
strategic priorities: first of all, completing the 
sale of our Indian business; secondly, returning 
cash to shareholders; thirdly, beginning the 
‘farm-out’ process in Greenland; and, finally, 
opening up new business opportunities.
We have delivered on the first three strategic 
priorities and management’s focus is now on 
corporate development and future growth 
opportunities.
I look forward, along with the rest of the 
management team, to leading Cairn as we  
seek to create and deliver value for shareholders. 
Cairn’s key strength of entrepreneurial 
exploration remains the focus of the Group, 
offering investors significant growth potential  
in combination with underlying asset value  
and balance sheet strength. 
Simon Thomson 
Chief Executive 
23 March 2012
