 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Operated exploration programme
James Smith: 2013/2014 saw us embark upon  
a focused drilling exploration programme with a 
series of operated exploration wells. Importantly, 
these wells were delivered at appropriate equity 
levels and therefore the right financial exposure  
for this business. 
Simon Thomson: This exploration programme was 
all about play opening wells, in acreage we believe in, 
and that is exactly what we have achieved in opening 
a new basin offshore Senegal. 
We are delighted with the success to date offshore 
Senegal. As part of our strategy we have been building 
and shaping a balanced portfolio with our North Sea 
development and ultimately production assets on the 
one side, and exploration on the other side. As you 
would expect exploration activity in new basins is 
higher risk and not every well is going to be successful; 
however , this delivery of exploration success in 
Senegal is evidence of our strategy working. 
India
Simon Thomson: We have a great relationship with 
India. This is a country where we have spent many 
years working, where we have discovered, developed 
and produced oil, delivering significant value both  
for Cairn shareholders and for India. We are now 
working closely with the authorities in India to seek  
a resolution to the tax issue. Our approach has  
been to focus on continued engagement with  
the Government of India and to that end we are 
continuing our programme of targeted, regular 
meetings with many stakeholders in India. Resolving 
this issue will continue to be a high priority for us. 
James Smith: The freezing of our asset in India  
was an unexpected event and we moved quickly  
to ensure we remained able to deliver our work 
programme and longer-term strategy in the absence 
of those funds. This was principally achieved by 
accelerating the timetable for bringing in debt 
financing for our North Sea development activities. 
We are of course hoping for a resolution in India 
but the important thing is that the business remains 
funded through to the point of delivering free cash 
flow from our North Sea projects.
Success in Senegal
Simon Thomson: Senegal is a great example of 
Cairn’s business model delivering for shareholders. 
We had a strong technical belief in the potential of 
the acreage and this belief has been realised with 
success in both wells drilled to date. 
James Smith: We have made discoveries in two 
separate plays, which have the potential to be 
transformational for Cairn and Senegal. Right now 
we are focused on working on appraisal and further 
exploration programmes to fully establish the value 
in our large acreage position. 
Simon Thomson: James and I were recently in 
Senegal and we met with our Joint Venture partners 
including Petrosen (the national oil company), the 
Minister of Energy and the President Macky Sall,  
who is also a geologist. They are incredibly supportive 
and we all recognise that these discoveries, in the 
longer term, are potentially transformational for 
Senegal as a country.
In discussion with
Simon Thomson, CEO and James Smith, CFO
Discover more: Opening a new Atlantic margin basin
P13
13
Discover more: Cairn in India
P29
29
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22 15 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
 “ Right now, maximum value for the business and  
our shareholders is in Senegal, because it has the 
potential to add substantial value beyond what  
we have already discovered.” 
Shaping the organisation
Simon Thomson: We pride ourselves on being  
an established, proficient, safe and fast operator .  
We have proven ourselves time and time again to be 
technically, commercially and financially skilled and we 
are focused on protecting those core competencies. 
At the beginning of this year we recognised that we 
needed to reorganise the business to ensure that 
Cairn was the right size of company for the work 
programmes ahead. We were absolutely clear that 
our priority would be to retain and protect all of 
those core competencies which means our technical, 
commercial and financial skills; skills which are the 
foundation of this business and which have enabled 
us to achieve success in previous years. 
James Smith: We have a great technical team, but we 
also have a great commercial and financial team. It is 
that combination of high quality competencies and 
teams which delivers value by marrying technical 
beliefs with a clear strategy and business model.  
In addressing the organisational structure we have 
retained those core technical skills as well as a strong 
leadership team, whilst delivering a reduction in the 
central cost base. Following a staff consultation 
process the reorganisation was completed at  
the end of 2014, with staff and contractor 
headcount reduced by approximately 40%.
Developments
Simon Thomson: Our development activities which 
form the core of a North Sea portfolio of more than 
30 licences are a core element of our long-term 
sustainable business model. They balance our 
portfolio with exploration on the one side and cash 
and development activity on the other . From 2017 
we anticipate production and free cash flow from 
these assets with production estimates of around 
22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net to Cairn. 
James Smith: The cash flows from this production 
will be critical to supporting a self funding business 
model over the medium and long-term. We keep  
a disciplined focus on projects right across the 
portfolio which deliver strong returns even in  
a lower oil price environment and this includes 
making sure our North Sea development 
investments are in line with that strategy. 
Outlook
James Smith: As we have said before, discipline in 
the optimal allocation of capital is critical, even more 
so in the current weaker oil price environment.  
We will continue to focus on this and on ensuring 
that we have the right equity exposure across our 
portfolio. We have demonstrated our abilities as 
prudent managers of our portfolio throughout  
the year , including our ability to trade and swap 
assets particularly within our North Sea portfolio.  
As a result we start 2015 in a strong position  
to deliver an exciting programme across the 
portfolio, especially in Senegal.
Simon Thomson: Right now, maximum value for the 
business and our shareholders is in Senegal, because 
it has the potential to add substantial value beyond 
what we have already discovered. So this is where  
we will be focusing our efforts and we do expect this 
opportunity to keep us busy for a considerable time 
to come. However , we have built a diverse, balanced 
and solid portfolio and we will continue to progress 
our programmes elsewhere, with particular focus  
on our core North Sea developments, and to work  
on our other assets to ensure the entire portfolio 
remains balanced and in good shape. 
Discover more: Working responsibly, People
P46-47
46
Discover more: North Sea development
P17
17
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22 16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 16
Kraken FPSO is under 
construction in the  
Keppel boat yard, 
Singapore. 17 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Cairn has built a strong position in the UK and Norway,  
as part of its North West Europe portfolio, by acquiring  
exploration, appraisal, development and production assets  
and participating in licence rounds. 
2014 key story
Kraken and Catcher , two of the largest new projects in 
the UK North Sea, are the Group’s core development 
projects. They are both under development and will 
provide free cash flow from 2017 with peak net 
production to Cairn of ~ 22,500 boepd. At the peak of 
production in 2017 /2018 it is anticipated that Kraken 
and Catcher combined could account for around 7%  
of UK total daily boe production
1
. 
Cairn has an experienced team dedicated to the UK 
and Norway with offices in London and Stavanger . 
More recently Cairn has entered the Barents Sea 
and is in the process of applying for operatorship  
in Norway, both of which leverage Cairn’s Arctic 
operational experience and Norwegian presence. 
The UK and Norway region represents a critical  
part of the Group’s strategy of having a balanced  
and sustainable portfolio. The mature basins  
of the North Sea provide balance to the broader 
exploration portfolio and will deliver the free cash 
flow to sustain future exploration. The North Sea  
is an active market for asset transactions enabling 
Cairn to continually optimise its portfolio within the 
region as well as its wider capital allocation. 
North Sea 
development
Estimated peak net production
~22,500 boepd
Catcher
Premier (operator , 50%)  
Cairn 20%, MOL 20%, Dyas 10%
The Catcher field was discovered in 2010 in block 
28/9a of the central UK North Sea. Follow-up  
wells in the block then discovered the Varadero, 
Burgman, Carnaby and Bonneville fields. There are 
four adjacent licences to the Catcher licence and, 
combined, these make up what is known as the 
Greater Catcher area. 
In 2014 a Field Development Plan (FDP) for  
the development of the Catcher , Varadero and 
Burgman fields was approved by DECC and 2P 
reserves were booked. The development will 
comprise a Floating Production Storage and 
Offloading (FPSO) facility which is currently  
under construction in Singapore and will be 
capable of processing 60,000 bopd. 
The development will be located 170km south  
east of Aberdeen in water depths of ~90m. 
Development drilling will start in 2015 with more 
than 20 wells expected to be drilled over a period 
of more than four years. 
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak 
production to Cairn of ~ 10,000 boepd. 
Kraken
EnQuest (operator , 60%)  
Cairn 25%, First Oil 15% 
The Kraken field was discovered in 1985 in block 
9/2b of the UK North Sea, followed by the Kraken 
North field in 2013. Combined, these two fields 
make up the Kraken development. The Joint 
Venture is continuing to evaluate additional 
opportunities in the block.
The FDP for the Kraken development was 
approved by DECC in 2013 and the FPSO vessel, 
which will be capable of processing 80,000 bopd,  
is currently under construction in Singapore. 
The Kraken field is located ~350km north east of 
Aberdeen and ~ 125km east of the Shetland islands 
in water depths of ~ 115m.
Development drilling will start in 2015 with 25 
wells expected to be drilled over a period of more 
than four years. 
First oil is anticipated in 2017 with net peak 
production to Cairn of ~ 12,500 boepd. 
1.  Based on Oil and Gas UK Activity Survey 2014. 18 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2014 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial  
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which are used to 
monitor progress in delivering the Group’s strategy. 
Maintaining a balanced portfolio
Purpose
Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Achieve exploration and appraisal 
success through the discovery of 
commercial hydrocarbons 
Mature Basin:
Invest in exploration and appraisal 
activities in the UK and Norway sectors 
of the North Sea which will add net  
2C resources in excess of 10 mmboe 
Frontier Basin:
Invest in exploration and appraisal 
activities in Morocco, Senegal and 
Republic of Ireland which will add  
net 2C resources in excess of  
40 mmboe
The Group successfully discovered potentially commercial 
hydrocarbons in Senegal through the drilling of the shelf 
edge well (SNE-1) and the North fan well (FAN1).  
The SNE-1 well added 120 mmbbls of 2C resources.  
Further technical evaluation is required to determine  
the commerciality of the FAN-1 well. 
Elsewhere, the Foum Draa and Cap Juby wells in Morocco 
and the Ensis and Aragon wells in Norway and the UK  
were unsuccessful at the primary exploration target. 
It was predetermined that a significant discovery  
in either of the mature or frontier basins would  
result in the KPI being achieved.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Achieved
Mature high impact exploration 
prospects ready for drilling in  
2015 or 2016
Mature a minimum of six new 
independent “drill-ready” prospects in 
each category (mature /frontier basin) 
which meets the Group’s investment 
criteria and which could be considered 
for drilling in 2015 or 2016 
A number of prospects in Senegal, Morocco and Norway 
were matured to “drill-ready” status for 2015 or 2016. 
Prospectivity in Mauritania and the Republic of Ireland 
continues to be assessed. The Group participated in the 
UK 28th licensing round in 2014, when a “drill-ready” 
prospect was identified and a firm well commitment bid 
was made. 
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Partially  
achieved
The 2014 KPIs, which were set out on  
page 28 of the Annual Report and Accounts  
2013, related to delivering a sustainable business, 
maintaining a balanced portfolio and achieving 
operational excellence. 
The Group’s 2014 KPIs were reflective of the early 
stage in the value creation cycle, unlike the more 
traditional KPIs for oil and gas exploration and 
production companies (such as production or 
operating cost targets), which the Board currently 
considers are not relevant as a measure of the 
Group’s performance. 
Good progress has been made across the 2014  
KPIs and a brief update on progress is presented  
in the table below. 
The final decision on the overall achievement of the 
KPIs was made at the Remuneration Committee 
meeting in December 2014. 19 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Purpose
Deliver operational excellence in all 2014 activities and maintain licence to operate
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Successfully complete  
operated and non-operated  
2014 work programmes
Deliver all operated and non- 
operated asset projects (technical 
studies, surveys, seismic and drilling 
programmes) on schedule and budget 
(including manpower costs), with full  
data recovery
Cairn, as Operator , acquired 2D seismic offshore Malta and 
3D seismic offshore Republic of Ireland and participated  
as non-operator in the acquisition of 3D seismic offshore 
Western Sahara, all of which was successfully completed on 
time and budget. T wo exploration wells were executed on  
or below budget (Foum Draa offshore Morocco and Ensis  
in the North Sea). Due to some unscheduled maintenance 
requirements on the Cajun Express rig, the FAN-1 well 
offshore Senegal and the Cap Juby well offshore Morocco 
were over budget and schedule. The Aragon well in the 
North sea was also over budget.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Partially  
achieved
Progress North Sea development 
projects, remaining within 10% of 
capital guidance and first oil dates 
scheduled within six months of project 
sanctioned base case estimates
The Catcher and Kraken development projects are 
progressing well and remain within 10% of capital guidance. 
The Catcher project remains on track for first oil in 2017 
and the Kraken project remains on track for first oil in 2017 
subject to the timely delivery of the FPSO.
Discover more: Operational review
P22-27
22
Achieved
Deliver our activities with a strong 
focus on not harming people or 
damaging the environment
Minimise injuries and environmental 
incidents in 2014 operated activities: 
 – Total Recordable Injury Rate  
(TRIR) target of less than  
2.0 TRI/million hours
 – No oil spills to the environment
The T otal Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) of 3.88 per million 
hours remains higher than the target of 2.0 per million hours. 
This compares well with 5.04 in 2013 and the overall trend 
of improvement year on year continues.
There has been no oil spill to the environment in 2014.
Discover more: Working responsibly
P42-57
42
Partially  
achieved
Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE 
culture, behaviours and approach 
Achieve targets for ten HSE leading 
performance indicators (LPIs) across  
the areas of:
 – Knowledge of HSE procedures
 – Engagement with contractors 
regarding safety standards
 – Communication of HSE approach 
and performance
 – HSE risk assessment and 
management
The 2014 LPIs progressed well. An extensive engagement 
programme with contractors was completed to raise 
awareness of the Group’s HSE procedures and to deliver key 
HSE messages through senior management briefings. The 
HSE risk assessment and management LPI was achieved 
through enhancements to the travel risk assessment and 
project risk management processes. A programme to raise 
awareness and knowledge of the Group’s HSE procedures 
was completed with the delivery of workshops on topics 
such as corporate responsibility and human rights. HSE 
communications improved with HSE now a standing agenda 
item at staff meetings and HSE papers presented at all Board 
meetings. Some further work is required in embedding and 
enhancing the HSE cultural framework. 
Discover more: Working responsibly
P42-57
42
Partially  
achieved
Seeking operational excellence
Delivering a sustainable business
Purpose
Maintain a self funding business plan 
2014 KPI Measurement 2014 performance
KPI Remuneration 
Committee decision
Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including 
undrawn committed banking facilities  
to meet planned funding commitments 
plus a cushion at all times 
The Group remains funded to deliver its firm exploration 
and the development programme through to free cash flow 
from 2017.
Discover more: Financial review
P30-33
30
Achieved 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
2015 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) 
The 2015 Group KPIs in the table below were set by the Board in 
December 2014 and are based on the Group’s current portfolio, 
prospects and objectives set out in the 2015 Business Plan.
Maintaining a balanced portfolio
Purpose
Grow the reserves and resources base to provide a basis for future growth
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Achieve exploration and appraisal 
success through discovery or addition  
of commercial hydrocarbons in 2015
Invest in exploration and appraisal activities which will add net  
2C resources in excess of 20 mmboe
 – Lack of exploration success
 – Reliance on Joint Venture (JV) operators  
for asset performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Mature high impact exploration 
prospects ready for drilling in  
2016 or 2017 
Mature a minimum of four new independent “drill-ready” prospects 
which meet investment criteria and which could be considered for 
drilling in 2016 or 2017 
 – Inability to identify or secure prospective 
acreage at prices which can generate  
reasonable returns
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Active portfolio optimisation  
and acreage protection 
Declaration of Commerciality for Sangomar , Sangomar Deep  
and Rufisque blocks in acceptable timeframe to maximise  
acreage retention
 – Failure to maximise Senegal acreage position
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
On board the Cajun 
Express drilling rig, 
offshore Senegal.  21 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Purpose
Deliver operational excellence in all 2015 activities and maintain licence to operate
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Successfully complete operated and 
non-operated 2015 work programmes
Deliver all operated and non-operated asset projects (technical 
studies, surveys, seismic and drilling programmes) on schedule  
and budget (including manpower costs), with full data recovery
 – Operational and project performance
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance
 – Staff recruitment and retention
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Progress North Sea development projects, remaining within 10%  
of capital guidance and first oil dates scheduled within six months  
of Final Investment Decision (FID) base case estimates
 – Kraken and Catcher development projects not 
executed on schedule and budget
 – Reliance on JV operators for asset performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Secure a suitable rig for further exploration and appraisal  
in Senegal
 – Operational and project performance
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Deliver activities with a focus on the 
safety of people and the environment
Minimise injuries and environmental incidents in 2015  
operated activities: 
 – TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR/million hours
 – No oil spills to the environment
 – Health, safety, environmental and security 
incidents
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Continue to enhance the Group’s HSE 
culture, behaviours and approach
Achieve targets for HSE LPIs linked to elements of the  
HSE culture framework 
 – Health, safety, environmental and security 
incidents
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
Seeking operational excellence
Delivering a sustainable business
Purpose
Maintain a self funding business plan 
Objective 2015 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI
Retain balance sheet strength Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn committed banking 
facilities to meet planned funding commitments plus a cushion  
at all times  
Make tangible progress on Cairn India Limited (CIL) shares freeze
 – Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding
 – Potential tax liabilities relating to Indian Income 
T ax Department enquiry
 – Uncertainty in fiscal regimes
 – Operational and project performance
 – Kraken and Catcher development projects not 
executed on schedule and budget
 – Inability to access internal or external funding
Discover more: How we manage risk
P34-41
34
