 07 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
Chairman’s statement
Ian T yler
Cairn is well positioned
2014 was a challenging 
year both for Cairn and  
for the wider E&P industry. 
In January, Cairn was 
notified of the previous 
Indian Government’s 
decision to freeze our  
10% holding in Cairn  
India Limited, following  
the introduction  
of retrospective  
tax legislation. 
Ian T yler
Chairman
9 March 2015
During the second half of the year and continuing 
into 2015, oil prices have fallen sharply, causing all 
players in the sector to reassess capital plans and 
focus on cost efficiency. On a more positive front,  
the Senegal discoveries in Cairn’s significant acreage 
position offshore West Africa provide a material 
opportunity for the company to create substantial 
shareholder value from a potentially world  
class asset. 
During the year , we reconfirmed our strategy to 
deliver value from discovery and development within 
a sustainable, self-funding business model. Cairn is 
well positioned with a strong balance sheet and is 
well funded through to cash flow sustainability from 
our North Sea assets. Furthermore, management’s 
early action, which included a fundamental 
rationalisation of the business whilst retaining our 
core geological and exploration skills, has ensured 
that the company can operate effectively in the 
current low oil price environment. 
Senegal presents an exciting opportunity which we 
continue to evaluate. As a result of the reduction in 
oil prices, Cairn is able to benefit from substantially 
lower industry costs as we prepare for the 2015 
appraisal and exploration programme. 
In India, we note the comments made by the new 
BJP Government about the impact of retrospective 
tax legislation and the negative signal it sends to the 
international investment community. Our approach 
to date has been to focus on engagement with the 
Government of India and resolving this matter 
clearly continues to be a high priority. 
Following the 2014 AGM, as part of our long term 
succession planning, a number of significant changes 
to the Board took effect: Sir Bill Gammell retired as 
non-executive Chairman and I succeeded him in this 
role. Dr Mike Watts, Deputy Chief Executive and 
Jann Brown, Managing Director and Chief Financial 
Officer stepped down as Executive Directors. James 
Smith was appointed as Chief Financial Officer . 
James joined in March 2014 from Rothschild where 
he had been a longstanding adviser to Cairn. Finally, 
Dr James Buckee retired as a non-executive director . 
After standing down as Executive Directors, Mike 
and Jann continued in senior roles for six months 
focused entirely on seeking to resolve the tax 
situation in India. 
I would like to recognise and thank both our 
employees and our contractors for all their hard 
work and diligence in getting Cairn through a difficult 
year in 2014 and into a position of strength as we 
look forward to 2015.
