 08 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
T wo significant discoveries  
offshore Senegal
The combination of balance sheet strength, 
development stage assets with a clear path to cash 
flow generation and a balanced exploration and 
appraisal portfolio allows the Company to fund 
future exploration activity and to repeat the cycle of 
creating, adding and realising shareholder value. In 
2014, we positioned the Group for future growth by: 
i. Discovering oil offshore Senegal in both wells 
drilled in the exploration programme.
ii. Participating successfully in the UK 28th 
Licensing Round and Norwegian 2014 APA 
Licensing Round.
iii. Selective farm-ins and farm-downs, including  
the sale of a 10% interest in the Catcher 
development in the North Sea.
iv. Accelerating the financing of our development 
projects.
v. Progressing the Catcher and Kraken 
developments, which remain on track with free 
cash flow generation anticipated from 2017 .
vi. Maturing prospects across our portfolio to drill 
ready status for 2015/16.
vii. Booking 2P Reserves on the Catcher 
development and 2C Resources in Senegal.
2014 was marked by two significant discoveries 
offshore Senegal, successfully opening a new 
hydrocarbon basin, with the SNE-1 discovery 
recognised as potentially the largest global oil 
discovery in 2014. The discoveries occur in two 
separate plays and have significant follow on 
potential within our acreage.
The Cairn team planned and executed a safe and 
successful two well exploration campaign in less than 
20 months following the initial announcement of  
the farm-in to Senegal in early 2013. The strong JV 
partnership comprising Petrosen, ConocoPhillips 
and FAR Limited with Cairn as the Operator , has a 
shared vision of the prospectivity and potential of 
our large acreage position.
CEO’s review
Simon Thomson
Cairn’s strategy is to create and deliver value from 
the discovery and development of hydrocarbon 
resources. We achieve this from a balanced 
portfolio and a sustainable, self-funding  
business model. 
Simon Thomson
Chief Executive
9 March 2015 09 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Financial statements Additional information Leadership and governance Strategic report 
 “We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an exciting programme 
across the portfolio, especially in Senegal, which has the potential  
to add substantial value beyond the discoveries made to date.” 
Simon Thomson, CEO and Macky Sall, 
President of Senegal.
We have established an office in Dakar with a local 
and international team who are working closely with 
the Government, suppliers and local communities.  
I was delighted to lead a country visit in November 
2014 along with executive management from 
ConocoPhillips to meet with President Macky Sall. 
We were encouraged by the support of the 
Senegalese authorities, and we all recognise that 
these discoveries, in the longer term, are potentially 
transformational for Senegal as a country, as well  
as for Cairn. 
Cairn’s exploration and appraisal assets in the Atlantic 
Margin, North West Europe and the Mediterranean 
are underpinned by Kraken and Catcher , two major 
North Sea development projects. The future cash 
flows from these projects will support a self-funding, 
sustainable business model over the medium and 
long term. From 2017 , we anticipate free cash flow 
from these assets with a production estimate of 
around 22,500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net  
to Cairn. We keep a disciplined focus on projects right 
across our portfolio to ensure they deliver strong 
returns even in a lower oil price environment and 
our North Sea development investments are in line 
with that strategy. 
In early 2014, Cairn received notice from the Income 
T ax Department of India citing 2012 retrospective 
legislation and requesting information relating to  
a group reorganisation in 2006. At the same time, 
the Income T ax Department restricted Cairn  
from accessing the value of its remaining ~ 10% 
shareholding in Cairn India Limited (CIL), then  
valued at ~US$1billion. 
The freezing of our asset in India was an unexpected 
event and measures were swiftly introduced to 
ensure that the Company remained able to deliver  
its work programme and long-term strategy in the 
absence of access to these funds. 
First of all, the timetable for bringing in debt 
financing for our North Sea development activities 
was accelerated. A Reserve Based Lending bank 
facility of US$575m was put in place in July and  
this currently remains undrawn. 
Secondly, the business was re-organised to ensure 
we had the right size of company for the work 
programme ahead. The priority was to retain and 
protect the core technical, commercial and financial 
competencies which form the foundation of Cairn 
whilst outsourcing non-core capabilities and 
reducing costs. The resulting new organisational 
structure was completed in early 2015 with a  
40% reduction in the number of employees and 
contractors in the business. 
Thirdly, we looked to re-balance our portfolio.  
In September , we announced a farm out agreement 
to Dyas UK Limited for the sale of a 10% interest in 
the Catcher development and adjacent acreage in 
the UK North Sea for a carry of Cairn’s exploration  
and development costs up to a cap of US$182m, 
effective from 1 January 2014. As a result of this 
transaction, which was successfully completed  
in January 2015, Cairn reduced forward capital 
expenditure to the end of 2017 by ~US$380m  
and also retained a 20% working interest in the 
Catcher licence with first oil expected from 2017 .
The above measures strengthened our financial 
position and our ability to create and deliver value 
through a sustainable, repeatable and self-funding 
business model. 
Outlook
We start 2015 in a strong position to deliver an 
exciting programme across the portfolio, especially 
in Senegal, which has the potential to add substantial 
value beyond the discoveries made to date. We have 
built a diverse and balanced portfolio and created 
the financial flexibility to progress our exploration, 
appraisal and development programmes and ensure 
ongoing strategic delivery. 
