 The strong operating platform that we have built will place
Cambrian in a strong position to meet the challenges of a
weakening world economy.
2 Cambrian Mining Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
After five years of rapid growth the past year was one of
consolidation for Cambrian. Our acquisition of Coal
International Plc was launched during the 2008 financial year,
but completed on 1 August 2008. Cambrian is now a focussed
mining company owning 100% of three individual mining
operations and 50% of one other producing thermal coal,
metallurgical coal, gold and antimony. In addition, we continue
to be the major shareholder in Western Canadian Coal Corp.
(‘WCCC’) and, through it, have a 42.96% (34.4% fully diluted)
interest in three metallurgical coal mines and two processing
plants in North East British Columbia.
We have faced many challenges since our inception in 2002,
not the least of which has been assembling a team of
professionals to consolidate our early entrepreneurial success,
and provide a sound platform for the future. In July 2007,
the Board appointed Mark Burridge as Chief Executive to
lead the Group through a strategic change process. Mark
has built an experienced team to overcome the financial and
management challenges that continually face a group
operating on three continents.
Cambrian’s Financial Statements are extensive and complex.
The 2008 Financial Statements were materially affected by
International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRSs’) revaluation
requirements in relation to derivative instruments. These
instruments include warrants and conversion options attached
to certain loans and debentures that Cambrian has advanced
to some of Cambrian’s associates as well as to its own $27
million convertible loan notes and those issued by associates.
The revaluation of these derivative instruments does not have a
cash flow effect and the accounting treatment is explained in
more detail in the Financial Review and in Note 1 to the
accounts.
We are pleased with the results for 2008 Financial Year, which
show the Group generating a £29.2 million profit from
continuing operations before exceptional derivative
revaluations and tax.
Chairman’s Statement
John Byrne
Executive Chairman In addition to the corporate development programme,
Cambrian has continued to provide financial, strategic and
corporate support to all our group companies and associates
enabling the operations teams to progress fully their
expansion plans.
The review and restructuring process has taken longer
than anticipated, but I am pleased to report that it is
nearing completion. In recent weeks, the process has been
complicated by the sharp deterioration in the world economy.
This has had a significant impact on the market value of
all companies.
However, our West Virginian operation has firm pricing
and a solid order book through to December 2009 and WCCC
has contracted all its output at very high prices through to April
2009. The anticipated strong cash flows from these operations
place Cambrian in a robust position for the future, and we
are optimistic that the decisive government intervention
will underpin the global economy and worldwide growth in
demand for our products.
I would like to thank all of our employees for their tireless
commitment to the growth of our Group and acknowledge
the support of my fellow board members.
John Byrne
Executive Chairman
12 November 2008
Cambrian Mining Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 3
The key transactions undertaken and objectives met by the
Group were the sale of Falls Mountain Coal Inc to Western
Canadian Coal Corp., assisting the refinancing and ongoing
strategic review of WCCC; acquiring the outstanding share
capital in Coal International Plc; continuing to develop our
gold/antimony mine at Costerfield, Australia; the disposal of our
interests in Asian Mineral Resources (‘AMR’); and, preparation
to divest our interest in Xtract Energy Plc (‘Xtract’).
Our operations have continued to expand in West Virginia, in the
United States, through Western Canadian Coal Corp. in Canada
and at Costerfield in Australia. The West Virginia coal operations
(‘Atlantic Development & Coal’) are on track to increase coal
production in the 2009 financial year. Through the acquisition
of Coal International Plc we now hold over 50% of Energybuild
Group Plc (‘Energybuild’).
During this expansion programme, safety has remained a key
priority and I would like to congratulate all the operating teams
for their excellent safety records, which have been recognised
in Western Canada and West Virginia through industry awards.
This year we undertook a Strategic Review which was
completed in April 2008. The objectives of the Review were
to address the following:
• Simplify Cambrian’s structure and clarify its
corporate objectives;
• Unlock value traps and build a platform to create
further value; and
• Capitalise on the current environment for coal and
gold prices.
The first strand of the Strategic Review was to acquire 100%
of Coal International Plc by way of a scheme of arrangement.
This was successfully completed in August 2008.
The second strand of the Strategic Review was to maximise
the value of our interest in WCCC. We have participated in a
strategic review process which has been undertaken by WCCC
with the assistance of Morgan Stanley. At the time of writing,
this process is still ongoing.
The third strand of the Strategic Review resulted in a
decision to distribute a majority of our Xtract shares to our
shareholders by way of a dividend in specie. Whilst this
remains our intention, the timing is under review in light
of the current market conditions.
