 Camco Annual Report and Accounts 2010 22
“ We have, in 2010, achieved  
our ambitious business targets  
and delivered significant impact  
to our customers and partners.” 
During 2010, we completed a company turnaround to 
re-focus our activities in each of our regions. Strategically 
and operationally, the business is now focused on 
reducing emissions and developing clean energy  
within an increasingly positive regulatory environment.
Across all regions we operate in, there is consensus by 
regulators that emissions must be reduced and clean 
energy developed. This creates different regulation, 
incentives and opportunities with the same goal – 
reducing emissions.
Camco’s core capability is taking emissions and 
transforming them into energy. Moreover, we help  
create policies and transform regulation into business 
action. Across Camco this is the single activity we all 
share around the world. We help clients adapt to the 
evolving policies, thus creating better business and  
a cleaner economy.
Our in-country local teams work with businesses  
and governments to deliver emission reductions and 
develop clean energy. With our core technical and 
financial capabilities we have, in 2010, achieved our 
ambitious business targets and delivered significant 
impact to our customers and partners. 
Now firmly in its delivery phase our Carbon Project 
Development business is performing well. During the year, 
we developed a large pipeline of clean energy projects  
in North America and Asia, which will turn emissions into 
energy. We also raised capital for a joint venture in South 
East Asia and established a development platform in North 
America. Lastly, we have successfully restructured our 
advisory business to deliver its largest profit to date.
Performance
Carbon Project Development
In the carbon business, in China we accelerated 
registration of new projects and at 8.1m tonnes we  
have delivered more than double the issuance of the 
previous year (2009: 3.3m tonnes). This is thanks to  
our diligent and experienced technical team as well  
as efficiency improvements in the registration process 
implemented this summer by the UN Executive Board.  
Our emphasis this year was to accelerate carbon credit 
delivery and get our projects through the qualification 
process and issuing. This will continue in 2011. During  
the past year, we were also able to execute a number of 
profitable commercial transactions in the European and in 
the US markets delivering additional value through sales.
In South East Asia we developed a large portfolio  
of carbon projects, mainly in Vietnam, Indonesia  
and Thailand. The portfolio covers a range of project 
types, such as hydropower, waste-water treatment and 
cogeneration technologies. These were transferred to  
our recent joint venture in South East Asia, which is certain 
to further develop our efforts in the region. For more 
information on the joint venture please see page 12.
Russia completed the first tender approval of Joint 
Implementation (JI) carbon projects. Our team had a 
great success receiving two approvals from the first 
batch of tenders. 
In the US our team has rapidly developed our agricultural 
carbon portfolio and in addition we purchased a portfolio 
of existing US carbon projects. Camco is now the leading 
carbon developer in the agricultural waste-to-energy 
sector in the United States and is a leading provider  
of offsets from livestock projects through the Climate 
Action Reserve (CAR). This positions us well as a  
primary supplier of credits to the California carbon 
market, which is due to commence at the end of 2011.
Business Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Scott McGregor, Chief Executive Officer 23 Camco Annual Report and Accounts 2010
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Clean Energy Project Development and Investments
This year marked a quantum leap forward for Camco in 
developing clean energy projects. In our target regions 
South East Asia and China we have secured funds 
available for investment in emissions-to-energy projects 
and have developed a pipeline of projects ready for 
investment in the US. In North America we established  
a development platform for agricultural methane to 
energy projects.
In South East Asia we have formed a joint venture  
with Khazanah Nasional Berhad, the investment holding 
arm of the Government of Malaysia. The joint venture  
has been capitalised at an initial amount of USD 30m, 
which is available for investing in clean energy project 
development in the region. Investments in Asia will focus 
on industrial energy efficiency, biogas and biomass, 
leveraging our growing expertise in these sectors and  
the developing regulatory environment. In the coming 
year this will be an area of focus and we are planning to 
deploy this capital and build up our energy asset base. 
Energy and Carbon Advisory 
Our advisory business has done exceptionally well  
this year; moving from a €1.7m loss in 2009 to a profit  
of €0.8m. This was only possible thanks to the success  
of our team in winning new business, focusing delivery  
and growing our client base in the UK and Africa. 
Management restructuring has also led to significant  
cost reductions. 
In the UK, we have won €5.8m in new contracts. Across 
the business, 2010 sales targets have been exceeded. 
This year we will be looking to enhance our offering  
by strengthening client relationships and cross sales 
between the different sector consultants. We will continue 
to grow our client base supported by regulatory changes 
as well as a growing demand for clean energy and 
energy efficiency programmes.
In Africa, we have established ourselves as industry 
experts and have implemented a number of high impact 
projects in Kenya, South Africa and Tanzania. Last year 
Camco won several new advisory contracts such as 
developing the Climate Change Strategy for some of  
the largest platinum mining companies in the world.  
Other advisory successes include the development  
of South Africa’s Renewable Energy Feed-in Tariff 
Structure and follow-on contracts in Botswana and 
Uganda. Our REDD projects in Eastern Africa will  
furthermore provide us with great operational  
credibility as this sector develops. 
Outlook
The Company is in a strong position across all our 
markets after its 2010 turnaround and best performing 
year to date. Governments and industry agree, across  
all the markets we operate in, that carbon emissions  
must be reduced and there is a push through incentives 
and policy to build clean energy projects. Given the 
performance and focus of the business, we are in a  
prime position to seize the current opportunities, grow  
our project business, deliver the current portfolio and 
build value for our customers and shareholders. 
I am looking forward to an exciting year of growth ahead 
as we build on our 2010 achievements.
Scott McGregor, Chief Executive Officer
21 February 2011
“ Given the performance and focus  
of the business, we are in a prime 
position to seize the current 
opportunities, grow our project 
business, deliver the current 
portfolio and build value for our 
customers and shareholders.”
