 A platform for growth
2013 has been a year of consolidation for Cape. 
We set out to stabilise the Company after the 
challenges of 2012 and have achieved that goal, 
delivering a steady performance against a 
backdrop of mixed market conditions.
The financial turnaround since 2012 represents 
the foundation of what we believe will be a strong 
future for Cape. We have made good progress  
in executing the first phase of our strategy and 
actions taken during the year have put in place  
a solid platform to support future growth. 
Operational excellence has been a key element of 
this phase and is being embedded in our culture. 
In 2014 we will increase our focus on the growth 
phase of our strategy by broadening our portfolio 
of critical industrial services, cementing our 
customer relationships and through focused 
geographical expansion. We have already taken 
our first steps towards this growth strategy in 
2014 with the acquisition of Motherwell Bridge,  
a market leader in services for the oil and gas 
tank storage market.
Enhanced management team
2013 marked the first full operating year of the 
new executive management team which has 
implemented significant improvements in the 
operating and control environment across the 
Group. As a next step in the development of this 
team, Steve Connolly, previously responsible for 
our UK, Europe and CIS region, was appointed 
as Chief Operating Officer effective from January 
2014. This appointment will both ensure an 
efficient implementation of our new operational 
processes across the Group and allow our  
Chief Executive to focus on delivering the  
growth phase of our strategy.
Improved risk management
The previously reported challenges in Algeria  
and Australia in 2012 have been addressed. 
Moving forward, we have strengthened our risk 
assessment processes and sought to embed a 
more open and transparent culture across the 
business. As already announced, we identified a 
challenging project in Qatar in 2013 on which  
we took an onerous contract provision. Although 
this was disappointing, it is encouraging that our 
improved management and operational controls 
enabled the issue to be identified early and 
remedial action to be taken in a timely manner. 
Nevertheless, this serves to emphasise the 
importance of our strategy of focusing on 
operational excellence in order to deliver 
consistent performance.
Strong safety record
Cape has an uncompromising approach to health 
and safety and I am pleased to report that our 
safety record remained at a high standard during 
the year. The safety of our workforce is our 
highest priority – our goal is zero harm. Our 
commitment to safety has once again been 
recognised by our customers with a number of 
accolades during the year, including ‘Winner of 
the Safety Award for Contractors’ from BAPCO, 
and for the second year running ‘HSE Performer 
of the Year’ from Borouge. We are extremely 
proud of our safety record, and the dedication of 
all of our people in sustaining an environment and 
culture that instils the critical importance of safety 
in all our employees, whilst delivering a high 
quality service to our clients. We believe that it is 
this combination of safety and quality delivery that 
has enabled Cape to forge a leading position in 
the market with strong relationships with our 
blue-chip international client base.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to achieving  
the highest possible standards of corporate 
governance as we believe compliance with  
these standards is in the best interest of all our 
stakeholders. Our commitment to this policy 
throughout the year has resulted in a further 
strengthening of our governance and we will 
continue to review and identify where, if 
necessary, improvements can be made to  
ensure we maintain a best in class standard of 
transparency, disclosure and across all other 
areas of corporate governance. 
Dividend 
We are recommending a final dividend for 2013  
of 9.5 pence (H2 2012: 9.5 pence) reflecting our 
confidence in the delivery of our strategy and  
the encouraging prospects for the Group.  
With the interim dividend of 4.5 pence  
(H1 2012: 4.5 pence), this results in a full-year 
dividend of 14.0 pence (2012: 14.0 pence). This is 
subject to shareholders’ approval at the Annual 
General Meeting on 14 May 2014 and the final 
dividend will be payable on 6 June 2014 to 
shareholders on the register as at 9 May 2014.
Conclusion
The operational challenges faced by  
Cape have been identified and substantially  
addressed, putting the business on a stable 
platform for future growth. We will continue to 
focus on improving the operational effectiveness 
of the Group whilst entering the growth  
phase of our strategy. This will enhance our 
competitiveness and strengthen our position in 
our chosen markets. I would like to thank all of 
Cape’s employees for their continued efforts and 
commitment to the much needed cultural and 
organisational change achieved during the year. 
Tim Eggar
Chairman 
18 March 2014
In 2013 we have been establishing our platform  
for growth.
Chairman’s  
statement
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 06
Overview Directors’ governance report Page 60
We now have a well-balanced Board, with 
experienced and capable executive directors 
who are driving significant improvements to 
Group performance and governance controls 
and a non-executive team that adds value 
through their industry-specific knowledge  
and functional experience.
Nomination Committee Page 67
The Committee has continued to monitor  
the effectiveness of the Board and has noted  
a considerable improvement over the last  
12 months.
Remuneration Committee Page 77
The Committee has worked with our external 
advisers and with the senior management  
team to further improve the alignment of 
management and shareholder interests  
through implementing challenging  
remuneration structures.
Audit Committee Page 70
We have worked closely with both the new 
Chief Financial Officer, and the new external 
auditor, to oversee an improvement of Cape’s 
control environment.
Tim Eggar
Chairman
Tim Eggar
Chairman 
Nomination Committee
Brendan Connolly
Chairman 
Remuneration Committee
Michael Merton
Chairman 
Audit Committee
 Governance
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
07
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 08
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report Strategic report: 
Business structure 
10 Strategy
12 Business model
14 Drivers and markets
16 Risks and opportunities
24 Key performance indicators 
Strategic  
report: 
Business  
structure
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
09
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
