 Overview
We have focused throughout 2013 on 
implementing the first phase of our strategy  
to stabilise our business by driving operational 
excellence across the Group. Although this 
phase is on-going, we have made significant 
progress in installing operational rigour and 
establishing a robust platform for future growth.
We delivered a much improved performance  
in 2013 with the UK business continuing to 
deliver strongly, the Arzew project completed 
in-line with the plan set out early in the year  
and a successful implementation of the 
restructuring and performance improvement  
of our Australian business, offsetting weaker 
market conditions in CIS. It was disappointing 
that a strong year for our Middle East and 
North Africa (MENA) business was negatively 
affected by the previously announced provision 
for an onerous contract in Qatar.
Whilst 2013 has been a year of consolidation, 
the Group has identified a number of long-term 
growth opportunities and we are now working 
hard to ensure that we are well positioned to 
capture those opportunities.
Market conditions 2013
Market conditions were mixed across the 
Group’s three regions as a number of major 
new capital investment programmes in the oil 
and gas and mining industries were delayed. 
As anticipated, this resulted in lower activity 
levels of construction services in a number of 
our markets. The volume of construction 
service contract awards is expected to increase 
in late 2014 and 2015 as a number of new  
oil and gas projects reach the stage of 
development where Cape’s services are 
required. Demand for maintenance services 
remained steady.
Demand across the UK, Europe and CIS  
region was variable with the UK market flat and 
a marked reduction in activity in Kazakhstan  
as key projects completed early in the year  
and investment by our clients in new projects 
was deferred. Activity levels were also subdued 
in Sakhalin due to the timing of shutdown 
related maintenance work. We anticipate that 
activity levels in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan  
will increase as we move through 2014, with 
major project activity increasing into 2015.
Market conditions across the Middle East 
varied significantly country by country with 
increasing investment in new downstream oil 
and gas infrastructure in Saudi Arabia, but 
lower levels of construction service work in 
Qatar and UAE. The maintenance market 
remains robust across the region. Both the 
construction and maintenance services 
markets have become more competitive with 
domestic and overseas competitors targeting 
market share growth, putting downward 
pressure on pricing.
The Asian construction services market  
has been subdued throughout 2013, but  
is anticipated to grow over the medium to 
long-term with a number of large oil and gas 
projects planned in order to meet the growing 
demand for energy and industrial expansion in 
the region. We have recently appointed a new 
Group Business Development Director who will 
be based in the region and will have a particular 
focus on securing a significant share of this 
growth opportunity. The Australian market 
continued to have weak demand from the 
mining and oil and gas maintenance sectors 
throughout the year, but a number of the  
major LNG new build projects are now moving 
forward. Whilst the opportunity to secure 
construction work on a number of these LNG 
projects such as QCLNG, GLNG and APLNG 
has been limited as the main contractors  
chose to self-deliver many of the services  
Cape provide, over the medium and long term  
these facilities represent an opportunity for 
maintenance support contracts.
2013 operating performance
Order intake during the year was marginally 
higher than the previous year at £625 million 
(2012: £619 million), with a significant 
contribution from the project awards on the 
Wheatstone LNG project in Australia which in 
aggregate comprised approximately £190 
million of the total Group order intake.
Adjusted revenue from continuing operations 
was 7% lower than the previous year driven by 
completion of a number of major projects in the 
first half such as Kipper Tuna in Australia and 
the SPT project in Singapore, and weak market 
conditions in Kazakhstan and Asia Pacific, 
partly offset by growth in the Middle East and 
UK offshore markets.
We have made significant progress in installing 
operational rigour and establishing a platform  
for future growth.
Chief Executive’s  
review
28
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
Strategic report: Performance review Adjusted operating profit grew by 48% to  
£41.0 million (2012: £27.7 million) with solid 
performances from the UK, MENA and Asian 
businesses offsetting weak performances from 
our Kazakhstan and Australian businesses. The 
performance in Kazakhstan was driven by a 
reduction in the size of the available market  
due to the completion of the Kashagan Field 
Development project. The Group’s Australian 
business returned to profitability at the end of 
the second half as the non-core divestments  
and Performance Improvement Plan were 
successfully concluded.
Following a change in leadership on the  
Arzew project in Algeria and implementation  
of improved operational processes and 
controls, I am pleased to report that we 
completed our work on this contract during 
2013 in line with the revised plan and within  
the existing provision.
The divestment of non-core operations in our 
Australian business, a process which started  
in 2012, was essentially completed in 2013.  
We also carried out a root-and-branch 
restructuring of our remaining core industrial 
services business to ensure it has an 
appropriate cost base for the future. This 
restructuring reduced overhead cost by over 
50% as we streamlined the branch network 
and optimised the back-office functions. In 
addition to the overhead reduction, the 
management team has focused on improving 
the operating performance of existing 
contracts, thus improving gross margins.  
The restructuring programme is now complete 
and all major milestones have been met, 
leaving the business on a sound footing for  
the future.
The MENA regional margin was negatively 
affected by a loss provision taken against an 
onerous contract in Qatar. This project had 
been bid and secured in early 2012 with 
operations commencing in 2013. Whilst it 
is disappointing to report this issue, it was 
encouraging that the new operating 
environment resulted in the difficulties being 
identified early in the project lifecycle and the 
necessary corrective actions being taken 
swiftly to contain the losses on the project.
The Group achieved strong cash flow through 
tight management of working capital and 
capital expenditure, with operating cash flow  
of £49.7 million (2012: £41.5 million). As a result, 
year-end adjusted net debt improved to  
£60.2 million (2012: £65.2 million) after having 
made an additional early payment into the 
IDC fund of £6.0 million.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
29
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 Strategic delivery
Last year we established our new Group 
strategy which consists of two phases: the 
first to stabilise the business and establish our 
platform for growth; and the second to grow 
and optimise the business. We have made 
substantial progress on the implementation  
of the first phase by focusing on operational 
excellence and our aim is to lead our industry  
in operational efficiency and performance. This 
creates value both for our clients by delivering 
our services safely, on-time, to cost and quality, 
and for our shareholders by delivering more 
reliable earnings.
We set out three key goals for our Operational 
Excellence programme: to attract, retain and 
develop the best people; to simplify and 
standardise our business systems and 
processes; and to ensure that knowledge and 
best practice are shared around the Group.  
We have made good progress on all three of 
these goals. High quality management is a 
scarce resource in our industry and our 
long-term success is dependent upon being 
able to develop our people so that they can 
perform to the best of their ability. We are 
committed to investing in our people and have 
introduced a broad range of management 
development programmes across the Group 
which cover all levels of management from 
supervisors and new graduates through to the 
senior executives. The first cohort has started 
on each of these programmes during the year.
We now have an easy to use, common 
management system that defines and  
captures all of the key operational processes 
for the Cape Group. This system means  
we have consistent operating policies and 
processes throughout the Group. We are  
also implementing a standardised project 
delivery process and an industry leading site 
management system that enables us to both 
manage our work effectively and share key 
performance information with clients.
We have made early progress on enhancing 
our relationships with a number of our key 
clients through initiatives such as “Voice of the 
Customer” where we engage with key decision 
makers of our clients in a structured way to 
ensure we understand their concerns and 
requirements. We have decided to delay the 
development of our global key account 
management system to ensure we fully 
understand the needs of our major clients,  
for whom local delivery and relationships can 
often be more important than global ones.  
Our long-term ambition remains to be the 
primary supplier of critical industrial services  
to our key clients.
Whilst continuing our drive for operational 
excellence remains a key priority for the  
Group, we are now progressing into the  
second phase of our strategy; to deliver  
growth through a combination of broadening 
our service portfolio and targeted geographic 
expansion. Our initial focus has been to ensure 
that we secure the key opportunities in our 
existing markets. Whilst a number of our larger 
opportunities have been subject to delay, we 
have been successful in winning contracts in 
our target areas of Australia, Saudi Arabia and 
Azerbaijan. Looking forward to 2014, we will 
continue to drive growth through a combination 
of capturing opportunities in our existing 
markets such as Australia, CIS and parts of  
the Middle East, expanding our service offering 
through the addition of related specialist 
services and extending our geographical reach 
in a selected way.
Of equal importance to the process 
improvements we are making is the cultural 
change that we are driving across the Group. 
We have defined our core values that describe 
the behaviours that we are striving to instil 
across the Group. Driving cultural change 
through these values will be a key element to 
ensuring we can sustain a high level of 
performance over the long term.
Acquisition
In line with our strategy to broaden our portfolio 
of related critical industrial services, on  
11 March 2014 we announced the acquisition 
of Motherwell Bridge, a leading provider of 
storage tanks, gasholders and heat exchangers 
to the energy and steel markets. Motherwell 
Bridge has tremendous expertise, reputation 
and brand recognition in the oil and gas 
storage tank market, including a market leading 
position in the UK and we expect to accelerate 
Motherwell Bridge’s overseas growth through 
Cape’s international footprint. By combining the 
strengths of Cape and Motherwell Bridge we 
are uniquely qualified to provide a complete 
tank maintenance solution to clients in the oil 
and gas market.
Organisation and people
I am delighted to have appointed Steve 
Connolly as Chief Operating Officer, effective 
from 1 January 2014. Steve was previously 
responsible for the UK, Europe & CIS region 
and will be focused on both the day to day 
management of the business and the 
implementation of our Operational Excellence 
programme throughout the Group.
Chief Executive’s  
review continued
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 30
Strategic report: Performance review Cape has over 18,000 people working across 
21 countries and every employee acts as an 
ambassador for the Company wherever they 
go. We will continue to build on our reputation 
for being a great employer and we are 
committed to both providing development  
for our people and ensuring their wellbeing.  
I would like to thank all of our employees for the 
commitment and dedication they have shown 
to the Company over the past year.
Safety
Cape is a people business and we often work 
in hazardous environments where our 
employees are exposed to potential dangers  
to their health and safety. Ensuring the safety  
of our people is our highest priority and 
everyone within the Group has responsibility  
for not only their own safety, but also that of 
their colleagues. We have put increased  
energy into improving our safety culture and 
performance during 2013 and I am pleased  
to see that improvement demonstrated in a 
significant fall in our accident and injury rates 
compared to 2012. Nonetheless, we continue 
to strive to improve our safety performance 
towards a goal of zero harm which remains  
at the heart of everything we do at Cape.
Outlook
2013 was a year of consolidation for Cape 
where our focus has been on stabilising the 
business. We made good progress on our 
objectives for 2013 and enter 2014 with a  
stable platform for future growth. Improved 
operational performance drove enhanced 
margins and we expect that trend to continue 
in 2014. Order intake was marginally higher 
than the prior year but continued to be 
subdued, in part due to a slowdown in some  
of our key markets such as CIS and Asia and 
in part due to the timing of key long-term 
maintenance contract renewals. As a result,  
we entered 2014 with an order book of  
£648 million, 10% lower than at the equivalent  
point in the previous year (31 December  
2012: £720 million). At current rates, foreign 
exchange effects represent a material 
headwind to the Group.
We expect market conditions in the UK, Europe 
and CIS region to be variable with flat demand 
from the UK and a slight increase in activity 
towards the end of 2014 within the CIS. We 
anticipate that the UK business will feel the 
effect of increasing competition, but, with a 
continued focus on efficiency improvement and 
the on-going development of our joint venture 
activities in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, we are 
targeting to deliver an improvement in operating 
margin for the region compared to 2013.
Market conditions in the MENA region are 
expected to remain mixed through 2014 with 
increased demand in countries such as Saudi 
Arabia offsetting a reduction in demand in UAE 
and lower construction market activity in Qatar. 
We expect competition to continue to exert 
downward pressure on pricing, but that the 
Group will be able to mitigate the effect of this 
through improvements in operating efficiency.
Improved market conditions in the Asia  
Pacific region, largely driven by increased 
demand from the LNG projects in Australia, 
combined with the successful restructuring of 
our Australian business, are expected to deliver 
a significant improvement in the performance  
of this business with both top-line growth and 
improvement in operating margins.
Beyond 2014 we expect to see improvement  
in market conditions across the Group with the 
emergence of the nuclear new build program  
in the UK, a number of major projects in Asia, 
growth in new construction activity in the CIS 
and continued development of the Middle 
Eastern market.
The long-term demand for the Group’s services 
is expected to continue to grow, driven by 
increasing investment in both the oil and gas 
and power industries. Through our strategy of 
delivering growth through a combination of 
focused expansion into new geographies and 
extension of the range of critical industrial 
services we provide for our clients, we believe 
Cape can deliver a long-term growth rate  
above that of our core markets. The Board is 
confident in the continued improvement of 
operating performance and in the future 
prospects of the Group.
Joe Oatley
Chief Executive 
18 March 2014
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
31
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013
