 Access
Scaffolding enables site operators and other 
contractors to obtain access to all parts of  
an industrial plant. This can be for routine 
maintenance, shutdowns, major projects or 
new construction. Cape both supplies and 
erects scaffolding using computer-aided design 
where appropriate. Increasingly Cape is able  
to deploy alternative access services such  
as rope access, system scaffold, tension 
netting and powered access.
Refractory linings
Cape’s services include the provision of the 
lining of boilers, furnaces, kilns and high 
temperature petrochemical reactors with 
materials to withstand temperatures in excess 
of 1000ºC. Cape offers design, supply and 
installation services to clients worldwide.
Environmental services
Cape offers clients the provision of  
specialist onshore and offshore cleaning and 
decontamination services. Cape has developed 
a reputation for pioneering and integrating a 
wide range of safe, environmentally sound, 
industrial cleaning techniques involving 
high pressure water jetting, high airflow  
vacuum services and chemical decontamination 
processes. These services are complemented 
by extensive integrated waste management 
services and on-site waste handling capabilities. 
In addition, Cape offers specialist on-line 
desanding systems for upstream oil separators 
allowing operators to minimise downtime.
Insulation
Cape delivers services including the provision 
and application of thermal and acoustic insulation 
for industrial applications. Thermal insulation is 
provided for personnel protection and for the 
conservation of heat and efficient cryogenic 
insulation for temperatures down to -160ºC.  
Cape can provide heat loss analysis and evaluate 
savings from thermal insulation. Cape also uses 
infrared equipment to enable it to undertake 
surveys of thermal insulation efficiency.
Specialist coatings
Cape provides of a complete range of specialist 
coatings for a variety of structures, including 
petrochemical plants, refineries and offshore 
installations. Cape provides surface protection 
and the application of coatings to prevent 
corrosion of bare surfaces or those to be 
insulated and clad.
Fire protection
Cape is an expert in the application of  
fire protection to a variety of structures in 
environments ranging from the extreme 
weather conditions in the North Sea  
to onshore petrochemical and other 
installations exposed to fire risk.
Associated services
In response to client needs, Cape seeks  
to maximise the range of industrial services 
offered. These include fabrication of both 
insulation and sheet metal and, for offshore 
installations, the provision of integrated  
deck facilities management support service 
including lifting and crane operations.
We provide a wide range of critical industrial  
services from construction to maintenance  
and decommissioning phases. 
Cape at 
a glance
 Our critical  
 industrial services...
Overview
04
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 1. Onshore oil and gas
Cape’s success in the downstream oil and gas 
sector is based on building strong, lasting client 
relationships, with both site personnel and also 
with the national and international oil and gas 
companies who own and operate those sites. 
Cape works at some of the largest and most 
complex refineries in the world, and is able to 
deploy large resources of qualified personnel 
and appropriate equipment at short notice.
2. Offshore oil and gas
Cape provides a wide range of services  
to some of the world’s largest international  
oil and gas companies, as well as to smaller, 
independent operators. The Group’s multi-
disciplinary activities focus on the fabric 
maintenance of production assets. Cape’s 
workforce includes multi-skilled teams who 
perform a wide range of complex tasks safely 
and efficiently, thus keeping on-board 
personnel to a minimum.
3. Power
Cape offers exceptional experience and 
expertise in the power generation sector, as 
well as an ability to deliver a rapid emergency 
response to repairs and plant defects. In the 
UK, Cape is responsible for servicing nearly 
50% of the total power generation capacity.
4. Industrials
Cape provides a wide range of multi-
disciplinary services across industrial plants 
including extensive access and insulation 
support to the construction and maintenance 
of major chemical, petrochemical, polymer  
and steel production plants.
5. Minerals and mining
Cape provides expertise in the minerals and 
mining sector across construction support 
services and key maintenance services to 
clients. Cape’s multi-disciplinary approach 
helps reduce operational costs and eradicate 
waste, while enhancing efficiency, productivity 
and safety.
6. Other including marine
Cape also has an international presence in 
several other sectors, including the marine 
construction market, where Cape provides 
services supporting challenging marine projects 
around the world. Cape’s clients rely on the 
Group’s expertise and emphasis on safety,  
to support large secure industrial assets.
Construction support services
Build
Cape provides access, insulation, refractory 
services, fireproofing and coatings during the 
initial build phase. In recent years, Cape has 
established an unrivalled reputation in the 
provision of critical industrial services in 
supporting clients’ construction projects.
Maintenance services
Maintain
Following the construction phase, Cape is often 
retained by plant operators to maintain the 
asset. Cape provides a wide range of critical 
services to support client maintenance and 
shutdown programmes, on contracts that  
are typically of a three to five year duration.
Extension of life
As an industrial asset gets older, Cape will work 
closely with the client on rejuvenation projects, 
to devise a strategy to extend its useful life.
Decommissioning
Cape’s expertise and broad range of  
services makes Cape the contractor of  
choice to support decommissioning and  
asset abandonment activities.
 Our critical  
 industrial services...
 Focused on the energy and 
 natural resources sectors...
 Throughout the  
 life of the asset
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements
Cape plc 
Annual Report 2013 05
