 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 10
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Strategy 
The commercialisation of Conductive Inkjet Technology’s (“CIT’s”) 
touch sensor business continues to have a very high focus for the 
group.  The year ended 31 March 2014 saw a significant increase 
in revenue over the previous year, albeit market conditions have 
been more challenging than initially anticipated, hindering our 
ability to predict adoption and subsequent revenue growth with 
any	accuracy .	Whilst	progress	in	commercialising	our	touch	sensor	
technology has not been at the expected pace, our commercial 
partner Atmel Corporation (“Atmel”) has, so far, announced 
three design wins with HP , a testament to the potential of this 
technology. Looking forward we believe that the success of our 
touch business is now more dependent on the ability of the 
whole supply chain to be price competitive than on the actual 
technology	itself .	W e	are	working	closely	with	Atmel	in	this	area.	
Our coating line in Cambridge is operating well and at high yields 
and we have significant available capacity to support a future 
ramp up in demand for XSense™.
As discussed last year CIT has now created a separate Printed 
Electronics business focused on commercialising and further 
developing our novel low cost printed electronic circuits. The 
addition of a pilot plant for component assembly was completed 
on schedule and a strategy has been developed to enable a 
significant push of this technology area throughout the new 
financial year. Our major focus will be the integration of circuitry 
into medical devices, however there are several other programs 
in addition to this that are providing an interesting pipeline of 
potential products.
There were significant business wins for our largest operating 
divisions, Technical Plastics and LED Technologies, and we exited 
the	year	with	a	record	value	of	new	enquiries.	W e	are	confident	
that we are entering a strong and sustainable phase of growth in 
these businesses.
Our expanded Technical Plastics operation, in Latrobe, USA, 
is now operational and this has been the catalyst for winning 
several new medical programs from new and existing customers. 
In addition we are finalising a lease for a further factory in the 
Czech	Republic,	adjacent	to	our	existing	facility ,	in	order	to	
support new business wins from a range of global customers in 
both the medical and other technical plastic markets. As well as 
our USA and Czech expansions, we expect to initiate additional 
manufacturing capacity in our facilities in Mitcham, Shanghai and 
Bangalore during this current year as we see customer demand 
increase	for	those	locations.	W e	announced	the	closure	of	our	loss	
making Harthill, UK operation in early May 2014 and we expect 
to complete our exit from this facility by the end of the year, with 
several of the existing programs planned to move to our other 
manufacturing locations.
W e	have	now	created	an	aggressive	business	plan	for	Carclo	
Diagnostic Solutions (“CDS”) focused on the development of a 
further two programs in addition to the pi-GST kidney marker 
device test which we are developing in co-operation with 
EKF Diagnostics plc (“EKF”) and our whole blood coagulation 
device. The further programs are for a cardiac marker device 
(“T roponin-l”)	and	an	infectious	disease	device	(“CRP ”)	and	these	
are both substantial potential markets. In order to support this 
new business plan we are increasing our investment through the 
creation of a Cambridge based life sciences group located in our 
CIT facility to work alongside the existing Daresbury based team. 
Our LED Technologies businesses are enjoying growth both in 
W ipac’s	supercar	lighting	sector	as	well	as	the	smaller	LED	Optics	
area.	W ithin	the	supercar	segment	we	have	secured	multiple	
new programs and we are in the final stages of negotiations for 
There were significant 
business wins for 
our largest operating 
divisions REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 11
several others. The program awards will result in significant design 
and tooling activity over the next three years leading to over five 
years	of	subsequent	manufacture.	W e	are	increasing	our	research	
investment into next generation lighting technologies as we enter 
long-term development partnerships with several of our customers 
in order to drive further growth in this business.
W e	divested	our	small	bandsaw	business	at	year	end	leaving	
our Precision Engineering business solely consisting of our UK 
and	F rench	aerospace	component	manufacturers.	Whilst	a	large	
proportion of our business is related to current aircraft build 
programs, we also supply the aerospace spares market. 
Business in detail
Conductive Inkjet Technology (Touch)
CIT commissioned its coating manufacturing facility on time 
early in the financial year and all coated film manufacturing was 
successfully migrated from the original pilot line to the new 
high-speed line ahead of schedule. Annual sales of coated film 
amounted to £3.3 million during the year, being a mix of sales for 
our partner’s production qualification and sales for end customer 
products. Two program wins were announced during the financial 
year	(HP	Omni	10™	and	the	HP	EliteBook	Revolve	810	G2™)	and	
one was subsequently announced soon after (HP ElitePad 1000 
G2™). All three program wins were for HP products with screen 
sizes in the range of 10.1” to 11.6”.
During the financial year there were significant changes within the 
touch industry as a result of new competitors entering the market 
and latterly as a result of ITO vendors both lowering ITO prices 
and also improving electrical performance of these materials. It 
has been widely reported that there are over 20 companies now 
claiming to have metal mesh technologies. In practice competition 
has come mainly from a Japanese and a Chinese metal mesh 
manufacturer. In order to gain market share our competitors have 
priced aggressively against ITO based touch sensors, in particular 
the single layer One Glass Solution (“OGS”) and the more mature 
Glass Film Film (“GFF”) versions.
A combination of lower pricing and an aggressive purchasing 
stance from the OEMs, who are looking to include touch 
functionality as a standard content into the portable computer 
segment, has reduced the effective price of touch sensors by 
around half during the last twelve months. Premiums that were 
available for larger sensors, (i.e. those over 10”), due to the 
historical difficulty in manufacturing at these sizes with ITO, are no 
longer available. The touch sensor market remains an enormous 
market and manufacturers including HP , ASUS, Lenovo, Dell and 
a number of Chinese white box manufacturers are all believed to 
be using metal mesh solutions, from various suppliers, in several 
of their products and the adoption of metal mesh remains a key 
strategic objective of the major OEMs.
CIT has continued to evolve its metal mesh technology with a 
focus on manufacturing efficiency increases, line width reductions 
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
and substrate agnosticism. The key developments during the 
year in these areas are either in evaluation trials with our partner 
or in the final stages of scaled up testing within our Cambridge 
facility .	W e	are	well	resourced	to	scale	coated	film	output	from	
our Cambridge operation to support growth in sales of touch 
sensor materials. There are now limited needs for additional 
capital expenditure in our operation. During the year our 
manufacturing effort has been focused on continuing to drive our 
technology	to	improve	both	output	yields	and	cost	efficiency .	W e	
are working closely with our partner in order to support the cost 
competitiveness of our product and assist them to increase market 
take-up. 
Carclo Technical Plastics
Sales increased from £55.3 million to £58.1 million and 
underlying operating profit increased from £4.0 million to
£4.6 million. The sales increase came predominantly from growth 
in key medical accounts. Operating margins improved from 7.1% 
to 7.9% consistent with our target of achieving 10% margins in 
the medium term.
Our	operations	are	located	in	the	USA ,	UK,	Czech	Republic,	
China and India. Our focus on new business development has 
been very high and we have won significant new work for our 
USA and Czech facilities which both performed strongly in the 
2013/14 financial year. For the USA this new work is centred 
on our newly expanded Latrobe factory. The increase in Czech 
activity has resulted in a need for further manufacturing capacity, 
and therefore we are in the final stages of concluding a lease 
for an additional 2,800 SQM of manufacturing space in Brno 
immediately adjacent to our existing building and expect this 
facility to be active by the autumn of this year. This additional 
space will enable a significant growth in our Czech plant’s 
revenues over the coming years. 
Our Indian facility has also performed well and continues to 
service	a	major	global	A TM	customer .	W e	are	now	actively	
pursuing other work from global organisations operating within 
India and believe that this market will be strong for us in future 
years. 
As a result of our efforts, we expect to see significant 
improvements	in	plant	utilisation	over	the	next	two	years.	W e	
believe that the new programs we have secured will contribute to 
performance in the new financial year with the full effect being 
seen in 2015/16 as new programs tend to only hit efficiency 
targets after several months of manufacturing.
Our Chinese operation had a more difficult year with reduced 
schedules from its major customer.  As part of our business 
development efforts we have now focused our Chinese plant on 
targeting programs for international companies serving the local 
domestic	market.	W e	are	currently	planning	for	the	introduction	
of class 8 cleanrooms in our Chinese factory and we believe that 
this improved facility, together with our leading global quality 
procedures, will be a major growth driver for this operation.  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 12
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Growth in the UK medical device market has been strong and we 
have secured several new programs which will deliver growth into 
our Mitcham facility. 
In order to improve our utilisation and cost effectiveness we 
recently announced the closure of our smaller non-medical 
operation in Harthill, UK. This business had been loss making for 
several years despite our best efforts and those of our dedicated 
workforce. These losses were partly attributable to the small size 
of this plant versus the overhead structure required to manage 
such a facility. This closure will enable our exit from lower margin 
work and will also allow a reallocation of the higher margin and 
more sustainable programs to our other plants.
W e	are	now	very	well	placed	to	enjoy	an	extended	period	of	high	
growth and margin enhancement across all of our remaining 
facilities over the coming years.
LED Technologies
Sales in LED Technologies increased from £23.0 to £28.2 million, 
operating profit was up from £2.2 to £2.6 million. 80.8% of our 
sales	(2013	–	81.1%)	came	from	our	W ipac	supercar	lighting	
business with the balance from LED optics.
W ipac	has	now	secured	new	lighting	programs	for	a	number	of	
leading global supercar brands. During the financial year we were 
awarded design and manufacture contracts for six new vehicles. 
W e	are	also	in	the	final	stages	of	negotiation	for	lighting	contracts	
for several other vehicles. To put this into perspective, we would 
normally have anticipated winning two or three lighting contracts 
per year. These new programs are now in the design phase and 
will	flow	through	into	manufacturing	in	around	two	to	three	
years. These new contracts represent a significant step forward 
for	our	W ipac	business,	as	whilst	the	vehicle	production	numbers	
are modest across this segment (normally lower than 10,000 
vehicles per annum per model), the number of models that we 
will be manufacturing represents a step change on any previous 
levels.	W e	are	therefore	investing	approximately	£4.0	million	over	
the next two years into our facilities to ensure that we have the 
manufacturing and efficiency capabilities to meet our customers’ 
highly demanding expectations. 
W e	aim	to	have	a	truly	world	class	manufacturing	operation	as	
we believe that we can continue to grow strongly within this 
segment.	W e	now	service	most	of	the	leading	iconic	automotive	
brands and have focused heavily during the year on building more 
strategic relationships with our key customers to ensure our own 
lighting research and development activities and theirs are well 
aligned.	Revenue	on	new	programs	is	recognised	throughout	the	
design and manufacturing start-up phase before moving to more 
traditional piece part pricing and as such we have good visibility 
over the coming years of how this business is likely to grow.
The strategy of our Carclo Optics operation has been realigned 
to provide a greater focus on developing and supplying bespoke 
‘cluster’ optics for major OEMs rather than smaller individual 
optics. This strategy has been successful and a number of OEM 
programs have been brought to market using Carclo Optics 
during the year. The business increased its turnover by 34.3% 
in	2013/14.	W e	have	completed	the	lease	on	a	larger	facility	in	
Aylesbury to relocate from our existing facility in Slough upon 
the expiry of the lease for that building. This move will combine 
the Optics design and distribution business with that of our 
W ipac	aftermarket	distribution	business	to	free	up	space	in	
W ipac’s	Buckingham	UK	facility .	In	order	to	continue	to	drive	
momentum into the growth of our optics business, we will move 
a large proportion of our manufacturing of the Optics from our 
Technical Plastics business to within our LED Technologies division 
to simplify customer interaction and increase management focus. 
W e	are	also	investing	in	new	ranges	of	innovative	optics	enabling	
both a class leading performance as well as the ability to create 
custom light clusters which utilise these optics in a low cost 
modular format.
W e	expect	our	LED	T echnologies	division	to	maintain	double	digit	
revenue growth for the coming years and this will drive year on 
year growth in margins.
Precision Engineering
Sales increased from £7.5 to £7.8 million and operating profits 
remained at £1.5 million. The year was aided by a one-time 
contract for remedial machining of a Tier 1 supplier’s parts for 
a major OEM. Adjusted for this one-off revenue the underlying 
financial	performance	was	lower	year	on	year	and	reflected	
a reduction in volumes at our French operations due to a 
combination of lower build rates for a key helicopter customer 
and lower cable assembly spares for older aircraft. 
This business will remain profitable and we will continue to 
focus the business towards OEM supply to replace the inevitable 
reduction in spares for older aircraft as they are retired.
W e	disposed	of	the	business,	assets	and	stocks	of	our	Birkett	
Cutmaster bandsaw business at the end of the year for £0.3 
million in cash; this disposal will have minimal impact on the 
division’s future profitability.
Carclo Diagnostic Solutions 
Our CDS business has developed fully disposable, novel Point-
of-Care diagnostics platforms which do not rely on a secondary 
reader for analysis and quantitative results. CDS platforms 
integrate	low	cost	electronics	from	CIT	with	microfluidic	
mouldings from our Technical Plastics business.
Earlier in the year CDS partnered with EKF Diagnostics plc (“EKF”) 
to develop its Micropoc-pro platform to be used with EKF’s 
acute kidney injury marker (“pi-GST”). Initial patient sample trials 
are now underway; the first indicative results for the platform 
are encouraging. Further sample trials with larger numbers of 
devices are planned over the coming months. Aside from the 
potential commercial rollout of a disposable point of care kidney 
injury marker device, this joint program has enabled us to rapidly  REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 13
STRATEGIC REPORT - CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
develop our Micropoc-pro platform and to better understand its 
likely specificity and sensitivity. 
Having had CDS as an embryonic technology for several years, it 
was appropriate to conduct a full strategic review of this business 
and, working with a leading global medical device consultancy 
firm, we considered whether our technology was relevant to 
the industry, whether it was sufficiently unique and whether our 
market focus was appropriate. The outcome of the review was 
very positive and provided a strong recommendation on the most 
suitable market application areas for the current technology base. 
On the basis of this review, along with information we have 
received from potential partners, we are now in the process 
of increasing our investment in CDS in order to realise the 
high	potential	from	our	technology .	W e	have	commenced	the	
recruitment of a life sciences technical group based within our 
CIT Cambridge facility. This new team will work alongside our 
existing Daresbury team and focus on an aggressive development 
of our device in a total of four application areas. The first two 
applications are consistent with our previous effort, being the 
kidney injury marker (“pi-GST”) and a whole blood coagulation 
device. In addition we will develop two other devices, the first 
for a Cardiac Marker (“Troponin-l”) used to diagnose acute 
myocardial infarction (“AMI”) as well as heart muscle cell death 
and	a	second	for	an	infectious	disease	marker	(“CRP ”)	used	to	
diagnose a number of conditions including bacterial infections, 
cardiac conditions and certain cancers. In all cases we plan to 
use pre-existing third party reagents during the initial stages 
of	development.	W e	have	developed	a	detailed	work	plan	
summarised in Table 1 below.
 
Table 1. CDS Development Timelines
The markets for the four products identified have a combined value of over £2.5 billion and are growing rapidly. Our business model is 
focused on the initial development of an optimised demonstration device up until Phase 3, in collaboration with partners, and thereafter 
licensing deals would be expected to provide either one-off or recurring revenues.
This business is still in its early stages and there remains a level of technical risk associated with our platforms and their suitability for the 
chosen application areas. Progress has been sufficiently positive such that we see accelerating our investment as necessary if we are to realise 
the potential of this development.
CIT Printed Electronics
Having already created a high volume and low cost method of creating copper on film circuitry we are now focused on finding appropriate 
applications for this technology. This printed electronics technology development was the precursor to our touch screen developments and 
the	focus	on	touch	screens	left	the	simpler	lower	cost	“printed”	version	of	our	technology	sitting	in	the	background.	W e	have	now	created	
a	standalone	business	within	CIT	tasked	with	commercialising	this	technology .	W e	completed	the	installation	of	pilot	scale	production	
equipment during the year to add component assembly on to our materials so that we can demonstrate the unique capabilities of this 
technology to customers and also supply small scale production of functioning product. Our own focus will be on integrating electronics into 
medical	devices	and	as	such	we	are	working	on	several	technology	demonstrators.	W e	are	also	working	on	a	number	of	other	projects	in	
printed electronics as well as projects that utilise our fine line technology. Our strategy will be to focus on medium term revenue opportunities 
which may be supplied from our own facilities or built by external partners.  
Chris Malley
10 June 2014
Phase 1
Phase 2
Phase 3
Commercial 
Partnership
Phase 4
Phase 5
Prepare Product Definition Document
Develop prototype assay
Optimisation of assay and device, R&D scale
Performance evaluation
Scale-up device and reagent manufacturing process
Performance assessment
Validation
Verification
Regulatory submissions
Launch activities
Coag
CAT
pi-GST
Pro
CRP
CAT
Troponin-I
Pro
Q4’ 2014 Q1’ 2015
Q3’ 2014 Q1’ 2014 Q3’ 2015 Q1’ 2016
Q2’ 2015 Q1’ 2015 Q1’ 2016 Q3’ 2016
Q3’ 2015 Q2’ 2015 Q2’ 2016 Q4’ 2016
12-months 12-months 12-months 12-months
