 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 6
Overview
Carclo produced a solid financial performance and continued to 
make encouraging strategic progress during the year ended 31 
March 2014, notwithstanding the difficulties in building volumes 
in Conductive Inkjet Technology’s (“CIT’s”) touch sensor business. 
Group revenues and profits benefitted from a strong second half 
as expected and all divisions reported increased sales relative to 
the prior year. These results take account of the changes made 
following the revisions to IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits” and 
these changes have also been applied to the comparatives. The 
highlights for the year were –
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Financial highlights
 
•	 Revenue	increased	by	12.4%	to	£97.3	million	reflecting	good
 sales growth from traditional divisions alongside increasing
 sales from CIT
•	 Divisional	underlying	operating	profit	was	£8.6	million
 (2013 - £7.7 million) and underlying operating profit from
 continuing operations £6.6 million (2013 - £5.6 million)
•	 Exceptional	charge	of	£0.5	million	(2013	-	£0.7	million)	was
 due mainly to £0.4 million of litigation costs
 (2013 - £0.4 million) in respect of our claim against Uni-Pixel
 Inc. which has now been settled
•	 Profit	before	tax	increased	by	48.3%	to	£4.8	million
 (2013 - £3.2 million)  
•	 Basic	earnings	per	share	increased	from	4.3	pence	to
 5.5 pence
•	 Group	capital	expenditure	was	£7.2	million
 (2013 - £8.7 million) continuing our significant investment in
 our growth businesses
•	 Due	to	the	high	capital	expenditure	incurred,	the	cash	cost	of
 developing our technology businesses and the utilisation of
 the Atmel Corporation (“Atmel”) prepayment, net debt
 increased from £9.2 million to £17.7 million in the year 
•	 Committed	debt	facilities	increased	to	£26.0	million
•	 T otal	dividend	increased	by	3.9%	to	2.65	pence	per	share
Carclo produced a solid 
financial performance 
and continued to make 
encouraging strategic 
progress during the 
year ended 31 March 
2014 REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 7
Strategic and Operational highlights
•	 Conductive	Inkjet	T echnology	(“CIT”)	commenced	volume
 sales of coated film to our partner Atmel in the year
 and, despite more challenging commercial conditions, it
 is well positioned to build a significant business to supply
 its innovative products within this large and growing market.
	 W e	have	now	created	a	standalone	business	within	CIT	tasked
 with commercialising our Printed Electronics technology and
 are working on a number of new projects
•	 Carclo	Diagnostic	Solutions	(“CDS”)	has	continued	to	develop
 its disposable Point-of-Care platforms and has now supplied
 functioning devices to EKF Diagnostics plc for testing with its
 pi-GST kidney marker. A full independent review of the market
 opportunities has been undertaken and this identified several
 additional product application areas, the most suitable of
 which have been integrated into the development plan
•	 In	T echnical	Plastics,	turnover ,	operating	profits	and	margins
 increased compared to the prior year. Business development
 has been extremely successful in the year and this will
	 support	strong	growth	in	future	revenue.	W e	have	reviewed
 our manufacturing structure which will result in the expansion
 of our Czech facility and the closure of one of our UK plants
•	 LED	T echnologies	had	an	excellent	year	and	overall	underlying
 operating profit moved ahead by £0.4 million to 
	 £2.6	million.	Our	W ipac	supercar	lighting	business	has
 benefitted from significant design wins from new and existing
 customers which will drive several years of double digit
 growth. The LED Optics business has gained new OEM
 program wins and is now also in a good growth phase
•	 Precision	Engineering	has	continued	to	generate	good	profits.
 In March 2014, the group disposed of the Birkett Cutmaster 
 bandsaw business for £0.3 million. This will have minimal
 effect on the division’s future profitability
Dividend
The proposed final dividend of 1.80 pence per share brings the 
total dividend for the year to 2.65 pence per share
(2013 – 2.55 pence). This represents an increase of 3.9% and 
further emphasises the solid financial performance for the year 
and the board’s confidence in the group’s prospects.
Employees
I would like to thank all those employed by Carclo in the year 
under review for their continuing substantial contribution.   
Outlook
Whilst	the	touch	screen	market	has	become	significantly	more	
competitive we are well positioned for our touch business to 
grow. Our partnership with Atmel Corporation remains strong and 
we	are	both	committed	to	growing	the	XSense™	business.	W e	are	
continuing to enhance our product offering and we believe our 
technical solution remains very attractive to potential customers. 
W e	are	now	investing	further	in	our	Printed	Electronics	business	
where we believe we have developed a strong product offering.
Following the commercial review of CDS we have prepared an 
aggressive development plan to drive the technology forward 
for use in several high value application areas where the overall 
market size is an estimated £2.5 billion.
Technical Plastics continues to win new business and, following a 
reorganisation of our manufacturing resources, we are now well 
positioned to drive efficiencies and increase our net operating 
margins towards our medium term target of 10%. 
Our	LED	T echnologies	division,	including	W ipac	our	niche	
supercar lighting business, has now succeeded in launching its 
LED dip beam light into the supercar segment and this continues 
to	create	additional	opportunities.	W e	are	currently	improving	
and expanding our manufacturing capabilities to cope with 
the	large	influx	of	new	work.	A	marketing	emphasis	on	optics	
clusters within LED Optics has been successful and further design 
enhancements for our optics range have recently been concluded 
to support future growth.
Precision Engineering, which now consists of our aerospace 
businesses, remains both profitable and cash generative.
In summary, the group is poised for further growth both in its 
traditional areas and in its new technology ventures. It has the 
resources, bank facilities and business prospects to drive this 
growth over the coming years and generate shareholder value. 
Michael Derbyshire
10 June 2014
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
page 8
