 Care UK annual report 2003 2
This has been a year of significant progress for
Care UK both operationally and strategically,
with the success in winning three Independent
Sector Treatment Centres and the move into
children’s care following the acquisition in
September 2003 of Corvedale Holdings.
Turnover increased by 11% at £108.1m
(2002: £97.8m). Before the final revenue
investment costs of £3.0m (2002: £3.0m),
operating profit was £13.3m (2002: £11.4m),
up 17%, and pre-tax profit before goodwill
amortisation increased by 18% to £9.9m
(2002: £8.3m). On the same basis, earnings
per share were 13.79p (2002: 11.27p), an
increase of 22%.
During the year the group has enhanced its
operational competence and the quality of
service delivery, securing important new
contracts in both Residential and Community
Care, and emphasising Care UK’s position as a
partner of choice for both Primary Care Trusts
and Local Authorities. In addition, we have
completed the one-off change programme
associated with the three long-term contracts
at Surrey, Hillingdon and Richmond ahead of
schedule and at a cost lower than originally
forecast.
Contracts signed during the year represent
annual revenue of £10m and our total
forward contracted turnover now amounts 
to around £571m at current prices. Through
organic growth and acquisition the group’s
homecare business, measured by the number
of hours of care delivered, has grown this 
year by over 28%.
In January of this year we established a joint
venture company with Afrox Healthcare Ltd, 
a major South African acute care provider.
Consistent with our strategy to develop
solutions for public sector outsourcing, this
was planned in response to the Department
of Health initiative to create new Independent
Sector Treatment Centres (“ISTCs”), previously
known as Diagnostic and Treatment Centres.
In September, the joint venture company was
appointed preferred bidder to build and run
three ISTCs in Plymouth, Trent/South Yorkshire,
and Maidstone.
chairman’s statement
opportunities forgrowth Care UK annual report 2003 3
These projects will help to extend Care UK’s partnerships with
innovative Primary Care Trusts as traditional acute care services
are increasingly being delivered as primary care solutions,
taking people out of hospital to receive care more
appropriately in the community.
In September the group acquired 75% of Corvedale Holdings,
a Shropshire based provider of residential care, education
and therapeutic activities for young people, which has
preferred supplier agreements with many UK Local Authorities.
Children’s care is a high priority area for Social Services and
this acquisition provides Care UK with significant opportunities
to develop in this important sector further.
Strategy
It is important for Care UK to understand and participate in the
evolution of the health and social care market, Government
strategy and local needs. We believe that the public sector will
continue to dominate the funding of health and social care,
but that there are demonstrable benefits of working with
private sector partners to deliver improvements in patient
choice, cost efficiency and innovation.
Our strategy is to provide a broad range of contracted health
and social care solutions to the NHS and Local Authorities.
Each of these services will focus on complex needs where
Care UK can provide significant added value and, therefore,
generate attractive returns, particularly where a number of the
solutions are integrated to provide a care pathway including
acute, rehabilitation and therapy treatments, alongside longer
term continuing care and support.
Board and employees
Richard Clough is to retire as Deputy Chairman, as planned,
at the 2004 Annual General Meeting. Richard was Chief
Executive from March 1994 until November 2001, when he
became Deputy Chairman. He has played a central role in the
success of Care UK, particularly in developing the company’s
relationships with public sector bodies. The Board is grateful to
Richard and wishes him well in his retirement.
As previously announced, Graham Lomer, Business Development
Director, left the group on 31 October 2003. The Board would
like to thank him for his substantial contribution to Care UK.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank once again our
staff, whose compassion and dedication continue to improve
the lives of the people they support and care for. The
development of our services is enabled by the quality of our
operational performance and by the skill and innovation of our
staff at all levels.
Dividend
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 1.90p per share
(2002: 1.70p per share) giving a total dividend for the year
of 2.80p per share (2002: 2.55p per share), an increase of
10%. The final dividend will be paid on 6 February 2004 to
all shareholders on the register on 9 January 2004.
Over the long-term, we expect to follow a progressive dividend
policy whilst maintaining a level of earnings cover appropriate
to the group’s continuing investment in the range of health
and social care opportunities available.
Outlook
Care UK has seen a step change in market position during the
year through the new ISTC contracts, allowing the group to enter
the acute care market at a time when the Government is seeking
to involve the private sector in the delivery of NHS acute care.
Care UK’s future performance is underpinned by its solid base
of existing projects, as well as new contracts coming through,
both in our existing as well as the new businesses outlined
above, and ongoing organic growth in homecare. The group
is confident that its robust business base combined with
exposure to a dynamic market will provide excellent
opportunities for further growth.
John Nash
Chairman
12 December 2003
for our business and ourclients
