 Care UK annual report 2003 4
Residential care showed good growth in both
turnover and operating profit, reflecting price
improvements as well as the implementation
of new contracts. Operating margins rose by
around 0.8%, benefiting from a full year of
trading for both the Surrey contract and 
Tariro House, the opening of new homes in
Middlesbrough and Reading, and a reduction
in divisional overheads resulting from the
reorganisation carried out in 2002. Overall
occupancy across the division averaged
around 98% over the year, similar to 2002.
The division comprised a total of 2,716 beds
at 30 September 2003 (2002: 2,676 beds),
across 74 homes.
This improvement demonstrates the resilience
of our partnership model as well as the
opportunity we have to improve margins by
increasing non-contract bed rates in line with
the rising market. We anticipate further
margin improvement as we implement
changes in the use of a proportion of our
beds to provide more complex care services.
In Specialist Elderly Care, results benefited
from a full year’s contribution from the Surrey
contract and the newly constructed Woodside
Resource Centre, with 60 beds (51 contracted),
which was opened in Middlesbrough in
December 2002. The construction of homes
for the new Islington and Hillingdon contracts
is in line with the planned timetable.
consideration &innovation
chief executive’s report
Review of results
The results of the group are presented and commented on below based on the operational
structure that was introduced in 2002.
Residential Care Services
Year ended 30 September 2003 2002
£000 £000 Change
Turnover 70,259 65,674 +7.0%
Operating profit * 11,495 10,264 +12.0%
Operating margin 16.4% 15.6%
Average capital employed 64,945 58,976
Return on capital employed * 17.7% 17.4%
*before goodwill amortisation and revenue investment costs Care UK annual report 2003 5
in everything we do
As part of the Surrey development programme, the total
redevelopment of the Whitebourne home in Frimley was
completed on time in January 2003. Whitebourne is a
residential home for the elderly mentally ill with a total of 63
beds, of which 39 are included in the Surrey contract.
A major extension was developed at Laurel Dene in Richmond
adding 62 beds and to complete the Richmond project we are
developing two new homes at Whitefarm Lodge and Greville
House comprising 124 beds in total, due to open in August
2004 and August 2005 respectively, facilitating the closure of
homes and disposal of land during 2005 at Craig House and
Gifford House.
Performance in Mental Health Care was assisted by a full
year’s contribution from the Tariro House contract; this
contract, for 10 beds of the total of 16 in the home,
commenced in June 2002. The small disposal programme
initiated during the year resulted in the sale of four
non-strategic mental health homes. Opportunities for utilising
the as yet unopened 20-bed mental health facility at the
Woodside Resource Centre in Middlesbrough are currently
under review. The newly constructed high dependency
Rosebank nursing home in Reading was opened in July 2003,
with a total of 12 beds, all contracted to Berkshire Healthcare
NHS Trust for 10 years. Care UK annual report 2003 6
Performance in the residential element of the group’s Learning
Disabilities Services business improved significantly compared
to 2002. As the preferred model of care for this type of service
is typically supported living, included within the Community
Care Services division, profit growth resulted principally from
more effective management of the various facilities, with
turnover at a similar level to 2002. The closure of one home,
as part of the disposal programme, has improved occupancy
levels and allowed for more efficient staffing. No new facilities
were brought into service during the year.
New contracts
In March 2004 we expect to open a new care home for the
elderly with 66 beds at Franklin House in Hillingdon and the
first of two new care homes for the elderly in Islington, with
60 beds, with the second home due to open around October
2005, with 52 beds.
Contracts are now in the final stages of approval with the
London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham and with Croydon
Primary Care NHS Trust. Whilst formal approval will now occur
later than previously indicated, this only reflects the public
sector procurement process. Under the Hammersmith & Fulham
contract we are to build and run two new elderly care homes
with a total of 158 beds, of which 130 will be contracted, as
well as 32 sheltered housing units. Capital investment for this
project will be in the order of £10.5m and the timetable to
opening will be around 12 months for the first home and a 
further 6 months for the second. This innovative project 
will provide for a care continuum including homecare
deliveringsolutions
chief executive’s report continued Care UK annual report 2003 7
services in the sheltered housing units (known as “extracare”),
day care and rehabilitation services (including hydro-therapy
pools), respite care beds, and high dependency nursing beds.
The purpose is to avoid hospital admissions and to enable an
independent living strategy, allowing people to remain in 
their own homes for as long as possible. Should care needs
become greater over time, the transition into a higher
dependency bed is eased by the resident’s familiarity with 
the centre.
Under the Croydon contract we are to build and run a
community forensic hostel with 12 beds, all contracted for
5 years, with capital investment of around £1.5m. The build
programme will be around 12 months. The hostel will provide
high dependency services for adults with severe and enduring
mental health needs and associated offending behaviour.
The service will facilitate the transition of patients from secure
units and has a long-term aim of enabling a return to
independent living.
Community Care Services
Year ended 30 September 2003 2002
£000 £000 Change
Turnover 37,890 32,120 +18.0%
Operating profit * 3,388 2,626 +29.0%
Operating margin 8.9% 8.2%
Average capital employed 10,025 8,195
Return on capital employed * 33.8% 32.0%
* before goodwill amortisation
The Community Care division also showed strong growth in
the year. These results include a contribution of just over 
8 months from Premiere Homecare, acquired in January 2003,
which yielded £0.9m of turnover and £0.4m of operating
profit. Organic growth was therefore 15.3% in turnover and
14.3% in operating profit. At 30 September 2003 the
Homecare business was delivering around 56,700 hours of
care per week (30 September 2002: 44,100), including
around 10,000 hours per week from Premiere, and the
Learning Disabilities business was providing care to
342 supported living service users (30 September 2002: 
270 service users).
In Homecare we targeted increased organic growth and
strengthened the management structure accordingly. Whilst
the 2002/03 year does not fully reflect the benefits of this
investment, we are pleased to report a run rate of activity at
the end of the year some 6% higher than the prior year
comparison on a like-for-like basis. Notable contract wins or
extensions were gained in Sheffield (extra 650 hours per
week), Lambeth (extra 350 hours per week) and an ‘extracare’
scheme for Birmingham City Council (250 hours per week).
With the addition of Premiere, total hours growth was over
28%. The integration of the Homecare management structure
with that for Supported Living also resulted in divisional
overhead savings.
Within Supported Living significant growth was achieved
mainly through the commencement of new services in
Argyll & Bute (47 service users), Aberdeen (8 service users)
and Uttlesford in Essex (28 service users).
The group’s Specialist Recruitment business performed
broadly in line with the previous year. This performance should
be considered in the context of the NHS’ procurement strategy
to establish a framework of centrally approved recruitment
agency providers. Our niche business focused on consultant
psychiatrists is not currently part of the framework and we are
reviewing opportunities to develop this business as a specialist
provider working alongside or, in due course, within the
National Framework.
for today and tomorrow Care UK annual report 2003 8
Children’s Services
The group entered the children’s services market by
acquiring 75% of Corvedale Holdings in September 2003.
Corvedale is a specialist provider of residential, educational
and therapeutic services to young people, in the 11 to
17 years age range, through a mix of care models. Based
in Shropshire, the business is highly regarded and has
preferred supplier relationships with over 80 Local Authorities.
Typically, admission is to Corvedale’s crisis and assessment
centre, an “outward bound” oriented centre on the Welsh
borders, for up to 13 weeks. Thereafter, the youngsters will
either return home, transfer to a residential care unit, or to
Corvedale’s specialist school in Ludlow. Here, they will continue
to receive therapeutic support as well as teaching specifically
tailored to maximising their level of potential. Through a very
high level of added value service, Corvedale is able to obtain
fee rates substantially higher than those typically available in
the group’s existing residential care business.
The children’s services market is valued at around £3.2bn and
is still highly fragmented. Corvedale is a high quality entry
point for Care UK to develop a substantial business in this
exciting sector. Corvedale’s management team, who are
remaining with the business, have established a robust and
high quality service infrastructure and are now ready to grow
the business significantly, initially optimising capacity in existing
facilities and extending services in the Shropshire heartland, 
to be followed by expansion into other regions. Now that
deliveringsolutions
chief executive’s report continued Care UK annual report 2003 9
Corvedale has a strong and rigorous operational base, we will
target further growth through acquisition, although given the
relatively nascent structure of the market this will be
opportunity dependent.
As Corvedale was acquired virtually at the end of the group’s
financial year, the 2003 results include no trading contribution
from this business.
Independent Sector Treatment Centres (previously DTC’s)
In anticipation of the Government’s strategy to create new
acute surgery capacity, a joint venture company was formed
with Afrox Healthcare Ltd (“Afrox”) in January 2003. Afrox is 
a substantial acute hospital company, based in South Africa,
operating over 7,500 acute care beds and 10,000 chronic care
beds. The interim name for the joint venture company is Care
UK Afrox Healthcare (“CUAH”). The joint venture is supported
by Alliance Medical, Europe’s leading provider of diagnostic
imaging services, supporting over 150 NHS and independent
hospitals in the UK.
The Department of Health bidding process required
‘additionality’ of healthcare professionals to avoid the ISTCs
denuding existing NHS staffing capacity. The partnership with
Afrox provides access to a substantial pool of experienced and
proven clinicians and nurses from South Africa.
In December 2002, the Department of Health initiated a
procurement project to commission a first wave of ISTCs.
CUAH submitted bids for nine projects and was appointed
preferred bidder for three ISTCs with Primary Care Trusts in
Maidstone, Plymouth, and Trent/South Yorkshire.
The aggregate annual turnover of CUAH for the three centres
is anticipated to be around £45m and capital investment is
expected to be approximately £35m. The service to be
provided is diagnostic investigation and routine surgery for
otherwise well patients, with a strong emphasis on
orthopaedic surgery. CUAH has developed innovative care
pathways, with extensive community based rehabilitation, 
to facilitate shorter periods of in patient stay.
The Trent/South Yorkshire project is likely to be preceded by 
a separate interim contract to commence in January 2004. 
The commissioning dates of the three permanent projects are
currently expected to be the latter part of 2004 for Plymouth,
the middle of 2005 for Trent and the latter part of 2005 
for Maidstone.
Strategy for growth
The group’s continuing success will reflect the ability to design
and deliver solutions that meet purchaser and user needs in
terms of quality, innovation and efficiency. In recognition of
this, we have increased focus on operational rigour and
solutions design flair to develop a broad base of related health
and social care services.
The ISTC project in particular represents a highly significant
opportunity for Care UK to become a credible provider of
acute and extended care pathway services at a time when the
Government and Primary Care Trusts are setting out to involve
the private sector more substantively in the provision of such
services. The NHS acute care market is valued at around £35bn
per annum, with a further £12bn expenditure in primary care.
Clearly, significant transition of services to be delivered by the
private sector will represent material opportunity for early
mover companies, such as Care UK.
Growth is therefore targeted to reflect the strategies of Primary
Care Trusts and Local Authorities to treat and support people
in a secondary care or independent living environment,
avoiding non-essential hospital admissions and stays, with
particular emphasis on the management of chronic disease. 
As we develop these models of care we would expect margins
to improve to reflect the greater complexity and value of these
services to commissioners.
Mike Parish
Chief Executive
12 December 2003
for the young and the old
