 4 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007
This has been a year of excellent performance for Care UK with an increase 
in adjusted profit before tax of 28% to £20.1m (2006: £15.7m) and 
significant progress in advancing the company’s position as an important 
partner for public sector services.
Revenue, including share of joint venture revenue, increased by 38% 
to £275.7m (2006: £199.4m) and adjusted basic earnings per share were 
up by over 22% to 26.26p (2006: 21.47p). Total basic earnings per share 
were 20.27p (2006: 18.02p).
Progress in the group’s Social Care services has continued to be strong, 
with an improvement in operating profit of 17%. The nature of the Social 
Care market and Care UK’s focus on operational excellence and service 
development combine to create a solid platform for continued organic 
progress and potential for further acquisitive growth. 
Care UK has continued to pursue its strategy to position itself as key 
provider of Health Care services on behalf of the NHS and the acquisition 
of Mercury Health during the year was an important step. Our immediate 
focus continues to be to conclude agreement on current “Wave 2” 
preferred bidder appointments.
leading
the market  
in developing 
innovative 
care solutions
Chairman’s statement Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007 5
Whilst we are disappointed that the West Midlands Diagnostics contract 
is to be terminated, this is clearly a specific issue relating to changes in 
local capacity requirements. Further details on the impact of this are set 
out in the Financial review. 
Care UK considers that the growing demand for healthcare and the 
transition to a market of NHS partner providers is inexorable and that 
the resulting scale of opportunity could be significant for the group.
employees
Care UK and, moreover, the many people that benefit from our support 
rely absolutely on the dedication and professionalism of our employees. 
Care UK continues to invest in the development of skills and leadership 
to ensure that the group is at the forefront of market developments 
and that service provision is both excellent and consistent. On behalf 
of our customers, shareholders and the board I would like to thank our 
employees for their continuing outstanding commitment and performance.
Dividend
The board is recommending a final dividend of 2.80p per share, giving a 
total dividend for the year of 4.02p (2006: 3.65p per share), an increase of 
10%. The final dividend will be paid on 11 February 2008 to shareholders 
on the register on 11 January 2008. This increase is in line with the previously 
stated policy of growing dividends ahead of inflation whilst maintaining 
a level of earnings cover consistent with the group’s growth objectives. 
Dividend cover in 2007 is 6.5 times, measured against adjusted earnings 
(2006: 5.9 times).
outlook
Care UK has established a firm business foundation with excellent visibility 
of future earnings through long-term contracts, a high level of income 
guarantees and the inherent continuity of essential services. The group’s 
financial strength is further underpinned by strong cash flows and the 
value of its property assets.
We believe that Care UK continues to be well placed within its chosen 
markets and the scale, quantity and range of opportunities for both 
organic and acquisitive growth are compelling. The board is, therefore, 
confident that Care UK will maintain its strong performance during the 
coming years.
John nash
chairman
21 December 2007 6 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s report
social care
The group’s Social Care activities comprise the Residential Care, 
Community Care and Specialist Care divisions, which are commented 
on individually below.
residential care 
market overview and strategy 
The strategy for Residential Care continues to focus on a specialist range 
of services, principally for older people, with particular emphasis on 
rehabilitation and complex needs. The division has a strong asset base of 
care homes that have either been constructed by the group or transferred 
to us by Local Authorities. A key characteristic of this division is that 74% 
of the 3,087 beds are contracted for the long term by public sector 
commissioners. This business model provides a high degree of income 
visibility and, therefore, resilience for the group. 
Our strategic perspective, which is supported by the Government and Local 
Authorities, is that people with moderate needs are best cared for in their 
own home with residential intermediate care, rehabilitation and respite 
care support provided as necessary. The focus of the Residential Care 
C  We provide 24-hour care for over 3,000 older 
people in 56 nursing and residential homes, 
and daycare centres
C  We provide over six million hours of care per year 
in people’s own homes
C  We care for over 1,000 service users within 
our Specialist Care division
C  We deliver over 117,000 patient episodes per 
year within Health Care
delivering Activity Based Care (ABC) is a genuinely 
original style of residential care within 
which the achievements of our residents 
are our own measure of success. ABC 
moves away from care as ‘doing for’ and 
managing dependency, towards a more 
creative, adaptable and beneficial ‘doing 
with’ approach. In our homes staff use 
their time creatively, working together 
with the residents on tasks such as 
setting tables, maintaining a vegetable 
garden or helping in the office. 
As we extend this programme we do so 
with increasing evidence of the positive 
effects that this can have on mental 
health conditions such as depression, 
confusion, anxiety and eating disorders. 
The effects of ABC on older people with 
dementia is often substantive. We have 
seen individuals who were limited at 
home by frailty or illness recover their 
lost confidence and freedom and start to 
take control of their own lives once again.
Activity-based care ABC at work in Forrester Court Nursing Home, London
Mrs. Morrison moved into Forrester Court 
thinking that her life of independence had come 
to an end. After much encouragement she told 
us that, long ago, she enjoyed knitting, but gave 
up frustrated by her deteriorating concentration 
and dexterity. Through trial and error (and a 
great deal of patience) we learnt how to knit 
with her, starting each stitch and tying each knot 
until Mrs. Morrison felt able to take the lead. 
Over the coming weeks and months Mrs. Morrison 
learnt how to knit again without help and taught 
several carers along the way. With her confidence 
returning she began to talk more fluently, reading 
newspapers and even playing table tennis. 
Recently, with the help of our carers, she began 
to prepare her own coffee, wash her pots and 
maintain her room. Mrs. Morrison now plays a 
lead role in the residents group where, through 
her own achievements, she is setting the example 
for everyone to follow. Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007 7
division is to develop such support services, working in conjunction with 
our Community Care division, as well as to provide residential care for 
higher acuity needs, including frail nursing, dementia care and a range 
of neurological rehabilitation services.
results of residential care
  2007 2006 
Year ended 30 September  £m £m
Revenue  93.8 81.3
Operating profit  16.4 15.8
Adjusted operating profit *  16.4 14.5
Operating margin *  17.5% 17.8%
* Before Richmond property disposal profit of £nil (2006: £1.3m).
Residential Care has shown further good increases in both revenue (15%) 
and operating profit (13%), entirely from organic growth. As expected, 
the change in operating margin reflects the increase in the number of beds 
operated under management contracts with underlying margin increasing 
by around 0.3% year on year. Financial occupancy for the year was just 
over 97%, slightly higher than in the first half of the year, reflecting the 
build up of occupancy in newly commissioned homes. Average fee rates 
increased over the year from £579 per week to £602 per week, an increase 
of 4%.
Birchwoods, a new residential care facility in Newbury, West Berkshire, 
commenced services in April 2007. This is a 60-bed facility, which is entirely 
contracted by West Berkshire Council and is being operated by Care UK 
under a minimum 10-year management contract. Lennox House, the new 
87-bed care home in the London Borough of Islington, opened on time 
in June 2007. A total of 40 beds are contracted for a 25-year period in 
this home.
Care UK operates a wide number of 
innovative Social Care service solutions, 
supporting older people, those with 
specialist needs, including children, and 
service users with learning disabilities 
or mental health problems 8 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007
partnering
Chief Executive’s report continued
In February 2007 we announced the award of a contract with Slough 
Borough Council for the provision of a 120-bed residential care facility, 
with 90 beds to be contracted for a minimum period of 15 years. This 
contract was signed in September 2007 and construction activity commenced 
in the same month. Services at this care home are expected to commence 
by summer 2009.
In February 2007 we also announced the award of a further management 
contract with the Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea. This is a 21-year 
contract for 30 beds, out of a total of 60 beds at the care home, and services 
are now expected to commence early in 2008.
In Poole, our property development partner is awaiting the outcome 
of a hearing regarding the planning application submitted in relation to 
the preferred site for the proposed new care home for older people with 
dementia. Possible alternative sites continue to be sought. Meanwhile 
Care UK continues to manage the former council operated care home 
for Poole Borough Council and to provide daycare and homecare services, 
under a contract that commenced in April 2006. 
Care UK has initiated a new stream of growth through greenfield 
development homes, which will be targeted at both the private self-pay 
market as well as publicly funded residents. Construction commenced 
on the first such development, a brand new 120-bed care home in 
Chelmsford, in October 2007. This new facility will be financed on a 
leasehold basis in a partnership arrangement with a developer and is due 
to commence services in summer 2009. A number of other targeted 
regions have been identified for similar developments, which are also 
expected to be developed on a leasehold basis.
In Richmond, further to the disposal of the first surplus site in 2006, we 
are expecting to commence marketing of the second surplus site in late 
2007. The sale of this site is anticipated to generate a further one-off 
cash receipt.
We continue to see many opportunities for growth within Residential Care 
through a mix of new contracts, extensions of existing homes, targeted 
acquisitions and greenfield developments. 
Care UK works in 
partnership with 
over 150 Primary 
Care Trusts and  
Local Authorities Outcome-based care services
Outcome-based care is an innovative 
approach to social care commissioning 
which meets the objectives of national 
policy and achieves very positive results 
for the people who use our services.
Our approach to outcome-based care aims 
to provide flexibility and responsiveness 
by putting the service user at the centre 
of their care. We achieve this by discussing 
with them what they would like to 
achieve from the care, and when, and 
we make sure that our carers and the 
flexible programmes we put in place 
match the needs and requirements 
of our service users.
We then monitor and review each individual 
and their outcome-based care programme 
to ensure it is meeting objectives.
The benefits are:
C  Improved communication between 
service users and their carers
C  Better, more flexible and more 
relevant use of allocated time
C  The ability to bank time towards 
particular interests and activities
C Happier, more confident service users 
C  The development of relationships 
between service users and their 
carers, contributing to continuity 
sustainability and independence
C  Carers who feel more professionally 
and personally fulfilled, who enjoy 
increased variety in their work
C  A resulting contribution to staff 
retention and professional development
C Satisfied commissioners Outcome-based care services, Fleetwood, Lancashire
Margaret Skitteral, 81, has lived in Fleetwood 
nearly all her life. She has severe learning disabilities 
and no living relatives, which has left her isolated 
and with little self-confidence. She was referred 
to Care UK by Social Services in July 2006, after 
suffering a fracture to her left arm. Care UK 
carers help her with household chores as well 
as facilitating a more independent lifestyle. 
Margaret’s care package was initially planned to 
be for ten days only. However, after a review it 
was decided to provide her with a longer term 
outcome-based care package designed to build 
her confidence, get her out of the house and 
ultimately empower her to lead as fulfilling a life 
as possible. As a result Margaret enjoys a greater 
involvement in the local community, attending 
coffee mornings and going to the bank and 
Post Office. Other positive outcomes have included 
a trip to see the Blackpool illuminations, visiting 
memorable places from her life before she became 
housebound and making use of what she calls 
“the book” – which contains labels of things that 
she buys regularly so she can go to the shops on 
her own and identify the right products.
As a result of outcome-based care Margaret is 
now in control of her own life, working with her 
carers, planning her daily activities and is more 
confident as a result. Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007 9
community care 
market overview and strategy
Community Care is focused on supporting people in their own homes, 
caring for older people and others with specialist needs. The division is 
now providing an annualised level of over six million hours of care per 
year. The vast majority of activity provides personal and domiciliary care 
commissioned by Local Authorities, with close to 70% purchased through 
‘block’ contracts. 
The strategy for Community Care continues to be to achieve a mix of 
organic growth, including growth from new contract wins, and acquisitions 
of businesses targeted in locations with sufficient population density and 
where the group does not currently have a presence.
The group is increasingly able to differentiate the Homecare business 
as a high quality service provider within a market that, whilst still highly 
fragmented, is subject to both increasing regulatory control and more 
sophisticated Local Authority procurement processes. In particular, Care UK 
is leading the development of services from a procurement model based 
solely on specified inputs, usually labour hours, to a value added outcomes 
approach, with service providers such as ourselves being empowered to 
focus on the individual needs of service users.
In addition, the alignment of Primary Care Trusts with Local Authorities is 
generating an emphasis for commissioners to consider greater utilisation 
of community-based services to deliver a more integrated health and social 
care solution. 
Care UK is, by working in partnership 
with the NHS, a leading provider of 
innovative prison health care services
