 2 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007
The health and social care environment
Care UK’s reputation for innovation is partly founded on the development of new models of 
care, which increasingly span the interface between health and social care. This understanding 
of the health and social care spectrum places Care UK in a unique position in today’s markets.
Health care
C  Care UK has been very successful in winning centrally procured contracts 
in the first stages of the government’s inclusion of the independent sector in 
the provision of care to NHS patients. As the balance is now moving to local 
procurement by Strategic Health Authorities and Primary Care Trusts, this 
will play to Care UK’s breadth of knowledge and experience of working in 
partnership at a local level with the public sector.
C  Patient choice, exercised at the point of referral, will mean that the public will be 
able to choose to use our facilities – whether it be for a hip replacement, a scan 
or an endoscopy. 
C  Care UK has an excellent infection control record. 
C  Department of Health patient satisfaction surveys consistently rank our 
Independent Sector Treatment Centres at the upper end of the top 20% 
of NHS Hospitals.
The Government White Paper ‘Our health, our care, our 
say’ published in January 2006, set out the objective of 
transferring an increasing amount of care from hospitals to 
the community. In addition to reducing waiting times, the 
increased government spend on health care has led to the 
wider use of technology and higher public expectations. 
The powerful combination of expected demographic changes, 
significant advances in medical technology and greater 
personal autonomy promises to revolutionise how and 
where people are treated. Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2007 3
Social care
Care UK has been a key player in the development of 
person-centred, outcome-based care at a national level. 
We provide residential care, home care and support for 
a wide range of conditions and individuals. Whether it 
be care for older people or children or those with learning 
disabilities or mental health conditions, we take a personal 
approach in supporting all service users.
C  Service users are becoming more closely involved in decisions about their 
own care and will increasingly choose how to spend an individualised 
budget or their own funds. This creates an opportunity for Care UK with 
our established track record of more personalised care.
C  We take quality very seriously – in our care homes this means a clinical 
governance team dealing with issues including falls, medicines 
management, infection control and dignity for older people. 
C  In some cases the combination of specialist nurses, supported by care 
workers, has enabled people who have previously been in long-term 
hospital care to be cared for at home amongst their families.
C  Over time there will be an increasing trend towards the new policy direction 
of individualised budgets and self-payment. Care UK is ideally placed to 
respond to this change.
