 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 08
Chief Executive’s review
170,000 patients 
Care UK is the largest 
independent provider 
of nationally procured 
treatment services
Mike Parish Chief Executive
social Care
The group’s Social Care activities 
comprise the Residential Care, 
Community Care and Specialist 
Care divisions, which are 
commented on individually over 
the following pages. Aggregate 
Social Care revenue has increased 
by 10% with a rise in adjusted 
operating profit of 4%. The reduced 
operating margin reflects the cost 
implications of the first phase of 
additional holiday entitlements 
arising under the Work and 
Families Act 2006, which took 
effect from 1 October 2007, as 
well as the impact of operational 
start‑up difficulties with two 
Community Care contracts.
Residential Care 
The Residential Care division 
achieved growth in both revenue 
and operating profit of close to 
7%, maintaining operating margins. 
The total number of beds at the 
end of the financial year, including 
day care places, was 3,303 compared 
with 3,217 at the beginning of the 
year. Financial occupancy (“beds 
paid for”) was similar to the 97% 
level achieved in the previous year. 
Care UK is encouraged by the NHS 
strategy, supported by the policies of 
both Labour and Conservative Parties, 
to introduce a wider range of non‑NHS 
providers to stimulate competition.
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   8 19/12/2008   16:03:39 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 09
Social Care 
aggregate revenue 
(£m)
2005 2006 2007 2008
155.6
181.0
216.2
237.7
Fee rates in the year averaged 
£621 per week compared with 
£602 per week in the previous 
year, an increase of 3%.
Ellesmere House, a new 
residential care facility in the 
Royal Borough of Kensington and 
Chelsea, commenced services in 
March 2008. This is a 60 bed 
facility operated by Care UK 
under a minimum 21 year 
management contract, with 
30 of the beds being contracted. 
Good progress has been made 
on the construction of the new 
care home in Slough with service 
provision expected to commence 
as planned by spring 2009. This 
is a 120 bed residential care facility, 
with 90 beds contracted for a 
minimum period of 15 years.
Good progress has also been 
made on the construction 
of the greenfield care home 
in Chelmsford. This is a 120 bed 
home being targeted primarily at 
self‑funding residents and is on 
schedule to open as planned 
by late spring 2009.
Acquisition of 
Partnership Health Group A
In August 2008 Care UK completed the acquisition of the 50% 
interest in PHG not previously owned from Life Healthcare.
PHG brings four highly successful and well run ISTCs into the group’s 
portfolio, located in Plymouth, Barlborough Links (near Chesterfield), 
Maidstone and Ilford (North East London). A fifth centre, in 
Southampton, opened in October 2008. All of the existing centres 
have consistently delivered good clinical outcomes and high patient 
satisfaction levels; for example, as with Care UK’s centres, no inpatient 
cases of the “superbugs” MRSA and clostridium difficile have occurred 
in any of PHG’s centres.
Plymouth and Barlborough Links are specialist orthopaedic centres; 
North East London provides a range of general and orthopaedic 
surgical services, as will the new centre in Southampton. Maidstone 
provides general surgery and chemotherapy services. The PHG centres 
will be combined with Care UK’s existing ISTCs that were originally 
procured under a single DoH contract.
Full ownership of PHG positions Care UK as the leading independent 
sector provider to the NHS of ISTC and primary care services and 
presents the group with a significant opportunity to be a key 
contributor to the NHS strategy to provide greater patient 
choice and service enhancement.
Social Care aggregate results
  2008 2007 
Year ended 30 September  £m £m
Revenue  237.7 216.2
Operating profit  28.2 27.5
Adjusted operating profit*  29.4 28.2
Operating margin*  12.3% 13.0%
* Before amortisation of intangible assets of £1.2m (2007: £0.7m).
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   9 19/12/2008   16:03:44 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 10
Chief Executive’s review
continued
94%
patient satisfaction 
level in integrated 
community‑based 
services
social Care continued
Residential Care continued
We are currently finalising a 
preferred bidder appointment 
for a new care home, which will 
have around 100 beds. The home 
will be opened under a 25 year 
contract for around two‑thirds of 
the care beds with the remaining 
one‑third planned to be marketed 
either as NHS continuing care beds 
or to self‑funding individuals. 
In this case, the relevant Local 
Authority will fund the construction 
of this home, with Care UK entering 
into a 25 year lease for the site. 
Consequently, our required level 
of capital investment for this 
project will be low. Services are 
expected to commence in this 
home in late summer 2010.
The board has approved in 
principle the development 
of a new 74 bed greenfield 
residential care home in 
Crowborough, East Sussex. 
This new home will be targeted 
at the self‑funding market and a 
detailed planning application has 
Barking and Dagenham GP Practice 
and Walk‑in Centre A
Challenge
To develop an integrated GP Practice and Walk‑in Centre in one 
of the most deprived areas in England where patients with the 
greatest need have historically had poor access to a GP .
Result
Care UK were awarded this contract as a result of the first national 
procurement for a general practice. Operated on behalf of Barking 
and Dagenham PCT trust, the service was up‑and‑running within 
just six weeks. 25 new patients have joined the practice every week 
since opening and it is currently providing a service for around 
3,000 patients. 
The Walk‑in service, which operates alongside the GP Practice, 
provides immediate access for 80 patients every day and is open 
365 days a year from 8.00am to 8.00pm. 
The success of this unit has in part shaped the provision of general 
practice services across the country.
As a result of the success of and the high demand for these primary 
care services, the PCT asked Care UK to provide a Clinical Assessment 
Treatment Service (“CATS”) in addition (i.e. one‑stop outpatient 
services) capable of offering five different specialties: dermatology, 
urology, neurology, gynaecology and ENT . 
The service currently sees 400 patients each month saving 
patients the journey to hospital and allowing them to benefit 
from assessment, diagnostics and treatment (including minor 
procedures) close to their home. The service aims to provide a 
one‑stop facility with reduced requirement for follow‑up and 
onward referral to secondary care services. 
The quality of these integrated community‑based services is high. 
Scores for contract and service quality consistently place us in the 
top 10% of practices and we have a patient satisfaction level 
of 94%. The safety of services is overseen and accredited by 
the Health Care Commission. 
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   10 19/12/2008   16:03:44 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 11
Residential Care
 2008 2007 
Year ended 30 September £m £m
Revenue 100.1 93.8
Operating profit 17.5 16.4
Operating margin 17.5% 17.5%
now been submitted. We have 
decided to withdraw from the 
development of an 84 bed 
residential care home in 
Timperley, Greater Manchester, 
announced in May 2008, following 
the attempted renegotiation of 
agreed lease terms by the developer. 
As indicated in the Interim 
Management Statement 
released on 18 August 2008, 
we have decided to postpone the 
planned creation of a property 
company structure given the 
current uncertain market 
conditions. We continue to 
evaluate potential greenfield 
developments on an individual 
leasehold basis, but anticipate that 
the potential acquisition of existing 
individual care homes or small groups 
of homes may prove to offer better 
value than the construction of new 
properties in the immediate future. 
Community Care 
Community Care maintained 
its strong growth record with 
revenue up by 21% over the prior 
year, of which organic growth 
represented 9% with the balance 
coming from acquisitions made 
in the current and previous years.
The operating margin within 
Community Care has shown 
a reduction compared with 
the previous year as a result 
of the costs of additional holiday 
entitlements arising from the Work 
and Families Act 2006, along with 
specific operational factors relating 
particularly to the start‑up of new 
contracts in Hertfordshire and 
the London Borough of Harrow. 
Services under both of these 
contracts commenced during the 
year and at the year end amounted 
to around 5,000 hours per week 
in total. Excluding the effects 
of these factors, the operating 
margin within Community Care 
would have been similar to the 
level achieved in 2007. Management 
changes have been implemented 
to address the resolution of these 
operational issues and avoid similar 
recurrence, although we do expect 
some continuing impact on margin 
in the current financial year.
During the year, new and 
renewed contracts have been 
awarded in Cheshire, Surrey, 
St Helens, Southampton and the 
Royal Borough of Kensington and 
Chelsea; the net expected growth 
from newly won contracts 
is approximately 5,000 hours 
per week. 
In line with our strategy of 
achieving growth both from 
selective acquisitions as well 
as organic development, we 
acquired Badminton Healthcare, 
based in South Gloucestershire, 
in February 2008 and Robnet, 
based in Wolverhampton and 
Dudley, in May 2008. These 
acquisitions have added around 
3,500 hours per week and increase 
our coverage in the South West 
and West Midlands regions. 
We have currently chosen not to 
make further acquisitions as we 
expect valuations to fall in line 
with wider market conditions.
At 30 September 2008, the 
weekly total of hours of care 
provided amounted to around 
123,000 compared with 115,000 
at the start of the financial year, 
an increase of 7%. The total 
hours delivered in the year 
amounted to around 6.2m 
compared with 5.2m in the 
previous year, an increase 
of around 19%.
Community Care
 2008 2007 
Year ended 30 September £m £m
Revenue* 77.3 63.7
Operating profit 4.3 4.6
Adjusted operating profit** 5.5 5.3
Operating margin** 7.1% 8.3%
*  Before elimination of inter‑segmental revenues of £nil (2007: £0.6m).
** Before amortisation of intangible assets of £1.2m (2007: £0.7m).
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   11 19/12/2008   16:03:52 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 12
Chief Executive’s review
continued
social Care continued
Community Care continued
Community and home‑based 
care is increasingly favoured by 
commissioners over residential 
and hospital alternatives and 
Local Authorities are clearly 
tending to award larger 
homecare contracts to fewer 
providers. Consequently, this area 
remains of strategic importance 
to Care UK and we are actively 
seeking opportunities to extend 
our community‑based service 
offering. In particular, we are 
seeking to leverage synergy 
opportunities with our Specialist 
Care and Health Care capabilities.
Specialist Care 
Specialist Care has delivered 
revenue growth of 3% in the 
year, all of which was organic.
The Mental Health business achieved 
revenue growth of 4% and an 
improvement in the operating 
margin, mainly through higher 
occupancy levels. We continue 
to review opportunities for the 
development of community‑based 
mental health services in response to 
the preferences of commissioners, 
whilst removing residential 
capacity where it no longer 
meets service needs.
In Learning Disabilities, revenue 
growth of around 5% was 
achieved following the award 
of a new contract in Scotland 
and a number of extended 
services in England. The growth 
in operating profit in the year 
was slightly muted following 
the good growth experienced 
in 2007. Care UK is particularly 
strong in the provision of 
“supported living” services that 
are favoured by commissioners 
and service users and we continue 
to seek opportunities both to grow 
and to broaden our service offering 
in this attractive business area.
In Children’s Services we have 
seen a revenue reduction of 3% 
as a result of challenging market 
conditions for residential care, with 
commissioners increasingly placing 
young people for shorter term 
stays and seeking generally to 
minimise higher fee residential 
placements. Whilst the operating 
margin in this business has 
remained positive for the year, 
we are continuing to rationalise 
our capacity to better match 
prevailing demand. 
The Specialist Care management 
team continue to be focussed on 
the improvement of operating 
performance across each of the 
businesses within this division 
and on developing our good 
market positions in mental 
health and learning disabilities 
supported living services.
health Care 
The group’s Heath Care activities 
in 2008 comprised the Primary 
Care and Secondary Care divisions, 
together with PHG, which has been 
fully owned by the group since 
acquiring the 50% interest 
not previously owned on 
1 August 2008. 
The Health Care business has 
shown good improvement in 
financial performance compared 
with 2007, with revenue increasing 
by 73% and adjusted operating 
profit increasing by 112%.
Care UK is particularly 
strong in the provision 
of “supported 
living” learning 
disability services 
that are favoured 
by commissioners
Specialist Care
 2008 2007 
Year ended 30 September £m £m
Revenue 60.3 58.7
Operating profit 6.4 6.5
Operating margin 10.6% 11.1%
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   12 19/12/2008   16:03:52 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 13
The improvement has come 
from the full year contribution 
of Mercury Health, acquired in 
April 2007, the full ownership 
of PHG for the latter part of the 
financial year and from growing 
scale in the Primary Care business. 
Approximately 35% of the total 
revenue reported within Health 
Care in the year was derived from 
PHG, around 13% from the group’s 
original Primary Care business 
and the balance from the former 
Mercury Health business.
The West Midlands diagnostics 
contract that was terminated 
by the DoH in November 2007 
contributed revenue of £9.1m 
during the first half of the year with 
a small adjusted operating profit. 
With effect from 1 January 2009, 
services within the Health Care 
division will be focussed in 
two areas, Primary Care 
and Secondary Care, which 
are reported on further 
on pages 14 to 17. 
Service 
development A
Development of residential services is focusing on individual care packages 
that respond to the independence and individual choice agenda for those 
who choose to receive care in a residential environment rather than in an 
acute setting.
Development of our community based services aims to assist increasing 
numbers of people to stay in their own home supporting their short, 
medium and longer term needs, through concentrating on the outcomes 
of the services we provide.
In specialist care, learning disabilities is a key focus for the business. 
Community‑based ‘supported living’ solutions are being developed 
that respond to the local government agenda to enable people to live 
in their homes with dignity and independence.
As the clear leader in Independent Sector Treatment Centre provision, 
Care UK is actively researching local healthcare needs and patient 
expectations for the post contract period and identifying future service 
developments which will respond to the needs of the communities served.
In unscheduled care we continue to expand our urgent care, and 
walk‑in services that enable PCTs to ensure that patients can be seen 
at the right time by the right person in the right place. 
Prison healthcare is a growing area of expertise 
for Care UK. A strong emphasis on collaborative 
partnerships with NHS and third sector providers 
and an ability to apply knowledge from across 
the business enables Care UK to offer single 
source solutions to commissioners.
Health Care 
aggregate revenue
(£m)
2005 2006 2007 2008
13.7
18.4
60.1
103.9
Health Care aggregate results
  2008 2007 
Year ended 30 September  £m £m
Revenue  103.9 60.1
Operating profit  (11.5) 0.6
Adjusted operating profit*  10.9 5.2
Operating margin*  10.5% 8.6%
*  Before amortisation of intangible assets of £3.8m (2007: £1.8m), impairment 
charges of £15.9m (2007: £nil) and joint venture net financing costs and taxation 
of £2.7m (2007: £2.8m).
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   13 19/12/2008   16:03:59 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 14
Chief Executive’s review
continued
health Care continued
Primary Care 
Performance across the current 
range of primary care services 
has been encouraging. The 
GP practices, out‑of‑hours 
and walk‑in services have all 
seen increasing patient numbers 
and new prison health services 
commenced at HMP Garth, 
Wymott, Preston and Brixton. 
New Clinical Assessment and 
Treatment Support services 
(“CATS”) also commenced in 
the financial year in Barking 
and Dagenham and North 
Manchester along with a 
new five‑year contracted GP 
service in Greater Manchester.
A new seven‑year diagnostics 
contract in Rotherham is on 
schedule to commence services 
in spring 2009 and good progress 
has been made on the mobilisation 
of the Greater Manchester CATS 
service that was procured under 
the Phase 2 ISTC programme 
and reached financial close in 
June 2008. This service will be 
provided by highly sophisticated 
mobile units visiting seven sites 
around Greater Manchester and 
will deliver a range of services 
to NHS patients. Services will 
include assessment and treatment 
of minor injuries, diagnostics 
and scanning, endoscopies and 
pre‑operative assessments, covering 
a number of specialities including 
orthopaedic, musculoskeletal, 
Ears, Nose and Throat (“ENT”), 
urology and general surgery. 
Services under this seven‑year 
contract are on track to commence 
in early 2009 as planned.
The Primary Care team has been 
actively engaged in bidding for 
various services to be provided 
to NHS patients under the 
“Equitable Access to Primary 
Medical Care Services” initiative. 
Given that many of these 
opportunities are relatively small, 
we are being highly selective in 
targeting projects that offer an 
entry point for further potential 
developments. We are pleased to 
have recently been awarded two 
small new primary care contracts 
for commencement in spring 2009.
We believe that we are 
well positioned to be a leading 
provider in a Primary Care market 
that is being identified by 
both the Government and 
Ellesmere House A
Opened in 2008 by HRH The Countess 
of Wessex, Ellesmere House was recently 
awarded a two star rating from the 
Commission for Social Care Inspection, 
the highest rating a new home can 
receive on its first inspection.
Inspectors spoke to residents who 
commented that the home was “like a 
5‑star hotel complete with care services”.
Specialising in residential and nursing 
care and developed in partnership with the 
Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, 
Ellesmere House is a beautiful environment 
with a lot of bright open spaces. The state 
of the art building includes courtyards and 
contemplation gardens, with opportunities 
for residents to enjoy their own space, 
as well as lounges and recreational areas 
for group activities.
The innovative approach taken by staff at 
Ellesmere House is called “ Activity Based 
Care” and is simply a move away from 
residential care as ‘doing for’ towards a more 
creative, adaptable and beneficial ‘doing 
with’ approach. Each resident is supported 
to succeed with extra help during a huge 
range of daily tasks, often reflecting their 
own life history or work experiences. 
Activities range from tending a flower 
garden to helping with jobs they would 
normally do in their own home, thus 
helping residents to maintain health, 
well being and independence. 
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   14 19/12/2008   16:04:01 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 15
the Conservative Party to offer 
considerable scope for extended 
services and greater choice 
for patients.
Secondary Care 
The GC8 Wave 1 ISTC contract 
acquired with Mercury Health 
in 2007 has continued generally 
to perform well and in line with 
our expectations at the time of 
the Mercury Health acquisition. 
In particular the centre in 
Portsmouth performed strongly 
during the year as did the smaller 
centre in Wycombe, which is 
focused on diagnostics services. 
We have now agreed a revised 
case‑mix for the centre in Medway, 
which we believe will result in the 
contract utilisation for this centre 
becoming on a par with our 
other centres. The final GC8 
centre, a diagnostics centre in 
Havant, was opened as planned 
in January 2008 and is also now 
beginning to see improved 
patient volumes.
Operational performance at the 
Sussex Orthopaedic Treatment 
Centre (“SOTC”) in Haywards 
Heath has improved significantly 
in the second half of the year. 
In health care, we are pleased to have established a 
number of entry points and service competencies that 
we expect to leverage during the coming years.
Market 
development A
Care UK is well placed for growing its business 
thanks to a rapidly growing base of relationships 
with commissioning authorities. As a result of 
continuing success in bidding for public sector 
contracts we currently serve all ten Strategic 
Health Authorities in England, one in three 
PCT s, 28% of GPs and 130 local Authorities 
(approximately 50% of the principal 
commissioning authorities).
This geographic development also means that 
one in three of the UK population lives within 
the catchment area of a Care UK facility.
The growth in number and spread of our 
facilities will mean that brand awareness will 
benefit from personal experience, word of mouth 
(from satisfied service users) and from our staff 
acting as brand ambassadors in their local 
community. In combination with an increasing 
investment in consumer marketing in the coming 
years this will provide a strong platform for growth.
The PCTs we provide services to cover almost one 
third of the UK population.
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   15 19/12/2008   16:04:02 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 16
Chief Executive’s review
continued
health Care continued
Secondary Care continued
During this period we have 
significantly reduced the high 
patient waiting list inherited with 
Mercury Health and have agreed 
an enhancement of services in 
line with the NHS “18 week 
Referral to Treatment target”. 
Subsequent to the year end, 
both of these matters have been 
formalised in a Deed of Variation 
to the original GC8 contract. 
As from 1 January 2009, the GC8 
centres in Portsmouth, Wycombe 
and Havant will form part of the 
Primary Care business whilst the 
SOTC and the Medway centre 
will, together with the whole 
of the PHG business, form 
the basis of Secondary Care.
Independent patient survey data 
indicates that 95% of patients 
reported either an excellent or 
very good overall experience and 
that all patients were satisfied. 
All Care UK and PHG centres 
continue to experience zero 
hospital acquired infections 
for the “superbugs” MRSA 
and clostridium difficile.
During the year PHG continued 
to perform strongly both clinically 
and financially. In the most recent 
patient satisfaction surveys 
undertaken, the PHG centres 
have out‑performed the benchmark 
of the top 20% of NHS hospitals 
on every one of over 20 measures. 
We completed the acquisition of 
the 50% of PHG not previously 
owned on 1 August 2008 and 
have subsequently integrated 
PHG within the group’s Health 
Care division.
The Phase 2 ISTC in Southampton, 
located in part of the Royal South 
Hants Hospital, reached financial 
close in June 2008. Services under 
this seven‑year contract have now 
commenced, with outpatient services 
starting in late October 2008 and 
the first inpatient procedures being 
carried out in early November 2008. 
The range of procedures to be 
provided covers specialties including 
orthopaedics, oral, urology, ENT , 
gynaecology, ophthalmology and 
general surgery, as well as a 
number of endoscopies. This 
project demonstrates the benefits 
of independent sector development 
and management of existing NHS 
infrastructure, an area of particular 
interest to NHS management.
The key focus in the Health Care 
business is to achieve continuity 
of the group’s Wave 1 ISTC centres 
beyond their initial contracted 
periods. In particular, we are 
exploring the opportunity both 
to recover the residual capital 
investment value and to continue 
to operate the centres through a 
leasehold arrangement with the 
respective PCTs. Since gaining 
full ownership of PHG we have 
been encouraged by the positive 
disposition of both the DoH 
and the commissioning PCTs and 
their clear interest in determining 
mutually agreeable terms. We hope 
to make further, substantive progress 
in the first half of the current 
financial year. As part of this 
process, we are also seeking 
opportunities to expand and 
enhance the services provided in 
95%
excellent or 
very good overall 
patient experience 
in PHG’s four ISTCs 
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   16 19/12/2008   16:04:03 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2008 17
each centre so that they become 
ever more important contributors 
to the local health economies.
Generally in Health Care, we are 
encouraged by the NHS strategy, 
supported by the policies of both 
Labour and Conservative Parties, 
to introduce a wider range of 
non‑NHS providers to stimulate 
competition and by the drive to 
empower patients with greater 
freedom to choose the provider 
of their choice. The intention to 
migrate service provision from 
PCT Provider Arms to non‑NHS 
organisations is seen as the next 
significant step in establishing a 
mixed economy of service providers. 
This is driving behavioural change 
across the NHS at a remarkable 
rate and we are pleased to have 
established a number of entry 
points and service competencies 
that we expect to leverage during 
the coming years.
MikE Parish
Chief Executive
19 December 2008
7
new primary care 
contracts awarded 
during the year and 
since the year end
0%
hospital acquired 
infections for 
the “superbugs” 
MRSA and 
clostridium difficile
People 
development A
We believe that a well‑trained and motivated 
workforce is essential to the successful delivery of 
high quality services. On 12 June 2008 we signed 
the Skills Pledge, which publicly demonstrates 
our commitment to support all our employees 
to develop their basic skills, including literacy 
and numeracy and work towards relevant, 
valuable qualifications. 
We want to ensure that all our staff are skilled, 
competent and able to make a full contribution 
to the continued success of Care UK whilst also 
maximising their personal development and 
job satisfaction. 
This year we also have enhanced divisional and 
corporate induction programmes and launched 
a series of leadership development programmes 
in association with the University of Warwick.
_2_CUK_ar08_section1_review.indd   17 19/12/2008   16:04:08
