 04 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
CHAiRMAn’s st AtEMEnt
JOHN NASH
Care UK’s performance during 2009 
demonstrates the resilience of the group 
and the benefits of investment in the market 
emerging as the NHS opens up to competition.
Adjusted operating profit, before 
non-recurring items and amortisation 
and impairment charges, increased 7% 
to £38.9m (2008: £36.4m) on revenue, 
including share of joint venture revenue in 
2008, up 20% to £410.0m (2008: £341.6m). 
Adjusted profit before tax rose 17% to 
£28.1m (2008: £24.1m). Adjusted basic 
earnings per share were up 13% to 31.46p 
(2008: 27.92p). Total basic earnings per 
share were 23.04p (2008: loss of 4.98p). 
Operating cash flow was £58.1m (2008: 
£46.9m), an increase of 24%, representing 
a cash conversion ratio of 149% (2008: 147%) 
measured against adjusted operating profit 
excluding share of joint venture operating 
profit in 2008.
The most notable financial performance 
in the group has been in the Health Care 
division, partly reflecting the full-year effect 
of full ownership of PHG. A number of 
important and innovative services have 
commenced in this division during the year, 
which are yet to reach their full operational 
capability. Notwithstanding this, revenue 
and adjusted operating profit increased by 
54% and 44% respectively and the division 
represented around 40% of both revenue 
and adjusted operating profit.
Overall, the aggregate revenue of the 
three Social Care divisions was 5% higher 
than the previous year, all of which was 
organic growth, with adjusted operating 
profit 4% lower. Solid performances in both 
Residential Care and Specialist Care were 
balanced by the operational challenges in 
Community Care reported in the interim 
results, which is now showing signs of recovery.
Employees and quality
Over the course of a year, Care UK 
cares for approximately half a million 
people through many different kinds of 
service, with a workforce that is dedicated 
to providing excellent care. We are fortunate 
in having such a committed and professional 
team of employees and I would like to 
thank them on behalf of the board, 
our patients and our other service users.
On 1 September 2009, Doug Umbers 
joined the group and the board as 
Managing Director, Social Care to 
assume responsibility for the operational 
performance and development of the 
group’s three Social Care divisions. Doug 
brings significant strategic and general 
management experience to the group 
and we are pleased to have him on board.
Our service user and patient base, 
as well as the UK population generally, 
are becoming increasingly diverse in their 
make-up. Care UK as an organisation seeks 
to reflect that diversity and to attract, retain 
and develop a wholly inclusive group of 
people who put the needs of our patients 
and service users at the heart of everything 
we do, recognising the difference that each 
of us can make and aspiring to deliver 
innovative solutions to individuals’ care 
needs. These goals have been embedded 
into the group’s “Fulfilling Lives” programme, 
a group-wide initiative to promote these 
values throughout Care UK. 
Dividend
The board is proposing a final dividend 
of 3.40p per share (2008: 3.10p), 
an increase of 10%, which will be paid 
on 17 February 2010 to shareholders on 
the Register on 22 January 2010. This level 
of increase is consistent with the group’s 
previously stated dividend policy.
500,000  
service users
over the course of a year. Care UK cares for 
approximately half a million people through many 
different kinds of service, consistently delivering 
industry leading quality and satisfaction ratings.
These results demonstrate 
the group’s resilience and the 
benefits of investment in the 
market emerging as the NHS 
opens up to competition. Our 
high levels of contracted revenue 
and the non-discretionary nature 
of our services offer unusually 
good income visibility and 
relative market stability.
_3_CUK_ar09_section1_review.indd   4 18/12/2009   14:51:29 Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
05 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
Bid approach
On 30 September 2009, the board 
confirmed that it had recently received 
an unsolicited approach from Bridgepoint 
Capital Limited regarding a possible offer 
for the company. The approach was very 
preliminary in nature and, having discussed 
it with its advisors, Investec, the board 
rejected it.
Outlook
The group’s Social Care and Health Care 
businesses continue to benefit from high 
levels of contracted revenue and the 
non-discretionary nature of our services 
offer unusually good income visibility 
and relative market stability.
The challenges to public sector funding 
over the coming years are apparent and 
our experience and expectation is that to 
achieve higher quality services at better 
value, public sector commissioners are 
increasingly turning to the independent 
sector to drive efficiency and reform.
Our Social Care markets are well established 
and we expect that the positive impact of 
funding pressures will be to further outsource 
services currently provided in-house and to 
utilise fewer providers, generating genuine 
efficiencies of scale. We are also continuing 
to see funding focussed on people with the 
greatest need and this is best delivered by 
better resourced and effective providers.
In Health Care, there is a great opportunity 
to shift care from hospital environments 
to primary and community care settings. 
Services such as our enhanced GP-led 
health centres and consultant-led clinical 
assessment are demonstrating material 
savings for the NHS whilst delivering 
superior health benefits for patients.
We are pleased that centrally led initiatives 
are becoming embedded in mainstream 
Primary Care Trust (“PCT”) and patient-led 
procurement and choice. During the year 
and post year-end, we have been awarded 
14 new contracts, all procured by PCTs, and 
we are now seeing referrals to our specialist 
hospitals coming directly from GPs and 
patients, with dramatic increases once 
they are able to directly book referrals.
We are disappointed with progress with 
the post contract planning process for our 
specialist hospitals and the consequent lack 
of clarity and certainty. However, we remain 
optimistic that we will continue to operate 
most, if not all, of these high quality 
hospitals into the longer term.
Successive Governments have progressively 
introduced market-based reforms in social 
care and, latterly, in health care. It is remarkable 
to observe the distance we have travelled 
from historic ideological commitment to 
state-run monopolistic provision. The recent 
announcement by the Government to embed 
into legislation the 18-week target time for 
elective surgery and patient choice of provider 
is the latest example of this inexorable reform. 
We welcome recent policy statements by 
the opposition Conservative Party in the UK 
which have substantially strengthened their 
commitment to more open market reform 
to allow new providers of NHS services and 
for greater freedom for patients to choose 
their GP and hospital provider. This builds 
on the significant reforms introduced by 
the current Government in recent years 
and means both the largest political parties 
support the role that independent providers 
can play in helping to deliver the highest 
quality and most efficient care to patients. 
As well as such market reform and 
stimulation, policy reform generally is 
focussed on the migration of services 
from hospital to community and social 
care solutions in order to improve care 
quality and reduce cost. This is wholly 
aligned with Care UK’s long-term health 
and social care strategy and places 
the company extremely well to drive 
exceptional levels of long-term growth.
JOHn nAsH
Chairman
10 December 2009
_3_CUK_ar09_section1_review.indd   5 18/12/2009   14:51:30
