 02 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
At A glAnCE
In the past year Care UK has cared for more than 
half a million people across the UK.
Care UK is delivering on its promise of fulfilling lives. We are improving the speed and ease 
of access to high quality health and social care; bringing services closer to people’s homes; 
bringing down waiting lists for non-emergency surgery; offering 8am to 8pm access to primary 
care facilities; and delivering industry leading quality of care in all of our businesses.
For more information browse the 
following pages or visit us online 
at reports.careuk.com/2009
some important milestones during the year include:
October 2008
Care UK opens southampton 
nHs t reatment Centre 
In October 2008 Care UK opened the Southampton NHS Treatment 
Centre, a brand new, state of the art facility providing high quality 
specialist care for the people of Hampshire. The hospital provides 
treatments in nine specialties, including hip and knee replacements, 
ear, nose and throat and ophthalmology.
January 2009
Health Minister congratulates 
istC achievements in Plymouth 
In January the Health Minister, Ben Bradshaw, visited the Peninsula 
NHS Treatment Centre to congratulate staff after it came top in a 
national league table. Commissioned by NHS Plymouth, the specialist 
hospital has consistently achieved utilisation rates above 100% of 
targeted levels and consistently scores extremely highly in customer 
satisfaction surveys with over 98% of patients rating their care as 
“excellent” or “good”. 
February 2009
launch of greater Manchester CA ts 
In February, Care UK launched a highly innovative CATS in Greater 
Manchester. Using superbly equipped state of the art mobile units, 
CATS serves seven different locations bringing one stop diagnostics 
and treatment, including CT and MRI scanning, to areas that have 
traditionally had poor access to healthcare facilities. The CATS 
service reduces waiting times, offers 8am to 8pm opening and 
greatly reduces the number of appointments patients need to 
complete their treatment.
March 2009
new cataract service launched at Medway 
and two new residential homes opened
As part of our policy of working closely with Primary Care Trusts 
(“PCTs”) to deliver continuous improvement and innovation, in March 
Care UK launched a new cataract service at the Medway hospital in 
Gillingham, Kent. As with the other surgical procedures carried 
out at Medway, the service is proving popular with 98% of patients 
reporting their care experience as “excellent” or “good”.
Two new residential care homes opened in Chelmsford and Slough. 
The homes and their grounds were designed with the needs and 
comfort of residents in mind. Activity based care, which enables 
residents to continue to lead active and independent lives, will 
feature prominently in the running of the homes.
August 2009
Referrals jump at Barlborough 
Following its inclusion on the directly bookable part of the NHS 
“Choose and Book” system, which allows GPs and patients to book 
their surgery direct with the hospital, the Barlborough NHS Treatment 
Centre saw referrals jump significantly. This reflects the exceptional 
reputation that the specialist hospital has built up since opening just 
over four years ago. Word of mouth recommendation by satisfied 
patients is the largest single factor attracting patients.
October 2009
islington care home rated “excellent” 
by regulator
In October Highbury New Park home, operated in partnership with 
Islington Borough Council, became Care UK’s 20th home to receive 
the highest possible quality rating from the independent regulator, 
the CQC. CQC inspections are unannounced and cover the standards 
of personal care, social activities and the performance of management 
and staff.
november 2009
Work gets underway on new nursing 
home in Portsmouth
In November Care UK launched the build of a 92-bed specialised 
nursing home to provide high quality dementia care. The design 
of the home reflects Care UK’s activity based care philosophy 
focussing on what people can do rather than what they can’t. 
The home features an internet café, physiotherapy facilities, 
a gym, library and garden room.
2009
Care UK offers a new start to many 
during economic downturn 
While many traditional UK industries have had to make job cuts 
during the economic downturn Care UK has been continuing to 
recruit. By talking direct to employers who are losing staff Care UK 
has been able to attract high quality candidates many of whom 
had not previously considered a career in care. 
_3_CUK_ar09_section1_review.indd   2 18/12/2009   14:51:22 Review of the year Corporate governance Financial statements
03 Care UK Plc Annual report and accounts 2009 reports.careuk.com/2009
Health Care social Care
Our nation-wide services include:
11 GP-led  
health centres
combining a gP practice and a walk-in service. 
two further health centres will open their doors 
next year.
59 residential  
care homes
providing nursing, dementia and residential care 
services for over 3,500 residents. three further homes, 
with a total of 236 beds, are scheduled for opening 
in 2010 and 2011.
3 CATS
provide a highly convenient one-stop service 
for patients offering a range of diagnostics and 
minor procedures. 
6.3m hours of 
community care
including personal care, domestic support, floating 
support and rehabilitation delivered to over 16,000 
people across the UK in their own homes.
1,000+ specialist 
care places
ranging from community care and specialist 
rehabilitation to high dependency residential care.
supporting people with mental health conditions, 
learning disabilities, eating disorders or history 
of self harm, as well as delivering children’s and 
fostering services.
7 specialist  
hospitals
offering increased patient choice and reduced 
waiting times for a range of non-urgent surgery, 
including major and minor orthopaedic surgery, 
cataracts, urology, oral surgery and a number of other 
modalities, as well as diagnostics and post-operative care.
40+ Primary Care locations cover a range of 
different services, including the following: 
_3_CUK_ar09_section1_review.indd   3 18/12/2009   14:51:29
