 Meeting the demands of the UK social care market
We have national coverage in a highly fragmented UK social care market. The total market  
value is now estimated, using an updated model (Laing and Buisson 2013) to be worth £7bn for 
children services and £8bn for the care of younger adults (below 65 years of age) in the learning 
disability and mental health categories. The private sector share of this market has developed 
through successful outsourcing of services and this trend is expected to continue. Local 
Authorities have largely protected their budgets for children and complex younger adults.
Adult Learning Disabilities
The care and support of people who  
have learning disability has evolved over  
the past decade into a broad division 
between those people requiring specialist 
and more sophisticated support and those 
who can be helped to live independently. 
CareTech has always operated at the 
highest acuity range on the social care 
spectrum, providing individual tailor made 
solutions for people living in their own 
homes, residential care or independent 
supported living schemes.
Although at a slow rate of change, adults 
with learning disabilities are increasingly 
being provided with direct funding to 
enable them to purchase their own care 
and support. We already work with service 
users to deliver self-directed support 
packages and see this as an important 
aspect of our service model.
For many people, and especially those with 
the most complex intellectual or physical 
challenges, residential care will continue  
to be the preferred option although the 
services will change in their approach as  
we move towards a more enabling, modern 
type of service. We increasingly offer 
several types of supported living and 
packages of individualised self-directed 
support to people in their own homes.
Foster Care
“Foster Care is on a rising trend in terms  
of both numbers placed in foster care  
and expenditure by local authorities.”  
Laing and Buisson 2013.
Foster Care is commonly recognised  
as the best care solution for “looked after” 
children. Except in special circumstances, 
children thrive in foster care where they are 
supported within an ordinary family home 
and with trained foster carers. 
CareTech provides for both mainstream  
and specialist foster care through small 
supportive groups across the UK. Provision 
includes a highly respected service for 
physically and intellectually disabled 
children as well as support for children  
with sensory impairments. However, not  
all complex or disadvantaged children  
need to come into care and there are  
many good reasons why they should be 
supported and monitored in the own family 
homes. We provide foster care family 
assessments and ongoing support to 
children who remain with their birth 
families and in their family home.
Mental Health
The OECD recently published a report 
stating that mental Illness accounts for 4.5% 
of the UK GDP or approximately £70bn 
each year. NHS budgets for intervention  
in mental illness are stretched and they 
increasing rely on early discharge of 
patients to reduce cost.
CareTech’s mental health development  
team works in partnerships with the NHS  
and social service departments to ensure  
a successful transition out of acute care, 
delivering pathways to ordinary life. We  
also have an outstanding track record for 
diverting people away from acute care  
and supporting them in their own homes.  
For many people mental health long  
stay hospitals were a place of refuge but 
that opportunity is now long gone. Those 
same people are increasingly finding 
themselves within the criminal justice 
system and often as members of the 
long-term prison population. It is in 
everyone’s interest that those people with 
ongoing low-level mental health conditions 
return to an ordinary community life with 
the support that they need to make a 
positive contribution to society. CareTech’s 
highly effective care teams are developing 
new ways to offer support under these 
circumstances and we believe that this  
will be an important growth platform in 
years to come.
2 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Caring every day
Adult Services Children Services
Group at a glance
Five specialist operating divisions Young People Residential Services
While foster care remains the best choice  
for a majority of looked after children,  
a significant number of children and  
young people need to live for a while  
in specialised residential services.
There is a wide range of reasons for this  
and of course many different styles of care  
that are required. These services are highly 
intensive operations with exceptional staff 
ratios and generally include on site or 
dedicated educational facilities. Consequently 
they are necessarily high cost services where 
we aim for an intensive programme of care 
and a strict timetable that delivers results  
at a fair price to commissioners. As far as 
practicable we aim to help these children 
move into a more normalised family style 
environment as soon as it is wise to do so.
Learning Services
This Government and previous ones have 
paid great attention to unemployment, 
especially among young people. Several years 
ago we saw a return to the apprenticeship 
model for re-skilling the workforce and 
driving higher vocational and educational 
standards amongst young adults.
Within the Care Sector we recognised that a 
poorly skilled workforce was getting in the way 
of top quality care so CareTech had already 
invested in a first class training division with 
award winning programmes to develop our 
care staff.
The opportunity to acquire the majority of the 
trade and assets of Elmfield Training Limited gave 
the Group our new Learning Division which has 
already made an impact in care and beyond. 
It trades as EQL Solutions Limited.
Learning Services addresses an adult social 
care workforce in England of some 1.16m 
people, 905,000 of whom work within the 
independent sector (Skills For Care 2013). We 
have less reliable numbers for the children 
services workforce but EQL solutions has 
already begun to recruit apprentices within 
CareTech’s own Children Services Division.
There are 17,300 organisations providing  
Adult Social Care in England and the majority  
of these are operating at far too low a scale to  
deliver their own training or apprenticeship 
programmes. EQL Solutions has significant 
market presence in social care and is  
well positioned to support both smaller 
companies as well as corporate providers.
In the 2012/13 academic year there  
were 510,000 apprenticeship starts. This  
is 10,000 less than the number of starts in  
the 2011/12 academic year, but 231,000 
more than in the 2009/10 academic year. 
A much higher proportion of apprenticeship 
starters are now aged over 25 (45% in 
2012/13) compared with 2009/10 (18%)  
and years previous to this. 
The majority of people starting apprenticeships 
choose frameworks in the service sectors, such 
as business administration and retail. However, 
there is a recognised need within the care 
sector that has not yet been developed. 
The majority of apprenticeship starters  
were female (55%) and there is a widespread 
commitment to address this as a failing  
within the historical approach.
The Government aims to increase the 
number of apprenticeship starts for 
younger people and has committed to 
providing an additional £40m for 20,000 
new higher apprenticeship starts in the 
current (2014/15) academic year.
A day at the seaside collecting litter!!!
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
3 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Cooking at St Agnalls.
Pioneering 
every day
4 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group at a glance Client focused innovative care pathway approach
Care and Support is characterised by optimism and a genuine 
belief in the abilities of our service users. Everyone we support 
has an opportunity to make progress in their lives and our 
professional teams work hard to help those people understand 
how to move forward. Many years ago we began to describe 
our services as a Care Pathway, making clear our intention to 
break away from the old belief that care is for life. We have 
delivered on this commitment and everyone we support from 
young children to profoundly disabled adults shares our dream 
to maximise their independence. This is great for service users, 
rewarding for our staff and strongly supported by those who 
commission and sponsor our services.
Adult Learning Disabilities
Care capacity 2014
1,450
2013: (1,423)
Mental Health
Care capacity 2014
151
2013: (161)
Foster Care 
Care capacity 2014
320
2013: (383)
Young People Residential Services
Care capacity 2014
153
2013: (149)
Learning Services
Adult Services
Social care services for adults over the age of 18
Children Services
Social care services for children and Young People up to the age of 18
Split by:
 – Residential care 
 – Independent supported living 
 – Community support services
Split by:
 – Residential care 
 – Independent supported living 
 – Community outreach
Split by:
 – Residential care of children and young people 
 – Family Assessments in the home 
Split by:
 – Residential care of children and young people 
 – Education services for children and  
young people
Split by:
 – Pre-employment programmes
 – Development programmes
 – Apprenticeships
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
5 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Musical day at the Martello Centre.
Building 
relationships 
every day
6 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Group at a glance Placing people in the care of organisations that you can trust
The business of care is predicated on relationships, as much as it is on the practical support  
and guidance that we offer on a daily basis. Troubled children need the warmth and challenging 
support of their care workers while disabled adults make best progress within the trust that a 
great relationship brings. We are also mindful that most social workers will prefer to place people 
in the care of organisations that they can rely on and we work hard to sustain those relationships 
through the difficult environment of local authority austerity.
Quality and Expertise 
Quality is not simply compliance with the requirements of regulation, though that  
remains important. The CareTech way is to employ well qualified and skilled professionals  
who can ensure that we consistently exceed the expectation of our service users, their  
families, social workers and commissioners.
Innovative Care Pathway 
CareTech was one of the first care organisations to describe its approach as a Care Pathway. We have 
delivered many practical innovations such as the transitions programme and new approaches to the 
support of people moving into their own home. Currently we are developing modern and thoughtful 
solutions to self-directed and client determination that will set the pattern for progressive social care.
Strong Brand 
There are many providers offering care and support. Many are small innovative companies while 
others are large and anonymous. In CareTech we offer a sound, reliable service with the benefits  
of scale, operating within friendly and trusted local service businesses.
National Presence 
CareTech is very well known as a care company in public ownership that operates throughout 
England, Scotland and Wales. Our national presence is reinforced through conferences and 
publications where the CareTech view is frequently sought and taken into account.
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
7 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
