 I am pleased to present our Annual Report 
and results for the year ending 30 September 
2014. Once again I can report on strong 
growth on all of our key business metrics.  
The successful pursuit of our business  
and social care strategies lead to a solid 
foundation for further development as  
we enter our 22nd year of public service.
The CareTech Group has earned an  
enviable standing as a safe, consistent  
and stable partner for local authorities and 
health commissioners as they increasingly  
outsource care services for which they  
have a legal duty. 
The Health and Social Care Information 
centre shows that overall local government 
spending remained the same as the past year 
and that the average cost of caring for adults 
has remained virtually unchanged. Spending 
on adults with learning disability has shown  
a small increase.
However, we are seeing an important 
realignment in the pattern of funding on 
social care with increased spending on those 
people with higher acuity levels, CareTech’s 
speciality, and a compensatory reduction of 
funding for people with less complex issues. 
Spending on “looked after” children shows  
a steady and consistent increase.
This pattern is in line with our expectation  
and confirms our strategic approach to remodel 
provisions to increase capacity at the more 
complex end of our client groupings.
In addition, we have seen growth in the  
drive toward more personalised service 
delivery and purchasing power being 
transferred to clients by way of Direct 
Payments. We see this as a significant 
development and one that will determine 
the pattern for longer term commissioning.  
In anticipation of this change, our 
management team has set in motion a  
very progressive shift toward the principles  
of personalisation in line with Government 
and local commissioner policies. This puts  
us in a good position to ensure continuing  
growth of our businesses and an increase  
in market share.
Dividend
The Group’s policy has been to increase the 
total dividend per year broadly in line with  
the movement in underlying diluted earnings 
per share.
That growth in 2014 was 13.1% so the Board 
has proposed a final dividend of 5.40p (2013: 
4.68p) per share bringing the total dividend  
for the year to 8.00p (2013: 7.00p) per share. 
The final dividend will be paid, subject to 
shareholder approval, on 11 May 2015, with  
an ex-dividend date of 5 March 2015 and an 
associated record date of 6 March 2015.
Our Board
On 27 September 2014 Stewart Wallace, 
Executive Director, retired from the Board and 
Care Governance and Safeguarding Committee 
on reaching the age of 65. No further changes 
have occurred to the Board, Remuneration 
Committee, Care Governance and Safeguarding 
Committee or Audit Committee.
It is intended that Stewart will continue to provide 
input to the Company on an advisory basis.
I am immensely grateful to Stewart for his  
key role in the development of the Group’s 
services over the past 14 years. 
Mike Adams, a Non-Executive Director and 
Chair of the Care Governance and Safeguarding 
Committee, has recently been awarded an 
Honorary Doctor of Education for disability 
leadership from Anglia Ruskin University.
Our People
The Group’s divisional structure has been further 
developed with the two business segments of 
Adult services and Children Services having 
underneath them the five Care Pathways.
I am extremely grateful to all of our managers 
and front-line colleagues for their exceptional 
commitment during the year. They have 
continued to deliver top quality services 
despite the pressure being placed on us  
from social services to reduce costs.
Our continuing growth, measurable success 
and forward-looking approach is a tribute  
to the hard work and dedication of staff and 
managers throughout the organisation. I am 
very grateful for the outstanding contribution 
of our support teams and administrators as 
much as the more obvious contribution of 
our front line colleagues.
Farouq Sheikh 
Chairman
8 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chairman’s Statement
A year of 
further progress I thank all of them for ensuring that we  
maintain the right balance between care  
and commercial sense.
I am very positive about the coming year  
and the opportunities it will bring. We shall  
see the consolidation of our current 
developments, new ideas coming through 
our staff and management engagement 
programmes in addition to the systematic 
growth of mainstream services that have 
served us well over the years.
Outlook and Prospects
The underlying performance of our business  
is strong and underpinned by demographic 
trends within our target markets. Improvements 
in the regulatory regime, commissioner 
attitudes and policy development favour  
growth for the best providers across the  
whole social care spectrum.
We see a particular opportunity with mental 
health where the level of historic underfunding 
is now being addressed and we are quite 
excited about the proposed merger of health 
and social care budgets which has won all the 
support of all political parties. In our view this 
will drive a better operating environment and 
enlarge the commercial opportunity for larger 
providers operating a comprehensive model  
of care.
In our view, the coming election year will give 
additional emphasis on under spending across 
the health and social care environment. There 
will be new opportunities for ambitious providers 
who are ready to work in partnership with 
commissioners to deliver creative solutions that 
will drive better value for the available resources. 
We believe that our robust infrastructure and 
strong management team are well placed to 
deliver the solutions that commissioners want.
Farouq Sheikh
Chairman
14 January 2015 
EQL staff training apprentices.
9 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
