 Overview
It gives me great pleasure to report on 
another successful year that reflects the hard 
work of our management team, the enthusiasm 
of our staff and the support of our Board.
The Group has continued to build upon its 
solid foundations and remains in a strong 
position to continue as a leading provider  
of high quality specialist social care services  
in a large and growing UK market which 
remains fragmented.
The Group has continued to develop and has 
made further encouraging progress during 
the year.
Results
Revenue of £123.3m (2013: £114.3m) for the 
year to 30 September 2014 represented growth 
of 7.9% and generated underlying EBITDA 
growth of 16.3% to £30.7m (2013: £26.4m).
Underlying operating profit increased by 17.6% to 
£27.3m (2013: £23.2m) and total operating profit 
decreased by 38% to £20.5m (2013: £32.9m)  
due to a non-recurring significant increase in 
2013 as a result of the business combination.
Underlying profit before tax for the period was 
13% higher at £19.7m (2013: £17.5m) and profit 
before tax was £12.5m (2013: £28.1m).
Consolidation and creating  
new opportunities
CareTech remains at the forefront of social 
care outsourcing and in the past year there 
has been an increase in working closely with 
commissioners and regulators as the whole 
system grapples with the changes that policy 
and financial pressure have brought.
National public policy is a significant driver  
of local authority commissioning intentions 
and behaviour. For a number of years public 
policy has encouraged greater personalisation 
of health and social care for adults. 
Commissioners and leading providers are 
driving change that will mean offering people 
more choice and control over the care, 
treatment and support they receive while  
at the same time maintaining the quality  
and safety of those services.
Our care priorities drive successful outcomes 
for our service users and follow closely the 
guidance from central government.
Our key focus for delivering quality services 
and positive outcomes is supported by the 
following key factors:
Communication 
 – We have open and frank dialogue  
with our service users, their families  
and social workers.
Independence
 – In our social care and health contracts  
we aim to help our clients to return to  
an ordinary life. It may be children who  
can return to their birth families or live 
independently. It may be adults who  
we can help on the pathway to recovery 
following a mental health breakdown  
or people with learning disability who we 
can support toward independent living.
Housing care and support 
 – We know that most people aspire to have  
a place of their own, employment and 
ongoing support. We have structured our 
services, developing new provision and 
creative partnerships with housing providers 
to enable these aspirations to be achieved 
whenever possible.
Self-directed support 
 – It is pivotal to government policy that adults 
and children receiving social care are fully 
engaged in the support that they require. 
With some adults this extends to the 
provision of a cash sum enabling them to 
purchase their care and support directly. 
CareTech managers have been reviewing 
our systems and delivering training 
throughout the organisation to ensure  
that we are fit to deliver the requirements  
of self-directed support.
Quality and dignity
 – CareTech has always delivered high quality 
care in exceptional premises. However,  
we have never been complacent about  
this and have undertaken many reviews to 
ensure that we deliver the right quality at  
an acceptable price. We have also learned  
a great deal from the experience of our 
NHS colleagues and developed a Dignity 
Test to ensure that our front line and 
administrative staff treat all our clients  
in ways that promote dignity.
Haroon Sheikh 
Chief Executive Officer
18 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
A strong foundation  
for growth
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review Progress in the year
The year has seen continued progress as  
the Group concentrates on the introduction  
of innovative new services developed in 
partnership with local authority commissioners 
from within our existing portfolio of properties 
or through new properties either purchased  
or rented for service users.
There have been a small number of property 
disposals during the year where the service 
was not meeting commissioner aspirations 
and a reconfiguration was not possible or 
economically viable.
The Group has developed the site in Dudley 
for the Children Services and the first service 
has recently opened. The second service is 
being developed on the same site and 
planning permission has been granted for the 
conversion of an existing building into a seven 
bedroom service for children with learning 
disabilities and a six bedroom children’s 
wheelchair accessible bungalow.
Our Children Services have had significant 
growth in Scotland and there have been new 
services opened in Dumfries, Galloway and Fife. 
In addition a new education facility is being 
opened near Dumfries to support these children. 
In North Wales the Group has developed  
an Adult Learning Disability Service which  
is completed and awaiting registration.
The Group also continues to realise the benefit 
of organisational improvements that were put 
in place over the past few years. We have 
continued to strengthen the management 
structure and improve the efficiency of our 
processes following further investment in new 
systems which will continue through the next 
financial year. We are seeing the benefits of 
new executive appointments and the Clinical 
Director role is having a positive impact across 
the services.
These improvements have put us in a strong 
position to benefit from a number of the 
commissioning opportunities by working in 
partnership with the NHS and Local Authorities.
During the year we introduced a new care 
system for Foster Care which has recently  
gone live and we also have a new Time and 
Attendance system which is being implemented 
across all of the residential services in the 
coming months which will further our policy  
of back office centralisation.
Care Pathway Range and Services
The Group’s focus remains the provision of 
specialist social care. This is underpinned by a 
well-defined range of provisions which meet 
all of the commissioners’ requirements. These 
services are now even more extensive and 
focused on providing high quality care and 
positive outcomes for all of our service users.
The Group continued to develop and grow  
its existing four operating divisions, which 
come under the two outcome-based sectors 
of Adult Services and Children Services.  
We continue to extend both our geographic 
coverage and our outcome-based Care 
Pathway range of services organically and 
through the purchase and sale of properties 
to meet the needs of our marketplace, 
specifically the requirement for greater acuity 
service provision. This ensures that CareTech 
is in a very strong position to address the 
demands of our evolving marketplace.
Following the acquisition of our new Learning 
Services division, I am particularly delighted  
to report on the integration and development 
of our apprenticeship model. The team  
has already completed pioneering work  
by developing the apprenticeship model in  
social care, with massive growth potential,  
but has also won a prestigious tender with  
the Department of Work and Pensions to 
develop a new model of mental health 
rehabilitation using the skills derived  
from working with apprentices.
We remain committed to the growth of 
residential care solutions for adults and children 
with the most complex needs and the CareTech 
Group has embraced the development of 
home-based solutions including foster care 
where demand for more specialist services 
remain strong. Our residential care services for 
children cater for young people with particularly 
difficult issues and offer a national service; with 
strong growth seen in Scotland. Our adult 
services offer a solid and reliable provision 
across the whole spectrum of service offerings 
and we see a particular volume demand in the 
area of supported living, balanced by renewed 
demand for more specialised residential  
care solutions.
Opening of Coppice Lodge,  
Dudley by Ben Mould  
ably assisted by Haroon Sheikh (CEO),  
Dr Linda Cropper (Commissioning 
Engagement Manager, Dudley CCG)  
and Councillor Bryan Cotterill.
19 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Our strategy is to offer a bespoke range  
of options so that we can maintain the  
Care Pathways that distinguish us from  
other providers.
Overview of progress
Our focus during the past year has continued 
to be on building on the acquisitions which 
established the Care Pathways whilst 
introducing innovative new solutions to meet 
the challenges faced by care commissioners. 
Capacity has reduced to 2,074 places 
principally because we have continued to 
reconfigure services. Occupancy levels within 
our mature services remain at a creditable 92%, 
or 86% when taking into account our services 
under development and transition which is a 
2% improvement on the previous year.
Much has been written about personalisation 
and I felt it would be useful to set out our  
own understanding and commitment  
to personalisation.
Personalisation means “recognising people  
as individuals who have strengths and 
preferences and putting them at the  
centre of their own care and support”  
(Social Care Institute of Excellence).
The traditional service-led approach has  
often meant that people have not been able 
to shape the kind of support they need, or 
receive the right kind of help. Personalised 
approaches such as self-directed support  
and personal budgets involve enabling  
people to identify their own needs and  
make choices about how and when they  
are supported to live their lives. 
Our two business segments of Adult  
Services and Children Services comprise  
the following five care pathways.
1. Adult Learning Disabilities
Revenue £74.2m (2013: £73.9m)
EBITDA £22.6m (2013: £18.5m)
Capacity 1,450 (2013: 1,423)
Adult Learning Disabilities provides individually 
tailor-made solutions for people living in their 
own homes, residential care or independent 
supported living schemes. We can work with 
clients to deliver self-directed support packages.
For some people residential care will continue 
as the preferred option and we increasingly 
offer several types of supported living and 
packages of individualised self-directed 
support to people in their own homes.
This includes adult residential care homes, 
independent supported living and community 
support services.
The principal reason for the increase in 
EBITDA of £4.1m was the rent saving arising 
from the business combination in 2013, the 
reconfiguration of homes and their reopening 
late in the year.
We have continued to work closely with 
commissioners and this has helped us to 
achieve our growth through the past year. 
We take a long-term view, recognising  
that change will continue and with this in 
mind I am pleased to report that the closure 
and redevelopment of some of our long stay 
residential provision has been a great  
success over the past year and will continue  
to meet the changing requirements of 
commissioners and families.
The market for high acuity care and the 
support of people with learning disability is 
growing year on year. Demand for low-level 
support has been impacted by the cuts in 
local authority expenditure but this is not an 
area of activity in which CareTech operates.
Conversely, resources for those with the 
highest level of need is being maintained  
and increased in some local authorities.
During the past year we have developed  
63 beds through reconfiguration of existing 
residential services. Further new provision  
is under development.
2. Mental Health
Revenue £7.3m (2013: £6.5m)
EBITDA £2.5m (2013: £2.2m)
Capacity 151 (2013: 161)
Mental Health works in partnership with  
the NHS to ensure a successful transition  
out of acute care, delivering pathways to 
independence. We have an outstanding track 
record for helping people away from acute 
care and supporting them in their own homes.
The adult services for this Care Pathway 
include a community-based hospital,  
adult residential care homes, independent 
supported living and community outreach.
“ Foster Care is on a rising 
trend in terms of both 
numbers placed in foster 
care and expenditure by 
local authorities.”
Laing and Buisson, 
2013
20 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review
continued These services also had a reconfiguration  
of homes and a reopening early in the year.
Community Mental Health has always been  
a critical but relatively neglected area of  
social care. However, this is changing as  
the NHS drives to lower bed capacity and 
accelerated early discharge from acute 
psychiatric hospital care. 
The growth of social care is certain but so  
is the immediate response by Government  
to one of the scandals of our age. There  
has been no progress in the removal of large 
numbers of learning disabled people from  
the controversial “Treatment and Assessment 
Centres” operating at various locations 
throughout the UK. CareTech has never 
operated any centres of this type but we 
understand that the CEO of NHS England has 
been tasked with ensuring that these centres 
are re-provided as a matter of urgency. 
CareTech is seeking opportunities to support 
the project and to offer a comprehensive 
solution within its community homes.
We are well positioned for further expansion 
in Mental Health and have a sustainable 
infrastructure to deliver growth. It was very 
pleasing that our management team in 
Lyndhurst, a residential home, were awarded 
the Care Team of the Year award against stiff 
competition at the prestigious National Care 
Awards ceremony this year.
3. Foster Care
Revenue £12.0m (2013: £14.3m)
EBITDA £3.0m (2013: £4.3m)
Capacity 320 (2013: 383)
Foster Care provide for both mainstream  
and specialist foster care in small supportive 
groups across England and Wales for children 
with disabilities. We also provide foster care 
family assessments in the home.
This trend is driven by cost considerations, 
where fostering is considerably less expensive 
than residential care and by perceived quality 
factors. It is generally held that fostering in an 
ordinary family home delivers better quality 
than any residential setting. However, the rising 
tide of fostering has been constrained by the 
challenge of finding foster carers with the right 
skill and motivation alongside preference by 
social workers to place within local authority 
services rather than the independent sector.
In 2013, 46% of children placed in foster homes 
were outsourced to the independent sector. 
This compares with 67% placed in residential 
homes operated by independent providers.
Our Foster Care teams and Young People 
Residential teams are working alongside  
each other to offer the best outcomes for 
Young People.
Our market intelligence suggest that most, if 
not all,independent sector fostering agencies 
are experiencing some degree of “hold back” 
at present. However, the consensus view is that 
this will not last long and local authorities will 
inevitably return to progressive outsourcing  
of foster care provision.
Outsourcing is well established in the culture 
of most local authorities, but the current 
austerity measures have led a small number of 
authorities to reflect on the 50% fee premium 
paid for independent fostering. This disparity  
of cost can be attributed in part to the fact  
that the most complex and therefore most 
expensive children are placed in the care of 
independent providers. However, it is also  
clear that local authorities fail to undertake  
a full cost analysis of their in-house provision. 
Wherever this has been done, outsourcing is 
demonstrably much better value.
Demand for foster care has increased overall 
but we have noted an increasing trend among 
some local authorities to make provision 
in-house for all but the most complex  
children. In our view this is an expensive and 
unsustainable approach that exposes local 
authority commissioners to risk. Our own 
services are being maintained at an acceptable 
level. Looking forward we are training our 
foster carers with the skills required to manage 
more complex work and have linked the 
fostering division with our residential team  
for children so that we can maintain an 
effective care pathway.
4. Young People Residential Services
Revenue £21.9m (2013: £19.6m)
EBITDA £7.4m (2013: £6.2m)
Capacity 153 (2013: 149)
A number of children and young people need 
to live in specialised residential services and 
receive education. As far as practicable we  
aim to help these children move into a more 
normalised family style environment.
This segment contains children residential care 
homes, which includes facilities for children with 
learning difficulties and emotional behavioural 
disorders (“EBD”), and small specialist schools.
In the year this segment benefited from new 
services and will benefit from the Dudley site 
in the next financial year.
Children residential services have been growing 
as our reputation for quality care and support 
spreads. We are currently developing new beds 
and places that have been commissioned 
during the past year. I would like to express 
particular praise for the team in Scotland  
who have established a good presence  
in a relatively short time.
5. Learning Services
Revenue £7.9m
EBITDA £0.1m
In November 2013, CareTech acquired a 
Learning Services business now operating as 
EQL Solutions, a national provider specialising  
in employment and training services to young 
people and adults. The business was acquired 
out of the administration of Elmfield Training 
with the knowledge that it required turnaround, 
which has been the management focus  
during the year. The necessary investment  
and re-structuring will be completed shortly.
Its intensive pre-employment, development  
and apprenticeship programmes use public 
funds from the Skills Funding Agency to lay  
the foundations for individuals to achieve  
their career goals while helping to provide 
businesses with the vital skills they need in  
their workforce.
As well as supporting the workforce, EQL 
Solutions is also developing programmes for 
service users by enhancing the pathways to 
independent living and employment. Young 
People leaving care, for example, often don’t 
know where to find the right job opportunities 
or have the opportunity to access employer-
focused training. We can now bridge that gap 
by supporting young people as they make the 
transition to adult life. We are also exploring 
how best to help individuals return to 
employment after mental illness and to give 
people with learning disabilities the skills and 
confidence to gain employment so that they 
are able to live more independently.
EQL training staff at a BHS store.
21 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements Early mapping with CareTech’s core business 
around the year end has gone well. Good 
progress has been made in identifying the 
potential for EQL Solutions to add value to 
CareTech’s attraction and recruitment of staff 
and their retention, helping new employees 
gain the skills and qualifications to grow  
a successful career in care through  
an Apprenticeship.
An Apprenticeship is a work-based learning 
programme designed around the needs  
of employers, which leads to nationally 
recognised qualifications. It is available to 
anyone aged 16 and above and is made  
up of a practical competency component, 
on-the-job training and off-the-job learning.  
As well as Apprenticeships being a practical, 
cost-effective way to recruit and train new 
social care employees, many employers 
consider the framework to be a useful 
learning and development route for  
their current employees, across all  
ages and experiences.
For some time the Group has felt that the 
ability to offer pre-employment training to 
potential recruits, alongside Apprenticeships 
and other development solutions for existing 
employees, would enhance and support 
many aspects of CareTech’s outcome-based 
approach. We are delighted that the learning 
and development specialists in EQL Solutions 
are now working with all of the care divisions 
to continuously improve the standards of care 
and delivery across all our services. We look 
forward to collaborating with our partners to 
spread best practice and innovative training 
across the wider industry.
Our task during this year has been to  
integrate the new company, EQL Solutions 
and to establish a sound business base for 
growth and develop new products in line  
with discussions held with the Skills Funding 
Agency. I am pleased to confirm that we  
have made progress with EQL Solutions and 
the team are strongly motivated to develop  
their initiatives in the world of social care 
through Aspire. 
Aspire has been developed by EQL Solutions 
as a unique and innovative scheme that will 
ensure all CareTech’s support workers receive 
mandatory and statutory training to the  
highest standard whilst also being offered  
the opportunity to complete a Level 2 or  
Level 3 Apprenticeship which has been 
carefully tailored to suit their role.
CareTech apprentices have now begun their 
training with a significant number waiting to  
join the programme over the next 12 months. 
From November 2014, all newly hired support 
workers will also be offered an Apprenticeship 
as part of their induction to CareTech. The 
Aspire programme aims to empower every 
colleague to display the behaviours needed to 
deliver the high quality, personalised care and 
to ensure there is a Development Pathway 
available to all. 
Corporate Social Responsibility 
We have continued to strive for long-lasting 
improvements in our services in a way that is 
consistent with the interests and concerns of 
our stakeholder community. As always, the 
driving force underpinning CareTech’s whole 
operation continues to be the provision of the 
highest quality of care to our service users.
We care about our service users
Service users are the reason for our existence 
and satisfying their needs remains our  
key objective.
As our organisation grows, we strive to maintain 
a culture which never forgets the important 
relationship we have with our service users.  
We seek to nurture these relationships and see 
them as partnerships of mutual interest and 
respect, with our person-centred approach 
ensuring service user interests are safeguarded 
and vulnerabilities minimised.
The further expansion of our Care Pathway 
strategy seeks to provide our service users 
with “whole of life” solutions to their needs, 
maximising independence where possible by 
encouraging education, promoting choice, 
being proactive with family relations, 
providing employment where feasible and 
nurturing personal ambition where helpful.
We are determined to preserve the dignity  
of those we care for and fully support 
Government initiatives to this end. We see 
making each day as fulfilled as possible for 
our service users as a vital ingredient to  
their, and our, success.
We care about the environment
We seek to maximise environmental 
standards in all areas of our organisation. 
Energy costs are now closely monitored 
centrally and with the installation of smart 
meters being rolled out across our services 
we are seeking to encourage more  
efficient consumption of energy, without 
compromising service user care.
Clinical waste management has an 
environmental impact and we are focused  
on ways to make this more effective whilst 
still adhering to statutory requirements.
We aim for minimal waste production  
and waste-free processes. Encouraging the 
involvement of our workforce in seeking new 
ways to “be green” is important and we are 
striving to reduce our carbon footprint in  
all commercial areas including promoting 
recycling initiatives, developing a carbon  
offset scheme for paper usage, using public 
transport where feasible and improving  
energy efficiency.
We care about our staff
We remain committed to ensuring employees 
share in the success of the Group and  
fully appreciate that Group performance  
is affected by the relationship we have  
with them.
Sustaining the retention and development  
of employees is also critical to our continued 
success and we remain of the belief that 
fostering a positive workplace culture is  
the best way for our employees to thrive. 
Supporting them with regular supervision, 
training and clear career development 
programmes promotes staff continuity and 
leads to improved standards of care quality.
Out of a total of 3,531 staff 70% are female 
and equal opportunity for all remains at the 
heart of our recruitment policies and the 
diversity of our workforce bears this out.  
We value our staff at all levels and work 
closely with them through our robust human 
resources department to foster consultation 
in all matters, ensure fair pay for all, maximise 
conditions of service and facilitate flexible 
working where feasible.
We have a team of in-house training staff 
delivering courses on all relevant subjects, 
enabling our workforce to gain the skills, 
knowledge and confidence to provide the 
care and support to our service users on  
a daily basis.
Our sharesave share option scheme 
continues to offer new invitations regularly 
and is available to all our employees.  
This participation, along with regular  
senior management share option awards, 
contributes to the fulfilment of our desire to 
reward staff for loyalty, diligence and effort.
22 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Chief Executive’s Statement 
and Performance Review
continued We care about quality and safety
As a Group, our aim is to provide a safe 
working environment for service users,  
staff and visitors. We value the well-being  
of all stakeholders and develop policies  
to this end.
Maintaining workplace infrastructures is a 
core objective and sustained investment in 
Information Technology, furniture, facilities 
and equipment enable working environments, 
be they operational or administrative, to be 
safe and productive.
Regulation is vigorously applied with routine 
and regular inspections being made by the 
Care Quality Commission (“CQC”) and  
Ofsted in England and the services are 
regulated by the Care and Social Services 
Inspectorate Wales (CSSIW) in Wales and  
by the Care Inspectorate for Scotland.
We continue to resource our own highly 
experienced internal quality and compliance 
teams which undertake a programme of 
regular inspection and assessment and give 
constructive feedback backed by training  
and supervision if the requirement is there. 
We engage the services of outsourced  
expert advisers ensuring best practice  
and procedures are maintained.
We care about our communities
Doing business the right way is of 
fundamental importance to us. A successful 
business needs to operate in healthy,  
thriving communities and needs to  
be seen as a good neighbour to  
those communities.
We have direct involvement in a variety  
of community-based programmes further 
improving our service reputation and helping 
to foster a strengthened relationship with 
local authorities.
Being a socially responsible organisation with  
a focus on developing our ethical standards 
aligned with our economic objectives remains 
a core aim and we strive to identify the real 
value of our organisation, beyond its bottom 
line. Considering non-financial values such  
as reputation, employee commitment and 
service user fulfilment helps us see longer-
term opportunities and risks, ultimately  
saving money and time.
Behaving responsibly and maximising the 
benefits of a strong relationship with our 
stakeholders is an integral part of a continuing 
process of building long-term value.
Outlook
The coming year shows every sign of being 
good for health and social care providers  
and especially for those with an established 
reputation for quality and innovation. It is of 
course an election year and the major parties 
have already begun to pinpoint both health 
and social care for investment.
There is significant policy development in  
the pipeline and we see some indicators that 
local authorities have recognised the need to 
maintain, or grow their social care budgets.
In our view we are in a period in which 
consolidation will again feature strongly 
within the corporate sector and we are  
alert to quality opportunities that may arise. 
However, we are mindful about acquisition 
and have robust criteria which must be 
satisfied to ensure that any acquired company 
fits our strategic development objectives.
This has been another progressive year for 
CareTech and I am indebted to the strong 
management team who have managed  
the services in what has been a challenging 
environment for the Care Sector.
CareTech provides high quality care, support 
and outcomes to our service users. I remain  
proud to lead the Company, delivering a 
quality of care that makes such a difference  
to so many lives.
Haroon Sheikh
Chief Executive Officer
14 January 2015
Lyndhurst Staff Team –  
National Team of the  
Year 2014 Award
The staff of Lyndhurst  
collecting their award at the  
Greater London Care Awards.
23 CareTech Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Review Governance Financial Statements
