 Chief Executive’ s Review
Chief Executive, John McDonough
The provision of student accommodation
and other facilities at the University of
Hertfordshire is a Carillion PPP project.
Our well balanced market and 
geographical positions enable us to 
target growth areas, particularly transport,
health and defence in the UK and our
International Regional businesses where
there are increasing opportunities to export
our PPP and Business Services skills. These
four strategic growth areas are described 
in more detail later in this report.
Strategic overview
The key elements of our strategy remain
unchanged, namely to grow our Business
Services and PPP Investment activities,
organically and by acquisition, alongside 
a well positioned Construction Services
business focused selectively on higher added
value contracts for long-term customers.
We have again delivered profitable growth
in Business Services and PPP Investments,
which generated over two thirds of the
Group’s pre-tax profit. By targeting growth
markets in which we can use the strong
positions we hold to promote our full 
range of services, we secured a number of
significant new orders in 2002. We have
also benefited from our maturing PPP
portfolio and the acquisition of the
remaining 51 per cent of GT Railway
Maintenance in September 2001, which
enabled us to integrate all our rail activities
into one business, Carillion Rail, launched 
in March 2002. 
The acquisition of Citex Management
Services in August 2002 brought to the
Group a portfolio of contracts with blue
chip corporate customers and a successful
management team that complements our
existing facilities management business,
which has an extensive portfolio of public
sector contracts. 
In line with our more selective approach 
in Construction Services, we disposed of
three more non-core business – the hoists,
accommodation and general plant
businesses of our joint venture company
Maxxiom, London Paving, which carried
out minor civil engineering projects, and
Neslo, an office fit-out and partitioning
company. We continue to target higher
added value contracts for long-term
customers: over 80 per cent of our UK
turnover in building and infrastructure
projects comes from 20 key customers.
Financial Performance
The operational and strategic progress we
made in 2002 is reflected in our strong
financial performance. Profit before tax,
goodwill and exceptional items increased
by 11 per cent to £50.2 million, on
turnover some 4 per cent higher at £1.97
billion. Earnings per share before goodwill
In 2002, we built upon our success in 2001
by continuing to implement our strategy 
for growth, supported by our Business
Improvement Programme, which is
continuously improving the efficiency and
quality of service delivery to our customers.
06
Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2002 and exceptional items increased by 19 per
cent to 16.6 pence. Our underlying tax rate
reduced to 29 per cent before exceptional
items (2001: 30 per cent) as we began to
access available tax losses. Earnings per
share after goodwill and exceptional items
increased by 26% to 13.2 pence. 
Net cash at the year-end was £5.3 million,
which reflects a net cash outflow in the
year of some £46 million. This was largely
due to the unwinding of positive cash flow
on several major construction contracts,
including a number of large PPP projects,
which reached or were nearing completion
during the year. Despite this cash outflow
and net investments of £72 million over 
the past eighteen months in acquisitions,
plant and equipment, Group net interest
remained positive for a second year, as a
result of our continuing focus on cash
management. 
The development of our PPP portfolio
continues to deliver long-term, high 
quality cash-backed earnings growth. 
Our total committed equity investment in
our 16 financially closed projects, increased
from £45 million to £48 million during
2002. In the light of recent transactions
involving the sale of project equity, the
Directors believe that Carillion’s equity
investments in PPP projects have a present
value in the region of £115 million. The 
net cost of bidding for PPP projects in 2002
was £15.8 million (2001: £13.9 million) 
and we have continued to work with
Government and other leaders in our
industry to reduce these costs. 
The good progress we have made with 
our Business Improvement Programme
delivered £2 million of savings in 2002, as
previously indicated. As a result of actions
already taken we will deliver the £5 million
of savings targeted for 2003. In addition,
we have identified a further £3 million of
cost savings in 2003.
Pensions
At December 2002, the various defined
benefit schemes operated by Carillion had
assets of £704 million (2001: £881 million),
with a net deficit of £51 million 
(2001: £59 million surplus), calculated 
on an FRS 17 basis. The Group
recommenced pension scheme
contributions in December 2002, the 
full year cash effect of which is expected 
to be around £15 million in 2003. A full
valuation of all the Group’s pension
schemes will be available in 2003. 
As part of a continuing review of the
various options for ensuring that the 
Group can continue to offer all our
employees good quality pension schemes,
we have decided to close two of our
defined benefit schemes to new 
employees from 1 April 2003 and to 
offer instead membership of competitive
defined contribution schemes that rank 
in the upper quartile of such schemes 
in the UK.
Health and safety
Achieving the highest standards of health
and safety is a key priority of the Board and
the whole of the Group’s management
team. Although our health and safety
record is amongst the best in the industry
sectors in which we work, we continually
strive to improve our own performance,
measured against key performance
indicators, and work with our partners,
suppliers and other stakeholders to help
improve the performance of our industry
as a whole. 
The Board sets our safety policies and
targets and the Group’s Safety 
Committee, through our Integrated
Management System, manages
implementation and delivery. In 2002, 
we also embarked upon a number of
innovative behavioural safety programmes
to complement our policies and
procedures. These programmes are 
aimed at embedding health and safety 
into our culture so that all our people fully
appreciate the importance and absolute
priority that must be given to this key area. 
Sustainability
We continue to take the lead in our sector
on sustainability, because we believe it
creates clear benefits for Carillion, our
customers, our partners, our suppliers 
and our stakeholder communities. In 
2002, we further developed our ability to
offer sustainable solutions that not only
incorporate best environmental and social
practice, but also reduce whole life costs
and improve value for money for our
customers. We have done this by using 
the model we published in our 2001
Sustainability Report that links our
sustainability targets to our strategic
business and financial objectives, supported
by analysis of the costs and benefits of
sustainable solutions. PPP projects provide 
a major opportunity to demonstrate the
business case for sustainability. For example,
at the Great Western Hospital, Swindon,
our latest PPP hospital, which received 
top marks from the Building Research
Establishment as one of the UK’s most
sustainable buildings, we identified 
tangible and quantifiable savings of 
£1.8 million as a result of adopting a
sustainable approach to its design,
construction, maintenance and operation. 
Carilllion was the leading company in 
its sector and was ranked in the top 
quintile of 122 UK companies surveyed 
in Business in the Community’s first
Corporate Responsibility Index, published 
in March 2003.
Outlook
We entered 2003 with a strong order 
book and long term framework contracts
together worth around £5.0 billion, of
which 75 percent is for 2004 and beyond
and 60 per cent is for 2005 and beyond.
We also have a large pipeline of potential
contracts, which we believe we are well
positioned to secure in 2003. In the first
two months of the year we have already
secured contracts and preferred bidder
positions for over £350 million of
commercial building work and £350 million
of road maintenance and construction. 
Despite the global uncertainty, the overall
outlook in all our main markets, both in the
UK and our International Regions, remains
positive with opportunities for further
growth. In the UK, three sectors – health,
transport and defence – in particular offer
good prospects for growth, with confirmed
Government investment in these sectors 
of some £75 billion over the next 10 years.
In order to take full advantage of the
opportunities arising from this investment,
we have created new Health and Defence
business units alongside our existing
Transport infrastructure businesses. 
Our fourth key growth opportunity lies in
exporting our PPP Investment and Business
Services skills to our International Regions,
where we have well-established businesses.
In Canada, for example, where we 
have developed a substantial highway
maintenance business and been shortlisted
for two large PPP hospitals in 2002, we
expect increasing opportunities. In the
Middle East and Caribbean we signed joint
venture agreements in 2002 to provide
extensive facilities management services 
to long-term key customers, worth up to
£500 million over 10 years. 
We therefore expect to make further
progress in our growth areas in 2003 as a
result of our well balanced geographical
and market positions and our focus on
working with long term key customers.
John McDonough
Chief Executive
12 March 2003
Carillion plc
07
Annual Report & Accounts 2002
