 04 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
The basis for our success is our strategy for sustainable 
long-term growth, supported by our ongoing drive for cost
reduction and performance improvement. This not only enabled
us to deliver profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional items 
of £50.8 million, backed by strong cash generation, but also
positions the Group for further growth in 2004 and beyond,
despite Network Rail’s decision to take all rail maintenance
contracts in-house. 
Strong cash management resulted in a substantial second half
cash inflow of almost £100 million and net cash at the year-end
of £75.8 million. 
Nottingham Express Transit (NET) 
We have completed the infrastructure contract for NET and the
tram system is now fully operational and open to the public. Returns
on our £3.4 million (12.5 per cent) equity interest in this project
are expected to be in line with our original investment model.
A sustainable new profit stream from PPP equity sales 
In addition to ordinary profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional
items of £50.8 million, we made an exceptional tax-free net
profit of £11.2 million on the sale of our £4.1 million equity
interest in the Darent Valley Hospital PPP project. The proceeds
from this sale supported the Directors’ previous valuation of the
Group’s total PPP equity portfolio of approximately £115 million.
We plan to continue selling our PPP equity stakes in mature
projects and the Board’s current intention is to continue to 
return a proportion of the profits to shareholders, whilst 
re-investing in new PPP projects to generate further returns. 
Further investment of between £20 million and £30 million is
already planned in seven new projects, which have recently
reached financial close or for which we are the preferred bidder.
Re-cycling our PPP equity stakes in this way will create a new
sustainable profit stream for the Group, which we expect to 
be tax-free in 2004 and 2005, given the Group has substantial
capital tax losses and can claim tax relief by way of substantial
shareholder exemption on certain projects.
Rail maintenance
Network Rail’s announcement in October 2003 that all rail
maintenance contracts are to be taken in-house by September
2004 came as a complete surprise to the industry, given earlier
public assurances from Network Rail that it would not do 
this. As previously announced, we estimate that the loss of 
rail maintenance contracts will reduce our operating profit by
around £7 million in 2004 and by £15 million in 2005. However,
the precise effects will depend on the timing and terms under
which contracts are transferred to Network Rail, which remain
subject to negotiations with Network Rail.
Chief Executive’s Review
A number of significant achievements 
and events influenced our performance 
in 2003 and shaped the outlook for the
Group going forward.
John McDonough
Chief Executive 05 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Cost reduction and performance improvement
The pursuit of cost reduction and performance improvement is
fundamental to the long-term success of our business. In 2003,
unavoidable increases in pensions and insurance costs of 
£18 million were covered by cost reduction. Our drive to do
things ‘smarter, better, faster’ will play a major part in helping 
us to achieve our target of improving the Group’s operating
margin by one per cent over the next three years. 
Health and Safety
In 2003, the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate reduced by 
24 per cent to its lowest ever level of 0.34 (accidents reportable
under the ‘Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations’ per 100,000 hours), which we expect
to rank with the best in our industry. However, as the Chairman
has commented in his statement, this has been overshadowed 
by the deep sense of shock and sadness felt by all our people
following the tragic rail accident on the West Coast Main 
Line in February 2004. A summary of our Health and Safety,
performance and programme for continuous improvement can
be found on pages 14 to 17 of this report. As usual, we shall
report in more detail in our 2003 Sustainability Report, which 
will be published in April.
Sustainability
Creating a more sustainable business through understanding,
measuring and improving the impacts we have on society 
and the environment, is not only an important part of risk
management, but a differentiator that is helping us to deliver 
our business objectives and our strategy for growth. A summary
of our programme for sustainable development and our
performance in 2003 can be found on pages 14 to 17 of 
this report. More detailed information will be published in 
our 2003 Sustainability Report in April.
Order book
In 2003, we continued to win work in all our key markets 
and maintained our year-end order book at £5 billion. The
composition of our order book continues to reflect our strategy,
with 70 per cent of the £5 billion now in our growth markets 
of Services and PPP Investments and 70 per cent for 2005 and
beyond. In addition, our pipeline of probable new orders is at 
its highest ever level at around £2.5 billion. 
Restructured for growth 
In 2003, we completed our current restructuring programme 
to improve operational efficiency and accelerate the delivery of
our growth strategy. We have created three major new business
groups – Health, Transport and Business Services – aligned with
our growth markets. Each is driven by the needs of its customers
and capable of delivering fully integrated solutions, from project
finance through design and construction to lifetime maintenance
and facilities management. These three new businesses together
with our Private Finance, Crown House, Building Developments
and International Regional businesses are supported by common
shared services and a lean head office function. 
The acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems in June 2003 for 
£2.9 million has enhanced prospects for growth in our Transport
business and the disposal of four more non-core businesses –
Expanded Piling, Markfield Insurance and two materials testing
facilities in the Middle East, for a total of £7.0 million – will help
us focus senior management time and resources on our growth
market sectors. 
1
2
1 We are creating some of the most
exciting and effective spaces in the
world. At the Great Western Hospital 
in Swindon, we have integrated our
skills including project finance, design,
construction, maintenance and life-time
asset management to produce a state-
of-the-art hospital that is also one of
the UK’s most sustainable buildings.
2 Carillion seeks to build relationships
with the communities in which it
operates. We do this through working
with national and local environmental
and community organisations. Pictured
here are pupils from the Prince Albert
School in Birmingham on a work
experience visit. 06 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
Chief Executive’s Review
continued
Markets and outlook
Transport 
In transport we are focused on the heavy rail and roads markets.
Capital investment in the UK’s heavy rail network is forecast to
grow by between 5 per cent and 10 per cent per annum over
the next three years. The outlook for enhancement projects and
track renewals therefore remains positive. In particular, further
investment in West Coast Route Modernisation, which is
expected to be at least £5 billion, and being selected as a
framework contractor by Network Rail for its new £2.5 billion
track renewal programme, will continue to create significant
opportunities for our rail business. 
We will continue to have a strong presence in UK rail maintenance,
because our contract to maintain the Channel Tunnel Rail Link,
worth up to £120 million over 10 years, is unaffected by
Network Rail’s recent decision on maintenance. Following the
acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems, we expect significant
opportunities for growth in Scandinavia. For example, the
Swedish rail authorities plan to outsource an additional 
£500 million per annum of infrastructure work by 2008. 
The outlook for road construction and maintenance is continuing
growth. In construction, we are targeting the £11 billion
programme of projects being procured under the Government’s
Early Contractor Involvement and PPP initiatives and were
awarded two major projects worth nearly £200 million in 
2003. In maintenance, we are seeking to increase our 11 per
cent share of the £800 million a year Highways Agency market,
by expanding the range of services we provide. We also continue
to target large maintenance contracts for Local Highway
Authorities, a market worth around £800 million a year and
growing at 5 per cent per annum. Our success in winning a
major contract for Surrey County Council in 2003 has been
followed by a similar contract for Warwickshire County Council,
early in 2004, together worth over £240 million. 
Health
The UK health market is set to grow rapidly as a result of the
Government’s commitment to increase annual spending on
health by some £40 billion to £105 billion by 2008. Within 
this market we are targeting five specific sectors – PPP hospitals,
Independent Sector Treatment Centres (ISTC), Local Improvement
Finance Trust (LIFT) projects, ProCure 21 and non-PPP facilities
management. 
PPP hospitals will continue to be one of our most important
growth sectors, with over 20 further concessions for major
hospitals, worth around £15 billion, due to be let as early as
2005. We are a market leader in this sector and expect to build
on the progress we made in 2003, which included reaching
financial close on our sixth UK hospital and becoming the
Our Transport business is one of the UK’s leading providers 
of road and rail infrastructure services.
Carillion was the most successful contractor in the UK roads
sector in 2003, winning long-term maintenance contracts for 
the Highways Agency and Surrey County Council with a
combined value of nearly £400m and a £65m Early Contractor
Involvement contract for the Highways Agency to upgrade 
the A74 to motorway standard in Cumbria. This success has
continued in 2004 with the award of a maintenance contract 
for Warwickshire County Council and financial close on the 
A249 PPP project, together worth over £240m.
Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets
Transport
Our Health business is one of the UK’s leading providers of
integrated infrastructure and services solutions and is focused 
on five market sectors – PPP hospitals, ProCure 21, Independent
Sector Treatment Centres (ITSC), Local Improvement Finance 
Trust (LIFT) projects and non-PPP facilities management
In 2003, we reached financial close on our sixth UK PPP hospital
and became preferred bidder for a further UK hospital and for
Canada’s first two PPP hospitals – four hospitals together worth
around £2.3bn. We also reached financial close on our first ISTC,
became preferred bidder for our first LIFT project and were
selected as a framework contractor for ProCure 21.
Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets
Health 07 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
preferred bidder for a further UK hospital and for Canada’s first
two PPP hospitals. These four hospitals are together worth
around £2.3 billion.
With planned new investment of some £12 billion in ISTCs, LIFT
and ProCure 21 projects between 2004 and 2008, we shall be
seeking to build on the presence we have established in these
sectors. In 2003, we reached financial close on our first ISTC,
became preferred bidder for our first LIFT project, were selected
by the NHS as one of its principal partners for ProCure 21 and
were awarded our first ProCure 21 contract. Non-PPP facilities
management continues to be an important growth sector for us.
With annual NHS expenditure of around £1 billion in this sector,
we will be seeking to add to the four long-term contracts we
already hold, worth around £42 million per annum. 
Business Services
Our Business Services business is focused on two UK markets –
private sector facilities management and commercial building. 
In commercial building, we continue to target the offices, retail
and urban high-rise residential sectors. The downturn in the
South East, particularly in office developments, continues to 
be offset by buoyant markets in the Midlands and North.
Consequently, the order book is healthy and we expect growth 
in our commercial building activities in 2004. 
In facilities management we are targeting a market worth around
£5.5 billion a year and growing at 5 per cent per annum. The
acquisition of Citex Management Services in 2002 considerably
strengthened our presence and capability in this market. We
therefore expect to build on the success we had in 2003 in
winning a £90 million contract for Telewest Broadband and 
grow this area of our business in 2004. 
Crown House, our mechanical and electrical engineering business,
made good progress in 2003. It achieved an overall breakeven
performance on substantially reduced turnover and it exited the
year trading profitably with a very strong order book. Our
Building Developments business once again delivered excellent
results and we expect this performance to continue in 2004. 
Overall, the outlook for our International Regional Businesses
remains positive. In Canada, we expect further growth in our
Business Services and PPP investment activities, following the
good progress made in 2003. In the Middle East, we expect 
our traditional construction market to remain strong and to 
grow our facilities management business. In France, trading
conditions in 2003 were the most positive for several years 
and this is expected to continue in 2004. 
Therefore, the outlook for the Group is encouraging and 
we expect to deliver healthy growth in 2004 and beyond.
John McDonough
Chief Executive, 10 March 2004
In Business Services we have brought together our Building and
Services businesses to improve our ability to offer customers 
cost-effective, integrated solutions.
Our Building business is a UK leader focused on the retail, 
high-rise urban residential and office sectors of the commercial
building market and on PPP construction. Our Services business
provides integrated facilities management services for over
500,000m
2
of public and private sector estate. Its customers
range from blue-chip companies, including Coca-Cola, HBOS
and Microsoft to Government Departments, including the NHS,
Ministry of Defence and the Royal Parks.
Aligning our people and strengths with growth markets
Business Services
