 03 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
I am pleased to report that Carillion met the objective in my
2003 interim report to shareholders of delivering full-year profit
before tax, goodwill and exceptional items of not less than the
£50.2 million achieved in 2002, despite the cost overrun on 
the Nottingham Express Transit (NET) project and substantial
unavoidable increases in pensions and insurance costs.
The Group also made an exceptional net profit of £11.2 million
on its first PPP equity sale, the first in a planned programme of
such sales to create a sustainable new profit stream. One third 
of the profit from this sale is being returned to shareholders by
way of a dividend. The Board’s current intention is to continue 
to return a proportion of the profit from future equity sales to
shareholders, whilst re-investing in new PPP projects to generate
further returns.  
The Group’s performance in 2003 demonstrates the benefits 
of its consistent and effective strategy for growth and its
relentless focus on cost reduction and performance improvement.
Equally, the Group’s continued prosperity stems from the skills
and commitment of all our people and the culture of success
that has been developed throughout the business. The Board
recognises that our people are an important differentiator and
we are grateful for the contributions made by everyone in
Carillion to its success.
The risk profile of the Group’s activities has changed significantly
over the last three years, following the introduction of new risk
management criteria that govern project selection, bidding and
delivery. This resulted in the Group withdrawing in 2002 from
bidding for further light rapid transit projects such as NET, because
the procurement model for such projects does not meet these
new criteria. Today, the Group’s UK civil engineering activities are
focused exclusively on heavy rail and major road projects, where
it has a track record of delivering more reliable earnings. 
The leading role the Group has taken on Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) has also made a significant contribution to
risk management as well as to the value of the Carillion brand.
This was recognised in 2003 when Carillion received Business 
in the Community’s (BITC) ‘Company of the Year’ award for
excellence in CSR and was ranked in the top quartile of BITC’s
first CSR Index. This Index attracted 122 entries, including many
of the UK’s leading companies. 
The Group’s commitment to Health and Safety remains
paramount and we have continued to work hard to improve 
our own performance and that of our industry by working 
with others to develop and implement best practice. In 2003, 
the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate was down to its lowest 
ever level, a performance that we expect to rank with the 
best in our industry. This was overshadowed by the tragic rail
accident on the West Coast Main Line in February 2004, 
in which four of our employees were killed and three injured. 
While this accident remains the subject of formal independent
investigations, it would be inappropriate to comment on it.
However, the deep sense of shock and sadness felt by all our
people throughout the Group has redoubled our commitment 
to Health and Safety. Our challenge is to continue to turn this
absolute commitment into further real and measurable progress,
so that our people can work safely wherever they are.
In line with the confidence I expressed in the Report and
Accounts for the year ending 2002, I can now report that
Carillion has already put in place the measures necessary to
report against the recommendations of the Higgs review as
adopted in the revised Combined Code, which will come into
force for the financial year ending 31 December 2004. 
The Group has continued to develop strong positions in its key
growth markets to maintain its order book at around £5 billion
and build its largest ever pipeline of probable orders worth
around £2.5 billion, despite the loss of valuable rail maintenance
contracts following Network Rail’s surprise decision to take rail
maintenance in-house. Even without this maintenance work, 
the Group will continue to have a substantial rail infrastructure
business with opportunities for growth in the UK and in
Scandinavia, following the acquisition of Swedish Rail Systems 
in 2003. 
The Group has also significantly strengthened its ability to deliver
its strategy for growth, having completed its restructuring to
create three new market focused businesses – Health, Transport
and Business Services – and disposed of four more non-core
businesses.
Therefore, with its strong order book and focus on growing
markets in which it holds well-balanced positions, the Group
expects to deliver healthy earnings growth in 2004 and beyond. 
The Board is recommending the payment of a final dividend 
of 3.475 pence per share, making the total ordinary dividend 
for the year 5.05 pence, an increase of 5.2 per cent on 2002. 
In addition, a dividend of 1.7 pence per share will be paid in
respect of the exceptional profit arising from the first sale of 
PPP equity. The final ordinary dividend and special dividend 
will be paid together on 25 June 2004 to shareholders on the
register at close of business on 30 April 2004.
Chairman’s Statement
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman, 10 March 2004
With its strong order book and 
focus on growing markets in which 
it holds well balanced positions, the
Group expects to deliver healthy
earnings growth in 2004 and beyond.
