 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
06
Operating and Financial Review
Chief Executive’s Review
In 2004, we achieved our key
financial objectives and made
good strategic progress. We
have substantial net cash, a
large order book and strong
positions in all our key growth
markets. The Group is now
ready to move forward into
our next phase of growth,
building on the strong
platform we have created 
over the last five years.
Strategic progress 
Implementing our consistent strategy has
created a well-balanced business, which 
is focused on selected growth markets 
and with UK sales divided broadly 
equally between public and private 
sector customers. 
In 2004, we completed our programme 
of major disposals by selling Crown House
and Carillion BTP , our contracting business in
France. Over the last five years we have sold
businesses and withdrawn from non-core
markets that previously generated around
£700 million of Construction Services
turnover per annum. 
Over the same period we have grown
our Support Services and PPP Investment
activities at a compound annual growth rate
of over 12 per cent, which has maintained
Group turnover at around £2 billion per
annum. These activities now account for
around half our turnover and over two 
thirds of our profit. 
Acquisition of Planned 
Maintenance Group (PMG)
In line with our strategy for growing our
Support Services activities, we announced 
in March 2005 the acquisition of Planned
Maintenance Group for a cash consideration
of £40 million. This acquisition will
immediately enhance the Group’ s earnings.
PMG, operating through its principal
subsidiary , Planned Maintenance Engineering
(PME), is one of the UK’ s foremost independent
building services and maintenance companies
with a strong reputation for high-quality
services and customer care. PMG employs over
2,300 people and provides a range of services,
including mechanical and electrical
engineering (M&E) maintenance, building
fabric maintenance and repair , facilities
management and environmental services. 
It has over 400 customers, including a
number of ‘blue chip’ companies, central
Government and Local Authorities, and
provides services to some 40,000 properties
throughout the UK and in Eire.
In 2004, PMG’ s turnover and profit before tax
were £162 million and £4.15 million, after
non-recurring management fees, respectively .
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
goodwill amortisation were £4.85 million. The
value of net assets acquired was £10.6 million.
The PMG pension fund has a net deficit of
approximately £10 million, which Carillion 
will eliminate by making a one-off cash
contribution to the fund. This will be in addition
to the £40 million consideration and will
produce a commensurate reduction in PMG’ s
future contributions to its pension scheme.
PMG is an excellent strategic fit and will add
good quality earnings to the Group. It will
significantly strengthen our support services
offering in our Health and Business Services
markets. In particular, having a strong in-
house M&E maintenance capability will bring
considerable benefits to new and existing
Carillion customers, as this is a major element
in providing fully integrated service solutions
for buildings.
PMG has a strong order book with good
forward visibility and well-established
positions in growing markets. This, together
with the significant synergy benefits we
expect to generate, will enhance our
prospects for growth. PMG’ s long and
successful track record is based on its
customer-focused strategy, which fits 
well with Carillion’ s values and culture. 
Business performance 
Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptional
items increased by around 8 per cent to 
£54.7 million, with earnings per share up 
by 18 per cent to 19.9 pence. 
This was achieved despite the impact 
of Network Rail’ s decision to take rail
maintenance in-house during 2004.
Underlying growth has therefore been
encouraging. 
Our continuing focus on strong cash
management again resulted in a substantial
cash inflow during the year of around 
£78 million and we had net cash at 
31 December 2004 of £153.6 million, before
finance lease liabilities of £24.2 million.
Average weekly net cash was £66 million.
After a net exceptional charge of 
£57.2 million and goodwill amortisation 
of £3.9 million, the Group made a loss of 
£6.4 million before tax and a loss per share 
of 8.5 pence. Details of exceptional items 
are given in the Financial Review on page 16
of this Report. The largest of these was a 
non-cash goodwill write back of £69.9 million
associated with the sale of Crown House and
Carillion BTP , of which £68.7 million had
previously been written off to reserves.
Order book 
The radical change we have made to our
business mix is reflected in the size, quality
and length of our order book. 
In 2004, we continued to win significant work
in all our chosen markets. We maintained 
the value of our year-end order book and
framework contracts at £5 billion, despite 
the effects of selling Crown House, Carillion
BTP and two PPP equity investments, which
together had an order book of approximately
£800 million. Our order book for continuing
businesses has therefore increased
substantially. We have also maintained our
healthy pipeline of probable new orders at
around £2.2 billion.
Support Services and PPP concession
contracts account for 78 per cent of our total
Section 03 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
07
Operating and Financial Review
1. John McDonough
Chief Executive
2. Chris Girling
Finance Director
3. Roger Robinson
Executive Director
1. 2. 3.
order book. These long-term contracts have
greatly increased the quality and length of 
our order book, of which 75 per cent is for
2006 and beyond. We have also improved the
quality of our construction order book
through our selective approach and focus on
developing long-term relationships with key
customers. Consequently, our UK Building
business now generates around 80 per cent
of its turnover from 20 key customers.
Risk management
Risk is inherent in any business. Success
depends on understanding the risks we take
and our ability to manage them effectively.
Changing our business mix has significantly
improved the risk profile of our activities.
Alongside this we have also developed
rigorous management processes, which
address both our strategic and business
specific risks, including social, environmental
and ethical risks. They apply to every 
stage of all our activities, from inception
to completion. Our choice of markets, the
projects or services we bid for and how we
deliver them, are all based on identifying and
evaluating the attendant risks and our ability
to manage them. These processes are
supported by regular reports to managers at
all levels up to and including our main Board.
Decisions on all major projects are taken by a
sub-committee of the main Board, which also
monitors their performance and progress. 
Our people
Many factors are important to our success,
but the quality of our people is paramount.
Therefore, we are totally committed to
achieving our prime objective of attracting,
developing and retaining excellent people 
by becoming an employer of choice. We
continually strive to improve communication
with all our people and to listen to what they
tell us. We do this through individual
performance development reviews, team
talks and regular surveys, in which we
encourage everyone to live our core value 
of ‘Openness’ across all our businesses.
Our determination to make the Carillion
brand synonymous not only with the services
we provide, but also with the way in which
we provide them, is helping us create a
customer focused culture. This is vital to 
our strategy of providing integrated solutions
tailored to the needs of our customers.
Therefore, I am greatly encouraged by
research that shows our core values and
reputation as a socially responsible business
are increasingly important factors in making
Carillion an employer of choice. 
A more sustainable business 
Our focus on sustainable profitable 
growth means we are committed to
improving our impacts on the environment,
the communities in which we operate and
society generally. In 2004, we continued to
develop the strategy model we first published
in 2001 to help us understand how improving
these impacts can assist us in delivering 
our business objectives. We still have a long
way to go to integrate sustainability into
everything we do, but our achievements 
have made Carillion a recognised leader in
developing and adopting socially responsible
business practices. We say more about this in
the Corporate Social Responsibility section of
this Report on page 20. Detailed information
will be published in our 2004 Sustainability
Report in April 2005.
Health and Safety 
In 2004, Carillion’ s Accident Frequency Rate
(AFR) increased to 0.37 compared to 0.34 in
2003, its lowest ever level after a number 
of years of successive improvements. Even
though our 2004 AFR compares favourably
with those of our peers, it was nevertheless
disappointing. Consequently, we have
reviewed our approach to improving Health
and Safety and launched a radical new
initiative, T arget Zero, aimed at eliminating
reportable accidents. This is an ambitious
target, but as there is no such thing as an
acceptable accident, we are determined 
to reduce them to zero. For T arget Zero to 
be successful, we need the support and
participation of all our stakeholders, 
including our customers, suppliers and
partners, as well as our own people. We 
are therefore actively engaging them in 
T arget Zero and their response has been very
encouraging. Again, we say more about this
in the Corporate Social Responsibility section
of this Report on page 20 and detailed
information will be published in our 2004
Sustainability Report in April 2005.
John McDonough
Chief Executive
9 March 2005
03
