 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004
05
A Year of Good Progress
Chairman’s Statement
Our programme of PPP equity disposals
continued with two further sales in 2004,
generating an exceptional profit of £7.7
million. One third of this profit has already
been returned to shareholders by way of an
additional dividend of one penny per share,
paid with the 2004 interim dividend. Our
equity sales have consistently supported the
Directors’ valuation of our PPP equity portfolio,
which is currently some £83 million, based on
discounting the cash flows from our equity
investments at 10 per cent. The value we have
created is increasingly being recognised by 
the market and our future policy will be to sell
equity investments only when this achieves
returns in excess of those we would expect if
we retained them over the life of our
concession contracts.
Delivering healthy earnings growth in 
2004 despite the impact of transferring rail
maintenance to Network Rail, reflects the
resilience and strength of our business. This
comes from our clear vision and consistent
strategy , which have made Carillion a very
different company from the one we launched
in 1999. Then, we were predominantly a
construction company . T oday , we generate
nearly half our turnover and over two thirds 
of our profit from support services and 
equity investments in Public Private
Partnership projects. 
Changing our business mix and establishing
strong well-balanced positions in all our key
markets has significantly improved the risk
profile of our activities and the predictability 
of our earnings. These changes are also clearly
reflected in our order book, which has grown
and lengthened considerably since 1999. 
It is not only what we do that has changed, 
but also how we do it. Our values guide the
way we work together with all our supply
chain partners to provide high-quality services 
for our customers. In addition, our focus on
sustainable profitable growth by continually
seeking to improve our impacts on the
environment and on the communities in 
which we operate, has made Carillion a
recognised leader in corporate social
responsibility . T o one area of corporate
responsibility , Health and Safety , we give
absolute priority so that all our people can
expect to work safely wherever they are.
Carillion’ s transformation over the past five
years owes most to the leadership of our 
senior management team and to the skills 
and commitment of all our people. I should 
like to offer my personal thanks and those 
of the Board to everyone in Carillion for the
contributions they have made to our success. 
As previously announced, the Board has been
reviewing its independent director structure to
reflect the strategic direction of our business
and has made a number of changes. T wo 
new Non-Executives joined the Board in 2004,
David Garman and Philip Rogerson, who is also
Deputy Chairman. Jean-Paul Parayre, who was
a founder member of the Board and latterly
our senior independent director , left the 
Board at the end of 2004. I would like to 
thank him for his personal support and 
wise counsel to the Board. Andrew Parrish, 
who has been a member of the Board since
2000 and has acted as Chairman of the
Remuneration Committee since 2001, 
will not be seeking re-election at the AGM. 
I should like to thank him for his significant
contribution to Carillion’ s development.
As I have already indicated, now that the new
appointments have settled in, I propose to
stand down as Chairman and as a Director 
of Carillion on 11 May 2005, at which point
Philip Rogerson will succeed me as Chairman. 
I have greatly enjoyed leading the business and
I am proud to have played a part in what has 
been achieved. I leave Carillion in good shape
and in the capable hands of a restructured and
refreshed Board that I am confident will build
on the success that has been achieved during
our first five years. 
Carillion has already made a good start to
2005, winning a number of significant new
contracts to add to its strong order book. 
This supports the Board’ s view that the outlook
for the Group continues to be positive and 
that we will make further progress in 2005. 
In view of the Group’ s financial performance
and its prospects for further growth, the Board
is making a number of recommendations
regarding dividends. It is recommending a 
final ordinary dividend of 4.825 pence per
share, which will be paid on 24 June 2005
to shareholders on the register at close of
business on 29 April 2005. The total dividend
for 2004 would therefore be 7.5 pence per
share, including the additional dividend of one
penny per share. This represents an increase of
11 per cent on the total dividend paid in 2003,
56 per cent on 2002 and 88 per cent since
Carillion was launched in 1999. The Board no
longer intends to pay additional dividends in
respect of any future PPP equity sales, but is
recommending that the additional dividend
paid in 2004 should be consolidated into 
the ordinary dividend. This would rebase the
2004 ordinary dividend at 7.5 pence per share,
which would become the starting point for
determining future dividend payments in line
with our progressive dividend policy .
Sir Neville Simms
Chairman
9 March 2005
In this, my last statement to
shareholders before I stand
down as Chairman, I am
pleased to report that Carillion
made good progress in 2004.
Profit before tax, goodwill and
exceptional items increased
by 8 per cent and was again
backed by strong cash
generation. Earnings per 
share before goodwill and
exceptional items increased 
by 18 per cent. 
02
