 Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
08
In 2005 we delivered
substantial profitable
growth and with the
acquisition of Mowlem
laid the foundations
for a step change in 
the development of
our business
Chief Executive’s Review Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
09
In our 2004 annual report, I said that 2005 marked the beginning
of a new phase of growth for Carillion. Having completed our
programme of major disposals and built a well-balanced, customer-
focused business, delivering good quality earnings backed by strong
operating cash flows, we were ready to accelerate the development
and growth of our business. That growth will continue to be driven
by implementing our consistent and effective strategy through
customer-focused businesses, supported by a culture based on
“living” our core values in everything we do. 
Strategic development 
Over the past few years we have been seeking acquisitions to fill
capability gaps in order to improve the scope and quality of our
integrated services solutions and also to deliver a step change in 
the development of our business. We apply the same criteria to 
all potential acquisitions, namely that they must be consistent 
with our strategy for delivering sustainable, profitable growth 
and deliver financial returns equivalent to those we expect from
other investments.
Acquisition of PME
The acquisition of PME, one of the largest privately owned
mechanical and electrical (M&E) engineering maintenance
businesses in the UK, for approximately £47 million (including a 
£10 million payment to the PME pension fund) in March 2005 filled
an important capability gap. M&E maintenance accounts for up to
40 per cent of a typical building management and support services 
contract. Having an in-house M&E maintenance capability has
therefore considerably strengthened our integrated service offering
for both new and existing customers. PME is performing well as an
integral part of our business, with cost synergies now expected to
reach approximately £3 million by the end of 2006, exceeding the
£2 million originally identified.
Acquisition of Mowlem plc
Carillion announced its cash and shares offer for the acquisition 
of Mowlem in December 2005. It was recommended by the
Mowlem Board and received the overwhelming support of 
Carillion and Mowlem shareholders. The acquisition valued
Mowlem’s share capital at £313 million and was completed
successfully on 23 February 2006. 65.8 million new Carillion 
shares were issued on 23 February 2006 as a result of the
acquisition.
Mowlem is an outstanding strategic fit, particularly in support
services and private finance, and we are confident that it will deliver
a step change in the development of our business and materially
enhance our earnings in 2007, the first full year after acquisition. 
The addition of Mowlem’s complementary skills and market
strengths in support services makes Carillion one of the largest
support services businesses in the UK and significantly enhances 
our ability to provide customers with high quality, integrated
solutions in our key market sectors.
John McDonough
Chief Executive
Chris Girling
Finance Director
Roger Robinson
Executive Director Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
10
The addition of Mowlem’s portfolio of Public Private Partnership
(PPP) projects to Carillion’s own substantial portfolio will create 
a very large and valuable portfolio of equity investments. 
Mowlem also has a large pipeline of new PPP projects for which 
it is the preferred bidder or shortlisted, with the potential to add
considerable further value to our investment portfolio. Furthermore,
the acquisition of Mowlem will increase the number of specialist
people we have with private finance skills, which has been the 
main constraint to our growth in this market.
Mowlem’s considerable strengths in construction services will 
add to the breadth and scale of our own construction capabilities.
Going forward, Mowlem’s approach to construction will be subject
to the same selectivity criteria that we have consistently applied 
to our own construction activities. Furthermore, our rigorous and
proven risk management policies and processes will underpin 
every aspect of the enlarged group’s operations. 
On 18 January 2006, Carillion announced that it had agreed to sell
two Mowlem businesses, Charter, the US construction management
company and Edgar Allen, the UK rail track products manufacturer
to Balfour Beatty plc for a total consideration of approximately 
£20.5 million, subject to due diligence by Balfour Beatty. Completion
of these sales is expected in the second quarter of 2006. 
In early March 2006, the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) visited two
Mowlem offices. We have fully co-operated with the OFT and will
continue to do so as appropriate.
The integration of Carillion and Mowlem is being led by a 
dedicated team comprising senior people from both companies 
to ensure we achieve the synergy benefits we have identified and
create a business that will deliver accelerated growth, materially
enhanced earnings and strong cash generation. We expect to
deliver cost savings at a running rate of £10 million per annum 
by the end of 2006, rising to £15 million per annum by the end 
of 2007. The one-off cost of delivering these savings is expected 
to be £10 million in 2006.
Our business model for the enlarged group will continue to be
based on delivering our existing strategy through market focused
business units, each equipped with the skills and resources
necessary to provide customers with solutions tailored to meet 
their specific needs.
Business performance 
Total revenue in 2005 increased by 15 per cent to £2,284 million
(2004: £1,985 million), including revenue from joint ventures of
£259 million (2004: £126 million). 
Financial reporting segments 
Investments
In this segment 
we report the equity
returns on our
investments in Public
Private Partnership
(PPP) projects.
Support Services
In this segment we
report the results of
our activities in rail
infrastructure, roads
maintenance,
facilities management
and other support
services.
Construction Services
In this segment we
report the results of
our UK building and
construction activities
and our International
Regional businesses.
Chief Executive’s Review continued
01 Carillion is using its specialist skills
and resources to provide integrated
solutions to the NHS, including PPP
hospitals and Independent Sector
Treatment Centres.
02 The acquisition of PME, a mechanical
and electrical engineering maintenance
business, in March 2005, has significantly
strengthened our ability to provide 
fully integrated solutions for building
maintenance and services.
01
02 Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
11
*Underlying profit and underlying earnings per
share, which are defined on page 60, are
used to report our financial performance in
2005 on a comparable basis to that of 2004.
Underlying* profit before tax also increased by 15 per cent to £55.5
million (2004: £48.1 million), with underlying earnings per share of
20.4 pence (2004: 18.6 pence). Underlying earnings per share grew
by 10 per cent, after the Group’s effective tax rate returned to a
more normal level of 27 per cent, having reduced temporarily in
2004 to 21 per cent, due to a number of one-off tax settlements. 
Our relentless focus on cash management has again resulted 
in a strong cash flow from operations of £84 million. Average
weekly net cash was £37 million, net of finance lease liabilities 
of £31 million. At 31 December 2005 Carillion had net cash 
of £90.8 million, net of finance leases of £37.7 million (2004:
£128.8 million net of finance leases of £24.2 million), having
invested approximately £47 million in the acquisition of PME. 
Delivering improved results in 2005 was a particularly significant
achievement, given the impact of transferring to Network Rail
during 2004 profitable maintenance contracts that contributed
around £150 million of revenue in 2004.
We continue to report our financial results in three segments –
Support Services, Construction Services and Investments – in which
we group together activities of a similar type and risk profile to
make it easier for the Market to value our earnings on a consistent
basis. Our performance in each of these segments is summarised
below and a more detailed explanation follows later in this review.
In Support Services, revenue (including joint ventures) increased 
by over seven per cent to £989 million, with the effect of losing
£150 million of rail maintenance revenue more than offset by the
acquisition of PME and organic growth. An increase in operating
profit of two per cent, to £40.6 million, lagged growth in revenue,
reflecting the loss of rail maintenance contracts, which had higher
than average margins in this segment. 
In Construction Services, revenue (including joint ventures) increased
by 22 per cent to £1,230 million, driven mainly by growth in our
International Regions, particularly the Middle East and Canada, UK
Building and our Developments business. Operating profit in this
segment increased by 35 per cent to £16.9 million. 
Investments contributed revenue of £65.4 million. Operating profit
increased by 36 per cent to £8.3 million, due to an improved
performance across our portfolio of equity investments in PPP
projects and reductions in bid costs and overheads. As explained
later in this review, we are also creating long-term value by
investing in these projects and the Directors’ current valuation of
our portfolio is £89 million, based on discounting at 10 per cent 
the cash flows that will be generated by these investments over 
the next thirty years or more. 
Total operating profit from our three financial reporting segments
was £65.8 million, including joint ventures. After corporate centre
costs of £10.4 million, net financing income of £5.1 million and tax
on joint venture profits of £5.0 million, underlying profit before tax
was £55.5 million. Non-operating items, amortisation of intangible
assets and goodwill impairment amounted to £3.6 million, leaving
profit before tax of £51.9 million. Profit after tax was £40.8 million
and basic earnings per share were 18.7 pence.
2005 was an outstanding year for new orders, which increased 
the value of the Group’s order book and framework contracts 
at the year-end by some 40 per cent to around £7 billion 
(2004: £5 billion). Despite converting a high proportion of 
potential new orders into contracts in 2005, we also maintained 
a healthy pipeline of probable orders, worth up to £1.6 billion at
the year-end (2004: £2.2 billion). 
Our strategy for growth continues to be reflected in our order book,
with Support Services and PPP concession contracts accounting 
for some 84 per cent of order book value (2004: 78 per cent). The
longer-term nature of these contracts also significantly improves the
visibility of future revenues, with around 74 per cent of our order
book expected to generate revenues in 2007 and beyond. At the
same time, through our selective approach, we have continued 
to improve the quality of our construction order book and focused
on long-term relationships with key customers. For example, in 
2005 our UK building business generated around 84 per cent 
(2004: 80 per cent) of its revenue from 20 key customers.
Risk management
The rigorous policies and processes we have established to 
identify, mitigate and manage risk are a cornerstone of our
business. Our Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising 
on all risk issues, including our policies and processes and their
application to all our business activities. 
We address strategic risks and risks specific to individual businesses
and contracts, including social, environmental and ethical risks. 
Our risk management processes apply to every aspect of our
business, from choosing the markets in which we operate to 
the contracts we bid for and the selection of our suppliers and 
sub-contractors. They apply to every stage of a contract from
inception to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit
we expect and a service that meets or exceeds the expectations of
our customers. 
Investments 
Support Services 
Construction Services 
2004
2005
£5 billion
£7 billion
Order book 2004-2005
Our order book at 31 December 2005,
increased by 40% to £7.0bn. The more significant areas of risk, where our failure to perform 
well or changes to macro economic or market specific environments
that would adversely affect our business, are summarised below:
Integration of Mowlem. The efficient and professional
integration of Carillion and Mowlem is essential to the success 
of this acquisition and to the delivery of cost synergies,
sustainable, profitable growth and materially enhanced earnings;
Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people. The
success of our business depends primarily on the quality of 
our people;
Management of major contracts. Completing contracts on 
time and to the required standards, avoids financial penalties 
and damage to our brand and reputation; 
Closing out existing contracts. Settling completed contracts 
and collecting the cash we are owed is essential to reducing 
debt and delivering the earnings growth we expect;
Pension scheme management. The cost to Carillion of funding its
pension schemes depends on the macro-economic environment,
equity market stability and regulatory requirements;
Government investment and outsourcing. With a substantial
proportion of our business and future growth dependent on
planned investment and outsourcing of services, it is important
to maintain an effective presence in a number of growth sectors
to support the resilience of our business; 
A more detailed description of our risk management structure 
can be found in our Corporate Governance Report on page 33.
Our people
Our people are the key source of competitive advantage and it
is through their efforts each day that we meet or exceed our
customers’ expectations.
The success of our business and the value of the Carillion 
brand depend primarily upon the performance of our people. 
We therefore remain totally committed to attracting, developing
and retaining excellent people by becoming an employer of choice
and have a wide range of measures in place to make this a reality
across all our businesses.
Above all we strive to communicate well with all our people and 
to listen to and act upon what they tell us. We do this through 
a structured approach to communication, including individual
performance and development reviews, monthly Team Talks and
regular surveys through which everyone can share their views
openly and frankly, in line with our core value of ‘Openness’. 
These surveys culminate annually in “The Great Debate” in which
around 1,400 people from across the Group took part in 2005. 
Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
12
Chief Executive’s Review continued
01 Part of the new Westwood Cross
retail development in Thanet, Kent,
which opened in 2005. This 20 acre site,
which is home to 35 retail outlets, was
developed by the Carillion/Richardson
partnership and built by Carillion.
02 Carillion manages and maintains the
Royal Parks for the Royal Parks Agency.
01
02 Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2005
13
This enables us to monitor and measure our progress on a wide
range of issues, including how well we engage with our people to
recognise and value the contributions they make to our business, 
to help them develop and fulfil their potential.
Specifically in response to feedback from the Great Debate, 
in 2005 we redoubled our efforts to improve the way we
communicate, beginning with around 250 of our senior managers
attending workshops designed to demonstrate the “Power of
Engagement”. By the end of 2005 around 2,000 managers and
supervisors had attended these workshops. Good two-way
communication must be the hallmark of our business leaders 
and the benefits of this are increasingly evident in the satisfaction
and performance of our people.
Health and Safety
Carillion has an absolute commitment to ensuring that all our
people can work safely at all times, wherever they are. This
commitment extends to those who work with us and those who
could be affected by our activities, including members of the public.
This requires the continual vigilance and commitment of everyone
involved in our activities to ensure that safe working practices are
always used. This is supported by rigorous reviews, inspections,
training and education, all of which are actively promoted and led
by the Board.
At the end of 2004, we launched a radical new initiative, Target
Zero, aimed at eliminating reportable accidents by 2010. This is an
ambitious target, but we are determined to create a culture of zero
tolerance to accidents, not only within Carillion, but also within 
our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and partners.
Tragically, five people were killed while working on projects under
Carillion’s management control during 2005. These accidents
reinforce our commitment to make Target Zero a reality and its
benefits are already evident. Our Accident Frequency Rate (AFR),
reduced by 35 per cent in 2005 to 0.24 (2004: 0.37). The number
of RIDDOR accidents (Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous
Occurrences Regulations 1995) for the Group reduced by 27 per
cent in 2005 to 255 (2004:348). We say more about Health and
Safety in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report
on page 26. More detailed information can also be found in our
2005 Sustainability Report, which has been published on our
website at www.carillionplc.com/sustainability.
Sustainability
We believe that our commitment to responsible business practices
that create positive impacts on the environment and on the
communities in which we operate, is not only good for our own
people and for society in general, but also makes good business
sense. It is fundamental to delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
Our commitment to becoming a more sustainable company began
over ten years ago. Today, we are one of the recognised leaders in
developing and adopting socially responsible business practices and
for demonstrating that these practices can have measurable
business benefits. We benchmark our performance in a number 
of ways, including participating in Business in the Community’s
Corporate Responsibility Index, an independent annual survey of
sustainability performance. Since its inception in 2003, Carillion 
has each year been ranked first in its sector and in the top quartile
of all companies participating in the Index.
Our strategy model, which helps us to map and quantify the 
links between our business objectives and our impacts on the
environment and society, continues to form the basis for our
sustainability programme by identifying the areas where we need 
to improve our performance. 
You can read more about this programme and the benefits it 
delivers for our business in the Corporate Social Responsibility
section of this report on page 26. More detailed information can
also be found in our 2005 Sustainability Report, which has been
published on our website at www.carillionplc.com/sustainability.
Strategic objectives 
In order to build on our success in 2005, we have set the 
following strategic objectives for 2006:
Attract, develop and retain excellent people, by becoming 
an employer of choice;
Successfully integrate Carillion and Mowlem;
Achieve cost synergies at a minimum running rate of 
£10 million per annum by the end of 2006, and be on course 
to achieve a minimum running rate of £15 million per annum 
by the end of 2007;
Reduce net debt to circa £200 million by the end of 2006 and 
be on course to reduce it to below £100 million by the end of
2007;
Be on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings for the
enlarged Group in 2007;
Be the recognised leader in the delivery of safety and
sustainability.
John McDonough
Chief Executive
8 March 2006
