 Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
06 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
Building opportunity
We design, build and manage
innovative learning environments 
for schools and universities.
The acquisition of Mowlem in February
2006 marked a step change in Carillion’s
development as a leading support
services and construction company.
Greater than expected benefits from this
acquisition, combined with continuing
organic growth, enabled us to deliver
profit and earnings per share ahead of
our original expectations, backed by
strong cash flow from operations.  Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
07 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Carillion is now one of the largest support services businesses 
in the UK with enhanced positions in its key market sectors and
a greater ability to meet the needs of its customers, whether
this involves a single service or fully integrated solution. 
Combining the PPP investment activities of Carillion and
Mowlem has delivered significant benefits, including a larger,
more valuable portfolio of equity investments, a stronger
pipeline of new projects and a considerable increase in our
capacity to win and deliver PPP projects. 
Mowlem’s strengths in construction, particularly in the regional
building and civil engineering markets where previously Carillion
had relatively little presence, have broadened our construction
base and given us the capability to provide integrated solutions
for customers in these markets.
The good progress we have made with integration resulted 
in the acquisition being significantly earnings enhancing in
2006, rather than earnings neutral as expected at the time of 
acquisition. Furthermore, we remain firmly on track to deliver
materially enhanced earnings in 2007 through both revenue 
and margin growth.
Business performance. Total revenue in 2006 increased 
by 57 per cent to £3,593 million (2005: £2,284 million)
including revenue from joint ventures of £528 million 
(2005: £259 million). 
Total operating profit increased by 78 per cent to £117.1 million
(2005: £65.8 million), including profit from joint ventures of 
£47.7 million (2005: £20.3 million). After central costs of 
£20.3 million, a net interest charge of £6.6 million and tax on 
joint ventures of £8.1 million, profit before tax, non-operating
items, restructuring costs and amortisation was £82.1 million,
an increase of 48 per cent (2005: £55.5 million). Earnings per
share on the same measure increased by 15 per cent to 
23.5 pence per share (2005: 20.4 pence). 
Non-operating items, restructuring costs and amortisation
amounted to £14.5 million, leaving profit before tax of 
£67.6 million (2005: £51.9 million). Profit after tax was 
£60.4 million (2005: £40.8 million) and basic earnings per 
share were 21.6 pence (2005: 18.7 pence). 
Our pre-tax profit margin was broadly unchanged at 2.3 
per cent despite the effect of lower margins in the businesses
acquired with Mowlem, as we continue to implement our
Group-wide cost reduction and margin improvement
programme. As previously indicated, the potential to drive 
profit growth through improving margins in the businesses
acquired with Mowlem remains a significant opportunity. 
Our continuing focus on cash management has again 
delivered strong cash flow from operations of £91 million.
Average net debt in 2006 post the acquisition of Mowlem 
was £148 million, including finance leases of £47.9 million.
Financial reporting segments. We continue to report our
financial results in three segments – Investments, Support
Services and Construction Services – in which we group
together activities of a similar type and risk profile to make 
it easier to value our earnings on a consistent basis. 
The businesses acquired with Mowlem made no contributions
to profit in Support Services or Construction Services in the 
first half. However, as expected, all these businesses made 
good second-half contributions in all three reporting segments,
as summarised on page 8. A more detailed analysis of these
segments follows in the Finance Director’s review. 
More specifically, we have achieved or exceeded each of 
the six key objectives we set for 2006, namely to
– attract and retain excellent people, by becoming an 
employer of choice 
– integrate Carillion and Mowlem successfully
– achieve cost synergy savings at a minimum running rate 
of £10 million per annum by the end of 2006 and be on
course to achieve a minimum running rate of £15 million 
per annum by the end of 2007
– reduce net debt to circa £200 million by the end of 2006 
and be on course to reduce it to below £100 million by 
the end of 2007
– be on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings for 
the enlarged Group in 2007 
– be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and
sustainability. 
Our performance against each of these objectives is discussed 
in the following sections of this review. 
Acquisition of Mowlem. When we acquired Mowlem, we 
said it was an outstanding strategic fit and that integrating
Carillion and Mowlem would deliver substantial cost savings,
create a stronger, more resilient business and accelerate our
strategy for growth.
Immediately after acquisition, we restructured the Group to
create 14 business units, each aligned with key growth markets
and supported by lean and effective shared central services. 
By the end of 2006, the integration process was substantially
complete. When we acquired Mowlem we announced that we
expected to deliver integration cost savings at a running rate 
of £15 million per annum by the end of 2007, for a one-off
implementation cost of £10 million. We now expect to achieve
cost savings at a running rate of £26 million per annum by 
the end of 2007, for a one-off cost of up to £28 million.
John McDonough
Chief Executive Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
08 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW 
continued
My values
Innovation means building a 30-metre
bridge off site and floating it into place
down river. This enabled us to open
the bridge 6 weeks early.
Gary Bentley, Foreman
Carillion Regional Civil Engineering
Investments generated revenue of £148 million in 2006.
Operating profit increased by over 200 per cent to £26.5 million,
due to the addition of Mowlem’s substantial portfolio of
investments in Public Private Partnerships (PPP), achieving financial
close on a number of major new projects during the year and the
effect of projects moving from construction into operation.
In September 2006, we sold equity investments in eight projects
with a total book value of £21.1 million. The net proceeds from 
this sale of £46.7 million generated an exceptional profit of 
£25.6 million and reflected a net present value of the cash flows
from these investments based on a discount rate of less than five
per cent. Given that we target an overall internal rate of return of
15 per cent from PPP equity investments, an equity sale has once
again demonstrated the considerable long-term value we are
creating for shareholders through our ability to win and deliver 
PPP projects successfully.
The Directors’ valuation of our equity portfolio at 31 December
2006 was approximately £238 million, based on discounting the
cash flows from investments in financially closed projects at an
average of 8 per cent (December 2005: £89 million, based on 
a 10 per cent discount rate). 
We also have a good pipeline of new PPP projects, including three
projects for which we are the preferred bidder, in which we expect
to invest some £11 million of equity, and eight projects for which
we are shortlisted, with a potential equity requirement of up to
£69 million. 
In Support Services, revenue including joint ventures increased 
by 56 per cent to £1,539.7 million, due to further healthy organic
growth and the acquisition of Mowlem. Operating profit increased
by almost 43 per cent to £58.2 million.
The operating margin in this segment reduced from 4.1 per cent
to 3.8 per cent due to lower margins in the businesses acquired
with Mowlem and also in rail infrastructure, as expected. As
previously announced, we took action in the second half of 2006
to downsize our rail business to reduce its overheads and focus
the business on sustainable areas of the rail infrastructure market. 
This, together with our drive to improve margins in the businesses
acquired with Mowlem, is expected to improve operating
performance in this segment in 2007.
In Construction Services, revenue including joint ventures
increased by 55 per cent to £1,902.4 million, due primarily to 
the acquisition of Mowlem. Operating profit almost doubled to
£32.4 million and the operating margin increased from 1.4 per
cent to 1.7 per cent, as the effect of lower margins in the
businesses acquired with Mowlem were more than offset by
margin growth in other businesses, particularly in the Middle East. 
Order book. The value of our order book more than doubled 
to £16 billion at 31 December 2006 (December 2005: £7 billion).
Mowlem’s order book at acquisition was approximately £2.5
billion, therefore most of this increase is due to new orders won
during the year. This outstanding performance reflects the strength
of the enlarged Group and our ability to accelerate our strategy
for growth. Some 86 per cent of the order book is for Support
Services and PPP concession contracts. This continues to provide
long-term visibility, with over 70 per cent of our 2007 order book
for support services already secure. We have also strengthened our
Construction Services order book, with some 60 per cent of orders
for 2007 already secure. Furthermore, we have maintained a
healthy pipeline of probable new orders worth around £1.6 billion
at 31 December 2006.
Our people. As a services business, our success depends primarily
on the quality of our people. Only through their efforts every day
can we meet or exceed the expectations of customers and
maintain our competitive advantage. In order to attract, develop
and retain excellent people by becoming an employer of choice,
we have a wide range of policies and programmes in place 
across the Group, the success of which rests on how well we
communicate with all our people, including listening to what they
tell us and acting upon it.
We have a structured approach to communication, from one-to-
one individual performance and development reviews to monthly
team talks and an award winning group-wide newspaper. We also
conduct regular surveys through which our people can share their
views openly and frankly. These surveys culminate annually in “The
Great Debate” in which over 2,500 people from across the Group
took part in 2006, including around 1,000 people who joined us
from Mowlem. This enables us to monitor and measure our
progress on a wide range of issues, such as how well we engage
with our people to recognise and value the contributions they
make to our business and to help them fulfil their potential. 
The acquisition of Mowlem and its integration with Carillion was
the main focus of internal communications in 2006. It will
naturally take time for the large number of people who joined us
from Mowlem to identify fully with Carillion and, in particular, the
importance we place upon living our values. We know we have
much to do to build a culture of excellent communication across
the enlarged Group, but the results of surveys carried out in 2006
were encouraging and we shall continue to drive this forward in
2007. Good two-way communication starts with our business
leaders and the “Power of Engagement” workshops, attended by
around 2,000 Carillion managers and supervisors in 2005, were
extended in 2006 to include some 230 business leaders who
joined us from Mowlem. 
Health and Safety. Our absolute commitment to Health and
Safety is being translated into positive results through “Target
Zero”, the initiative we launched throughout Carillion at the end
of 2004, aimed at eliminating reportable accidents by 2010.
Target Zero, which is being led by our Board, applies to all our
people, those who work with us and those who are affected 
by Carillion’s activities. It requires the continual vigilance and commitment of everyone in Carillion to ensure that safe working
practices are always used and is supported by regular and rigorous
reviews, audits and training.
Target Zero is an extremely ambitious target that will be achieved
only if we can create a culture of zero tolerance to accidents
within Carillion, our customers, suppliers and partners. I am
delighted to report that we have made good further progress
towards this target. In 2006, the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate
(AFR) reduced by 25 per cent to 0.18 reportable accidents per
100,000 hours worked, compared with an AFR of 0.24 in 2005,
itself a 35 per cent reduction on our AFR in 2004 of 0.37. This
performance ranks Carillion among the very best in our industry. 
The total number of reportable accidents under RIDDOR (Reporting
of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995)
reduced by 24 per cent to 346, after taking account of the
increase in our workforce resulting from the acquisition of
Mowlem, and follows a reduction of 27 per cent in 2005. 
2006 was free of fatal accidents to our own people and to those
who work on our project sites and contracts. We were the subject
of one prosecution by the Health and Safety Executive, which
related to an incident in 2005, and one of our subcontractors
received an enforcement notice in respect of work being carried 
out on Carillion’s behalf.
In April 2006, around 200 people from across the Group attended
our first “Safety Action Group” conference, focused on delivering
Target Zero. Similar events will be held in 2007 to ensure we
maintain this focus and the momentum we have created towards
achieving this challenging target. 
In September 2006, Carillion Rail was suspended by Network 
Rail from bidding for new projects, following an increase in less
serious workplace accidents over an approximate four-week 
period. We believed this increase was temporary and not
representative of our overall performance. However, we entirely
share Network Rail’s objective of improving workforce safety and
regard any accident as unacceptable. Since September 2006, 
our AFR has reduced significantly and Network Rail lifted the
suspension in February 2007. 
In December 2006, Carillion was the first and only major
construction company to submit information on the Health and
Safety performance of all its businesses to the benchmarking
process sponsored by the Health and Safety Commission. 
The “Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index” resulting
from this process will enable us to benchmark our performance
against all participating companies and help us to deliver
continuous improvement. 
More detailed information on Health and Safety will be included 
in our 2006 Sustainability Report that will be published on our
website at www.carillionplc.com/sustainability, in April 2007. 
Sustainability. Our commitment to becoming a more sustainable
business has made Carillion a recognised leader in developing and
adopting socially responsible business practices.
We continue to believe that this commitment not only creates
positive impacts on the environment and the communities in 
which we operate, but also delivers measurable business benefits.
We systematically quantify the links between our business
objectives and our impacts on the environment and society 
and set specific targets for performance improvement. The targets
we set and our performance against them are externally audited
and the results published in our annual sustainability report.
We also benchmark our performance externally. For example, 
we participate in Business in the Community’s annual Corporate
Responsibility Index and Carillion is also a member of the
FTSE4Good index.
We say more about our sustainability programme and
performance in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of 
this report on page 22. More detailed information will be provided 
in our 2006 Sustainability Report, which will be published on 
our website at www.carillionplc.com/sustainability in April 2007.
Risk management. The rigorous policies and processes we use to
identify, mitigate and manage risk continue to be a cornerstone of
our business. They enable us to address strategic risks and those
specific to individual businesses and contracts, including social,
environmental and ethical risks.
Our risk management processes apply to every aspect of our
operations, from choosing our market sectors to the contracts 
we bid for and the selection of our suppliers and sub-contractors. 
They also apply to every stage of a contract from inception to
completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit we expect
and a service that delights our customers.
The more significant areas of risk where our failure to perform well
or changes to macro-economic or market specific environments
would affect our business, are summarised below.
– Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people: the
success of our business depends primarily on the quality of 
our people.
– Managing major contracts: completing contracts on time and 
to the required standards avoids financial penalties and damage
to our brand and reputation.
– Closing out existing contracts: settling completed contracts 
and collecting the cash we are owed is essential to reducing
debt and delivering the earnings growth we expect.
– Winning new work: our ability to remain competitive by
adapting our strategy and service offering to the changing
needs of our markets and customers is essential to the
continuing success of our business.
– Managing our pension schemes: the cost to Carillion of 
funding its pension schemes depends on the macro-economic
environment, equity market stability and regulatory
requirements.
– Process and systems: doubling the size of our business through
the acquisition of Mowlem has increased our dependence on
having efficient and effective integrated project, financial
accounting, internal audit and HR systems.
Section 04
Operating and Financial Review
09 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2006
2007 objectives. In order to build on the substantial 
progress made in 2006, we have set the following key 
objectives for 2007.
– Attract, develop and retain excellent people by becoming 
an employer of choice.
– Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and
sustainability.
– Deliver revenue growth of a minimum of 5 per cent 
through exceeding our customers’ expectations.
– Deliver Mowlem integration cost savings at a running 
rate of £26 million per annum by the end of 2007.
– Generate cash-backed operating profit.
– Achieve average net debt of around £150 million. 
– Deliver materially enhanced earnings.
John McDonough
Chief Executive 
7 March 2007
