 Group Chief Executive’s review
16 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our performance
Carillion’s strong progress continues to be driven 
by our consistent and successful strategy for
sustainable, profitable growth. This strategy has
delivered a sixth successive year of significant
earnings and dividend growth, as well as creating 
a balanced and resilient business.
We are committed to the highest standards 
of corporate responsibility through behaving 
in accordance with our core values and our
award-winning sustainability strategy. 
Our strategy 
> Grow support services and Public Private Partnership 
projects organically and by acquisition.
> Develop and market integrated solutions tailored 
to the needs of customers, including project finance, 
design and construction, maintenance and lifetime 
asset management.
> Maintain a strong and selective construction 
capability focused on higher added-value contracts for 
long-term customers.
Our values
> Openness
> Collaboration 
> Mutual dependency 
> Professional delivery
> Sustainable, profitable growth 
> Innovation
Operational risk management
Carillion has rigorous policies and processes in place to identify,
mitigate and manage strategic risks and those specific to
individual businesses and contracts, including economic, social,
environmental and ethical risks. These processes are described 
in more detail in the Corporate Governance report on page 49.
The more significant areas of risk for the Group and the
measures being taken to mitigate and manage them are
summarised here. 
We apply our risk management processes to every aspect of our
operations from choosing our market sectors and the contracts
we bid for to the selection of our suppliers and sub-contractors.
We also apply them to every stage of a contract from inception
to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit we
expect and high-quality services for our customers.
Risk
> The impact of the current global economic downturn on
the financial stability of our customers, partners and
suppliers.
Mitigation
> Applying rigorous selectivity criteria to the choice of customers,
projects, partners and suppliers, in relation to their financial
stability, the security of project funding and contractual terms
and conditions. 
Risk
> Managing major contracts to ensure they are delivered
on time, to budget and to the required standards.
Mitigation
> Applying rigorous selectivity criteria to ensure that we take on
contracts only where we understand the risks involved and can
manage them; applying equally rigorous policies and processes 
to monitor and manage contract performance. 
Headline objectives
Support services
> To grow earnings at operating margins of between four and
five per cent.
Public Private Partnership projects
> To use the strong positions we have established in our chosen
sectors of the Private Finance market in the UK and Canada to 
win projects in which equity investments will create significant
value for the Group.
Middle East construction services
> To increase Carillion’s share of revenue from our joint venture
businesses in the Middle East from £337 million in 2007 to
around £600 million by the end of 2009, at an operating 
margin of some six per cent.
Construction services (excluding the Middle East)
> To increase the operating margins of our construction activities 
in the UK, Canada and the Caribbean in order to improve the
combined margins for all our construction activities, including 
the Middle East, towards three per cent by 2010.
John McDonough
Group Chief Executive 17 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Section 03 – Our performance
Our strategic and financial performance against
seven Group key performance indicators (KPIs),
which reflect our strategy, is discussed on pages 
18 to 20. Our performance against the specific
objectives set for each of our financial reporting
segments is discussed in more detail in the
Operating and Financial Review on pages 22 to 34. 
Risk
> Managing our pension schemes to ensure that scheme
liabilities are within a range appropriate to our 
capital base.
Mitigation
> Having already closed the Group’s main defined benefit
schemes to new entrants, these schemes will close to 
future accrual and be replaced with defined contribution
schemes from April 2009; investment policies are reviewed
regularly to ensure that employee and company contributions 
and scheme benefits remain appropriate.
Risk
> Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people 
to maintain service quality and brand leadership.
Mitigation
> The ongoing development and implementation of our leadership,
personal development and employee engagement programmes. 
Risk
> Winning new work to deliver growth.
Mitigation
> Maintaining a firm focus on cost reduction and efficiency to
remain competitive; ‘living’ our values in everything we do 
to ensure we listen to and understand the needs of our
customers and offering solutions tailored to meet their needs.
Risk
> Maintaining financial discipline.
Mitigation
> In addition to strict contract selectivity criteria, applying 
strong cash management policies and processes to deliver 
cash-backed profit.
(1) Continuing operations 
(2) Continuing operations before intangible amortisation, 
impairment of other investments, curtailment gain, 
restructuring costs and non-operating items. 
Attract, develop and retain excellent people by 
becoming an employer of choice
> We continued to implement successful leadership, personal
development and employee engagement programmes.
Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety 
and sustainability
> Our accident frequency rate in 2008 of 0.14 ranked with 
the best in our sector. 
> Carillion received the 2008 Sunday Times ‘Best Green
Companies Award’ for large and medium-sized companies
with a high environmental impact.
> Carillion achieved a ‘gold’ performance ranking in Business 
in the Community’s Corporate Responsibility Index.
Successfully integrate Alfred McAlpine and deliver
integration cost savings that put the Group on 
track to achieve savings at an annual run rate of 
£30 million by the end of 2009
> Savings of £15 million were delivered in 2008 and we are on
track to deliver annual integration and re-organisation cost
savings at a run rate of £50 million a year by the end of 2009.
Deliver revenue growth of at least five per cent
> Revenue
(1)
in 2008 increased by 32 per cent.
Achieve earnings per share growth that puts the
Group on track to deliver materially enhanced 
earnings per share in 2009, following the acquisition 
of Alfred McAlpine
> Underlying earnings per share
(2)
increased by 19 per cent 
in 2008 and we continue to expect to deliver materially
enhanced earnings per share in 2009.
Generate cash–backed operating profit
> Underlying cash flow from operations in 2008 represented 
120 per cent of underlying operating profit.
Achieve year-end net borrowing in the region 
of £300 million
> Net borrowing at the year end was £226.7 million.
Group key performance indicators in 2008 and progress Group Chief Executive’s review
continued
18 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our performance
2008 Acquisitions
Alfred McAlpine
The acquisition of Alfred McAlpine in February 2008 was a further
major step in Carillion’s strategic development and it continues to
deliver benefits ahead of our original expectations. 
The Carillion and Alfred McAlpine businesses are an excellent
strategic fit and combining them has created the UK’s largest
support services business, with enhanced positions in our chosen
market sectors. 
Carillion is now a well balanced, more resilient and soundly
financed business, with 55 per cent of our operating profit coming
from support services, 14 per cent from our equity investments in
Public Private Partnership projects, 17 per cent from Middle East
construction services and 14 per cent from construction services
(excluding the Middle East).
Combining the two businesses also created the opportunity to
generate cost savings, which are now expected to reach an annual
run rate of £50 million a year by the end of 2009, £20 million a
year more than we expected at the time of acquisition. 
Vanbots Group
The acquisition of the Vanbots Group, a well established
construction management services group in Canada, for 
£17 million in October 2008, was also an important strategic
development for our business in Canada. The skills and strong
market reputation, particularly in the health sector, of the Vanbots
Group have significantly enhanced our ability to provide integrated
solutions, especially for Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects,
further reinforcing our leadership in the PPP market and the health
sector in particular. 
Group key performance indicators in 2008
1. Continue to attract, develop and retain excellent 
people by being an employer of choice.
Meeting or exceeding our customers’ expectations depends
primarily on the quality of our people. Therefore, the ability to
attract, develop and retain excellent people by becoming an
employer of choice continues to be our top priority. 
In 2008, we made further good progress through the leadership,
personal development and employee engagement programmes
we operate across the Group to help all our people fulfil 
their potential and contribute to Carillion’s success. 
A strong and resilient business
Underlying operating profit by reporting segment
1. Support services £113.5m (2007: £73.9m)
2. Public Private Partnership projects £29.8m (2007: £25.4m)
3. Middle East construction services £34.5m (2007: £25.4m)
4. Construction services (excluding the Middle East) £28.7m (2007: £16.0m)
£140.7m
+20%
£206.5m
+47%
4
2
3
4
1
1
2
3
2008
2007 19 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Section 03 – Our performance
Creating a culture of trust and open communication is essential 
to the success of our policies and programmes for developing 
our people. Our managers and supervisors seek to engage with 
all our people through regular one-to-one meetings, individual
performance and development reviews and monthly team talks,
supported by newsletters and our national award winning
company newspaper, Spectrum.
Listening to what our people tell us and acting upon it is vital to
good communication. To that end and to help us monitor and
measure our progress, we conduct employee surveys. For example,
every year we hold ‘The Great Debate’, an interactive survey in
which our people, selected randomly from across the Group, share
their views on a wide range of issues, which are important to 
their development and satisfaction and to the success of Carillion.
In 2008, over 2,800 people took part in ‘The Great Debate’, 
the results of which showed that we continue to make good
overall progress on these issues and that the levels of satisfaction
expressed by our people compared favourably with those achieved
by other top UK companies.
2. Be the recognised leader in the delivery of Safety 
and Sustainability.
The Health and Safety of our people and everyone who works
with us or is affected by our operations is paramount. 
In 2005, we set the demanding objective of eliminating reportable
accidents by 2010. Known as ‘Target Zero’, this objective is led by
our Board and requires the constant vigilance and commitment 
of everyone in Carillion to ensure that safe working practices are
consistently adopted and supported by rigorous reviews, audits
and training.
In 2008, the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) remained at
0.14 reportable accidents per 100,000 man hours worked (2007
AFR: 0.14), which continues to rank with the best in our sector
and follows year on year reductions in our AFR of 22 per cent in
2007, 25 per cent in 2006 and 35 per cent in 2005. 
While it is disappointing that we have not achieved a further
reduction in 2008, we have maintained our AFR at this level
during a period of considerable change and re-organisation,
resulting from acquiring and integrating the Alfred McAlpine
business, during which time 79 per cent of our projects achieved
zero reportable accidents. 
The total number of hours worked in 2008 increased by 
33 per cent to 281 million, with the total number of reportable
accidents under RIDDOR (Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and
Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995) increasing by 30 per
cent to 384 (2007: 295).
We deeply regret that in 2008 there were three fatal accidents
involving employees of sub-contractors working on Carillion
project sites, one in the UK, one in the Middle East and one in the
Caribbean. Each of these incidents was a personal tragedy and 
our thoughts are very much with the families and friends of those
who died. Six prosecutions of Carillion by the Health and Safety
Executive were concluded in 2008. Four of these related to
accidents that occurred in the former Mowlem and Alfred
McAlpine businesses between 2003 and 2007, before they 
were acquired by Carillion. 
In 2008, Carillion once again submitted information on the 
Health and Safety performance of all its UK business units to the
Corporate Health and Safety Performance Index, having been 
the first and only major construction company to do so in 2006.
This Index, which is sponsored by the Health and Safety Executive,
covers all aspects of Health and Safety management and
performance. A wide range of industries participate in the Index,
which enables us to benchmark our performance beyond our 
own industry sector. In 2008, we improved our Index score to 
8.0 (2007: 7.4), which was well above the mean score of 6.6.
In October 2008, Carillion launched ‘Behaving Safely’, which set
out the behaviours expected of everyone, including supervisors
and managers. This standard is being used throughout our
business to challenge and improve safety behaviours.
In 2008, we continued to demonstrate our leadership in
sustainability by winning the 2008 Sunday Times Best Green
Companies Award for large and medium-sized companies with a
high environmental impact. The award was based on a survey that
tested the credentials of participating companies by examining
their corporate policies and by asking employees to comment on
whether green policies are truly embedded in the companies for
which they work. A resounding 76 per cent of Carillion employees
believed that Carillion practised what it preached.
We also achieved a ‘gold’ performance ranking in Business 
in the Community’s Corporate Responsibility Index, published 
in 2008, achieving a score of 92.5 per cent and topping the
Construction and Building Materials Sector. Alfred McAlpine also
achieved a ‘gold’ performance ranking with a score of 90.5 per
cent, which topped the Support Service Sector. The Corporate
Responsibility Index involves a detailed assessment of strategy,
management processes and performance. The average score of 
all participating companies was 82.6 per cent, which demonstrates
that we not only continue to be the leader in our sector, but also
that our performance compares favourably with that of all
participating companies. Carillion also continues to be a member
of the FTSE4Good Index and we were delighted to be ranked
among the top 22 most ethical companies in the FTSE350 in 
2008 by the Observer newspaper’s ‘Good Company Guide’.  Group Chief Executive’s review
continued 
20 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Our performance
Group key performance indicators in 2008 (continued)
3. Deliver revenue growth of a minimum of five per cent. 
Total revenue
(1)
in 2008 increased by 32 per cent, due primarily 
to the acquisition of Alfred McAlpine.
4. Successfully integrate Alfred McAlpine and deliver
integration cost savings that put us on track to achieve
savings at an annual run rate of £30 million per annum 
by the end of 2009.
The integration of Alfred McAlpine has gone very well and by 
the year end was substantially complete, with the benefits of this
acquisition well ahead of our original expectations. Integration 
and re-organisation cost savings are now expected to reach a run
rate of £50 million per annum by the end of 2009, £20 million
more than we expected at the time of acquisition. The one-off
cost of delivering these savings is anticipated to be £55 million, 
an increase of £25 million on the £30 million we expected to 
incur to deliver savings at a run rate of £30 million per annum. 
5. Achieve earnings per share growth that puts us 
on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings per 
share in 2009, following the Alfred McAlpine acquisition.
Underlying earnings per share
(2)
increased by 19 per cent to 
34.3 pence per share (2007: 28.9 pence). This reflected the
Group’s overall strong performance and better than expected
benefits from the Alfred McAlpine acquisition, including a
continuing improvement in the Group’s operating margin to 
3.2 per cent (2007: 2.6 per cent).
6. Generate cash-backed operating profit.
The delivery of cash-backed profit continues to be an absolute
priority within all our businesses. Our rigorous focus on cash
management once again resulted in strong underlying cash flow
from operations of £198.3 million (2007: £135.7 million), which
represented 120 per cent of underlying profit from operations 
of £165.2 million (2007: £101.2 million). 
7. Achieve year-end net borrowing in the region 
of £300 million. 
Net borrowing at 31 December 2008 was £226.7 million 
(2007: £44.9 million), considerably better than our target of 
£300 million. Net borrowing at 31 December 2008 was higher
than at 31 December 2007 due to the acquisition of Alfred
McAlpine, which was financed by a combination of borrowing 
and new Carillion shares. Reducing net borrowing to well below
our £300 million year end target reflects our success in delivering
strong cash flow from operations, in line with our continuing 
focus on cash management.
Group key performance indicators in 2009 
In order to continue the Group’s strong progress and deliver
materially enhanced earnings in 2009, the Board has set six 
Group key performance indicators for 2009, namely
• to attract, develop and retain excellent people by 
being an employer of choice
• be the recognised leader in the delivery of safety 
and sustainability in the sectors in which we operate
• deliver integration and re-organisation cost savings
arising from the acquisition of Alfred McAlpine of 
£35 million in 2009 and achieve cost savings at an
annual run rate of £50 million per annum by the 
end of 2009
• deliver materially enhanced earnings 
• generate cash-backed operating profit
• continue to reduce year-end net borrowing.
(1) Continuing operations
(2) Continuing operations before intangible amortisation,
impairment of other investments, curtailment gain,
restructuring costs and non-operating items. 21 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Section 03 – Our performance
Outlook and prospects 
An increasingly difficult economic environment background 
will undoubtedly make the delivery of our business objectives 
more challenging. 
However, the acquisition and successful integration of the Alfred
McAlpine business has created a well-balanced and more resilient
business, with a £20.4 billion order book, a pipeline of probable
new orders of some £3.1 billion and strong positions in our
chosen market sectors. 
The outlook in support services remains positive as we continue 
to have our strongest ever pipeline of opportunities for new work,
as public and private sector customers seek to reduce estate
maintenance and facilities management costs through outsourcing
these services. We therefore expect support services to remain a
major driver of earnings growth in 2009.
In Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects we expect 
the outlook in our chosen market sectors to remain positive,
particularly the UK education sector and the health sector in
Canada. We continue to expect opportunities to add new projects
to our portfolio of PPP equity investments and to continue our
policy of selling equity investments in mature projects, which
generates significant value for the Group. 
The outlook in our Middle East markets changed significantly in
the second half of 2008. The huge level of investment we have
seen over the past few years in Dubai is now slowing down 
and we expect to see a reduction in our activities there in 2009.
However, overall we expect further growth in Middle East
construction services, driven increasingly by the expansion of 
our activities in Abu Dhabi. Having broadened our geographical
and customer base, we still expect to increase Carillion’s share 
of revenue from our Middle East businesses from the 2007 level 
of £337 million to around £600 million by the end of 2009, at
an operating margin of some six per cent.
In construction services (excluding the Middle East) we will
continue to focus on growing margins rather than revenue, 
a strategy we put in place well before the current economic
downturn. This supports our objective of increasing the operating
margin for all of our construction activities towards three per cent 
by 2010. In Canada and the Caribbean, we expect to make further
progress in 2009, driven primarily by growth in PPP construction 
and highways maintenance in Canada.
Given the overall outlook across each of our reporting segments, 
I believe that Carillion is well placed to make good progress 
in 2009, despite increasingly challenging market conditions. 
I therefore continue to expect Carillion to deliver materially
enhanced earnings in 2009, in line with the objective set 
when we acquired Alfred McAlpine in February 2008, and to
continue to reduce year-end net borrowing.
John McDonough 
Group Chief Executive 
4 March 2009
Order book
Probable orders
1. Support services £10.8bn (2007: £8.4bn)
2. Public Private Partnership projects £5.3bn (2007: £5.1bn)
3. Middle East construction services £0.8bn (2007: £0.7bn)
4. Construction services (excluding the Middle East) £3.5bn (2007: £1.8bn)
1. Support services £0.6bn (2007: £0.6bn)
2. Public Private Partnership projects £0.1bn (2007: £0.2bn)
3. Middle East construction services £0.9bn (2007: £1.0bn)
4. Construction services (excluding the Middle East) £1.5bn (2007: £0.9bn)
£3.1bn
2007: £3.6bn
(1)
£20.4bn
2007: £16.0bn
4
1
2
3
4
1
2
3
(1) Includes £0.9bn of probable orders acquired with 
Alfred McAlpine
