 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 12
Chairman’s statement
I am delighted to report that 
Carillion achieved its objective of 
delivering materially enhanced 
earnings in 2009, despite 
challenging market conditions. 
This strong performance refl ects the resilience of the Group’s 
business mix, the strength of the management team and the 
skills and commitment of Carillion’s people. On behalf of the 
Board, I should like to thank all our employees for the 
contribution they have made to Carillion’s success in 2009.
In line with the Group’s strategy, support services continues to 
make the largest contribution to earnings. This was supported 
by a good performance in Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects, 
which more than offset the expected decline in UK construction 
revenue, and substantial growth in Middle East and Canada 
construction services.
By the year end, cost savings from integrating the Carillion 
and Alfred McAlpine businesses had reached a run rate of 
£50 million per annum, in line with our expectations, and this 
made a signifi cant contribution to margin and earnings growth. 
Revenue including joint ventures increased by four per cent to 
£5.4 billion (2008: £5.2 billion) and underlying profi t before tax
(1)
 
increased by 16 per cent to £182.2 million (2008: £157.5 million). 
Underlying earnings per share
(2)
 increased by 14 per cent to 
39.0 pence (2008: 34.3 pence).
The Group’s profi t was again strongly cash-backed, with 
underlying cash fl ow from operations of £268.2 million 
(2008: £198.3 million) substantially ahead of underlying 
profi t from operations of £196.8 million (2008: £165.2 million). 
This, together with proceeds from the sale of equity investments 
in PPP projects and from the disposal of non-core businesses, has 
enabled the Group to achieve a net cash position of £24.9 million 
at 31 December 2009 (2008: net borrowing of £226.7 million). 
The Group continues to have a substantial high-quality forward 
order book that was worth approximately £17.7 billion at the year 
end (2008: £20.4 billion), with the reduction since December 2008 
primarily due to the sale of equity in PPP projects and the disposal 
of non-core businesses. Beyond that we have a strong pipeline of 
probable orders and contract opportunities, particularly in support 
services where we have our largest ever pipeline. 
Our performance
(1)  After Joint Ventures taxation of £6.5 million (2008: £10.7 million) and before intangible 
amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring operating items and 
non-operating items
(2)  Before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, 
non-recurring operating items and non-operating items.
Compound annual growth rates
2005-2009
Underlying
earnings per share
(2)
15 %
Dividend
14 %
Philip Rogerson
Chairman Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 13
Section 03 – Our performance
In view of the Group’s performance in 2009 and prospects for 
2010, the Board is recommending a fi nal ordinary dividend for 
2009 of 10.0 pence per share, making the total dividend for 2009 
14.6 pence per share, an increase of 12 per cent on the total paid 
in respect of 2008 (13.0 pence). 
In December 2009, the executive responsibilities for the Group’s 
UK Building, Private Finance and Middle East businesses were 
combined to streamline Board responsibilities and refl ect the 
strategic development and needs of these businesses, which 
share common skill sets. Richard Howson who has been Managing 
Director of the Middle East businesses since July 2007, was 
appointed to the Board on 10 December 2009 as the Executive 
Director responsible for those businesses and for our UK Building 
and Private Finance businesses. Richard brings to the Board 
considerable knowledge and experience that will enable him to 
make a signifi cant contribution to the Group’s future development. 
David Hurcomb, the Executive Director responsible for UK Building 
and Private Finance, decided to step down from the Board on 
8 December 2009. David left the Group with the Board’s best 
wishes and grateful thanks for the contribution he has made to 
Carillion and to the development of our UK Building business 
in particular. 
 
In view of the wider economic environment we continue to 
expect market conditions to remain challenging in 2010. 
However, our performance has demonstrated that the Group 
has a resilient business mix, including strong international 
businesses, a substantial high-quality order book, a good pipeline 
of contract opportunities, good cash fl ow and a strong balance 
sheet. Consequently, the Group continues to be well positioned 
and the Board believes that it will make further progress in 2010.
 
Philip Rogerson
Chairman
3 March 2010
(1)  Growth on 2008
(2)  Before intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring 
operating items and non-operating items
(3)  After Joint Ventures taxation of £6.5 million (2008: £10.7 million) and before 
intangible amortisation, impairment of other investments, non-recurring 
operating items and non-operating items.
+4%
(1)
T otal revenue
£m
2,249.1
3,512.4
3,951.7
5,205.8
5,426.5
05 06 07 08 09
+14%
(1)
Underlying earnings per share
(2)
p
05 06 07
20.4
23.7
28.9
34.3
39.0
08 09
+16%
(1)
Underlying profi t before tax
(3)
£m
05 06 07
55.4
82.6
101.8
157.5
182.2
08 09
+1 2%
(1)
Dividend per share
p
05 06 07
8.0
9.0
11.0
13.0
14.6
08 09
+18%
(1)
Reported earnings per share
p
05 06 07
18.7
21.6
27.1
28.4
33.4
08 09
+27%
(1)
Reported profi t before tax
£m
05 06 07
51.8
68.1
94.4
115.9
147.7
08 09 Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 14
Group Chief Executive’s review
A seventh successive year of 
substantial growth in earnings 
per share and dividend is an 
outstanding achievement, 
especially in the current economic 
climate, which has made market 
conditions very challenging. 
Our ability to perform strongly in current market conditions refl ects 
the benefi ts of implementing a consistent and successful strategy 
for sustainable profi table growth, supported by a commitment to 
behaving in accordance with our core values and applying rigorous 
risk management policies and processes.
Our strategy
>  Growing support services and Public Private Partnership (PPP) 
projects
>  Developing and marketing integrated solutions tailored to the 
needs of customers, including project fi nance, design and 
construction, maintenance and lifetime asset management
>  Maintaining a strong and selective construction capability 
focused on higher added-value contracts for long-term 
customers, especially the delivery of PPP projects and integrated 
solutions for support services customers.
The effects of our strategy
The success of our strategy is clearly evident in our track 
record, having 
>  transformed Carillion from being primarily a UK construction 
company into a leading UK support services business
>  delivered seven successive years of signifi cant earnings and 
dividend growth, with underlying earnings per share and our 
dividend increasing over the last fi ve years at compound annual 
growth rates of 15 per cent and 14 per cent, respectively
>  consistently achieved or exceeded our fi nancial and 
strategic objectives 
>  created a resilient business mix with strong market positions, 
both in the UK and internationally. 
The transformation of Carillion’s business away from a heavy 
dependence on UK construction into one of the UK’s leading 
support services companies, with a large portfolio of PPP projects 
and a strong and selective construction capability, has given us the 
resilience to perform strongly in 2009 and the platform to make 
further progress in 2010. 
A resilient business mix
In 2009, 66 per cent of underlying operating profi t came from 
long-term contracts for support services and PPP projects, which 
are more resilient in cyclical downturns. The remaining 34 per cent 
of underlying operating profi t came from construction services, 
where earnings have also become more resilient, due to contract 
selectivity and geographical diversifi cation, which have greatly 
reduced our dependence on the UK and increased the 
contributions from our international businesses, notably in the 
Middle East. In 2009, Middle East construction services accounted 
for 21 per cent of underlying operating profi t, with construction 
services (excluding the Middle East) accounting for 13 per cent.
Our performance
John McDonough
Group Chief Executive
John McDonough
Group Chief Execut Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 15
Section 03 – Our performance
We have been a leader in Public Private Partnership (PPP) projects 
since the inception of the UK’s Private Finance Initiative in the 
early 1990s. Since then, we have won over 50 PPP contracts 
in the UK and Canada, for hospitals, schools, prisons, military 
accommodation, roads and railways. We also led the way in 
developing the secondary market for PPP equity and to date we 
have sold 28 equity investments, generating proceeds of some 
£279.9 million and a pre-tax profi t of £105.6 million.
In the Middle East, where we have had Joint Venture construction 
businesses for nearly 40 years, we have built an outstanding 
reputation for quality and reliability through delivering many 
of the region’s most prestigious projects, including Dubai Festival 
City, the Grand Mosque in Oman and more recently the Yas Hotel, 
which forms the centrepiece of Abu Dhabi’s new Formula 1 
Grand Prix circuit. 
In construction services (excluding the Middle East) our 
experience spans almost two centuries, as Carillion brings 
together the heritage of Tarmac, Mowlem and Alfred McAlpine. 
Our highly selective approach has focused our construction skills 
on fewer higher value-added projects for long-term customers, 
particularly PPP projects for which our ability to provide fully 
integrated solutions helps to differentiate us from our competitors. 
For example, our portfolio includes the UK Government 
Communications Headquarters in Cheltenham, 20 major hospitals 
and other healthcare facilities, over 140 new schools, several 
prisons and numerous motorway, trunk road and rail projects.
Our values
Applying our core values to everything we do is creating a culture 
focused on understanding the needs of customers and using the 
Group’s wide range of skills and resources to create high-quality, 
value-for-money solutions to meet those needs. 
> Openness
> Collaboration 
> Mutual dependency
> Professional delivery
>  Sustainable profi table growth
> Innovation
Strong market positions
In transforming our business mix, we have also developed strong 
positions in new market sectors, while selectively capitalising on 
our existing strengths. 
In support services, through organic growth and acquisitions, 
notably Mowlem and Alfred McAlpine, we have built a UK 
business that has the skills and resources to provide customers with 
nationwide services to manage, maintain and operate property 
and infrastructure. Our ability to combine our skills and resources 
and use leading-edge technology to deliver fully integrated services 
for large, complex property estates and infrastructure networks, is 
one of our key strengths. For example, we provide facilities 
management and other support services for hundreds of 
thousands of buildings, including an estate of around 43,000 
houses for military personnel in the UK and some 7,000 properties 
for BT. We also provide management and maintenance services for 
over 17,000 kilometres of roads in the UK and Canada and for 
extensive sections of the UK’s rail and public utilities networks.
 
 
Support services
■
 
£117.7m (2008: £113.5m)
Public Private Partnership projects
■ £32.2m (2008: £29.8m)
Middle East construction services
■ £47.0m (2008: £34.5m)
Construction services (excluding the Middle East) 
■ £30.9m (2008: £28.7m)
Underlying operating profi t by reporting segment
(1)
2008
£206.5m
2009
£227 .8m
(1)  Before Group eliminations and unallocated items of £10.5 million 
(2008: £12.4 million), share of jointly controlled entitlies net fi nancial 
expense and taxation and non-recurring operating items. Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 16
Our performance
Group Chief Executive’s review
continued
The principal risks facing the Group are summarised in the table 
below, together with the measures we have in place to mitigate 
and manage these risks. 
Business disposals
In 2009, we disposed of two non-core businesses, Carillion IT 
Services and Enviros, an environmental consultancy business, 
generating total gross proceeds of £62.4 million. In line with our 
policy of selling equity investments in Public Private Partnership 
projects once they have moved successfully into the operational 
phase and reinvesting the proceeds in new projects, we sold 
investments in a further four mature projects during 2009, 
generating total proceeds of £100.7 million. 
 
Group key performance indicators in 2009
The Board set six Group key performance indicators for 
2009, in respect of which the Group has performed strongly, 
as discussed below. 
1. To continue to attract, develop and retain excellent 
people by being an employer of choice.
Delivering the high-quality services that our customers expect and 
upon which the reputation of Carillion and that of its customers 
depend, requires excellent people at all levels throughout the 
Group. The services we provide are often critical to the success 
Operational risk management 
The application of rigorous risk management policies and 
processes also plays an essential role in our success. These policies 
and processes are fi rmly embedded in our culture and designed 
to identify, mitigate and manage strategic risks and those specifi c 
to individual business and contracts, including economic, social, 
environmental and ethical risks. These processes are described in 
more detail in the Corporate Governance report on page 45. 
The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic 
risk issues across the Group and for oversight of risk training. 
The Group Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out 
independent appraisals of all projects before these are submitted to 
the Major Projects Committee, which is a committee of the Board 
that sanctions all major commitments and transactions, including 
capital expenditure, major contracts and business acquisitions and 
disposals. The Committee has delegated authority up to specifi ed 
levels of risk, beyond which Board approval is required.
We apply our risk management processes to every aspect of our 
operations, from choosing our market sectors and the contracts 
for which we bid, to the selection of our customers, partners and 
suppliers. We also apply them to every stage of a contract, from 
its inception to completion, in order to deliver high-quality services 
for our customers and the cash-backed profi t we expect. 
Operational risk management
Mitigation
>  Managing our pension schemes to ensure that scheme 
liabilities are within a range appropriate to our capital base
>  The Group’s main defi ned benefi t schemes have been closed to 
future accruals and been replaced with defi ned contribution 
schemes. Investment policies are reviewed regularly to ensure 
that employee and company contributions, together with 
scheme benefi ts, remain appropriate
>  Continuing to win orders in markets that are more competitive >  We maintain a fi rm focus on cost reduction and effi ciency to 
remain competitive. We are committed to ‘living’ our values in 
everything we do to ensure we listen to, and understand the 
needs of, our customers and offer solutions tailored to meet 
their needs
>  Managing major contracts to ensure they are delivered on time, 
to budget and to the required standards
>  We apply rigorous selectivity criteria to ensure that we take on 
contracts only where we understand the risks involved and can 
manage them. We apply equally rigorous policies and processes 
to monitor and manage contract performance
>  The impact of the current global economic downturn on the 
fi nancial stability of our customers, partners and suppliers
 
>  We apply rigorous selectivity criteria to the choice of customers, 
projects, partners and suppliers, in relation to their fi nancial 
stability, the security of project funding and contractual terms 
and conditions
>  Maintaining fi nancial discipline >  We apply strong cash management policies and processes to 
deliver cash-backed profi t
Risk Carillion plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2009 17
Section 03 – Our performance
In 2009, the Group’s Accident Frequency Rate (AFR) was 0.13 
reportable accidents per 100,000 man hours worked (2008 
AFR: 0.14), with four out of fi ve operational sites, worldwide, 
achieving Target Zero. The improvement we achieved in 2009, 
on an already relatively low accident rate in 2008, refl ected our 
continuing and rigorous focus on reducing reportable accidents 
to zero. It is particularly pleasing to note that in 2009 the accident 
rates in our construction businesses in the UK and the Middle East 
reduced by around 40 per cent.
In 2009, we continued to submit information on the Health and 
Safety performances of all our business units to the Corporate 
Health and Safety Performance Index, which is sponsored by the 
Health and Safety Executive and covers all aspects of Health and 
Safety management and performance. A wide range of industries 
participates in the Index and this enables us to benchmark our 
performance beyond our own industry sector. In 2009, our 
Index score of 8.3 (2008: 8.0) continued to show year-on-year 
improvement. This score compares very favourably with the 
average Index score of 6.7 and places Carillion in equal 16th 
place out of the 127 organisations that chose to take part in 
the 2009 Index.
We deeply regret that in 2009 there was one fatal accident in 
which Kenneth Campbell, a Carillion employee at a quarry in 
Scotland, was fatally injured when the vehicle he was driving 
overturned on the quarry haul road. No other vehicle was 
involved. Every accident is a personal tragedy and our thoughts 
are very much with the family and friends of Mr Campbell. 
Two prosecutions of Carillion companies by the Health and 
Safety Executive were completed in 2009. One of these related 
to an accident that occurred in the former Alfred McAlpine 
business, before it was acquired by Carillion.
Being a leader in delivering sustainable solutions for our customers 
continues to help differentiate Carillion from its peers. In 2009, 
Carillion was included in the Top 20 UK companies in the Sunday 
Times Best Green Companies. We also continued to improve our 
ranking in Business in the Community’s (BITC) Corporate 
Responsibility Index, moving from a ‘Gold’ to a ‘Platinum’ ranking, 
with a score of 96.5 per cent, which topped the support services 
sector. The Corporate Responsibility Index involves a detailed, 
independent third-party assessment of company strategy, 
management processes and performance. The average score of 
participating companies was 87.5 per cent, which demonstrates 
that Carillion not only continues to be a leader in the support 
services sector, but that our performance ranks favourably with 
that of all participating companies. Carillion also continues to be a 
member of the FTSE4Good Index. 
of the public and private sector organisations for which we work 
and for whom Carillion employees are frequently the ‘public face’. 
Consequently, our ability to attract, develop and retain excellent 
people by being an employer of choice remains our top priority. 
In 2009, we continued to develop and implement our bespoke 
leadership, personal development and employee engagement 
programmes, which are designed to help all our people achieve 
their full potential.
We strongly believe in the power of engaging with, and 
empowering, our employees to play a full role in improving service 
delivery and the overall development of our business, through 
creating a culture of trust and open communication. Our managers 
and supervisors seek to engage with all our people through regular 
one-to-one meetings, individual performance and development 
reviews and monthly team talks, supported by newsletters and 
our national award winning company newspaper, ‘Spectrum’. 
Successful employee engagement depends on listening to what 
our people tell us and acting upon it. Therefore, in addition to 
one-to-one meetings and team talks, we also conduct regular 
employee surveys to help us monitor and measure our progress. 
For example, every year we conduct ‘The Great Debate’, a major 
interactive survey in which our people, selected randomly from 
across the Group, share their views on a wide range of issues that 
are important to their personal development and satisfaction and 
to the success of Carillion. In 2009, 3,867 people took part in The 
Great Debate, the results of which showed that we made very 
good progress across the Group, with improved responses in 21 
out of 23 areas tested and signifi cant improvements in key areas 
relating to the satisfaction of our people, such as the extent to 
which they feel valued at work and feel proud to work for Carillion.
2. Be a recognised leader in the delivery of safety and 
sustainability in the sectors in which we operate.
The health and safety of our people and everyone who works with 
us or is affected by our operations is paramount. Our corporate 
objective, known as ‘Target Zero’, is to eliminate all reportable 
accidents. This demanding objective requires the constant vigilance 
and the commitment of everyone in Carillion in order to ensure 
that everyone consistently adopts safe working practices. 
We support the achievement of Target Zero with a wide range of 
tools including training, audits, our hazard reporting programme 
‘Don’t Walk By’, Safety Action Groups, strong visible leadership, 
such as regular Directors’ Safety Tours and employee engagement 
activities. Carillion’s behaviour standard, ‘Behaving Safely’, 
which was launched in 2008, was widely embedded across 
our businesses during 2009 and we have started to measure 
progress using workforce feedback.
