 Since becoming an independent
company in October 2000, P&O
Princess Cruises has expanded by
around 30%, grown its brands and
launched new cruise lines within the
fast growing German and UK cruise
sectors. It has modernised its fleet
and introduced new ways to give
passengers more personal choice
and greater flexibility within their
cruise holiday experience. Its cost
structure has improved through the
introduction of larger and more
cost effective ships and through
management action, including the
integration of systems and purchasing
across its global operations.
We believe that the cruise industry
has strong long-term growth potential
underpinned by demographic trends
and high levels of customer satisfaction.
Through continued investment in its
well-known local brands, and with
its modern fleet and strong global
reach, your company has improved
its potential for continued success.
By combining with Carnival under a
DLC structure to create the largest
cruise vacation group in the world,
your company will be even better
placed to capture future growth in
this industry. The new group will
include some of the best known
cruise brands globally and will be able
to offer a wider range of vacation
choices and be better placed to
attract customers from land-based
vacations to cruise vacations. The
DLC structure allows a continued
participation in the future of this
industry for all our shareholders. With
significant growth plans and a strong
position in this industry, the combined
group offers exciting career opportunities
for its employees.
I would like to thank the staff of
P&O Princess for their commitment
to the company. They have delivered
outstanding vacations for our customers
throughout this period of growth
and development for the company.
They have helped to improve the
efficiency of all our operations and
to deliver strong performance and
enhanced shareholder value. Their
contribution has been outstanding.
The continued strength of our brands
is testament to the professionalism
and dedication of our staff.
3 2002 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC
A word from your Chief Executive
February 6, 2003
The continued strength of our brands is 
testament to the professionalism and 
dedication of our staff
PETER RATCLIFFE, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
