 2 P&O PRINCESS CRUISES PLC 2002
P&O Princess has enjoyed great success over the past few years as part of the
P&O Group and then, after the demerger two years ago, as an independent
company. During that time P&O Princess has grown considerably and further
modernised its fleet, expanded its North American, European and Australian
businesses and established a position in the fast growing German cruise sector. As
we have done this, we have continued to record good financial results. All this has
been achieved through the creativity, professionalism and dedication of our
management and seafarers and staff to whom I would like to pay special tribute.
On 8 January 2003, your Board approved and recommended Carnival Corporation’s
offer to combine with P&O Princess.
The UK parent company of the combined group will be called Carnival PLC and the
Dual Listed Company (DLC) structure will enable all shareholders to continue
to invest in the cruise industry – an industry that is one of the fastest growing
sectors of the leisure market and has significant growth potential in the major
vacation markets of North America, Europe, Australasia and South America.
The combined group will be the world’s largest cruise company. Its strength will
include having some of the finest cruise brands in the world such as Carnival, Holland
America, Cunard, Costa, Princess Cruises, P&O Cruises, Swan Hellenic and AIDA.
Each of these brands will continue to focus on its target market and in particular, P&O
Cruises will continue to operate with the best of British traditions. The combination
will provide our passengers with a truly broad range of brands and greater choice.
As I will be standing down from the board of P&O Princess on the expected
completion of the combination with Carnival in Spring 2003, I would like to
take this opportunity to thank my Board colleagues for their wise counsel and
dedicated efforts.
Finally, on a personal note, I have known Micky Arison for many years. We
share similar values and pride in our respective companies and I have every 
confidence in the future of the combined group.
A word from your Chairman
THE LORD STERLING OF PLAISTOW, GCVO, CBE, CHAIRMAN
February 6, 2003
