 5
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Business review Governance Financial statements
Darren Shapland 
Chief Executive 
5 
 
Chief Executive’s review 
 
www.carpetright.plc.uk 
Business review Governance Financial statements 
“The success of our self-help activities 
in improving Group performance 
during the period was particularly 
encouraging, demonstrating that a 
focus on factors within our control 
can yield good results. 
While we expect trading conditions 
to remain challenging, we are 
confident this combination of self-
help initiatives will underpin the 
positive momentum of the Group.” 
 
As the Chairman notes in his statement, the Group grew underlying 
profits and generated cash during the year, with an encouraging 
increase in UK retail store like-for-like sales and a significant 
improvement in gross profit percentage year-on-year.  In the Rest  
of Europe, trading conditions in the Netherlands remained difficult 
whilst progress has been made in the recovery plan for the Republic 
of Ireland.  
The improvement in the Group’s performance this year has been 
driven, in large part, by the success of our programme of self-help 
measures, a number of which were accelerated on conclusion of the 
review completed immediately following my appointment as Chief 
Executive in May 2012.  The results from this package of initiatives 
have been very encouraging and further potential exists in the 
ongoing roll-out over the next two financial years.   
The programme is concentrated on six elements, each of which is 
discussed in more detail below: 
1. Modernising the estate 
2. Adjusting the store portfolio 
3. Enhancing our range of floor coverings and services  
4. Optimising digital as part of a multi-channel offering 
5. Developing our bed proposition 
6. Delivering a step change in service 
  
1. Modernising the estate 
We are part way through a three year programme of refurbishing 
the UK store estate, introducing an updated store design, with a  
new, more contemporary feel, in which it is easier for customers  
to shop.  This has involved improving natural light, updating 
signage, developing new layouts, replacing floor coverings and 
upgrading in-store lighting.   
We have focused on the 357 larger out-of-town stores of the estate,  
those circa 8,000 sq ft and above, of which 244 are circa 10,000 sq ft, 
including a bed department.  This ex cludes 22 of our stores trading 
under the Storey Carpets brand.   
The typical spend per store is around £55k, with post-refurbishment 
sales showing an increase of around 10% compared to the un-
invested estate, resulting in an average payback of about one year.  
As some of these stores have now passed their first anniversary, it 
has been encouraging to see they are continuing to show sales 
growth above that of the un-invested estate. 
Within this programme there were 57 smaller-scale refreshes of 
newer stores which did not need a full refurbishment but required 
some updating to align them to the latest look.  These typically cost 
around £20k per store.  
To date, we have completed 186 modernisations, representing over 
50% of this group of larger out-of-town stores, and the customer 
response has been very positive.  We aim to complete the 
refurbishment of the remaining larger out-of-town stores over the 
next two years. 
At the same time as modernising the larger out-of-town locations  
we have also been looking at our smaller format stores.  We have 47 
stores on high streets and a furthe r 16 concessions sites, which tend 
to be between 2,000-4,000 sq ft in size.  We have trialled  a ‘sample 
only’ format in two stores, with a special ‘smooth flooring’ area and 
extended ranges of roll stock samples, plus a dedicated area for 
premium branded carpets within our range.  While we are still 
refining the proposition, the results have been strong enough to 
support a plan to modernise the stores in this format. 
Our last group of stores are the mid-size locations of around  
4,000-8,000 sq ft, of which we have 36.  Again we have trialled a new 
format, with the focus on ‘sample only’ with a small takeaway range.  
The results have been encouraging and we are looking to finalise  
the elements of this mid-size format by October 2013. 
Following the success of the UK plan, we have also commenced  
a similar refurbishment programme in the Rest of Europe to adapt 
to changing customer preferences.  By the end of the year, we had 
refurbished six stores with positive initial results.  Although trading 
conditions in this business remain challenging, we are planning a 
further four store refurbishments in the first quarter of this financial 
year, prior to assessing the potential for a further roll out.  
5 5 5 6
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
6 
Business review continued 
Chief Executive’s review continued 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 
2. Adjusting the store portfolio 
At the end of April 2013 we had 478 stores trading in the UK  
and during the last 12 months we opened 11 stores and closed 23.  
This net reduction is primarily the result of completing detailed 
catchment analysis which identified a small number of overlaps, 
where having more than one store in a town was not beneficial to 
profit or cash flow.  The new stores have been smaller than the estate 
average.  These are primarily high street stores located in the Greater 
London area, where there is a h igh concentration of potential 
customers who currently do not have easy access to a Carpetright 
store.  We have been encouraged by the early trading results and see 
potential for a further 10-15 of these opportunities.    
We continue to take a robust view at lease renewal, which provides 
an opportunity to secure lower rental cost for future years.  In the 
period we achieved an average rent reduction of over 10% on the 
current rent payable in respect of leases which were renewed and 
exited seven poor performing stores.  Within the next five years  
20% of the estate has lease renewals scheduled. 
In the Rest of Europe we had 14 2 stores trading as at the end  
of April 2013.  During the last 12 months we opened three stores 
and closed three.  We now have 13 stores operating a ‘sample only’  
with a small takeaway range format, which has the benefit of lower 
operating costs without negatively affecting customer choice.   
This format allows us to reduce fixed occupancy costs by either  
sub-letting or handing back space to the landlord, hence  
increasing profit. 
3. Enhancing our range of floor coverings  
and services 
In the current economic environment our customers are looking 
harder than ever for value before making their purchase.  Based on 
our experience, we are adapting our ranges and promotional activity 
to continue to offer the best prices across a broader flooring 
selection, to strengthen our product authority as market leader and 
maximise our market opportunity. 
In the UK, in line with broadening our appeal to more affluent 
customers, we introduced a selection of branded carpets at very 
competitive prices, such as Brintons, Ulster and Westex, and sisal 
and sea grass ranges to the majority of stores during the period.  The 
results have been encouraging, generating incremental sales.  
Analysis indicates that more of our customers are choosing to have 
their carpet fitted for them, rather than doing it themselves.  As a 
consequence, we are seeing a higher proportion of our ‘pay and take’ 
roll stock – which was traditionally taken home by the customer 
from the store on the day of pu rchase – being fitted for the 
customer.  The trend has enabled us to introduce samples of these 
products, enabling us to offer a wider selection, particularly in a 
number of smaller stores.    
A further area of opportunity is to develop our smooth flooring 
selection in the UK, building on our extensive knowledge and 
success in this market in continental Europe, where it has 
traditionally made up a much greater proportion of the sales mix.  
The roll out of our stocked laminate offering has continued and is 
now in over 340 stores, alongside a laminate sample range available 
in all stores.  In addition, we in troduced a competitive Luxury Vinyl 
Tile (LVT) offer into 300 stores, with plans to extend this to over 440 
stores by the end of July 2013.  Alongside this, we have introduced a 
new range of engineered wood, which is also being rolled out over 
the same time period.  We continue to believe this category will 
provide an area of growth, supported by the strength of our value 
and service proposition. 
In the Rest of Europe, we have adapted displays to broaden the 
colour choice on our most popular roll stock ranges and introduced 
LVT to all stores.  In addition, we have introduced a distressed wood 
collection along with sisal and sea grass, the latter two under the 
branding of ‘Natural Collection’. 
4. Optimising digital as part of a  
multi-channel offering 
Our customer research indicates that the nature of our product 
means that the vast majority of cu stomers prefer to visit a store to 
make their purchase, to give them the opportunity to see and touch 
their choice of floor covering.  However, the internet is playing an 
ever-increasing role in pre-purchase behaviour, becoming a vital 
research tool for many customers and the rapid growth of smart 
phone and tablet use also underlines the importance of having an 
effective and integrated digital proposition.   
We continued to develop and improve our online presence  
during the period.  By the end of the year, on a weekly basis we were 
achieving an average of over 87,000 unique visitors to our website, a 
21% increase on the same period last year and this has produced a 
corresponding increase in appointment leads.  Some of the increase 
is attributable to an enhanced search engine optimisation 
programme and increased investment in pay-per-click.  The ability 
to track attributable sales has given us encouragement to invest more 
in this area this year.  This initiative, alongside widening the range of 
available samples, has helped to increase the volume of sample 
requests by 70%.  We have also continued to focus activity in 
improving our conversion to sales ratio, through a call centre 
manned by knowledgeable colleagues and by improved  
follow-up at store level. 
In the Rest of Europe, we are developing a process for appointment 
leads and samples and improving the compatibility of our websites 
on mobile devices.  We expect to have this operational by the end of 
the calendar year. 
5. Developing our bed proposition 
Beds provide an important complementary revenue stream, in  
our UK business, to our core floor coverings offer and we believe 
this category has significant further growth potential.  We have 
established a compelling offer with a typical in-store range of 
between 25-35 beds available at market leading prices, backed up  
by a good home delivery service.  At the end of April 2013 the offer 
‘Sleepright by Carpetright’ was trading from 271 stores (2012: 272 
stores).  The business delivered an increase in sales of 10.4% in the 
year as a whole, with 5.6% in the first half and 15.2% in the second 
half, giving an indication of the momentum being achieved.  Beds 
now represent 6.7% of total UK sales revenue (2012: 6.1%) and 
10.8% of the sales mix in those stores where it is available.  Our 
biggest opportunity is now in buil ding customer awareness that we 
sell beds and, to support this, we are increasing our investment in 
marketing activity focused on this area.   7
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Business review Governance Financial statements
7 
 
 
 
www.carpetright.plc.uk 
Business review Governance Financial statements 
By building on the lessons learnt in the UK we have looked to 
replicate the bed proposition in the Netherlands, albeit adjusted  
to reflect the needs of the local consumer.  We have opened bed 
departments in two stores as a tria l and are rolling this out to four 
more stores by the end of July.  These will be evaluated by the end  
of the calendar year.   
6. Delivering a step change in service 
In an environment where customers’ service expectations continue 
to rise, we believe there is an opportunity to drive our customer 
service standards higher and make them a real competitive 
advantage.  This view is supported by externally conducted market 
research.  Based on this research, during the year, we introduced 
new point of sale and price tickets to improve the transparency of 
our pricing.  In addition, we invested in training to develop our  
store colleagues to enable them to provide even better service to  
our customers. 
Mystery shopper visits provide a robust measure of our 
performance, enabling recognition of the best stores and identifying 
those where corrective action is needed when we have fallen short  
of our expectations.  Starting in late Summer 2012, we increased the 
frequency of these visits with every store now getting at least one 
visit every month.  Simultaneously, all store colleagues received 
training on selling and service standards and we have increased the 
bonus and incentives for those who achieve the required standard.   
As more customers place a premium on their time, we have seen a 
growth in the number of customers who would like to make their 
purchase decision in their own home.  This trend underlines the 
increasing importance of the role of the estimator in visiting 
customers’ homes, providing a selected range of flooring and 
measuring room(s).  We are currently evaluating how we can 
optimise this resource to provide a market leading service in this 
area and, as a start, have commenced a programme of ‘mystery 
shopper’ evaluation of our current performance and increased  
our training in this area. 
Our cutting and distribution centre at Purfleet provides a market 
leading cut-to-measure service to our stores, together with short  
lead times.  This gives our store colleagues the ability to sell with the 
confidence of meeting our customers’ expectation of fulfilling their 
order rapidly.  Later this year, we are switching to a new transport 
fleet, which will reduce our fuel consumption and enable us to 
increase the proportion of products under centralised distribution. 
The latter will free up time in store, to be invested in improving our 
customer service.  
In the majority of instances, the last contact point the customer  
has with Carpetright is with the flooring fitter.  In the UK, we 
recommend the use of one of 1,284 fitters who have been 
independently assessed and validated.  To monitor the performance 
of the fitter, customers are contacted after the fitting to seek 
comments on their experience.  This allows our store managers  
to track individual performance and identify areas for improvement.  
We are looking to improve the ro bustness of this process by 
introducing automation in the capture of the customer comments.  
We offer all our recommended fitters access to an independent 
assessment and have broadened the numbers of disciplines to 
support the expansion of our range into laminate and LVT. 
Outlook 
Historically, trends in UK housing transactions and mortgage 
approvals have been useful lead indicators of consumer demand in 
our sector, bearing a positive correlation with floor covering sales.  
Both of these indicators have recently shown some early signs of 
improvement, although this is from a very low base and it remains 
premature to call a wider recovery in the economy.  
The success of our self-help activities in improving Group 
performance during the period was particularly encouraging, 
demonstrating that a focus on factors within our control can  
yield good results.  
While we expect trading conditions to remain challenging, we are 
confident this combination of self-help initiatives will underpin the 
positive momentum of the Group. 
 
 
Darren Shapland 
Chief Executive  8
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
8 
Business review continued 
Business objectives and strategies  
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 
Business objective and strategies 
The primary financial objective of the Group is to deliver long term sustainable growth in earnings per share and cash flow.  W e aim to achieve 
this through the following strategies: 
Strategy  KPI Definition
Modernising the estate 
Introducing a new format with a more contemporary 
feel in which it is easier for customers to shop. 
 
Number of stores in  
new format 
The number of stores trading at the end of the 
year in the new format. 
Adjusting the portfolio 
Managing our store base to exploit opportunities which 
deliver better overall profitability.  
 
Number of stores 
The number of stores trading at the end of  
the year. 
 
Store space (’000 sq ft) 
Store gross area, including both selling and 
warehouse space (space occupied by sub tenants 
is excluded). 
Enhancing our range of floor coverings  
and services 
Ensuring we continually improve and develop our 
flooring product ranges to provide consumers with a 
market leading product choice which offers great value, 
backed up by excellent customer service. 
 
Like-for-like sales % 
Calculated as this year’s net sales divided by last 
year’s net sales for all stores that are at least 12 
months old at the beginning of the financial year. 
Stores closed during the year are excluded from 
both years (calculated in local currency). 
  
Gross Profit % 
Gross profit as a percentage of net sales 
(calculated in local currency). 
Optimising digital as part of a  
multi-channel offering  
Extending the reach of Carpetright’s brand by 
developing our online presence. 
 
Participation of sales 
originated from online leads
Net sales completed online and those in stores 
that are attributable to online leads. 
Developing our bed proposition 
Developing a bed proposition as a complementary 
revenue stream to our core floor coverings business, 
offering consumers a wide choice at competitive prices.   
 
Sales participation of beds Net sales of beds as a proportion of total sales. 
Simplifying our processes and a focus on  
cash management 
To provide the flexibility to offer competitive prices and 
improve our service,  we have a programme of activity to 
simplify and reduce the cost of processes, alongside a 
focused approach to cash management.  
 
Costs as % of sales 
Operating costs expressed as a percentage of net 
sales (calculated in local currency). 
Net debt Value of net debt at year end. 
   9
www.carpetright.plc.uk
Business review Governance Financial statements
9 
 
 
 
www.carpetright.plc.uk 
Business review Governance Financial statements 
 
 
 
 
 
Performance 
 
 
 
 
Business 
 
2013
 
 
 
 
 
2012 
 
2011 2010
An extensive programme of refurbishment has resulted in 18 6 
stores now trading in the new format. 
 
UK  186 32  n/a n/a
Initial stores modernised and format being refined. 
 
Europe  6 n/a  n/a n/a
We have opened 11 stores and closed 23. 
 
UK  478 490  539 561
We have opened three stores and closed three. 
 
Europe  142 142  140 142
The reduction in stores numbers has resulted in a corresponding 
decrease in square footage. 
 
UK  4,153 4,270  4,514 4,626
Whilst store numbers are static, we have returned 4k sq ft of 
surplus space to landlords. 
 
Europe  1,566 1,570  1,558 1,580
Against a back drop of a challenging consumer environment, 
self-help activities have delivered sales growth throughout  
the year. 
 
UK  2.2% (0.2%)  (6.0%) 4.2%
The deterioration of customer confidence in the Netherlands has 
had a significant impact, partially offset by the success of the 
recovery plan in the Republic of Ireland. 
 
Europe  (11.0%) (1.2%)  (4.0%) (6.2%)
Good progress made on increasing gross profit through a 
combination of better sourcing and promotional planning. 
 
UK  61.5% 58.9%  62.2% 61.9%
Continued focus on better sourcing and promotional planning. 
 
Europe  57.2% 57.0%  57.1% 58.5%
We have continued to develop and improve our online presence, 
focusing activity on our conversion to sales ratio. 
 
UK  5.2% 3.9%  2.1% n/a
The development of the proposition has increased both sales and 
mix participation.  
 
UK  6.7% 6.1%  5.1% 3.5%
We have reduced our store cost base by 0.9% through  
reduction in the number of stores and successful rent 
negotiations.  This was offset by an increase in advertising 
supporting self-help activities. 
 
UK  58.7% 58.2%  57.7% 55.0%
Underlying costs decreased by 2.2% reflecting tight management 
control and a focus on achieving efficiencies.  This was partially 
offset by the expected increased occupancy costs following the 
sales and leaseback of four Belgian properties at the end of the 
previous financial year. 
 
Europe  56.7% 52.5%  53.3% 51.6%
The cash generative nature of the business provided the funding 
for the store modernisation programme and an overall reduction 
in net debt. 
 
Group  £10.2m £19.1m  £65.7m £71.3m
