 4
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
Lord Harris of Peckham 
Chairman 
4 
Business review continued 
Chairman’s statement 
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 
“The backbone of the business and 
the key to Carpetright’s future success 
will be the quality of our service, 
backed by the very best product 
ranges at competitive prices.” 
 
In my statement last year I noted that, while we expected economic 
conditions to remain difficult for some time, we were encouraged 
that we were beginning to see a positive impact from the self-help 
actions we were taking.   These two trends did indeed come to 
characterise the year as a whole, with solid like-for-like sales growth 
achieved in the UK being driven by self-help actions, in an overall 
floor coverings market which we believe declined year on year.  In 
Europe, political and economic uncertainty continues to depress 
consumer demand and this has impacted the Group particularly 
hard in the Netherlands.  Against this background it is therefore 
encouraging to be able to report an improvement in underlying 
Group profit and a further reduction in net debt. 
Total revenue for the 52 weeks en ded 27 April 2013 decreased by 
2.9% to £457.6m (2012: £471.5m).  Underlying profit before tax 
increased by 142.5% to £9.7m (2012: £4.0m).  After the impact of 
exceptional items the loss before tax was £5.1m (2012: profit of 
£13.5m) (further information on these items is contained in the 
Financial Review).  Underlying earnings per share increased to 9.6p 
(2012: 4.5p) and basic loss per share was 9.8p (2012: earnings of 
16.4p).  During the period we have continued our focus on reducing 
the Group’s net debt.  It is therefore pleasing to announce that as at 
27 April 2013 this has nearly halved to £10.2m (2012: £19.1m), 
demonstrating the ability of the Group to continue to generate cash 
even in these difficult times. 
In my statement last year, I said we would look to restore payment  
of a dividend when debt has been reduced, a sustained recovery is 
evident and the financial results of the Group reflected this.  Good 
progress has been made on the debt and we believe our self-help 
activities have momentum, although it is important to continue to 
invest in these to improve the level of profitability.  That said, the 
economic environment continues to be uncertain and the Board  
feel it is important to see a continued recovery before restoring the 
dividend.  The Board believes the difficult decision not to pay a 
dividend is in the best interests of the business and the Board will 
continue to review the dividend policy on a biannual basis. 
In May 2012, Darren Shapland was appointed as Chief Executive 
and he has made a huge contribution in his first year in this role.  
Darren has established an Executive Committee to manage the 
business on a day-to-day basis and I am working closely with them 
to pass on the benefit of my knowledge and experience.  As 
anticipated, my active executive involvement will continue to 
decrease over time as part of a progressive transfer to Darren  
and the executive management team.   
I would like to welcome Andrew Page who will be joining the Board, 
as a Non-Executive Director, effective from 1 July 2013.  I am sure 
his experience and track record will enable him to make a valuable 
contribution to the Board. 
The backbone of the business and the key to Carpetright’s future 
success will be the quality of our service, backed by the very best 
product ranges at competitive prices.  Each is key to guaranteeing 
that our proposition continues to resonate with our customers.   
The management team is striving to ensure that every colleague is 
fully attuned to the need for continuous improvement in all of these 
areas.  I am sure that our colleagues in stores, distribution centres 
and support offices will rise to the challenge, as it is their efforts that 
really make the difference.  Once again, on behalf of the Board, I 
extend my thanks for their commitment this year. 
Looking forward, we expect fragile consumer confidence will 
continue to produce a weak floor coverings market.  We are 
concentrating on maintaining the momentum delivered by our  
self-help actions taken during the year, whilst recognising within  
our plans that economic conditions are likely to remain difficult  
for some time.   
 
 
Lord Harris of Peckham 
Chairman
