 4
www.cpwplc.com
The Carphone Warehouse has changed signiﬁcantly over
the last ﬁve years, from a company that generated almost all
of its income from its UK retail operations, to a multinational
retail group making proﬁts from a range of related services
across ten geographical markets. We are now able to
achieve increasing returns on our ﬁxed cost base and
invested capital by extending our customer relationships
beyond the point of sale. As a result, the Group now has 
a much more stable base from which to pursue consistent
long-term proﬁtable growth and the maximisation of
shareholder value.
Throughout this period of change, the retail portfolio 
has remained at the heart of everything we do. With the
continued proliferation of handsets, networks and services
making the purchasing decision more complex than ever,
our customers are quite rightly making increasingly rigorous
demands on our sales consultants’ knowledge. In this
context it has been another year of strong growth and 
rapid development for the Group. Our continued focus 
on impartial advice and customer service is translating 
into continued market share gains and increasing levels 
of repeat business. Our move into ﬁxed line has been
decisive and successful and provides the Group with 
a further avenue for long-term growth.
Developing a broad-based telecoms group
We have a clear strategy designed to build on our track
record in retailing and to allow us to move quickly when 
we see new market opportunities arise, as beﬁts our
entrepreneurial roots. Our objective at all times remains 
the creation of signiﬁcant and sustainable shareholder
value. There are three key elements of our Group strategy:
• To continue to grow retail market share in all our
geographical markets both by investing in new store
openings and by generating like-for-like growth from 
our existing estate;
• To develop incremental income streams from our customer
relationships. We have achieved this historically through
our insurance services and network revenue sharing
agreements, and now see a signiﬁcant opportunity 
in residential ﬁxed line services; and 
• To grow our business-to-business ﬁxed line operations
organically and through acquisition.
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress
on each part of this strategy during the last twelve months,
as I will outline below.
Growing our retail presence
Our retail business had a very strong year. Undoubtedly 
we beneﬁted from buoyant markets across much of
Europe, but without exception we outperformed these
markets and made good progress in our market share.
Further market share gains remain at the top of the
strategic agenda because of the additional inﬂuence 
this gives us in our commercial agreements with mobile
operators and handset manufacturers.
We connected 5.35m mobile phones during the period, 
an increase of 22.6% on 2003. More signiﬁcantly, we
achieved 26.4% growth in subscription connections to
2.41m, extending our track record to 21.8% compound
growth over the last four years. 
We also continued to invest heavily in our store portfolio,
and opened a total of 74 new stores, net of closures and
disposals. In the coming year we intend to accelerate our
store opening programme with a particular focus on our
biggest markets – the UK, Spain and France. New stores
are generating very strong incremental returns on capital,
and the growing proﬁle of our brand outside the UK is
speeding up the rate of payback.
Developing incremental revenue streams from 
customer relationships
We launched TalkTalk, our UK residential ﬁxed line service,
in February 2003. By March 2004 we had attracted
385,000 customers, with the rate of customer acquisition
accelerating throughout the year. Our goal is to become 
the natural alternative to BT in the ﬁxed line market, and 
we anticipate that our introduction of unlimited free calls
between all TalkTalk customers from April 2004 will help 
us achieve this.
Our ﬁxed line aspirations are not limited to the UK as we
see an opportunity to leverage our retail presence and
brand in other markets by introducing a similar service.
Towards the year end we completed acquisitions in Spain
and Switzerland that will allow us to tackle those residential
markets, and we have also negotiated terms to enter the
French market as a pure reseller. 
Chief Executive’s Review
“Our focus on impartial advice and
customer service is translating into
ongoing market share gains and increasing
levels of repeat business. Our move into
fixed line has been decisive and successful
and provides the Group with a further
avenue for long-term growth.”
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer
3,603 3,615 4,364 5,350
03 04 02 01
Total connections 
Retail and Online (000s)
1,557 1,767 1,909 2,413
03 04 02 01
Subscription connections 
Retail and Online (000s) The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2004
5
In mobile services we further developed our customer
management operations with the acquisition of Hutchison
Telecommunications GmbH in Germany in June 2003. 
The acquisition gives us over 600,000 mobile customers
and an important recurring revenue stream in a market 
in which our retail operations have historically struggled
through lack of scale. The combined operations are now
proﬁtable and provide a stable platform for future growth in
Germany. Overall, we now manage nearly two million mobile
customer relationships across Germany, the UK and France.
Finally, it is worth noting that in spite of the heightened
activity of launching new services during the year, our other
recurring businesses did not suffer. On the contrary, we
added a record 0.26m new insurance customers, taking the
total to 1.32m, and grew proﬁts in our insurance business
by 27.4%. This is testament to our sales consultants’ ability
to offer new services without compromising sales of more
established products, and proof of the wider viability of our
business model. 
Growing our business-to-business fixed line operations
In its ﬁrst full year within the Group, Opal performed
outstandingly well and exceeded all our expectations, 
with trafﬁc over the network growing by 100.5% on a pro
forma basis. The combination of engineering excellence 
and a rigorous sales and marketing focus is proving to be 
a powerful one. 
Looking forward, we are conﬁdent that we can continue 
to grow Opal both organically and through acquisition. We
expect consolidation in the sector to accelerate over the next
twelve months and we will explore appropriate opportunities. 
Outlook
The outlook for our core businesses is promising. We are
once again operating in a handset market demonstrating
strong growth. The rapid increase in the volume of our 3G
connections since the start of 2004 gives some indication
of likely future demand, and we are now seeing the
incumbent operators start to come to market with their 
own 3G services. At the same time the rate of innovation
and renewal from the handset manufacturers continues 
to stimulate consumer demand. 
These are good market conditions for The Carphone
Warehouse as customers not only rely on our advice for the
most appropriate handset and tariff, but also progressively
require educating in maximising the functionality of their
chosen mobile phone. We therefore expect to continue 
to strengthen our position through market share gains and
new store openings.
On the ﬁxed line side, we anticipate further strong growth 
in our TalkTalk customer base as the appeal of our free calls
proposition becomes more widely recognised. We anticipate
that we will have over 900,000 customers by March 2005.
Our ﬂedgling ﬁxed line operations outside the UK will start
to recruit customers in the coming months and should
break even in the ﬁrst year, with good growth in proﬁts
anticipated over the medium term.
Opal has had an outstanding 12 months. We remain
conﬁdent that Opal can continue to grow revenues at an
attractive rate in the year ahead, and maximise efﬁciency
through increased interconnection and strict control of
operating costs.
As always, our continued success is down to the dedication
and expertise of all of our employees. Recruitment and
training remain as important as ever and in the last 
12 months over 1,500 people joined the Group, bringing 
the total to nearly 11,000. I am delighted to welcome all 
of these new recruits, including those who have joined as 
a result of our acquisitions in Germany, Spain and Switzerland.
With our accelerated store opening plans, the continued
expansion of our customer service activities and our
investment in the infrastructure to support future growth, 
we expect to create a further 1,000 jobs across Europe 
in the current year.
I would also like to extend my thanks to all of our
customers, suppliers and investors for their continued
support as we grow through what are very exciting times. 
I am conﬁdent that over the next year we will extend our
position as the leading independent mobile phone retailer 
in Europe, continue to execute on our ﬁxed line strategy,
and deliver further proﬁtable growth.
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
38.4 57.7 77.1 110.5
03 04 02 01
Contribution from recurring
revenues (£m)
33.7 44.7 49.7 55.3
03 04 02 01
Contribution from recurring
revenues (% of total)
The outlook for our core businesses is
promising. We are once again operating 
in a handset market demonstrating strong
growth. The rate of innovation and renewal
from the handset manufacturers continues
to stimulate consumer demand. 
