 HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT (£m)
’0 5 ’0 4 ’0 3 ’02
4 6. 5
5 8.0
81.1
106. 9
REVENUE (EX WHOLESALE) (£m)
’0 5 ’0 4 ’0 3 ’02
810
1,0
35
1,6
7
1
2,22 3
6
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
I
t has been another very good year for The Carphone
Warehouse. Our excellent ﬁnancial performance stems
from our continued investment in growing our existing
businesses and our ability to identify and exploit new
commercial opportunities both through our existing asset
base and via acquisition. We are committed to long-term
value creation, through the development of a portfolio of
related businesses and services that can deliver attractive
and sustainable growth in earnings and dividends. Our
track record speaks for itself and the more detailed
analysis of our strategy that follows demonstrates that our
plans for the future are clear, exciting and achievable.
Developing a broad-based telecoms group
Our strategy remains essentially consistent with that
outlined in last year’s Annual Report and is built on
three core objectives:
• To continue to grow market share in all our
geographical markets both by investing in new 
store openings and by generating like-for-like 
growth from our existing estate and developing
additional sales channels;
• To maximise the lifetime value of our customers, 
both by providing a level of service that encourages
repeat business, and by identifying relevant new
products and services where we have a sustainable
competitive advantage over other suppliers; and
• To grow our business-to-business ﬁxed line operations
organically and through acquisition, and to invest in
our network to provide an increasing range of
communications services.
Before reporting on progress in each of these areas in
more detail, it is worth highlighting how closely integrated
the different elements of our strategy really are.
Without our stores and our market share, we would not
be able to provide such consistent levels of service and
value to our customers; without our ﬁxed line network
and its business trafﬁc, we would not enjoy such a
competitive advantage in the provision of residential
services; and without the combination of our mobile
network relationships, our stores and our ﬁxed line
network, we would not have been able to launch a new
service such as Mobile World. Sustainable competitive
advantage does not come from any of these assets in
their own right, but from their unique combination.
Growing our retail presence
At the start of the year we aimed to open 200 new
stores across Europe, in a concerted drive to build on
our substantial retail platform and become a more
signiﬁcant player in all of our markets. By the year end
we had succeeded in opening a record 247 stores, net
of closures. In our two biggest retail markets, the UK and
Spain, we opened 92 stores and 75 stores respectively. 
We continue to generate a very attractive return on 
new store openings, comfortably in excess of our two-
year payback hurdle. Our return on investment on
stores opened since 2002 has consistently been over
60%. Taking into account the lifetime value of Insurance,
Ongoing ARPU share and TalkTalk proﬁts, the return 
on investment is in excess of 140%. However, we also
enjoy other, broader effects of building our presence,
such as the growing handset purchasing beneﬁts that
our increasing scale gives us, and our improving
position as a key partner of the mobile networks in 
all our markets. 
We intend to continue this strategy of rapid physical
expansion into the new ﬁnancial year, and have plans 
to open at least a further 250 stores by March 2006.
Once again, the UK and Spain will represent the
majority of new openings, but we see signiﬁcant
expansion opportunities in all our markets. In particular,
the success of our German business since the
acquisition of Hutchison Telecommunications in 
June 2003 has given us conﬁdence to expand 
our operations in that market, which represents a
signiﬁcant long-term opportunity.
We are developing a portfolio of related
businesses and services that can deliver
attractive and sustainable growth in
earnings and dividends
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
5 KEY TARGETS
further development of broadband, and the introduction
of line rental, will both be key strategic initiatives in the
coming year, and central to our aim of becoming a mass
market provider of telecoms services to the home. We
have set a long-term target of 2 million voice customers
in the UK by March 2008, and expect to have 100,000-
150,000 broadband customers by March 2006.
On the mobile side, we have recently renewed our
strategic focus on our MVNO strategy. During the year
we launched a virtual network in France, Breizh Mobile
– the ﬁrst service of its kind in that country. We have
cut our tariffs aggressively on Fresh, our UK virtual
network, and intend to remain the price leader in the
discount segment of the market. In April 2005, we
launched Mobile World, a highly innovative mobile
service offering international tariffs that compete head-
on with the cheapest available ﬁxed line international
tariffs. The initial response to the launch has exceeded
our expectations and we are in the process of
expanding its distribution, as planned, into thousands
of third-party outlets across the UK.
Growing our business-to-business fixed line operations
Opal has consolidated well on its outstanding year 
of growth last year. The business mix has improved
signiﬁcantly towards directly-managed customers and
trafﬁc growth has continued to be strong. Excluding
TalkTalk trafﬁc, minutes carried rose by 20.9% year-on-
year to 5.45 billion. We also began to consolidate the
smaller end of the alternative carrier market, acquiring 
a number of resellers during the year.
We are excited about the ongoing growth prospects 
for Opal, with its continued strong focus on sales and
marketing. We intend to grow the Opal business both
by winning new customers and by broadening the 
range of services we provide to existing customers. 
We launched line rental successfully this year and 
will extend its roll-out in the coming year, while also
providing DSL-based broadband services for the ﬁrst
time. In addition, we believe that there is strong demand
from our business customer base for mobile services,
and we will invest in the coming year in growing our
corporate mobile proposition to meet that demand.
Maximising customer lifetime value
Since before our IPO ﬁve years ago, we have been
looking at ways to broaden our business model by
introducing new products and services where we 
can add value both to our customers and our mobile
network partners, and improve the quality and visibility
of our earnings. With 56.1% of Group contribution this
year coming from recurring sources, the ﬁnancial case
for this strategy is clear. At the same time, we have
achieved compound annual growth in these recurring
proﬁt streams of 47.4% over the last ﬁve years.
We have always operated on the basic premise that if
we provide a good service for our customers, they are
more likely to reward us with their loyalty. Similarly, if we
can demonstrate good customer traction to the mobile
network operators, we become more of a value-added
partner to them rather than simply a recruitment channel.
This has allowed us to structure customer management
agreements with a number of networks in the UK and
France, and to share in the ongoing value of the
customers we recruit via revenue-sharing agreements.
More recently we have launched residential ﬁxed line
services. Within just two years, we have made TalkTalk
in the UK the clear number one alternative to BT and
now take up to 50% of all customers who leave BT
each month. TalkTalk UK has moved into proﬁtability
already and will be a major driver of Group proﬁts
growth over the medium term.
We have been very active this year in evolving our 
ﬁxed line strategy. TalkTalk has now been launched 
in France, Spain, Germany and Switzerland, and we 
have moved into Ireland and Belgium since the year
end. Our UK business launched a very competitive
broadband service in November 2004, and the
customer response has comfortably exceeded our
expectations. We are now reviewing our options to
assess the most effective way to build a signiﬁcant 
and proﬁtable broadband business while continuing to
deliver outstanding value to our broadband customers.
Looking ahead, we see numerous opportunities to build
on the platform we have created by providing additional
services to our customers. On the ﬁxed line side, the
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued www.cpwplc.com
10%
MARKET SHARE OF
MOBILE PHONE MARKET
2m
TALKTALK UK CUSTOMERS 
BY MARCH 2008
2
5
0
STORE OPENINGS THIS YEAR
7 8
Chief Executive Officer’s Review continued
Everything that our business-to-business and
residential ﬁxed line operations can achieve is reliant 
on the technical excellence and outstanding efﬁciency
of the Opal network. During the year, the build-out 
into BT’s local exchange network was completed,
maximising the cost efﬁciency of carrying calls over 
our network. This year we plan to add further capacity
and to adapt the network for future integration into 
BT’s 21st Century Network. Through these avenues,
we are preparing our network for continued strong
growth in trafﬁc, and for the further move towards
corporate data products.
Outlook
The business has never been in better shape. The
markets in which we operate are very attractive.
Continued intense competition between mobile
networks translates into compelling offers for our
customers. We expect further competition over the
medium term as networks seek to migrate customers
to their 3G platforms and more MVNOs enter the
market. The handset market is vibrant, with more
models than ever before due to be released in the 
next 12 months and a number of new manufacturers
seeking to gain a foothold in the European market. 
In response to these excellent market conditions, 
the acceleration in the expansion of our retail platform
will continue into this ﬁnancial year, as outlined above.
This feeds through into strong growth prospects across
the whole of the Distribution division. Although the
current weakness in UK consumer spending has been
well documented, we believe the dynamics of mobile
phone retailing are materially different from the sale of
other consumer goods. This, in addition to our diversiﬁed
and service-orientated proposition and our European
platform, gives us some insulation from the consumer
economic environment.
On the ﬁxed line side, we have now proved that
TalkTalk has all the ingredients to become the major
alternative force in UK residential communications, and
further regulatory change over the next year should
allow us to move to the next level in terms of the scale
of our operations and the range of services we offer.
The investment we are making in the Opal network 
will continue to maximise the value we achieve from
providing services to homes and businesses, and
extend the range of those services. Outside the UK, 
we will invest further in building our existing customer
bases and entering new ﬁxed line markets.
The outlook for our mobile services operations is 
very promising. Our German service provision 
business, The Phone House Telecom, has signiﬁcantly
outperformed our expectations and we will continue 
to invest in growing the base strongly. Our MVNO
strategy is gaining pace and reﬂects the true
entrepreneurial roots of the Group: identifying and
exploiting market niches while using our existing 
assets in innovative new ways.
We ask a lot of our employees and every year they
respond to the challenges we set them. This year,
despite no major acquisitions, a further 2,000 people
have joined The Carphone Warehouse, taking the total
number of employees to over 12,000. We are very
pleased to welcome all the new joiners and extend 
our thanks to all of our employees for their exceptional
service in the last twelve months.
Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank
Hans Snook for his valuable contribution to the
development of the Group during his three years as
Chairman. We have been very lucky to beneﬁt from 
his knowledge and guidance over that time. In turn, 
I am delighted to welcome John Gildersleeve as our
new Chairman. John knows the business well, having
already served on the Board for ﬁve years, and I know
his rich commercial experience will be invaluable to 
the Group as we enter this next phase of growth.
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200
5
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
3
G MIGRATION TO BE 
A KEY FUTURE DRIVER
CONVERGENCE OF MULTIPLE
APPLICATIONS ON THE 
MOBILE HANDSET
FURTHER BENEFITS FROM
REGULATORY CHANGE IN THE
UK FIXED LINE MARKET 
