 Chief Executive’s Review
I
am pleased to report that we have achieved another
year of strong growth. The Group floated over five
years ago now, and has grown at a rate that we could
never have predicted. However, we are absolutely
committed to approaching business as we always
have done: by being entrepreneurial, quick to act 
and opportunistic, within a broad strategic framework.
We retain the same flat structure and accountability
that has allowed us to thrive in the dynamic markets 
of the last fifteen years.
More importantly perhaps, we maintain a private
company mentality when it comes to investment 
and growth opportunities. Our focus is primarily 
on long-term value creation. As a result, we will
continue to invest in new business areas where we 
are confident of generating incremental growth in
future cash earnings, even if short-term returns are
depressed as a result. Business opportunities do not
conveniently arise in a timely or regular fashion, so it 
is an important aspect of our role as a management
team to communicate the scale, timing and impact 
of new business initiatives so that investors can make
informed decisions when short-term earnings are
depressed by investment.
Strategic context
Our strategic approach is built on three 
primary objectives:
• To continue to grow market share in all our
geographical markets, by investing in new store
openings, generating like-for-like growth from 
our existing estate, and developing additional
distribution channels;
• To maximise the lifetime value of our customers,
both by providing a level of service that encourages
repeat business, and by identifying relevant new
products and services where our brand, service 
and distribution give us an advantage over other
suppliers; and
• To become the leading alternative provider of fixed
line telecommunications services in the UK.
I wrote last year about the importance of combining
our key assets – stores, people, fixed line infrastructure
and supplier relationships – to provide a range of
services where we believe we have a sustainable
advantage. However, there is a further and crucial
element to this approach which is coming to define
the way we do business.
Whether in retail or telecoms, our goal is to create the
best possible value proposition for our customers. We
do this by aiming to control costs and drive volume
over margin. As scale or investment benefits accrue,
we look to reinvest those benefits in improving the
customer proposition and driving more volume, rather
than increasing margin. This creates a virtuous circle.
This is a familiar strategy in the retail industry, where a
number of companies with this mindset have achieved
very strong positions in their subsectors. At the same
time, there are numerous examples of companies that
have been too profitable for too long, thus becoming
uncompetitive and allowing new entrants to come in
and undercut them.
In the telecoms industry, the prevailing attitude seems
to be to price services according to what customers
are prepared to pay, and margins across the board are
generally high. Our approach, as highlighted in April
2006’s broadband launch, is to charge customers as
little as possible while still making a reasonable return
for the business. Thus our infrastructure investment
over the next 12 months gives us the opportunity to
pass on the bulk of our savings on regulated costs,
rather than improve our customer margins.
Growing our retail presence
At the start of the year we set a target of 250 store
openings across our ten markets, maintaining the
acceleration in roll-out from the previous year. In the
end we significantly exceeded this target, opening 
317 stores in the last 12 months. Of these, we 
opened 68 stores in the UK and 99 in Spain.
Our distribution strategy has been enhanced over the
last two years by the growth of our Online operations
in the UK, and the development of a franchise store
model in a number of markets. Through organic
growth and acquisition, our Online operations have
achieved compound annual connections growth of
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2006 4
HEADLINE OPERATING PROFIT 
UP 34.7% (£m)
’06 ’05 ’04 ’03
58.0
81.1
105.2
141.8
REVENUE UP 29.4% (£m)
’06 ’05 ’04 ’03
1,842 1,849
2,355
3,046
We maintain a private 
company mentality when 
it comes to investment 
and growth opportunities Key targets
More recently, as telecoms markets have become
liberalised, we have recognised the potential for selling
fixed line services over the counter. In the UK, within
three years we have built a business in TalkTalk that
has a realistic opportunity to be the number one
alternative home telecoms provider in the UK, as 
I highlight below. But we are also now adding value 
in six other markets through selling fixed line services
in store to enhance our recurring revenue platform. 
One of our strategic challenges over the next two
years is to respond to the changes in market structure
that regulation is stimulating in each of these markets,
to ensure that we have the most appropriate business
model in place. For example, in some markets
customer spend is sufficiently high that we can
continue to be a pure reseller (with none of our own
network infrastructure) and still make an attractive
return. In other markets we may be better off simply
taking a commission from selling another provider’s
service than packaging our own. Either way, we 
are generating an incremental income stream from 
a predominantly fixed cost base.
Over the last 12 months we have brought a renewed
focus to our mobile virtual network operations (MVNOs),
where we buy wholesale capacity from mobile network
operators and repackage it under our own brand 
and tariffs. The UK launch of Mobile World, a service
providing market-beating rates for calls to international
destinations from a mobile handset, was very successful,
and we intend to roll out a similar service in a number
of other countries this year. We relaunched Fresh, 
our no-frills proposition, in October 2005, and again
demand exceeded our expectations. Although both
businesses are currently running at a loss, the lifetime
value of customers is greater than the profit on third
party pre-pay sales, making it an area of strategic
importance in the medium term.
Our biggest new initiative in the MVNO business is 
the launch of Virgin Mobile in France, a joint venture
between Carphone Warehouse and the Virgin Group.
We believe that the French market offers us a
significant opportunity to build a valuable business,
combining the strength of the Virgin brand with 
our own store network and market expertise. The
venture will make losses in the short term as we 
invest aggressively in growing scale, but we expect 
it to generate material incremental profits in the 
longer term.
43.0% over the last three years. The Online channel
remains a significant opportunity in other markets,
which as yet we have not succeeded in grasping. 
The franchise platform now extends to 140 stores 
out of the total portfolio of 1,778.
Both of these channels complement the core Retail
chain by increasing our overall scale. As our market
share grows in each territory we carry greater weight
with the network operators and our terms improve,
allowing us to stimulate volume growth through
investment in the customer proposition. At the same
time, our handset purchasing power continues to
increase. Importantly, we are increasingly seeking 
to differentiate our proposition through a focus on
handset range and availability. While price is clearly a
valuable benefit of scale, our ability to source exclusive
handsets or work in partnership with vendors to
develop new products will, we believe, be a more
significant driver of the business going forward. Our
ground-breaking deal with Motorola on the pink V3
over Christmas 2005 was a clear example of this
power and innovation.
Looking forward, we plan to open a further 250 stores
this year. Even in the UK, where we now have 669
stores, we continue to generate an excellent return on
our investment in new space. This gives us confidence
in our ability to grow our Retail presence and market
share across all our markets.
Maximising customer lifetime value
There are two core factors behind our focus on
customer lifetime value. Firstly, the consultative 
nature of our interaction with customers allows us 
to introduce additional products and services into the
sales mix, generating a significantly enhanced overall
return on our store investment. Secondly, the recurring
nature of these additional services improves the quality
and visibility of Group earnings.
Historically the main avenue for additional profits
beyond the point of sale has been through our
Insurance service. Ten years since its inception, we
have built it up into a business with nearly two million
customers, revenues of £116.1m and contribution 
of £45.5m. This service owes much to our stores and
our relationship with customers, and is the most
tangible evidence of our ability to leverage our retail
asset to deliver additional value to customers 
and shareholders alike.
Chief Executive’s Review continued www.cpwplc.com 5
10%
MARKET SHARE OF
MOBILE PHONE MARKET
3.5m
TALKTALK UK CUSTOMERS 
BY MARCH 2009 
1m
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
CUSTOMERS BY MARCH 2009  Becoming the leading alternative fixed line 
provider in the UK
We have set our UK fixed line operations a bold
objective but one that we believe, with the combination
of assets that we have at our disposal, is achievable:
to become the leading alternative fixed line provider.
Four years ago, we had no presence in the fixed line
market. Through the combination of acquisitions and
strong organic growth, we have built a business that
now has a 10% share of the residential market for 
voice calls and is the clear number three operator. The
highlights of the year were our acquisitions of Onetel
and Tele2 UK, two of our biggest competitors in the
Carrier Pre-Select (CPS) market, which not only took our
combined customer base to 2.6m at the year end but
also underlined the success of our own business model. 
We have always maintained that the ability to recruit
customers through our store base has given us 
a much lower overall cost of customer acquisition, 
and our ownership of a highly efficient voice network 
in Opal has allowed us to generate an attractive and
sustainable margin on our tariffs. These deals
demonstrate that our strategy to date has been the
right one, and we expect the combined residential CPS
businesses to deliver a contribution of approximately
£50m in the coming year. A key goal this year will be 
to sell line rental as well as voice services to as many of
our customers as possible. While there is no additional
margin in the wholesale line rental product, it does
serve to strengthen the customer relationship. We aim
to have 60% of our CPS customers on our own line
rental service by March 2007.
The most important development of the last 12 months
has been the establishment by the regulator, Ofcom,
of a structure for the industry that encourages
infrastructure-based competition on a level playing
field. As a result, we have announced plans to invest
in local loop unbundling, a process that allows us to
install our own exchange equipment on BT’s premises,
and take over the copper wire between a customer’s
house and the local exchange at fair rates. 
On 11 April 2006, we were pleased to announce 
our new proposition: TalkTalk broadband for free, for
customers who take our line rental and Talk 3 calls
package. This offer has re-priced the broadband
market in the UK, undercutting similar bundled tariffs
from competitors by up to 60%. Our approach has
6
Smart
methodologies
driving improved
performance
INVESTMENT
Our long-term approach to investment creates
sustainable competitive advantage in our
chosen markets. Investment is not just about
capex – although our commitment to store
openings and exchange unbundling is
significant – it is also about marketing, 
brand-building and customer recruitment.
PROPOSITION
We are absolutely committed to delivering
value to customers across all our services.
Investment in the right platforms is key to 
our ability to develop a compelling customer
proposition, as it allows us to build scale 
and offer greater value.
SCALE
We aim to be a mass market provider in our
major business lines by driving for volume
ahead of margin. We then use our increased
presence in the market to improve our supplier
terms and reinvest these benefits in the
customer proposition.
EFFICIENCY
Scale also creates significant efficiencies for
our business, through leveraging our fixed cost
store base and telecoms infrastructure. We
seek to maintain our competitive advantage 
by continued investment across the business. % OF CONTRIBUTION FROM
RECURRING REVENUES* 
(% OF TOTAL)
’06 ’05 ’04 ’03
49.7
57.6
59.4 59.7
CONTRIBUTION FROM 
RECURRING REVENUES* 
UP 32.4% (£m)
’06 ’05 ’04 ’03
77.1
121.4
161.2
213.5
in sales and gross profit, but the strong trading
performance of the last two years creates ever higher
hurdles to clear. Growth in Ongoing (our ARPU sharing
agreements with networks) and Insurance will continue
to be driven by subscription connections.
On the fixed line side, the progress of the new
broadband proposition from TalkTalk will be crucial to
enhancing the long-term value of the Group. The outlook
is promising and the early customer take-up has far
exceeded our expectations, but we expect a more
concerted competitive response from other industry
players as the year progresses, and the major risks of
this new initiative lie in our ability to execute successfully.
In our MVNO operations we expect a year of intensive
customer recruitment as we build a business to 
deliver meaningful profitability in the future. Our
German service provision business, The Phone 
House Telecom, is already highly profitable, and we 
will continue to add customers to the base here, too.
However, profits are likely to be flat year-on-year, as
the amortisation of subscriber acquisition costs is
forecast to rise on the back of the strong subscriber
push of the last two years.
A strong corporate culture has always been a vital 
part of Carphone Warehouse’s success, and it is 
to the credit of all of our employees that this has 
been maintained during a period of high growth and
expansion. We have made significant demands of
everyone across the business this year and the
response has been uniformly positive. With the
acquisitions and our own organic growth, I am
delighted to welcome a further 3,000 people to 
the Group in the last 12 months, and the rate of
recruitment shows no sign of abating given the
opportunities ahead of us. We are lucky to have 
such a dedicated and talented workforce and 
I would like to say thank you to all of them for 
their continued efforts.
been totally consistent with our retail strategy: to favour
volume over margin, and pass on the benefits of scale
and investment to our customers. This is particularly
true in local loop unbundling, where the investment
profile favours those who are able to take significant
market share. The costs in the short-term will be
significant, with an estimated operating loss from the
project in the current year of £50m, and a cash outflow
of £110m. However, we are confident that the long
term economics of the business are highly attractive.
We have set an initial target of 3.5m residential
telecoms customers by March 2009, of which we
anticipate over half will be on the new bundled
package. Our focus now is on successful execution:
installing our equipment in BT’s exchanges as rapidly
as possible, building up call centre capacity and
expertise, and closely managing the process for
migrating customers from BT’s platform onto our own.
Importantly, our investment in infrastructure stands to
benefit our business-to-business telecoms operations
as well. We have a significant overlap between our
business and residential customers, thus giving us 
two opportunities to generate a good return on our
investment. Opal’s background is one of voice services
into businesses, but with an unbundled platform we
believe that there is a sizeable opportunity to sell data
services into the corporate market. Our plans in this
respect will evolve over the next 12 months.
Outlook
These are exciting times for Carphone Warehouse.
Prospects for the Distribution division are good. 
Mobile networks continue to compete aggressively 
for customers, stimulating the replacement cycle with
lower prices and better tariffs. The market is also
becoming more fragmented, with MVNOs increasingly
prevalent and adding to the breadth of choice available
to customers. Handset manufacturers are more active
than ever, and are now innovating in fashion and
design as much as in technology and functionality.
As outlined above, we will seek to take advantage of
these attractive market conditions through further rapid
expansion of our store base and the development 
of additional distribution channels. Our guidance of
15% growth in mobile connections for the coming 
year reflects the overall growth in our store portfolio. 
As always, we will strive to generate growth in
connections per store to drive like-for-like growth 
Chief Executive’s Review continued www.cpwplc.com 7
Charles Dunstone, Chief Executive Officer
FASHION BECOMING A KEY
HANDSET MARKET DRIVER
BROADBAND CUSTOMER 
TAKE-UP HAS FAR EXCEEDED
OUR EXPECTATIONS
STRONG CORPORATE CULTURE
A VITAL PART OF OUR SUCCESS
*Periods prior to 2004/05 
restated for comparability Performance Update
What we said we’d do in 200
5
Retail and Online
• Open 2
5
0 new stores
• Invest in training and refurbishment
• Continue to drive growth in subscription connections
• Integrate recent Online acquisitions and pursue
aggressive growth in UK
• Develop non-UK Online operations
Insurance
• Grow the customer base
• Continue to improve service efficiency 
through internal investment
Ongoing
• Grow Ongoing revenue by 20% through further 
growth in subscription connections and focus 
on network terms
How we performed
• 
3
1
7
new stores opened
• 
3
00 stores refurbished
• 
5
2 week subscription connections up 2
3
.6%
• Acquisitions successfully integrated
• 
5
2 week Online connections growth 61.
7
%
• Limited progress on non-UK Online operations
• Customer base up 16.
7
%
• High tier base up 2
4
.1%
• Launch of IMACS, new database management tool 
• Ongoing revenue up 2
5
.6%, in line with 
subscriptions growth
Our 2006/
7
objectives
• Open a further 2
5
0 new stores
• Differentiate proposition through handset range
• Continue to drive growth in 
subscription connections
• Continue to explore non-UK Online opportunities
• Further base growth
• Improve penetration with new products
• Revenue growth of 1
5
-20%
Our 2006/
7
objectives
• Further growth in subscription base
• Stabilisation of ARPU trend through focus 
on higher quality channels
• Launch Mobile World in other markets
• Refine Fresh proposition to maximise customer
lifetime values
• Build towards target of 1m Virgin Mobile
customers within 
3
years
• Focus on local loop unbundling programme 
to hit target of 1,000 exchanges by May 200
7
• Leverage LLU platform to build corporate
broadband products
• Build on initial TalkTalk Business success
• Focus on rapid recruitment of 
broadband customers
• Manage the successful migration of 
customers onto unbundled lines
• Complete integration of Onetel acquisition
• Raise line rental penetration on voice 
customer base to 60%
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 2006 8
Distribution Division
What we said we’d do in 200
5
Mobile – Service Provision
• Grow our market share
• Explore new distribution channels
Mobile – Other Operations
• Grow base of customers under management
• Diversify our MVNO offerings
Fixed – Business
• Launch mobile and broadband services
• Develop data products
• Explore new market segments
Fixed – Residential
• Continue to recruit new customers in all markets
• Refine UK broadband proposition and launch line
rental product
How we performed
• Customer base grew 
3
0.0% to 1.2m
• Launched several new distribution channels, 
although quality of new customers was mixed
• UK FM base rose 2
5
.2% but Vodafone 
contract expiring next year
• Successful introduction of Mobile World and 
relaunch of Fresh
• Virgin Mobile France launched after year end
• Good progress with mobile services
• No material headway made on broadband 
and data services
• Successful launch of TalkTalk Business to address 
the small business market
• 2.6m UK customers – 10% market share – through
organic growth and acquisitions
• Non-UK base doubled to 
34
1,000
• 28% of base on line rental
• Announcement of broadband proposition 
after year end
Telecoms Services Division 
