 Chief Executive’s Review
This has been another successful year for Carphone
Warehouse, but we faced significant challenges
along the way. Group revenues are up 31.0%, we
have executed very well in our Retail business and
increased our market share, and we have made
significant progress towards our goal of becoming
the leading alternative fixed line telecoms provider 
in the UK. The launch of Free Broadband changed
the face of the UK broadband market forever, but
created its own problems: the unexpected level 
of demand, combined with the complexity of the
provisioning processes, led to significant customer
service issues.
Last year I underlined our “private company” approach
to investment and growth opportunities. While every
project needs to be ﬁnancially justiﬁed and we have
rigorous hurdle rates for new investment, we tend to
take the long view. As a result, earnings in the short
term can be depressed by our pursuit of long-term
value creation. In such circumstances it is our
responsibility to communicate the scale, timing and
impact of new business initiatives so that investors 
can make informed decisions.
This has never been more true than in the past 
12 months. We have incurred start-up losses of over
£80m in our launch of Free Broadband and Virgin
Mobile in France. Our total cash commitment in the year
to these new initiatives, and the acquisition of AOL’s UK
customer base, has been nearly £400m. As we manage
the path to proﬁtability and cash generation in these
businesses, we are already committing to a further
exciting growth project, with the roll-out of our retail joint
venture in the US and Geek Squad in the UK. No doubt
further opportunities will arise, and we will continue to
pursue them with commitment and conviction.
Strategic context
Our strategic approach is built on three 
primary objectives:
• To continue to grow market share in all our
geographical markets, by investing in new store
openings, achieving increasing productivity from 
our existing estate, and developing additional
distribution channels;
• To maximise the lifetime value of our customers, both
by providing a level of service that encourages repeat
business, and by identifying relevant new products
and services where our brand, service and
distribution give us an edge over other suppliers; and
• To become the leading alternative provider of ﬁxed
line telecommunications services in the UK.
Through organic growth and acquisition, we have built
up a unique set of assets: a network of stores that act
as the focal point of our interaction with customers,
both mobile and ﬁxed line; a comprehensive ﬁxed line
telecoms network covering the whole of the UK, with
investment focused on areas of added value; and
signiﬁcant customer bases, creating valuable annuity
revenue streams to improve the quality of our
earnings. Our strategic objectives aim to leverage
these assets to deliver long-term growth and value
creation to shareholders.
Growing our retail presence
There are two key factors supporting our strategy to
grow our retail presence. Firstly, we believe that we 
are under-penetrated in almost all of our geographical
markets, and the dynamics of the industry continue to
be attractive. Secondly, as our market share increases,
our scale delivers operational beneﬁts through
improving terms with network operators and handset
manufacturers alike. Our model of reinvesting these
beneﬁts into the customer proposition, through better
pricing and improved range and availability of
handsets, serves both to defend our market position
by raising the barriers to entry, and to deliver
incremental growth and scale.
This year we have opened 366 net new stores across
our ten markets, taking the total portfolio to 2,144. Over
the last three years we have opened 930 stores and
grown the estate by 76.6%. During the same period,
connections are up 87.2%, demonstrating our ability 
to generate continued growth out of existing sites.
We generated retail like-for-like gross proﬁt growth 
of 5.0% during the period, as the handset market
showed further growth, and we took market share
through our focus on the widest range of handsets
and the best availability on the high street. After last
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 7
4
The key drivers of the
Distribution division – network
appetite for customers, a
vibrant handset market, and
our own physical expansion –
all remain firmly in place
Revenue up 31.0%
(£m) 
1,849
2,355
3,046
3,991
04 05 06 07
Headline operating profit
up 5.4% 
(£m) 
81.1
105.2
141.8
149.5
04 05 06 07 Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements
Looking forward, we plan to marry physical
expansion with an increased focus on
productivity from our existing estate
allowing seamless connectivity across multiple
platforms and locations. They want their computer to
talk to their television, and to be able to control both
from their mobile device while away from home.
We sell most of the “nuts and bolts” today – mobile
contracts, high-speed data cards, broadband, hand-
held e-mail devices; some of these are our own
products, most of them are third party. Our job will be
to set our customers up with the most appropriate
suite of services and make sure that it all works. The
stores, as ever, will be the primary point of distribution,
but Geek Squad will become an integral part of our
overall value proposition. 
Geek Squad, launched with our partners Best Buy, is
a home technology troubleshooting service, developed
to address the increasing technological complexity of
people’s lives. It will allow us to add signiﬁcant value 
to customers by making technology work for them,
and to our network partners by tying their individual
products and services into a uniﬁed package.
To support the broadening of our proposition, 
which will include the sale of an increasing range 
of non-cellular communications products, we are
embarking on a programme of reﬁts and relocations
across a range of our larger stores in prime locations.
We will update investors with progress as our new
strategy evolves. 
Becoming the leading alternative fixed line provider 
in the UK
Nearly ﬁve years ago, when we acquired Opal Telecom
in November 2002, we set ourselves the ambitious goal
of becoming the number one alternative ﬁxed line
telecoms provider in the UK. We believed that the
combination of high consumer prices, a high incumbent
market share, meaningful regulatory change and our
own unique distribution network was a powerful one;
the network infrastructure and telco know-how we
acquired with Opal completed the jigsaw.
Today, through a combination of strong organic growth
and judicious acquisitions, we have over 10% of the
residential telephony market and approximately 16% 
of the broadband market. After the very signiﬁcant
strides we have made this year, our bold objective 
is now clearly within reach.
During the year we made three notable steps forward
and one step back. We announced in November 2005
our plans to invest in local loop unbundling (“LLU”) – 
a process in which we install our own exchange
year’s success with the exclusive pink Motorola V3,
this was a particularly creditable performance achieved
across a range of unique handsets rather than from a
single blockbuster product.
During the year we entered our ﬁrst new market for
over seven years through our link-up in the US with
Best Buy. After a successful trial we are excited about
the rapid roll-out plans and the opportunity to
introduce US consumers to the independent mobile
retail model. Best Buy is the ideal partner and the
relationship between us is highly complementary.
Looking forward, we plan to marry physical expansion
with an increased focus on productivity from our
existing estate. Excluding the US, we see opportunities
to open a further 200-250 stores a year for the next
three years. Just as importantly, we are revisiting
existing sites and assessing the need for additional
headcount and points of sale as we seek to convert
more of our footfall into business. We also have the
opportunity to re-site stores in many major centres
where we have outgrown our current footprint.
Maximising customer lifetime value
We have been focused on maximising customer
lifetime value for almost as long as Carphone
Warehouse has existed. Generating enhanced 
value for our network partners and loyalty from our
customers comes not just from providing high quality
consultancy at the point of sale, but supporting
customers through the product life-cycle.
Over the years we have been very successful at
introducing new services into our retail offering, with
our Insurance and Fixed Line services being the 
most obvious and successful. However, the quality 
of our customer interaction is often demonstrated 
in less quantiﬁable ways – for example, through our
investment in new store formats or our commitment 
to live product demonstrations. What all of these
developments have in common, though, is that they
meet the changing needs of the marketplace and
reﬂect Carphone Warehouse’s ongoing ability to renew
its business model in response to the prevailing
opportunities and risks.
Today, as wireless technologies become more
pervasive and our customers increasingly want 
more from us than choice, availability and advice on 
a simple mobile contract, we are beginning to adapt
our proposition once more. Customers – and our
network partners – will want integrated solutions,
5
10%
market share of
mobile phone market
3.5m
Broadband customers 
by March 2010 
1m
Virgin Mobile France
customers by March 2009 
www.cpwplc.com
KEY TARGETS Chief Executive’s Review continued
equipment within BT’s exchange network, enabling 
us to take control of the copper wire (or “local loop”)
that connects customers’ houses with their local
exchange. OFCOM, the UK telecoms regulator, had
just ﬁnalised its market review, which ﬁnally gave
visibility and certainty to LLU. Its attractions for a
telecoms service provider are that it allows us to
provide calls, line rental and broadband services 
to our customers at a much lower cost price than 
BT’s wholesale product suite.
In April 2006 we announced a revolutionary new
service, TalkTalk Free Broadband, giving free
broadband connectivity to customers who sign up 
for our calls and line rental package. At the same time,
we announced a rapid acceleration of our LLU roll-out,
aiming to unbundle 1,000 exchanges over the following
14 months. Demand for the new proposition has been
exceptional, and by March 2007 we had signed up
655,000 live customers. In addition, our engineers at
Carphone Warehouse Networks, the re-branded Opal
network team, completed all of our planned equipment
installation well ahead of schedule, with 1,024
exchanges live by the end of the ﬁnancial year.
Broadband via LLU is a scale game, with unit costs
falling with every additional customer connected to 
an unbundled exchange. As a result, we were
delighted to acquire the customer base of AOL in 
the UK in December 2006. This immediately took 
our market share to around 16%, and gives us the
scale we need to ensure a signiﬁcant payback on 
our infrastructure investment. In addition, we now
operate with two differentiated brands, allowing us 
to address two distinct and valuable segments of 
the broadband marketplace.
The one ﬂat note to our broadband launch has been
the impact on customer service levels resulting from
the very strong demand we generated. For much of
the year we were slow to answer calls in our contact
centres and failed to resolve enough of our customers’
problems ﬁrst time around. This inevitably led to 
a poor customer experience and our fair share of
negative publicity. We continue to invest substantially
in improving the provisioning process and providing
high quality support, and are conﬁdent that as the 
new ﬁnancial year progresses, we will begin to make
customer service a positive differentiator for the
TalkTalk brand.
Outlook
The outlook for the Group remains positive. The key
drivers of the Distribution division – network appetite
for customers, a vibrant handset market, and our own
physical expansion – all remain ﬁrmly in place. As our
strategy evolves, we believe that our opportunities for
growth in the medium term are increasing, both
through the development of our wireless solutions
model, and through the Geek Squad and Best Buy
Mobile ventures. Our ability to achieve continued
growth in sales and proﬁtability stems in no small part
from our historical success in adapting the business
model to address the opportunities and challenges of
a dynamic market.
Physical expansion and market share gains remain at
the heart of our strategy, and we plan to open a
further 250 stores this year, in addition to the US roll-
out. Our market share in continental Europe still lags
our UK share, which itself continues to grow: there is
no structural reason why, in time, our market shares
across most of our European markets cannot reach
the 20% level.
We are targeting 15% growth in subscription
connections, a little ahead of our planned space
growth, as we anticipate further growth in this higher
value part of the market and invest in improved store
productivity. The pre-pay market is quieter, after 
18 months of very signiﬁcant growth, and we expect
this to be reﬂected in our own pre-pay connections
growth during the year. We expect gross proﬁt per
connection, an important KPI for the business, on both
subscription and pre-pay to be stable year-on-year.
Our Ongoing and Insurance revenue streams, key
components of customer lifetime value driven by
subscription connections, are set to rise in line with
mobile subscriptions growth. Progress in our Mobile
businesses will be steady, as our German service
provision business continues to increase customer
numbers, revenues and proﬁts, and our MVNO
operations across Europe start to come out of 
their launch phases.
In our UK Fixed Line operations, our broadband and
unbundling strategy will begin to bear fruit, as margins
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 7
6
The launch of Free Broadband
changed the face of the UK
broadband market forever
Contribution from recurring 
revenues up 28.9%
(£m) 
121.4
161.2
213.5
275.1
04 05 06 07
% of contribution from 
recurring revenues
(% of total) 
57.6
59.4 59.7
62.2
04 05 06 07 ARPU
Average revenue per user: applies to both 
mobile and ﬁxed line customers. Usually 
quoted as a monthly ﬁgure.
Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements
improve dramatically with the migration of customers
to our own network and the integration of the AOL
customer base. Meanwhile, we will continue to invest
in expanding and deepening our network and growing
the customer base towards our target of 3.5m
broadband customers by March 2010. We are
absolutely focused on improving operational execution
and customer service and while we are encouraged 
by the progress we are making in these areas, there 
is much more we can and will do.
Launching Free Broadband has been the hardest thing
I’ve ever done in business, and it’s been hard for all of
our employees – in the stores, in the contact centres
and in management and support functions. All of us
share one goal – to service all our customers properly
and make TalkTalk a business we can be proud of,
with a reputation for quality and service that The
Carphone Warehouse and The Phone House already
rightly enjoy. Once again I would like to thank everyone
across the whole Group for their continued efforts. 
Charles Dunstone, 
Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
7
GLOSSARY
CPS
Carrier Pre Selection: the platform on which
TalkTalk has grown to date, whereby calls are
switched from BT onto an alternate service
provider’s network at the local exchange level.
ISP
Internet Service Provider: company providing
internet access.
LLU
Local Loop Unbundling: process that allows other
operators access to BT’s local loop, by installing
equipment in BT’s exchanges and physically
moving over a customer’s line.
Local loop
The copper wire that connects houses to the 
BT local exchange network.
Migration
The process of moving a customer from BT’s
wholesale products onto our own unbundled lines.
MVNO
Mobile Virtual Network Operator: a mobile service
provider with no network infrastructure of its own,
that “piggybacks” off a network operator at 
a commercially-negotiated wholesale rate.
OFCOM
The UK regulatory body for the telecoms and
media industries.
Openreach
The access services division of BT, responsible
for delivering equivalence of service on a range 
of access products. The result of the regulatory
settlement between BT and OFCOM.
www.cpwplc.com 200
7
Performance Update Our Strategy
The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC Annual Report 200 7
8
OUR VIRTUOUS CIRCLE OF PERFORMANCE
Investment
Our long-term approach to investment creates sustainable competitive
advantage in our chosen markets. Investment is not just about
capex – although our commitment to store openings and exchange
unbundling is signiﬁcant – it is also about marketing, brand-building
and customer recruitment.
Scale
We aim to be a mass market provider in our major business lines by
driving for volume ahead of margin. We then use our increased
presence in the market to improve our supplier terms and reinvest
these beneﬁts in the customer proposition.
Efficiency
Scale also creates signiﬁcant efﬁciencies for our business, through
leveraging our ﬁxed cost store base and telecoms infrastructure. We
seek to maintain our competitive advantage by continued investment
across the business.
Proposition
We are absolutely committed to delivering value to customers across 
all our services. Investment in the right platforms is key to our ability to
develop a compelling customer proposition, as it allows us to build
scale, and offer greater value and an improved customer experience.
   INVESTMENT                          SCALE        
 PROPOSITION                     EFFICIENCY                                     
OUR OPERATIONS WHAT WE SAID WE’D DO IN 2006/07
Retail and Online
• Open a further 250 new stores
• Differentiate proposition through
handset range
• Continue to drive growth in
subscription connections 
• Continue to explore non-UK
Online opportunities
Insurance
• Further base growth
• Improve penetration with 
new products 
Ongoing
• Revenue growth of 15-20%
Distribution division
OUR OPERATIONS WHAT WE SAID WE’D DO IN 2006/07
Mobile – 
Service Provision
• Further growth in 
subscription base
• Stabilisation of ARPU trend
through focus on higher 
quality channels
Mobile – 
Other Operations
• Launch Mobile World in 
other markets
• Reﬁne Fresh proposition 
to maximise customer 
lifetime values
• Build towards target of 1m
Virgin Mobile customers 
within 3 years
Fixed – 
Business
• Focus on local loop unbundling
programme to hit target of
1,000 exchanges by May 2007
• Leverage LLU platform to build
corporate broadband products
• Build on initial TalkTalk 
Business success
Fixed –
Residential
• Focus on rapid recruitment of
broadband customers
• Manage the successful
migration of customers onto
unbundled lines
• Complete integration of 
Onetel acquisition
• Raise line rental penetration on
voice customer base to 60%
Telecoms Services division Highlights and Strategy Business Review Governance Financial Statements
9
HOW WE PERFORMED OUR 2007/08 OBJECTIVES
• 366 new stores opened
• 150 stores refurbished 
• Subscription connections up 17.3%
• Increasing range of exclusive products
• Open a further 250 new stores
• Develop new format wireless solutions stores
• Continue to expand our presence in the US market through 
Best Buy Mobile
• Roll out Geek Squad across the UK
• Customer base up 16.2%
• High tier base up 18.6%
• Revenue growth of 15%
• Ongoing revenue up 22.7% • Revenue growth of 15%
HOW WE PERFORMED OUR 2007/08 OBJECTIVES
• Customer base grew 28.3% to 1.50m
• Some stabilisation of ARPU during the year
• Continued steady growth in revenue, proﬁtability 
and customers
• UK MVNO business moving into proﬁtability
• Virgin Mobile France well on course for 3 year target
• Launch of MVNOs in Spain, Portugal, Switzerland and Belgium
• Continue to build the Virgin Mobile France brand 
and customer base
• Launch contract MVNO in the UK
• Invest in building non-UK MVNO operations
• Reached exchange target by March 2007, two months 
ahead of schedule
• Acquisition of Alto Hiway, B2B ISP , to support development 
of corporate broadband services
• Build out exchange network to 1,650 TalkTalk and 
900 AOL exchanges
• Begin process of unifying network infrastructure to 
a single technological platform
• 2.3m UK customers – 16% market share – through organic 
growth and the AOL acquisition
• Delays in migration process but over 30% of total base unbundled
by year end
• Poor customer service had a negative impact on brand perception
• Onetel integration successful and voice base delivering 
strong proﬁtability
• Complete integration of AOL
• Invest in improved customer service
• 70% of base migrated to LLU by March 2008
www.cpwplc.com
For regular updates on our performance 
visit us at www.cpwplc.com
