 Highlights
 www.cpwplc.com 3
Highlights
Chairman’s Statement
John Gildersleeve, Chairman
 “ ”
The Group’s performance  
has held up well in the  
tough trading conditions –  
a testament to the resilience  
of the model.
It has been a momentous year for the 
Group, as it has been for many enterprises 
worldwide, given the rapid deterioration in 
the global economy. Carphone Warehouse 
has not been immune to these pressures. 
Our customers have been feeling the 
pinch, our suppliers have become less 
profitable, and the currencies in which our 
assets and liabilities are denominated have 
been extremely volatile. However, where 
possible we have continued to focus on 
our long-term goals: to build market share, 
to remain relevant to customers and to 
offer excellent value in everything we do.
Group revenue for the period was down 
3% to £1,385m (2008: £1,424m). Both of 
these figures exclude Best Buy Europe  
to make comparability easier. Following 
the transaction with Best Buy at the end 
of June 2008, the results of the Group’s 
retail and distribution business are shown 
net of interest and tax within joint 
ventures and associates. Results for  
the first quarter and for 2007-08 are 
shown as discontinued operations,  
again net of interest and tax. Best Buy 
Europe revenue was up 15% to £3,563m, 
reflecting significant market share gains 
and a stronger Euro. 
At a divisional level, TalkTalk Group 
achieved EBIT of £124m. Whilst 
representing an increase of 80% on  
the previous year (2008: £69m), this  
was some way below our aspirations  
at the start of the year and reflected  
an unexpected slowdown in the rate  
of growth in the broadband market, 
principally as a result of a markedly  
less active housing market.
EBIT at Best Buy Europe fell 33% to 
£101m (2008: £151m) with strong top  
line growth more than offset by margin 
deterioration, caused partly by product 
mix and partly by our own trading 
strategy, which focused on market share 
gains in a weaker handset market. 
Headline earnings per share fell 18% to 
12.6p (2008: 15.2p). Statutory earnings 
per share, after exceptional items and 
amortisation of acquisition intangibles, 
increased from 8.1p in the prior year to 
61.6p, reflecting the substantial gain on 
the transaction with Best Buy during the 
year. The Board is proposing a final 
dividend of 3.00p (2008: 3.00p), taking the 
total for the year to 4.35p (2008: 4.25p).
While profitability has suffered against  
a backdrop of a very harsh environment,  
I am pleased to be able to report on 
some areas of substantial progress  
for the Group. The deal with Best Buy, 
completed in June 2008, brought our 
retail operations together with the 
acknowledged global leader in consumer 
electronics retailing. Together we are 
confident of not only refreshing our 
existing retail proposition to deliver the 
“Connected World” to customers, but 
also building a substantial Big Box 
consumer electronics retail business in 
Europe. It also enabled us to pay off the 
large majority of our underlying bank 
borrowings, leaving us with a very strong 
balance sheet.
We have been using this financial strength 
to trade aggressively on the high street, 
accepting lower margins in return for 
sustained top line growth and burgeoning 
market share in a more depressed mobile 
phone market. Our increasing market 
presence will allow us to start to rebuild 
margins as volumes recover.
Within the TalkTalk Group, the service 
problems of a couple of years ago have 
been all but eradicated and we are now 
beginning to be recognised for good 
service as well as outstanding value. 
During the year we have focused on 
making our network even more robust 
and putting in place the additional 
capacity required to exceed our 
customers’ growing usage needs.  
After six years of heavy investment,  
the business is now set to generate 
significant amounts of cash. 
Despite the tough times, morale is high: 
our internal employee surveys are 
showing very positive readings and our 
people are excited about our plans for the 
businesses. It can be a challenge to feel 
motivated during times of such great 
uncertainty but our employees have really 
risen to the challenge and I would like to 
thank them on behalf of the Board for their 
continued efforts.
