 05
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement
This has been a good year for Carphone Warehouse. Financially, 
we have delivered on the guidance we gave; operationally, we have 
strengthened our business and growth platform; and strategically, 
we are proposing a merger of equals with Dixons Retail plc to add 
substantially to our growth potential going forward and to capture 
the opportunities of a changing marketplace. 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
We completed our buy-back of Best Buy’s 50% share in CPW Europe 
on 26 June 2013. Consequently, in order to give a more meaningful 
picture of our performance, we have provided the results for CPW 
on a pro forma basis, as if CPW Europe had been 100% owned 
by the Group for the whole of 2013–14 and the previous year. 
On a top line basis, total pro forma revenue dropped 2% to £3,282m 
compared to £3,348m in 2012–13. This primarily reflects decreased 
activity in our dealer business, which was particularly strong in the 
prior year. However, our dealer business operates at low margins 
and has little impact on the overall profitability of the business.
Within this performance, we saw like-for-like revenue growth for 
the full year of 5.3%, building on the 4.6% growth in the prior year, 
predominantly driven by postpay growth in the UK and a continued 
shift towards high-end smartphones which drive higher revenues.
We delivered pro forma Headline EBIT of £151m (2013: £132m), an 
increase of 14% year-on-year, and in line with the guidance we gave 
a year ago. Improved pro forma EBIT in CPW, along with the benefits 
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe from 26 June 2013, resulted in 
an increase in Group Headline net earnings from £55m to £102m 
and an increase in Headline EPS to 18.4p (2013: 11.6p).
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
PAGES 20-24
CPW
Our retail operation enjoyed a good year with like-for-like revenue 
growth of 5.3%, despite the continued sharp reduction in the prepay 
market, reflecting the regulatory cuts in mobile termination rates 
and the consequent withdrawal by network operators of subsidies 
on prepay handsets. While the fall in prepay connections reduced 
overall total connections, both for us and for the market in general, 
we held our prepay market share.
More important for us has been the strength of our postpay sales, 
on which we have again grown our UK market share. We have been 
particularly encouraged by the uptake of 4G phones, with 4G now a 
major new dynamic in the mobile marketplace. The speed of 4G has 
a significant impact on data usage, and the sale of 4G devices typically 
brings with it additional data packages, the result of which is an 
overall increase in the average revenue per user and therefore 
the revenues we earn.
4G is a very clear example of the way that technology is becoming 
more complicated, with an increasingly wide choice of new devices 
and 4G tariffs. Our customers are looking for simple, independent 
and impartial advice to simplify technology for them and to ensure 
they have the right solution for their needs; providing this is our 
primary purpose.
During the last year we invested significantly in our brand and in our 
distribution channels. We introduced a new tablet-based assisted 
sales tool called Pin Point. This gives our customers a personalised 
experience, guiding them through the overwhelming variety of devices, 
networks, tariffs and services, to find the most suitable package 
to meet their needs. Pin Point has been rolled out throughout our 
stores in the UK and has resulted in our highest levels of customer 
satisfaction and customers’ willingness to recommend us to others. 
Pin Point was acknowledged through the BT Retail Week Technology 
Awards, for the Customer Experience Technology Award of the year 
for 2014.
IN SUMMARY
 + Pro forma Headline EBIT of £151m (2013: £132m)
 + Like-for-like revenue growth of 5.3%; second 
consecutive year of growth
 + Significant gains in UK postpay market share, 
building on growth in 2012–13
 + Signed partnership agreements with Media-Markt 
Saturn in the Netherlands, and Harvey Norman in Ireland
 + Significant progress for Connected World Services, 
most notably through preferred-partner agreement 
with Samsung and the development of our omni-channel 
platform, honeyBee, with Accenture
 + Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc 
expected to deliver synergies of £80m in the financial 
year 2017–18
IT'S ALL ABOUT POSITIONING OUR 
BUSINESS IN THIS CHANGING WORLD 
AND ENSURING THAT WHAT WE DO IS
RELEVANT FOR 
OUR CUSTOMERS
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 06
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive Officer’s statement continued
CPW continued
All retailers are affected by the growth of the internet and online 
shopping. We have adapted our business accordingly and are a true 
multi-channel retailer. The number of visitors to our website last 
year was a record, in particular around Christmas. Whilst the majority 
of mobile shoppers conduct their research online, our retail channels 
continue to remain the key part of the mobile phone purchase journey. 
Customers generally want to see and hold the device, ensure they 
understand its functionality, transfer their contacts and leave the 
store with their phone working. 
Our growth last year was the result of strong performances 
in countries such as the UK, Ireland and Spain, balanced by challenges 
in some of our Mainland European markets. In the Netherlands, 
we experienced a weak consumer market, while in Germany, our 
performance was affected by challenges in the wholesale market. 
However, we are encouraged by other business ventures in both of 
these markets, such as partnership opportunities in the Netherlands 
and a growing connections services business in Germany.
The exit process from the French retail market is now substantially 
complete, and we are delighted to have been able to transfer the 
majority of our employees to third parties as part of this process. 
The costs of exit, together with French operating losses, have been 
recorded as non-Headline items, along with net costs associated 
with the CPW Europe Acquisition and the amortisation of acquisition 
intangibles which arose on the transaction. Including these items, 
statutory earnings for the year are £48m (2013: £4m).
EUROPEAN PARTNERSHIPS
Our European partnerships are helping us to gain scale and grow 
value within our existing markets. In the Netherlands we concluded 
our partnership with Media-Markt Saturn and are on track to complete 
the roll-out of our store-in-store format across their estate by the 
end of September 2014.
In Germany we have made good progress developing our 
relationship with the Metro Group and continue to work with 
them on a more tailored B2B offering.
In Ireland, we completed the roll-out of stores within all 12 
Harvey Norman stores.
Discussions continue with Media-Markt Saturn and with other 
partners across targeted territories and we believe that these 
partnerships offer a mutually beneficial way of expanding the 
sales of connected products and services.
CONNECTED WORLD SERVICES
Connected World Services is our growing B2B business, which 
aims to leverage our core expertise and systems to provide a range 
of services to third parties, as set out on pages 12 to 13 of this 
annual report.
Connected World Services was established around 18 months ago 
and has made real progress during the year. In partnership with 
Accenture, we have developed our omni-channel platform, honeyBee. 
We have been extremely encouraged by the initial response from 
manufacturers, networks and retailers across the globe to the wide 
range of expertise and services that CPW can provide. We entered 
into a preferred-partner agreement to operate Samsung Experience 
Stores in Europe, and we have now opened 33 Samsung stores 
in seven countries. 
Over time, we see Connected World Services as a means to take 
Carphone Warehouse global, in a low-risk way, with limited 
demands on capital expenditure. 
VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE
In a very tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France delivered 
a resilient performance, substantially maintaining its contract 
customer base and continuing to migrate this base onto its Full 
MVNO platform. This reflects extremely well on the quality and 
commitment of our French management team.
It was clear to us, however, that Virgin Mobile France’s future would 
be best served by being part of a larger organisation. Subsequent to 
the year end, in May, we and our joint venture partner, Virgin Group, 
together with management shareholders, announced an exclusivity 
agreement for the sale of Virgin Mobile France to Numericable Group.
PROPOSED MERGER
On 15 May 2014, we announced our proposal to merge with Dixons 
Retail plc. The relevant shareholder documents will be made available 
to shareholders for the general meeting to be held on 17 July 2014. 
Subject to shareholder approval, this merger is expected to complete 
in August 2014. 
This is a merger of equals, a merger of complementary organisations 
and a merger for growth. It anticipates the ways in which our 
marketplace is converging and changing, and it positions us to be 
able to take advantage of this. Hardware innovation, mobile broadband 
developments such as 4G, content evolution and cloud-based storage 
have advanced at a rapid pace and are converging to create a 
phenomenon known as the Internet of Things. Having access to the 
Internet of Things, including all the services needed to get working and 
stay working, creates a powerful and compelling story for our customers.
Coming together will give us greater scale and reach, enabling us 
to invest more efficiently in our systems, employees and customer 
proposition, and enhancing our combined relevance for our 
suppliers and network operators alike.
We believe that the combined group will be able to achieve integrated 
mobile retailing and procurement synergies, together with cost savings, 
of at least £80m on a recurring basis, which are expected to be delivered 
in full in the financial year 2017–18.
Lastly, this is a story about growth. We see real opportunities to tap 
into a services market that we feel is ripe with potential. Both of our 
businesses have growing services platforms and the proposed merger 
will enhance opportunities to develop this further for consumers 
and businesses. We are the leading independent European provider 
of connectivity, and Dixons Retail plc is a leading European retailer 
of electrical products. Both of us share a commitment to customer 
service and impartial advice. Put us together and we create a new 
digital retailer for a new digital age.
OUTLOOK
We have worked incredibly hard over the past year, focusing on our 
customer proposition, improving our operational excellence, driving 
4G penetration, forging new partnerships in Europe with leading 
retailers and developing our Connected World Services business. 
I believe all this provides us with significant potential for growth 
over the future years.
We currently face and continue to expect challenges in Mainland 
Europe, but our outlook remains positive.
The history of Carphone Warehouse has been anticipating change 
and positioning the business to take advantage of this change. The 
changes we see in the marketplace offer considerable opportunities to 
create value for our employees, our customers, our partners and our 
shareholders. From a position of strength, we are planning to take 
advantage of these changes through our proposed merger. 
Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer
