 Carphone Warehouse Group plc
Annual Report 2014 04
STRATEGIC REPORT
2014 sees the 25th anniversary since Carphone Warehouse first 
opened for business in 1989. Companies have to constantly adapt 
and change, and our history over the last 25 years has been an 
incredible journey of identifying the challenges and opportunities 
in our fast-changing marketplace, navigating the former and taking 
advantage of the latter. I am immensely proud of our track record 
of doing this. It has kept our business moving forward, thriving 
and generating great returns for our employees, trading partners, 
customers and shareholders. All this is particularly relevant as we 
plan taking the next step in our journey with the proposed merger 
of equals with Dixons Retail plc.
Financially, Carphone Warehouse has had a strong year. We have 
delivered on our guidance, increasing pro forma Headline EBIT from 
£132m to £151m. Improved pro forma EBIT, together with the benefits 
of consolidating 100% of CPW Europe, have resulted in a 59% increase 
in our Headline EPS from 11.6p to 18.4p. Given our overall performance, 
financial strength and prospects, we are delighted to recommend 
a final dividend of 4.00p per share, up 23% on the final dividend for 
2013. This is expected to be paid on 1 August 2014 to shareholders 
on the record as of 11 July 2014 and will bring the full year dividend 
to 6.00p per share, up 20% on 2013.
Strategically and operationally, we have also moved our business on. 
In our UK retail operations, we have significantly enhanced our customer 
service offering through introducing Pin Point, a tablet-based sales 
tool. This has helped drive customer satisfaction to record levels. 
We are also riding the dynamism of 4G. The speed, range of new 
devices, increased data usage and new 4G tariffs have all increased 
our appeal to customers, building on our long-standing reputation 
for impartial advice and value. 
In the tough French marketplace, Virgin Mobile France has again 
proved resilient, retaining value for its shareholders by focusing 
on maintaining its contract customer base and migrating this 
onto a Full MVNO platform. For some while, we have signalled that, 
potentially, Virgin Mobile France could be for sale and, in May 
this year, together with its other shareholders, we announced an 
exclusivity agreement for its proposed sale to Numericable Group.
We have made some key strategic developments in our Connected 
World Services business, including our preferred-partner agreement 
with Samsung to roll out and manage its stores across Europe. 
Connected World Services is our B2B business, in effect exporting 
our systems and expertise to other businesses wanting to build value 
centred around connected devices and services. We see considerable 
potential, over time, for Connected World Services to extend Carphone 
Warehouse into a global organisation, making low demands on capital 
expenditure and management. It is also at the heart of the rationale 
for our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc.
While our marketplace and our business have seen incredible change 
over the past 25 years, at its core, Carphone Warehouse is still doing 
what it originally set out to do – to provide simple, independent, impartial 
advice over a bewildering variety of devices, networks and tariffs, 
and in the process, to simplify complex technology and deliver its 
potential to our customers. As I look ahead, this will continue to be 
the case with our proposed merger with Dixons Retail plc. We know 
the value that can be created by placing Carphone Warehouse stores 
within their outlets. And we are proposing the merger just at the time 
that we are seeing domestic devices and services of all kinds increasingly 
becoming connected. We have a deep respect for each other; we share 
a commitment to customer service; and we wish to create a new 
retailer for a new digital age. I hope to be able to report at our annual 
general meeting that you have separately approved the merger and 
I will feel privileged to be leading the new combined group.
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
IN SUMMARY
 + Proposed all-share merger with Dixons Retail plc
 + Strong set of results from CPW, despite challenging 
conditions in parts of Mainland Europe
 + Key strategic developments with Connected 
World Services
 + Entered exclusivity agreement for proposed 
sale of Virgin Mobile France
 + Recommended final dividend of 4.00p per share 
to be paid on 1 August 2014
COMPANIES HAVE TO CONSTANTLY
ADAPT AND CHANGE
IN ORDER TO GROW
Sir Charles Dunstone Chairman
Chairman’s statement
