 04
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Review by Chris Holmes
In the year ended 28 August 2004, Agriculture and
Engineering improved their results whilst Food’s
operating profit halved in unusually difficult market
conditions for flour. As usual, Agriculture was much
the most important of the three Divisions in terms of
both turnover and profit.
Agriculture
Feed
The Group’s animal feed business comprises the 
UK manufacture of compound feed by Carrs
Billington Agriculture (in association with Edward
Billington & Sons Limited) at Carlisle (Cumbria),
Penrith (Cumbria) and Stone (Staffordshire); and 
the blending of animal feeds at Askrigg (North
Yorkshire) and Kirkbride (Cumbria).
Carrs Billington Agriculture’s compound feed
volumes were well ahead of last year, but margins
were squeezed due to under-recovery of
unprecedented raw material cost increases in 
grain and proteins.
The low-moisture animal feedblock business
comprises the UK manufacture by Caltech at Silloth
(Cumbria) and in the US by Animal Feed
Supplements at Belle Fourche (South Dakota) and
Poteau (Oklahoma).
Caltech’s Crystalyx low-moisture animal feedblock
again increased turnover in both the UK and
Continental Europe. Its Calflyx Easy Breather, 
a new product launched for calves, exceeded all
expectations. Caltech also benefited from the first full
year of molasses being imported into the port at Silloth.
In the USA in 2003, Animal Feed Supplement
benefited from the US Government’s Drought
Assistance Programme, which subsidised feed
supplement products for ranchers in certain states,
thereby achieving a record sales increase in that year
of 29%. In 2004, sales were lower as ranchers used
subsidised stock of Feed in a Drum and Smartlic, 
in particular in the first half of the financial year.
Underlying growth continued to be achieved as new
markets were entered. The strength of the pound
versus the US dollar also had a negative impact on
profit of £0.1 million.
Sales of machinery 
remain strong
throughout the United Kingdom  05
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Fertiliser
Carrs Fertiliser operates three blending sites, at
Invergordon (Easter Ross), Montrose (Angus) and
Silloth (Cumbria), producing a wide range of
fertilisers. 
Following the successful rationalisation of production
facilities with the planned reduction of sales volumes
shedding certain low margin business the
profitability improved to respectable levels. The
investment in Silloth and Montrose to enhance
capacity and efficiency enabled demand to be met 
at the critical time of usage.
Retail
Following the closure in March 2004 of a small
branch at Pitscottie (Fife), Carr’s Retail comprises 
14 branches, from Perth in the north to Leek
(Staffordshire) in the south, selling farm supplies.
Turnover increased by 13%, reflecting the opening in
October 2003 of a larger branch in Cockermouth
(Cumbria), which performed ahead of expectations,
and the addition of new products to the portfolio.
Machinery
Carr’s Machinery distributes new and used
agricultural and groundcare machinery from six of
the retail branches, in the north west of England and
the south west of Scotland. These branches have
modern workshops that test equipment and provide
a comprehensive store of spare parts.
Turnover and profit again exceeded expectations,
and were only slightly down on last year, which 
was a record.
Food
Carr’s principal food company is Carr’s Flour Mills, 
a cereals processing company with flour mills at
Silloth using the latest milling technology to meet the
quality and specialist requirements of bakers, food
manufacturers and retailers.
Following a difficult first half as the result of
considerable under-recovery of the 60% increase in UK
wheat prices in the eight months to January 2004,  06
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Consistent growth throughout the 
engineering division has been achieved with
major contract wins
in Azerbaijan and the United States
the second half performed better, with selling price
increases being effective from the early months of
2004. The high-quality Carrs Breadmaker brand, which
was launched two years ago, while a small percentage
of divisional turnover, continues to be a good seller,
with listings in three major multiple retailers.
On the 29 November 2004 we exchanged contracts
to acquire, for a cash consideration of £4.7 million,
the flour milling business of Meneba UK which has
two flour mills, Robert Hutchinson at Kirkcaldy, 
Fife and Greens Flour Mills at Maldon, Essex. The
acquisition is subject to shareholder approval at the
Extraordinary General Meeting on 18 November
2004 and the details of the acquisition were
forwarded in a Circular to shareholders on 
1 November 2004.
The enlarged milling group will have a strong market
presence in the northern part of the UK and will
increase its activity in the area of speciality mixes
under both the Carrs and the Greens names.
The acquisition will be an excellent strategic fit for
Carrs and will more than double the size of our flour
business and is expected to be earnings enhancing in
the year to August 2005.
Engineering
Engineering now comprises Bendalls and R Hind,
both of which are based in Carlisle, and Carrs 
MSM, which is based in Swindon. Bendalls, whose
specialism is precision welding, designs and
manufactures plant and equipment for the petro-
chemical, oil and gas, nuclear power, pharmaceutical,
process and water industries. R Hind provides
vehicle body building and accident repairs for cars
and commercial vehicles. Carrs MSM designs and
manufactures master slave manipulators, which are
key components for many industries but notably the
nuclear industries. Bendalls performed better, with a steady order book
throughout the year and improved overall margins; the
business has won substantial orders in recent months.
Our involvement in renewable energy continues and
funding for phase 2 of the underwater turbine project
“SeaGen” is agreed. The design of “SeaGen” should
be approved in early 2005 with manufacture to
progress thereafter. R Hind had a disappointing year,
with tight margins and some unprofitable work. Carrs
MSM, which was set up in December 2003, has a
small but satisfactory order book, with its main
customer being British Nuclear Fuels Limited.
In October 2004, Carr’s completed the disposal of 
its site at London Road, Carlisle, where Bendalls
Engineering, its high integrity welding business, 
is based.
The cash consideration receivable by Carr’s is 
£2.6 million. In addition, the purchaser is committed
to build a new 55,000 sq ft factory for Bendalls at
Kingstown Industrial Estate which is expected to
cost £2.7 million, bringing the total consideration to
£5.3 million. The cash consideration will be used to
equip the new factory and for general working
capital purposes.
The total book value of the net assets disposed of is
£0.8 million. Accordingly, the profit on disposal is
expected to be approximately £4.5 million, which
will be accounted for as an exceptional gain in the
current year to 3 September 2005. A further benefit,
the Directors believe, is that the change in location
will enable Bendall to operate from a more efficient
factory.
Bendalls will remain operating from the London
Road site until the completion of the new factory and
the equipping thereof to its own specifications at a
cost to it of £0.75 million, which is expected to be in
August 2005.
Staff
I would like to take this opportunity to endorse the
Chairman’s comments about Ian C. Carr. In addition
to Ian’s contribution to the company over 40 years
making Carr’s Milling Industries what it is today, his
wonderful presence and approach to life and
business will be remembered by employees,
customers and shareholders alike.
Again, I would like to thank all my colleagues in the
UK, the Republic of Ireland and the USA for their
individual contributions in achieving a further set of
record profits.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
8 November 2004 
07
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2004
