 04
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review 
by Chris Holmes
the business
is growing
IN THE PERIOD ENDED 3 SEPTEMBER
2005, THE GROUP AGAIN ACHIEVED
RECORD UNDERL YING RESULTS.
Those were achieved from improved
trading in the Food division, in part as a
result of the Meneba UK flour acquisition,
Engineering division’s return to profit and
from the Agriculture division performing
well with results similar to last year. 05
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
FEED
The Group’s animal feed business comprises (in association with
Edward Billington & Sons Limited) the UK manufacture of animal feeds
by Carrs Billington Agriculture at Carlisle (Cumbria), Langwathby
(Cumbria), Lancaster (Lancashire) and Stone (Staffordshire) and the
blending of animal feeds at Askrigg (North Yorkshire), Kirkbride
(Cumbria) and Lancaster.
The market for ruminant animal feeds was difficult last year with severe
manufacturing over-capacity in the north of England resulting in margins
being under constant pressure. This resulted in reduced profits of own
feed and that of our associate company, Carrs Billington Agriculture
(Operations). In testing trading conditions it is important that we adhere
to our strategy and seize opportunities that secure our trading position.
Accordingly on 15 July 2005 our associate company acquired certain
trade and assets of W & J Pye Limited (in Administration) and
immediately initiated a consultation process with the management to
restructure the business. Following consultation it was agreed to cease
production at the acquired Blackburn and Shrewsbury feed mills in
addition to our feed mill at Penrith. The retained business was
transferred to our newly acquired feed mills in Lancaster and
Langwathby and also to our existing feed mills at Carlisle and Stone. 
On 1 October 2005, subsequent to the period end, we formed a new
joint venture company, Bibby Agriculture Limited, with Carrs Billington
Agriculture (Sales) being a 50% shareholder and Wynnstay Group PLC
and Welsh Feed Producers Limited each having a 25% shareholding.
Bibby Agriculture Limited will market animal feed, fertiliser and other
farm requirements in Wales with the feed supplied from the three
shareholders’ mills.
In the USA our two low-moisture animal feed block plants, at Belle
Fourche, South Dakota and Poteau, Oklahoma, manufacture Smartlic
and Feed in a Drum. During the period, they traded with large cost
increases in the base raw material, molasses. During the period we also
commenced marketing our range of equine products, Horslyx, which is
successfully sold in the UK, to the USA market, resulting in high initial
promotional costs. Consequently, the results are lower than last year.
However, the raw material cost increases are now recovered and, with
lower marketing costs associated with Horslyx, we expect profit growth
in the current year.
In the UK the growth of our speciality equine and calf products
continued. In February 2005, Horslyx Mini Licks, a treat for horses, 
was launched. Sales of Crystalyx continue to benefit from the adjacent
molasses terminal facility to the plant at Silloth in Cumbria.
In December 2005 we will commission a new low-moisture animal feed
plant to manufacture Crystalyx in Oldenburg, Germany with our 50%
joint venture partner, Agravis, one of Germany’s largest agricultural
companies. We look forward to growing new markets in continental
Europe.
FERTILISER
The fertiliser business performed well, with sales volumes of speciality
fertiliser encouraging and of traditional fertiliser similar to last year. The
investment programme to upgrade the production facilities at our three
blending sites – Invergordon (Easter Ross), Montrose (Angus) and
Silloth (Cumbria) – following the restructuring in 2003 was completed
during the period, giving higher capacity to meet seasonal demand.
The commitment to developing fertiliser products and services
appropriate to farming needs, post-CAP reform, is reflected in
increasing sales of our unique range of environmentally protective
fertiliser, New Choice. Through such developments Carr’s is well placed
to provide farmers with a whole-farm, integrated approach to nutrient
management covering all aspects of the soil/plant/animal cycle.
RETAIL
Again, we enjoyed a strong performance from our existing 14 retail
agricultural branches, operating from Milnathort in Kinross to Leek in
Staffordshire, with sales growth of 7%. We gained five branches from
the Pye acquisition which will help achieve our aim of continued growth
in retail. Our branches sell a wide product range to farmers with our
ultimate aim of providing a one stop shop supplying everything from
combine harvesters, tractors, feed, fertiliser, grass seed and wellington
boots, through to animal health products and minerals.
OIL
Pursuing our aim of growing the business and expanding our portfolio,
Wallace Oils was acquired in April 2005. Wallace Oils operates from three
depots in Cumbria and south west Scotland and supplies oils and lubricants
to a broad customer base. Cross-selling opportunities are presented
with both Carrs Billington Agriculture (Sales) and Carrs retail branches.
The full impact of this acquisition will be seen in the current year.
MACHINERY
Carrs Machinery distributes new and used agricultural and ground care
machinery from branches in Annan (Dumfriesshire), Carlisle and Penrith
(Cumbria), Hexham and Morpeth (Northumberland) and Barnard Castle
(County Durham). These branches have modern workshops and provide
a comprehensive store of spare parts.
Our sales expectations were again beaten, albeit at a lower level of
sales and profitability than the previous year.
Agriculture 06
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s Review 
continued
Food
Carr’s principal food businesses are Carr’s Flour Mills, with a flour mill at
Silloth and since November 2004, the two flour mills acquired, Hutchisons
at Kirkcaldy (Fife) and Greens at Maldon (Essex). The Silloth mill
experienced a three month loss of flour sales as a result of the flooding at
McVitie’s biscuit factory in Carlisle on 8 January 2005. The impact of the
loss of trade was partly compensated by our insurance programme. In
addition, a serious fire at a customer’s plant bakery, also in Carlisle, in
February resulted in a total loss of flour sales. The bakery is not expected
to re-open. Notwithstanding these events, the Silloth mill performed well,
as did the acquired mills. The integration of the enlarged flour business has
gone well and the business has a strong market presence in the northern
area of the UK and has increased its market in the supply of speciality
mixes. The results of the acquisition in the nine months have been earnings
enhancing, not withstanding reorganisation costs of £0.35 million and are
ahead of expectations. 
The benefits next year of a full year’s trading of Greens and Hutchisons,
combined with the implemented cost savings, should outweigh the severe
increases in energy costs. 
Carrs Breadmaker flour brand range continues to sell well, with listings in
three major multiple retailers. 07
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2005
Staff
David Newton, who became the
first non Carr family Chairman in
1996, suffered ill health last year,
retiring from the Board in April
2005. I would like to endorse the
Chairman’s comments by thanking
David for his contribution to the
Group, together with the support
to myself, and wish him a speedy
and full recovery.
2005 has been another year of
record results and I would like to
thank all my colleagues in the UK
and the USA for their individual
contributions in achieving a very
successful year in terms of the
results and positioning the Group
for the future.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2005 
Engineering comprises Bendalls and R Hind, both 
of which operate from independent sites on the
Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle, and Carrs MSM
which is based in Swindon in Wiltshire. Bendalls,
designs and manufactures specialist steel fabrications
for the global petrochemical, nuclear, renewable
energy and process industries. R Hind provides
vehicle body building and accident repairs for cars
and commercial vehicles. Carrs MSM designs and
manufactures master slave manipulators, which are
key components for many industries but notably the
nuclear industry.
In the period, the Engineering division returned to
profit.
Bendalls performed well and enjoyed a steady flow
of work throughout the period. The high quality of
fabrication work for the nuclear and the oil industries
won many new contracts, not least a contract to
supply pressure vessels to BP for the Caspian Sea
offshore oil development. The sale of the London
Road site in Carlisle and relocation of the division to
the new purpose built 5,000 square metres factory
on the Kingstown Industrial Estate, Carlisle should
give Bendalls the opportunity of winning contracts
which its previous premises would have excluded it
from tendering for. The gain on the disposal of the
site in October was £4.11m and the net cash
retained by Bendalls was £1.3m after incurring the
cost of equipping the new factory and relocating.
Bendalls’ involvement in renewable energy is
ongoing, with the tidal energy project, “SeaGen”,
expected to be commissioned and connected to
the national grid in the second half of 2006. The
project has suffered from delays in release of
government funding resulting in late completion of
front end design activities.
Carrs MSM had a good year and entered the
current year with a good order book.
R Hind improved over the previous year and should
make steady progress this year.
Engineering
