 04
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Review
In the period to 2 September 2006, Carr’s both achieved an eighth
successive annual increase in adjusted earnings per share and further
strengthened its business. The two large acquisitions of the previous
year - the Meneba flour mills and the Pye feed mills by our associate -
were successfully incorporated into the Group activities and three joint
ventures, mainly in the area of manufacture and supply of animal feed,
were established.
Chris Holmes 05
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
agriculture
The Group’s Agriculture business comprises, in the UK primarily in the
North West of England and South West of Scotland, four related activities
- animal feed manufacture, fertiliser blending, agricultural retailing and oil
distribution - and, in the USA and Germany, animal feed manufacture.
Operating profit of £5.0m (2005: £5.9m) was achieved on a revenue of
£174.5m (2005: £132.7m).
UNITED KINGDOM 
Agriculture’s UK market place was even more challenging than last period.
In general, this reflected delays and uncertainty in farmers’ receiving the
initial Single Farm Payment (indeed, considerable sums are still outstanding
in respect of the 2005 harvest year), the unprecedented low farm gate
milk price and higher energy costs. 
Further problems specifically affecting the manufacture of compound
ruminant animal feed included the mild winter weather (enabling animals to
feed outside) and substantial over-production, reflecting reduced demand,
in the Group’s trading area.
In the latter context, the Group, together with its associate, took decisive
action (as it has often done when faced with adverse conditions). Within
months of the acquisition in July 2005 by the Group’s associate company,
Carr's Billington Agriculture Operations, of certain assets of W&J Pye 
(in Administration), compound feed mills were closed at Blackburn
(Lancashire), Penrith (Cumbria) and Shrewsbury (Shropshire). This left
Carr's Billington Agriculture Operations with four compound feed mills - 
at Carlisle (Cumbria), Langwathby (Cumbria), Lancaster (Lancashire) 
and Stone (Staffordshire) - and three blended feed mills - at Askrigg
(North Yorkshire), Kirkbride (Cumbria) and Lancaster. Notwithstanding,
manufacturing capacity remains in excess of demand. The rationalisation
and integration of the two entities has gone well as too has the capital
expenditure to improve the efficiency and quality of product at the
Lancaster Mill. 
In March 2006, Afgritech, a joint venture company in which Carr’s Milling
Industries is a 50% shareholder, was formed with Afgri Operations, one of
the largest South African agricultural companies. Afgritech has invested
£0.7m in a new plant at Langwathby to produce by-pass protein for
ruminant animals, which will initially be available exclusively to customers of
Carr's Billington Agriculture, simultaneously increasing labour productivity at
that plant. Production will start in November 2006.
The Caltech division, which has a plant at Silloth (Cumbria), again
increased revenue and profits from its manufacture of low-moisture feed
blocks for the domestic, agricultural livestock and equine market. The
successful launch of a new product, Garlyx, designed to repel biting insects
on cattle and horses, will fully benefit the new financial year.
Bibby Agriculture, the joint venture company formed in September 2005 in
which Carr's Billington Agriculture Sales is a 50% shareholder, has made a
good start selling in Wales animal feed manufactured by its shareholders,
fertiliser and other farming supplies. 
Fertiliser, produced at the Group’s three blending plants - at Invergordon
(Easter Ross), Montrose (Angus) and Silloth - marginally increased its
volumes, but profits slightly reduced. This reflected a difficult first half
and peak period of March/April, reflecting farmers’ reluctance to pay
energy-related higher prices. The Group’s unique range of
environmentally-protective fertiliser, New Choice, increased both
revenue, by 15%, and profit.
Carr’s agricultural retailing increased both revenue and profits from its 
14 branches, operating as Carr's Billington Agriculture, from Perth in the
North to Leek (Staffordshire) in the South, selling farm supplies. Carr’s
Machinery distributes new and used agricultural and groundcare machinery
from six of these branches, across the north of England and in Dumfries
and Galloway in South West Scotland. Sales of Massey Ferguson
machinery again exceeded expectations and the increased sales of parts
and workshop services again contributed to the result.
Wallace Oils, which was acquired in April 2005, supplies oils and lubricants
to a broad customer base out of three depots, located at Carlisle, Dumfries
and Stranraer, the latter two in Dumfries and Galloway.
In its first full year of ownership, Wallace Oils performed satisfactorily and
began to make inroads into the Group’s customer base.
OVERSEAS
In the US, our subsidiary, Animal Feed Supplement, which produces
Smartlic and Feed in a Drum low-moisture animal feed blocks at mills in
Belle Fourche (South Dakota) and Poteau (Oklahoma), substantially
increased its volumes, but profit margins were lower as a result of further
cost increases in the base raw material, molasses. The installation of a
new production line to replace the 1998 production line, the older of the
two, at Belle Fourche will be completed in November 2006 without
disrupting production.
In Germany, a 50:50 joint venture, Crystalyx Products, was established in
2005 in conjunction with Agravis, one of Germany’s largest agricultural
companies. In January 2006, a new low-moisture animal feed plant was
commissioned to manufacture Crystalyx in Oldenburg, North West
Germany for the domestic market. The business has commenced well,
breaking into new European markets.  06
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s Review continued
food
Operating profit before non-recurring items and amortisation of
intangible assets of £3.3m (2005: £2.3m) was achieved on revenue of
£55.7m (2005: £48.0m).
Carr’s principal food businesses are Carr’s Flour Mills, with a flour mill at
Silloth, and, since November 2004, the two former Meneba flour mills,
Hutchisons at Kirkcaldy (Fife) and Greens at Maldon (Essex). The
Meneba acquisition more than doubled the size of Carr’s flour business.
In a favourable market for flour, all three mills worked near capacity
throughout the period and a price increase was implemented in
September 2005 partially offsetting increases in the cost of electricity
and distribution. Higher margin speciality flours are performing
particularly well. Silloth suffered no repetition of the previous period’s
three month loss of flour sales to United Biscuits’ factory in Carlisle, as
a result of flooding, and increased its sales to United Biscuits’ Tollcross
factory outside Glasgow. The Kirkcaldy and Maldon mills benefited from
a full year’s trading and the greater efficiencies implemented since
acquisition.
The Carr’s Breadmaker range of retail flours continues to sell well, with
listings in three major multiple retailers.  07
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2006
Engineering operating profit totalled £1.1m (2005: £0.8m, before the gain
on disposal of property of £4.1m) on a revenue of £12.2m (2005: £11.2m).
Engineering comprises Bendalls and R Hind, which are based in
Carlisle, and Carr's MSM, which is based in Swindon (Wiltshire).
Bendall’s designs and manufactures specialist steel fabrications for the
global petrochemical, nuclear, renewable energy and process industries.
R Hind provides vehicle bodybuilding and accident repairs for cars and
commercial vehicles. Carr's MSM designs and manufactures master
slave manipulators, which are key components for many industries but
notably the nuclear industry.
Bendalls, which is much the largest of the three activities, benefited
from more efficient working conditions following the move into larger,
modern premises in July 2005. A £2.5m contract to supply to the
Azerbaijan oil pipeline pressure vessels was constructed and
successfully delivered in the year. The SeaGen next generation tidal
energy device, for which Bendalls has manufactured a part of the
structure, is expected to be delivered to Strangford Lough, outside
Belfast, and connected to the National Grid in January 2007. Prospects
for improved orders from British Nuclear Group at Sellafield are good as
its decommissioning programme progresses.
Of the smaller divisions, R Hind traded satisfactorily, whilst Carr's MSM
traded well gaining some new customers and enters the new year with
a strong order book.
STAFF
In October this year Carr’s celebrated its 175th Anniversary - a great
achievement, particularly made even more special by it being the eighth
year in a row of hitting new records of profitability and shareholder
returns.
This is a great achievement for the Company and I would like to pay
tribute to all my colleagues here in the UK, the USA and Europe for
their dedication and commitment to the continued growth of the
Company.
PROSPECTS
Market conditions for Agriculture are not getting any easier with the low
farm gate milk price and again unbelievable expected delays of the
Single Farm Payment. The massive increase in wheat prices combined
with high-energy costs will make it a tough year for the Food division.
Engineering made good progress this period, but this is unlikely to be
repeated in the current period. 
Given these trading environments, to achieve a ninth successive annual
increase in adjusted profit before tax will be challenging, despite the
greater strength of the business and Carr’s track record in successfully
combating adverse conditions.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
21 November 2006
engineering
