 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
a year of
achievement
04   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 It was 100 years ago, in June 1908, that the
Directors of Carr & Co created for its flour
milling activities the company that now 
trades as Carr’s Milling Industries PLC. It is
particularly special to celebrate this centenary
with a year of outstanding financial results.
In the 52 weeks to 30 August 2008,
the average annual farm gate milk
price increased by 38.4%, from
18.49p to 25.59p. The average price
in the period 1997-2007 had been
increasingly unsustainable. The
consequence, to the disadvantage 
of UK plc, was a massive exit from
dairying, which is a capital intensive
industry in terms of land, buildings
and animals, as well as one
involving the sustained working 
of unsocial hours.
With Agriculture again capitalising 
on its innovative niche products 
- the benefit of a focus on product
development and the creation of
intellectual property - and its strong
market position in North West
England and Scotland, the pre-tax
profit for the year was easily a record. 
Agriculture operating profit*
£11.7m
Food operating profit*
£2.0m
Engineering operating profit*
£1.1m
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 05
* before retirement benefit charge agriculture
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
06   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) of £11.7m (2007: £5.1m), a
128% increase, was achieved on revenue up 48% at £275.8m (2007: £185.9m).
Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of
£11.7m
(2007: £5.1m) up 128%
Revenue
up 48% 
at £275.8m
(2007: £185.9m)
United Kingdom
In the year under review, the Agriculture Division saw
enormous changes. Whilst raw material prices increased
hugely, farm incomes also rose dramatically, due to badly
needed increases in grain and farm-gate milk prices. 
This time last year, we decided to buy forward many of our
key raw materials, as did many of our competitors, so we
were able to protect our customers from the full impact of
the animal feed price increases over the winter. However,
our real focus has been on product quality, new product
development and customer service in order to maximise 
our customers’ profits, as we believe this is the key to our
long-term success. The investment in the AminoMax plant
at Langwathby, to improve farmers’ milk yields, has clearly
been a success, given the volumes sold. 
Growth in market share of compound and blended animal
feeds, with increased sales volumes, enabled better
utilisation of our seven feed mills – four compound mills 
(at Carlisle and Langwathby in Cumbria, Lancaster in
Lancashire and Stone in Staffordshire), producing pellets,
and three blended feed mills (at Askrigg in North Yorkshire,
Kirkbride in Cumbria and Lancaster in Lancashire),
producing loose mixes. This resulted in increased profits
through increased sales volumes and production efficiencies. 
Crystalyx low moisture feed blocks, produced at Silloth in
Cumbria, increased volumes and revenue. The milk price
increase has created a further opportunity for brand
development. Optimum, a low moisture feed block, was
successfully launched at the National Dairy Event at
Stoneleigh in September 2008 and this should enable
continuing growth in sales volumes and profits.
Fertiliser had an excellent year as a result of increased sales
volumes of both standard and environmentally-protective
fertiliser. Raw material price increases throughout the year
were massive and selling prices were constantly adjusted,
generating a considerable part of the profit, much of it as
inventory gain. The year benefited, in the latter months,
from the forward buying by our customers of fertiliser for
spreading in the autumn of 2008 and the spring of 2009.
Carr’s three fertiliser blending plants (at Invergordon in
Ross-shire, Montrose in Angus, and Silloth in Cumbria) give
it a substantial market share in Scotland and the North of
England. 
Retail and machinery had a very good year, with retail
continuing to grow in revenue and profit from its 
15 branches (12 in the North of England - of which one 
was acquired in July 2008 - and three in Scotland).
Machinery enjoyed a strong presence in its market through
its Massey Ferguson dealership, and revenue in the year 
was ahead of the previous year and budget.
The enlarged fuel business, including a first full year for
Johnstone Fuels, performed well, exceeded budget, and
made a useful contribution to Group profit. We now trade 
as Johnstone Wallace Fuels in South West Scotland and
Wallace Oils in Cumbria.
Overseas
In the USA, Animal Feed Supplements, whose plants are
located in Belle Fourche, South Dakota and Poteau,
Oklahoma, had an excellent year, with record sales of
Smartlic and Feed in a Drum low moisture feed blocks. 
This resulted in record profits, when expressed in US dollars. 
In Germany, Crystalyx Products, the joint venture in
conjunction with Agravis, again produced record volumes
and increased exports to adjacent countries.
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 07 food
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) of £2.0m
(2007: £1.1m), up 77%, was achieved on revenue up 50% at
£85.6m (2007: £57.0m). 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Following an extremely difficult prior year 
for flour, the increase in operating profit,
which was achieved despite a poor start to 
the year before a price rise took effect, was
badly needed. The increase in wheat prices
that started in late summer 2007 continued
until virtually the end of the financial year.
Sales volumes of flour increased during the
year, but by a much smaller percentage than
revenue. The operating margin increased to
2.3% (2007: 1.9%).
The aim of Carr’s three flour mills, at
Kirkcaldy (Fife), Silloth (Cumbria) and
Maldon (Essex), to provide the highest levels
of service and product quality for the bread,
biscuit and ingredients market, continues.
Homegrown, Continental European and
North American wheat are used and there is
extensive in-house research and development.
The three mills have maintained their
regional identity and each mill has a strong
local management team. This has aided the
development of close working relationships
with a wide range of customers across the UK.
It also means that central costs are
minimised. 
08   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of 
£2.0m
(2007: £1.1m) up 77%
Revenue
up 50%
at £85.6m
(2007: £57.0m)
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 09 engineering
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge) increased
by 7% to £1.1m (2007: £1.0m) on revenue up 12% at £10.7m
(2007: £9.6m).
Bendalls, our specialist steel fabrication
business, successfully completed some 
large contracts for the nuclear, oil and 
gas industries. Continual delays and design
alterations frustrated the work flow on certain
contracts. Bendalls enters the financial year
with a strong order book across all its market
sectors.
Of the smaller businesses, Carr’s MSM 
had a steady and successful year, completing 
and supplying new design master slave
manipulators to British Nuclear Group. 
R Hind traded satisfactorily in a competitive
market for vehicle body building and 
accident repairs.
10   Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Staff
The year has not been without its challenges,
which included massive commodity price rises
which affected both our Agriculture and Food
Divisions as well as our customers. The
Company has continued to progress and my
thanks go to all my colleagues in the UK,
Europe and the USA for the excellent result 
for the period.
Prospects
The macro outlook for our UK livestock farming
customers - the dairy, beef and sheep farmers -
is looking favourable. Following their huge
increases last year, cereal prices have reduced
significantly to a level that is looking
unsustainably low for UK arable farmers given
the higher fertiliser input costs. Overseas, Carr’s
Agriculture business continues to prosper and
grow.
The flour milling business is operating in a
competitive industry and the restoration of
acceptable margins is a priority. The poor
quality of the milling wheat from the 2008
harvest in the north of the UK is increasing 
the cost base of our two northern mills. 
The Engineering Division is trading in an
environment that should not be materially
affected by the current economic situation,
having regard to its focus on the nuclear
decommissioning and oil and gas industries.
Carr’s has a track record of success, even in
times of difficult market conditions for its three
Divisions. The current year has started well.
Carr’s remains well placed for further
underlying progress.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2008
Operating profit
(before retirement benefit charge) of
£1.1m
(2007: £1.0m) up 7%
Revenue
up 12%
at £10.7m
(2007: £9.6m)
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2008 11
