 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
5
Chief Executive’s Review
Chris Holmes 
Chief Executive Officer
Agriculture
Operating profit
£6.0m
Food
Operating profit
£2.3m
Engineering
Operating profit
£1.4m
There is little doubt that the 52 week period to August 2009 
was extremely challenging given the well publicised volatile and 
economic conditions that prevailed.
In these circumstances, the strength of Carr’s diversity of its activities, 
not only between its three Divisions but also within those Divisions, was 
demonstrated. From its well invested facilities and continuing product 
innovations most of the individual activities 
increased their profit, enabling the Group to 
achieve a pre-tax profit well above 2007, despite 
the market conditions for Fertiliser as adverse as 
2008 had been favourable.
During the year the Group’s smallest Division, Engineering, was substantially 
expanded with the acquisition of the Wälischmiller Engineering business 
in Germany. The expertise of Wälischmiller with our existing high 
tech engineering business in the UK, Carrs MSM, should enable further 
opportunities of growth, both in the UK and internationally. Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
6
The fuel oil business, trading as Johnstone Wallace Fuels in south west 
Scotland and Wallace Oils in Cumbria, benefited from the cold winter and 
increased both its market share and its profit. This business, formed primarily 
by acquisitions in 2005 and 2007, is now making a useful contribution to 
the Group result.
Overseas 
In the USA, Animal Feed Supplement suffered a near 30% volume decline in 
sales of its Smartlic and Feed in a Drum feed blocks, as a result of the impact 
of low beef prices caused by the recession, record high ingredient prices 
and, as a consequence, lower livestock numbers. Y ear on year, the profit was 
higher due to cost reductions and the translation of US$ profit at £1:$1.50 
(2008: £1:$1.99). 
In Germany, Crystalyx Products, the joint venture with Agravis to manufacture 
feed blocks, also suffered volume declines as a result of the very low German 
farm-gate milk price and the strong Euro, which acted as a hindrance to 
exports. 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Agriculture
In the year, the market place experienced significant volatility in raw material prices and declines 
in both the farm-gate milk price (from 26.3p to 23.3p per litre) and milk output. The massive price 
increases for fertiliser raw materials in the prior year reversed and selling prices were frequently 
adjusted downwards. Divisional revenue was 8% lower at £255.0m (2008: £275.8m) and 
operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation) 
decreased by 48% to £6.0m (2008: £11.7m). Additionally, the Group’s share of post-tax profit in 
associate and joint ventures was down 34% at £1.1m (2008: £1.6m).
Operating profit*
£6.0m
(2008: £11.7m)
Revenue
£255.0m
(2008: £275.8m)
United Kingdom
Compound and blended animal feed volumes and profit were appreciably 
lower. This resulted from increased alternative usage of cheaper home-
grown cereals sourced from the prolific 2008 harvest, especially in the 
important January-April period, from the continuing reduction in cattle 
numbers and from the continuing compound animal feed production 
overcapacity in the north west of England and indeed the UK. 
Caltech, the low moisture feed block business increased its profits, despite 
the higher price of the principal raw material, molasses. Two new products 
were introduced during the year - Optimum, for dairy cattle, in September 
2008 and, through market demand - Smallholder Block in August 2009, both 
with pleasing results. 
The fertiliser result was significantly affected by the very substantial 
decline in both selling price (which had peaked in April 2008 and declined 
significantly from January 2009) and volumes (down 30% on the prior year). 
Fertiliser sales suffered from farmers deferring orders in anticipation of 
lower selling prices. A considerable part of the deterioration from profit 
to loss was due to sales of inventories at below historic cost following a 
significant decrease in raw material prices from January this year. Despite 
the adverse market conditions, sales volumes 
of environmentally friendly speciality fertilisers 
substantially increased and the unique phosphate 
fertiliser enhancer, AVAIL, to which Carr’s has 
secured exclusive UK rights, was successfully 
launched in July 2009. It is thought to have 
considerable potential. 
The retailing of rural supplies from a network of 
15 stores in the north of England and in Scotland 
and of agricultural machinery and ground care 
equipment from six of these stores increased 
both revenue and profit. Whilst rural supplies is 
the higher margin activity, agricultural machinery 
and ground care equipment had a particularly 
good year. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  7
Despite the adverse market 
conditions, sales volumes of 
environmentally friendly speciality 
fertilisers substantially increased.
> Crystalyx launched in New Zealand
> Successful launch of two new 
Crystalyx products, Optimum 
 and Smallholder Block 
> Exclusive UK rights secured in 
July 2009 for unique phosphate 
enhancing fertiliser - AVAIL 
> Aminomax bypass protein being 
launched from new plant in the USA  Chief Executive’s Review continued
The decline in revenue reflected the lower price of the principal raw material, 
milling wheat, which was passed on to the customer. The operating margin, 
though improved, remained modest, at 3.0% (2008: 2.3%).
 
In the year, all three of the Group’s flour mills - at Kirkcaldy (Fife), Silloth 
(Cumbria) and Maldon (Essex) – made volume gains through product 
innovation and increased their profit through cost reduction. 
 
Each of the three mills has maintained its 
own regional identity and has a strong local 
management team. This has enabled the 
Food
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-
recurring items and amortisation) of £2.3m (2008: £2.0m), up 19%, 
was achieved on revenue 8% lower at £79.0m (2008: £85.6m). 
8
Operating profit*
£2.3m
(2008: £2.0m)
Revenue
£79.0m
(2008: £85.6m)
development of close working relationships with customers. As a result, our 
people develop a deep understanding of specific customer needs which 
allows us to provide the highest levels of product and service quality. 
 
With its own extensive research and development facilities, the business has 
an excellent record of providing innovative solutions to customers’ technical 
challenges and has recently gained new sales in the breakfast cereals sector 
through this approach.
 
Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
9
Growing
our markets
The three flour mills aim to 
provide the highest levels of 
product and service quality.
> All three of the Group’s flour 
mills made volume gains through 
innovation
> New sales in the breakfast 
cereals sector through innovative 
solutions to customers’ technical 
challenges  Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
10 
Chief Executive’s Review continued
Engineering
Operating profit (before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items 
and amortisation) increased by 31% to £1.4m (2008: £1.1m) on revenue up 
48% at £15.9m (2008: £10.7m). On a like-for-like basis, excluding Wälischmiller 
Engineering, the revenue increase would have been 1%, to £10.8m. 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller 
Engineering have complementary 
businesses in various European countries, 
as well as Russia, Japan and China. 
Operating profit*
£1.4m
(2008: £1.1m)
Revenue
£15.9m
(2008: £10.7m)
Bendalls, the Group’s specialist steel fabrication business, benefited from 
completion of substantial contracts for pressure vessels for delivery both in 
the UK and overseas, but continued to suffer delays by contractors, due to 
funding issues and design changes, on certain other contracts. 
Carrs MSM, the manufacturer of master slave 
manipulators for research centres and nuclear 
plants, traded well, albeit recording a slightly 
reduced profit after a slow start to the year. 
Wälischmiller Engineering, the remote handling 
technology, robotics and radiation equipment 
business based in southern Germany, which was 
acquired in March 2009, contributed substantially 
to divisional revenue and profit, despite being 
in the Group for only the second half of the 
year. Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller Engineering 
have complementary businesses, supplying 
well designed and engineered manipulators to 
research and nuclear facilities in various European 
countries, as well as Russia, Japan and China. 
Staff
This year posed a different challenge to 2008 with commodity price falls, 
particularly fertiliser, lower agriculture feed volume in the UK and USA plus 
the global recession. The Company performed well in these circumstances 
and my thanks go to all my colleagues in the UK, Europe and the USA for 
their contribution during the year.
Chris Holmes Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2009
*before retirement benefit charge but after non-recurring items and amortisation  “Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, 
consectetuer adipiscing elit, 
sed diam nonummy nibh 
euismod tincidunt ut laoreet 
dolore magna aliquam erat 
volutpat.”
potential
> Bendalls skills and quality of work 
meet the most demanding of 
engineering environments 
> Acquisition of Wälischmiller 
Engineering based in Southern 
Germany complements Carr’s 
MSM business and opens up  
new overseas markets 
11 Annual Report & Accounts 2009
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
