 Chief Executive’s Review
 Chris Holmes Chief Executive
Across Carr’s the benefits of broadening our 
product range, together with the investment 
in improved operating efficiency and our cost 
reduction programmes have produced a significant 
increase in the Group’s performance in the year 
to August 2010. The improvement is reflected in 
margins, profitability and cash generation and was 
achieved against the continuing subdued global 
economic backdrop. We believe that the foundation 
has been laid for a period of sustained growth, 
particularly in Agriculture.
5
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Against this background, sales of both animal feeds and low moisture feed blocks rose 
steadily during the year, with profitability enhanced. This was the result of our focus on 
added value products such as Aminomax, a bypass protein developed in the U.S., the 
benefits of investment in efficient facilities and our focus on customer service.
Looking forward, as both animal feed compound and block markets are relatively 
mature, the keys to growth will be product innovation, efficiency and selective 
acquisitions such as Scotmin Nutrition in June 2010. 
Scotmin’s supplement ranges complement the feed 
block products produced and marketed by Caltech. 
We successfully launched the Crystalyx brand range 
into New Zealand, potentially a very large market for 
our products, and we expect this initiative to start 
contributing to revenues in the current financial year.
The demand for Crystalyx products in Germany 
continues to grow and new export markets have been 
opened, notably in France.
The performance of our branch network which retails farm inputs, rural supplies and 
agricultural machinery, has been very satisfactory. Despite price deflation across the 
product range, like-for-like sales increased by 2% for the year. Bolt-on acquisitions such 
as A C Burn, acquired last June, and Forsyths of Wooler, announced after the year-end, 
augment the growth prospects of this part of our business. The network of branches 
has risen to 19 across Northern England and Scotland.
Our farm machinery activities also performed well throughout the year, winning in 
September 2010 the Kuhn distribution agency for agricultural machinery. The Kuhn 
product range expands our existing range of machinery and should enable us to enter 
new markets.
Our fuel oil business provides natural synergies between the retailing of agricultural 
and rural supplies. This has led us to expand our fuel oil business by opening depots  
at our feed mills which are located near to our retail branches. Market share continues 
to grow and the business benefited strongly from last winter’s severe weather.
Agriculture - Trading
The demand for animal feed and other agricultural products 
remains good. Farmgate prices, with the notable exception of 
milk, have generally been strong. During the year, the regions we 
serve endured severe winter weather. The excellent service we 
were able to give our customers during this difficult period was 
recognised by Carr’s being presented with The Scottish Livestock 
Supplier of the Year award at the Royal Highland show in June of 
this year. 
6
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Agriculture - Manufacturing
Following the sharp fall experienced last year, demand 
for fertiliser has been steadily improving, with prices 
rising; and we have seen a sharp recovery in profitability. 
This followed a period of two years of high sales, and 
then a period of low sales, but we now foresee a more 
orderly market.
We have reduced our reliance on commodity products 
and seen the benefits of investment in new value added 
products such as AVAIL, our unique phosphorus fertiliser 
enhancer, as well as environmentally oriented products. 
This enabled us to continue to grow our market share. 
Margins remain satisfactory, despite the pressure from 
phosphate and nitrogen input prices, and the immediate 
outlook is positive.
This segment of our operations includes our low 
moisture animal feed business operating from two 
plants in the US. Our market share in feed blocks is 
increasing as the result of our continuing focus on new 
product development for the cattle feed market, which 
is benefiting from a recovery in beef prices. ➜
7
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Chief Executive’s Review - continued
8
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Markets continue to be extremely challenging as we 
contend with significantly higher raw material prices  
and industry over-capacity. We are responding by 
reducing operating costs, while at the same time 
focusing on developing speciality products. We have 
recently secured a contract to supply a leading UK food 
retailer with a new range of speciality flours for its own 
premium brand.
The rise in wheat prices over the last two months  
of the financial year has been extreme. Following  
drastic reductions in wheat output from Eastern  
Europe, exacerbated by wet weather downgrading 
harvest quality in Northern Europe, and further fuelled 
by commodity speculation on both sides of the Atlantic,  
the market price of wheat has moved up by over 60%.
These volatile and fast moving markets present 
challenges and opportunities. We have taken appropriate 
steps to manage the risks presented by greater volatility 
and continue to explore new wheat supply sources.  
In the past year we have received cargoes of wheat  
from Latvia, and also, for the first time in almost  
50 years, direct shipments of Canadian wheat into  
our Cumbrian Silloth mill.
➜
 
Our food division comprises 
three flour mills, in Fife, 
Cumbria and Essex. We 
supply most sectors of the 
market, including industrial 
bakers, craft bakers, food 
manufacturers and multiple 
retailers. 
Food
9
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Carr’s is operated on a decentralised basis with a number of business sectors each 
with its own management team. The continued successful growth of the Company is 
a reflection of their expertise and commitment and on behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank them and their colleagues for their contribution in driving the business 
forward.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2010
Staff
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Following a decline in the first half, the order book at Bendalls, the Group’s specialist 
steel fabrication business recovered in the second half and there is evidence of scope 
to improve margins. 
Wälischmiller has performed very well since acquisition in 2009 and continues to see 
sales volumes increase. The order book for 2011 and 2012 is strong with good demand 
from Japan, France and Germany. In addition we have received our first orders from 
China. 
Key determinants of the trading performance of this division include 
demand from the nuclear and oil/petrochemical industries. The order 
book for the nuclear market is particularly strong with high activity 
in Europe and the Far East. The emphasis on niche high-skill contract-
focused work will remain.
Engineering
The engineering division broadly maintained revenue but saw 
profits fall. This principally reflects lower demand at Carrs MSM 
as the result of more stringent stock control management by its 
major customer. 
The Group completed three acquisitions, all agriculture related businesses, in the 
second half of the year. Both Ag Chem and A C Burn are small businesses and have 
been successfully integrated. Scotmin Nutrition, a producer and distributor of animal 
feed supplements, complements our existing range of feed block products and will 
create one of the UK’s leading feed and mineral block producers and suppliers.
Since the year-end a small agricultural business engaged in the sale of animal feed and 
proprietary health products was acquired.
Acquisitions
10
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010 11
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC • Annual Report & Accounts 2010
