 02
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Chairman’s Statement
Carr’s delivered a strong trading 
performance for the 53 weeks ended  
3 September 2011.
Overall, agricultural prices were favourable and our continued focus on service, 
particularly in the UK during the severe winter months, significantly benefited the 
results for the year. Strong demand from the nuclear industry and the completion of 
significant projects during the second half of the period resulted in a very satisfactory 
contribution from the engineering business whose order book continues to grow 
and is now quoting for 2014 and beyond. The food business remains focused on 
cost control to mitigate the negative impact on sales growth and margins from the 
continued excess capacity in the flour milling industry.
In July 2011, we completed the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers to Origin Enterprises 
(UK) Limited for a cash consideration of £19.0 million before expenses. In addition, 
and in accordance with the agreement, Origin discharged the net debt in Carrs 
Fertilisers which was £3.9 million. The disposal will reduce the Group’s exposure to 
fluctuating commodity prices, should reduce the volatility of the Group’s operating 
profit and significantly reduce levels of seasonal working capital. We have always 
recognised the cyclical nature of the fertiliser business and are therefore particularly 
pleased to have been able to dispose of it at a significant book profit.
The continuing agriculture and engineering businesses are well placed to deliver 
sustainable, profitable growth over the next few years. Our strategy is to expand 
in the UK and internationally, both organically and through selected acquisitions in 
growing niche markets, which build on our core strengths. 
In addition, we are expanding our animal feedblock business in Europe and New 
Zealand. We also believe that Wälischmiller Engineering has an opportunity to build 
a leading position in nuclear manipulator markets worldwide. 
Financial Review
Revenue for the period for continuing operations increased by 25.2 per cent to 
£373.3 million (2010: £298.1 million). Profit before taxation, excluding a £16.6 
million profit from discontinued operations, was up 34.8 per cent to £10.0 million 
(2010: £7.4 million). The growth achieved by our core businesses, in a relatively 
stable business environment, is a result of the investment made by the Group in 
selected niche markets both in the UK and overseas.
Excluding discontinued operations, basic earnings per share for the year were up 
by 48.4 per cent to 77.0 pence (2010: 51.9 pence) with fully diluted earnings per 
share of 76.3 pence (2010: 51.9 pence) and adjusted earnings per share of 88.4 
pence (2010: 53.5 pence).
The net cash generated from operating activities in continuing operations was  
£11.4 million (2010: £8.3 million). At the end of the year, the Group had net cash 
of £4.6 million compared to net debt of £15.5 million at 28 August 2010. This 
reflected the disposal of Carrs Fertiliser for a net cash consideration of £22.1 million 
including the discharge of net debt. It also reflected total investment and capital 
expenditure during the year of £5.0 million, a reduction in working capital of £4.0 
million, and an additional £2.0 million paid to the pension scheme. 
As a result of a strong balance sheet, which is underpinned by a strong cash 
generation performance, the Group is well placed to fund its investment activities, 
including potential acquisitions in the UK and overseas. 
Richard Inglewood
Chairman Annual Report & Accounts 2011     03
Dividend
The Board is proposing an 8.3 per cent increase in the final dividend to 13.0 
pence per ordinary share which, together with the two interim dividends of 6.5 
pence per share each, paid in May and October 2011, makes a total of 26.0 
pence per share for the year (2010: 24.0 pence per share). The final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, will be paid on 20 January 2012 to shareholders  
on the register at the close of business on 23 December 2011 and the shares will 
go ex-dividend on 21 December 2011. 
James Ross Crawford
It is with sadness that I report to Shareholders the death during the year of Ross 
Crawford. Ross was appointed to the board in 1972 and made an enormous 
contribution to the continuing success of the Company over the following 18 years. 
Douglas, one of Ross’ sons, is employed in our agricultural feed milling company, 
and on behalf of all at Carr’s we extend our sympathy to Ross’ family.
Outlook
We anticipate that future financial performance will benefit from the investments 
we have made, in the UK and overseas, to expand in new and existing growth 
markets and to improve operational efficiency.
We also believe that the growth potential of the Group’s core businesses will 
significantly mitigate the dilutive impact of the disposal of Carrs Fertilisers on 
earnings in the short term.
The current year has started well, benefiting from increased sales of low moisture 
feed blocks in the UK, USA, Europe and New Zealand.
We expect further growth in the US from the opening of two new plants in 
Watertown, New York State (producing AminoMax) and Shelbyville, Tennessee 
(producing high moisture feed blocks).
Group financial performance will also benefit from the restructured and recently 
launched new brands in our Scotmin business, a full year’s trading of Safe at 
Work, utilisation of the new port facility at Kirkcaldy and the strong order book  
in Engineering.
In addition to the capital projects in progress, the Board is continuing to explore 
acquisitions and other investment opportunities and, with the Group’s strong 
balance sheet and cash position, we believe that Carr’s is well positioned for 
sustained profitable growth. 
Richard Inglewood
Chairman
17 November 2011
