 04
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Chief Executive’s Review 
Chris Holmes 
Chief Executive
A year ago I stated that “the foundation 
has been laid for a period of sustained 
growth” and the results this year 
support this statement.
In 2011 we achieved a record profit from our businesses, surpassing the high level 
achieved during the period of exceptionally high raw materials prices in 2008.
We are well positioned to grow our business in the UK and overseas on the 
foundation that has been laid.
In the period, we invested a total of £5.0 million in our core activities and have 
earmarked projects for investment over the next two years. Major investment projects 
completed and proposed include:
• £0.8 million for a grain handling and storage facility at Kirkcaldy
• £1.0 million for an AminoMax plant in Watertown, New York State, scheduled 
to commence production in November 2011
• £2.5 million acquisition of agricultural related businesses
• £0.9 million for fuel oils depots at Hexham (opened in August 2011) and 
Cockermouth (scheduled to open spring 2012)
• £3.5 million to replace Wälischmiller Engineering factory scheduled for 
completion in 2013
• £0.6 million for a feedblock plant in Shelbyville, Tennessee, scheduled to 
commence production in November 2011
• £0.6m for a new robotic packaging facility at Silloth
Of the above £9.9 million investment programme, £5.0 million was incurred in the 
period to 3 September 2011 and £4.0 million is expected to be incurred in the 
current financial year.
Staff
This year’s excellent results have been made possible by the experienced, focussed 
and dedicated staff throughout the company. We have many members of staff with 
over 20 years’ service and it is this loyalty, coupled with their desire to see the 
company succeed, that makes them such an asset.
I welcome our members of staff joining this year through acquisitions. Following the 
sale of Carrs Fertilisers, I would like to record my appreciation to our colleagues in 
that business for their contribution over the years and wish them every success in the 
future.
My thanks, and that of the board, go to all colleagues in the UK, USA and Europe 
for their tremendous commitment to the continued development and growth of the 
company.
Profit before tax  
by sector
Agriculture
£6.4m 
3% up from 2010
Food
£1.3m 
17% down from 2010
Engineering
£1.7m 
69% up from 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2011     05 Carrs Billington Agriculture 
have a wide range of fuel 
products and services for 
domestic, agricultural and 
commercial customers. 
We are committed to providing 
professional customer services and  
we pride ourselves on reliable, efficient 
deliveries, while working hard for our 
customers, to make sure they get the 
most competitive prices from the market.
Agriculture
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Revenue for the year grew by 26.7 per cent to £272.7 
million (2010: £215.2 million) with profit before tax and  
non-recurring items increasing by 12.1 per cent to £7.0 
million (2010: £6.2 million).  
Profit before tax, including contribution from associate and joint ventures, increased by 16.9 per 
cent to £8.2 million (2010: £7.0 million).
Overall, farmgate prices during 2010/11 were favourable and UK milk prices, whilst remaining 
low during the year, have recently started to increase to more economically viable levels. UK 
feedblock sales benefited from the severe winter, although sales in the US were lower than 
expected in the first half before recovering well in the second half. 
Caltech, the animal feedblock business, has continued to perform well with growing demand  
in existing markets and the successful entry into new markets being reflected in a significant 
increase in sales and profit. 
06
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Profit before tax
£6.4m 
2010: £6.2m
Revenue
£272.7m 
2010: £215.2m
In the UK, the integration of Scotmin Nutrition, the feed supplements business acquired in June 
2010, was completed to plan. This included a reorganisation and investment programme to 
reduce costs, improve production efficiency and support the future growth of the enlarged 
business. During the second half, strong demand for Crystalyx in New Zealand was reflected in a 
substantial increase in exports. The early success, in France and elsewhere in Europe, of our joint 
venture with Crystalyx Products in Germany has continued, resulting in increased sales and profit 
for the year.
The US animal feedblock business performed strongly in the second half following a disappointing 
first half when heavy snow prevented delivery in key areas. For the year overall, revenue 
increased and, whilst profit fell as the result of lower margins in the first half, current demand is 
encouraging.
The new AminoMax plant in Watertown, New York State, will start production in November 
2011. This is later than originally anticipated because of an unexpected delay in the delivery 
of certain equipment, which has now been installed. In the meantime, demand in the US for 
AminoMax, the patented rumen bypass protein which improves the yield and profitability of dairy 
herds, has been encouraging and the new plant is expected to make a positive contribution for 
the current year. 
In the UK the Group gained market share of compound and blended animal feeds against a 
background of rising and volatile wheat prices, which peaked 70.0 per cent higher than in 
2009/10, for much of the year. The impact of forward buying a portion of our raw materials 
requirement, combined with efficiencies, extra volume and better margins, meant we were able  
to record a higher level of profitability. Bibby Agriculture, our joint venture, which sells animal 
feeds mainly in Wales, had a good year with volume and profit growing strongly.
Retail sales at Carrs Billington grew, reflecting a full year’s contribution from Forsyths of (Wooler) 
Limited, acquired in September 2010, and market share gains from the enhanced range of 
products, from animal health products to silage wraps, sold through the enlarged network of 20 
branches. In April 2011, the Group acquired Safe at Work Limited, the specialist supplier of 
protective clothing to the forestry and agricultural markets, which has been successfully integrated 
and made a positive contribution in the period. Overall margins increased as the result of 
improved terms agreed with suppliers and other benefits of scale.
Farm machinery sales increased by 18.0 per cent on last year with profitability being maintained. 
The sales of Massey Ferguson tractors and the enlarged machinery range, including the Kuhn 
franchise established in September 2010, continue to be encouraging.
Fuel oils increased sales by 37.0 per cent on the prior year, reflecting the expansion of the 
customer base, the steep rise in the oil price, the impact of the depot opened at Lancaster in 
September 2010 and strong organic growth. Total sales volume was up approximately 15.4 
per cent on last year with margins improving. As a result of our strong focus on customer service 
and competitive pricing, particularly during the winter months, we increased our market share by 
gaining and retaining new customers. A new depot at Hexham was opened in August 2011 and 
we are planning further investment in this sector, including a depot at Cockermouth scheduled to 
open in the spring of 2012.
Carrs Fertilisers (sold in July 2011)
For the period to disposal, revenue from the fertiliser blending business was £78.4 million on 
which profit before tax was £3.1 million.
As a result of the disposal, the Group is no longer subject to the extreme price and working 
capital volatility associated with the fertiliser business over recent years. As part of the transaction 
we secured a supply agreement to supply fertiliser to our Carrs Billington customers over an initial 
period of five years. 
Annual Report & Accounts 2011     07 08
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Food
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
Revenue for the year from our three flour mills, Kirkcaldy Fife, 
Silloth Cumbria and Maldon Essex was up by 23.1 per cent 
to £82.6 million (2010: £67.1 million) with profit before tax 
falling by 16.6 per cent to £1.3 million (2010: £1.5 million).
Over-capacity in the UK milling industry continues to be an issue and this, combined with 
ongoing price volatility in the wheat market, resulted in a challenging environment for our  
food business. The significant increase in revenue primarily reflects higher wheat prices  
year on year which, as a result of not being able to pass on these increases in full, resulted  
in lower margins.
We continue to reduce costs. Labour and energy represent our highest costs after raw materials 
and we made significant savings in both areas.
Working closely with Forth Ports we re-opened the port of Kirkcaldy to grain ships. We invested 
£0.8m net of a freight facility grant from Transport Directorate of Scotland. The benefits of 
this project are three-fold, a financial benefit for our Kirkcaldy Mill, the benefit of consistently 
available quality wheat, and an environmental benefit of removing 250,000 truck miles and 
4,000 lorry journeys off the road.
Grain from Canada and Germany, which was previously trucked from ports in Liverpool and 
Perth respectively, will now be shipped directly to Kirkcaldy, as will wheat from the south east 
of England, meaning the mill will not be so reliant on wheat grown in the north of England.
Profit before tax
£1.3m 
2010: £1.5m
Revenue
£82.6m 
2010: £67.1m Annual Report & Accounts 2011     09
Kirkcaldy port opens
The port has been upgraded so that it is able 
to receive grain cargo ships in an initiative 
spearheaded by Carr’s after the harbour fell into 
disrepair almost 20 years ago.
Carr’s Flour Managing Director, Duncan Monroe, 
added, “It is very exciting to see ships berthing 
alongside our grain silo once more. As well as the 
obvious environmental benefits, sea freight helps 
ensure an uninterrupted supply of the best quality 
bread wheats. This means that in years such as 
this, when the wheat harvest in Scotland has been 
difficult, we can still supply our customer with the 
consistent quality products they are used to. Our 
business has been in Kirkcaldy for nearly 200 years 
and we believe that this project will bring great 
benefit not only to our business but also to our 
customers and the local people of Kirkcaldy.”
Nik Scott-Gray, Business Development Manager 
of Forth Ports, said, “We are delighted to see 
Kirkcaldy a working harbour once again”. This 
coastal shipping initiative will reduce the lorry 
journeys by around 4,000 per year, and deliver a 
greener transport alternative, with one recent wheat 
shipment from Tilbury to Kirkcaldy over 17 times 
more carbon efficient than using the road.
Peter Devlin of Devlin Photo Ltd Engineering
Chief Executive’s Review - continued
As anticipated, a strong performance in the second half of the 
period and growing order book resulted in profit before tax for 
the year increasing by 68.7 per cent to £1.7 million (2010: 
£1.0 million) on revenue up by 13.8 per cent to £18.0 million 
(2010: £15.8 million) following a fall in the first half.
The profit before tax after adding back £203,000 for impairment of assets was £1.9 million,  
an increase of 89.4 per cent over last year.
 
Wälischmiller Engineering, the remote handling technology and robotics business, has 
experienced very strong demand, particularly in France, Germany, Japan, Korea and Russia.  
The strong level of demand is reflected in the order book which had grown to €38.0 million 
at 31 October 2011 (2010: €17.0 million) and Wälischmiller is now quoting for deliveries 
in 2014 and beyond. In Wälischmiller’s core nuclear market, projects in China, Japan and 
Germany, with a total value of €4.5 million, were completed during the second half as planned, 
including the first of eight TELBOTS
®
 specialist robots. In July 2011, Wälischmiller won a €6.5 
million contract for a nuclear decommissioning project in Russia on which design work has now 
commenced and which is due for completion in early 2013. Outside the nuclear market, wins 
include a contract with LBO in Norway, a main contractor to Shell, for the design and supply of  
a TELBOT
®
 system for cleaning tanks.
In support of future growth, we are investing approximately €4.0 million in a new factory at 
Markdorf, South West Germany, scheduled for completion in 2013 and which will largely replace 
the existing facility.
Bendalls Engineering, the specialist steel fabrication business, made substantial progress in the 
project to supply a major vessel for the Evaporator D project at Sellafield, which is the UK‘s 
largest nuclear project, with delivery expected in early 2012. Financial performance for the year 
also benefited from the project to supply pressure vessels to Bechtel in the US for the nuclear 
decommissioning plant at Hanford, Washington State.
At Carrs MSM, the Swindon-based supplier of remote handling equipment to the UK nuclear 
industry, demand increased in the second half of the period following the completion by its major 
customer of a major reorganisation and operations review.
Chris Holmes
Chief Executive Officer
17 November 2011
Profit before tax
£1.7m 
2010: £1.0m
Revenue
£18.0m 
2010: £15.8m
10
     Carr’s Milling Industries PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011     11
Wälischmiller –  
High Technology 
with Tradition.
Wälischmiller Engineering 
is specialist in remote 
handling, robotics and 
radiation protection for use 
in environments inaccessible 
to humans. The need to ensure 
the highest level of safety in these 
environments means that all our 
products are designed and manufactured 
to the highest levels of quality. Our focus on 
product quality and operational safety marks us out 
as unique in the market. Our company slogan influences 
us everyday and in everything we do.
“Quality for Safety”
