 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 02
Chairman’s 
Statement
The strong financial performance achieved by Carr’s for the 52 weeks ended  
1 September 2012 reflects organic growth in Agriculture and Engineering as well as 
successful expansion in selected overseas markets. 
A particular feature of this period’s results was a doubling of 
the contribution to Group profit before taxation from overseas 
businesses to just over 48 per cent.
In Agriculture, the business is increasingly focused on proprietary 
products developed to improve livestock performance and 
profitability. Following significant investment and research in this 
area, we are experiencing strong demand for our products in North 
America, Europe and New Zealand, as well as in the UK, and expect 
this trend to continue.
Strong demand from the nuclear industry in China, France, Germany, 
Japan, Russia, the UK and USA is reflected in the increasing 
contribution of Engineering, which accounted for 36 per cent  
(2011: 17 per cent) of total Group profit before tax for the period. 
Overall, the growth in the value of the Engineering order book is 
providing significant visibility of revenues for the next two years.
The performance of the Food division continues to be depressed 
by long-term over-capacity in the flour industry. Following a detailed 
review of the options for improving the financial performance of the 
flour milling business, the Board has approved the construction of 
a state-of-the-art flour mill adjacent to the Port of Kirkcaldy for a 
total investment of £17 million. This new flour mill, which will replace 
the existing mill, will be at the forefront of mill design, innovation 
and technology, with commissioning expected in September 2013. 
This mill, alongside the re-opened port in Kirkcaldy, will continue to 
produce the high quality product associated with the Carr’s name for 
decades. The Board believes that this investment, once completed, 
should result in significant financial benefits to be derived from 
new sales, operational efficiencies, input cost savings and margin 
improvements.
Investment has been crucial to the success of Carr’s and forms 
a central part of our plans for future profitable growth. During the 
period, a total of £2.0 million was invested in acquisitions  
(Clive Walton Engineering, and the asset purchases of agricultural 
chemists, Laycocks, and animal feed business Afgritech, a joint 
venture of the Group). In addition, a total of £7.0 million was invested 
in Phase I of the new Wälischmiller factory in Germany, a new high 
moisture feed block plant in Tennessee, expansion of our agriculture 
branches and initial expenditure on the new flour mill at Kirkcaldy.
Financial Review
Revenue for the period increased by 8.2 per cent to £404.1 million 
(2011: £373.3 million). Profit before taxation was up 30.5 per cent to 
£13.1 million (2011: £10.0 million).
Basic earnings per share for the period were up by 27.5 per cent to 
98.2 pence (2011: 77.0 pence) with fully diluted earnings per share 
of 97.5 pence (2011: 76.3 pence) and adjusted earnings per share of 
101.5 pence (2011: 88.4 pence).
The net cash generated from continuing operations was £8.3 million  
(2011: £11.4 million). At the end of the period, the Group had 
net debt of £2.5 million compared to net cash of £4.6 million at 
3 September 2011. This reflected total investment and capital 
expenditure during the period of £8.9 million, an increase in working 
capital of £2.0 million, and a contribution to the deficit in the pension 
scheme of £3.3 million.
On 11 November 2011, the Group restructured part of its bank 
facilities with the Clydesdale Bank and with the exception of the 
bank overdraft of £5.0 million, which is renewed annually, the other 
facilities, revolving credit of £10.0 million and term loan of  
£2.5 million, are committed through to November 2014.
As a result of planned investments, we expect net debt to increase 
during the current period. On the basis that overall trading continues 
to be favourable, with maintained margins and strong operational 
cash flow, we expect gearing and interest cover to remain well within 
our conservative levels. This sound financial position means that 
Carr’s is well placed to continue to fund its existing investment plans.
Richard Inglewood 
Chairman Overview
Business Review
Corporate Governance
Financial Statements
Carr’s Milling Industries PLC
Annual Report and Accounts  2012 03
Dividend
The Board is proposing an 11.5 per cent increase in the final 
dividend to 14.5 pence per ordinary share which, together with the 
two interim dividends of 7.25 pence per share each, paid in May 
and October 2012, makes a total of 29.0 pence per share for the 
year (2011: 26.0 pence per share). The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders, will be paid on 18 January 2013 to shareholders on 
the register at the close of business on 21 December 2012 and the 
shares will go ex-dividend on 19 December 2012.  
Board Changes
On 23 October 2012, it was announced that I will retire as Chairman 
and non-executive Director on 28 February 2013. Chris Holmes 
will retire as Chief Executive Officer at the same time to become 
Chairman, with Tim Davies being appointed as Chief Executive 
Officer with effect from 1 March 2013. 
It was announced on 6 July 2012 that Ron Wood is retiring as 
Finance Director on 30 April 2013 to be succeeded by Neil Austin. 
The current Assistant Company Secretary, Katie Sinclair, will take 
over Ron Wood’s position as Company Secretary with effect from  
1 January 2013. In addition to being an outstanding Board colleague 
and Finance Director, Ron Wood has held Board responsibility 
for the Engineering division which he will continue to support in a 
consultancy role for approximately 18 months from the date of 
his retirement. 
These changes to the Board represent the implementation of a 
succession plan under consideration for some time and will result 
in a top quality management team best placed to take Carr’s to the 
next stage of its existing development.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my Board colleagues for 
their enthusiasm and support during my time at Carr’s. It has been 
a privilege to serve as Chairman for the last seven successful years 
and I am certain that the Group will continue to grow and prosper in 
the future.
Outlook
The challenge for Carr’s after the strong period of financial 
performance experienced in 2012 is how to build on it and  
grow further. 
We view 2013 with optimism, boosted by the likely benefits of the 
considerable investments we have made and are making across all 
three divisions of the Group.
The considerable advance in Engineering revenues and profit  
before tax marks a step change in the size, breadth and capability of 
that division. The order book, particularly overseas, is strong  
and the visibility of revenues gives us confidence that the year’s 
outturn can be matched.
The Food division, by contrast, continues to suffer from the  
well-rehearsed issues of over-capacity and pressure from customers 
but remains profitable. Wheat prices remain high as a consequence 
of the poor UK harvest with lower yields and poorer quality although 
the position of our mills near ports, equipped to take wheat from 
mainland Europe gives us some competitive advantage. However, 
we do not expect any significant improvement in profitability until our 
new state of the art plant at Kirkcaldy is commissioned at the end of 
the current financial period.
Against that background, it is likely that the Agriculture division will 
be the main source of growth in 2013. The current period has started 
well, benefiting from strong sales of animal feed in the UK and 
particularly in the USA where forage quality is poor, caused by 
the drought conditions in many states. We also expect good growth 
from a full year’s production of AminoMax, the patented rumen 
bypass protein at the plant at Watertown, New York State. As 
before, the drivers of growth in the division are the demand for Carr’s 
proprietary products for livestock across all markets as well as the 
expansion of the retail, machinery franchise and fuel depot networks 
in the UK.
In pursuit of our objectives, the Group continues to evaluate 
acquisition and other investment opportunities with vigour, assisted 
by our strong balance sheet and cash flow.
Richard Inglewood
Chairman 
16 November 2012
Photos
Left: Watertown plant
Centre: Megastart
New mill at Kirkcaldy
Right: Evaporator D
Investment has been crucial to  
the success of Carr’s and forms  
a central part of our plans for  
future profitable growth.
“
“
