 02
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
CHRIS HOLMES  
CHAIRMAN
This commitment from the team, combined 
with the performance of the Group’s strategic 
investments in joint ventures and associate, 
resulted in a 21.5% increase in profit before tax. 
Our international operations contributed 46.6% 
of the Group’s profit before tax. 
During the year the Group further capitalised on 
its well invested assets, expanded trading with 
new customers and formed new collaborations 
with a view to further geographical and product 
expansion. “A perfect storm” of weather 
conditions, with a wet summer in 2012 followed 
by a long winter lasting through to Easter 2013 
in the UK and widespread droughts covering 
the majority of the USA in 2012, supported the 
strong performance of our Agriculture and Food 
divisions. The Engineering division, particularly 
Carrs MSM and Wälischmiller, continued to 
perform well due to our innovative product 
offering and on-going development in new 
technologies.
STRATEGy
Our strategic vision is to be recognised as a 
truly international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology across Agriculture, 
Food and Engineering. The way in which we 
achieve this must reflect changes in markets 
and customers, together with a constant 
assessment of returns for shareholders.
REVIEW OF THE yEAR
Ron Wood retired as Group Finance Director on  
30 April, and I stepped down as Chief Executive 
on 28 February, taking over as Chairman from 
Lord Inglewood, who retired on the same date.  
I am pleased to confirm that Tim Davies, who 
was appointed as our new Chief Executive 
Officer on 1 March, and Neil Austin, our new 
Group Finance Director, have got off to a strong 
start, building on the established foundations 
and driving the Group forward. I am sure 
that this very strong team will help to ensure 
continuing growth across the Group’s three 
divisions. 
In spite of these significant changes, I am 
pleased to report that the Group achieved a 
record profit for the year, building on last year’s 
success. This success can be attributed to 
strong operational performance, on-going pursuit 
of our strategic aims, benefits from innovation 
and the investments that we’ve made, as well 
as assistance from adverse weather conditions, 
particularly in the UK and the USA.
All divisions exceeded budget expectations 
demonstrating management’s ability to adapt to 
changing environments, as well as continuing to 
provide our high quality products and excellent 
customer service, whilst also pursuing new 
opportunities through geographical expansion 
and product development. 
Our aim for this year and beyond is to 
continue to innovate and drive growth and 
customer service excellence. To achieve this 
we are looking at further product research and 
development and the continued search for 
complementary acquisitions.
EMPLOyEES
The success of the Group would not be possible 
without management implementing strategy 
and our employees adopting our “can do” 
culture, alongside their own desire to see the 
Group succeed. Despite the global nature of 
our business, all our employees have embraced 
our culture, and on behalf of the Board I would 
like to thank all of them for their continued 
dedication and effort throughout a very busy 
year.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Revenue for the period increased by 15.8% to 
£468.1 million (2012: £404.1 million). Profit 
before tax was up 21.5% to £15.9 million 
(2012: £13.1 million).
Basic earnings per share for the period  
were up by 31.1% to 128.7 pence (2012:  
98.2 pence) with fully diluted earnings per 
share of 126.4 pence (2012: 97.5 pence) and 
adjusted earnings per share of 128.7 pence 
(2012: 101.5 pence).
Net cash generated from operating activities 
was £4.0 million (2012: £8.3 million). At the 
end of the period the Group had net debt of 
£22.1 million compared to net debt of £2.5 
million at 1 September 2012. This increase 
in net debt largely reflected total capital 
expenditure during the period of £19.1 million, 
of which £9.2 million was subsequently 
refinanced on a long term finance lease, and  
we continue to operate with ample headroom. 
Working capital increased by £9.0 million 
and contributions to the deficit in the pension 
scheme totalled £2.9 million.
During the year the Group extended its 
revolving credit facility from £10.0 million to 
£15.0 million, and with the exception of the 
bank overdraft facility of £5.0 million, which 
is renewed annually, the other facilities are 
committed through to November 2014. 
Even after a period of substantial capital 
investment, our gearing and interest cover 
This has been an exciting year of transition for Carr’ s with  
a number of senior Board changes made, underpinned by 
another strong trading performance.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 03
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
remain well within our conservative levels.  
This sound financial position means that Carr’s 
is well placed to continue to make strategic 
investments to drive growth in our businesses.
DIVIDEND
The Board is proposing a 13.8% increase in 
the final dividend to 16.5 pence per ordinary 
share, which together with the two interim 
dividends of 7.75 pence per share each, paid 
in May and October 2013, make a total of 32.0 
pence per share for the year (2012: 29.0 pence 
per share). The final dividend, if approved by 
shareholders, will be paid on 17 January 2014 
to shareholders on the register at the close of 
business on 20 December 2013 and the shares 
will go ex-dividend on 18 December 2013.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND CORPORATE 
GOVERNANCE
I was delighted that the Board requested that 
on Tim Davies’ appointment as Chief Executive, 
I take over as Chairman, initially in an Executive 
capacity before becoming Non-Executive 
Chairman on 1 August. All the Board changes 
have been effected very smoothly, assisted by 
the continuing Non-Executive Directors Alistair 
Wannop and Robert Heygate, along with the 
senior management across the Group.
The Company takes its corporate governance 
responsibilities very seriously and a full report on 
Corporate Governance is on pages 23 to 26. 
I would like to take this opportunity to thank 
Lord Inglewood for his contribution as both 
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of 
the Company through many successful and 
challenging years. I would also like to thank 
Ron Wood for his commitment and dedication 
to the Company over 25 years. It was a great 
pleasure to work with Ron and, with his support 
and financial tenacity, grow the business to 
the success it has become and will no doubt 
continue to be.
OUTLOOk The current financial year has got off to a  
strong start. The investments that we have 
made across the Group in terms of acquisitions, 
organic growth, and in our people are all making 
a contribution to the year’s performance.
While the weather conditions that provided 
“the perfect storm” are unlikely to be repeated, 
the Agriculture division will benefit from the 
investment in the expansion of the UK and 
USA AminoMax
®
 facilities. The expansion of 
operations in the USA, with the new business 
in Silver Springs, Nevada, and the joint 
venture operation at Iowa, will provide greater 
geographical coverage in the USA, and expand 
our existing customer network.
Following the commissioning of our 
new Kirkcaldy flour mill, further margin 
improvement is expected in this and future 
years. The Board is confident in achieving the 
financial benefits, operational efficiencies and 
input savings as expected. 
Development of Wälischmiller’s new factory 
and office facilities in Markdorf, Germany 
are due for completion in December and the 
technologically advanced operations will benefit 
from this investment, ensuring enhanced 
production efficiencies. This, coupled with 
on-going product development, provides us with 
exciting opportunities in the short to medium 
term. However, the associated one-off relocation 
costs, coupled with the decrease in nuclear 
work for the UK businesses, are expected to 
result in a reduced level of profitability  
from this division compared to the  
current year.
The Group remains ideally placed to  
capitalise on future opportunities,  
with a strong balance sheet and well  
invested assets. The Board will continue  
to look at how best to achieve its  
strategic aims and achieve optimal  
returns for its shareholders.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
15 November 2013
The Group achieved  
record profit for the  
year, building on last  
year’s success.
