 04
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S
REVIEW
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
In addition, we will continue to assess potential 
acquisitions to establish if they complement the 
business, support our growth plans, further our 
strategic vision and provide shareholders with a 
solid return on investment. 
INVESTMENT
Our on-going investment programme provides 
the Group with a platform for future growth 
across all three of our divisions.
In the period, the major investment projects 
completed, commenced and proposed include:
•  £0.8 million for Western Feed Supplements, 
Silver Springs, Nevada, low moisture  
block plant
• Acquired in June 2013
•  £0.7 million for joint venture ACC Feed 
Supplement, Sioux city, low moisture  
block plant
• Agreement signed in August 2013
•  £1.4 million for agriculture retail, branch 
expansion Carlisle
• Opened in May 2013
•  £0.2 million for AminoMax
®
 Plant, Lancaster, 
UK
• Commenced operation July 2013
•  £0.8 million for AminoMax
®
 Watertown, New 
York State expansion
• Completed November 2013
•  £17.0 million for flour mill, Kirkcaldy, Scotland
• Commenced operation September 2013
•  £4.5 million for Wälischmiller factory and 
office development, Germany
• Phase 3 due for completion December 2013
I am pleased to report record profit before tax for 
the Group, up 21.5% for the period, building on 
last year’ s success.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£8.8m
7.9% up from 2012
FOOD 
£0.6m
26.5% up from 2012
ENGINEERING 
£4.2m
10.6% down from 2012
OVERVIEW 
Carr’s operates across a variety of markets both 
in the UK and Internationally. The common 
thread linking our Agriculture, Food and 
Engineering divisions together is the level of 
innovation, technology and research employed 
by all divisions, which drives current and future 
growth.
Since taking over as CEO on 1 March 2013, 
I have had the chance to visit the majority of 
sites in the countries in which we operate and I 
have been consistently impressed by our state 
of the art operations and by the professionalism, 
ingenuity and skills of our people across the 
business.
It is my belief that this powerful combination 
of great people and well invested assets has 
created a strong platform on which the Group 
can continue to develop and prosper in the 
future. 
STRATEGy
The strength and potential of the Group lies in 
its unique market position and focus on product 
diversification. Our strategic vision is to be a 
truly international business at the forefront of 
innovation and technology.
To achieve this vision, we need to build on 
our investment in key operational assets, 
expand our research capabilities and ensure 
we continue to roll out innovative products 
into the market place. We currently have ten 
significant research projects commissioned 
and in progress covering a wide range of 
activities including product efficacy in differing 
environments, and enhanced performance and 
development of new and existing products. This 
investment will continue to provide all divisions 
in the Group with new opportunities.  OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
05
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
AGRICULTURE
The weather both in the UK and USA had a 
significant impact on the performance of our 
Agriculture division driving the sales of feed, 
feed blocks, fuel and animal health products 
during the year. In the UK the wet autumn 
had an adverse impact on the quality of forage 
available and the duration and intensity of 
the 2012/13 winter accelerated sales. In the 
USA, the summer droughts of 2012 covered 
two thirds of the land area and 80% of the 
nation’s farm land resulting in low quality 
forage. As in the UK, the subsequent harsh 
winter conditions have not been favourable for 
farmers, having a detrimental impact on farm 
incomes.
Importantly, there was underlying growth 
and market share gains beyond the impact 
of the weather that supported the record 
performance in Agriculture, particularly 
the increasing recognition and sales of our 
branded products AminoMax
®
, Crystalyx
®
, 
Smartlic
®
 and Feed in a Drum
®
.
Retail sales in the UK increased by 23% over 
the prior year attributable to the prolonged, 
wet winter and our enhanced Country Store 
retail network. Despite difficult winter 
conditions in the UK our high customer service 
levels were maintained due to the dedication 
of our staff. Feed sales increased by 15% over 
the last year as a direct result of the winter 
conditions and heating oil, gasoline and diesel 
sales also benefitted from the weather.  
However, we continued to deliver on our 
strategy of focusing on core trading areas, 
providing a full complement of products 
Profit before tax for the period increased by 7.9% to £8.8 million (2012:  
£8.1 million) on revenue up by 15.9% to £340.4 million (2012: £293.8 million). 
Profit before tax for the period, including contributions from associate and joint 
ventures, increased by 22.5% to £11.6 million (2012: £9.5 million).
and services for the developing needs of our 
customers. Previous investments at fuel depot 
sites in Lancaster, Cockermouth, Hexham 
and Carlisle also contributed to the improved 
performance.
Our branded feed blocks (Crystalyx
®
, 
Smartlic
®
 and Feed in a Drum
®
) continue 
to achieve significant sales growth. We 
have commissioned university research 
in four areas, to continue to develop our 
portfolio of low moisture block products. 
Significant growth in this area combined with 
market share gains and favourable weather 
conditions, resulted in sales of feed blocks 
increasing by 9%. 
To support customer demand and future 
growth into new markets our USA subsidiary, 
Animal Feed Supplement Inc (“AFS“), 
purchased Western Feed Supplements, a low 
moisture feed block manufacturer in Silver 
Springs, Nevada in June 2013 for  
£0.8 million. The plant is strategically located 
close to the significant cattle populations 
in California which could not previously be 
accessed cost effectively from our existing 
plants. In August 2013, a joint venture 
company, ACC Feed Supplement LLC, was 
formed between AFS, our wholly owned USA 
subsidiary and Consumer Supply Distributing 
LLC (“CSD”) to establish a low moisture feed 
block plant at CSD’s plant in Sioux City, Iowa. 
The plant will supply products through both 
companies’ existing sales and distribution 
networks, and is expected to commence 
production in the fourth quarter of 2014.
AminoMax
®
, the patented rumen bypass 
protein product, produced at Watertown,  
New York State, increased sales on the 
previous year. Based on future customer 
demand for AminoMax
®
 we have invested  
with our JV partner a further £1.6 million  
to increase the plant capacity by 65%.  
The extended plant commences operation  
this month.
As a key element of our strategy to be 
recognised as the leading dairy nutrition 
company, a new state-of-the-art AminoMax
®
 
plant was commissioned at our Lancaster 
feed mill in July 2013. The successful 
commissioning process was supported by the 
management team from Watertown, USA.
We remain positive about the future prospects 
for the Agriculture division. With ongoing 
focus on research and development of further 
beneficial livestock products, we will continue 
to extend the reach of our products and 
services both in the UK and internationally.
REVENUE  
£340.4m
2013 £340.4m
2012 £293.8m
2011 £272.7m 06
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW continued
FOOD
Revenue increased for our Food division by 17.0% to £94.2 million 
and profit increased by 26.5% to £0.6 million.
Eighteen months ago the Board approved the 
£17 million investment in a new state-of–the-
art mill at Kirkcaldy, Scotland. In September 
2013, flour milling production commenced 
at the new mill. This strategic investment 
in a new technologically advanced mill was 
made against a backdrop of overcapacity in 
the UK flour milling market, substantial under 
investment in flour milling assets across the 
industry and ever increasing demands from 
customers for higher food safety standards. 
This investment will allow us not only to meet 
our customers’ needs and expectations but 
also to return the Food division to improved 
levels of financial performance. We expect to 
see the benefits of the Group’s investment start 
to be realised through 2014 with an increase 
in underlying performance expected to be 
fully realised in the short to medium term, 
driven from a mix of cost savings and planned 
operational efficiencies. The building of the 
new mill has been completed on time and 
within budget which is of great credit to all  
our team who have shown remarkable 
dedication and skill in delivering this project. 
The 2012 wheat harvest in the UK was the 
worst in living memory both in terms of yield 
and quality. In contrast, the 2013 UK wheat 
harvest is expected to be good quality albeit 
due to the poor weather in 2012 planting was 
reduced and therefore the crop is the smallest 
since 2001. The position of our two northern 
mills, Kirkcaldy, Scotland and Silloth, 
Cumbria at port locations has been key to 
the improved performance of the division. 
Investment by the Forth Ports Authority and 
ourselves to open the Kirkcaldy harbour 
in 2012 has reaped significant rewards as 
we were able to source quality wheat from 
international markets with great flexibility 
and lower logistics costs. The ability to 
source quality wheat from different markets, 
including the UK, is key to risk management 
within the division. 
REVENUE  
£94.2m
2013 £94.2m
2012 £80.5m
2011 £82.6m OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
07
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
ENGINEERING
Profit before tax for the period decreased by 10.6% to £4.2 million (2012: 
£4.7 million) on revenue up by 12.4% to £33.4 million (2012: £29.7 million). 
The objectives of the Engineering division 
are aligned with those of the Group, and our 
strategy to achieve this is by investing in the 
growth and development of the Engineering 
business through research, innovation and 
acquisition.
Wälischmiller, the remote handling and 
robotics business based in Germany, has 
had an exceptionally successful year. The 
second phase of the £4.5 million investment 
in the new factory and offices at Markdorf 
is in the final phase and will complete in 
December 2013. The logistics of transferring 
the final phase of plant across to the new 
factory will cause a degree of disruption to 
production with some additional one-off costs 
to be incurred as a result. The more efficient 
production layout and the investment in 
technology will optimise operations in the 
forthcoming year.  
The experienced engineering design team 
continue to research and develop market 
leading and bespoke products for the 
nuclear industry and the oil and gas market, 
representing significant new opportunities  
for the business. A development contract  
with Statoil and Shell in Norway is on-going 
for the adaptation of Telbot
®
, the remote 
controlled robotic arm, for use in tank 
inspection. Wälischmiller recently exhibited  
at the International Robot Exhibition in Japan, 
which is the worldwide exhibition on robots 
and robotics for many industries including 
the nuclear and oil and gas industries. At 
the exhibition, the A100 and Joyarm robotic 
arm, were exhibited as well as the V1000, 
a remote-controlled handling vehicle, which 
is a new innovative product which has the 
ability to be completely tailored to customer 
requirements and can work in combination with, 
alongside or separately to the other products of 
Wälischmiller. 
Carrs MSM based in Swindon, Wiltshire builds 
and services manipulators used mainly in the 
nuclear industry and research centres. In the 
period it has achieved record turnover building 
on the success of last year as it continues 
to execute sales based on the “life of plant” 
contract with Sellafield, signed in 2012. 
Under the contract Carrs MSM supply master 
slave manipulator parts critical for the major 
operating plants at Sellafield.
Bendalls, the specialist fabricator, based in 
Carlisle is in the process of completing the 
delayed £4 million pressure vessel contract  
for a floating production, storage and offloading 
platform being built by Hyundai for the BP 
Quad 204 area. The post-delivery contract 
issues with Bechtel in the USA reported last 
year have been resolved at an additional cost  
of £0.5 million. While future contracts remain 
at a low level due to the lack of activity in the 
UK nuclear industry, particularly at Sellafield, 
new decommissioning projects are expected to 
commence in 2014 and Bendalls is well placed 
to capitalise on these opportunities. In the short 
term, the focus of Bendalls’ current contracts is 
with the oil and gas industry.
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
15 November 2013
REVENUE  
£33.4m
2013 £33.4m
2012 £29.7m
2011 £18.0m
