 04
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chairman’s Statement
REviEW OF thE YEAR
I am pleased to report that the Group 
achieved another record profit before tax 
this year, building on the successes of recent 
years. This achievement can be attributed 
to a strong operational performance across 
the business. Each division performed well, 
driven by the benefits from research and 
development, innovation, global geographic 
diversity and the strategic investments the 
Board has made. 
In the financial year 2012/2013 the harsh 
UK weather made a significant positive 
contribution to the Group’s profit before tax 
in that period. This year the UK experienced 
a mild winter, resulting in lower revenues, 
however, the impact of this was offset by 
the severe weather conditions in the USA, 
particularly in the Mid-Atlantic States. This 
resulted in record sales of our feed blocks 
and increased recognition of our brands. 
In addition, the Group benefited from the 
increased sales both in the UK and USA 
of AminoMax
®
. Retail sales grew 0.5%, 
further endorsing our continued investment 
programme in our Country Stores across 
Northern England and Southern Scotland, 
with enlarged branches at Annan and Brock 
opening during the year. 
The now fully operational flour mill at 
Kirkcaldy has delivered the anticipated 
benefits to the Food division, and this coupled 
with the continuing excellent customer service 
from all our flour mills has resulted in the 
expected increase to the profit before tax for 
the division.
Significant investment was made through the 
year in our Engineering division, particularly with 
Net cash generated from operating activities 
was £12.5 million (2013: £4.0 million). At the 
end of the period the Group had net debt  
of £24.6 million compared to net debt of 
£22.1 million at 31 August 2013. This increase 
reflects acquisition activity in the year and 
our ongoing significant capital investment 
programme.
Working capital increased by £1.6 million  
and contributions to the deficit in the pension 
scheme totalled £2.8 million.
During the year the Group renewed its 
banking facilities for a 5 year period at 
improved margins. Our headroom against 
existing facilities at the year-end was  
£17.4 million. Borrowing and interest 
cover continue to remain well within our 
conservative levels, meaning that we are  
well placed to make strategic investments  
or acquisitions.
ShARE SpLit
The Board considers it appropriate to propose 
at the Company’s Annual General Meeting on  
13 January 2015, a sub-division of the 
existing ordinary shares on the basis of a 
ten for one share split, thereby reducing the 
nominal value of the existing ordinary shares 
to 2.5 pence each. It is anticipated that such 
a sub-division will improve the liquidity of the 
market in the Company’s shares and reduce 
the bid/offer spread of the Company’s shares. 
Further details will be set out in the Notice of 
the Annual General Meeting.
More information is contained on page 24. 
the acquisition of Chirton Engineering Limited in 
April 2014. The new facility for Wälischmiller at 
Markdorf, Germany was completed during the 
year. The Engineering division met its budgetary 
targets for the year, despite a lack of nuclear 
contracts in the UK and escalating economic 
and political issues worldwide.
viSiON
In the coming year we will continue to build 
on our success and make investments across 
the Group both in the UK and overseas for the 
future. We expect our innovative approach, 
in particular in the development of new 
products, to continue to differentiate us from 
the competition and we will remain alert to 
suitable complementary acquisitions.
EmpLOYEES
Our employees across each division and 
countries in which we operate are our key 
asset. Their first class skills, knowledge, and 
commitment are a critical factor in the Group’s 
success. On behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank all of them for their hard work during 
the year and their continued support, and to 
also welcome everyone that has joined the 
Group during the year.
 
FiNANCiAL REviEW
Revenue for the period fell by 8.4% to  
£429.0 million (2013: £468.1 million). Profit 
before tax was up 7.8% to £16.6 million 
(2013: £15.4 million).
Basic earnings per share for the period  
were up by 3.1% to 127.8 pence  
(2013: 123.9 pence) with fully diluted earnings 
per share of 123.3 pence (2013: 121.7 pence) 
and adjusted earnings per share of 130.8 
pence (2013: 123.9 pence).
CHRIS HOLMES
CHAIRMAN
Record profits and a robust performance once 
again underline the benefits of the Group’s 
geographic and operational diversity.
Another record year building 
on our operational strength 05
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DiviDEND
The Board is proposing a 3.0% increase in  
the final dividend to 17.0 pence per ordinary 
share which, together with the two interim 
dividends of 8.5p pence per share each paid 
on 16 May and 10 October 2014, make a total 
of 34.0 pence per share for the year (2013: 
32.0 pence per share). The final dividend,  
if approved by shareholders, will be paid  
on 16 January 2015 to shareholders on  
the register at the close of business on  
19 December 2014 and the shares will go  
ex-dividend on 18 December 2014.
BOARD COmpOSitiON AND CORpORAtE 
GOvERNANCE
During the current year ending August 
2015, Alistair Wannop, Senior Independent 
Director and Chairman of the Remuneration 
Committee, will become non-independent  
due to his length of service in accordance  
with the UK Corporate Governance Code 
2012. In order to address this and other 
compliance issues the Board is currently 
undertaking a search for an additional 
independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company takes its corporate governance 
responsibilities very seriously and a full report 
on Corporate Governance is on pages 22  
to 35.
OutLOOK
The Engineering division will continue to 
benefit from Wälischmiller’s advanced 
technological capabilities, and several 
ongoing development projects will continue 
to be progressed over the next year. Global 
political and economic conditions in some 
of its key markets are likely to impact the 
current financial year, although the medium 
term prospects remain very positive. Chirton 
Engineering is expected to start realising 
benefits in its first full year of trading. 
Weak farmgate milk prices will undoubtedly 
have an adverse effect on the farming 
community. However, the diversity of the 
Agriculture division, both operationally and 
geographically, the technical advances 
made by our high quality products such 
as AminoMax
®
, and our highly regarded 
customer service levels will help to mitigate 
some of this impact through this financial year.
The Food division is expecting to realise 
further efficiencies from the Kirkcaldy mill  
and will also benefit from some significant 
new business at the Silloth mill. 
Despite the very mild weather the current 
financial year has started in line with 
expectations, with a strong balance sheet  
and well invested assets, and with our 
continuing investment programme across the 
Group we remain well placed to capitalise on 
future opportunities. The Board will continue 
to look at how best to drive growth and 
achieve optimal returns for its shareholders 
via both organic and acquisitive growth, 
including expanding our geographic footprint.
CHRIS HOLMES
Chairman
12 November 2014
