 10
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
In order to achieve this we have built on the 
investment made throughout 2013, and over 
the last 12 months our investment programme 
has continued across our three divisions. 
Our strategy has four key drivers: outstanding 
people who will shape our business over the 
next five to ten years; innovative products and 
services; acquisitions accelerating our growth; 
and continued investment in assets to sustain 
a long term competitive advantage. These 
elements lie at the heart of all our divisional 
objectives. Whilst we are tremendously proud 
of the record results we have delivered again 
this year, our focus is firmly on the future, 
ensuring we continue to grow a business  
that is a success, delivers for its shareholders, 
and is a great place to work. 
In the period major investment projects 
completed, commenced and proposed 
include:
• £4.5 million Wälischmiller factory and office 
redevelopment
• Phase 3 completed February 2014
• £5.3 million acquisition of Chirton 
Engineering Limited 
• Completed April 2014
• £2.0 million – Annan Country Store
• Opened June 2014
• £1.2 million acquisition of Merit Feeds 
Limited by our associate Carrs Billington 
(Operations) Limited
• Completed July 2014
• $4.1 million ACC Feed Supplement, Sioux 
City, Iowa, USA the construction of a low 
moisture block plant 
• Operation commenced July 2014 
• £0.4 million Brock Country Store, land 
purchased and redeveloped 
• Completed July 2014
• £1.1 million acquisition of B.E. Williams 
Limited 
• Completed July 2014
• £1.1 million acquisition W M Nicholls & Co 
(Crickhowell) Limited
• Completed October 2014
• $1.9 million AminoMax
®
 expansion 
Watertown, USA
• Due to be completed in March 2015
• $3.4 million Silver Springs, Nevada, USA low 
moisture block plant redevelopment
• Due to be completed in summer 2015
PROFIT BEFORE TAX BY SECTOR
AGRICULTURE 
£9.6m
FOOD
£2.3m
ENGINEERING 
£3.7m
9.5% UP from 2013
309.7% UP from 2013
11.7% DOWN from 2013
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’s Review
A year of progressive  
investment 
TIM DAVIES
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Our vision is to be recognised as an  
international business at the forefront  
of innovation and technology across  
Agriculture, Food and Engineering.  11
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
is focused on expanding our knowledge, 
enabling product development and innovation 
throughout our existing distribution network 
and into new territories. Our branded feed 
blocks Crystalyx
®
 continues to show significant 
underlying growth, with the new distribution 
network established in New Zealand resulting 
in an increase in sales of Crystalyx
®
. 
The acquisition of Western Feed Supplements, 
based in Silver Springs, Nevada, USA by our 
subsidiary Animal Feed Supplements Inc 
(“AFS”) in June 2013 will be expanded by 
an investment of $3.4 million to build a new 
manufacturing system. This efficient plant, 
similar to our existing production facilities,  
will enable the production of our branded 
Smartlic
®
 product by the summer of 2015  
with the associated growth in sales and margin 
expected in year ending 2016. In July 2014,  
our joint venture company, ACC Feed 
Supplement LLC, successfully commissioned 
the new low moisture feed block plant at Sioux 
City, Iowa, USA. The total investment in this 
plant of $4.1 million will facilitate the increase 
in production and sales anticipated in the next 
financial year. This is in line with our strategy to 
distribute our low moisture feed blocks across 
the USA. 
AmiNOmAx
®
AminoMax
®
, our patented animal bypass 
protein product for dairy cows, manufactured 
at Watertown, New Y ork State, USA and at 
Lancaster, UK, delivered significant sales 
growth in the year of 31.5%. The increase 
in sales was driven by leading dairy farmers 
recognising the performance benefits of 
AminoMax
®
. In order to support further 
growth and deliver greater levels of production 
efficiently a further $1.9 million will be invested 
in the Watertown plant during the second half 
of 2015.
REt AiL SALES
In the UK we have developed a clear strategy 
for the growth of our business. We will 
strengthen our current position by improving 
our retail offer, leading in dairy nutrition, 
The geographic spread and operational 
diversity of our Agriculture businesses led  
to another successful year for our Agriculture 
Division.  
In the UK the winter weather was mild and 
wet, compared to the extremely cold and long 
winter of 2012/2013. While this was a relief 
for our farming customers, who were able to 
feed good quality home grown forage and 
reduce costs of production, it had an adverse 
impact on sales of compound/blended feed, 
feed blocks and fuel. However, one of our 
key strengths is our geographic diversity, and 
sales of feed blocks in the USA increased as a 
result of one of the coldest winters on record. 
In addition, livestock farmers were in a position 
where bought in feed and supplementary 
feeding regimes were vital to maintain livestock 
performance. The higher rainfall levels in the 
South East, Mid-West and North West of the 
USA ended the drought for the first time in 
several years, however, California and parts of 
Nevada remain in severe drought. The slow, 
but important process of rebuilding livestock 
numbers in these areas has started and will 
benefit our USA block business in future years. 
FEED BLOCKS
Our ongoing and long term commitment to 
research and development has been key 
to delivering sustainable growth. Research 
Profit before tax for the period increased by 9.5% to £9.6 million (2013: £8.8 million)  
on revenue down by 7.5% to £314.9 million (2013: £340.4 million). Profit before tax  
for the period, including contributions from associate and joint ventures, increased by  
4.3% to £12.1 million (2013: £11.6 million). 
geographic expansion and developing new 
products and providing new services which 
will improve our customers’ profitability.
Retail sales increased 0.5% over the previous 
record year; this growth was a direct result 
of investment in our Country Stores and our 
ability to source and supply products which 
provide outstanding value for our customers. 
T otal sales of feed fell 10.5%, predominantly 
to the beef and sheep farmers, following 
the mild winter conditions and the improved 
quality of home grown forage. 
We are cognisant of the volatile weather 
and pricing dynamics which agriculture is 
exposed to, but our broad based, strong 
and diverse division provides us with the 
opportunity to navigate a successful path 
through those uncertainties. We will continue 
to invest in research and development to 
bring new products, systems and techniques 
to market which will improve the profitability 
of our farming customers. 
Agriculture
PROFIT  
£9.6m
9.5% UP from 2013  
 £9.6m
 £8.8m
 £8.1m
2014 2013 2012 12
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
increased financial benefits from the new  
mill during the next financial year.
Combined sales volumes of our other mills 
(Silloth in Cumbria and Maldon in Essex) were 
positive. Both mills increased sales to bakers 
supplying the expanding bake-off category. 
The Maldon mill continued to increase its 
presence in the markets for ethnic flour.  
We re-launched our branded retail flour 
products during the year and the new 
packaging won first prize at the Marketing 
Design Awards 2014. 
The harvest of 2013 in the UK was of much 
higher quality than the extremely poor harvest 
of 2012. Although the quality of the crop was 
much improved the size of the harvest was 
small, estimated at 12 million tonnes, circa 
2 million tonnes below normal levels. The 
portside location of our two northern mills at 
Kirkcaldy in Scotland and Silloth in Cumbria 
provide us with the flexibility to source wheat 
The first wheat was milled at our new mill 
in Kirkcaldy in the summer of 2013. The 
commissioning process went well and the mill 
is now meeting all expectations with regard to 
performance and reliability. The benefits of the 
new mill have been delivered from improved 
operational efficiency, and the commercial 
benefits derived from increased customer 
confidence in our ability to produce high 
quality flour, milled to the highest standards of 
product integrity. We expect to deliver further 
Profit before tax for the period increased 309.7% from £0.6 million to £2.3 million in this 
financial year on revenue down by 7.5% to £87.1 million (2013: £94.2 million), reflecting 
lower wheat prices.
from the overseas and UK markets 
providing both quality and value. This year 
there has been a switch from sourcing 
wheat from mainland Europe to a greater 
proportion sourced and shipped from 
the South of England. In a market where 
logistics will always be important, this 
flexibility is essential. 
Food
PROFIT  
£2.3m
309.7% UP from 2013  
£2.3m
£0.4m
£0.6m
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chief Executive’s Review continued
2014 2013 2012 13
CARR’S MILLING INDUSTRIES PLC
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Profit before tax for the period fell by 11.7% to £3.7 million (2013: £4.2 million) on revenue 
down by 19.6% to £26.9 million (2013: £33.4 million). 
Engineering
Markdorf, Germany, relocated to a new 
factory and office facility. This £4.5 million 
investment will provide an improved production 
environment, and a training and showroom 
facility. The USA is a key potential market 
for Wälischmiller and during the year we 
secured and supplied our first order to the 
USA. Following the successful testing of our 
prototype for the Demo 2000 project with 
Shell and Statoil, we are working with our 
consortium partners on the development of  
our T elbot
®
 for the remote inspection of oil 
and gas tanks. This complex project will 
conclude next year on schedule, and a video 
of its progress can be found on our website 
www.carrs-milling.com. We are committed 
to research, design and development of the 
next generation of robots able to operate in 
hazardous environments. 
Due to macro-economic pressures, sales into 
Japan have declined and it is anticipated that 
this will continue for at least the next financial 
year. Further, as a result of the on-going 
political sanctions with Russia, future contracts 
with businesses based in Russia are likely to 
be restricted. 
Carrs MSM (“MSM”), based in Swindon, builds 
and services master slave manipulators for the 
nuclear industry. This was another successful 
year for MSM, recording record sales up 5.1% 
We continue to expand and develop our 
Engineering division in size, geography and in 
niche products, while maintaining our focus on 
the markets which we have supplied for many 
years: nuclear, petrochemical, oil and gas. 
In April 2014 we acquired Chirton Engineering 
Limited, a precision machining business 
based in North T yneside, which recorded 
sales of £5.0 million in its full financial year 
ended 30 August 2014. Chirton provides 
value-added manufacturing and services to 
businesses operating in offshore oil and gas 
manufacturing. It services an established 
global customer base, including IHC Merwede, 
Oceaneering, and Proserv Offshore. Revenue 
synergies with Bendalls, our specialist 
fabrication business based in Carlisle, are 
anticipated, enabling us to provide a full service 
offering to our customers from design and 
precision machining, through to fabrication.
Bendalls has commenced production of  
33 pressure vessels for the BP Shah Deniz gas 
pipeline in Azerbaijan; this is an increase from 
the 27 pressure vessels previously reported. 
The value of the contract is now in excess of 
£8 million and is scheduled to complete in 
July 2015. The start date for the manufacture 
of these pressure vessels was delayed due 
to design and specification changes and 
this adversely impacted the performance 
of Bendalls in the year. It is expected that 
significant orders for the decommissioning 
of certain nuclear plants in Sellafield will 
be awarded in 2015, with manufacture 
commencing towards the end of 2015.
During the year Wälischmiller, the remote 
handling and robotics business based in 
on last year, primarily due to the ‘life of plant’ 
contract with Sellafield signed in 2012. Under 
this contract MSM supplies manipulators, 
parts, and repairs and services existing 
equipment to the many plants in the Sellafield 
complex. MSM also won contracts to supply 
equipment to other UK nuclear plants 
including Hinkley Point and Hartlepool.
TIM DAVIES
Chief Executive Officer
12 November 2014
PROFIT  
£3.7m
11.7% DOWN from 2013  
 £3.7m
 £4.2m
 £4.7m
2014 2013 2012
