 Strategically   pOSiti Oned Carter & Carter g roup pl C  a nnual r eport 2005
Chief Executive’ s Review
06    Ch ieF eXeCutive ’s rev iew
The Group has performed well in the last 12 months 
and has established a platform for achieving exciting 
growth in the coming years. The acquisition of ASSA  
is a clear sign of our intention to increase our presence 
in the Government-funded learning market.
strategically positioned highlights  of  the  year
I am delighted to report that the Group has 
delivered substantial growth in operating profit 
before goodwill amortisation and exceptional 
costs of 47% and turnover growth of 33%. In 
addition, we have firmly established a platform 
for further growth in the Government funded 
Vocational Learning market with the post year 
end completion of the ASSA acquisition.
Both the divisions, Vocational Learning and 
Outsource Services enjoyed strong growth in 
underlying operating profit before exceptional 
costs of 43% and 56% respectively, and have 
a core base of 4,495 students and 438 fee 
earners going into the new financial year.
During 2005 the Group acquired and 
successfully integrated the AA technical training 
services business, which has performed 
beyond expectations in the five months under 
Carter & Carter ownership.
The Group also listed on the London Stock 
Exchange in February 2005 at an initial offer 
price of £2.35 and, shortly after the year end, 
raised £8.5m via a placing at £3.55 per share 
to part fund the acquisition of ASSA.
The ASSA acquisition broadens the depth of the 
Government funding available to major clients and 
provides access to markets outside automotive 
such as food manufacturing and engineering. 
The Vocation Learning division now has a 
leading position in the sector.
t he  vocational  learning  market
The Group has a target of being number 
one in the Vocational Learning market with 
20% market share in the medium term. 
Carter & Carter will use this position to 
help its customers deliver performance 
improvements with optimal Government 
funding and will enhance the partnership 
between the employer and Government in 
skills development.
The Government led trend to increase 
vocational learning and apprenticeships 
provides excellent market conditions in which 
Carter & Carter can operate. In apprenticeship 
learning the Government has announced its 
aspiration to substantially grow the intake each 
year. It has achieved a new intake of 175,000 
this year and while this is a very sizable growth 
over previous years, it still only represents 28% 
of young people versus a target of 35% over 
the coming five years. 
 Phillip J Carter
	 Group	 Chief	 Executive
£
7.3
m
Operating profit (2004: £5.1m) 
+
319
%
Earning per share growth
£
10.3
m
*
Underlying operating profit
(2004: £7.0m)
* Excluding goodwill and exceptional items 02     03     04
0 2000000 4000000 6000000 8000000 10000000
15
8.6
7.4
5.1
02     03     04
0 200000 400000 600000 80000010000001200000
3
1.1
1.0
0.8
Strategically   pOSiti Oned Carter & Carter g roup pl C  a nnual r eport 2005
T otal LSC funding £bn
07    Ch ieF eXeCutive ’s rev iew
In the adult sector, learndirect continues to be 
a core element of the skills strategy and has 
benefited from steady growth in public funding. 
The Government National Employer Training 
Programme is forecast to grow by around 65% 
to over £120m in the coming three years. This 
sector can now be actively pursued following 
the acquisition of ASSA. 
There is considerable evidence of a drive  
by the Government towards having fewer, 
higher quality learning providers. The 
importance of achieving good results in Adult 
Learning Inspectorate (ALI) inspections and 
delivering high achievement rates is growing. 
The Government White Paper in 2005 also 
mentions the Government’ s desire for increased 
contestability for current further education 
contracts where delivery is poor. The ASSA 
business has already achieved excellent ALI 
results and considerable resource is being 
allocated within the Group to progress the 
current rating to the same level as ASSA. This 
drive to even better quality delivery will be a 
strong foundation for further growth in our 
Government relationship. 
t he  automotive  outsourcing  market
The automotive sector continues to experience 
challenging market conditions with vehicle 
manufacturers looking to find new ways to 
differentiate their offerings and secure existing 
and new customers. We continue to see 
contract opportunities for the division and as 
the Groups’ scale has grown, we have begun 
to see evidence of being invited to even larger 
tenders. Clearly our growth in Government 
funding expertise will also enhance our product 
proposition in the sector and provide new 
solutions for our vehicle manufacturer clients. 
Our  strategy  for  growth
We plan to focus on building the Vocational 
Learning business through a combination 
of organic growth and acquisitions. 
The organic growth will continue to focus on 
areas of expertise and knowledge and will grow 
carefully through customer acquisition and 
growth in Government contract value. This in 
turn will be achieved by delivering excellence 
in quality in ALI inspections and administration 
of the contracts. Acquisitions will be targeted 
at quality providers where substantial sector 
expertise is added to the organisation.
We will continue to grow the Outsource 
Services division through cross-selling our 
increasing range of products and solutions 
into our broad automotive client base.
We will ensure quality-of-service provision 
by continued attention to our core strategic 
building blocks of knowledge, Measurable 
Business Improvement (MBI) and people. 
Expert knowledge remains fundamental to 
the delivery of value to our clients and hence 
our growth. The importance of knowledge 
is reinforced in our acquisition strategy by 
focusing on the best providers in each industry 
or sector. Our knowledge management strategy 
is established and we will continue to increase 
our focus and activity in this area.
MBI is at the very core of our business 
philosophy, it pervades each contract and every 
team member. The delivery of MBI supports our 
competitive positioning and is driven through in 
our existing areas of operation, and also each 
acquisition we make. MBI is now in place in 
the recently acquired AA business and will be 
integrated into ASSA by January 2006.
As a people business we recognise that the 
expertise, commitment and motivation of our 
team members is a core driver of our growth. 
We have invested in our people in recent years, 
and the continued improvement in employee 
satisfaction illustrates the benefits of this activity. 
Implementing the people strategy and delivering 
on our commitments for our staff will continue 
to be non-negotiable in our current and 
acquired businesses.
We continue to strive to provide equal 
opportunities for all and ensure that our 
recruitment, development and support avoid 
discrimination on the grounds of gender, sexual 
orientation, race, religion, age or disability.
The last 12 months have been the most 
exciting and challenging of my career with 
outstanding growth and achievements. I am 
looking forward to the coming year with great 
optimism. We are well positioned to grow the 
Group and I am particularly excited about the 
opportunity that exists to take a leading position 
in the Government funded learning market.
Phillip J Carter
Group	 Chief	 Executive	 	 12	 October	 2005
 Phillip J Carter
	 Group	 Chief	 Executive
“ Carter & Carter has a target of being 
number one in the Vocational Learning 
market with 20% market share in the 
medium term.”
Vocational learning funding £bn
