 Chairman’ s Statement
04    Chair Man’s state Ment
a   year  O f   gr Owth Carter & Carter g roup pl C  a nnual r eport 2005
a year of growth The past 12 months have been another 
exciting year of growth and change in the 
Carter & Carter Group. The listing of the 
Group on the London Stock Exchange, 
the acquisition of the AA technical training 
services business and, post our year 
end, the acquisition of ASSA have made 
this perhaps the most significant year  
in our history.
 Rodney Westhead
	 Chairman
leadership of the board through a period of 
high growth, our entry into the Apprenticeship 
Learning market, and a successful flotation 
process. We look forward to his continued 
contribution on the board and its committees. 
We have also appointed John Green as Group 
Finance Director and would like to thank Julie 
Pomeroy for her contribution over the last two 
years. Nigel Blythe Tinker has been appointed 
as Group Company Secretary and Head of 
Legal to support and advise the Board and 
finally Peter Marples has been appointed as 
Group Business Development Director having 
previously led the ASSA business. 
The Carter & Carter Group plc business is 
built on a strong foundation and an absolute 
focus on delivering measurable value for 
clients by providing motivated, talented and 
knowledgeable people. These building blocks 
are at the very core of the way the business 
operates, and it is as a direct result of the 
activity of our team members that we continue 
to grow. I would like to thank all of them for 
their hard work and great results, not just this 
year, but during the last 13 years since the 
business was established.
We believe that the prospects for growth 
and success remain strong. We have a clear 
strategy that will focus on providing more 
solutions to our existing client base alongside 
the development of new services and markets 
that arose from our acquisition of ASSA. Our 
business model seeks to deliver high quality, 
value based solutions that drive our clients’ 
businesses forward, and this approach will 
remain at the heart of how the Group operates. 
We see great potential for making selective 
acquisitions, particularly in the fragmented 
learning market. There will be competitive and 
market challenges along the way, but I am 
confident that the business will continue to 
make substantial progress in the coming year.
Rodney Westhead
Chairman	 12	 October	 2005
Welcome to our first annual report as a  
listed company.
The response we received from institutional 
investors at flotation was, we believe, a 
measure of the strength of our strategy, 
business model and market position. We will 
continue to work to deliver strong growth and 
returns for our shareholders. The Initial Public 
Offering (IPO) success was also a reflection of 
the outstanding work carried out by Phil Carter 
and his team, and I would like to take this 
opportunity to thank everyone involved for their 
enthusiasm, professionalism and contributions. 
I am pleased to report that the Group has 
continued to deliver strong growth. Turnover 
grew by 33% to £51.0m and operating profit by 
44% to £7.3m. Operating profit before goodwill 
amortisation and exceptional items grew by 
47% to £10.3m. Both the Outsource Services 
and Vocational Learning divisions achieved  
profit growth. The business continues to 
generate cash. Cashflow from operations was 
£7.9m and, excluding exceptional IPO costs, 
cashflow was £8.8m. Net debt at 31 July 
2005 was £29.1m (2004: £31.5m). A detailed 
review of trading and results is provided in the 
operating reviews for each division. 
Basic earnings per share increased by 319% 
to 8.8p (2004: 2.1p). Excluding goodwill 
amortisation and IPO related exceptional costs, 
earnings per share increased by 72% to 17.4p 
(2004: 10.1p). The Board is recommending a 
final dividend of 3.2p per share. The Group will 
adopt a progressive dividend policy, reflecting the 
cash generative nature of the Group’ s operating 
businesses, the long-term earnings potential 
of the Group and the Group’ s opportunities 
to invest for growth organically and through 
selective acquisitions.
As outlined in the flotation communications, 
the Group added two new non-executive 
directors to the board. David Galloway and 
I joined Adrian Smith and we will all use our 
experience and knowledge to support the 
business and its executive management going 
forward. After three years as non-executive 
chairman, Adrian recently stepped down from 
that role, and I would like to thank him for his 
+
33
%
Turnover growth
3.2
p
Dividend per share
