 Cashbox PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Chief Executive’s Review
Whilst the last year has clearly been a
challenging one for the business, it has
also clearly proved that Cashbox has
the resilience, capabilities and the
correct strategy to thrive in a highly
competitive marketplace. There has
been considerable change within both
the Executive Management Team and
the Non-executive Board. However,
staff both old and new have remained
fully focussed upon the cornerstones of
our business, namely:
• The continuing acquisition of key
client contracts with high volume
estates
• The rapid conversion and installation
of profitable sites within these
estates
• The provision of outstanding service
and support levels to drive
transaction volumes; and
• The utilisation of a robust and flexible
platform technology and reporting
systems to ensure the maximum level
of uptime for all ATMs.
During the course of 2006/07, Cashbox
was hampered in its ability to execute
against those cornerstones by a lack of
funding. This situation was resolved in
June 2007 by the signing of a deal with
Bank of Scotland. A lack of funding
also causes a business to wholly focus
upon the short term rather than plan
for the long term. Securing a funding
partner has enabled management to
restructure the business with a view to
meeting short term requirements whilst
providing a secure and stable platform
for the consistent and predictable
execution of the growth business plan
over the medium to long term.
These changes are designed to focus the
business, especially sales and support
operations, upon meeting the needs of
our customers. An Account
Management team has been created to
develop a partnership approach with
our key clients. This single point of
contact provides regular site
penetration and transaction reports,
and works with our clients to target
new sites and create marketing
materials to drive additional estate
penetration as well as transaction
volumes within existing sites.
Closer links to our clients and the
resulting increased understanding of
their business priorities also allows for
the efforts of the Field Sales team to
be co-ordinated with our clients’
internal marketing efforts. This has
resulted in over 30% growth of site
conversions H2 v H1 in 2006/07. 
This performance is expected to be
maintained, if not accelerated further,
in 2007/08; especially with the recent
addition of a Telephone Sales team to
drive estate penetration. Recently
acquired clients such as Total Fitness
and Marstons Pub Company are
experiencing a rapid fulfilment of their
estate’s potential thus reducing the
time to generate substantial revenues.
The provision of outstanding support
services are increasingly the key
business differentiator between Cashbox
and all other players in the market. By
retaining all these functions in-house,
Cashbox can ensure the quality and
timeliness of all installation, upgrade
and repair services. The Help Desk and
Sales Support teams were also recently
merged to provide available scale for
any particular priority task, such as
large scale customer roll out, software
upgrades and loading graphic images.
However, the real benefit has been the
sharing of information about client
needs, issues and requests across the
organisation, reducing response times
and increasing our ability to pro-
actively manage anticipated issues. 
As a result, despite growth in the
installed base of nearly 50% over the
past year, we have been able to
maintain our benchmark of resolving
85% of all ATM performance issues
immediately by phone, the remainder
being handled in person by trained
engineers within twenty-four hours of
the fault being logged. This dedicated
approach to service ensures we
experience ATM uptime in excess of
98% as an average across the entire
estate. In this way, our clients are
continually driving increased footfall to
their locations, and increased spending
at these locations from customers who
always enjoy access to cash.
Moving into 2007/08, it is the Cashbox
experience – the actual verbal and
physical interaction with Cashbox staff
that will differentiate us from our
competition. After discussing the
business goals of any potential client,
our in-house survey team assesses
whether an ATM can deliver those
goals wholly, or in part. This then
drives the discussions between Sales
Management and the on-site Merchant
to agree mutually beneficial contract
terms, prior to any installation. This
integrated and professional approach
to meeting our clients’ business needs
together with our company wide
commitment to service excellence will
ensure that Cashbox customers are
fully informed as to what the ATM can
achieve for their business, and that
both parties have a realistic
expectation of transaction
performance. A true partnership that
we expect to build upon and renew
during the lifetime of the contract.
As the Bank of Scotland funding allows
for the regular purchase and roll-out of
ATMs to drive revenues, similarly the
Executive Management are seeking
ways to optimise operational
efficiencies, whilst driving towards
The provision of outstanding support services are increasingly the key
business differentiator between Cashbox and all other players in the
market. By retaining all these functions in-house, Cashbox can ensure
the quality and timeliness of all installation, upgrade and repair services.
8 85%
of all ATM performance issues
are resolved over the phone
98%
of Cashbox ATMs 
available for use
The provision of outstanding
support services are increasingly
the key business differentiator
between Cashbox and all other
players in the market.
Gross transaction
revenues
up 40% on last year to
£4.0m as the installed base of
machines increases.
sustainable profitable growth. All major
supplier contracts have been re-
negotiated resulting in increased funds
to invest in sales and support areas.
Additional sales headcount and capital
expenditure on Customer Relationship
Management software has partly been
funded out of operational efficiencies.
The placement strategy continues to drive
our growth, but we have taken steps to
ensure that the rapid deployment of ATMs
does not affect future profitability. A new
approach in customer contracts, which
grow merchant commissions in line with
transaction volume, ensures that even low
transacting ATMs generate significant
profits over the contract duration.
Transaction volumes, as expected,
continue to grow, and, more
importantly, average transactions per
ATM have not suffered as a result from
the swing in emphasis from sales and
managed ATMs to placement ATMs.
This has been driven in part by the high
quality machines used. We have recently
upgraded from the Tidel 3400 to the
3600, which we believe to be “best in
class”. With enlarged screen and
enhanced colour graphics, keypad and
security features, the 3600 provides
tangible reassurance to merchant and
user alike.
In conclusion, a difficult year of
trading, where a lack of funding and
personal governance created an
environment where execution was
severely hampered. However, the staff
and the new management are energised
about the future. The restructuring has
created purpose and enabled focus upon
those key elements of our business that
create the foundation of our long-term,
profitable future. Exit run rates from
2006/2007 are very encouraging and
are built upon in H1 2007/08.
As I look to 2007/08, I am fully
resolved that the defining element
of this new Cashbox will be the
delivery of consistent and
predictable performance. We
will achieve this by developing
meaningful partnerships that
deliver true mutual value with
all of our clients, and by
demanding more of ourselves
and our performance.
Ciaran Morton
Chief Executive
Moving into 2007/08, it is the Cashbox
experience – the actual verbal and
physical interaction with Cashbox staff
that will differentiate us from our
competition. 
2006 £2.84m
£4.0m 2007
