 6
Cashbox PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2007
Chairman’s Statement
My statement as Chairman of Cashbox
comes following a difficult period for the
Company. The dismissal of the founder
and former CEO, Carl Thomas, has
meant that the Company has had to
meet an unanticipated challenge.
Further, it was necessary to change
funding providers, resulting in delays in
the installation of ATMs across our
estate. This has meant that the Company
has gone through a challenging year to
say the least. Each of these factors
would have been impossible to envisage
at the start of the year.
We now have a new Chief Executive
Officer in Ciaran Morton and a new
Chief Financial Officer in David Auger.
Together with Matt Thomas and Andy
Wilmott, they form a first class senior
executive team, which gives us
confidence for the future. They have
already negotiated new funding
arrangements with the Bank of
Scotland, which provide greater access
to capital and the flexibility needed to
roll out our ATMs more aggressively. 
Despite these difficulties, we have
continued to benefit from one of the
UK’s fastest organically grown estates 
of ATMs. We have negotiated new
agreements, which complement our
already impressive client list. These new
contracts will open up opportunities for
further growth in the Group’s estate. 
At the beginning of the year (July 2006)
the business had 1,058 installed ATMs.
This rose to 1,442 installed ATMs by
June 2007 and was over 1,750 by the
middle of December 2007.
2007 results
Sales for the year to 30 June 2007 
were £4,380,000 (2006: £3,159,000)
resulting in an operating loss of
£5,932,000 (2006: £3,396,000) 
and a loss before tax of £6,741,000 
(2006: £3,637,000). These results are
very disappointing but there were
exceptional items of £2,000,000
litigation settlement costs and an
exceptional finance charge of £685,000
to resolve the Group’s lease finance
arrangements as well as the large
professional fees in connection with the
Hanco lawsuit and other legal and
financial expenses.
Consistently, through the year, Cashbox
has continued to secure contracts to
roll out ATMs into both independent
and managed sites. There continues to
be a large number of contract
opportunities ahead for the Company
which we will continue to pursue.
We have maintained our focus on the
Merchant Fill model which has seen the
estate grow by 36.2% in the last year.
This model continues to present the best
option for many of our customers who,
in turn, are able to offer an added value
service to their customers. The business
model has further been developed to
ensure that the commissions paid out 
to the merchant relate directly to the
transaction levels in that particular site.
Resource
With the challenges highlighted 
above, the Company’s resilience and
determination to succeed have been
evident in the past year. I believe
that we have a Company which is
professional and resolute in its
partnership with its customers, and 
one that continues to ensure that the
customer experience with Cashbox is
productive. I believe our shareholders
can have confidence that we have built 
a professional team that will create both
significant value for investors and an
effective service for our customers.
Hanco Litigation 
In October 2007, we were able to agree
a full and final settlement with Hanco in
respect of the long standing litigation
between the two companies. In the
settlement, Cashbox ATM Systems
Limited will pay an additional £1.8m, 
on top of the £200,000 already paid. 
As previously announced to the market
and shareholders, Cashbox ATM Systems
Limited has the benefit of a joint and
several indemnity from Carl Thomas
and Anthony Sharp in connection with
this litigation, which Directors intend to
enforce to recover the £2m. This brings
to an end the litigation which has been a
drain on management time, and was
continuing to incur substantial legal bills.
The Board did not believe that continuing
the litigation was in the best interests of
shareholders.
The Board was surprised and
disappointed to receive a letter from
Anthony Sharp disputing the validity of
his indemnity to Cashbox ATM Systems
Limited. The Board has subsequently
received legal advice supporting that the
indemnity is valid and enforceable. As
the indemnity is a reimbursement and
receipt is not virtually certain, the
amount recoverable will not be recorded
as a receivable until receipt is virtually
certain in accordance with UK GAAP .
Hence, the value of the indemnity does
not appear on the Balance Sheet.
However, shareholders can rest assured
that the Board intends to vigorously
pursue the indemnity.
Post Balance Sheet Events
The rollout of ATMs has been slower
than expected for several reasons, not
least being changes to the production
procedure of our ATM supplier. This,
coupled with a maturing market, has led
to slower installation rates than
originally planned. Break-even, which
was expected towards the end of 2007, is
now forecast for summer 2008. As a
result we have had to raise new operating
capital, as well as re-structure our
existing arrangements with Bank of
Scotland. I am happy to report that we
have achieved this.
We have maintained our focus on the placement of the Merchant
Filled model. This model continues to present the best option for
our customers who, in turn, are able to offer an added value service
to their customers. I believe that we have a Company which is
professional and resolute in its partnership
with its customers, and one that continues
to ensure that the customer experience 
with Cashbox makes us the ATM partner 
of choice in the UK.
Bank of Scotland have agreed to
lengthen our drawdown period from
March 2008 to December 2008, with a
corresponding reduction in the required
facility from £8m to £6m, reflecting
current trading conditions. This was
agreed on the basis that we raised £1m
of funding for operating capital, which
we have done in the form of one
convertible loan and one non-convertible
loan. The convertible loan of £583,000
has already been loaned to the Company
and the non-convertible loan of
£417,000 is available from 31 March
2008. The Board are proposing a fund
raising in 2008 about which shareholders
will be notified in due course.
The Board recognises that there are now
two main goals for the business:
• To continue to exploit the opportunity
in the market to grow the core
business organically. With that in
mind, Matthew Thomas (Chief
Technology Officer), and Andrew
Wilmott (Technical Director) will
focus upon driving the execution of
this growth taking major roles within
the Executive Board of the operating
company, Cashbox ATM Systems
Limited. They will relinquish their plc
roles in order to achieve this goal.
• To develop a more external focus, with
a view to deriving value from
transactions in what we believe to be a
market ready for consolidation. This
requires the Board leadership to
leverage a different skill-set from that 
of running and growing an existing
business operation. Cashbox is fortunate
to have that talent already in place. It is
my intention to step down at the AGM
and allow Non-executive Director,
Robin Saunders, with her considerable
financial market experience, to replace
me as Chair, to take forward this next
phase of Cashbox’s evolution. Non-
executive Director, Stephen L Brown,
will also stand down at the next AGM,
to enable a balanced Board of two
Executives, Ciaran Morton and David
Auger, and two Non-executives, Robin
Saunders and William Hughes to
leverage transactional value in a
changing market.
2007/08
The current year will be one of high
expectations, challenges and hard work
for Cashbox, with demanding yet
achievable goals. The rollout of ATMs
will continue and we intend to reach
monthly break-even during 2008. 
I send my fellow Directors and all 
the  staff at Cashbox my best wishes 
for their future success.
John Maples
Chairman
