 6
Cashbox PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chairman’s Statement
It is pleasing to report that your
company has made significant
progress in the period under
review.
Improved operational performance has
been key in achieving the reported
results. However the development of a
coherent strategy is vital to ensure full
realisation of shareholder value.
Y our Board, in its last report, conveyed
its intention to pursue opportunities to
grow the business by acquisition. To this
end the Board has devoted time and
effort to achieve a position of leadership
in the consolidation that the industry is
experiencing. Current market conditions
have made the furthering of this
objective even more appropriate.
The identification of possible
acquisitions, which occurred in the
second half of the year have resulted in
positive outcomes since the year end.
The significant increase in ATM numbers
achieved both by organic growth and
acquisition have increased the estate size
to 2,045 at 30 June 2008, with over
2,500 active sites at 30 November 2008.
Y our Board believes that the estate size
is such that profitability will now be
achieved within an acceptable time scale.
2008 results
Sales for the year ended 30 June 2008
were £4,675,000 (2007: £4,380,000)
resulting in an operating loss of
£2,484,000 (2007: £5,932,000) and a
loss before tax of £3,003,000 (2007:
£6,741,000).
During the year, the business has
continued to roll out ATMs into both
independent and managed sites. 
The Cashbox team has also focused on
streamlining the operational aspects of
the business by putting in place the
necessary systems to run and maintain a
fast growing estate. A new distributor
agreement was signed in February 2008
with Triton, one of the market leaders in
off-site ATM provision. The agreement is
in addition to the existing distribution
agreements with NCR Easypoint
(formerly Tidel).
The placement merchant (self-filled)
model continues to be the prime focus
for Cashbox and has seen the total estate
grow by 42%, and now accounts for
more than half the ATMs deployed. 
The business has also begun identifying
and rolling out a fully managed service
to selected high transacting sites where
it is financially viable to offer this
service. This is an area that is likely to
expand with increase in demand, and our
ability to provide this service will put the
business in a position to offer an
enviable ‘one-stop’ ATM solution for a
variety of merchant requirements. 
We are also now trialling free to use
ATMs in a number of locations.
Funding
In December 2007 Cashbox secured 
£1 million in funding from MBC
Investments Ltd. to be provided in two
tranches. The first tranche was a
convertible unsecured loan, for the sum
of £583,788. The second was a non-
convertible unsecured loan of £416,212
which was made available for draw
down from 31 March 2008. Both
tranches of the loan were due to mature
on 31 March 2009. On 14 March 2008,
the Company received notice from MBC
Investments that the holder’s intention
was to convert the convertible loan note
issued into shares under the terms of the
loan at the first available occasion being
31 March 2008.
The new loans were arranged in
conjunction with a rescheduling of the
Company’s Bank of Scotland facility,
whereby the initial £8m facility was
reduced to £6m and the drawdown
period extended from March 2008 to
December 2008. The debt repayment
originally agreed to start March 2008
was rescheduled to commence December
2009.
Hanco litigation 
In October 2007 we were able to agree
a full and final settlement with Hanco 
in respect of the long standing litigation
between the two companies. In the
settlement it was agreed Cashbox ATM
Systems Limited would pay an
additional £1.8m, on top of the
£200,000 already paid in July 2007. 
As previously announced to the market
and shareholders, Cashbox ATM
Systems Limited has the benefit of a
joint and several indemnity from 
Carl Thomas and Anthony Sharp in
The placement merchant (self-filled) model continues to
be the prime focus for Cashbox and has seen the total
estate grow by 42%, and now accounts for more than
half the ATMs deployed.  During the year, the business has continued to roll out
ATMs into both independent and managed sites. 
The Cashbox team has also focused on streamlining
the operational aspects of the business by putting in
place the necessary systems to run and maintain a fast
growing estate.
connection with this litigation, which the
Directors intend to enforce to recover
the £2m. However both Mr Thomas and
Mr Sharp have refused to contribute
and Mr Sharp declared himself
bankrupt on 14 May 2008.
This brought to an end the litigation
which has been a drain on management
time and was continuing to incur
substantial legal bills. The Board did 
not believe that continuing the litigation
was in the best interests of shareholders.
Post balance sheet events
During the period from the 7th July
2008 to 8th October 2008, the company
was able to complete four transactions,
effectively acquiring all of the sites and
ATMs of MyATM, a non-Link member
IAD, and Cash4All a Link member IAD.
This added another 892 sites to the
Cashbox estate. Although predominantly
independent contracts, the acquisitions
also included 144 sites within Mitchells
& Butlers, one of the UK’s largest
managed pub estates.
The company has successfully raised
monies in this difficult market to provide
further working capital, as well as funds
for acquisition and integration costs. 
I was unable to participate in these
placings, the company being in a closed
period. However, I have been able to
express my support for the business by
funding a £100K loan to the business,
which, subject to Board approval, I am
willing to convert when legally allowed
to do so.
2008/2009
It is my clear intention to ensure that
your Board’s priority is the creation of
value for shareholders. The foundation
for the achievement of this has now been
laid. The optimisation of the benefits of
the enlarged estate will be
management’s priority and I am
confident of their ability to deliver this.
With positive cash flow and profitability
now realisable I believe that the
disappointments of the past are now
behind us.
I wish to express my appreciation to all
staff who have contributed during this
period of change.
Robin Saunders
Chairman
7
