 Cashbox PLC  Annual Report & Accounts 2008
Chief Executive’s Review
In my last report, I commented
upon the need to remain focused
upon the cornerstones of our
business, namely:
• The continuing acquisition of key
client contracts with high volume
estates
• The rapid conversion and installation
of profitable sites within these estates
• The provision of outstanding service
and support levels to drive transaction
volumes; and
• The utilisation of a robust and flexible
platform technology and reporting
system to ensure the maximum level
of uptime for all ATMs.
I am pleased to say that we have made
considerable progress, with measurable
successes, in every area of
implementation. From 1st July 2007 to
30th June 2008, we successfully
negotiated and signed up 871 sites
which were suitable for installation.
Two approaches were adopted to fulfil
this opportunity, namely the purchase of
new ATMs utilising the Bank of
Scotland drawdown and the
redeployment of existing ATMs from
low transacting locations. The former
increased our overall estate size from
1,442 to 2,045 in the period, whilst the
second increased our return on ATM
investment.
This has involved entering new markets
such as transportation hubs and
cinemas, as well as greater penetration
in the leisure and convenience store
sectors.
Our relationships with communication
partners, has culminated in a new direct
agreement with BT, signed in April
2008. This enables us to reduce waiting
times for telephone line installation
which, coupled with improved ATM
stock management and ordering, has
enabled us to reduce average installation
times [period from approved deal to
installed ATM] from 51 days in Q1 to
just 28 days in Q4. Although the estate
has increased significantly in size,
engineering headcount has remained
constant throughout the period.
We are rightly proud of the service we
provide, planned and co-ordinated by
our Account Management team, and
this dedicated and professional
approach has lead to our corporate
clients collectively increasing their
installed ATM base with Cashbox by
25% over the past twelve months. We
have also experienced increased estates
in 72% of our corporate clients, 6% of
corporate clients declining by only one
site each, and 22% of corporate clients
remaining at a constant size.
Further investment in training was
undertaken, especially for field service
engineers, relating to new ATM types,
software and upgrade parts. This is a
crucial element of our service offering –
the ATM has to be working to meet the
business and operational requirements
of our clients.
Over 90% of the new sites installed in
the period were placement self-fill
machines, where we retain a higher
percentage of the convenience fee. 
This has enabled us to maintain the
higher gross profit margins experienced
last year, without having to resort to
raising the convenience fee, which has
been maintained at £1.75 across the
majority of the estate. 
Transaction volumes continue to grow 
in a difficult economic environment. 
The re-deployment of ATMs from low
transacting sites to new sites supports
average transaction levels which are
depressed by the addition of new sites
throughout any given month. We will
continue to re-deploy at the current
rate, on a monthly basis throughout the
coming year, to ensure that average
transactions are maintained, with
possible future growth. As we increase
our installed base, a greater proportion
of our efforts will shift from the
acquisition and installation of net new
sites to redeployment of existing ATMs
to higher transacting sites.
During the course of the past year, at
the request of clients, we have extended
our offering to include a fully managed
service and free to use ATMs. Both of
these offerings were successfully
launched with a limited rollout, and are
being closely monitored and refined,
before we commit to a larger scale
promotion and rollout. High volume
sites have traditionally required a fully
managed offering and the potential for
this market is well recognised. However,
we believe that the current economic
climate is creating a new sector in the
free to use market, where a free to use
ATM is justified not solely by
transaction volumes and location, but is
greatly influenced by our clients seeking
to support their value offering to their
own customers. Initial reports are
encouraging and we look forward to
increasing our presence in these areas.
Free to use ATMs still generate income
for Cashbox via the interchange fee.
This is where the customer’s bank pays
Cashbox a fee for allowing their
customer to withdraw cash free of
charge from an independently deployed
ATM. Although the interchange fee is
smaller than the convenience fee, the
increased volume of transactions
stimulated by no transaction fees means
that this is still potentially profitable
business for Cashbox.
Halifax Bank of Scotland continues to
be a very supportive financing partner
in the rollout of ATMs. In an
environment where many capital
intensive businesses are feeling the
effects of the high cost of borrowing, 
8 we are fortunate to have a partner who
has not only supported the existing
business model but also supported the
acquisition of small existing estates,
such as the July 2008 purchase of 144
ATMs situated within Mitchells &
Butlers plc, one of the largest managed
pub companies in the UK. The
acquisition of already installed estates 
is intelligent business for Cashbox, 
as transaction volumes are of a known
quantity, the ATMs have already ramped
up performance, and we do not have to
bear the cost of site acquisition, initial
survey and installation. Our Engineers,
Sales Support team and Technology
group provided further proof of our
outstanding levels of service by
decommissioning and re-uploading these
ATMs to the LINK network within the
same month of signing, despite not
being able to work within opening
hours.
The Board believe that there are more
opportunities of this nature, and stand
by their re-structuring of the Board in
January 2008, which was enacted to
increase our ability to react quickly and
creatively to such market opportunities.
The Board and Executive Management
are mindful that the business has not yet
attained profitability and continually
evolve roles, processes and operating
systems, leveraging technology where
possible, to ensure that operating costs
are kept to a minimum. Significant cost
savings have been made in the areas of
administration costs, professional fees
and occupancy costs, whilst being 
aware of our need to invest for growth.
One example of this has been the
increase in our headcount average from
44 in 2006 to 2007 to 50 in 2007 to
2008 at an increase of only 1% to total
employee costs. 
Our goal has always been to create a
stable platform, one which empowers
the business to deliver sustainable,
profitable growth. The changes to the
structure of the organisation in
2006/2007 enabled that platform to be
built in 2007/2008 and we go forward
with a significantly larger estate which
generates larger and growing revenues,
with a stable and robust organisational
structure and workforce, all of which
operates on a substantially reduced 
cost base.
Looking forward to 2008/2009, 
we will continue to allow the
outstanding quality of our
service, the flexibility of our
offerings, and the complete
ownership of all aspects of
our post-sales support to be
the differentiators in
driving our business success.
We will continue to focus upon
delivering organic growth, whilst
remaining responsive to acquisition
opportunities in a market with
considerable consolidation potential.
In conclusion, I am very encouraged by
the mature, resilient and professional
manner in which the Company and its
staff have dealt with considerable 
re-structuring in a changing economic
climate. I look forward to the next
twelve months with confidence and
optimism about returning real value to
our shareholders.
Ciaran Morton
Chief Executive
Looking forward to 2008/2009, we will
continue to allow the outstanding
quality of our service, the flexibility of
our offerings, and the complete
ownership of all aspects of our post-
sales support to be the differentiators in
driving our business success.
9
