 2
Castleton Technology plc 
Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s Statement
“ In a year that has seen 
significant change, the Group 
is now ideally positioned to 
execute its strategy to 
become a leading IT managed 
services business, serving 
the public and not-for-profit 
sectors. The acquisition of 
Montal is the first building 
block and I’m sure we will 
see the transformation 
of the Group with further 
transactions over the 
coming months  
and years.” Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
3
Castleton Technology plc 
Annual Report 2014
Dear Shareholder
I am pleased to report the results 
of the Group for the year ended 
31 March 2014. It has been a year of 
significant change, which has seen the 
Group finish its restructure and embark 
on a new strategy to build a focused 
IT managed services business serving 
the public and not-for-profit sectors. 
The journey started with the demerger 
of the network based managed 
services business to Redcentric plc 
(“the Demerger”) and moved post 
year-end to the acquisition, in June 
2014, of Montal Holdings Limited 
(“Montal”), a well-respected niche IT 
managed services business. This year 
has also seen the Group change its 
name from Redstone plc to Castleton 
T echnology plc. With the acquisition 
of Montal the Group is now on a clear 
path to achieving its goal of becoming 
a successful niche player in the public 
sector and not-for-profit IT managed 
services market place.
The results for the year highlight 
the fact that the Group has had a 
busy year: after the demerger of 
Redcentric, the Group disposed of two 
businesses. The most significant was 
the sale of Comunica Holdings Limited 
(“Comunica”) in November 2013 to 
Coms plc for £9.5 million in cash, 
of which £1.85 million was deferred 
for 12 months, and resulted in the 
Group changing its name to Castleton 
T echnology plc. The year has therefore 
seen significant reorganisation, which 
has involved a huge effort from many 
people: I would like to thank all those 
who have contributed, some of whom 
are no longer with the Group. 
I feel the Group is embarking on an 
exciting path, on which I am sure we 
will see further significant events, as 
we build a public sector focused IT 
managed service Group.
 
Reported Results
The Group income statement 
for the year reports the trading 
contribution from the business units as 
‘discontinued’, having been sold or held 
for sale. The remaining legacy assets 
of the Group have been classified as 
held for sale as the Board has deemed 
them to not be part of the Group’ s 
strategy in the future and consequently 
the Group will seek to dispose of them 
to provide further funding for growth. 
The income statement only reflects the 
costs of running the Group in the year, 
which are not attributed to the trading 
businesses. As a result, the Group loss 
for the year of £1.25 million includes no 
contribution from the trading business 
units, and with ABS, a proprietary ferry 
ticketing, erp and payroll software and 
consultancy business reported as ‘held 
for sale’, the Group’ s income statement 
and balance sheet have the appearance 
of a cash shell.
The Board has closely focused on cost 
control in the period, whilst it has sought 
suitable acquisition targets. During the 
year, and continuing post year-end, 
the cost of the Group overhead 
has been greatly reduced, with the 
Board taking half pay from 1 February 
2014 to 30 June 2014: full pay was 
reinstated with the start of the current 
investment programme. 4
Castleton Technology plc 
Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s Statement continued Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
5
Castleton Technology plc 
Annual Report 2014
The Group’ s cash position at year-end 
of £2.8 million is before cash receivable 
by the Group from previous corporate 
transactions: the Group is owed 
£2.1 million at the year-end arising 
largely from the sale of Comunica, all of 
which is due in the current financial year 
and of which £0.6 million has already 
been received.
Whilst this year’ s results do not contain 
much in the way of guidance to the 
future, I expect with the scale that 
Montal brings to the Group and with 
the possibility of further acquisitions 
complementary to Montal and the 
Group’ s strategy, that the Group will 
look very different when it reports its 
results for the next financial year.
Banking and Financing
During the year, the Group settled all 
bank debt with the proceeds from the 
disposal of Comunica Holdings Limited, 
after which the Group had a net cash 
position of approximately £2.9 million. 
At year-end this stood at £2.8 million. 
Post the year-end, the Group financed 
the cash element of the consideration 
for the acquisition of Montal from 
existing Group cash resources. 
This included the early receipt of 
£0.6 million of deferred consideration 
from the disposal of Comunica. 
The Group has also agreed a new 
short-term bank facility to November 
2014 for £0.5 million, to be used to 
support working capital if required.
Equity
Prior to the demerger the Group placed 
75 million new ordinary shares at 8p 
per share. The £6.0 million raised was 
to provide sufficient working capital 
for each of the demerged businesses 
and to pay the costs associated with 
the demerger. 
Post Balance Sheet Events
The acquisition of Montal for 
£3.83 million was funded via existing 
cash resources of £3.04 million and loan 
notes of £0.79 million. The loan notes 
are repayable in 12 months and carry 
a coupon of 8%. The deal represents 
an enterprise value of approximately 
£3.6 million and, at current run rate 
EBITDA, a value multiple of six. 
Montal brings £6 million in annual 
revenues of which over 50% are 
recurring in nature. The business has 
delivered organic growth over the past 
three years with customer retention in 
excess of 90% and we are confident 
this trend will continue. The business 
offers a full suite of outsourced services 
including support, hosting, business 
solutions and consultancy and expertise 
and competencies across Microsoft, 
Citrix, Cisco, VMWare and CmpTIA. 
The business also has an experienced 
management team, which I have no 
doubt will prove to be a fantastic asset 
for the Group. Montal will be operated 
as a separate division of the Group and 
is self funding. 
I welcome the team at Montal to the 
Castleton Group and look forward to 
working with them. 
The one remaining business unit in 
the Group at the year-end was ABS, 
acquired as part of the Maxima Group 
in 2012; ABS is held for sale as reported 
in these accounts. The Board has 
evaluated the business and has decided 
that it will not be core to the Group’ s 
future strategy. 
On 29 August 2014 the Group disposed 
of the trade and certain assets of ABS 
for a total cash consideration of 
£0.75 million. The consideration will be 
settled £0.30 million at completion with 
a further £0.30 million on 30 September 
2014 and the remaining £0.15 million 
due on 31 March 2015.
The Board
The changes at Board level during the 
year included my appointment as non-
executive Chairman on 8 April 2013 and 
the appointment of Spencer Dredge 
as interim Group Finance Director, with 
Peter Hallett stepping down after his 
resignation in June 2013. I would like 
to thank Peter for his contribution to 
the Group over the past four and a 
half years. Spencer joined the Board in 
February 2014 having previously worked 
with the Group, in a variety of Group 
and divisional finance roles.
Richard Ramsay, our former  
non-executive Chairman, has said 
he would like to step down as a  
non-executive Director and will do so, 
in due course, once we have found a 
suitable replacement.
Opportunity/Outlook
We see an enormous opportunity with 
the fragmented nature of the IT services 
sector. The public and not-for-profit 
sectors offer a very substantial market 
opportunity for IT services. We believe 
that, by consolidating quality IT 
managed service assets, we can build a 
Group of significant scale, with a vertical 
focus, which we can use to leverage 
our market position. Our aspiration is 
to become the leading niche public 
sector IT managed services provider. 
We believe we can achieve this aim and 
the Group has made a positive start with 
the acquisition of Montal. The Board 
is fully focused on its new strategy and 
with the proven track record of our 
CEO, Ian Smith, an M&A specialist in 
this industry, I believe we will see the 
transformation of the Group over the 
coming months and years. MXC Capital 
is a cornerstone investor in the Group 
and has recently executed very similar 
strategies with other listed businesses, 
with great results. I believe we have 
both the foundations in place, with the 
Montal acquisition, and the experience 
of Ian and MXC Capital, to deliver value 
to our shareholders.
David Payne
Non-Executive Chairman
5 September 2014
