 In this, my first Chairman’s review since Celoxica
became a public company, I am pleased to
report that we have made good progress in the
year. There have been a number of highlights:
• October’s AIM flotation, an important
milestone for the Group, raising the Group’s
profile and increasing its financial resources
• Record orders for the year of £5.0m, up
42% on 2004
• Turnover up 24% on 2004, operating
losses reduced by 14%
• Increased momentum in the accelerated
computing market in the Americas
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The financial results for the Group are
encouraging. Turnover increased by 24%, and
our operating loss was reduced. Following the
IPO our cash position is strong. This progress
together with the IPO proceeds will enable the
Group to scale the business and capitalize on
the market opportunity.
STRATEGY
We have made considerable progress towards
our goal of becoming one of the primary
global suppliers of electronic system level
design technology for the embedded systems
and accelerated computing markets. Whilst
these markets are currently relatively small,
both are expected to experience substantial
growth in the coming years. Of particular
note is the progress within the accelerated
computing market where, in the Americas, we
have achieved a number of important design
wins. We are currently generating real
momentum in this exciting market and view
the future with considerable optimism.
IPO
The Group completed its IPO on the
Alternative Investment Market of the London
Stock Exchange on 27 October 2005. The
placing raised gross funds of £6.1m (£5.2m
net). This achievement provides the financial
resources the Group needs to expand its
commercial and development activities.
BOARD CHANGES
Following the Group’s IPO we appointed Ian
Yeoman as a non-executive Director. Ian brings
a wealth of international business, finance and
technology experience in a range of companies
spanning the aerospace, defence, chemicals
and electronics industries. Jesper Nielsen
resigned from the Board on 23 September 2005
and Keith Hopkins resigned from the Board on
25 January 2006. I would like to thank Jesper
and Keith for their contributions to the Group.
SUMMARY
The Group is developing well. I would like to
recognise both our employees who, through
their commitment, focus and ability, have
delivered these results and our professional
advisors for enabling the Group to achieve a
successful flotation. Finally, I would also like
to thank our customers and partners for their
continued support and our shareholders for
their loyalty. Based on our progress to date
and our continued momentum, we are
confident of success in the future.
Jack Fryer Chairman
page 2 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Chairman’s review
good progress in the year
Based on our progress
to date and our
continued momentum,
we are confident of
success in the future.
