 We have made significant
progress, establishing a
solid platform in growing
markets, and building very
strong relationships with
partners, helping us to
continue to remain at the
forefront of new
technological developments.
OVERVIEW
During the year, we have continued to make
significant progress in our strategic growth
segments of embedded systems and accelerated
computing. We have built very strong
relationships with customers and partners and
are expanding our role and importance as a
member of the electronics industry value chain.
We have invested in the continued development
of our product solutions and have targeted a
number of emerging market applications that
demonstrate the value of these new products.
STRATEGY
Celoxica’s goal is to become one of the primary
global suppliers of electronic system level design
technology for the embedded systems and
accelerated computing markets. We continue to
develop our core technology to strengthen our
growth in these markets. We believe that our
customers can significantly improve productivity
in the design of electronics systems and greatly
increase the usability, performance and range of
applications made possible by the deployment
of Celoxica’s technology.
MARKET DEVELOPMENT
The ESL (embedded design) market
We continue to see a spectrum of opportunity
in the ESL market and significant growth is
forecast. Gartner Dataquest forecasts that the
ESL market will grow from approximately
$200m in 2005 to $1.6bn by 2009. This
growth is being driven by the increasing
complexity of semiconductors. This complexity
stimulates demand for high productivity design
solutions such as those offered by Celoxica. Our
solutions can be applied to an extensive range
of applications within the embedded space
and our focus is directed at the high growth
segments of automotive, communications,
consumer, imaging and industrial.
The accelerated computing market
This market offers Celoxica a potential £1.5bn
opportunity, growing at 30% p.a. (according to
IDC). The use of programmable semiconductors
for accelerated computing is growing and our
technology allows developers to explore 
co-processor algorithm acceleration within a
familiar design environment. Our solutions have
already been used in the development of a wide
range of accelerated computing applications such
as virus checking, real-time image processing and
scientific and industrial computing calculations.
The wide array of applications within the
accelerated computing market is expected to
lead to continued rapid growth opportunities.
PARTNERSHIPS
Partnerships provide the Group additional routes
to market for our technology solutions. The focus
of these partnerships includes semiconductors,
software solutions, hardware board suppliers and
research and teaching universities.
During the year, the Group developed and
expanded its relationship with key partners in
the industry. In the semiconductor space we
continue to work closely with Altera and Xilinx
who are the dominant market leaders in FPGA
based programmable semiconductor market. We
have launched new versions of our products that
exploit and utilise the latest FPGA based
products from these two key partners. We have
also created FPGA based development and
acceleration boards that deploy their highest
performance FPGA devices. This approach is
increasing the demand for our software products
and supports our complementary relationships
with global DSP leaders Texas Instruments and
Analog Devices. FPGA technology is increasingly
being used alongside DSP technology and we
expect this trend to continue. Another important
partner for us in the semiconductor space is
Toshiba. At the beginning of 2005 we
announced software support for Toshiba’s Media
embedded Processor or MeP. Our MeP
agreement has resulted in a new product the
“MeP kit” that leverages both our hardware and
software offerings to provide a strong
prototyping capability for ASIC designers who
are looking to integrate the MeP processor.
Our software partners help us maintain
compatibility with design flows that help
leverage our products. This year we introduced
the new Agility Compiler product, which
targets FPGA and ASIC design flows. To allow
us to better address the ASIC market we
initiated a partnership with Synopsys and
have provided Agility support for their
industry leading ASIC synthesis solutions.
At the hardware board and system level, we
have developed board support packages for end
system suppliers. As part of our accelerated
computing strategy we initiated software
support for high-performance computing leaders
Silicon Graphics (SGi) and Cray, and Sundance in
the embedded DSP + FPGA space. Supporting
these hardware solutions unlocks a wider user
base for our software design solutions.
Our university program continues to provide a
strong mechanism for collaboration with over 
600 research and teaching universities worldwide.
These institutions provide local customer reference
points, potential for commercial opportunity and
are great sources of ideas and innovations.
CUSTOMERS
We have a blue-chip customer base that
continues to grow with over 100 customers in
all regions of the world including the Americas,
Asia Pacific (China, India, Japan, Singapore,
South Korea and Taiwan) and Europe. These
continued on page 4
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  page 3  
Chief Executive’s review
a year of significant progress
Celoxica’s goal is to
become one of the
primary global suppliers
of electronic system level
design technology… customers actively use more than 400 software
licenses and many more of our hardware
development and acceleration products. With
this existing customer base we are in an
enviable position to increase our growth across
these geographies. In 2005 we engaged with
24 new customers and these new customers
spanned the Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe.
By design, we focused on ensuring that these
customers would provide strategic wins in both
the embedded design and accelerated
computing markets.
PRODUCTS
Celoxica sells software based design tools, IP,
hardware and consulting solutions. Our
software products provide dramatic productivity
and competitive advantage for the design and
simulation of programmable semiconductor
devices. Our hardware products are based on
programmable semiconductors and provide
prototyping and acceleration solutions for a
wide range of industry applications. We also
provide consulting services to augment the sale
of software and hardware and to provide a
complete solution to customers.
Progress in software and IP
In 2005 we continued to develop our core ESL
design and synthesis product leading to the
launch of version 4.1 of the DK Design Suite.
DK 4.1 is the most advanced and customer
proven ESL design and synthesis solution on the
market with improved performance and
integration over past product revisions. We have
also extended our Pixelstreams product.
Pixelstreams is an IP library of over 140 video
filters. These filters can be used to graphically
capture video algorithms leading to optimised
programmable implementations when
synthesised with the DK Design Suite.
Additionally, in the past year we introduced the
Agility Compiler. Agility is our first software
design tool that supports the electronics
industry standard language for higher-level
design, SystemC. We believe Agility will enjoy
broad market appeal and will open up our total
addressable market. Agility was launched early
in the year and has gained customer traction
with some strategic design wins.
In the programmable board market, we have
extended our product range. In the past year
we have added low-end prototyping solutions
and high-end prototyping or acceleration
solutions utilising the latest high-end
semiconductor devices from our partners
Altera, Texas Instruments and Xilinx.
FINANCIALS
Our financial performance reflects the success
of the Group. Overall we delivered turnover
growth of 24% and I am particularly pleased
that the Americas recorded 71% sales growth
with turnover up from £0.9m in 2004 to
£1.5m in 2005. This was due to strong
customer wins in both the accelerated
computing and embedded ESL markets. I am
also pleased that we generated impressive
growth in Europe, reflecting the global nature
of our business.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
During the year, we averaged 57 employees.
Of those, 29 (51%) work in the engineering
department, 20 in sales and marketing (35%)
and 8 in administration (14%). Headcount
has remained flat through 2005 though we
will invest in a number of additional sales and
engineering personnel in the coming year. We
rely heavily on the commitment of our staff
and through their dedication and attention to
detail, we have accomplished a number of
significant milestones. I would like to express
my appreciation to them for their hard work,
enthusiasm and support.
OUTLOOK
We enter 2006 with great optimism. The
Group has made significant progress during
the year and we have established a solid
platform in two growing markets – embedded
design (ESL) and accelerated computing. We
will continue to invest in developing and
commercialising new technology for these
markets. In addition, we have invested
resources to support our growing number of
strategic partners and customers which we
believe will enable the Group to continue to
grow its revenue in the coming years. Our two
key markets are growing rapidly and we are
extremely well positioned to take advantage
of this growth. Trading to date is in line with
our expectations and we expect a successful
outcome for the year.
Philip Bishop Chief Executive Officer
Customer Applications
We sell and market our products into the
following end markets: Automotive;
Bioinfomatics; Communications; Computing;
Industrial; Consumer Electronics; Defence &
Aerospace; Enterprise & High Performance
Imaging and Security.
Typical applications developed using our
technology include:
Automotive Our technology is enabling the
design of next-generation in-car electronics and
automotive safety systems such as adaptive
cruise control, ‘Infotainment’ and navigation.
Bioinformatics This market includes
biometrics and gene sequencing. Celoxica’s
solutions provide computing acceleration to
speed up the information analysis that is
essential for cutting-edge bioinformatics and
medical applications.
Communications Our design tools facilitate
faster, more reliable design of complex SoCs
and programmable chips that are essential to
the digital communications infrastructure.
Consumer electronics Our technology is ideally
suited to the design needs of high-performance
and multi-function consumer electronics
products with their ever-shortening life cycles.
Our design tools have been used to create a
range of consumer devices such as digital
cameras, digital scanners and 3D LCD screens.
Defence & Aerospace The Group’s
technology has been deployed in this market,
where innovation, complexity and reliability
are critical. Typical applications include
sonar/radar systems, satellite communications
and infrared image processing.
Enterprise & High Performance Computing
(HPC) Our products provide a design flow
that enables the easy migration and
acceleration of existing software algorithms
into high performance, low power
programmable semiconductors used for data
mining and data processing.
Imaging, Industrial and Security Image
processing capabilities are becoming essential
in desktop printers, digital cameras,
multimedia devices and security systems.
Within industrial, Celoxica’s customers design
factory automation. Machine Vision is an
example area where Celoxica’s technology
and ESL design is enabling innovation in the
industrial design and manufacture process. It
rapidly brings the benefits of real-time video
and image processing to production
manufacture environments.
page 4 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Chief Executive’s review
Turnover by origin
Europe, Middle East and 
Africa £1.3m
Asia Pacific £1.5m
The Americas £1.5m   The electronic products
designed using our tools
serve markets where
complex algorithms 
are common…
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  page 5
Chief Executive’s review
about us
our business 
& markets
how we work –
meeting future  
design challenges
Celoxica develops and
markets software design
tools, development boards,
intellectual property cores
and professional services
that enable innovative
electronic design solutions
for growth markets.
In a typical application, customers use
Celoxica’s tools to compile software
algorithms to programmable semiconductors
to massively accelerate performance and
drastically shorten the product design cycle.
The programmable chips in these products
may be deployed stand-alone, but are often
combined with general purpose
microprocessors or DSP processors. The
electronic products designed using our tools
serve markets where complex algorithms are
common such as consumer electronics,
automotive, aerospace, defence, image
processing, security and high performance
computing. In addition to software, Celoxica
offers these market sectors complementary
solutions including development and
acceleration boards, IP, training and
professional services. These additional
elements speed technology adoption, promote
customer success and grow revenue
opportunities for Celoxica. our technology is enabling the automotive value chain to
deliver greener solutions
Chief Executive’s review
page 6 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Automotive electronics
leader Fujitsu Ten selected
Celoxica’s ESL design
technology after a period of
comprehensive evaluation
and testing. The decision
was based on the results of
a large scale project to
develop an advanced motor
control hardware-in-the-loop
simulator. They have
deployed Celoxica technology
for internal Fujitsu Ten
project development and
customer services business.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite; Celoxica
Co-simulation Manager.
HELPING TO DEVELOP HIDDEN BOMB
DETECTION SOLUTIONS
HiEnergy Technologies, Inc., a developer of
advanced stoichiometric sensor devices, adopted
Celoxica’s DK Design Suite to accelerate
chemical formula analysis algorithms. These
algorithms were implemented into HiEnergy’s
SIEGMA TM 3E3 product used for the remote
detection of hidden homemade bombs. The
SIEGMA TM 3E3, including the Celoxica boards,
has been adopted by the South eastern
Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA)
to enhance the safety of the United States fifth
largest public transportation system.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite; PAL –
platform modeling and board level integration;
RC2000 Series – acceleration platform.
DEVELOPING NEXT GENERATION
MILITARY COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT
Tadiran Communication Ltd., a leading provider
of military communications technology, adopted
Celoxica’s ESL technology to accelerate its next
generation product design. Development
focuses upon Military Tactical Radios and
Systems in the HF, VHF and UHF bands. The DK
Design Suite will be deployed to implement
very complex signal processing and
communications algorithms in programmable
FPGA hardware.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite; PAL –
platform modeling and board level integration.
“We chose to work with Celoxica
because they provided us with a
complete software and hardware
acceleration solution for optimizing 
the performance of our C algorithms…”
Dr. Bogdan Maglich, CEO and Chief Scientist
HiEnergy Technologies, Inc. 
“The type of design work we
undertake is becoming more complex
and more time critical, and we
needed a design tool that would
enable us to achieve increased
flexibility, faster development and
easier maintenance…”
Danny Koenig, Modems Director
Tadiran Communications Ltd
Image courtesy of US DoD “THROUGH EXTENSIVE TESTING
WE HAVE PROVED THAT WE CAN
INTEGRATE C-BASED DESIGN
AND SYNTHESIS WITH MODEL
BASED DESIGN APPROACHES.
THIS BETTER ENABLES US TO
TURN SOFTWARE INTO SILICON
AND IT WILL HAVE A
BENEFICIAL IMPACT ON OUR
PRODUCTIVITY AND OUR
CUSTOMER RESPONSIVENESS…”
Mr. Tonou, 
Department General Manager, 
Fujitsu Ten
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  page 7
Chief Executive’s review our vision is enabling the consumer 
Chief Executive’s review
“…Using C-based design and synthesis
technology we were able to easily
capture the complex watermarking
algorithms and accelerate the
detection scheme in a co-processor,
exploiting the power and performance
benefits of programmable hardware.”
Yasushi Inoguchi, Associate Professor at 
the Center for Information Science at JAIST
”…We chose to work with Celoxica as
it has the proven tools in C-based
design and synthesis that enables our
internal and external customers to
design more quickly, with lower risk.”
Tohru Furuyama, Ph.D., General Manager, 
SoC Research & Development Center,
Toshiba Corporation Semiconductor Company
page 8 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
Leading Japanese consumer
electronics companies have
selected Celoxica’s ESL
design technology and IP to
accelerate the prototyping
and development of their
imaging products, from
hand held volume consumer
devices to high-end office
equipment and peripherals.
Advanced digital imaging
products such as modern
digital cameras, scanners,
copiers and integrated
media devices rely upon
increasingly sophisticated
and powerful algorithms
that are embedded in
electronic circuits.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite;
PixelStreams – video IP library; DSM – hardware/
software co-design tool; PAL – platform modeling
and board level integration; RC Series –
prototyping and development platforms.
HELPING TO SECURE DIGITAL INFORMATION
Researchers at Japan’s Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (JAIST) used Celoxica
technology to develop a high speed digital
watermarking detection system with real-time
operation across the Internet. Digital
watermarking is increasingly used in response to
the escalating misuse, and illegal copying and
distribution of multimedia content. Digital
watermarks embed hidden data into digital
content or media and contain copyright
information identifying the origins, ownership
and authenticity of the content. The Digital
watermarking algorithms were accelerated in a
hardware co-processor resulting in a low-power
solution that runs detection scanning 148 times
faster than software only configurations. The
complex algorithm design was implemented
using Celoxica’s ESL tools and RC Series
development boards.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite; PAL –
platform modeling and board level integration;
RC2000 Series – acceleration platform.
TOSHIBA CHOOSE CELOXICA FOR
ADVANCED DIGITAL MEDIA
Toshiba selected Celoxica as a key technology
provider for its digital media System-On-Chip
solution called the Media embedded Processor
(MeP). Celoxica’s technology provides a
comprehensive design, simulation and
prototyping environment for complex digital
media SoC designs based on the MeP. By
combining Celoxica’s ESL design tools and RC
Series development boards, designers targeting
the Media embedded Processor have a low-risk,
high-productivity route to design exploration for
digital media SoC. Consumer applications such
as digital audio processing can be developed
more quickly and coprocessing technology can
be leveraged for better end product performance
and lower power consumption.
Products deployed: DK Design Suite; Celoxica
Co-simulation Manager; DSM – hardware/
software co-design tool; PAL – platform
modeling and board level integration; RC300
Series – prototyping and development platform.
our vision is enabling the consumer
have greater vision Chief Executive’s review
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005  page 9
“BY USING OUR TECHNOLOGY,
CONSUMER ELECTRONICS
DESIGNERS HAVE A MORE
RAPID AND DIRECT ROUTE TO
SILICON FROM THEIR SOFTWARE
ALGORITHMS AND CAN
OPTIMIZE COMPONENTS SUCH
AS CODECS, FILTERS AND
COMPLEX MATHEMATICAL
CALCULATIONS MORE QUICKLY
FROM THE SYSTEM LEVEL.
PRODUCTS CAN BE DEVELOPED
MORE QUICKLY, WITH LESS RISK
AND AT A LOWER COST.”
Edouard Vincent,
Engineering Manager
