 “Given the industry
endorsement of Celoxica’s
technology in Accelerated
Computing and the growth
potential of that market
the Group has adopted a
re-balanced strategy. ”
OVERVIEW
2006 was an important year in Celoxica’s
development. The emerging technologies of
Accelerated Computing (AC) are being adopted
by more markets as the benefits become
compelling. Celoxica’s proprietary technology
gives it a unique position to exploit this trend
by providing our customers with a step change
in computing power.
Difficult conditions in the Group’s traditional
market of Embedded System Level Design (ESL)
constrained sales in 2006 and a restructuring
programme was implemented post year end 
to reduce headcount from 58 to 39. To
complement the lower cost base a further
funding round was initiated to give Celoxica 
the resources needed to exploit a major growth
opportunity in the AC market.
STRATEGY
Given the industry endorsement of Celoxica’s
technology in AC and the growth potential 
of that market the Group has adopted a 
re-balanced strategy which focuses on the AC
market while supporting the existing
embedded customers. 
The Group will continue to build its partner
portfolio to secure complementary
intellectual property (IP), technology and
market access with the aim of providing the
customer with a complete, easy to use
solution for accelerated computing.
Regular reviews are undertaken of proprietary
IP and the value of any deemed non-core will
be maximised through trade sale.
MARKETS
Accelerated Computing
Large IT systems are increasingly subject to
constraints on power consumption and
consequent heat dissipation. The market
trend is for faster processing of larger
amounts of data at lower power consumption
and capital cost. This issue is most acute in
the Finance, Oil and Gas and Life Sciences
markets and it is these sectors that Celoxica
is targeting with solutions that can
demonstrate performance increases of 10 to
30 times that of existing microprocessors.
Embedded Systems
Whilst there remains a tangible worldwide
demand for embedded design software tools,
growth in the market slowed during 2006
largely as a result of migration of design work
to the Indian and Asia-Pacific regions. However,
we continue to see our solutions applied in a
large variety of applications. Our presence in
the automotive sector increased and we
continue to make good progress in a number of
imaging markets where our products have
always enjoyed strong appeal.
PARTNERSHIPS
Exploitation of the AC market will depend 
on our key partner relationships with
organisations in the semiconductor and
computer systems industries, and within the
world’s research institutes and universities.
During the period the Group enhanced the
relationship with two important partners,
Xilinx and Altera, the dominant companies in
the manufacture of FPGAs. We worked with
Xilinx to ensure that we have the best joint
software and silicon offering. We also
teamed up with AMD to provide a processor
offload solution for their high performance
Opteron processor. Finally, we continue to
invest in our partnership with Toshiba by
offering development kits as a prototyping
solution for ASIC designers.
continued on page 4
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  page 3  
Chief Executive’s review
an important year 
in Celoxica’s development At the hardware board and system level we have
teamed with DRC Computer Corporation to
provide a hardware and software plug-in
accelerated computing solution for AMD
Opteron based systems. This is an exciting
development that matches Celoxica’s expertise
in software with DRC’s excellence in the
provision of plug-in hardware to provide a stand
alone workstation solution. Within academia, we
put in place a partnership with the Academy of
Sciences of the Czech Republic (UTIA) research
institute giving us ownership of important IP in
relation to high-speed floating point
calculations, a critical component of our
accelerated computing strategy.
CUSTOMERS
Over 400 licenses of the core embedded design
technology are in use in a number of
application areas such as automotive,
communications, consumer, imaging and
industrial. We have also maintained a very
strong academic programme with more than
600 Universities counted as ongoing customers.
The sales channel for AC is expanding showing
firm engagements with many blue-chip
customers in the Finance, Oil and Gas, and Life
Sciences sectors. Typically, opportunities
transition through a three stage commercial
process: proof of concept, pilot study and
production roll out. It is encouraging to note
that many customers are now moving through
the commercial process where in due course we
expect to see significant revenue generation.
PRODUCTS
Celoxica sells computer acceleration. To put
that acceleration into place customers buy our
software design tool licenses, IP, hardware
boards and consulting. During the year we
continued to invest in the development of the
product set. This has made it easier to
integrate into customer solutions, further
improving performance and adding new
features that are critical for our customer base.
In addition, following the collaboration 
with UTIA we have been able to improve
significantly the degree to which our technology
accelerates calculations that are a critical
component for finance (derivative calculations),
oil and gas exploration (seismic analysis) and
bioinformatics sequencing challenges.
We have invested in our board support
packages for partners such as Cray, DRC and
SGI and also created a world class platform for
accelerated computing of our own. This uses
proprietary design to make our interface
between the main processor and co-processor
one of the fastest architectures in the industry.
FINANCIALS
Our financial performance reflects a
reduction in the number of ESL market
opportunities. Overall turnover fell 16% to
£3.6m with a commensurate increase in
losses. In January 2007 we completed the
Placing of new ordinary shares, raising
£2.9m, net of expenses. On 9 January 2007
the Group announced a restructuring and, 
as a result, implemented a cost reduction
programme with expected net savings of
approximately £2.0m per year compared 
with the 2006 operating cost base of
approximately £6.0m.
MANAGEMENT AND STAFF
During the year we had an average of 58
employees. Following the completion of the
restructuring the headcount has been reduced
to 39 with an increased weighting now being
given to AC development. I would like to
express my appreciation to all employees for
what has been a challenging year.
OUTLOOK
As we enter 2007 the Group is better
positioned to exploit opportunities for the
application of its technology in the AC
market. Partner relationships with some of the
most successful hardware and systems
companies in the industry are in place and
the level of customer interest is high. We will
also maintain our momentum in the ESL
market. In addition, we have realigned the
Group to operate on a lower cost base and
have established a much stronger platform for
growth. We believe this will provide Celoxica
the greatest chance of long term success and
will lead to a positive outcome for the year.
Ian Yeoman Chief Executive Officer
page 4 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chief Executive’s review
As we enter 2007 the Group
is better positioned to
exploit opportunities for the
application of its technology
in the AC market.
Over 400 licenses of the
core embedded design
technology are in use in a
number of application areas
such as automotive,
communications, consumer,
imaging and industrial. FPGA based co-processors
increase supercomputer and
clustered server computing
performance, reduce power
consumption and lower the
total cost of high performance
computing ownership.
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  page 5
Chief Executive’s review
about us
our business 
& markets
how we work –
meeting future  
design challenges
Accelerated Computing is
defined by the convergence of
software programmable FPGAs,
high speed interconnect and
system level design tools. These
technologies are changing the
dynamics of high performance
computing and collectively
provide a compelling solution 
to the challenges of compute
intensive processing.
In a complex data driven world, imagine what
you could do with faster computing power:
master global financial markets more quickly,
be the first to harness new energy supplies,
discover cures for diseases faster. That’s
precisely what many of our Accelerated
Computing customers are striving to achieve;
exploit advances in computing technology to
dramatically improve the timeliness and
accuracy of their information based decision
making, lower their business and investment
risk and maximise profitability.
Celoxica’s Accelerated Computing solutions
enable government and industry to design
and rapidly deploy FPGA based co-processors
that accelerate the performance of their
computing services. Our technology allows
programmers and engineers to create
application accelerators and utilize the latest
developments in computer interconnect
technology such as HyperTransport™.
Because the co-processors are FPGA based,
they can be programmed and reprogrammed
as often as is required and will scale as
application requirements change and grow. In
addition and as the name suggests, the 
co-processors work alongside and augment
existing microprocessor technology. This
means existing computation investment is
assured and the FPGA co-processors add real
and measurable value. Providing the financial and investment community 
with accelerated computing solutions
Chief Executive’s review
page 6 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chance is not an option in
today’s 24/7 financial world
with traders and investors
increasing their reliance upon
very complex modelling and
simulation techniques to
mitigate risk and inform their
investment strategies. Some 
of the world’s leading banking
and investment institutions
are working with Celoxica to
implement accelerated
computing solutions that
deliver ever more accurate
multi-billion dollar investment
information, more quickly and
at a lower cost.
ENTERPRISE CLASS 
CO-PROCESSOR ACCELERATION
Celoxica and Appro International Inc. have
created an off-the-shelf FPGA co-processing
solution for enterprise customers built on
Appro’s XtremeServer and Celoxica’s
co-processor card. Customer benchmarks
demonstrate that this computing architecture
addresses the need for significant performance
improvement without associated power
consumption and heat dissipation issues
common in compute intensive applications.
ACCELERATING HIGH DEFINITION 
TV (HDTV)
Taiwanese company Chunghwa Picture Tubes,
Ltd (CPT) is using Celoxica technology to
expedite the development of HDTV and
advanced display technologies. Increasing
product complexity, time-to-market pressures
and evolving display standards motivated CPT
to adopt technology from Celoxica to help
deliver a high-definition future.
“Appro is pleased to support AMD’s
Torrenza Initiative and happy to support
Celoxica’s family of accelerated
computing solutions. This solution
complements our existing XtremeServer
products providing compiler and hardware
interface support to enable FPGA-based
co-processing for a wide range of high
performance and enterprise computing.”
Daniel Kim, CEO of Appro
“We identified that we could successfully
integrate design technology and IP from
Celoxica as part of our overall product
design strategy. By making use of
Celoxica’s PixelStreams IP library we can
almost immediately implement pre and
post image processing on an RC340
development board that supports the
HDTV(p) standard.”
Dr. Tai, Project Manager at TFT Business Unit, CPT “FAST, ACCURATE ANSWERS
REPRESENT A HUGE TRADING
ADVANTAGE AND LOWER
INVESTMENT RISK. BY
LEVERAGING CELOXICA’S
ACCELERATED COMPUTING
TECHNOLOGY OUR CUSTOMERS
CAN QUICKLY HARNESS THE
BENEFITS OF CO-PROCESSORS 
TO DELIVER INFORMATION
MORE QUICKLY THAN EVER
BEFORE, INFORMATION THAT
CAN DELIVER VALUABLE
INVESTMENT IMPACT.”
Ian Yeoman, CEO
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  page 7
Chief Executive’s review Chief Executive’s review
page 8 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Global oil and gas companies
are tapping into Celoxica’s
Accelerated Computing
solutions to improve the
accuracy of their exploration
data and systems. With multi-
billion dollar investment
decisions becoming increasingly
complex and business critical,
companies are strengthening
their competitive advantage by
accelerating compute intensive
exploration applications, such
as seismic data collection and
analysis. These applications are
ideally suited to the coprocessor
acceleration technology
provided by Celoxica.
FPGA BASED 
ACCELERATED COMPUTING
Celoxica and SGI have teamed to deliver
solutions for algorithm acceleration using
FPGAs. SGI includes copies of Celoxica’s design
software as part of its RASC high performance
computing development kit. The reconfigurable
FPGA chips can be programmed by a customer
to optimize their specific tasks. Coprocessing
systems offer orders of magnitude performance
improvements at lower power and heat than
conventional microprocessors alone. Applications
that can benefit from this approach include
image recognition, decryption, gene comparison,
video format translation, and data compression
to name a few.
SAFETY AND SECURITY 
WTH REAL-TIME IMAGE 
RECOGNITION SYSTEMS
Calsonic Kansei Corp. developed a new 
drive-by-wire automotive system to reduce
traffic accidents and gridlock on crowded
freeways. The system uses Celoxica technology
for on-board automotive intelligent
transportation systems (ITS).
The system captures and identifies a vehicle in
real-time with more than double the
performance, inherent adaptability and with
lower power consumption than previous systems.
Using license-plate recognition to calculate
criteria such as distance and position, the system
allows the driver to maintain a safe distance
from a car in front. Connected to a car mounted
CCD (charge-coupled device) camera, total
processing time that included intensity
conversion and color sorting was reduced form
21.56ms to only 10.0ms.
providing oil and gas companies with
billion dollar investment information
“Celoxica tools give RASC customers an
easy-to-use programming environment for
accelerating their C software algorithms
using the parallel processing capabilities
of FPGA without going through hardware
description languages.”
Steve Miller, former Chief Engineer,
System Architecture, at SGI
“FPGAs are a better choice than ASICs and
Celoxica provided a distinct advantage by
helping us to design and implement
quickly the different design parameters
needed by the project.”
Mr. Masatoshi Arai, Manager, 
Advanced Engineering Development Group,
Calsonic Kansei Corp. Chief Executive’s review
Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006  page 9
“WE BELIEVE THAT FPGA
TECHNOLOGY WILL ALLOW US
TO ACHIEVE MUCH GREATER
PERFORMANCE LEVELS THAN
ARE POSSIBLE WITH
PROCESSOR-ONLY BASED
SYSTEMS. INITIAL RESULTS
HAVE BEEN VERY PROMISING,
AND WITH OUR PARTNER
CELOXICA, WE ARE LOOKING
FORWARD TO CONTINUED
PROGRESS IN THE AREA OF
ACCELERATED COMPUTING.”
Henri Calandra, HPC Team, Total
