 OVERVIEW
In this, my second Chairman’s review since
Celoxica became a public company, we have
just completed a very challenging year.
During the year we saw a decline in revenues
of 16% versus 2005 driven by the slowing of
the Electronic System Level Design (ESL)
market where the embedded part of this
market has traditionally been the major source
of revenues for the Group. This has been
partially offset by continued good progress in
the emerging accelerated computing market
where Celoxica technology offers significant
benefits to the customer.
Whilst it is expected that the ESL market will
regain its higher growth trajectory at some
stage in the future, in the short to medium
term, the Accelerated Computing (AC) market
offers a much better growth prospect for
Celoxica. To this end the Group has now
shifted its strategic focus to the AC market.
To support this new strategy a placing to raise
£2.9m, net of expenses was completed in
February 2007 and, in parallel a restructuring
of the Group has reduced the cost base by
£2m to approximately £4m.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
The Group’s revenue was £3.6m, down 16%
over the same period in 2005. Our operating
loss was £4.2m (2005: loss £3.2m). Net cash
at year end was £157,000. In February 2007,
the Group completed a Placing of 18,756,250
new ordinary shares at 16pence per share
raising £3.0m before expenses (£2.9m net).
On 9 January the Group announced a
restructuring programme which will lead to
savings of £2.0m a year on the 2006 cost
base of approximately £6.0m.
STRATEGY
The Group is now executing on its strategy of
taking full advantage of opportunities in the
accelerated computing market. We have
completed a number of benchmarks which
demonstrate that an FPGA co-processor
solution using Celoxica technology can offer
significant improvements in speed, power
consumption and heat generation compared
to conventional microprocessor technology.
Our strategy is to exploit these strengths in
those industries where they create maximum
value; our initial targets are Finance, Oil and
Gas and Life Sciences.
BOARD CHANGES
On 31 January 2007, Phil Bishop stepped
down as Chief Executive Officer. I would like
to thank Phil for his contribution to the Group
over the last four and a half years. A search 
is underway for a new Chief Executive Officer.
In the meantime Ian Yeoman, who was a 
Non-Executive Director of the Group, has 
been appointed as Interim Chief Executive. 
On 28 February 2007 Bernard Morgan
stepped down as Chief Financial Officer and
was succeeded by Michelle Young who was
previously Group Financial Controller for
Celoxica. I would also like to thank Bernard
for his contribution to the Group over the last
seven years.
SUMMARY
After a difficult year I am now confident that
the strategy and the shape of Celoxica are
correct to exploit the opportunities in the
accelerated computing market whilst
maintaining our relationships with existing
embedded customers. Although some
challenges remain I believe that the
accelerated computing market will provide the
growth engine for Celoxica for the years
ahead. We have just completed a painful cost
reduction exercise which was necessary to
preserve the Group’s resources and realign the
organisation to the new market opportunity. I
would like to thank our employees,including
those who have recently left us in the
restructuring, for their contribution during
2006. Finally I would like to thank our
customers, partners and shareholders for their
continued support.
Jack Fryer Chairman
page 2 Celoxica Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
Chairman’s review
a challenging year
“I am now confident that the
strategy and the shape of
Celoxica are correct to
exploit the opportunities in
the accelerated computing
market…”
