 Overview
Celsis’ products and laboratory services
provide solutions to one of the most
important issues confronting today’s
pharmaceutical and consumer product
industries - the need to continuously maximise
the efficiency of their operations and reduce
costs.  
During the year, Celsis has
consolidated its position as a world-leading
provider of innovative life science products
and laboratory services to the
pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical, 
and consumer product industries.  
Each division (Analytical Services,
Rapid Detection and In Vitro Technologies)
aims to deliver substantial time and cost
savings to its customers, in addition to
ensuring product quality and safety for
consumers.  The markets in which we
operate are rapidly growing as companies
increasingly recognise the value of
technology and services that are able 
to save them time and money.  
The financial results being reported
for the year ended 31 March 2007 continue
Celsis’ strong track record in recent years of
growth in its original two businesses.  This
year, we added a third division to the
business with the acquisition of IVT which
provides in vitro products and drug
development services to improve efficiency 
in the drug discovery and development
process.
With leading technologies and
operating in fast growing markets, Celsis
today is well positioned to continue its track
record of strong growth both organically and
by acquisition.  
Summary of results
For the year ended 31 March 2007, we 
are pleased to announce record revenue 
and profit growth.  Total revenue increased
43.3% to $47.4 million (2006: $33.1
million) with organic revenue up 15.1% to
$38.1 million (2006: $33.1 million) and IVT
contributing $9.3 million in the 8.3 months
since acquisition on 20 July 2006.  Profit
before tax increased 20.1% to $8.7 million
(2006: $7.2 million) and EBITDA increased
34.9% to $11.00 million (2006: $8.16
million). 
We have integrated the recently
acquired IVT business into Celsis and
continue to look for future acquisition
opportunities.  We see healthy, sustainable
business growth from the new consolidated
Group and remain confident in both the
short and long-term prospects for the
Company.            
Celsis Analytical Services
Celsis’ Analytical Services division provides
outsourced laboratory testing services to
pharmaceutical companies to ensure the
safety, stability and chemical composition of
their products.  The trend by pharmaceutical
companies to outsource their analytical
testing, especially in the US, has accelerated
in recent years to an estimated market size 
of over $2 billion - now growing at
approximately 10% per year.  
The outsourcing of analytical services
saves our clients’ headcount and laboratory
space and allows them to focus their
resources on research and drug discovery
and development.  In addition to providing
these important benefits of outsourcing,
Celsis has also carved out an important
9 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Jay LeCoque
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive’ s
review Celsis’ products
and laboratory services
provide solutions to one
of the most important
issues confronting
today’s pharmaceutical
and consumer product
industries - the need to
continuously maximise
the efficiency of their
operations and reduce
costs.   Celsis International plc Annual Report 2007 10
Chief Executive’s review
niche in this large market by providing faster
results to its customers.  The Company can
provide results in just 10 days, with a very
focused customer service offering, compared
to an industry standard of 15 days to 20
days, with little to no customer service.
Celsis can therefore secure a price premium
for this added value.  
Revenues from the Analytical
Services division, which represented 43% of
Group revenues, grew by 25.7% to $20.4
million (2006: $16.3 million).  This was an
exceptionally strong year driven by strong
customer growth across all segments of the
division.  
Our New Jersey chemistry business
increased revenues by 37% to $9.0 million
and benefited from investments to expand its
capacity during the year.  This operation is
working to consolidate the significant
increases seen in customer growth in the
year to come.  The St Louis chemistry
business posted a very healthy increase in
revenues of 18% to $6.2 million for the year
and has more than recovered the lost ground
from the temporary slow down experienced
last year.  Our biological sciences business
units from both sites saw healthy increases in
revenues which combined increased 19% to
$5.3 million with the addition of several new
customer contracts.
Our Business Development team
continues to concentrate on securing new
business with major customer contracts.
Over the past year, we have obtained a
number of valuable new long-term contracts
with many blue chip pharmaceutical
companies and have also been successful in
renewing our existing business agreements
with our largest pharmaceutical and
biotechnology customers. 
Celsis Rapid Detection
Celsis’ Rapid Detection division provides
testing systems to detect microbial
contamination (the presence of bacteria or
other organic contaminants in manufactured
products) more rapidly than older more
traditional technologies such as agar plates.
Traditional agar plates can take up to 7 days
to provide a confirmation of “no growth”
whereas Celsis’ systems can provide a “no
growth” confirmation in just 24 hours.
Celsis’ rapid detection systems are currently
addressing an industrial market estimated to
be approximately $200 million and growing
at 12% to 15% per year.  New applications
and technologies will expand this market
much faster by expanding the numbers of
testing procedures that can be transitioned
from traditional agar testing to rapid testing
systems.     
By reducing its customers’
manufacturing cycle times by several days,
the Celsis rapid detection system can save
valuable working capital in everything from
reduced need for raw materials and safety
stock, to lower finished product inventory
levels and a decrease in warehouse space.
These reductions in working capital
materially increase the efficiency and
productivity of facilities that use Celsis
technology, thereby delivering a measurable
financial benefit to Celsis’ customers.  In
addition, if there is a product contamination
episode, the use of Celsis technology means
that customers can be alerted that corrective
action is required in 24 hours vs multiple
days, using traditional agar methods, which
is also of significant financial and potentially
brand value to Celsis’ customers.  
Revenues from the Rapid Detection
division, which represented 37.2% of Group
revenues, increased 4.8% to $17.7 million
(2006: $16.8 million), following the slight
decrease (-1%) posted in the first half due to
a temporary slowdown in instrument sales.
This increase was driven by increased
instrument placements in the second half, as
well as by continued healthy growth in
reagents and consumables sales.  Reagents
and consumables now represent over 85%
of the Rapid Detection division’s revenues
indicating that our recurring revenue 
business model remains robust.
We continue to focus on expanding
our presence in the pharmaceutical industry
and were pleased to receive two Drug
Master File (“DMF”) acceptances during the
year from the US FDA.  The Celsis DMF
benefits Celsis’ pharmaceutical customers 
by providing specific regulatory information
which can be referenced in drug
applications making the approval process
more efficient.  We were also pleased that
Celsis’ Rapid Detection system is the first
rapid microbiological method to be
described in an approved original New
Drug Application (“NDA”) following the 
FDA approval of GSK’s Veramyst
TM
.  
We also continue to invest in R&D 
to ensure that Celsis remains the leader in its
respective fields of interest.  Our work with
new enzyme and nucleic acid technologies
has resulted in a patent application that has
been filed during the year and we look
forward to testing these new detection
systems with customers as part of our product
development activity in the coming year.
$20.4m
Analytical Services revenues up 25.7%
New Jersey chemistry revenues increased
37% to $9.0m during the financial year 
We have integrated the recently acquired IVT business
into Celsis and continue to look for future acquisition
opportunities.  We see healthy, sustainable business
growth from the new consolidated Group and remain
confident in both the short and long-term prospects 
for the Company.             $9.3m
In Vitro Technologies revenues since 20 July 2006
Integration of In Vitro Technologies proceeding 
as planned 
$17.7m
Rapid Detection revenues up 4.8% 
Second Celsis Drug Master File (DMF) accepted
by the US Food and Drug Administration for
Adenylate Kinase pharmaceutical rapid
detection system
11 Celsis International plc Annual Report 2007
Chief Executive’s review
Celsis In Vitro Technologies
The pharmaceutical industry is under
unprecedented pressure to improve its
research and development productivity.  As
such, the number of drug compounds under
development has expanded significantly over
the past years.  It is critical that companies
progress new compounds into viable drug
candidates as quickly as possible.  Days and
weeks saved early in the drug development
process can mean millions of dollars saved
in the overall cost of bringing a new drug to
market.  
Celsis In Vitro Technologies division
(IVT) helps accelerate drug development by
providing in vitro testing products and
development services to the pharmaceutical
and biotechnology industries.  Approximately
80% of IVT’s revenues come from its products
and 20% from development services.  IVT’s
primary product offering is cryo-preserved
human liver cells that allow its customers to
determine how well a particular drug
compound will be metabolised by the human
liver.  FDA guidance released in September
2006 has outlined their acceptance of cryo-
preserved cells as equivalent to fresh liver
cells and Celsis views this as an important
development in the continued evolution and
expansion of this new business.  IVT’s in vitro
products screen drug compounds early in the
drug discovery process, thereby reducing the
time and cost of drug development.  The
market for in vitro products and development
services is estimated to be approximately
$600 million and is growing at 15% per
year.  Celsis IVT is operating in an important
niche market that focuses on the ability of the
human liver to metabolise drug compounds,
which is a critical check box in the drug
discovery process.  
Revenues from the IVT division since
completion of the acquisition on 20 July
2006 were $9.3 million and represented
19.8% of Group revenues, adding
significantly to this year’s second half.  We
project that on an annualised basis, IVT will
represent approximately 30% of Group
revenues in the coming years.  Annualising
the 8.3 months of Celsis IVT revenue since
acquisition would give pro-forma annual
revenues of $13.5 million, which is well
within our expectations during the first year
of acquisition.  
In our IVT product business unit, we
have expanded our business development
team to include scientific advisory staff to
help customers install and validate IVT's
products in their labs.  A similar strategy 
was employed to help increase reagent 
and consumable sales in our Rapid Detection
division, that has been very well received by
our customers.  In doing so, we have also
realigned the focus of our business
development team on generating new
business with larger customers, in a strategy
similar to that which we have employed in
our Analytical Services division with success.
Operationally, we are focusing on
higher margin products and ensuring that 
we have scalable product manufacturing 
that continues to meet the highest quality
standards expected by Celsis IVT’s growing
customer base.  As a pioneer in liver cell
technology, Celsis IVT will continue to lead
the industry in product quality, innovation
and superior customer and technical service.
As part of our integration, IVT’s
Development Services business unit is now
managed by our Analytical Services division,
which has started to develop considerable
cross-selling and operational synergies.  The
addition of IVT’s Development Services to our
analytical services’ offering means that Celsis
Analytical Services can offer a much more
comprehensive set of services that will allow
larger contract size and scope than was
previously available from Celsis.  Revenues
and profits from these two business units will
continue to be reported under the IVT
division for optimal financial transparency.   
Outlook
During the past year we have integrated 
a growing IVT business unit into the Group
whilst continuing to deliver strong growth 
in both revenues and profits.  
All three divisions are now 
well placed to continue to deliver healthy
increases in both revenues and profit as 
the markets for our products and services
continue to expand.  We will continue to
focus on both organic as well as acquisitive
growth in the disciplined approach that we
have demonstrated previously.  We believe
that we are well placed to deliver continuing
strong growth for shareholders in the coming
years.    
We would like to take this
opportunity to thank all of our employees 
for their many individual and combined
contributions toward making this past year 
a success.  We would also like to thank our
new and existing shareholders for their
continued support during the year and
confidence in Celsis.
