 Strategy
After a difﬁcult eighteen months CeNeS is now securely
established as a small, well funded biotechnology company
focused on its late stage clinical candidates – morphine-6-
glucuronide (M6G) and CNS 5161- that are targeted at the
treatment of post-operative and neuropathic pain respectively.
CeNeS plans to eventually license these potential products to
pharmaceutical companies who will then complete their clinical
development, gain marketing approvals and commercialise the
products.
CeNeS medium term strategy is to take M6G and CNS 5161
through further Phase III and Phase II trials respectively in the
next 18 months with the intention of assembling comprehensive
data packages which will enhance the ability of the Company to
locate suitable partners for the ﬁnal development and
commercialisation of these planned drugs. Concurrently, CeNeS
will manage its cash resources prudently and plans to carry out
the M6G and CNS 5161 clinical programmes referred to above
and still have cash resources to fund operations into late 2005.
CeNeS management will also continue to examine in-licensing
opportunities with the intention of expanding the portfolio if
suitable drug candidates and acceptable ﬁnancial deal
structures/clinical investment plans can be agreed. CeNeS
Board will also, with the assistance of its advisors, continue to
review corporate transactions that it judges to be in the
interests of CeNeS shareholders. CeNeS improved ﬁnancial
position means that it is better placed to obtain value for
shareholders should any transaction proceed to completion.
CeNeS continues to have a diverse range of interests in 
non-core assets that have been sold or partnered under the
restructuring programme. In the longer term this portfolio could
generate up to $20 million plus royalty streams if various
milestones and targets are achieved under the agreed
contracts. Under its strategic plan CeNeS management will
continue to monitor the progress of these interests.
Pharmaceutical products sale
Raising funds from the disposal of the pharmaceutical products
reduces the Company’s dependence on Elan in the continuing
late stage development of M6G and enables the Company
alone to continue the clinical development of M6G until a new
partner is secured.
The proceeds of the disposals will also allow the Company 
to develop its second clinical candidate, CNS 5161, targeted 
at the treatment of neuropathic pain. Phase II clinical trials of
CNS 5161 are planned to commence as soon as practicable 
in 2003. The funds raised from the disposal will also remove
any perceived short term risk associated with the Company’s
cash resources and will enable the Board to negotiate further
partnership deals from a more ﬁnancially secure position,
thereby increasing the prospects of the Board realising greater
value to shareholders.
CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2002 3
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s review Elan Joint Venture
On 18 June 2003 CeNeS announced that it has reached
agreement with Elan Corporation to terminate the CeNeS/Elan
joint venture which was established in June 2001 to develop
M6G for the treatment of pain. CeNeS alone will now plan to
take forward and fund the clinical development of M6G as it
enters its phase III program for the treatment of post-operative
pain until a new partner is found.
Under the terms of the agreement CeNeS and Elan have
agreed that the joint development programmes are terminated
and that the respective rights to M6G and certain drug delivery
technologies are returned to CeNeS and Elan. The minority
shareholding held by Elan in CeNeS Bermuda Limited will be
transferred to CeNeS. CeNeS has agreed to pay Elan a
percentage of all future revenues CeNeS generates from M6G.
CeNeS and Elan have also agreed that no more funding shall
be available to CeNeS under the convertible loan stock
arrangements entered into in June 2001. Elan has retained its
current holding of 16.9 million ordinary shares representing
9.9% of the current issued ordinary share capital of CeNeS.
Under the terms of the 5% 2009 convertible exchangeable loan
stock (the “CELS”) and the 7% 2007 convertible unsecured
loan stock (the “CULS”) CeNeS retains the option to repay the
loan stock together with accrued interest in cash or convert the
outstanding amount into CeNeS ordinary shares in 2007 in
respect of the CULS and 2009 in respect of the CELS. CeNeS
has drawn down US$12,015,000 under the CELS and
US$2,806,000 under the CULS. If the CELS and the CULS run
to term and each of the CELS and the CULS convert into
CeNeS ordinary shares a further 20.1 million CeNeS ordinary
shares would be issued giving Elan a total shareholding of
36.9 million ordinary shares (19% of CeNeS issued share 
capital as enlarged by the issue of the new ordinary shares on
conversion). The agreement reached between CeNeS and Elan
provides that both the CELS and CULS are freely transferable
by Elan and the CELS will no longer be exchangeable for
shares in CeNeS Bermuda Limited.
Restructuring
During the period under review CeNeS management completed
the sale of two non-core divisions and several out-licensing
deals.
4
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s review (continued) Portfolio of carried interests in divested non-core assets
Following the restructuring programme commenced in late 2001, CeNeS now has carried interests in certain divested non-core
assets as shown below:
Asset disposed New owner/partner CeNeS carried interest *
Dopamine D1 receptor agonists – Shire Pharmaceuticals Group Plc Milestones and royalties
Parkinson’s research project
Ion channel library Scion Pharmaceuticals Inc Stage payments and milestones
GGF2 – potential treatment for Acorda Therapeutics, Inc Milestones and royalties
multiple sclerosis
CEE 03 310 – potential Addex Pharmaceuticals SA Milestones and royalties
treatment for sleep disorders 
and substance abuse
CEE 03 320 – potential treatment TheraSci Limited Milestones and royalties
for sleep disorders and
substance abuse
Cognitive testing division Cambridge Cognition Limited Stage payments and a milestone payment
AutoPatch technology and Xention Discovery Limited Minority shareholding, loan note and certain 
certain ion channel assets rights over potential pain drug candidates arising 
from Xention’s work
* The receipt of future milestones and/or royalties is dependent on the successful progression of the divested asset/technology
and as such is not certain.
CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2002 5 Cambridge Cognition sale
This neuropsychological testing business was sold to a
management buy out team backed by venture capitalists in
May 2002 to create a new company called Cambridge
Cognition Limited. Under the terms of the sale, CeNeS will
realise a maximum of £1m in stage payments and CeNeS
retains rights to use the CANTAB cognitive testing system in its
clinical trials. CeNeS had owned the business since early 1997
and revenues had grown to £1.1m in 2001 from £0.4m in 1997.
The division was not core to the strategy going forward and
required further investment to realise the full potential of the
technology and software that CeNeS had developed. In mid
2001, CeNeS established the necessary management team to
lead the spinout.
CeNeS Channelwork spinout
In August 2002, CeNeS announced the spinout of its ion
channel technology development business (Channelwork).
Channelwork was acquired by a new company called Xention
Discovery Limited in a transaction led by a venture capital fund
manager specialising in life sciences start-up companies. In
addition to a minority shareholding in the new company, CeNeS
retains certain option rights over clinical candidates for the
treatment of pain disorders that arise from the research
undertaken by Xention.
Under the terms of the transaction, Xention has acquired the
AutoPatch™ technology and all related intellectual property. The
CeNeS employees working on the project also transferred to
Xention. AutoPatch is a pioneering technology that enables
high-throughput functional screening of ion channel drug
targets at speeds and in volumes not possible with
conventional technology. This enhanced throughput will be
exploited by Xention to address more targets and to create
more novel chemistry than would be possible using traditional
methods. On completion, CeNeS received consideration of a
minority shareholding in Xention and a loan note of £375,000.
Disposal of other non-core assets
In late 2001, CeNeS completed the disposal of the ion-channel
focused chemical library to Scion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for
consideration of up to $2.8m. In early 2002 CeNeS assigned a
Parkinson’s disease research programme to our partner Shire
Pharmaceuticals plc and again retained an interest in the form
of milestones of up to £2m and royalties in this programme
should it proceed through clinical development.
In November 2002, CeNeS out-licensed its recombinant glial
growth factor (GGF2) for the potential treatment of multiple
sclerosis (MS) to Acorda Therapeutics, Inc. a leading US based
research and development company specialising in spinal cord
injury and central nervous system (CNS) disorders.
6
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer’s review (continued) GGF2 is involved in controlling the cells that form and maintain
the myelin sheath insulating nerve axons in the CNS. These
cells are thought to be involved early in the demyelination of
nerve ﬁbres seen in MS. A recombinant version of GGF2,
rhGGF2, is currently in late stage pre-clinical trials for multiple
sclerosis. Cambridge Neuroscience, which was acquired by
CeNeS in December 2000, along with Bayer, had originally
developed the growth factor.
Under the terms of the agreement, Acorda acquired CeNeS
rights relating to GGF2 and its earlier stage research candidate
neuregulin 2 (NRG2). In return, CeNeS will receive up to $13m
consisting of $0.5m upfront together with up to $12.5m further
stage payments dependent on the achievement of clinical
milestones. CeNeS will also receive royalties on any product
sales.
In December 2002, CeNeS signed an agreement to out-licence
CEE 03-310, its selective antagonist of dopamine D1-like
receptors, which CeNeS had been developing for the potential
treatment of sleep disorders and substance abuse. The
compound was out-licensed to Addex Pharmaceuticals, a
biopharmaceutical company committed to the discovery,
development and marketing of novel therapeutic compounds
for the treatment of addiction and other neuropsychiatric
conditions in spinal cord injury and central nervous (CNS)
disorders. Addex will focus on the development of the
compound in the treatment of drug abuse.
Under the terms of the agreement, Addex acquired CeNeS
rights relating to CEE 03-310 and in return, CeNeS will receive
up to $4.5m consisting of $0.3m upfront together with up to
$4.2m further stage payments dependent on the achievement
of clinical milestones. CeNeS will also receive royalties on any
product sales.
In March 2003, CeNeS sold its rights to the selective dopamine
DI receptor antagonist, CEE 03-320 to TheraSci Limited for a
small upfront payment. CeNeS also retains a carried interest.
Neil Clark
Chief Operating Ofﬁcer & Finance Director
CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report 2002 7
