 I am pleased to report that CeNeS has effected a successful
ﬁnancial restructuring whilst maintaining momentum in our key
clinical assets. CeNeS is now well placed to progress its late
stage clinical pipeline focused on the treatment of pain and
thereby deliver increased shareholder value.
The year of 2002 has seen the successful completion of the
main objectives of the restructuring plan commenced in late
2001. This success has been followed early in 2003 by the
completion of the disposal of our main pharmaceutical products
in return for a signiﬁcant cash consideration of over £9m. As a
result, CeNeS is now in its strongest ﬁnancial position for over
four years. The pharmaceuticals products division had
continued to perform to plan in 2002/2003 but, following the
receipt of several unsolicited offers, the Board took the view
that, in light of the poor funding environment and the
investment needed in CeNeS late stage clinical assets, the
realisation of a signiﬁcant amount of cash was the best option.
CeNeS now has sufﬁcient cash resources for at least the next
two years and the capability to take forward its two late stage
clinical projects in post-operative and neuropathic pain into their
Phase III and Phase II programmes respectively. CeNeS also
has interests in several non-core assets that have been
sold/partnered under the restructuring programme.
The attainment of this secure, focused status is a major
achievement and has been carried out against the background
of extremely adverse conditions in the public markets and the
biopharma sector in particular. In addition, CeNeS has had to
deal with the implications of the ﬁnancial restructuring plan
implemented by its key corporate partner Elan.
The successful restructuring of CeNeS and the continued
progress of our key clinical assets would not have been
possible without the efforts of everyone at CeNeS and I would
like to thank the Board, management and employees of CeNeS
for all their hard work and commitment.
In June 2003 John Buckle resigned as a director following the
disposal of the pharmaceutical products. On behalf of the
directors I would like to thank John for his valuable contribution
to CeNeS.
The Board has resolved to apply for the Company’s shares to be
admitted to AIM (Alternative Investment Market of The London
Stock Exchange). CeNeS will cancel its listing on the Ofﬁcial List.
The Directors believe that given the Company’s current market
capitalisation AIM is a more appropriate market. The Directors
and its advisors believe that there is a greater likelihood of the
Company attracting longer-term investor support in the AIM
markets and the move will allow transactions to be completed
more cost effectively. Admission to AIM is expected to be
completed by the end of July at which time the listing of the
Company’s shares on the Ofﬁcial List will be cancelled.
The Board now look forward to increasing investor interest and
conﬁdence in CeNeS starting from a sound ﬁnancial base with
a clear therapeutic focus. It is the Board’s view that increased
shareholder value will best be attained by the progression of
CeNeS existing clinical assets in pain. However, the Board will
also continue to examine realistic in-licensing and corporate
transactions when it is felt that a successful conclusion will
enhance the delivery of shareholder value.
The continuing depressed state of the biopharmaceutical sector
remains an extremely challenging operating environment for the
smaller companies such as CeNeS. The difﬁcult decisions that
the CeNeS Board has taken in the past eighteen months mean
that CeNeS is well placed to cope with the ongoing uncertainty.
Alan Goodman
Chairman
“CeNeS is now well placed to progress its late stage clinical
pipeline focused on the treatment of pain and thereby deliver
increased shareholder value”
2
Chairman’s statement
