 04 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
M6G for the treatment of post-operative pain
M6G FOR THE TREATMENT OF POST-OPERATIVE PAIN
Post-operative pain
Post-operative pain is an acute condition 
directly caused by a surgical procedure. The pain 
typically lasts for a few days and can range in 
intensity from mild to severe pain depending on 
the type and duration of the operation. There 
are over 90 million operations in the US and 
Europe each year, and patients are treated 
with a variety of different drugs to manage 
post-operative pain. 
Morphine remains the ‘gold standard’ for the 
management of severe pain despite well known 
undesirable side effects
The most potent class of known analgesic 
(pain-relieving) drugs are the opiates, derived 
from the opium poppy. Opiates act centrally 
in the brain where they mimic the actions of 
neuromodulators called endogenous opioids 
and ‘switch off’ the sensation of pain centrally. 
Morphine is an opiate and is one of the most 
effective analgesics known, remaining the 
standard treatment used for the management 
of moderate to severe pain. However, like many 
drugs it can be associated with undesirable 
side effects. These side effects can be distressing 
for patients, may lead to medical complications 
and can impose an economic burden on 
healthcare providers. 
Nausea and vomiting are amongst the most 
common side effects of morphine and up 
to 50% of patients receiving morphine can 
experience this distressing side effect. Patients 
have been reported to be willing to suffer 
a degree of pain rather than experience 
post-operative nausea and vomiting. 
“Acute post-operative pain and post-operative 
nausea and vomiting (PONV) are the negative 
outcomes commonly associated with surgery 
that patients are most anxious to avoid.” 
(Macario, A and Pergolizzi, J Pain and Nausea 
Management after Surgery, The International 
Journal of Pain Medicine and Palliative Care 
vol3 no3 2004).
Sedation is another common side effect of 
morphine treatment, and in the post-operative 
period it is complicated by the sleepiness 
caused by the anaesthetic. If patients are 
excessively sedated, it may be difﬁcult for 
doctors to accurately assess their well being. 
Respiratory depression (a reduction in breathing 
rate) is a rarer, but potentially dangerous side 
effect of morphine treatment. The body’s normal 
response to lack of oxygen or the build up 
of excessive carbon dioxide is to increase the 
“ A DRUG WITH EQUIVALENT ANALGESIA TO 
MORPHINE BUT WITH INTRINSICALLY FEWER 
SIDE EFFECTS IS OF ENORMOUS ADVANTAGE TO 
THE PATIENT AND MAY IN THE FUTURE REPLACE 
MORPHINE AS THE MOST IMPORTANT DRUG 
FOR TREATMENT OF SEVERE PAIN.”  
(Anesthesia and Analgesia 2006 V102, pp 1789–1797)
“ CeNeS has a balanced portfolio of late 
stage compounds and pre-clinical projects 
comprising morphine-6-glucuronide 
(M6G) in pivotal Phase III clinical trials 
for the treatment of post-operative pain; 
CNS5161 in Phase II clinical trials for the 
treatment of neuropathic pain; and 
CNS7056X in pre-clinical development 
as a short acting sedative for short 
surgical and non-surgical procedures. 
CeNeS also has a discovery programme 
to identify novel COMT inhibitors for 
the treatment of Parkinson’s disease 
and schizophrenia. CeNeS is focused 
primarily upon drugs that are 
administered by a hospital-based 
specialist such as an anaesthetist or 
neurologist, and that can eventually 
be promoted to the end-user by a 
small, focused hospital sales force.” 
 
This section reviews each of our four 
programmes in detail.
MORPHINE’S SUCCESSOR FOR 05 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
breathing rate to compensate. This response 
is inhibited by morphine. This can be particularly 
dangerous in the post-operative period since 
anaesthetic drugs often reduce the patient’s 
breathing rate.
Morphine metabolism 
When morphine is taken into the body it 
is broken down in the liver to two main 
metabolites, morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) 
and morphine-3-glucuronide (M3G). M6G is 
a potent active metabolite of morphine and is 
an effective analgesic, whereas M3G is ineffective. 
However, the breakdown into each of the two 
metabolites varies from patient to patient and 
can be affected by liver function and other 
factors outside the doctors’ control. Therefore, 
the amount of each metabolite that patients 
are exposed to will vary between individuals.
M6G – for the treatment of post-operative pain
CeNeS is developing a potent active metabolite 
of morphine, M6G, for the management 
of moderate to severe post-operative pain. 
Phase II and III studies have shown that M6G 
may have clinical advantages over morphine. 
These studies have shown that M6G, in 
addition to having an equivalent analgesic 
effect, may have an improved side effect 
proﬁle with a reduced tendency to cause 
respiratory depression, nausea and vomiting. 
Speciﬁcally, the M6G015 Phase III and earlier 
Phase II clinical trials have shown that M6G 
produces effective analgesia compared to 
morphine to combat post-operative pain. 
Additional Phase II clinical studies have also 
shown that M6G reduced the incidence of 
nausea and vomiting by more than 50% 
when compared directly with morphine. 
M6G also has a longer duration of action 
than morphine.
M6G clinical development 
CeNeS has continued the development of 
intravenous formulations of M6G for the 
treatment of moderate to severe post-operative 
pain and has reached the advanced stages of 
clinical development (Phase III). One Phase III 
study (M6G015) comparing effects of various 
single doses of M6G with a placebo has 
already been completed as treatment of 
post-operative pain following knee replacement 
surgery. A further, pivotal Phase III study 
(M6G022) is ongoing and is designed to 
investigate comparative treatments of M6G 
or morphine for both pain relief and side effects 
over a 24 hour period following major 
abdominal surgery.
The considerable number of studies that 
have been carried out with M6G have also 
produced a considerable safety database for 
the compound.
Patients who have been administered 
morphine will have been exposed normally 
to M6G as a result of the metabolic 
processes; approximately 10% of morphine 
is converted to M6G in the human. This is 
particularly relevant when there has been 
prolonged treatment with high doses of 
morphine, e.g. to manage cancer related 
pain. When morphine is given over a short 
period of time (e.g. 24 hours) to control 
post-operative pain, M6G is not believed 
to contribute to the analgesia obtained 
with morphine treatment.
CeNeS, therefore, is working toward compiling 
the considerable efﬁcacy and safety data that 
is required by the Regulatory Authorities for 
Market Authorisation Application in Europe. 
CeNeS has also successfully completed the 
additional pre-clinical work required by the 
Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) for  
the US market with a view to submitting an 
Investigational New Drug (“IND”) application 
in 2006. 
POST-OPERATIVE PAIN RELIEF?
SUMMARY OF M6G FOR POST-OPERATIVE PAIN
➡  CeNeS lead clinical candidate
➡  Potentially as effective as morphine 
but with a superior side effect proﬁle
➡  First Phase III trial (completed H2 2004) 
conﬁrms M6G as an effective analgesic
➡  Second Phase III trial underway – results 
due H2 2006 06 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
M6G for the treatment of post-operative pain
GLOBAL MARKETS FOR M6G
PHASE III STUDIES 
Completed Phase III study (M6G015)
The ﬁrst Phase III trial of M6G was completed 
in 2005. This initial Phase III trial (designated 
M6G study M6G015) was carried out in three 
European countries, recruiting 168 hospitalised 
patients suffering from post-operative pain 
following knee replacement surgery carried 
out under spinal anaesthesia. The prime objective 
of the study was to compare the analgesic 
efﬁcacy and duration of action of a range 
of doses of M6G compared with placebo. 
M6G015 conﬁrmed that a single dose of M6G 
administered intravenously at 30mg/70kg 
body weight is an effective analgesic agent 
for the treatment of post-operative pain 
following knee replacement surgery. The study 
also showed a clear dose response relationship, 
with a decrease in the amount of morphine 
consumed as the dose of M6G increased. 
The study results also showed that M6G is 
safe and well tolerated.
M6G015 was not designed to produce deﬁnitive 
evidence on the side effect proﬁle of M6G. 
This aspect of the drug’s profile is more 
important to compare against that of morphine, 
which was not a test drug in this study. However, 
the incidence of nausea and vomiting over early 
time periods after M6G was low and similar to 
placebo, indicating that a single dose of M6G 
that can provide pain relief does not appear 
to induce nausea or vomiting. This supports 
observations from earlier studies.
Ongoing Phase III study (M6G022)
This study is designed primarily to provide key 
information on a comparison of effective 
intravenous pain management regimens of M6G 
or morphine treatment for a minimum of 
24 hours (and up to 48 hours) following major 
abdominal surgery. As shown in the schematic 
above, initial pain management will be achieved 
by administration of a loading dose and 
titration of either M6G or morphine to 
achieve acceptably low levels of pain for the 
patient to go onto the ward. In the ward, 
pain management treatment is achieved by 
patient controlled analgesia (PCA), whereby the 
patient is allowed to self administer a dose of 
M6G or morphine as required to control 
their pain. The study is randomised and double 
blind so that neither patient nor carer is aware 
of which treatment is being administered.
The main purpose of the study is to demonstrate 
statistically that:
➡  treatment with either M6G or morphine, 
particularly during PCA, results in similar 
levels of pain management
➡  the effective analgesic treatment during 
PCA will result in lower levels of nausea 
in patients receiving M6G compared to 
those receiving morphine. 
In addition, other efﬁcacy and safety features 
will be determined throughout the study.
This study is ongoing at present in a number 
of countries in Europe and results are 
expected in H2 2006.
Additional Phase I studies (M6G023 and M6G024)
T o provide the relevant Regulatory Authorities 
with additional clinical safety information 
for a Marketing Authorisation Application, 
two further small studies are being planned.
➡  M6G023 is a mass balance study and 
is designed to show the metabolic fate 
of an intravenous injection of M6G. 
T o carry out this study, low doses of 
radio-labelled (14
c
) M6G will be 
administered to six healthy volunteers. 
The disappearance of radio-labelled 
material from the blood and its 
appearance in urine and faeces will 
be determined.
➡  M6G024 is a pharmacokinetic study 
in mild and moderate renally impaired 
patients. M6G is excreted from the body 
by the kidney. Deterioration of kidney 
function, therefore, may cause 
accumulation of M6G in that organ. 
Volunteers with normal, mild or 
moderate renal impairment will receive 
an intravenous injection of M6G and the 
relative plasma and urine levels of M6G 
will be determined and compared 
between these groups.
Ongoing Phase III study (M6G022)
30mg M6G/70Kg + M6G titration
10mg morphine/70Kg + morphine titration
Study summary: 428 patients, in two arms, undergoing surgical procedures such as 
hysterectomy, bowel, gastro-intestinal or urological surgery under general anaesthesia
M6G 2mg/ml
Morphine sulphate  
1mg/ml
Post-op (IV bolus)
Rescue medication/ 
PCA 24 (48) hours 07 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
The markets for M6G
If CeNeS is able to conﬁrm in Phase III clinical 
trials that M6G causes fewer side effects than 
morphine, but has equal analgesic efﬁcacy, 
then it should represent an attractive 
alternative for patients and healthcare 
providers with potentially signiﬁcant 
pharmaco-economic beneﬁts including 
a reduction in the use of anti-emetics, nursing 
time and length of hospital stay. CeNeS has 
commissioned two independent studies 
researching the market for M6G in Europe 
and the US. These studies have conﬁrmed 
CeNeS’ understanding that there is a 
signiﬁcant global market for M6G of around 
£200 million and that the planned price 
premium is likely to be acceptable to 
physicians and pharmacists in hospitals and 
also the various government reimbursement 
authorities. These assumptions are based on 
the successful delivery of M6G’s potential 
clinical and health economic beneﬁts. 
Partnering: regulatory submission and launch
Results from the ongoing pivotal Phase III 
clinical trial M6G022 are expected in the 
second half of 2006. If this trial is successful 
CeNeS plans to subsequently complete 
negotiations for a European partnering deal 
for M6G. The European partner would then 
be expected to complete the registration 
process to enable launch in multiple European 
markets thereafter. 
CeNeS has met with a number of Regulatory 
Agencies in Europe during 2006 to discuss 
the overall clinical development plan for M6G 
in relation to label claims. It is anticipated that 
these discussions will enable CeNeS or its 
Licensee to optimise submissions to the 
European Agencies for a Marketing 
Authorisation Application (“MAA”). It is currently 
anticipated that an MAA submission could be 
made by CeNeS or its licensee during 2007 .
A positive result from M6G 022 will also 
signiﬁcantly increase the value CeNeS will be able 
to obtain from a North American licensing deal. 
A detailed review has been undertaken of the 
likely clinical trials requirements in the US for 
M6G development. CeNeS is scheduled to meet 
with the FDA in mid 2006 to seek consultation 
on a suitable Clinical Development Plan and 
to achieve an Investigational New Drug (IND) 
application in the US later during the year. 
Subject to these discussions with the FDA, it 
is now anticipated that M6G could enter into 
pivotal Phase III studies in the US at an earlier 
date than previously planned. Clarity of the 
US clinical trial requirements is an important 
component of the M6G data package that 
will be considered by potential US partners 
in their evaluation of the M6G opportunity.
Intellectual property
CeNeS has established a signiﬁcant intellectual 
property portfolio comprising patents covering 
novel synthetic routes for the manufacture 
of M6G, as well as key intermediates, salts 
and know-how. The Company has two GMP 
compliant manufacturing contractors in place, 
and the primary manufacturer has produced 
validation batches of M6G at the multi-kilogram 
scale. The synthetic process currently used 
by CeNeS is expected to be the least-cost 
manufacturing route for M6G. In addition, 
CeNeS acquired rights to another proprietary 
synthetic method for the manufacture of M6G 
from Innovata plc in March 2006. This agreement 
further strengthened CeNeS’ intellectual property 
position around M6G. CeNeS also expects to 
beneﬁt from data and marketing exclusivity 
provisions accorded to companies that undertake 
clinical trials, representing a period of ten years 
following ﬁrst approval in Europe, and at least 
ﬁve years following approval in the US.
Additional formulations and markets
If M6G is successful in treating post-operative 
pain using the current intravenous formulation 
there will be potential for use in other pain 
indications such as chronic pain and also by other 
routes of administration such as epidural and 
oral delivery. Such expansion would signiﬁcantly 
increase the potential peak market sales of M6G. 
An oral formulation could potentially be used 
to treat many of the 2.7 million patients who 
develop cancer each year in the US and Europe. 
The market for oral morphine formulations is 
currently estimated at £600 million annually.
COULD BE £200 MILLION 08 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CNS5161 for the treatment of neuropathic pain
CNS5161: A NOVEL NMDA
CNS5161 – FOR THE TREATMENT 
OF NEUROPATHIC PAIN
Neuropathic pain represents a signiﬁcant unmet 
medical need and a large, growing market 
opportunity currently worth over $2 billion 
globally. It arises from a range of primary diseases 
or conditions (including cancer, diabetes, shingles 
and HIV/AIDS) that can result in nerve damage 
and subsequently chronic pain. Neuropathic 
pain is difﬁcult to treat and current analgesics 
do not provide adequate relief for many patients. 
This ‘neuropathic pain’ can be described by 
patients as burning, stinging, shooting, aching 
or electric-shock-like sensations, and it can last 
for many months or years. Common features 
of these abnormal conditions include increased 
temporal summation of pain in response 
to repeated stimulation (“wind-up” pain), 
hyperalgesia (reduced pain threshold and 
exaggerated response to mild noxious stimuli), 
and allodynia (painful response to non-noxious 
stimuli). Drug treatments for neuropathic pain 
represent a signiﬁcant area of unmet medical 
need and a growing market opportunity.
One of the most common forms of neuropathic 
pain is associated with diabetes. It is estimated 
that there are over 13 million patients in the 
US and Europe with diabetes and that over 
30% of these experience neuropathic pain, 
which can last for many years. In addition, herpes 
zoster infections can lead to shingles and up 
to 20% of the one and a half to two million 
patients in the US and Europe with shingles 
experience neuropathic pain, which is often 
resistant to current treatments and can last 
for many months. 
Current drug treatment of neuropathic pain
Some patients with mild to moderate 
neuropathic pain may respond to simple 
analgesics or non-steroidal anti-inﬂammatory 
drugs (“NSAIDs”), but most patients will require 
more specialist drug therapy. Due to the difﬁculty 
in treating neuropathic pain, it can account for 
up to 40% of patients referred to specialist pain 
clinics. The more common treatments 
include tricyclic anti-depressant drugs and 
anti-convulsant drugs, though their side 
effects can be problematic. Additionally, 
many of these drugs are not licensed for 
the treatment of neuropathic pain.
Newer drugs like gabapentin have a more 
favourable side effect proﬁle than some other 
anti-convulsants, but do not work in many 
neuropathic pain patients. Capsaicin cream, 
commercially prepared from dried chilli peppers, 
is also licensed for some types of neuropathic 
pain and may be applied topically. However it 
can cause initial stinging and this deters some 
patients. Local anaesthetic drugs can also be 
used to provide short term soothing relief from 
neuropathic pain. Opioid analgesics are effective 
for some patients, especially when combined 
with other drugs. In extreme cases nerve blocks, 
nerve ablation and spinal analgesia may be 
required to ease this distressing condition. 
There remains a clear need for an effective agent 
with a favourable side effect proﬁle for the 
treatment of neuropathic pain.
Glutamate and neuropathic pain
Glutamate is a major excitatory transmitter in 
the brain, and binds to N-methyl-D-aspartate 
(“NMDA”) receptors on nerves in the spinal cord. 
This mechanism has been implicated in the 
sensitisation of long term pain responses.
Drugs that block the NMDA receptor have 
been shown to be effective in models of 
persistent pain, and some of the older 
non-speciﬁc NMDA antagonists have shown 
promise in the treatment of neuropathic pain. 
However, they are often associated with 
unacceptable side effects.
CNS5161 
CNS5161 is a novel and selective non-competitive 
NMDA receptor antagonist. It acts by binding 
to a site within the ion-channel associated 
with the NMDA receptor, rather than 
competing with glutamate at the agonist 
recognition site.
CNS5161 clinical development 
Following a successful small initial study in 
patients with neuropathic pain (CNS5161 003), 
CeNeS has carried out a further similar ‘proof 
of concept’ study (CNS5161 003A) which 
reported positive results in June 2005. In the 
study, which was designed to establish 
“ NEUROPATHIC PAIN IS ONE OF THE 
MOST COMMON TYPES OF PAIN, 
BUT IS OFTEN UNDER-RECOGNISED 
AND UNDER-TREATED.”  
(Deﬁned Health Insight Brieﬁng – Neuropathic Pain  
March 2006 – Pg 8) 09 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
SUMMARY OF CNS5161 FOR NEUROPATHIC PAIN
➡  NMDA antagonist
➡  Positive results from Phase IIa trials 
announced H1 2005
➡  Further ‘proof of concept’ Phase II 
trials planned in neuropathic and 
other pain conditions
➡  Market size for neuropathic pain 
drugs more than $2 billion
the therapeutic window of CNS5161, the 
product was associated with a clear trend 
to improvement in pain levels and was well 
tolerated with no instances of the 
psychotomimetic side effects associated 
with some NMDA antagonists. This latter 
ﬁnding conﬁrms CeNeS’ understanding that 
CNS5161 occupies a unique position in its class.
Completed Phase II study (CNS5161 003A)
The Phase IIa study CNS5161 003A was a 
48-patient, European, multi-centre, double blind, 
cross-over design with escalating doses of 
CNS5161 (0.125, 0.25, 0.5 & 0.75mg) being 
compared with placebo in patients with long 
standing neuropathic pain conditions (e.g. 
arising from diabetic neuropathy, post-herpetic 
pain, post-traumatic nerve injury, complex 
regional pain syndrome I or II).
Initially twelve patients came into investigator 
sites and received an intravenous infusion over 
six hours of either CNS5161 0.125mg or placebo. 
Pain levels and side effects were monitored 
over a 24 hour period. After a period of two 
weeks, patients returned and received the 
alternate medication to that received previously 
(CNS5161 0.125mg or placebo). After a safety 
review, a further group of twelve patients 
entered into the study and received a higher 
dose of CNS5161 (0.25mg) or placebo in a 
similar cross over manner. This process continued 
until a dose of CNS5161 0.75 mg was reached.
Infusion of CNS5161 (0.25 – 0.75mg) appeared 
to be associated with a rise in blood pressure 
in a dose related manner. Due to a rising 
incidence of hypertension, recruitment to the 
study was terminated after two patients had 
been treated with CNS5161 0.75mg. As is 
common in these types of studies, after placebo 
infusion patients showed a general improvement 
of their painful condition over twelve hours. 
However, following CNS5161 0.5mg there was 
a marked further reduction in pain levels after 
CNS5161 0.5mg compared to placebo. The 
improvement of pain levels was found to be 
greater in patients with diabetic neuropathy 
compared with other neuropathies.
CNS5161 was well tolerated and was not 
associated with psychotomimetic effects.
CeNeS plans to pursue two development routes 
for CNS5161 in parallel; an intravenous/
subcutaneous infusion presentation for the 
treatment of refractory pain in patients with 
cancer or AIDS, and an adhesive patch 
presentation that can be applied to the skin 
and so provide pain relief over a number of 
days. Initial studies have conﬁrmed the feasibility 
of administering CNS5161 by the patch route. 
The Company has also contracted the 
manufacture of supplies of CNS5161 material 
sufﬁcient for the next set of clinical trials. It is 
not currently planned to commence the next 
Phase II trials with CNS5161 until the results 
of the ongoing pivotal Phase III study of M6G 
have been announced.
The markets for CNS5161
CNS5161 is being developed for a poorly treated 
population of around eight million patients 
suffering from neuropathic pain in the major 
pharmaceutical markets. The neuropathic pain 
market is currently estimated to exceed $2 billion 
worldwide, but existing drugs are believed to 
work in only about 30% of patients with 
neuropathic pain. The total available market 
should therefore be signiﬁcantly larger. If CeNeS 
is able to conﬁrm the efﬁcacy of CNS5161 in 
the treatment of neuropathic pain and is able 
to establish that it is well tolerated by patients 
this could prove to be a valuable 
commercial opportunity.
Although neuropathic pain is the lead 
therapeutic indication for CNS5161, clinical 
observations and pre-clinical ﬁndings with 
NMDA antagonists suggest that this drug 
candidate has the potential to prevent or 
treat a wide range of neurological disorders 
that involve neuronal degeneration, altered 
neuronal activity or neuro-inﬂammation. 
These diseases include Parkinson’s disease, 
Huntington’s disease, epilepsy, addiction, 
multiple sclerosis, AIDS, dementia and the 
neurological complications of certain central 
nervous system injuries and infections.
RECEPTOR ANTAGONIST CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CNS7056X – SHORT ACTING SEDATIVE
Sedation is required for a wide range of 
surgical and non-surgical procedures. The high 
cost of overnight hospital stays means that 
there is a trend towards day case procedures. 
This creates a requirement for intravenous 
sedative agents that permit a rapid and 
predictable recovery. CNS7056X has the 
potential to ﬁt this proﬁle. CNS7056X works 
via a clinically validated mechanism as an 
agonist at the benzodiazepine site of the 
GABA
A
 receptor. Agents with a similar 
mechanism of action have been used for 
many years as sedatives (e.g. midazolam) but 
suffer from relatively long and variable 
durations of action, primarily due to active 
metabolites. CNS7056X was developed by 
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) to have equivalent 
sedative effects to agents such as midazolam 
but, uniquely, the compound is designed to 
be rapidly broken down in the body to an 
inactive metabolite and consequently to have 
a very short duration of action (see table above). 
CNS7056X is the lead compound of a series that 
was assigned to CeNeS from GSK in November 
2003. The compound ﬁts very well with the 
CeNeS focus on precedented mechanisms and 
builds on the expertise built in the peri-operative 
area with the development of M6G. 
The design of CNS7056X leveraged the 
experience gained at GSK with the short 
acting opiate, remifentanil. CNS7056X is an 
ester-based drug that is rapidly hydrolysed in 
the body by esterases to an inactive 
metabolite. An attractive potential advantage 
offered by this mechanism of deactivation 
is a predictable onset and offset proﬁle, in 
contrast to midazolam. Pre-clinical studies 
reveal that this compound has a signiﬁcantly 
shorter duration of action than midazolam 
(see table above). The lack of reliance on a 
cytochrome P450 for metabolism means 
less scope for drug to drug interactions 
compared to midazolam and should permit 
its use in patients with reduced liver 
function. This is frequently important in 
the intensive care setting.
Sedation for non-surgical and surgical procedures
Sedation is important in a number of settings, 
both non-surgical and surgical. Non-surgical 
procedures where sedation is required include 
endoscopies, bronchoscopies, manipulations 
(such as the re-setting of dislocated limbs) and 
wound dressing. Surgical procedures include 
those performed under local and general 
anaesthesia. Long term treatment with 
sedatives is also employed in the intensive 
care unit. Agents acting as agonists at the 
benzodiazepine site of the GABA
A
 receptor 
such as lorazepam, diazepam and especially 
midazolam are the most commonly used 
sedative agents.
Current short acting sedative agents
As the ﬁrst water-soluble benzodiazepine, 
midazolam was seen as a major breakthrough 
when introduced to the market in the early 
1980s. As with other benzodiazepines  
and unlike anaesthetics such as propofol, 
midazolam induces a controlled sedation and 
has amnesic properties. However, midazolam 
has a number of notable drawbacks. These 
include respiratory depression and a 
prolonged and variable duration of action. 
The latter is due to the existence of an active 
metabolite. Prolonged sedation can result  
in extended hospital conﬁnement with 
attendant increase in costs. Another drawback 
of midazolam is that it is mainly metabolised 
in the liver by a major drug-metabolising 
enzyme (cytochrome P450 3A4). This means 
that drug-drug interactions can be problematic 
as is its administration to patients with 
compromised liver function. 
Anaesthesia as an additional indication
On the basis of new and very encouraging 
pre-clinical data, revealing a rapid onset and 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
CNS7056X short acting sedative
10
4.50
47 .50
4.00
4.60
Time (min) to onset and offset of sleep: Midazolam and CNS7056X
Midazolam – onset
Midazolam – offset
CNS7056X – onset
CNS7056X – offset
CNS7056X pre-clinical data indicates a short acting proﬁle
CNS7056X: A NOVEL SHORT 11 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
offset of sedative action and rapid metabolism 
by human liver samples, CeNeS is now evaluating 
the potential of CNS7056X for the additional 
indications of the induction and maintenance 
of anaesthesia. Pre-clinical studies to evaluate 
the potential of CNS7056X in these additional 
indications are being undertaken at the 
University of Strasbourg, the University of 
Adelaide and at a major pharmaceutical 
company. The evaluation will complete in the 
second half of 2006. Propofol is used widely 
for the induction and maintenance of 
anaesthesia. Whilst propofol is an extremely 
successful intravenous anaesthetic, its 
limitations include pain on injection and 
cardiovascular depression (lowering of heart 
rate and blood pressure). The pre-clinical 
proﬁle of CNS7056X suggests that it may 
overcome some of these limitations, and could 
offer a new paradigm for intravenous anaesthesia.
A leading anaesthetist, Professor Pierre 
Diemunsch (Strasbourg, France) who has 
conducted pre-clinical studies on CNS7056X, 
commented “CNS7056X is a very interesting 
molecule with the desirable pre-clinical proﬁle 
of a rapid onset and offset of sedative action 
and minimal cardiovascular depression. The 
control that this proﬁle provides means that 
CNS7056X has great potential for use not 
only as a short acting sedative but also as an 
agent for the induction and maintenance 
of anaesthesia using the established regime 
of intravenous infusion in combination with  
an opiate”.
CNS7056X development status
The intellectual property position around 
CNS7056X was recently strengthened when 
the European Patent Ofﬁce granted the patent 
for a series of sedative compounds, including 
CNS7056X. CNS7056X is progressing through 
pre-clinical development. CeNeS is undertaking 
the pre-clinical development work with the 
intention of ﬁling an IND in the US in 2006. 
CeNeS is planning to conduct the ﬁrst proof 
of concept Phase I study under a US IND 
because the Company has identiﬁed the US 
as a major potential market for short acting 
sedatives. Unlike many CNS indications, it is 
planned that the clinical proof of concept for 
this compound will be evaluated in the Phase I 
trials, where the onset and offset of sedation 
for CNS7056X will be examined and compared 
with that of midazolam. Sedative effects can 
readily be monitored in volunteers by 
measuring parameters such as reduction of 
awareness and movement or changes in the 
electrical activity of the brain. 
The markets for CNS7056X
A large and growing number of surgical 
and non-surgical procedures are conducted in 
hospitals and surgeries worldwide. Many of these 
procedures are conducted under sedation 
rather than general anaesthesia. The worldwide 
sedative/hypnotic market for anaesthesia 
is greater than $1 billion and the US holds 
a 60% share of the value. Midazolam sales reveal 
that this agent is used in a large proportion of 
procedures. Midazolam became generic in mid 
2000 (US). Prior to becoming generic, sales in 
1999 were $450 million. The additional use of 
CNS 7056X as an agent for the induction and 
maintenance of anaesthesia could double the 
potential market opportunity. Propofol is used 
widely for the induction and maintenance of 
anaesthesia in the US, Europe and Japan, and 
its sales during 2004 exceeded US $750 million 
(source: IMS Health). 
ACTING SEDATIVE
➡  GABA
A
 agonist
➡  Acquired from GSK in November 2003
➡  Pre-clinical development progressing well
➡  New indication of anaesthesia being pursued
➡  Market size for i.v. sedatives/hypnotics 
more than $1 billion
SUMMARY OF CNS7056X FOR SEDATION 12 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CATECHOL-O-METHYLTRANSFERASE (COMT) 
INHIBITORS FOR PARKINSON’S DISEASE
Parkinson’s disease
Parkinson’s disease is the second most 
common neurodegenerative disease after 
Alzheimer’s. It affects approximately 2%  
of the population over the age of 65.  
The symptoms of Parkinson’s disease such as 
tremor, rigidity and slowness of movement 
result from the loss of neurones containing 
the neurotransmitter dopamine in parts of the 
brain responsible for controlling movement. 
Many early stage research efforts are focusing 
on novel therapies for the treatment of 
Parkinson’s disease such as stem cells or gene 
therapy. In line with our stated lower risk 
approach, CeNeS has examined the continuing 
use of L-DOPA as the main treatment of 
Parkinson’s disease and selected a discovery 
opportunity that could signiﬁcantly enhance 
its effectiveness.
Working from our leading edge 
understanding of the treatment of 
Parkinson’s disease CeNeS has identiﬁed 
novel series of COMT inhibitors which, 
unlike existing agents, do not belong to 
the problematic nitrocatechol chemical  
class. Hence our novel compounds have 
the potential to provide a significantly 
superior proﬁle compared with current 
agents. This programme is now in the 
lead optimisation phase.
Replacement therapy with L-DOPA remains the 
‘gold standard’ therapy for Parkinson’s disease
Replacement therapy using the precursor 
of dopamine, L-DOPA combined with a 
DDC (dopa-decarboxylase) inhibitor 
(carbidopa or benserazide) is the mainstay 
of therapy in Parkinson’s disease. After 
prolonged use, the beneﬁcial effects of 
L-DOPA become reduced (with larger 
doses required) and patients develop motor 
ﬂuctuations and uncontrolled movements 
(dyskinesias). These represent the biggest 
single problem in the long term management 
of a patient with Parkinson’s disease.
COMT inhibitors are used to ‘smooth’  
the pharmacokinetics of L-DOPA 
Catechol-O-Methyltransferase (COMT) is an 
enzyme that metabolises catecholamines  
such as L-DOPA and dopamine and causes a 
signiﬁcant depletion of L-DOPA in the brain 
and periphery, limiting its efﬁcacy. COMT 
inhibitors essentially smooth out the 
pharmacokinetics of L-DOPA, giving patients  
a longer ‘on’ or functional time each day.  
They also have a sparing effect on the dose 
of L-DOPA required and thus may delay  
the development of motor ﬂuctuations  
and dyskinesias.
Current COMT inhibitors
In the mid to late 1990s two COMT inhibitors 
were introduced to the market, tolcapone 
and entacapone. These COMT inhibitors 
were shown to reduce fluctuations and 
dyskinesias in patients receiving L-DOPA. 
Tolcapone was withdrawn from the EU 
market in late 1998 due to liver toxicity, 
which is unrelated to COMT inhibition. 
T olcapone has recently been re-introduced 
to the market in Europe but, as in the US, 
its use is severely restricted and frequent liver 
monitoring required of patients using it. 
As such, entacapone (co-marketed by Orion 
and Novartis) is the only unrestricted COMT 
inhibitor available in the major markets. 
However, entacapone has a number of 
drawbacks, namely a short half-life, low oral 
bioavailability and minimal brain penetration. 
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW
COMT inhibitors for Parkinson’s disease
COMT INHIBITORS: A CHEMICAL
Source: Evaluate 2005
$107m
$167m
$269m
$367m
Worldwide sales of COMT inhibitors, 2002–2005
2005
2004
2003
2002 13 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
COMT inhibitor discovery programme
T olcapone and entacapone, in common with 
the majority of known potent COMT inhibitors, 
contain the undesirable 3-nitrocatechol unit that 
is associated with poor oral absorption, short 
plasma half-life and extensive metabolism 
issues. The primary goal of breaking away 
from this nitrocatechol series has been 
achieved by CeNeS scientists, and a number 
of discrete chemical series without the 
nitrocatechol group have been identified. 
The COMT inhibitor programme was carefully 
chosen by CeNeS in line with our strategy 
to have a low risk proﬁle and to address a 
clear commercial opportunity. A number 
of compounds are now being evaluated in 
the lead optimisation process. It is anticipated 
that a development candidate will be 
identiﬁed during 2006.
The potential use of COMT inhibitors  
in schizophrenia
In addition to Parkinson’s disease, a number  
of new academic publications point to the 
potential use of a COMT inhibitor that acts in 
the brain to improve the profound cognitive 
deﬁcits of schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a 
debilitating mental illness characterised 
by disturbances such as hallucinations and 
delusions as well as a range of negative 
symptoms, including cognitive disturbances. 
Cognitive disturbances often prevent 
schizophrenia patients from re-adjusting 
to society and require patients to be under 
medical care for their entire lives. Despite the 
availability of a variety of current anti-psychotic 
drugs, cognitive disturbances are poorly 
addressed by existing therapies. 
In a recent review of the area, the  
world-renowned psychiatrist, Professor  
Daniel Weinberger (NIMH, Bethesda, US) 
made the following concluding comment:  
“On theoretical and practical grounds, COMT 
is a prime candidate for ameliorating the 
cognitive deficits of patients with 
schizophrenia, and empirical data to 
support this are beginning to emerge.” 
Tunbridge EM, Harrison PJ, Weinberger DR. 
Catechol-O-Methyltransferase, Cognition, 
and Psychosis: Val (158) Met and Beyond. 
Biol Psychiatry. 2006 (in press).
The market for COMT inhibitors
The global market of drugs for Parkinson’s 
disease was $1.7 billion in 2003 and is predicted 
to grow to $3 billion by 2012. The growth will 
arise largely due to the increased prevalence 
of the disease, as a result of the ageing 
population. The use of COMT inhibitors is 
currently growing rapidly (see table on page 12). 
COMT inhibitors currently have a 20% share 
of the Parkinson’s disease market. 
The worldwide sales of drugs used to treat 
schizophrenia is $12 billion. Cognitive 
disturbances are poorly addressed by existing 
therapies and represent a large unmet medical 
need in schizophrenia therapy. CeNeS novel 
COMT inhibitors have the potential to address 
this signiﬁcant unmet need. 
NEIL CLARK
Chief Executive
➡  Chemical breakthrough achieved by CeNeS
➡  A number of compounds are being 
evaluated in the lead optimisation process
➡  COMT inhibitor market growing rapidly
➡  Potential for use to treat cognitive 
impairment in schizophrenia
SUMMARY OF COMT INHIBITORS 
FOR PARKINSON’S DISEASE
BREAKTHROUGH
