 02 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
BUSINESS REVIEW
I am pleased to report on another year of 
excellent progress for CeNeS. The progress 
made has confirmed my view that the 
Company’s focused development and 
discovery pipeline has the potential to deliver 
much needed new drugs to the commercially 
attractive Central Nervous System (“CNS”) 
market. Over the next two years our four 
main programmes are planned to reach 
signiﬁcant clinical or pre-clinical milestones 
and the progression made to date in all four 
of our programmes is reﬂected by the 
signiﬁcant interest potential partners are 
expressing in them.
Our lead programme for the treatment 
of post-operative pain is M6G. This compound 
entered a pivotal Phase III clinical trial in 
Europe in the second half of 2005. Recruitment 
is underway and results from this study are 
due in the second half of 2006. If this trial  
is successful, CeNeS plans to complete 
negotiations for a European partnering  
deal. Our European partner would then be 
expected to complete the registration process 
to enable a European launch thereafter.  
A positive Phase III result from this trial will 
also signiﬁcantly increase the value CeNeS 
will be able to obtain from a North American 
licensing deal. 
Independent marketing studies have conﬁrmed 
that the potential peak market sales for M6G 
in post-operative pain could be approximately 
£200 million in the main European territories 
and the US. If M6G is successful in treating 
post-operative pain using the current i.v. 
formulation there is potential for further use 
in other pain indications such as chronic pain 
and also for the epidural delivery of M6G. 
Such expansion would signiﬁcantly increase 
the potential peak market sales of M6G.
In June 2005 successful results were announced 
from a Phase IIa study of CNS5161, a potent 
and selective NMDA antagonist, in neuropathic 
pain. In the study, which was designed to 
establish the therapeutic window of CNS5161, 
the product was associated with a clear trend 
to improvement in pain levels and was 
well tolerated with no instances of the 
psychotomimetic side effects associated with 
some NMDA antagonists. This latter ﬁnding 
conﬁrms CeNeS’ understanding that CNS5161 
occupies a unique position in its class.
To plan the next stage of CNS5161’s 
development, CeNeS has entered into a 
collaboration with Ergomed Clinical Research 
Limited to ﬁnalise the design and planning of 
Phase II trials of this novel compound. The 
trials will be designed to test the compound’s 
potential as a new treatment for diabetic 
and post-trauma neuropathic pain, 
opioid-refractory cancer pain and 
post-operative pain. 
In January 2005 our clinical development  
team successfully applied for and gained  
a Manufacturing Authorisation for 
Investigational Medicinal Products from  
the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products 
Regulatory Agency. CeNeS is now authorised 
to manufacture and release clinical trial 
products for use in the studies that it is 
conducting, in compliance with European 
directive 2001/20/EC. This EU legislation, 
also known as the Clinical Trials Directive, 
came into force in 2004 and governs 
the conduct of clinical trials across 
Europe. This is an important step in the 
development of CeNeS and demonstrates 
its commitment to the highest standards 
of Good Manufacturing Practice and 
Good Clinical Practice.
Additionally, CeNeS continues to make 
good progress in the development of its 
earlier stage programmes in sedation and 
Parkinson’s disease and is greatly encouraged 
by corroborating external evidence that 
supports the potential to expand these 
programmes into signiﬁcant new markets. 
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
A REDUCED RISK APPROACH
“ OVER THE NEXT TWO YEARS OUR FOUR 
MAIN PROGRAMMES ARE PLANNED 
TO REACH SIGNIFICANT CLINICAL OR 
PRE-CLINICAL MILESTONES.”  03 CeNeS Pharmaceuticals plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
CNS7056X, a short acting sedative, is the lead 
compound of a series that was assigned to 
CeNeS from GlaxoSmithKline (“GSK”) in 
November 2003. The pre-clinical development 
work is ongoing with the intention of ﬁling an 
IND in the US in 2006. CeNeS is planning to 
conduct the ﬁrst proof of concept Phase I study 
under a US IND. The US is a major potential 
market for short acting sedatives. The intellectual 
property position around CNS7056X was 
recently strengthened when the European 
Patent Ofﬁce granted the patent for a series 
of sedative compounds, including CNS7056X.
On the basis of very encouraging pre-clinical 
data, revealing a rapid onset and offset of 
sedative action and rapid metabolism by 
human liver samples, CeNeS is now evaluating 
the potential of CNS7056X for the additional 
indications of the induction and maintenance 
of anaesthesia. This could double the potential 
market opportunity to over £400 million. 
The pre-clinical proﬁle of CNS7056X suggests 
that it may overcome some of these 
limitations, and could offer a new paradigm 
for intravenous anaesthesia.
Parkinson’s disease is the second most 
common neurodegenerative disease after 
Alzheimer’s disease. CeNeS has identiﬁed a 
novel series of COMT inhibitors using our 
leading edge understanding of the chemistry 
of Parkinson’s disease. Their design proﬁle 
includes the ability to act both centrally and 
peripherally as COMT inhibitors. This is an 
important feature as the current leading 
COMT inhibitor drug, a nitrocatechol, does 
not act centrally. A number of compounds are 
now being evaluated in the lead optimisation 
process with the target of identifying a 
pre-clinical development candidate in 2006.
In addition to Parkinson’s disease, a number 
of new academic publications point to the 
potential use of a COMT inhibitor that acts 
in the brain to improve the profound 
cognitive deﬁcits of schizophrenia. CeNeS 
novel COMT inhibitors have the potential 
to address this unmet need and to potentially 
enter a multi billion dollar market.
STRATEGY
CeNeS has an experienced management team 
that continues to deliver on its stated goals 
and has a clear vision and strategy for the 
future. The Company has a strong discovery 
and development pipeline with the capacity 
to deliver signiﬁcant shareholder value. 
The CNS market is one of the largest  
and fastest growing segments of the 
pharmaceutical market. By focusing on  
CNS opportunities with well understood 
mechanisms of action, CeNeS is well 
positioned to deliver new products to 
neurologists, anaesthetists and pain specialists 
in order to improve the treatment of patients 
and to deliver signiﬁcant returns to our 
investors. We shall continue to evaluate  
other opportunities which we believe will 
complement this strategy and further 
enhance shareholder value.
In the short term the successful development 
of M6G will enable us to drive the growth of 
the Company with the goal of becoming a 
focused specialty pharmaceutical business.
The Board and management of CeNeS are 
committed to the development of the 
Company and are excited about the prospects 
for further signiﬁcant success. Our ﬂexible 
business model means we are well placed to 
take advantage of opportunities arising that 
will enhance shareholder value.
ALAN GOODMAN
Chairman
SUMMARY OF THE CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
➡  Key programmes poised to deliver proof 
of concept data
➡  Pivotal Phase III clinical trial for M6G underway
➡  Successful results from CNS5161 
Phase IIa study
➡  Flexible business model
TO CNS DRUG DEVELOPMENT
