  
STRATEGY
After a year of signiﬁcant progress, CeNeS has 
a strong development pipeline with the capacity 
to deliver signiﬁcant shareholder value. 
The Central Nervous System (“CNS”) market 
is one of the largest and fastest growing 
segments of the pharmaceutical market. 
By focusing on CNS opportunities with well 
understood mechanisms of action, CeNeS 
is well positioned to deliver new products to 
neurologists, anaesthetists and pain specialists 
in order to improve the treatment of patients 
and to deliver signiﬁcant returns to its investors.
In the short term, the successful development 
of our lead programme M6G will drive the growth 
of the Company towards the goal of becoming 
a focused specialty pharmaceutical business.
The Board and management of CeNeS 
are committed to the development of the 
Company and are excited about the prospects 
for further signiﬁcant success. CeNeS ﬂexible 
business model means it is well placed to take 
advantage of opportunities that will enhance 
shareholder value.
M6G – LEAD CANDIDATE FOR 
POST-OPERATIVE PAIN
The M6G clinical development programme 
has been signiﬁcantly strengthened by recent 
Phase III clinical trial data which was a major 
step forward and supported the suggested 
product proﬁle. 
The completion of the M6G Phase III study 
with over 500 patients from 24 centres in six 
countries represents a major achievement for 
CeNeS and proves the ability of our clinical 
development and pharmaceutical teams to 
deliver to the exacting standards required 
under the EU Clinical Trials Directive. Their 
expertise means we are well placed to add 
further value by the continued development 
of our earlier stage programmes.
Although the recent Phase III trial just missed 
its second primary endpoint (p=0.052 versus 
the target of p<0.05), the overall reduction in 
PONV (post-operative nausea and vomiting) 
by over 25% gives clear, clinically relevant 
support for the product proﬁle of equal analgesia 
to morphine but with a signiﬁcant reduction in 
side effects. Further still, secondary data shows 
that M6G has other possible beneﬁts including 
reduced sedation, less use of anti-emetic drugs 
and a long duration of action (see ﬁgure 3). 
Independent marketing studies have conﬁrmed 
the potential peak market sales for M6G in 
post-operative pain of up to £200 million in the 
main European territories and the US. If M6G 
is successful in treating post-operative pain 
using the current intravenous (IV) formulation, 
there is potential for further use in other pain 
indications such as chronic pain and in the 
epidural delivery of M6G for analgesia during 
surgery. Such expansion would signiﬁcantly 
increase the potential peak market sales 
of M6G.
Multi-kilogram batches of M6G have been 
manufactured and the process is now validated. 
There are two years’ stability data on these 
batches to support drug registration. In addition, 
a US Drug Master File was opened in 2007. 
CeNeS has undertaken a successful scale-up 
of sterile product manufacture into a commercial 
plant. 15 batches of five different M6G IV 
products have now been manufactured 
at commercial scale.
04
CENES PHARMACEUTICALS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
SUMMARY OF CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT 
 Strong and well balanced development pipeline.
 M6G product proﬁle validated in Phase III studies.
 Co-development partnership with ERGOMED to progress CNS 5161.
 Flexible business model.
_02_CEN_ar06_front.indd   4 29/06/2007   10:17:27 05
CENES PHARMACEUTICALS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
 
The IP position has been strengthened 
by the acquisition of certain patent rights 
covering a proprietary synthetic method for 
the manufacture of M6G and also by the 
grant of a new composition of matter patent 
on a novel salt form of M6G by the European 
Patent Ofﬁce.
The preparation and filing of the IND adds 
to the package of data available for potential 
US partners to review and is a major event 
for CeNeS and the M6G clinical programme.
CeNeS is now actively pursuing its stated 
strategy of securing partners for M6G in the 
major territories. The quality and robustness 
of the clinical data produced by the current 
study signiﬁcantly reduces the risk for the 
development of M6G by enabling optimal trial 
design and the selection of endpoints in the 
remaining Phase III studies. The partner(s) 
will be expected to ﬁnalise the data package 
required for regulatory ﬁlings. It is still possible 
that the current package could be filed in 
Europe although CeNeS expects that a partner 
will look to further increase the data package 
by referring to the planned US Phase III studies. 
We remain conﬁdent that M6G is very well 
positioned to compete with standard 
morphine and morphine-like products in 
the post-operative setting.
CNS 5161
CeNeS second clinical candidate is CNS 5161. 
This compound has demonstrated efﬁcacy 
and an acceptable side effect proﬁle in two 
Phase IIa proof of concept studies in neuropathic 
pain patients. This encouraging clinical data 
was presented in September 2006 at the 
European Association for the Study of 
Diabetes (“EASD”) conference. 
In July 2006 CeNeS entered into a 
co-development partnership with ERGOMED, 
an experienced clinical development company 
specialising in neurology and oncology clinical 
trial design and management. Phase II studies 
are planned for 2007 and Phase II clinical supply 
manufacturing was completed in early 2007.
Initially, CeNeS plans to complete a trial in 
opioid refractory cancer pain. The study will 
be a Phase I/II dose-escalation study in up to 
36 patients to establish the optimal schedule 
for infusion of CNS 5161 in the management 
of cancer pain. 
Following this, CeNeS and ERGOMED plan 
to conduct Phase II studies in neuropathic 
pain. The respective teams are working with 
specialists in neuropathic pain to design the 
most effective Phase II study and to select 
the appropriate patient population to ensure 
efﬁcient completion of this study. In addition 
to diabetic neuropathic pain patients the 
collaboration is looking at the treatment of 
post-traumatic neuropathic pain patients as a 
possible alternative target population. Phase II 
trials in neuropathic pain will commence later 
in 2007 once the study design is ﬁnalised. 
Drug treatments for neuropathic pain represent 
a signiﬁcant area of unmet medical need and 
a growing market opportunity that is currently 
valued at over $2 billion globally and is forecast 
to reach $5 billion by 2010.
ADVANTAGES OF M6G COMPARED TO MORPHINE
   MORPHINE M6G SOURCE
 Efﬁcacy   
 Post-operative analgesia (IV+ PCA)   Phase III data
 Longer duration of action/cleaner metabolism —  Phase III/I data
 Side effects   
 Less nausea —  Phase III data
 Less vomiting —  Phase III data
 Less need for anti-emetic drugs —  Phase III data
 Less severe sedation —  Phase III data
 Less respiratory depression —  Phase I data
Figure 3
_02_CEN_ar06_front.indd   5 29/06/2007   10:17:27 CNS 5161 CONTINUED
During 2006, CeNeS also completed the 
assignment of transdermal patch technology 
from Alza Corporation, enabling the development 
of a high value transdermal formulation for 
neuropathic pain. CeNeS has already produced 
preliminary data demonstrating feasibility for 
a transdermal patch and the assignment will 
enable formulation development to be carried 
out in parallel to the Phase II studies. CeNeS 
already possesses composition of matter per se 
patents on CNS 5161 and patent protection 
may be extended to 2020 through the 
acquisition of this IP .
CNS 7056 – SHORT ACTING SEDATIVE
CNS 7056 is the lead compound of a series that 
was assigned to CeNeS from GlaxoSmithKline 
in November 2003. Pre-clinical development 
work is ongoing with the intention of ﬁling an 
IND in the US and then conducting a ﬁrst proof 
of concept Phase I study. The US is a major 
potential market for short acting sedatives. 
Recent data highlighted the encouraging 
pre-clinical proﬁle of CNS 7056, 
including a rapid onset and offset of sedative 
action and rapid metabolism by human liver 
samples. The compound is being developed 
primarily as a sedative for short non-surgical 
and surgical procedures. In addition, on the 
basis of these new data, CeNeS is now 
evaluating the potential of CNS 7056 for use in 
the induction and maintenance of anaesthesia. 
Pre-clinical studies to evaluate the potential of 
CNS 7056 in these additional indications are 
being undertaken at the University of Adelaide 
and under a Material Transfer Agreement at an 
international pharmaceutical company. 
Extending the development of CNS 7056 to 
include the induction and maintenance of 
anaesthesia could double the estimated 
potential market opportunity to over £400 
million. The ﬁrst detailed academic paper on 
the sedative, entitled “CNS 7056: A Novel 
ultra-Short Acting Benzodiazepine”, has 
been accepted for publication in the leading 
journal, “Anesthesiology”.
COMT INHIBITOR – PARKINSON’S DISEASE
CeNeS COMT inhibitor discovery programme 
has succeeded in identifying several series of 
novel active compounds, achieving a chemical 
breakaway from currently marketed COMT 
inhibitors. CeNeS is developing these lead 
series with a view to further optimising in vitro 
and in vivo activity as well as their ADMET 
(Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion 
and Toxicity) proﬁle, thus addressing the 
known limitations associated with existing 
marketed therapies. The programme has 
continued to progress well and several lead 
candidates are currently being optimised.
CORPORATE
The Company is pleased to have appointed 
Professor Robert Sneyd (Associate Dean and 
Professor of Anaesthesia, Peninsula Medical 
School, University of Plymouth, UK) and 
Professor Peter Glass (Professor and Chairman, 
Department of Anesthesiology, Stony Brook 
University Hospital, US) to the SAB. With their 
recognised expertise in anaesthesia and pain, 
they will aid the existing SAB members 
in providing excellent support to our drug 
development programmes.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
“ CENES IS NOW WELL PLACED TO DELIVER FURTHER VALUE 
TO SHAREHOLDERS BY THE COMMERCIALISATION OF 
ITS LEAD ASSET (M6G).”
06
CENES PHARMACEUTICALS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
_02_CEN_ar06_front.indd   6 29/06/2007   10:17:27 07
CENES PHARMACEUTICALS PLC 
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2006
UPDATE ON PORTFOLIO OF 
CARRIED INTERESTS
CeNeS has a portfolio of carried interests 
arising from non-core assets which were 
disposed of during the 2001 restructuring 
programme. In 2006, Addex Pharmaceuticals 
Limited (“Addex”) completed a venture capital 
funding, raising €25 million and also announced 
that its programme ADX10061, a dopamine 
D1-selective antagonist, is expected to commence 
a Phase II smoking cessation study in the US. 
CeNeS licensed out this dopamine D1-selective 
antagonist to Addex in 2002 and CeNeS 
could potentially receive up to $4.5 million 
in milestones and royalties in stages over the 
next few years if the programme progresses 
successfully through clinical development.
In the longer term, the Board believes this 
portfolio could generate up to $20 million plus 
royalty streams if various milestones and targets 
are achieved under the agreed contracts.
OUTLOOK
Following the successful completion of 
the recent M6G Phase III study CeNeS is 
actively pursuing partnering discussions 
with interested parties. The upfront milestones 
generated from a partnering deal are expected 
to be sufﬁcient to fund operations through 
2008 and beyond. CeNeS is conﬁdent 
that the positive clinical data will enable a 
partnering deal and/or ﬁnancing to be secured 
in the second half of 2007 to enable the 
Company to remain as a going concern.
CeNeS prospects are greatly enhanced by the 
validation of the M6G product proﬁle. CeNeS 
is now well placed to deliver further value to 
shareholders by the commercialisation of its 
lead asset. The strength of the clinical data 
package and the quality of CeNeS earlier 
stage pipeline also means that CeNeS is well 
placed to consider other strategic opportunities 
if and when they arise.
ALAN GOODMAN
CHAIRMAN
27 JUNE 2007
“ M6G IS ONE OF THE MOST COMPELLING LICENSING 
OPPORTUNITIES TARGETING THE TREATMENT OF 
POST-OPERATIVE PAIN THAT WE HAVE SEEN IN A 
WHILE. WHAT MAKES M6G STAND OUT CLINICALLY 
IS THAT IT DELIVERS THE PAIN RELIEF OF MORPHINE 
WHILE REDUCING THE LIMITATIONS OF NAUSEA 
AND RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS – REDUCING THESE 
PROBLEMS WILL BE BENEFICIAL TO PATIENTS, CARE 
PROVIDERS AND REDUCE THE COST OF RELATED 
CARE. ALL OF THIS SHOULD TRANSLATE INTO A 
COMMERCIALLY VALUABLE DRUG.” 
RODMAN & RENSHAW
_02_CEN_ar06_front.indd   7 29/06/2007   10:17:28
