 14 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2
Dear Shareholders
2012 represented the third full year of production 
at Sukari, a period in which your company further 
extended its track record of successive annual 
production growth. The operation delivered a record 
262,828 ounces of gold at a cash cost of production 
of US$669 per ounce, which was ahead of guidance 
of 250,000 ounces at US$700 per ounce (with fuel at 
international prices) set out at the beginning of the year. 
The operating team in Egypt deserve immense credit 
for this performance in a year where challenges were 
again presented and overcome. The ability to perform 
well in all circumstances is key to a successful operation, 
particularly one that is growing as rapidly as Sukari, 
and shareholders should take comfort from the team’s 
demonstrated ability to deliver growth, whilst maintaining 
a strong emphasis on rigorous cost control. 
Sukari’s safety performance was also a signiﬁcant 
improvement on the previous year with a lost time injury 
frequency rate of 0.69 per 200,000 man-hours achieved 
during the period. It was again pleasing to note that no 
signiﬁcant environmental incidents have taken place.
The Stage 4 expansion to double the processing plant’s 
nameplate capacity to 10 million tonnes per annum is 
the key to the next stage of output growth and delivery 
of our stated long-term production target for Sukari of 
450-500,000 ounces per annum from 2015 onwards. 
The construction team made great inroads through 2012 
on what is a major construction effort, which continued 
to be funded out of the proceeds of production at Sukari. 
Although construction was steady during the ﬁrst half 
of the year, the second half saw an impact from strikes, 
both at Sukari and within the local supply chain, and also 
disruptions to gold exports and hence our in-country 
working capital position. This translated to delivery delays 
for key items, materials and services, with the effect that 
the bulk of commissioning will commence in the second 
half of 2013 and be complete before year end. The capital 
cost estimate of the Stage 4 expansion which is funded by 
PGM out of cost recoveries, is US$325 million including 
contingency, with expenditure at the end of 2012 of 
US$228.5 million.
Chairman’s Statement
2012 represented the third full year of production at 
Sukari, a period in which your company further 
extended its track record of successive 
annual production growth.  15
Production growth 
was complemented by 
continued drilling of Sukari 
Hill from both surface and 
underground, with the 
aim of replenishing and 
increasing the resource 
and reserve base, and 
an update resource and 
reserve statement will be 
delivered in the second half 
of 2013. The expanding 
underground development in particular provides 
increasing drilling access to the northern and depth 
extents of the deposit.
Exploration activities continued on the seven other 
prospects in the 160km
2
 Sukari exploitation lease 
within trucking distance of the Sukari plant. The ﬁrst 
signiﬁcant signs of low grade porphyry away from Sukari 
Hill were identiﬁed at the V-Shear prospect and work 
continues to determine the extents and controls on 
this mineralisation. Elsewhere, on-going drilling at the 
Kurdeman prospect offers the potential to fast-track 
high grade ore to supplement the existing underground 
production. Further regional drilling of the Sukari licence 
is planned for 2013. 
Drilling in Ethiopia continued on our four exploration 
licences in the north of the country. Centamin intends 
to continue to grow and diversify its project pipeline 
through targeted acquisitions of exploration and 
development prospects in the region and beyond.
Despite the negative effect of having to pay higher costs 
for fuel for much of 2012, costs that were incurred 
as direct consequence of a decision taken by EGPC, 
which we are robustly contesting in Court, ﬁnancially, 
our position remains strong with approximately US$220 
million held in cash, bullion, gold sales receivables and 
available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, no debt and no hedging. 
With revenues of US$426 million and a proﬁt for the 
year of US$199 million, Sukari continued to demonstrate 
in 2012 that it remains highly cash generative and well 
placed to fund its growth from cost recoveries. We have 
exited the year as we had planned with a strong cash 
position and having made a signiﬁcant investment and 
progress toward completing Stage 4. Completion of Stage 
4 will mark the end of a major expansion and investment 
programme at Sukari.
Our appeal against the 30 October 2012 ruling by  
the Egyptian Administrative Court, which we believe  
is based on an incorrect assertion that there was a lack 
of evidence with respect to our exploitation lease at 
Sukari, remains on-going. Very importantly on 20 March 
2013 the Supreme Administrative Court approved our 
application to suspend enforcement of the 30 October 
ruling until the conclusion of the appeal process and 
this will allow operations at Sukari to continue whilst the 
court process runs its course. We have full conﬁdence 
in our legal title and our appeal case and also highlight 
the separate supporting appeals lodged by the Ministry 
of Petroleum and the Egyptian Mineral Resource 
Authority (EMRA). It is our belief that this re-enforces 
the government’s publicly-stated view that the terms of 
our Concession Agreement are fair and that Centamin’s 
continued investment and operation at Sukari are both 
necessary and welcome. I would like to thank the 
Minister of Petroleum and EMRA for standing by us 
throughout the year and I look forward to the continued 
co-operation as we deliver on our stated goals. 
I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari,  
in Alexandria, London, Jersey and Perth for their 
efforts in 2012 as Centamin continued on its journey 
to becoming an established gold producer. In a year 
where there were many events that required your board’s 
attention it was a year that the depth, professionalism 
and dedication of your Non-Executive Directors came  
to the fore. I would like to thank deeply the Board for 
their counsel.
Despite and because of the challenges that we have 
faced in 2012, your company remains well positioned  
to deliver outstanding growth and shareholder returns  
in the coming years. I look forward to updating you 
further over the course of 2013 either at our AGM,  
which this year will be held in Jersey on 23 May,  
or at our presentation to shareholders that will be  
held in London on 16 May.
Josef El-Raghy
Chairman
