 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
6
Dear shareholders
During 2013, the fourth full year of production at Sukari, your Company built 
further on its track record delivering against targets, whilst maintaining a strong 
control over its cost base. Sukari delivered a record 356,943 ounces of gold at 
a cash cost of production of US$663 per ounce, which was ahead of guidance 
of 320,000 ounces at US$700 per ounce set out in the first quarter of the 
year. The operating environment in Egypt improved markedly in comparison 
with a challenging 2012. I once again take this opportunity to extend my 
congratulations to the team in Egypt for their professionalism, hard work and 
consistent focus on improving productivity, which has resulted in another 
year of exceptional performance for the operation. Shareholders should not 
underestimate these efforts, which allow Centamin to stand out in a sector which 
generally suffers a reputation of missed forecasts and broken promises.
Sukari’s safety performance was also a significant improvement on the previous 
year with a lost time injury frequency rate of 0.36 (0.69 in 2012) per 200,000 
man hours achieved during the period. It was again pleasing to note that no 
significant environmental incidents have taken place.
Construction of the Stage 4 expansion to double the processing plant’s 
nameplate capacity to 10 million tonnes per annum was complete by the end of 
2013, and commissioning is currently under way. This major two‑and‑a‑half year 
expansion project has been completed with minimal cost and timing overruns. 
This would represent a major achievement in itself, but is all the more notable 
given the various external challenges that were faced, particularly during the 
early stages of construction. The capital cost estimate of the Stage 4 expansion is 
US$331.2 million including contingency, with expenditure at the end of 2013 of 
US$327.8 million. 
Commissioning and optimisation of the expanded plant is now a key deliverable 
as Sukari looks towards a further year of growth in 2014, with our annual 
production guidance set at 420,000 ounces at a cash cost of US$700 per ounce. 
Thereafter, we continue to forecast a sustainable output of 450,000 – 500,000 
ounces per annum from 2015 onwards, with scope to exceed the upper limit 
once the new plant is fully optimised and operating at above‑nameplate levels of 
productivity, as demonstrated by the existing plant during 2013.
Sukari is a long‑life asset which is supported by a globally significant resource 
and reserve base. An updated resource and reserve statement was announced 
at the end of the year, with total resources containing 15.4 million ounces 
(“Moz”)
 (1)
 and reserves containing 8.2Moz of gold. With the underground mine 
continuing to ramp‑up in productivity and being a key driver of our substantial 
and low cost production profile, it was of particular encouragement to see the 
underground reserve increase in tonnage by 120% over the previous 2011 
estimate, despite mining depletion during that period. With grades in the 
Proven category of 11.4g/t gold, and with continued good results from ongoing 
drilling into the target high‑grade depth extensions of the ore body, we remain 
confident of further significant underground reserve expansion and longevity of 
the operation.
During 2013, the fourth full year of production at Sukari, 
your Company built further on its track record delivering 
against targets whilst maintaining a strong control over 
its cost base. 
Chairman’s statement
Josef El‑Raghy
Chairman and CEO CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
7
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements
As previously indicated to shareholders, the Company 
significantly progressed its medium and long‑term growth 
strategy during 2013. In September, Centamin entered 
into a joint venture with AIM‑listed Alecto Minerals plc over 
their exploration projects in Ethiopia, thus expanding our 
presence in this important region of focus for the Company. 
The announcement in December of a recommended 
all‑share takeover offer of ASX‑listed Ampella Mining Ltd, 
valuing the company at A$40.9 million, saw the Company 
expand its interests into West Africa. This offer represented 
a compelling opportunity to acquire an undervalued suite 
of exploration‑stage licences in highly prospective regions 
of Burkina Faso and Côte d’Ivoire. Centamin now has a 
controlling interest in Ampella and is looking forward to 
implementing a systematic exploration programme in 2014, 
aimed at developing the outstanding potential for further 
significant growth of the existing 3.25Moz resource base 
(comprising 1.92Moz Indicated and 1.33Moz Inferred).
Our financial position remains strong with approximately 
US$142.5 million held in cash, bullion on hand, gold 
sales receivables and available‑for‑sale financial assets. 
The Company also continues to be debt free with no 
hedging arrangements. Revenues of US$503.8 million and 
EBITDA of US$234.2 million in 2013 (including exceptional 
items) continue to demonstrate that Sukari remains a highly 
cash generative operation. With the major Stage 4 capital 
programme now behind us, and therefore the staged 
expansionary “investment phase” nearing completion, 
shareholders can now look forward to a long‑life operation 
which will now start to generate substantial free cash flow. 
Accordingly, during the course of 2014 Centamin will make 
clear its intentions with regard to a policy for returning 
capital to its shareholders.
Our appeal against the 30 October 2012 ruling by the 
Egyptian Administrative Court, on the validity of the 
exploitation lease, remains ongoing. We believe the action 
is misconceived as we have clear evidence that there is a 
valid exploitation lease in existence. Important progress 
was made in March 2013 when the Supreme Administrative 
Court approved our application to suspend enforcement of 
the October 2012 ruling until the conclusion of the appeal 
process. Furthermore, the statement by the court at this 
hearing that the original ruling “was likely to be cancelled 
upon the issuance of a judgment on the merits of the 
case” supports our full confidence in our legal title and 
the strength of our appeal case. We continue to benefit 
from the full support of the Ministry of Petroleum and the 
Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority (“EMRA”), both in 
the appeal and at the operational level, to whom I would 
like to extend our thanks for their continued co‑operation 
in helping us to deliver a world class mining operation. 
We look forward to continuing to share the benefits of this 
substantial investment as the operation emerges from its 
initial period of construction and thus sets the stage for a 
new era of gold mining in Egypt. 
This year, the Chairman of the Corporate Governance 
Committee has presented the Corporate Governance 
Report. As Chairman of the Board I agree and endorse both 
this report and the values of good governance reflected in 
it. In my view Board effectiveness has been achieved, in no 
small part, by ensuring that communication channels are 
open between all Board members and regular information is 
presented to the Board allowing all members to contribute 
knowledgeably at Board meetings and in discussions 
between the executives and non executive directors.
I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari, 
in Alexandria, Ethiopia, Jersey and Perth for their efforts 
in 2013 as Centamin continued on its journey to becoming 
an established gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned to deliver 
outstanding shareholder returns in the coming years. I look 
forward to updating you further over the course of 2014, 
and would welcome you to join us at our AGM which this 
year will be held in Jersey on 16 May 2014.
Josef El‑Raghy
Chairman
21 March 2014
Sukari Open Pit
holding bay for the dump trucks
(1)
(Includes 1.9Moz of inferred resources). CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
8
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013
8
New mining fleet arrived
and assembled onsite  
(Sukari Hill in the background)
Strategic report
Our growth strategy seeks to 
optimise exposure through the 
mining value chain: exploration, 
development and operations.
