 Strategic report
| Centamin plc Annual report 2014 10
Chairman’s statement
Centamin’s corporate strategy seeks to deliver peer‑leading 
shareholder returns by taking gold projects from 
exploration, through development and into production. 
In this respect, 2014 was a pivotal year for the Company. 
Our flagship Sukari Gold Mine saw the successful 
commissioning of the US$331 million Stage 4 process 
plant expansion, marking the project’s transition out of the 
investment phase and into a sustainable period of free 
cash flow generation over an expected minimum 20‑year 
mine life. In recognition of this and due to the Company’s 
strong financial position, the Board of Directors initiated a 
dividend programme during 2014 with a maiden interim 
dividend of 0.87 US cents per share. The Company is now 
pleased to announce the approval of a final dividend for 
2014 of 1.99 US cents per share (totalling approximately 
US$23 million) which represents for the full year, a pay‑out 
level of approximately 30% of our free cash flow as defined 
by our dividend policy.
The strong ramp‑up in production rates associated with the 
expansion presented a number of operational challenges 
during 2014. Although our strong track record of delivery 
against annual gold production guidance was affected by 
lower‑than‑expected processing rates and underground 
grades, resulting in revised guidance, the fourth quarter saw 
annualised rates in excess of our long term 450‑500,000 
ounce target. Full year production of 377,261 ounces was 
a 6% increase on 356,943 ounces in 2013. This strong end 
to the year was achieved as plant throughput exceeded the 
expanded 10Mtpa nameplate capacity and open pit grades 
increased in line with the mine plan.
Cost control remains an absolute focus of the Company 
and it is pleasing to note that, despite full year production 
of around 10% lower than forecast at the start of the year, 
the cash operating cost of US$729/oz was only marginally 
above our original US$700/oz guidance. In line with 
the strong production rate, Q4 cash operating costs of 
US$655/oz point towards the long‑term potential of the 
operation to deliver highly‑competitive cash margins. 
Our growth strategy seeks 
to optimise exposure 
through the mining 
value chain: exploration, 
development and 
operations.
Josef El‑Raghy
Chairman Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
 
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 11
The impact of a weaker gold price environment contributed 
towards a 29% year‑on‑year reduction of EBITDA to 
US$165.4 million. Profit after tax of US$81.6 million was 
down 56% on 2013 and earnings per share of 7.21 cents 
compare with 16.87 cents in 2013. Gold production 
guidance for 2015 is 420,000 ounces at a cash operating 
cost of US$700/oz and all‑in‑sustaining cost (“AISC”) of 
US$950/oz. The northern and eastern walls of the open pit 
are a focus for 2015 and, as mining progresses through the 
upper portions of the next stage of pit development, grades 
are scheduled to progressively increase to the reserve 
average in the second half of the year, when production 
is expected to increase to the 450‑500,000 ounce per 
annum rate. 
Over the medium term, continued optimisation and higher 
productivity rates, in particular within the processing and 
underground mining operations, offer good potential for 
further production growth and reductions in AISC for no 
additional capital expenditure for expansion. We therefore 
remain confident that Sukari will continue to deliver further 
incremental growth over the coming years.
Centamin remains committed to its policy of being 100% 
exposed to the gold price through its unhedged position 
and our balance sheet remains strong, with US$162.8 million 
in cash, bullion on hand, gold sales receivables and 
available‑for‑sale financial assets as at 31 December 2014.
During 2014 Centamin made good progress in securing 
its longer‑term growth objectives. The completion of the 
Ampella Mining acquisition in March gave us a substantial 
footprint in the highly prospective regions of Burkina 
Faso and Côte d’Ivoire. Subsequent to completion of 
the acquisition, a systematic exploration programme was 
initiated aimed at developing the potential for further 
significant growth of the 1.9Moz Indicated and 1.3Moz 
Inferred resource. 
Processing plant at Sukari Strategic report
| Centamin plc Annual report 2014 12
Chairman’s statement continued
Whilst disciplined and sustainable growth on our existing 
projects remains a key focus, we continue to evaluate 
opportunities to grow through the acquisition of projects 
which offer the potential for the Company to deliver on its 
strategic objectives.
The two litigation actions, Diesel Fuel Oil and Concession 
Agreement, progressed in line with our expectations during 
the year and are described in further detail in Note 20 to the 
financial statements. In respect of the latter, the Company 
continues to believe that it has a strong legal position and, 
in addition, that it will ultimately benefit from the new law 
no. 32 of 2014, which came into force in April 2014 and 
which restricts the capacity for third parties to challenge any 
contractual agreement between the Egyptian government 
and an investor. This new law is currently under review by 
the Supreme Constitutional Court of Egypt. We are aware of 
the potential for the legal process in Egypt to be slow and 
for cases to be subject to delays and adjournments but we 
remain confident of the merits of the two cases.
The Group continues to benefit from the full support of the 
Ministry of Petroleum and EMRA, both in the Concession 
Agreement appeal and at the operational level. As part 
of our long‑term strategy, we look forward to continuing 
to share the benefits of this substantial investment as the 
operation, having transitioned from its initial period of 
construction, sets the stage for a new era of gold mining 
in Egypt.
Subsequent to the year end, Andrew Pardey was appointed 
as Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and joined the Board 
as an executive director from 1 February 2015. Andrew has 
been a driving force behind Sukari’s growth into one of the 
world’s leading gold mines and of Centamin’s development 
from a junior exploration company into one of the largest 
gold producers in North Africa. His experience and 
stewardship will be of invaluable benefit to the business 
as it continues to develop and realise its next stages of 
growth. In my role as Chairman I look forward to continuing 
to work with the Company towards delivering substantial 
shareholder value through further development of our 
portfolio of assets.
Trevor Schultz resigned as an executive director and was 
appointed as a non‑executive director from 1 May 2014, 
coinciding with the successful completion of construction 
of the Stage 4 expansion and hand over to operations for 
commissioning. Trevor has made an invaluable contribution 
to the establishment of Sukari as a globally‑significant 
gold mining operation, in particular with his recent role in 
overseeing the construction of the Stage 4 process plant. 
Such a major construction project that was completed 
with minimal cost and time overruns is testament to his 
strong leadership and experience. I am delighted that the 
Company and its shareholders continue to benefit from 
Trevor’s counsel in his role as a non‑executive director.
Subsequent to the year‑end, Professor G Robert 
Bowker (aged 65) retired as a non‑executive director, 
effective from 26 January 2015. Bob has been involved with 
the Company since 2008 and during this time the Centamin 
team have benefited greatly from his insightful view of the 
political landscape in Egypt and the wider region. Bob has 
provided valued counsel to those that he has worked with 
over the years and has been a part of the evolution of the 
Company from explorer to Egypt’s first modern gold miner. 
All of us at Centamin wish him well in the future.
This year, the Chairman of the Corporate Governance 
Committee has presented the corporate governance 
report. As Chairman of the Board I agree and endorse 
both this report and the values of good governance 
reflected in it. In my view Board effectiveness has been 
achieved, in no small part, by ensuring that communication 
channels are open between all Board members and 
regular information is presented to the Board allowing 
all members to contribute knowledgeably at Board 
meetings and in discussions between the executives 
and non‑executive directors.
We take every action to ensure Sukari has the minimum 
impact on the social environment, as well as to deliver 
positive benefits to Egypt and the community as a result 
of our investment. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
 
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 13
I would like to close by thanking all those at Sukari, in 
Alexandria, Ethiopia, Burkina Faso, Côte d’Ivoire, Jersey 
and Perth for their efforts in 2014 as Centamin continued 
on its journey to becoming an established cash‑generative 
gold producer.
Your Company remains well positioned to deliver 
outstanding shareholder returns in the coming years as 
we adhere to our philosophy of focusing on free cash flow 
generation, returns to shareholders and growth through 
exploration. I look forward to updating you further over 
the course of 2015, and would welcome you to join us 
at our AGM, which this year will be held in London on 
18 May 2015.
This strategic review, progress on strategy, key performance 
indicators and business model together form the Strategic 
Report, which has been approved by the Board of Directors.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of Centamin plc.
Josef El‑Raghy
Chairman
23 March 2015
Blast hole drilling in Sukari pit
