 Strategic report
| Centamin plc Annual report 2014 14
Dear shareholders
2014 was another year of production growth for Sukari 
and overall performance bodes well for the potential of the 
operation to generate significant free cash flow over the 
coming years. The Stage 4 project to double nameplate 
capacity at the process plant to 10 million tonnes per annum 
(Mtpa) was completed during the first half of the year for a 
total capital expenditure of US$331.2 million. The project 
was completed on budget and with limited timeline 
over‑runs, representing a solid achievement in itself, but is 
all the more notable when set against the various external 
challenges that were faced, particularly during the early 
stages of the construction period. 
Whilst affected by periods of below‑expected productivity, 
progressive increases in plant throughput continued as 
commissioning activities took effect and the nameplate 
10Mtpa capacity was reached, and exceeded, from 
September onwards.
The fourth quarter was another record for both open pit 
and underground mining rates and productivity in both of 
these areas remains strong. Following government approval 
in the fourth quarter for the increase in Ammonium Nitrate 
(“AN”) usage, the open pit is now on a secure footing to 
deliver the scheduled material movements as required for 
the expanded operation. The underground mine continued 
to deliver strong increases in volumes through 2014, 
achieving above‑target levels by year end, although with 
lower grades than originally forecast. With the operation 
now appropriately scaled for the higher processing 
rate, the focus for 2015 is on reducing grade volatility 
and thereafter leveraging the potential for additional 
productivity increases. 
The efficiency gains delivered with the production 
ramp‑up are indicated by a material year‑on‑year decrease 
in operating costs per tonne, in both the mining and 
processing areas. This is a trend we expect to continue in 
the coming quarters as the expanded operation continues 
to be optimised. 
Chief Executive Officer’s report
Centamin is entering a 
sustainable period of cash 
generation, which it will 
use to reward shareholders 
through dividends and 
ongoing growth. 
Andrew Pardey
Chief Executive Officer Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 15
 
Our strategic priorities
As the new Chief Executive Officer, I have summarised below the strategic aims for the Company  
over the coming years, which are threefold:
2
Shareholder 
return
3
Growth
1
Cash  
generation
To generate substantial 
free cash flow from 
operations.  
 
 
      See page 18
To provide returns  
to shareholders which  
stand out against our  
peer group.  
 
      See page 20
To use cash reserves  
to fund our next stage  
of growth. 
  
 
      See page 22
Centamin’s track record of safety is an aspect of our 
performance of which I am both pleased and eager to 
improve. Developing a strong culture of health and safety 
awareness onsite has resulted in improved reporting of 
incidents compared to previous years and our LTI frequency 
rate of 0.39 per 200,000 man‑hours in 2014 (0.36 in 2013) 
is a solid achievement, especially when considering Sukari 
is the first modern gold mine in Egypt. Nevertheless, there 
remains room for improvement and our target is for zero 
injuries and having every person go home safely every day. 
Subsequent to the year end, an unfortunate incident 
occurred in Burkina Faso on a public road near the Konkera 
village which resulted in one of our local employees being 
fatally wounded and another sustaining injuries. The 
wellbeing of our employees is a priority for Centamin and a 
thorough investigation into this bandit attack, on two of our 
vehicles, has been carried out. Further additional security 
measures have been proposed following the incident and 
these are being implemented. There was no impact on 
operational activity as a result of the incident. Strategic report
| Centamin plc Annual report 2014 16
Chief Executive Officer’s report continued
The focus for 2015 is to continue production growth  
at Sukari whilst maintaining a strong control on costs,  
with the objective of generating substantial free cash flow 
even under challenging gold price assumptions. 
The greenhouse gas emissions reporting required by 
Schedule 7 of The Large and Medium‑Sized Companies 
and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 as 
amended by The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report 
and Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013, is a requirement 
only on UK incorporated quoted companies. Centamin has, 
however, provided information relating to this legislation in 
the CSR report. 
 See pages 46 to 57
Maintaining good community relations is a core part of our 
operational strategy and corporate governance standards. 
As the first mining company in Egypt in modern times, we 
strive to set an example of a socially responsible industry 
through adopting a good neighbour policy. We take every 
action to ensure Sukari has the minimum impact on the 
social environment, as well as to deliver positive benefits to 
Egypt and the community as a result of our investment, and 
further details of our various initiatives can be found in the 
CSR report.
Our work force is remunerated well above the average for 
Egypt and our career development programmes are highly 
valued. In general we enjoy a very positive and constructive 
relationship with our employees.
Outlook
The focus for 2015 is to continue production growth at 
Sukari whilst maintaining a strong control on costs, with 
the objective of generating substantial free cash flow even 
under challenging gold price assumptions. We intend to 
return 15‑30% of this cash flow to our shareholders, in line 
with our dividend policy, and to allocate the remainder 
towards our medium and long‑term objective of organic 
growth aimed at realising incremental shareholder value 
and returns.
Safety remains a priority and our target is a lost time injury 
rate of zero during 2015.
Guidance for 2015 is for 420,000 ounces at US$700/oz 
cash operating cost and US$950/oz all‑in‑sustaining cost. 
Production is expected to achieve the 450‑500,000 ounce 
per annum target rate from second half of 2015 onwards. 
In the open pit, the focus will continue on the northern 
and eastern cutback to expose higher grade ore from the 
second half of the year. This will ensure that the operation 
is on a secure footing to sustain, on an annual basis, the 
required tonnages at reserve‑average grades. 
We aim to build on the significant productivity increases 
from the underground mine by targeting a reduction in 
grade volatility.
As we achieve these targets, and during the next two 
to three year period, we intend to continue optimising 
the various areas of the expanded Sukari operation 
with the ultimate aim of delivering further production 
increases. The productivity levels achieved during 2013 
in the pre‑expansion process plant, together with the 
various design improvements implemented during the 
Stage 4 project build, provide us with confidence that the 
expanded plant will achieve, in time, production levels 
materially above nameplate capacity. At the underground 
mine, as stable grade delivery is achieved at the current 
mined volumes, we see potential for further incremental 
productivity increases. 
The additional shareholder value that can be gained from 
the continued drive for efficiency has the potential to be 
significant and requires no significant capital expenditure. 
No capital expenditure for expansion or project 
development is planned for 2015. Strategic report Directors’ report Financial statements Shareholder information
 
Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 17
Exploration at Sukari continues to prioritise extensions of 
the high‑grade underground resource and reserve and we 
expect to continue to deliver positive news in line with the 
strong results to date. A resource and reserve update is 
planned during 2015.
Outside of Sukari, we expect a total exploration expenditure 
of circa US$20 million in 2015, with the largest proportion 
on the advanced exploration programme in Burkina Faso. 
Our exploration tenements in Côte d’Ivoire and Ethiopia 
are no less prospective, requiring a lower exploration spend 
due to their earlier stage. In line with our overall exploration 
strategy, the actual expenditure on these projects is results 
driven and the current estimated expenditures are therefore 
subject to ongoing revisions.
We will continue to evaluate potential opportunities to 
grow the business through the acquisition of projects 
offering the potential for the Company to deliver on its 
strategic objectives. 
Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their 
hard work over the years including the employees onsite 
at Sukari, those on the exploration sites in Burkina Faso, 
Ethiopia and Côte d’Ivoire as well as those in the corporate 
and administration offices in Jersey and Australia. I would 
also like to thank your Board of Directors for their support 
over the years and I am very much looking forward to 2015 
and beyond.
Andrew Pardey
Chief Executive Officer
23 March 2015
Processing plant at Sukari
