 Centaur Media plc 
Annual Report 
2011
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011
PATRICK
TAYLOR
Chairman 07
Centaur Media plc 
Annual Report 
2011
YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2011
On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to report a good
set of results for 2011, led by strong organic growth
across all divisions.  Adjusted EBITDA increased by
50% to £9.9m (FY10: £6.6m) driven by revenue
growth of 14%.  Adjusted profit before tax increased
by 63% to £6.5m (FY10: £4.0m) with adjusted EPS
up 55% to 3.4p (FY10: 2.2p). Cash flow has been
exceptionally strong with operating cash flow
increasing by 83% to £8.4m (FY10: £4.6m).
On 28 June 2011 we announced a restructuring of
the Group’s business into three divisions: Business
Publishing, Business Information and Exhibitions. The
restructuring is accompanied by a strengthened senior
management team, including experienced external
appointments to lead our Business Information and
Exhibitions divisions,  and will accelerate the Group’s
delivery of our strategic objectives. These are to build
market leading positions in high growth markets, to
increase the quality of our revenue streams, to invest
in high quality content and digital platforms, and to
leverage scale to deliver rapid growth in EBITDA
margins and cash flow. We are excited by the
opportunities created by these changes and
encouraged that they have been implemented
decisively and effectively.
In addition to these restructuring initiatives, we have
also completed two acquisitions. The Forum for
Expatriate Management (“FEM”) was acquired in April
2011, and is complementary to our portfolio of
assets serving the specialist HR community.  Since the
year-end we have acquired Investment Platforms
Limited (“IPL”), a specialist information business in
the retail financial services sector, which offers a good
fit with our products serving the investment
intermediary community. Acquisitions will continue to
play an important role in the delivery of our strategy,
and recent acquisitions including Taxbriefs and FEM
have performed well.
DIVIDEND
The growth in adjusted EPS provides the context for
the Board’s recommendation of a final dividend of
1.3p per share, giving a full year dividend of 2.0p
(FY10: 1.7p). This 18% increase in full year dividend
reflects the Board’s confidence in the future prospects
for the Group.
The level of dividend cover against adjusted EPS at
1.7x (FY10: 1.3x) remains below our target level of
between 2.0x to 3.0x across an economic cycle. The
Board’s view is that this is appropriate as we continue
to recover from the recent recession and as we begin
to see the benefits from the restructuring. 
BOARD AND STAFF
Centaur’s growth since its foundation in 1981 and the
creation of its portfolio of market-leading brands has
been largely organic and attributable to its
entrepreneurial culture, which has enabled us to
attract and retain high quality people.  The skills and
experience of our staff are evident in the results
achieved in the past year.  
The recent restructuring is intended to reinforce this
entrepreneurial culture and to harness it more
effectively so as to provide new opportunities for our
staff to thrive and grow in the future.  I am confident
that they will continue to respond enthusiastically to
these new opportunities.
I also continue to be impressed by the quality of
our people, by their enthusiasm for the business and
by their determination to grow the business as the
market improves. On behalf of the Board and our
shareholders, I would like to thank all of our staff for
the efforts they have made.
CURRENT TRADING AND OUTLOOK 
In the first two months of the new financial year we
have seen further growth in our operations. July and
August are traditionally a quieter period for our
publishing and event businesses, but we have
experienced an encouraging start to the year. 
We are already seeing the benefits of the restructuring
flowing through, particularly within the Business
Publishing division. 
Centaur’s business is now more focused, higher
margin, better balanced and more resilient. With an
experienced and ambitious management team in place,
the Board is confident that the Group is now well
positioned for future growth in revenues and margins.
Patrick Taylor
Chairman
14 September 2011
We have repositioned the business to
accelerate growth in revenues and
margins and improve the quality of 
our earnings.
Our entrepreneurial culture reinforced
by a strengthened management team
oﬀer exciting potential.
Chairman’s Statement
