 CENTAUR MEDIA PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
6
Overview
 growth, albeit at a slower rate than initially anticipated, in what 
have remained challenging economic conditions. I am also happy to 

 proved volatile for much of 2013, but also a sharper focus across 
the Group and with much greater emphasis on the speed of change 
and delivery of results.
Adjusted EBITDA increased by 10% to £12.9m (2012: £11.7m). 
 with adjusted EPS up 7% to 4.5p (2012: 4.2p). 

business over the last two years, the management changes made in 

strategic objectives. These strategic objectives are to build market-
leading positions in selected high growth markets, to improve the 
quality of our revenue streams by growing revenues from digital, 
paid-for content and events, and to leverage scale to deliver 

Our refocus around four market segments - Marketing, Professional, 
Financial and Consumer - will facilitate effective delivery and execution 
of revenue and cost synergies, strengthen further initiatives to increase 
the proportion of revenues generated from digital, paid-for content 
and events, and allow the business to exploit fully the opportunities 

Dividend

giving a full year dividend of 2.4p (2012: 2.25p). The 7% increase in 

prospects of the Group.
The level of dividend cover against adjusted EPS at 1.9 times (2012: 
1.9 times) remains slightly below our target level of 2 to 3 times. 

restructuring and investment initiatives we have undertaken over 
the last two years.
Board and employees
The last 12 months have been a time of both challenge and 
achievement for the business and our people. I would like to take 
this opportunity to express my thanks to all our employees for their 

future success.
Colin Morrison has served as a non-executive director since 2004 
and will not be offering himself for re-election at the Annual 
General Meeting in November 2013. I would like to place on record 
my thanks for the contribution that Colin has made to the Board and 
the Group over the last 9 years.

2013. The process to appoint a new permanent Chief Executive 

announcement in due course.
Current trading and outlook 
The trading momentum across the Group in the latter part of the 
 on markets and customers, opportunities to scale the business more 
effectively, and a strong pipeline of new digital platforms and event 
launches, Centaur is better placed to exploit fully the numerous 
opportunities across the Group.
The Group ended the year with an improved revenue and earnings 

are growing well, whilst the print, advertising funded businesses 

positive.
 refocused organisation, and accelerating organic and new product 
growth.
Patrick Taylor
Chairman
11 September 2013
 CENTAUR MEDIA PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013
7
“I am pleased to be able to 

alongside a sharper focus on 
our markets and customers 
and greater emphasis on the 
speed of change and the 
delivery of results.”
PATRICK TAYLOR
CHAIRMAN
