 GOVERNANCE
82 83
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE ON THE SPEND ON PAY
The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders 
and employee remuneration costs. Given the reporting period is 18 months and 
previous statutory reporting period was for the year ended 30 June 2013, the employee 
remuneration costs and dividend paid presented below are based on consistent 
12-month periods to 31 December 2014 and 2013.
 2014 2013 % Change
Employee remuneration costs (£m) £26.2m £26.2m 0%
Dividends paid (£m) £3.6m £3.4m 6%
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS
The Executive Directors did not have any external directorships in the reporting period.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring, reviewing and making 
recommendations to the Board at least annually on the broad policy for the remuneration 
of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and Company Secretary. It also determines 
their individual remuneration packages, including pension arrangements, bonuses and 
all incentive schemes and the determination of targets for any performance-related 
pay schemes operated by the group – asking the Board, when appropriate, to seek 
shareholder approval for any long-term incentive arrangements, bonuses, incentive 
payments and any compensation payments and share option entitlements. In addition  
the Committee monitors and recommends the level and structure of remuneration for 
senior management.
During the reporting period, the Committee consisted of the following Non-Executive 
Directors: Rebecca Miskin (Chair from 13 November 2013), Colin Morrison (previous 
Chairman), Robert Boyle (from 13 November 2013) and Chris Satterthwaite.  The 
Remuneration Committee meets at least twice each year and met 8 times during the 
reporting period. Minutes of the Committee are circulated to the Board once they have 
been approved by the Committee.
EXTERNAL ADVISORS
The Remuneration Committee has access to independent advice where it considers it 
appropriate.  The Committee seeks advice relating to executive remuneration from New 
Bridge Street (NBS), part of Aon plc.  
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received by NBS in relation to executive 
remuneration matters during the reporting period under review was objective and 
independent.  NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by 
the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be 
objective and impartial.  The fees paid to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive 
remuneration over the 18 months under review was £44,375. 
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING
At last year’s AGM, the Directors’ Remuneration Report received the following votes from 
shareholders:
 For Against Votes Cast Votes withheld
Total number of votes 101,742,264 15,335,042 117,077,306 37,068
% of votes cast 87% 13% 100% 
APPROVAL
The Board of Directors has approved this Directors’ Remuneration Report, including both 
the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
Rebecca Miskin 
Chair of the Remuneration Committee 
10 March 2015 GOVERNANCE
84 85
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors’ 
Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law 
and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial 
year. Under that law the Directors have prepared the group and parent company financial 
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as 
adopted by the European Union.  Under company law the Directors must not approve the 
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the 
state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that 
period.  In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
 •  Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
 •  Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
 •  State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been 
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial 
statements; and
 •  Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is 
inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient 
to show and explain the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy 
at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to 
ensure that the financial statements and the Directors’ Remuneration Report comply 
with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of 
the IAS Regulation. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company 
and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of 
fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company’s 
website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination 
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. 
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, 
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders 
to assess a company’s performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of Directors 
summary on page 44, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge:
 •  The group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs 
as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit of the group; and
 •  The Operational Review and Financial Review, contained in the Strategic Report 
and the Directors’ Report contained in the Governance Report, include a fair review 
of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, 
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITORS
The Directors confirm that, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit 
information of which the company’s auditors are unaware, and the Directors have taken 
all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves 
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are 
aware of that information. 
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 
s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board
Grainne Brankin 
Company Secretary 
10 March 2015
