 BUSINESS MODEL
The group’s activities are categorised across four market 
segments: Marketing, Financial Services, Professional and 
Home Interest. These activities are supported by expert 
teams across commercial, digital product development, 
marketing and research, production and live events. 
The group generates revenues from three primary revenue 
sources: paid-for content, live events and advertising.
 Paid-for content revenues include:
   Subscriptions: These are the fees that customers 
pay to receive access to the group’s information, 
through online access to various databases, regular 
delivery of soft copy research or hard copy magazines. 
Subscription revenue is recognised over the period of 
the subscription.
  Copy sales: These are generated primarily across 
the group’s Home Interest print titles, Homebuilding 
& Renovating, Real Homes and Period Living, and 
selectively across the group’s business magazines, 
including Creative Review and Marketing Week. This 
revenue stream includes the sale of market reports 
from the Platforum business and other one-off sales  
of products and services. Revenues are recognised in 
line with the publishing schedule for these products.
  Live events revenues are recognised when the event is 
held and are typically paid in advance of the event.  
These include:
  Exhibitor revenues: These represent space sold at 
our live events that enable our customers to raise 
awareness and sell their products and services. It is an 
ideal way for our customers to forge new relationships 
through face-to-face meetings and sell or showcase 
their products.
  Sponsorship revenues: Across all of our live events, 
we have partners that want to be associated with the 
event. Through their participation they can create, 
develop and increase brand awareness, furthering 
their credibility within a target audience to develop 
contacts and exposure for their business. 
  Attendee revenues: Our consumer focused  
exhibitions, The Festival of Marketing and our meetings 
and awards events all charge a fee to attendees. The 
group also generates revenues from sales of tables 
for companies and individuals to attend the various 
industry awards evenings the group organises, as well 
as the paid-for entries to these awards. 
   Training revenues: The group provides digital 
marketing training services to customers in the UK  
and overseas through the Econsultancy business. 
These services are delivered through public training 
courses and through the delivery of bespoke services 
to clients. Revenues are recognised when the training 
is delivered.
  Advertising revenues represent the fees that customers 
pay to place an advertisement in one or more of the 
group’s publications, either in print, online or mobile. 
There are products where advertising is the main driver 
and others where advertising is simply a supplemental 
earnings stream. This includes display, classified and 
recruitment advertising whatever the delivery platform. 
The group also classifies as advertising, revenues 
generated from sponsored content, content marketing, 
native advertising and other publication-based marketing 
solutions, whether print or digital. Revenue is recognised 
on publication.
The focus on our markets and audience enables us 
to build a deeper understanding of the commercial 
opportunities across each market. We know that our 
customers want flexible content that works seamlessly 
across multiple platforms.  By leveraging this market 
insight and an understanding of our customer 
requirements we are able to offer a higher value customer 
proposition. This is delivered in whatever format our 
clients want, whether that is in print, digital or as a live 
event. Each market portfolio has clear growth plans 
focused on new digital products, new revenues streams, 
multi-platform content and clear competitor differentials.
Supporting each of these markets, we have centralised 
expert teams across commercial, digital product 
development, marketing and research, production and live 
events. These teams provide the expertise and scale that 
allows us to support effectively and efficiently the delivery 
of commercial opportunities across each market. The 
creation of these expert teams also enables us to manage 
our cost base effectively and to prioritise investment 
across the business.
The commercial activities of the business, including 
the market-facing portfolios and the expert teams, are 
supported by group functions including finance, HR, 
property, legal, risk management and IT.
All costs across the business are tightly managed with a 
rigorous focus on margin and return on investment. We 
seek to maintain as flexible and scalable cost base as 
possible, outsourcing or consolidating shared activities 
where possible. All of our London activities are now 
consolidated within one building.
This structure creates scale opportunities that alongside 
underlying revenue growth enables good progression 
in adjusted operating margins.  It also creates the 
opportunity to effectively bolt-on acquisitions where these 
can accelerate revenue and margin growth. 
While our business remains primarily UK focused, we 
have a growing presence in North America and Asia, 
and we continue to explore opportunities across these 
markets. An experienced general manager to oversee our 
US businesses was appointed in February 2015 and will be 
based in our New York office. 
 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
14 15
