 0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
CAML Share Price
CAML
FTSE UK Mining
FTSE AIM 100
Price (rebased to CAML) (£)
Mar 2013
Feb 2013
Jan 2013
Apr 2013
May 2013
Jun 2013
Jul 2013
Aug 2013
Sep 2013
Oct 2013
Nov 2013
Dec 2013
Jan 2014
Feb 2014
Mar 2014
6 CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
FOCUSING ON SUST AINABLE  
LOW COST OPERA TIONS
Since the start of the project we have worked 
over 1.6 million man-hours on site with no  
lost-time injuries. This is a testament to our 
commitment towards ensuring the highest 
standards of safety and awareness for all  
our staff.
Strong Operational Performance
The Company’s first full year of production at 
the Kounrad Project has been a great success. 
We produced 10,509 tonnes of copper 
cathode and surpassed our production target 
by 5% whilst maintaining a competitive cash 
cost base. During 2013, our C1 cash cost of 
production was $0.73/lb (2012: $0.71/lb) and 
fully absorbed costs within Kazakhstan were 
$1.13/lb (2012: $0.98/lb).
Since the Company’s IPO in September 2010, 
management has focused the Company’s 
efforts towards early cash flowing projects  
and away from exploration. The Kounrad 
SX-EW project in Kazakhstan was identified as 
the project capable of delivering on this 
objective and now, just three and a half years 
later, the Company has a world-class facility 
that consistently produces high-quality copper 
cathode at industry competitive cash costs.
The company took a decision pre-IPO to use 
the services of a Chinese engineering group, 
BGRIMM, to undertake the design and costing 
for our Kounrad SX-EW plant which resulted in 
significant capital cost savings. The design of 
the plant along with the dedication and 
professionalism of the Group’s 217 employees 
at site ensured that the plant ran efficiently 
and profitably.
The generation of $76.0 million of project 
revenue at Kounrad during 2013, combined 
with the low costs of production has resulted in 
healthy cashflows for the Group enabling us to 
instigate and maintain an aggressive dividend 
policy. The full-year dividend proposed for 
2013 of 9 pence per share amounts to $12.6 
million and represents 23% of the Group’s 
attributable revenue for the year.
Nick Clarke,  
CEO STRATEGIC  
REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7
$76.0m
Project revenue 2013 (2012: $51.1m)
Capacity expansion at Kounrad
Having successfully met our 2013 production 
target we have already committed to some 
minor expansion at the SX-EW plant in 
advance of completing the ownership 
transaction with Mr Kenges Rakishev. In 
January 2014, we announced that our 
targeted copper production for the year at 
Kounrad would increase to 11,000 tonnes. The 
increased capacity will be made possible due 
to the expansion of the boiler house with the 
installation of additional coal-fired boilers 
taking the boiler house capacity to 14MW.  
In turn, this will allow increased volumes of 
copper bearing solution to be processed  
during winter operations. 
Additional and more significant capacity 
expansion at Kounrad is also being evaluated 
and management thinking is well advanced 
with regard to the various options available  
at the site given its size and characteristics. 
Management believes that the most efficient 
means by which the resource base can be 
exploited over the remaining life of the licence 
is an expansion of the existing plant. This 
appears to offer the best value for 
shareholders whilst managing the risks 
associated with expanding the leaching 
process to the western dumps.
Further analysis and preliminary engineering 
design work with BGRIMM and local design 
institutes is planned for early 2014. The CAML 
Board will not make a definitive decision on  
the expansion plans until the transaction with  
Mr Kenges Rakishev is completed.
Corporate and Social Responsibility
Management is fully committed to adopting 
the highest possible standards of Corporate 
and Social Responsibility and in line with this 
commitment, in July 2013, I was delighted to 
appoint a hydrogeologist and environmental 
engineer, Nick Shirley, as CSR Director to  
lead the Kounrad Health and Safety and 
environmental team. 
The health and safety of our employees and 
contractors is our number one priority and I 
am pleased to report that we have had no 
lost-time injuries during the period. Indeed, 
since the commencement of construction  
back in July 2010 we can report in excess of  
1.6 million man-hours have been worked 
without a lost-time injury.
Throughout 2013, we continued to build on the 
positive relationships we have developed with 
the local community and stakeholders. We 
place great importance on such relationships 
and during the year we contributed over 
$178,000 towards regional and local causes. 
We also provided assistance to a number of 
community development programmes with 
the focus being on health, welfare and 
education.
Finally, we have placed particular emphasis 
during 2013 on raising the environmental 
awareness of all our staff throughout the 
Company through specialist training 
programmes. The aim of the programmes  
is to ensure all staff are aware of the 
environmental standards and requirements  
of the Company.
Kounrad Ownership
As reported last year, the transaction to 
amalgamate 100% ownership of the Kounrad 
project within the Group has been going 
through due process with the Kazakhstan 
authorities since early 2012. This remains the 
case as at 31 December 2013, although, as 
announced on 27 June 2013, the nature of the 
transaction was renegotiated during the year 
with Mr Kenges Rakishev.
Significantly, and as a consequence of the 
renegotiated transaction, the transfer of the 
40% interest in Kounrad Copper Company LLP 
was registered on 21 October 2013. This was a 
notable milestone for the Company, as this 
entity owns the SX-EW copper plant which is 
responsible for the production and delivery of 
the copper cathodes and is the key revenue 
generator for the overall business.
On conclusion of this part of the overall 
transaction, and in accordance with the 
contractual arrangements, Mr Kenges Rakishev 
was duly appointed a Non-Executive Director to 
the CAML Board in December 201 3. 
The Company will endeavour to complete the 
final part of the transaction, the transfer of the 
subsoil use contract to our subsidiary company, 
as quickly as possible through the help of  
Mr Kenges Rakishev and our locally based 
management team. We remain confident that  
it will be completed during the first half of 2014. 
More detail on the transaction is set out on page 9.
Copper Bay Limited
The Company made its first investment 
outside of the Central Asia region during 2013 
with the investment of $3.2 million for a 50% 
shareholding in Copper Bay Limited. The funds 
will be used to complete a pre-feasibility study 
on the copper tailings project at Chañaral Bay, 
Chile.
Management believe that the Chañaral Bay 
project has merit and we look forward to 
working with the Copper Bay management 
team in taking it to the next phase. The 
Company has the option to invest a further  
$3 million to increase its shareholding to 75% 
in Copper Bay Limited. It is currently envisaged 
that this further investment would be used  
to complete a definitive feasibility study on  
the project.
$28.6m
Total returns to shareholders
$44.5m
Cash at Bank (2012: $33.9m)
Drip feeders 8 CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Mongolia
The Company’s Mongolian assets were not progressed 
during the year. Efforts to sell the Ereen and Handgait 
projects were unsuccessful, however we continue to 
look to dispose of these projects. Our application for a 
mining permit at the Alag Bayan exploration project 
was not successful and as a result our exploration 
licence expired.
Consequently, management took the decision to close 
down our Mongolian operations and accordingly 
incurred a write down on the asset values of $12.9 
million. As at 31 December 2013, two of the subsidiaries, 
New CAML Mongolia LLC and Mongolian Silver 
Mountain LLC, had been sold locally for nil 
consideration and a third, Bayanresources LLC 
was close to finalisation, also for nil consolidation.
The Ereen and Handgait projects remain available for 
sale and management hope to complete this process 
during 2014.
Outlook
The Company’s primary objective for 2014 is to produce 
11,000 tonnes of copper at Kounrad and remain in the 
lowest quartile of the cash cost curve. Completion of the 
ownership transaction with Mr Kenges Rakishev remains 
a key objective for the first half of the year and this will 
then enable the Company to finalise its expansion plans 
for the Kounrad SX-EW project.
Outside of Kazakhstan, we will look for other opportunities 
to grow the business. We continue to evaluate other 
investment and acquisition opportunities worldwide for 
the Company which would add value to the shareholders 
and strengthen the Group’s asset portfolio.
I look forward to an exciting 2014 and would like to 
take this opportunity to thank all the staff for their hard 
work and dedication in making 2013 such a successful 
year for the Company.
Nick Clarke
Chief Executive Officer
Chief Executive Officer’s Statement (continued)
In 2014 the Company will 
complete the Kounrad 
Transaction and commence 
the process of increasing 
capacity on site. We will  
also look at opportunities for 
growth elsewhere in the World.
Boiler Plant $2.6m
▲ ▲ Construction will commence in April 2014
▲ ▲ Planned commissioning of two additional boilers in 
November 2014
▲ ▲ Will increase capacity to process copper bearing solution  
in winter periods
Increase ownership of Kounrad to 100%
▲ ▲ SX-EW plant already owned 100%
▲ ▲ Final waivers submitted for transfer of subsoil use contract 
and issuance of CAML shares
▲ ▲ Expected completion by 30 June 2014
SX-EW expansion
▲ ▲ Engineering designs and project plans well advanced
▲ ▲ Geological and hydrogeological testing of western dumps 
completed
▲ ▲ Over 200,000 tonnes of recoverable copper estimated 
within the western dump
Business Development
▲ ▲ Exit Mongolia
▲ ▲ Develop a pre-feasibility study for Copper Bay
▲ ▲ Assess other business opportunities both in Kazakhstan 
and elsewhere
