 4 CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
Chairman’s Statement
DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISES
2013 has proved to be another successful year 
for the Company. We have delivered on the 
key promises we made to investors during the 
IPO and met our production and cost targets 
for the year.
Dear Shareholders
Key achievements
The year ending 31 December 2013 has been 
another successful period in the development  
of the Company. We have delivered a strong 
operational and financial performance and 
achieved a number of significant corporate and 
operational milestones.
2013 was the Company’s first 12-month 
reporting period of full production at the 
Kounrad plant and we were pleased to have 
produced 10,509 tonnes of copper which 
exceeded our production target by over 5%. 
Further, all of the copper sold through our 
marketing agreement with Traxys was LME 
Grade A quality. 
We have maintained focus throughout the  
year on the low cost nature of our operations, 
maintaining our position within the lowest 
quartile of cash cost producers globally.
The combination of our operational strength at 
Kounrad and the resilience of the copper price 
throughout 2013, enabled the Company to 
build up significant cash balances which totalled 
$44.5 million as at 31 December 2013. 
Corporate Governance
Since the IPO in September 2010, the 
Company has sought to build on the 
governance structures and internal control 
procedures in place at that time. The Company 
is committed to upholding the highest levels of 
Corporate Governance and the Board is well 
aware that it operates in a challenging 
business environment.
We work hard to ensure that the appropriate 
level of business controls are maintained across 
the Group’s operations. A combination of 
experienced management and regular 
communications and training has led to further 
improvements across the Group since the IPO.
Nigel Hurst-Brown,  
Chairman STRATEGIC  
REPORT
GOVERNANCE 
REPORT
FINANCIAL  
STATEMENTS
CENTRAL ASIA METALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
$44.5m
Cash at bank (2012: $33.9m)
$54. 1m
Group Revenue (2012: $30.7m)
9 pence
2013 Dividend (2012: 7 pence)
In December 2013, Mr Kenges Rakishev was 
appointed to the CAML Board as a Non-
Executive Director. We are delighted to 
welcome Kenges to the Board and believe that 
his knowledge of the business environment in 
Kazakhstan and his entrepreneurial experience 
will prove of great value to the Company in 
future years.
Commitments to a sustainable 
business
Within Kazakhstan we feel we have a positive 
role to play as we develop our business.  
The Company is proud to contribute to the 
wider Kazakhstan economy through our 
business operations and plan to be there for the 
long term. The economic benefits generated for 
our local communities are significant both in 
terms of the employment opportunities and our 
social contributions.
As a responsible operator, we are also fully aware 
of our obligations to the environment and are 
committed to the sound management of our 
operating area in full compliance with the 
applicable environmental regulations and laws  
of Kazakhstan.
Strategy and Growth
Since listing, the strategy and direction of the 
business has been clear and focused on the 
delivery of the Kounrad project. The Board is 
extremely proud of what has been achieved by 
the management and staff during this period 
and the Company can justifiably say that it has 
delivered on its key promises made at the time 
of the IPO.
We are now entering an exciting period in  
the Company’s development and growth  
and are well placed to take advantage of 
opportunities that may arise in the sector  
at this stage of the economic cycle. The 
Company aims to complete the Kounrad 
Transaction in the first half of 2014, and to 
subsequently update shareholders on its plans 
to expand copper production on site. The details 
and timing of this aspect of the Company’s 
growth strategy will be announced during the 
course of 2014 as events unfold.
In addition to consolidating our business in 
Kazakhstan, the Company will be looking to 
identify attractive opportunities to expand its 
portfolio of assets in Kazakhstan and elsewhere.
Returns to Shareholders
Our strong operational performance in 2013, 
has enabled the Company to return funds to 
shareholders through its dividend policy which 
was announced in December 2012. Having 
raised $60 million at IPO in September 2010, 
the Company has already returned $21.6 million 
to shareholders through a combination of 
dividends and share buybacks.
The CAML Board will propose a final dividend 
for 2013 of 5 pence per ordinary share taking 
the total dividend for 2013 to 9 pence per 
ordinary share. This will increase the amount 
returned to existing shareholders since the 
commencement of production at Kounrad to 
$28.6 million, or 47.6% of the amount raised  
at the IPO.
It is the intention of the Board that the Group’s 
dividend policy, which is financed from the 
attributable revenue earned at Kounrad, will 
remain in place as we look to build on the 
Company’s activities and create further 
shareholder value.
Outlook
As a copper producer the Company’s fortunes 
are inextricably linked to the commodity price 
cycle over which the Board has no control. 
However, as a low cost producer, the Board is 
confident that the Company will be able to 
operate profitably even if the copper price 
should fall significantly below current levels.
Nigel Hurst-Brown
Chairman
