 CENTRAL ASIA MET ALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
6
CHAIRMAN’S ST A TEMENT
$53m
*
Total return to shareholders in 
dividends and share buy backs
12.5 pence
*
2014 dividend
* includeds proposed 2014 final dividend
Having established the Kounrad project as 
a low cost copper project in Kazakhstan, 
we now plan to increase production to 
15,000 tonnes of copper per annum by 
2016. We are also looking at expanding 
the business where we see an opportunity 
to create value for our shareholders.
Dear Shareholders
Key Achievements
It is now over four years since the Company listed on 
AIM and raised $60 million to implement its business 
plans. Thanks to the hard work, dedication and skill 
of our staff we have achieved a lot since that time 
and managed to deliver on all of our key promises to 
shareholders.
Since September 2010 we have now produced over 
30,000 tonnes of cathode copper at Kounrad at 
extremely competitive cash costs of production. The 
CAML Board intend to propose a final dividend for 
2014 of 7.5 pence per Ordinary Share taking the 
total dividend for 2014 to 12.5 pence per Ordinary 
Share subject to shareholder approval and to the 
proposed captial reduction as summarised in the 
Directors’ Report on page 38. This will take take the 
total dividend for 2014 to 12.5 pence per Ordinary 
Share. This latest dividend will increase the amount 
returned to shareholders in dividends and share buy 
backs since the listing to approximately $53 million.
In addition the Company has retained sufficient 
cash resources to fund the $35 million expansion 
programme at Kounrad. Stage 1 of this expansion 
programme will increase the SX-EW plant’s capacity 
to 15,000 tonnes per annum at a total capital cost of 
$15.5 million, inclusive of the boiler house expansion, 
whilst Stage 2 will commence on receipt of the 
relevant State approvals to enable the resource from 
the Western dumps to be leached and processed. 
The capital cost of the Stage 2 expansion is currently 
estimated at $19.5 million.
In May 2014, the Company completed the 
transaction to acquire 100% ownership of the 
Kounrad project. This was a key milestone for the 
Company and prompted the commencement 
of the expansion programme mentioned above. 
As part of the completion of the transaction, 
Mr Kenges Rakishev, a Non-Executive Director of the 
Company, also became a 20% shareholder of the 
Company. We are pleased to have such an influential 
Kazakhstani businessman as Kenges as both a Board 
member and a supportive major shareholder.
DELIVERING 
ON OUR PROMISES
Nigel Hurst-Brown 
Chairman CENTRAL ASIA MET ALS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
Strategic Report
Governance Report
Financial Statements
7
12.5p* 
9.0p*
7.0p**
Annual Dividend (pence per share)
2014
2013
2012
* includes proposed 2014 ﬁnal dividend 
** excludes special dividend of 3.7p 
In recognition of the Company’s achievements since 
the IPO, the Company was awarded ‘Best Basic 
Resources PLC’ in the UK Stock Market Awards in 
March 2014. The award was judged on the basis 
of the Company’s performance within the mining 
sector and in comparison to its peer group and other 
larger mining companies.
Corporate Governance
Dr Michael Price retired from the Board in June 
2014, having served as a Director of the Company 
since 2006. During his time with the Company, 
Mike served both as a valued independent Non-
Executive Director and as the Chairman of the 
Audit and Remuneration Committees of the Board. 
In these roles he helped lead the transition of the 
governance of the Company from the private arena 
to the public market. The rest of the Board and 
I wish to record our appreciation to Mike for his 
independent and insightful input over many years.
Following Mike’s departure the Board has been 
strengthened by the appointment of David Swan 
in June 2014 as an independent Non-Executive 
Director of the Company and Chairman of the Audit 
Committee. David is a chartered accountant with 
broad commercial experience across a range of small 
to large companies. We are delighted to welcome 
David to the Board and believe he will provide great 
value to the Group as we continue developing 
CAML’s controls and procedures.
The Company is committed to improving corporate 
governance wherever it can and the Board is well 
aware of the importance of maintaining strong 
controls and procedures across the Group’s 
operations.
Strategy and Growth
Kazakhstan
The Company has an established presence in 
Kazakhstan and since the commencement of 
operations at Kounrad, has paid almost $50 million 
in various taxes to the Kazakhstan authorities, 
contributed close to $690,000 towards the local 
community and currently employs approximately 
330 staff on site, the majority of whom have been 
recruited locally.
The Company is keen to grow its business and 
reputation in Kazakhstan and the expansion 
of operations at Kounrad is testament to this 
goal. As a responsible operator, we place the 
highest priority on our obligations to protect the 
environment in the area of our copper recovery 
operations and to comply with the applicable 
health and safety regulations of Kazakhstan.
Alongside the main copper production facilities at 
Kounrad, the Company has established a business 
development focus within Kazakhstan which is 
tasked with seeking out additional opportunities.
Outside of Kazakhstan
Elsewhere, based on our strong financial position 
and technical experience, the Group is keen 
to consider other business opportunities. Such 
opportunities will only be actively pursued by 
management so long as they can be suitably 
incorporated into CAML and would add significant 
shareholder value.
In determining this, the management team will 
consider a number of factors from the strategic 
fit within the Group’s operations to the funding 
requirements and overall impact on Group 
profitability. To support our business development 
activities we were delighted to appoint Gavin 
Ferrar as our Business Development Director in 
June 2014. Gavin brings with him a wealth of 
commercial experience in the natural resources 
sector and will be a valuable member of the 
CAML team.
Outlook
During 2014, the copper price came under 
pressure due to increasing supply and continued 
concerns over the outlook for the growth of the 
Chinese economy. These price pressures became 
particularly acute in January 2015 when the price 
fell to a five and a half year low.
Whilst the current commodity price environment 
provides a challenge to all copper producers from 
which CAML is not immune, our low operating 
cash costs of production at Kounrad places us in an 
enviable position compared to our peers.
Nigel Hurst-Brown
Chairman
