 10 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2014
During 2014, CentralNic was transformed from a company
with one line of business, to having three profitable divisions
in the domain name industry – registry, registrar and
enterprise solutions. CentralNic also emerged in 2014
as an early global leader in new Top-Level Domains –
the largest restructuring of the internet to date.
Ben Crawford  Chief Executive
Performance overview
CentralNic has made significant progress in 2014. Billings
were £9.89 million, representing a 154% increase on 2013;
revenues were up 99% to £6.07 million, and Adjusted EBITDA
of £1.72 million was achieved – an increase of 70% over 2013.
This growth is the result of our threefold strategy: firstly as a
wholesaler, launching our first eight TLDs together with
continued growth in our legacy domains business. Secondly, we
acquired the trade of domain retailer Internet.bs and launched
seven additional retail websites – adding retail revenues and
profits. And thirdly, our enterprise division started successfully
trading in premium domain names and offering consulting
services, also contributing both revenues and profits in its
first year of trading.
At the end of a year of launches, investments and acquisitions, the
Group had cash balances of £3.06 million (2013: £4.93 million).
New top-level domains
2014 witnessed the earliest launch stages of what the internet
industry regulator ICANN called “the biggest change since the
inception of the internet,” with the introduction of the new gTLD
programme, allowing new entrants to join the ranks of .com,
.org, and .net. Only a small number of retailers received their
accreditations from ICANN to sell domains under the new TLDs
in 2014, and a lack of public awareness pending the launches
of the “superbrand TLDs” such as .google, .apple and .sony,
meant that the market for new TLDs in 2014 was softer than
had been projected by ICANN and other industry experts. It was
essentially limited to domain investors and other early adopters.
However, CentralNic fared exceptionally well with the TLDs
contracted exclusively to use our technical and billing platform.
The eight new TLDs we launched represented less than 2% of
the total number of top level domains launched, yet we achieved
and maintained the ranking of the world’s Number Two new TLD
registry provider by total number of registrations with almost 20%
global market share. We are also pleased to rank as the world’s
Number One for the highest number of active retailers for any
one TLD. CentralNic’s client .xyz is the TLD with the overall
highest number of registrations, based on an aggressive global
sales and marketing campaign supported by CentralNic.
Business development
When CentralNic listed on the AIM market in 2013 our clearly
stated objective was to accelerate our growth by focussing on
the full gamut of revenue opportunities in the domain industry,
and not relying solely on the new Top-Level Domains already
Chief Executive’s report CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2014 11
contracted with us. Considerable progress was made in 2014
in realising those objectives:
1. Adding new domains to our inventory
When CentralNic listed, its expectations were to obtain
distribution contracts for an additional five domain extensions
over the ensuing two years. This objective was actually met by
April 2014 with .co.com, .website, .press, .space and .host,
and we have now been awarded a further eleven exclusive TLD
contracts: .coop, .design, .fan, .forum, .love, .online, .realty,
.rent, .site, .tech and .tickets – all expected to launch in 2015
and 2016. CentralNic is also an investor in Accent Media Ltd
which holds the exclusive rights to the .tickets TLD, which will
have an exposure to actual ticketing revenue as it bundles
ticket vending software with a domain name.
Today, in my opinion the portfolio of new TLDs available via
CentralNic is second to none, and we hope to augment the
portfolio further by converting additional opportunities from
our sales pipeline.
2. Increasing our global retail market coverage
While relatively few retailers are actively selling domains using new
TLDs at this stage, CentralNic is efficiently engaging with those
that are already part of our global network, and on-boarding those
that are not – working with our partners to become a clear leader
in the industry, as measured by the metric “highest number of
retailers for an individual TLD.” China continues to be CentralNic’s
fastest growing geographic market, with other emerging markets
also presenting a key focus for our growth.
3. Entering the retail marketplace ourselves
CentralNic was one of the earliest adopters of vertical integration
in the domain industry in 2014 when it joined the ranks of the
world’s top thirty domain name retailers by acquiring the trade of
registrar Internet.bs (“IBS”), serving customers from 200 countries
in eight languages; and at the same time it launched seven
“flagship store” websites, each retailing domain names targeted
at a single territory or industry vertical (such as domains.asia and
buydomains.london; domain.luxury and domain.bar).
4. Engaging with growth markets
CentralNic has identified two key growth markets, and is
engaging with both.
The first is the enterprise market: with around 400 global
corporations which have applied to obtain their own brands as
Top-Level Domains, and thousands more starting to focus on
the challenges and opportunities presented by an increasingly
complex and important Domain Name System, CentralNic is
selling a suite of software and services to an increasing number
of telcos, banks, and media and entertainment businesses,
both at Global 1000 level and below.
Secondly, CentralNic is focussed on developing economies
including China and countries in the MENA region. As both
telecoms companies and major internet infrastructure providers
work to deliver internet access to “the next five billion” internet
users, CentralNic is attuned to the resulting new opportunities to
assist businesses in those territories to acquire domain names
and get their businesses online to serve their rapidly expanding
local and international markets.
Outlook
CentralNic is on a continuing rapid growth trajectory. Having
doubled revenues and increased Adjusted EBITDA by 70%
in 2014, our strategy is working and we continue to move
forward accordingly.
Though 2014 marked a slow start to the roll-out of new Top-Level
Domains, CentralNic’s clients accounted for one in five of all new
TLD domains registered – and that was with only the first eight of
our TLDs launched. CentralNic has another eighteen TLDs
already confirmed for retail distribution, including those widely
predicted to be the future bestsellers: such as .design and
.online. Plus we have a healthy pipeline of future opportunities.
Moreover, with so much new product to take to market, it is a
great time to be a domain name retailer, and CentralNic’s retail
division expects continued growth in its chosen markets.
Finally, CentralNic’s focus on large corporations and government
contracts makes us part of the two leading growth drivers of
the domain industry – enterprises entering the domain industry
and developing world Governments supporting the expected
rapid expansion in mobile-enabled internet use to enable
economic development.
In 2014, CentralNic demonstrated the ability to launch new
businesses, win new service contracts and successfully
integrate new acquisitions. We are confident in our ability to
use these same strategies to meet our commercial objectives
in the years to come.
Ben Crawford Chief Executive Officer
28 April 2015
