 In 2014 the Group has successfully transitioned its business to
offering a range of domain-related services as a wholesaler,
retailer and supplier to enterprise customers. This provides the
Group with multiple opportunities in the domain name supply
chain at a time of considerable change within the industry.
John Swingewood Chairman
2014 has been a very good year for the Group, successfully
acquiring and investing in exciting new business opportunities.
The Group also invested in strengthening the leadership
capabilities within the business. For these reasons, the Group
is well positioned to take advantage of the new TLD market as
it develops, and I am extremely pleased with our strategic
progress during the year.
In 2014 the roll out of the new Top-Level Domains gathered pace,
with approaching 500 new domain extensions having launched
by the end of the year. The Group successfully launched 8 new
domains during the year, including the programme’s highest
volume domain .xyz, resulting in CentralNic taking a leading
position among the world’s domain registry service providers.
In parallel to this activity, the Group’s existing portfolio of Second
Level Domains continued to exhibit revenue growth which was
pleasing in the context of new competition in the market. Overall
our registry business continues to grow profitably, enabling us
to invest in developing our other business lines.
As highlighted in the previous year, our strategy includes
investing in opportunities within the domain name industry. In
2014 we acquired the retail trade of Internet BS and a minority
equity stake in Accent Media, the successful applicant for the
much sought-after .tickets new Top-Level Domain. Both present
very promising earnings-enhancing opportunities.
Performance
I am pleased to report that the Group’s financial performance
was in line with expectations, growing revenues and Adjusted
EBITDA whilst also investing to expand the scope of the
Group’s business activities.
The Group’s net revenue grew by nearly 100%, reflecting steady
organic growth in the registry business, a half year of revenues
from our acquired retail business and trading valuable premium
domain names on the aftermarket, a new venture for the Group.
It was encouraging to see net revenue from our registry
business (wholesale) growing to £2.8m, an increase of 8% over
the prior year (2013: £2.6m). Growth included early revenues
from the new top level domains combined with steady
performance from CentralNic’s legacy portfolio of Second-Level
Domain extensions (including the likes of .uk.com, .us.com
and .cn.com) and country codes like .LA and .PW.
CentralNic invested during the year, acquiring the Internet.BS
registrar in June for a total consideration of up to US$7.5m.
This marked a significant entry into the retail market for the Group,
seeking the benefits of vertical integration within the domain
name supply chain. As a result, the Group’s retail activities
contributed £1.6m of net revenues during the second half of
the year in line with the business case. A second significant
Chairman’s statement
8 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2014 CentralNic Group Plc Annual Report 2014 9
investment was acquiring a 12% equity stake in Accent Media
Limited for US$1.6m in September. Accent Media is the
successful applicant for the .tickets new Top-Level Domain,
which is scheduled to launch in 2015.
Other new activities launched during the year included an
enterprise division focussed on providing domains, domain related
software and services to the corporate market. This division
includes a premium domains business which began trading in the
second half of the year, selling domains from the Group’s portfolio
to contribute £1.6m to Group net revenues. The remaining
enterprise business closed the year in the pre-revenue phase,
although indications are promising for the future.
The Group also continued its investment programme during the
year, expanding its resources to grow its in-house registrar
business and commence the enterprise business as well as
further strengthening the Board and the management team.
Despite these additional operating costs, the Group delivered
Adjusted EBITDA of £1.72m (2013: £1.02m) and net cashflow
from operating activities of £1.41m (2013: £1.13m)
Dividend
It remains the Directors intention to recommend payment of a
dividend when appropriate and commercially prudent to do so.
While it is the intention of the Group to generate income returns
for investors in the future as part of a progressive dividend
policy, due to the continued expansion opportunities within the
sector the Directors do not propose a final dividend in 2014.
Outlook
The Group is strongly placed to benefit from the re-organisation
of the internet namespace, with access to earnings from
domains as both a wholesaler and retailer in the primary markets
and as a broker in the secondary market. Furthermore, the
Group is exposed to both developed and emerging economies,
being active in those markets either directly or via the Group’s
extensive distribution channel. With the world’s internet users
estimated at 3.1bn, there is still more than half of the global
population who are yet to get online. As such, continuing
sustained growth in the world’s internet users presents us
with considerable opportunity.
It is fair to say that current demand for the new Top-Level
Domains is still at a very early stage, reflecting only the
beginnings of consumer awareness to the choices available
when seeking to purchase domain names. Awareness should
grow in 2015 with an increased retail footprint and the expected
launch and promotion of new Top-Level Domains by the
so-called “super-brands”. This has potential to stimulate growth
for alternative TLDs and that will benefit the Group – whether
this be via the Group’s proprietary Second Level Domains or via
the new Top-Level Domains serviced on behalf of clients. Since
the end of 2014, the Group has started to launch four more
TLDs and has a minimum of 22 further new Top-Level Domains
yet to launch, with the majority expected to start earning
revenues in 2015. Plus the business continues to secure new
TLD clients, converting from a healthy pipeline.
The registrar business also presents considerable opportunities
in terms of diversifying the revenue streams into other
value-added services. Work is under way to broaden the
Group’s retail offerings with a view to delivering a more
comprehensive set of services for consumers seeking to
deploy their online presence.
Demand for domain names and related services from
Corporates is also a market segment presenting considerable
opportunity. The Group has built out the solutions it can offer to
this enterprise segment, whether this be via the proprietary
Domain Management software (DomiNIC) and related domain
portfolio services or via consultancy offerings to Corporates who
themselves applied for their own .brand Top-Level Domain.
Coupled with Corporate demand for premium domain names
the Group is able to present comprehensive solutions for the
Corporate segment of the market.
I would like to thank CentralNic’s personnel for their professionalism
and commitment to the ongoing development of the business in
what has been a period of considerable progress for the Group.
It is thanks to them, working in tandem with our clients and our
distribution channel partners, that we continue to enhance our
industry leading position and reputation.
John Swingewood Chairman
28 April 2015
