 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
06
Chief Executive’s Review
Directors’ Report – Business Review p05 Directors’ Report – Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113
Overview of 2006
Against a backdrop of unprecedented
volatility Centrica produced a solid set of
financial results. During the year the UK
experienced large fluctuations in wholesale
gas costs, particularly in the first quarter
when cold weather and fear of shortages
pushed the wholesale gas price to 250
pence per therm (p/therm). The six main
energy suppliers struggled to keep up with
this rate of rise in commodity costs and
implemented 13 separate tariff increases
during the first 10 months of the year.
Supply fears subsided in the second half
of the year as good progress was made
with the construction of the Langeled 
and BBL pipelines, both of which were
underpinned by British Gas contracts, 
and wholesale gas prices started to fall. 
The high wholesale prices in the first half
of the year materially impacted the supply
businesses. British Gas Residential made
a significant loss* in the first six months 
of the year and stubbornly high forward
wholesale prices forced us to follow other
suppliers in increasing retail prices for a
second time in September. The quantity
and magnitude of tariff increases across 
all suppliers hit consumer sentiment 
and resulted in high levels of customer
switching. Despite continuing to launch
innovative products, including the very
successful Fix and Fall offering, British Gas
lost 1,029,000 energy accounts during 
the year. The tariff increase in September
returned the business to profit* in the
second half of the year. Once the outlook
for wholesale prices became clearer
British Gas took the lead in announcing
a price reduction to residential customers
of 17% in gas and 11% in electricity,
effective from 12 March 2007. 
British Gas Business delivered further
customer growth and record profits* despite
the extremely challenging commodity
environment in the first half of the year.
British Gas Services suffered a difficult
start to the year due to the exceptionally
cold weather driving higher call outs.
However the business finished the 
year strongly as the changes we 
made to systems, management and
processes improved both operational 
and service measures.
Operationally the gas production
business performed well but production
volumes were restricted by maintenance
work during an extended summer outage
at the South Morecambe field and
management’s decision not to produce
from the field for a large portion of the
second half as a result of falling wholesale
prices and weak demand due to the
unusually warm weather. This fall in prices
at the end of the year greatly improved 
the ongoing position of the industrial and
commercial legacy contracts which were
significantly loss-making* overall during 
the year.
Centrica Storage had a challenging year.
In February 2006 a catastrophic failure 
and fire at the Rough storage field halted
operations. However an exceptional effort 
by the team delivered reliable injection 
in time to refill the field before the start 
of the winter production season, enabling
the asset to deliver another strong
financial result.
In North America, Direct Energy 
had another year of record figures with
turnover up 15% primarily due to strong
growth in business markets and Texas.
The Texas operation performed particularly
well, providing a large portion of the 21%
overall increase in North American profit*.
This was due particularly to improved
results in both the organic business, 
as it gained scale, and the incumbent
business, as the competitive market
structure, combined with our effective
procurement, enabled us to implement
proactive discounted price offerings to
customers. Despite this strong overall
growth, as part of a continual review of the
efficiency of the business, decisive action
was taken to reduce costs. This resulted
Financially, the business performed well in a difficult year. While good progress 
is being made there is further work to be done to improve the British Gas service
levels, reduce our cost base and develop our services, energy efficiency and
international businesses.
Delivering our strategy
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
We are focusing firmly on
the priority of reducing
exposure to short-term
movements in the
wholesale gas price.
“
” Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
07
Directors’ Report – Business Review p05 Directors’ Report – Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113
in 450 job losses during the year, 9% of
the total, primarily in Canada and in US
home services. 
The European business made
considerable progress as, overall, it moved
firmly into profit*. However the ongoing
negotiations between major companies 
in France, Spain and Holland provided
evidence of continued support within
European Union member states for
consolidation and the formation of national
champions ahead of the existence of 
full competition. 
The year ended on a tragic note with a
helicopter accident in the Morecambe Bay
area which claimed the lives of six people,
four of them long-standing and highly
committed Centrica employees with a
seventh person still missing, presumed
dead. Our thoughts are with all of their
families and friends. Centrica regards 
safety as a top priority, and is committed 
to providing a healthy and safe environment
for employees and the communities which
it touches. We have a range of appropriate
controls in place and these are subject to
regular review by the Board.
Business outlook
Since taking over from Sir Roy Gardner 
as the Chief Executive of Centrica in July 
of 2006, I have spent a large part of my 
first six months assessing the strengths 
and weaknesses of the business and 
the priorities going forward. My initial
observations are that the core businesses
remain strong and we are in an enviable
position in most of our chosen markets,
with good growth being achieved
internationally, particularly in North America.
In addition, after a difficult few years, the
wholesale pricing environment is starting to
improve. However it is clear that the returns
in our residential business in the UK have
been low and that we have proven to 
be overly exposed to the rapidly rising
wholesale cost of the commodities which
we supply to our customers. We have also
suffered dual running costs and delivered
less than satisfactory customer service as
we have moved to a new billing platform 
in British Gas, the efficacy and robustness
of which is still in the proving stage.
We will now seek to build on our
strengths, remove the weaknesses and
overcome the challenges. To do this
I have set out some clear priorities for 
the Company: 
Transform British Gas
Sharpen up the organisation and 
reduce costs 
Reduce risk by adding new sources of
gas and power
Build on our multiple growth platforms
We made some progress on this agenda
during the second half of the year. The
price increase in British Gas Residential
announced in July was followed later in
the year by a softening in wholesale gas
and power prices; this has returned this
business to profit* and allowed us to be
the first company to offer customers a
price reduction, announced in February.
We also launched our Essentials Tariff to
provide protection to our most vulnerable
customers. The service levels in our British
Gas Services business have shown a
significant improvement and our attention
is now firmly focused on service levels in
the residential business. 
We carried out an initial review of the
costs and processes in our business. As 
a result we took an exceptional non-cash
charge of £196 million which reflects the
write-down of our IT systems. We also took
an exceptional cash charge of £87 million
for the initial restructure of parts of the
corporate centre, British Gas Residential
and British Gas Services resulting in around
1,550 job losses. Together these charges
reduce ongoing costs with around 
£50 million saved in 2007. 
Our progress to date leaves me
optimistic for 2007. We will continue to
review the structure of our business and
put in place internal operational metrics
which will identify and drive further
efficiencies. British Gas Residential is 
on track to return to a more sustainable
operating margin* and to arrest the decline
in customer numbers assisted by the price
reduction, improving customer service and
ongoing innovation in our product offerings.
We are also focusing firmly on the
priority of reducing the exposure to short-
term movements in the wholesale gas
price. We continue to expect this to be
achieved through a mixture of upstream
asset acquisitions and contractual
arrangements. We will leverage Centrica’s
unique market position on both sides 
of the Atlantic to secure liquefied natural
gas for our customers and offer security 
of demand for producers.
In Centrica Energy we expect gas
production levels to be broadly flat on
2006. We renegotiated the terms of the
inter-company sales contracts on the
South and North Morecambe gas fields,
with the agreement of HM Revenue and
Customs, to establish a direct link to
month-ahead gas prices. We will also
commission the Maria, Thurne and 
Davy East fields. The industrial and
commercial contracts are forecast to
become profitable* as a result of lower
wholesale prices.
We expect to see further growth in British
Gas Business which is also benefiting from
the fall in wholesale prices and is retaining
strong customer renewal and loyalty
levels. In British Gas Services we expect
the investment we have made in new
systems, management and processes 
to deliver significantly improved financial
performance in 2007. In North America we
expect to continue to grow both revenue
and profit*, with further load growth in
business markets focused primarily 
in the northeastern United States and
increased profit* contribution from our
energy wholesale and trading activities.
Further expansion in continental Europe
remains an important element of our
growth plans. However while welcoming
the conclusions of the European
Commission’s Energy Review, that market
mechanisms need to be put in place to
encourage greater competition, we remain
cautious about the potential for making
further material inroads in the short term.
The recent publication of the Stern
report was significant in the development
of climate change policy in the UK.
Climate change is probably the most
significant environmental issue facing
current and future generations. Accordingly,
there is clear evidence that slowing or
stabilising global warming is taking on
greater importance for governments,
companies and consumers alike. While
Centrica already has the lowest carbon
intensity profile of the major UK power
suppliers we will continue to expand
our investments in the area of renewable
energy and promote the use of energy-
efficient technology by consumers. We 
will also capitalise on our unique expertise
and capability to deliver energy efficiency
advice, services and products to both 
our business and residential customers.
I expect 2007 to be an important year in
Centrica’s development. Although some of
our priorities will take longer to deliver fully,
I anticipate making real progress during
this year and delivering a step up in the
performance of the business.
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
22 February 2007
*
including joint ventures and associates stated net of
interest and taxation, and before exceptional items
and certain re-measurements.
