 Performance review
We achieved good underlying financial
performance despite the particularly
challenging circumstances which prevailed
throughout the year. 
In the winter of 2005/06 gas shortages
in the UK and increasing worldwide
demand for energy drove wholesale 
prices to record levels necessitating 
price increases to many of our customers.
The management team worked hard to
minimise the effect of these increases by
containing operating costs and developing
innovative products designed to protect
customers and preserve loyalty in
increasingly competitive markets.
Regrettably, despite these actions, we
lost one million residential energy accounts
during the year. British Gas Residential
returned to profit* by the end of the year
which, together with continued good
delivery in gas production, strong growth
in North America and the lower tax
charge, enabled the Group overall to
deliver sound earnings* growth.
The high commodity prices in the first
half of the year held up the price of assets
and the Board continued to exercise
financial discipline and invest only in
additional sources of supply where 
returns met our rigorous financial hurdles. 
In the latter part of the year, there was 
a fundamental change in the UK energy
market. New gas supply pipelines from
Norway and Holland, whose construction
was made possible by long-term
contracts entered into by British Gas, came
on-stream at a time when the country was
experiencing the warmest autumn since
records began. This change in the balance
of supply and demand, combined with a
fall in global oil prices, reversed previous
wholesale gas price trends. This enabled
British Gas to announce price reductions
from March 2007 when a portion of the
more expensive gas supplies to which we
are already committed will be exhausted.
Looking forward, it is our intention to strike
a fair balance between lower prices and
sustainable profits* in order to reward both
our customers and shareholders.
Returns to shareholders
The Board is proposing a final dividend of
8.0 pence (2005: 7.4 pence) for payment
in June 2007 bringing our full-year dividend
to 11.15 pence (2005: 10.5 pence). This
represents a 6% year-on-year increase, 
in line with our policy and commitment to
real growth in the ordinary dividend. As we
become more confident in the sustainability
of more benign market conditions, we will
be able to consider the reinstatement of
our share buyback programme should
surplus funds permit.
Corporate governance
Our reporting has always been open 
and transparent, and this year we have
refined our approach to include the 
latest EU legislative requirements. We
have integrated the key aspects of our
corporate responsibility performance 
within our Business Review (formerly the
Operating and Financial Review). Also in
the Business Review is a section on the
KPIs that the Board uses to measure
progress against strategy, as well as a
section on the main risks facing the Group.
Board changes
Sir Roy Gardner retired at the end of 
June. We are grateful to him for his
material contribution and commitment,
having led Centrica through a decade 
of considerable change. 
In July, Sam Laidlaw was appointed Chief
Executive of the Company bringing with 
him considerable experience in managing
and developing large scale international
energy businesses. Since taking up the
appointment he has made real progress 
in developing the long-term vision for the
Group and in sharpening the immediate
focus on improving the current performance
and efficiency of the organisation. 
Chairman’s Statement
It is our intention to strike a fair balance between lower prices and sustainable
profits* in order to reward both our customers and shareholders.
Securing shareholder value
Roger Carr
Chairman
I look forward to 2007
with confidence in both
our business model and
the management team. 
“
”
Directors’ Report – Business Review p05 Directors’ Report – Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
03
*
including joint ventures and associates stated net of
interest and taxation, and before exceptional items
and certain re-measurements. Mark Clare left the Company in the
summer to take up an appointment
outside the industry, having made an
important contribution to the Group both
as Finance Director and, more recently,
Managing Director of British Gas
Residential. Patricia Mann OBE retired
from the Group after nine years valuable
service on the Board and her role of
Senior Non-Executive Director was
assumed by Mary Francis CBE. Sadly
Patricia died later in the year having
bravely fought a long-term illness. 
Phil Bentley who has ably served as
Finance Director and Managing Director,
Europe will move to the role of Managing
Director, British Gas following the
appointment of Nick Luff as Group
Finance Director. Nick brings with him
significant commercial experience. 
Jake Ulrich has taken on responsibility 
for the continental European operations.
At the beginning of the year we
established a main board committee to
lead our corporate responsibility strategy.
This is chaired by Mary Francis CBE and
includes the managing directors of each
business unit. 
I am confident that this new team will
bring renewed vigour and commitment 
to the successful development of Centrica
in the years ahead.
Our employees
Our employees worked particularly hard
throughout 2006 as they responded to 
the unusually demanding environment.
External pressures arising from turbulence
in the energy market were magnified by
the degree of change in systems, working
practices, organisation and management
within the Company and I thank them all
for their loyalty, hard work and dedication.
The upstream team once again made 
a material contribution to our financial
performance and demonstrated their
absolute professionalism in both the
operation of our offshore facilities and 
the rapid recovery of our Rough storage
platform following a fire earlier in the year.
Tragically the risks of working offshore
were again made evident when six people,
four of them Centrica employees, were
killed in a helicopter accident in Morecambe
Bay at Christmas with a seventh person 
still missing, presumed dead. Our thoughts
and deepest sympathies are with their
families and our thanks go to all the
employees who continue to help fulfil 
the UK’s energy needs under arduous 
and challenging conditions.
The future
We are entering 2007 under new
leadership but with continued commitment
to the twin goals of customer service 
and shareholder value creation. Lower
wholesale energy prices have provided 
us with the opportunity to reduce retail
prices and we expect the completion of
new systems to help address the service
levels. We will also continue our search for
cost-effective supply sources to rebalance
our market exposure and sharpen our
competitive edge. 
Our investment programme will be
driven by value and our cost structure 
will be the focus of continued stringent
appraisal. Innovation will be key to our
marketing effort and the application of 
our skills and service network to meet 
the growing consumer demand for 
energy efficiency will be at the heart of 
our endeavours. I look forward to 2007
with confidence in both our business
model and the management team.
Roger Carr
Chairman
22 February 2007
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006
04
Chairman’s Statement continued
Directors’ Report – Business Review p05 Directors’ Report – Governance p27 Financial Statements p43 Shareholder Information p113
