 Chief Executive’s
Review
08
Delivering our strategy
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Centrica delivered a very strong set of financial results during 
this, my first full year as Chief Executive. We moved the structure 
and operational performance of the business forwards, but we 
still have some way to go.
2007 was a year of two very different halves. In the first half,
wholesale energy prices in the UK were low as a result of increased
supply (through new gas pipelines and liquefied natural gas 
(LNG) facilities) and reduced demand due to warm weather. 
Over two-thirds of our earnings were delivered in this period.
During the second six months, the day ahead wholesale gas 
price was, on average, 56% higher than during the first half. This
significantly reduced margins in our UK residential business. And,
unfortunately, these relatively high wholesale prices have persisted
in the first few months of 2008, necessitating a retail price increase.
Centrica operates in a complex, global and constantly changing
industry that is facing some profound long-term challenges.
Environmental issues will increasingly influence the shape of the
industry. T ougher targets on reducing energy consumption and
cutting greenhouse gases are likely to be implemented worldwide,
and these will push up the price of energy. 
The cost of developing new upstream resources in the UK has 
risen by 80% since 2000, and growth in demand for fossil fuels
from countries such as China and India is also driving a long-term
structural movement towards higher prices. We estimate that 
by 2015 around 75% of the UK’ s total annual gas demand 
could be being met by imports, compared to about 20% in 2007.
Increasing reliance on imports means that the UK, and Centrica, 
will not be cushioned from the impact of global market movements, 
either in terms of price fluctuation or security of supply.
Against this background, our strategy is to create an integrated
energy company, operating upstream by developing new sources 
of gas and power, and downstream with our strong brands and
innovative propositions, to succeed in our chosen markets.
Downstream
The UK gas market is the biggest in Europe. We are the largest
energy supplier in the UK and at the end of 2007 British Gas
Residential once again supplied 16 million customers. British Gas
Services is the largest central heating and gas appliance installation
and maintenance company in the UK, directly employing more than
9,000 engineers. British Gas is the country’ s best-recognised
energy brand. It is also one of the greenest, according to WWF 
and has the lowest carbon intensity* of all major suppliers. We are
one of the UK’ s largest producers and suppliers of wind energy and 
in April we set up British Gas New Energy to expand our offer in 
low-carbon products and services.
In our North American markets, we had over 5 million customers 
at the end of 2007. The combined volume of demand for our 
gas in Canada, the US and Europe will help us to do deals with
large-scale suppliers of LNG worldwide. 
Our experience of deregulated markets in the UK and North America
will also stand us in good stead when European energy markets
finally open up to competition. The European Commission published
proposals in September for the unbundling of electricity and gas
generation and transmission networks across the European Union.
When implemented, these should increase competition in Europe.
But it hasn’t happened yet. 
Upstream
Upstream, we have a strong and increasingly diverse portfolio of
long-term contracts for gas supplies to the UK from the North Sea,
Norway and the Netherlands, as well as our own production. 
These include our Morecambe gas fields, and interests in over 
20 southern North Sea gas fields, including those acquired from
Newfield UK Holdings Limited in October.
From October 2008, we will have LNG import capacity at the 
Isle of Grain which will be able to supply about 6% of Centrica’ s
annual gas demand. We are building our eighth gas-fired power station
(in Devon) and two wind farms off the Lincolnshire coast which will
have a combined capacity of 180MW. We have interests in three
operational wind farms which provide access to188MW of renewable
electricity and we are seeking consent for a further 250MW farm.
Internationally, offices are now established in Nigeria and Norway
following the award of exploration and production licence blocks. 
In 2007 we also acquired further exploration blocks in Norway and
Trinidad. Direct Energy bid for Rockyview Energy Inc, an Alberta-
based oil and gas company, completing the deal in early 2008.
Centrica has four strategic priorities that underpin how we run the
business. Over the next four pages I will explain what these mean
and how we have performed against them this year.
2007 was a year of
substantial achievement 
for Centrica during which 
we made further progress 
on addressing the key 
priorities for the business.
*carbon intensity is the amount of carbon dioxide emitted per unit of electricity produced Lower prices and better service 
led to an increase in the number 
of customers. This, combined with
a fall in commodity prices in the
first six months, meant we delivered
an excellent financial result.
09
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Transforming British Gas is a priority because profitability and
service levels at British Gas Residential, which is the core 
of our business, have historically been low and variable. 
The transformation aims to:
3 improve our price competitiveness, service levels and product
offer in order to reverse the decline in customer numbers;
3 reduce our costs through ‘best-in-class’ efficiency and
productivity while ensuring that we remain a great place to work;
and 
3 achieve long-term margins of 6-7%.
Progress
We led the industry in reducing prices, cutting them twice during 2007 .
In March and April our tariffs were cut by a total of 1 7% in electricity
and by 20% in gas. We also provided the lowest dual fuel tariff through
our online Click Energy offer. However, because of sharply rising
wholesale energy prices during the second half of 2007 and
continuing into 2008, we were left with no alternative but to increase
retail tariffs in January 2008. Although this was disappointing, retail
prices were still lower when compared to January 2007. The1 5%
increase will help us to re-establish the profit margin we need to
invest in the core energy assets that will provide sustainable
long-term earnings.
Having completed the migration of all our customers to our new
billing system by March, we concentrated on improving the service
that had suffered during the migration process. Service levels
improved significantly. For example, our speed to answer the
telephone improved by almost 75% from the highest point in 
April and we eliminated the entire correspondence backlog.
As a result, we saw fewer complaints and customer losses. 
By December 2007, complaints to energywatch had fallen by 80%
since April and contacts to energywatch are now at their lowest
level since January 2006 when we began to move our customers to
a new billing system. Customer churn has also fallen sharply, and the
number of energy accounts grew by around15,000 during the year.
We continued to reduce operating costs within British Gas compared
to 2006. This, combined with a fall in commodity prices in the 
first six months, meant we delivered an excellent operating profit* 
for the year.
* including joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation, 
and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements
Transform British Gas
British Gas Residential 
customer accounts
3 We led the industry in reducing prices in 2007
3 We significantly improved our service levels
3 We reduced our operating costs by £139 million
British Gas Residential customer accounts in 2007 (m)
16.1
16.0
15.9
15.8
15.7
Jan Mar Feb Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Chief Executive’s
Review
continued
10
Delivering our strategy
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Sharpen the organisation 
and reduce costs
Changes to the organisation 
of the Group have improved
accountability and increased
business discipline.
cost savings achieved
in BGR in 2007
If we are to compete domestically and internationally in the long term,
we need to do what we do better, and at lower cost.
We need to upgrade our skills, increase our business discipline 
and accountability, and materially reduce costs in each business unit
and at the centre.
Progress
Over the past year we have strengthened our executive team with
several key appointments, including a new Group Finance Director
and a new Managing Director for British Gas, and we have
transferred responsibility for our European businesses to the
Managing Director of Centrica Energy. 
We have also focused on the structure of our operating businesses.
Recent initiatives include the separation of power generation in
Centrica Energy to form a line of accountability for our UK power
segment. In North America we introduced a new structure with 
the creation of four business units on functional rather than
geographic lines. 
We have also created three separate profit centres within British Gas
Residential (BGR) to better reflect different customer groups. 
The new units have different objectives and propositions, and a
management structure designed to enhance accountability.
Business discipline has been improved through the introduction 
of systematic quarterly cost reviews of each business unit, a tighter
capital allocation framework, and a new three-year planning horizon
to focus performance.
And we have reduced costs significantly. For example, the
restructuring of British Gas Services has removed £20 million 
of cost a year, and BGR is on track to deliver its £200 million cost
reduction target. Some £139 million of cost savings were achieved
in BGR in 2007 with the balance to be achieved in 2008. During the
year we moved 2,250 back-office jobs to India and rationalised the
corporate centre. This included outsourcing a number of support
services including many of the central finance, information system
and human resource functions.
1,000
862
939
800
04 05 06 07
British Gas Residential
operating expenditure (£m)
3 We have strengthened our executive team
3 We have introduced new structures for our businesses 
in Direct Energy and in British Gas Residential
3 We have reduced costs across the Group 11
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
We want to produce more of the energy that we sell. In the UK we
are able to supply around 25% of our gas requirements and around
67% of our peak electricity requirements from our own resources or
major contracts. The remainder has to be purchased in notoriously
volatile wholesale markets.
We aim to build a profitable UK upstream business to be able to
supply 50% of our gas needs. Our target is to have 35% of our 
retail load supplied from production capacity we own, and 15% 
from new long-term contracts. 
Progress
In October 2007 we bought Newfield UK Holdings Limited 
for £242 million. This brought us a producing gas field, two
development prospects and interests in six licences with the
potential to add around 300 billion cubic feet (bcf) of gas reserves 
in the North Sea. The location of the fields also offers synergies 
with our retail businesses in western Europe, with gas from one 
of the fields delivered in the Netherlands. We added a further 43bcf
of gas reserves by acquiring Rockyview Energy Inc in Alberta,
announced in November and completed in February 2008.
We also acquired interests in licences in Norway and Trinidad
bringing our total at the end of the year to19. From the winter 
of 2010/1 1 , we will have access to a further 2.4 billion cubic metres
(BCM) of LNG import capacity at the Isle of Grain terminal in
addition to the 3.4BCM we have available from October 2008.
Construction continues on our 885MW power station at Langage 
in Devon which will increase our UK generation capacity to over
5GW. It will come online early in 2009. We have also continued to
invest in wind generation capacity. We acquired a 50% share in 
the Braes of Doune wind farm in Stirlingshire in July and concluded
a new170MW power purchase agreement in T exas that brings to
813MW our total power offtake from T exas wind farms. Construction
work started on the180MW Lynn and Inner Dowsing farms off the
coast of Lincolnshire. Lynn and Inner Dowsing is currently the
world’ s largest offshore wind construction project and first power 
is due towards the end of 2008. 
Overall we have 430MW of offshore wind projects in construction 
or early planning stages, which will keep us at the forefront of
renewable generation.
Reduce risk through integration
We made some important progress
during the year, though not as
much as we had hoped for.
planned annual upstream 
investment 2007 to 2010
3 We bought Newfield UK Holdings Limited
3 We acquired exploration opportunities in the UK, Norway and Trinidad
3 We continued to invest in renewable generation capacity
3 We are building a new gas-fired power station in Devon
Centrica’s UK electricity generation (MW)
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
0 Jan 01 Dec 07 Chief Executive’s
Review
continued
12
Delivering our strategy
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Centrica’ s growth businesses in the UK, North America and 
Europe have considerable potential for increasing the Group’ s
profitability, and they made strong progress during 2007. In addition,
we are focusing on new opportunities to provide low-carbon products
and services to customers concerned about climate change.
Progress
British Gas Business delivered record profitability, a growing
customer base and improving levels of customer satisfaction; 
while in British Gas Services, account numbers grew by 7% and
operating profits* by 48% as service levels improved dramatically. 
We continued to strengthen our Direct Energy business in 
North America, which was restructured, delivering the targeted 
cost reductions. It also grew its operating profit^* by more than
15% before exchange rate movements, despite increased
competitive pressures and a weaker US housing market that
affected the residential and services businesses. We improved 
the balance of the business too, with one of its four sectors moving 
into profit for the first time and another doubling its contribution.
Ahead of the European Union becoming a fully competitive 
energy market, we are aiming to build a gas and power business 
in north western Europe. In 2007, our operating profits in Europe
more than doubled, we established SPE-Luminus as the
undisputed number two player in Belgium in the electricity and
gas market, and we added 500,000 customer accounts in the
newly liberalised Walloon part of the market.
In April we created a new business unit, British Gas New Energy
(BGNE). British Gas is already a noted force in the supply of ‘green’
electricity and appliances in the UK. BGNE is therefore well placed
to operate successfully in the low-carbon market that is expected
to grow exponentially in the coming years.
In a related move in North America, we formed a new group in 
the upstream and wholesale energy business to focus solely on
carbon and renewables. Direct Energy also launched its first carbon
neutral product as part of its successful market entry into British
Columbia. This has since been extended across Canada.
^ from continuing operations
* including joint ventures and associates stated net of interest and taxation, 
and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements
Build on our growth platforms
We intend to grow businesses
organically and through acquisition,
driving top and bottom line growth.
new customer product holdings 
in British Gas Services
120
87
07 06
151
102
187
173
British Gas
Business
British Gas
Services
Direct Energy
excluding Income Fund
07 06 07 06
Operating proﬁt^* (£m)
3 We increased profits considerably in all growth businesses
3 We strengthened our positions in North America and Europe
3 We launched British Gas New Energy to focus on low-carbon 
products and services 13
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
During 2008, we will continue to focus our efforts on the four
priorities that I set in 2007.
Transforming British Gas 
Our critical short-term priority will be continued focus on our service
to customers while delivering sustainable returns. Longer term, 
we believe that for all energy suppliers to substantially improve
customer service will require a nationwide investment in smart
metering technology.
We will remove an additional £60 million of operating cost and will
invest in the British Gas brand to rebuild its relevance to consumers
not only as a provider of energy but of energy efficiency advice 
and services. 
Cutting costs
We are making cost reduction central to our business culture. 
We will continue to identify and re-engineer outdated processes
and procedures with the aim of becoming the most efficient energy
supplier with the lowest cost per customer. 
We will also introduce new trading and logistic systems into
Centrica Energy to better support our asset portfolio and
downstream businesses, phased over 2008 and 2009.
Strengthening our asset base
With wholesale energy costs still volatile, the importance of 
getting more of our gas and power from our own resources cannot
be overestimated. Our acquisition of the Newfield gas properties
and the investments we are making in both renewables and gas-
fired power generation are important steps in the right direction but
we need to do more. This will be a key strategic priority in 2008.
We will need to continue pursuing power generation and gas asset
opportunities both in the UK and internationally. But we will also
assess opportunities in gas storage and develop our gas exploration
prospects in the UK, Norway, Nigeria and Trinidad.
We will increase our involvement in LNG, where our aim is to become
the downstream partner of choice for the oil companies who own the
rights to the vast majority of the world’ s undeveloped gas resources.
Longer term we will also evaluate carefully the opportunity to participate
in the replacement of the UK’ s fleet of nuclear power stations.
Looking to grow
Our growth businesses are contributing well to the Group, but there
are opportunities for them to do even better, and we will continue 
to drive both top and bottom line improvement in these areas.
In the UK, in British Gas Business we will seek to maintain our
current growth trajectory through ongoing development of our 
routes to market while focusing also on further enhancing the
service we deliver.
British Gas Services is developing additional customer propositions
to make more rapid progress in the on-demand markets. Improving
the links between British Gas Residential, British Gas Services and
BGNE will enable us to make better use of our assets and to develop
new revenue by offering customers more cross-business packages. 
BGNE will become increasingly important in 2008 with growing
customer concern about energy efficiency and the positive effect
that this can have on climate change. In January we announced 
a stronger contractual relationship with Ceres Power on the
development of a domestic combined heat and power boiler using
ground-breaking fuel cell technology, supported by a £20 million
equity investment. We will seek to identify more ways of facilitating
the move towards a low-carbon society while keeping the British
Gas name at the forefront.
In North America there is real potential to grow our business both
organically and through acquisition in our existing markets and
geographies. Short-term prospects will be affected by the depth
and length of any economic downturn but we will seek to minimise
the impact through the increasing diversity of our business streams.
Developing our businesses in Europe remains challenging. This
year we will concentrate on simplifying the ownership structure of
SPE in Belgium as the merger of Suez and Gaz de France proceeds.
We will also continue to grow our Belgian, Dutch and Spanish
businesses, and to establish ourselves firmly in the industrial and
commercial market in Germany.
In summary, we will be following the same path in 2008 as we 
have in 2007, guided by the same priorities that we have laid down.
The UK market faces high wholesale energy prices which appear 
to be taking their lead from the oil-linked gas markets of continental
Europe and our other markets are feeling the effects of weakening
economic conditions. In this environment it is important that 
we remain single-minded in making our operations leaner and 
more efficient to give us the best chance of success in the UK 
and internationally.
Centrica is a strong business with a clear sense of direction and the
momentum to make the best of its unique strengths. I am confident
that we will be able to take significant strides in 2008.
Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
21 February 2008
