 British Gas delivered strong financial returns in a year when it also
reversed the decline in the size of its customer base. This was
achieved not only through lower commodity costs in the first half
but also through lower pricing, the continued removal of excess
costs, the launch of more innovative propositions and a dedication
to improving customer service. During the year Centrica Energy
completed a gas acquisition in the North Sea and acquired
additional gas exploration acreage with strong future potential. 
We continue to look for opportunities to acquire more substantial
gas assets.
Our growth businesses performed very strongly in 2007. British
Gas Business and British Gas Services delivered record results,
underpinned by ongoing growth in customer numbers. In North
America, Direct Energy also delivered record profits against 
the backdrop of a weakening housing market, early signs of an
economic downturn in the United States and adverse exchange
rate movements. It was also another year of record profits in
Centrica Storage. In Europe however, while the Commission
remains supportive of real network unbundling, meaningful
progress on market deregulation was limited.
Dividend
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 9.65 pence (2006: 
8.0 pence) for payment in June 2008 bringing our full-year 
dividend to13.0 pence (2006: 1 1 . 15 pence). This represents 
a17% year-on-year increase, in line with our policy and
commitment to sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend.
05
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Performance review
Centrica delivered very strong financial results during another
challenging year for UK energy retailers.
New pipelines from Norway and the Netherlands, which were
underpinned by long-term gas contracts with British Gas, began 
to bring additional gas to the UK and helped to bring down wholesale
gas prices at the start of the year. This allowed us to show leadership
in the market by passing reductions in the wholesale price on 
to our customers by reducing our retail prices in March and April.
Unfortunately the spectre of high wholesale energy prices appeared
again in the second half of the year as global oil prices reached
record highs and this has continued into the start of 2008. As a
result it was necessary for us to raise customer tariffs in January.
The management team worked diligently through 2007 to minimise
the impact of rising wholesale energy prices, making substantial
inroads into the operating cost base of British Gas and extracting
efficiencies where possible. At the same time we must continue 
to invest in high quality energy assets to serve our UK and
international customers and this reinvestment in our business can
only be funded through the consistent delivery of reasonable and
sustainable profits.
In February 2007 Sam Laidlaw clearly set out four priorities for
Centrica and I believe that management has made some real
progress against these objectives. Sam reports on this progress 
in detail in his review of the year.
Chairman’s
Statement
Securing shareholder value
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
07
Centrica delivered very
strong financial results
during another challenging
year for UK energy retailers. We will, however, continue to take all possible actions 
to minimise the impact to our customers whilst delivering the level
of profitability required to underpin the investments necessary to
secure additional high quality upstream assets.
We have set out a clear agenda for Centrica in the form of four
strategic priorities and we will continue to focus on these as we
move forward. In doing this we will seek to strike the appropriate
balance between driving increased efficiencies in the current 
core UK energy business, providing growth across the Group 
and evaluating and securing additional quality upstream assets 
to reduce exposure to short-term commodity price movements. 
Only by delivering against our priorities will we be able to satisfy 
our customers and reward our employees while maximising returns
for our shareholders.
Roger Carr 
Chairman 
21 February 2008
Chairman’s
Statement
continued
06
Securing shareholder value
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
Board changes
Early in the year we changed the structure of our executive
management team, with Phil Bentley assuming the role of
Managing Director of British Gas, Jake Ulrich adding Europe to 
his responsibilities as Managing Director of our upstream activities
and Nick Luff joining Centrica from P&O as Group Finance Director.
I believe that under the leadership of Sam Laidlaw the team has
already begun to make a real difference to both the short-term
performance and the long-term prospects of Centrica.
Our employees
In a business such as Centrica, people are central to the delivery of
better service and improving financial results. Our employees have
worked hard to support the change in systems, working practices,
organisation structure and management within the Company. 
I thank them all for their loyalty, hard work and dedication. It is a
credit to them that British Gas Business and British Gas Services
were both recognised in the Financial Times T op 50 ‘Best
Workplaces for 2007’.
The future
Wholesale energy prices remain extremely volatile and the high 
gas price at the start of 2008 has squeezed retail supply margins 
in the UK. In these circumstances retail price increases have been
necessary in order to restore reasonable margins.
Go online
Why not manage your
shares online?
Our electronic communication
service provides fast, easy access
to shareholder information.
www.centrica.com/reports2007
Wholesale energy prices
remain extremely volatile
and the high gas price 
at the start of 2008 has
squeezed retail supply
margins in the UK. 
