 ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S SATEMENT
T h e 	 o b j e c t i v e 	 o f 	 A C S 	 i s 	 t o 	 b e 	 t h e	
l e a d i n g 	 c o n s o l i d a t o r 	 o f 	 s o f t w a r e 	 a n d	
s e r v i c e s 	 t o 	 t h e 	 P r i m a r y 	 C a r e 	 m a r k e t 	 a n d	
in 	 our 	 first 	 six 	 months 	 w e 	 ha v e 	 built 	 a 	
str ong 	 f ounda tion 	 t o 	 achie v e 	 this.
since creation in august 2008 we have 
successfully integrated adastra and 
announced our intention to acquire Bsg. 
the combination of adastra and Bsg 
bring significant opportunities for organic 
growth and form a substantial platform 
for further acquisitions.
pRiMARy CARE 
acs serves principally the uk Primary 
care sector which is responsible for  
the delivery of first hand health care  
to patients. 
acs ’ software products focus on Primary 
care but are also applicable to charities 
and palliative care agencies that handle 
calls and/or community visits.
in the uk , the responsibility for 
health care lies principally with the 
nHs which is split into agencies in 
england, scotland, wales and northern 
ireland. acs works closely with all 
these agencies and their relevant 
organisations. a summarised view of the 
market can be found on page 8.
from an it perspective, the Primary  
care sector offers significant  
opportunities. software capabilities 
adopted in other industries have not yet 
been implemented within the nHs and 
acs can bring proven technology into 
this environment. one example of this 
would be the development of adastra’s 
inurse product for community nurses 
which is discussed below. acs intends 
to address the it needs of Primary c are 
through a combination of in-house 
development and strategic acquisitions. 
r elative to the overall it spend of the 
nHs , acs has a very small share of the 
nHs it market and therefore we believe 
there is room to grow by delivering 
systems and services which meet the 
needs of the nHs . the it spend of the 
nHs in england was planned as £3.6bn 
for the financial year 2008-09.
AdAsTRA
adastra is the market leader in the 
provision of software and services 
for the management of ooH and 
unscheduled healthcare. adastra 
provides event management, data 
distribution and clinical support software. 
adastra also supplies infrastructure, 
networking and 24-hour support 
services, together with a secondary 
software product that automates the 
flow of information between the 
national nurse helpline services (nHs 
direct, nHs24 and nHs w ales) and the 
operational hubs contracted by Pcts to 
Chief executive’s statement
10
Compared with other sectors, health care has 
been relatively slow to adopt new technologies 
that are already in widespread use elsewhere; 
there are examples of technologies known to 
be beneficial and affordable that have not yet 
reached the health care consumer.  
Kings Fund Report 2008 11
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S SATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2009 ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE
manage ooH healthcare. apart from its 
strong market position, adastra benefits 
from the following:
r evenues with circa 65% underpinned  »
by recurring maintenance contracts 
and a renewal rate exceeding 95%.
Higher-margin direct sales model  »
generating more than 90% of sales and 
enhanced opportunities for cross selling.
strong profitability and cash  »
conversion with potential for 
increasing eBitda margins.
strong domain expertise in delivering  »
mission-critical and ‘sticky’ applications 
to key users in Primary care.
ongoing product innovation including  »
a move towards subscription pricing 
and new products for nursing and 
community care.
interoperability with more than 100  »
other it systems serving both the 
Primary care and the acute parts of 
the nHs .
in line with government policy, which 
is increasingly championing integrated 
healthcare in an out-of-hospital setting, 
the province of the operational hubs is 
growing to encompass other aspects of 
Primary care, including social care and 
home nursing. 
inTEGRATion pRoCEss
the integration of adastra into acs has 
been very successful and we more than 
doubled the monthly eBitda run rate 
within six months of acquisition.
the integration process will serve as 
the model for future acquisitions. the 
process is to implement proven sales 
methodologies, focus marketing strategy, 
prioritise product development to where 
demand is highest, and implement 
efficient processes particularly across 
product training and service utilisation. 
nEw pRoduCTs
adastra’s core software product has a 
strong franchise within the ooH sector 
and can be leveraged by customers in 
other environments. for example, an 
operational hub using adastra for gP 
ooH calls can also use the software 
for walk-in-centres and Polyclinics. in 
addition, the software has been further 
developed to launch three new products 
in the coming year:
iNurse: inurse is a mobile solution for 
care workers, such as community nurses, 
making visits to patients in their homes 
or other environments. a successful pilot 
of the product was run at nHs derby 
city for six months and inurse will be 
launched in the summer of 2009. 
at present, district nurses use paper 
based processes to plan and report 
workload, taking extra time and 
resource. with inurse, each nurse is 
given a hand held device to be notified 
of allocated patient visits and details 
and to upload instant feedback once 
visits are complete. once transmitted 
no data is left on the hand held device 
ensuring data security and patient 
confidentiality.
acs estimates that there are 65,000 
such nurses and palliative care workers 
in the uk who could gain significant 
benefits by using inusre within their 
teams. Based upon the average cost 
per visit of a district nurse, the inurse 
monthly charge to the Pct would be 
paid back after only one or two extra 
visits per month. in the pilot at derby, 
extra visits of one to two visits per day 
were generated.
End- o f -Lif e	R egist er: Patients who have 
terminal illnesses often have personal 
preferences for treatment, such as the 
desire to be or not be resuscitated and 
to die at home. in 2008, the nHs in 
england announced that all Pcts should 
implement an end-of-life r egister to log 
each patient’s wishes so that the nHs 
best serves them. adastra developed a 
hosted facility based on its core software 
that allows Pcts to quickly implement 
such a register and link it back to their 
current adastra infrastructure.
Relative to the overall IT spend of the NHS, ACS 
has a very small share of the NHS IT market and 
therefore we believe there is room to grow by 
delivering systems and services which meet the 
needs of the NHS. 
Under ACS 
management, 
Adastra’s monthly 
EBITDA run rate 
doubled in less 
than six months.
Adastra  
supports circa
650 
servers 
300 
PC/laptops  
50 
firewalls and 
equipment in 
500 
vehicles 12
Chief executive’s statement (cont)
Summary 	 C ar e 	 R ec or d 	 (SCR): under 
a nHs initiative, patients in england 
will have a scr made available to 
authorised health care professionals 
treating them anywhere in the nHs in 
england. adastra has embedded in its 
software the ability for instant access 
to the patient’s scr . adastra developed 
its scr facility over two years and 
completed all testing and compliance 
procedures with cfH (the it agency for 
the nHs in england) in january 2009. as 
i write, we await the final contractual 
proceedings with cf H to roll out this 
facility across england.
Hosting:	Primary care customers are 
also requesting greater hosting services 
to facilitate their it provision and reduce 
capital expenditure and software as 
a service fits neatly with hosting. the 
acquisition of Bsg will allow adastra to 
offer hosting facilities quickly and with a 
very experienced team.
BsG
acs announced on 8 may 2009 its 
intention to acquire Business systems 
group Holdings Plc. Bsg is a managed 
services company that designs, deploys 
and operates it solutions for its 
customers and its services will allow 
adastra’s new hosted products (inurse 
and end-of-l ife r egister in particular) 
to be rolled out more quickly. in 
addition, Bsg’s technically qualified 
and experienced staff and its suite of 
managed services and training offerings 
will bring significant cross selling 
opportunities. for example, adastra will 
now be able to offer to the nHs training 
services that include sharePoint.
FuTuRE ACquisiTions
the Board intends to acquire further 
businesses to complement acs products 
and services bringing additional growth. 
we will focus on acquisitions that 
provide new products and services to 
further meet the it needs of the Primary 
care market and which will provide 
new channels to market for the quality 
products and services of adastra and 
Bsg. the successful integration process 
implemented with adastra will be rolled 
out to each acquisition.
on 21 may 2009, we announced a 
conditional fund raising of £43.575m 
which will help us deliver the 
acquisitions more quickly.
i am looking forward to the coming year 
and the opportunity to grow from the 
strong foundation we have built.
	
Vin	Murria
chief executive director 
5 june 2009
ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S SATEMENT
Adastra’s core software product has a strong 
franchise within the OoH sector and can be 
leveraged by customers in other environments. 
For example, an operational hub using Adastra for 
GP OoH calls can also use the software for Walk-
in-Centres and Polyclinics.
We will focus on acquisitions that provide new 
products and services to further meet the IT 
needs of the Primary Care market and which will 
provide new channels to market for the quality 
products and services of Adastra and BSG.
Adastra inter-
operates with 
over 100 other 
systems making it 
an integral part of 
unscheduled care 13
CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S SATEMENT ANNUAL REPORT 2009 ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE
ACS announced in 
May 2009 that it 
had conditionally 
raised £43.575m 
in equity to fund 
acquisitions
