 A CS	pr o vides	so f tw ar e	and	servic es	
t o	the	Primary	C ar e	mark e t .	With	the	
addition	o f	BSG,	these	servic es	wil l	
include	hosting ,	IT	ne tw ork	design	and	
deplo yment	c apabilities.	C ust omers	
wil l	include	businesses	in	bo th	the	
no t - f or -pr ofit	and	c ommer cial	sect ors.
AdAsTRA
adastra’s core software is configured for 
each customer to fit their own needs 
and is used in many environments. 
the software is used throughout the 
uk nHs (as well as in ireland and 
the netherlands) in many different 
environments, including:
GP 	 Out - o f -Hours: adastra’s software 
was originally developed to address the 
needs of gPs providing health care during 
the night (out-of-Hours). By working 
together to form teams, each gP can 
ensure health care to their own patients 
but each gP does not personally need to 
be on-call as regularly. adastra supports 
95% of the out-of-Hours operations.
W al k -in 	 C entr es: the nHs created w alk-in 
centres as a way of providing quick 
and efficient health care to patients in 
whatever region they were and without 
waiting for a gP appointment. Patients 
are served on a first-come first-served 
basis and walk-in centres are usually 
nurse-led. some of the walk-in centres 
are now becoming Polyclincs (see below).
Ur gent	C ar e	F r ont -Ends: emergency 
care departments in hospitals are often 
visited by patients with non-urgent 
health problems (for example, a simple 
headache). adastra’s software allows 
these cases to be filtered from the 
urgent ones and managed separately 
and efficiently and not taking vital 
resources from emergency care.
P oly clinic s: the nHs announced in 2008 
the creation of up to 150 Polyclinics 
(also known as gP-led Health centres, 
equitable access centres or darzi clinics) 
following a review by lord d arzi. these 
centres are single locations where 
multiple nHs services can be accessed, 
for example, gPs, pharmacy, blood 
testing and nurse appointments. 
C al l	C entr es	&	24-Hour	Help	Lines: 
adastra’s software supports the 
nHsdirect, nHs24 and nHs w ales 
call centres and other single point of 
access organisations. for example, a Pct 
wishing to provide one phone number 
for health care support can use adastra’s 
software to manage the cases and to 
distribute the information back to the 
patient’s own gPs and other appropriate 
centres as necessary.
Minor	Injuries	Units: in england there 
are 225 minor injury units where a 
patient with a non-urgent injury can 
go to be treated. the concept is similar 
to the walk-in centres but minor injury 
units tend to have gP back-up and 
deal mainly with injuries (for example, 
superficial cuts) rather than general 
health issues.
The	 Home: customers providing at-home 
health support (for example, transmitting 
sugar level data from a diabetic patient 
for analysis at a central point) can use 
adastra’s software to manage patient 
information and any clinical actions that 
need to be taken, such as a nurse visit.
Mobile	D a ta: adastra offers a toughened 
laptop solution that gPs and other 
clinicians can use to connect to a central 
base and work from home remotely 
from any other location. the laptops 
and the connectivity are nHs security 
compliant and provide flexibility in 
health care provision.
.
New Products
iNurse: adastra’s inurse is a mobile 
hand-held unit that allows nurses 
or other community care workers to 
receive work schedules, instructions 
and patient information and to send 
feedback once a visit to a patient is 
complete. the inurse product is a new 
offering and the pilot test in derby 
resulted in significant customer benefits 
including extra patient visits, better 
nurse security and more timely and 
accurate recording and communication 
of patient care information.
End- of -Lif e 	 R egister: Patients who 
have terminal illnesses often have 
personal preferences for treatment, 
such as the desire to be or not be 
resuscitated or to die at home. in 2008, 
the nHs in england announced that all 
Pcts should implement an end-of-l ife 
r egister to log each patient’s wishes 
so that the nHs best serves them. 
adastra offers a hosted facility based 
on its core software that allows Pcts 
to quickly implement such a register, 
giving access to authorised health 
workers and linking it back to their 
current adastra infrastructure.
6
ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE ANNUAL REPORT 2009 SERVICE OVERVIEW
Service overview
The Derby PCT 
pilot of iNurse 
increased nurse 
visits by 1 - 2 
per day
glossary of terms: page 61 Summary 	 C ar e 	 R ec or d 	 (SCR): adastra has 
worked with cf H to develop the ability to 
see a patient’s scr during a patient call/
visit. for example, a doctor could see 
on screen, without having to ask, that 
a patient calling is allergic to antibiotics 
and had a heart attack two years ago. 
r olling out the scr has been one of 
the major goals of cf H and adastra’s 
software can provide the information 
either from the central repository (the 
“spine”) or directly via web-access to 
gP-run systems such as emis.
Additional Services
Har dw ar e 	 and 	 Netw orking: adastra 
designs and deploys the networking 
infrastructure needed by customers to 
implement the adastra software. the 
benefits to the customer include having 
one supplier with full responsibility, 
an infrastructure best adapted to the 
adastra software and the benefit of up 
to date technical knowledge.
Servic e 	 Support : adastra provides 
support services 24hours, 7 days week 
every week of the year. any issue 
raised by customers is dealt with in a 
professional and efficient manner with 
the objective of solving the issue as 
quickly and smoothly as possible.
Pr oject 	 Management : a team of 
project managers plan and manage 
the implementation of new and/or 
upgraded software into a customer’s 
working environment and support that 
customer through go-live.
T r aining: a dedicated team of trainers 
provide on-site training for all customer 
contacts. the training covers clinical 
and non-clinical user functionality 
and reporting for nHs reporting 
requirements. 
History of Adastra
the story of adastra began in 1992 
when lynn woods, now executive 
advisor to the acs Board, was appointed 
to manage the south east kent 
association of doctors on c all (seadoc), 
based in folkestone. seadoc was one 
of many gP co-operative organisations 
formed across the uk to provide co-
ordinated (out-of-Hours) services.
seadoc quickly recognised that a 
computer system would be needed to 
manage the high volume of patient 
calls electronically. with no suitable 
software product available for use by 
co-operatives, seadoc commissioned 
a system to its own specification. 
james Berry, a 19 year old computer 
sciences student at the university of 
southampton, was asked to tackle the 
project, and in december 1993 james 
produced his first version of what was 
to become adastra. it was an immediate 
success and adastra merged with rival 
provider owl software in may 2002. 
in august 2008, acs acquired adastra.
BsG
Bsg is a managed services company 
that designs, deploys and operates  
it solutions to small and medium  
size businesses. Bsg offers four  
main services:
Managed 	 Servic es: from utility 
functions, such as email, monitoring & 
backup, through to the outsourcing of an 
entire it environment for a customer
Applications 	 Solutions: application 
development and consultancy, using a 
blended resourcing model of on-shore 
consultancy & project management and 
off-shore development 
Infr astructur e 	 Solutions: working with 
tier 1 vendors to design and deploy 
hardware and network solutions to  
help customers achieve more from their 
it investment
T r aining 	 Servic es: end-user application 
and technical training adapted to the 
needs of each customer, for example, 
sharePoint training.
History of BSG
formed in 1987, Bsg began its trading 
history as an it reseller, selling hardware 
and software to its clients in london and 
the south east.
in 1996, whilst most of the reseller 
community continued to focus on 
hardware, Bsg made the strategic 
decision to focus on managed services 
as a core part of the business, offering 
managed and hosted data centre 
solutions to its customers. Based on 
strong product offerings, a strong focus 
on customer satisfaction and three small 
acquisitions, Bsg grew to a business 
generating revenues of over £13m in 
its core managed services business and 
£18m in infrastructure sales.
on 8 may 2009, acs announced its 
intention to acquire Bsg. the acquisition 
will allow acs to offer hosting and 
other support services to its Primary 
care customers and bring new adastra 
solutions, such as inurse and end-of-life 
r egister, to market more quickly.
7
SERVICE OVERVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2009 ADVANCED COMPUTER SOFTWARE
Adastra software 
supports 14 million 
patient episodes 
every year – 
equivalent to three 
Wembley Stadium 
crowds each week.
“A t	the	Thorndik e	Sur gery	w e	c ar e	f or	o v er	13 ,000	pa tients.	Ur gent	c ar e ,	when	the	
sur gery	is	shut ,	is	pr o vided	b y	Medw a y	On	C al l	C ar e	who	use	Adastr a.	It	is	v ery	
e asy	t o	pr o vide	c ontinuing	c ar e	f or	our	pa tients	the	ne x t	da y	as	al l	the	inf orma tion	
fr om	an y	c ontacts	a t	night	flo w	aut oma tic al ly	fr om	Adastr a	int o	the	document	
management	f acility	in	our	sur gery ’ s	c omput er	sy st em.	When	seeing	the	pa tient	f or	
an y	f ol lo w	up	c onsulta tion	I	kno w	e x actly	wha t	tr e a tment	the	pa tient	has	r ec eiv ed	
and	c an	then	manage	the	pa tient	mor e	appr opria t ely .”
dr jash tanday, senior Partner, dame sybil thorndike surgery, r ochester, kent.
