 08
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
It has been a year of extraordinary turbulence in the 
commodity markets. During the first half of the year we 
experienced volatile and rapidly rising global oil and gas 
prices driven primarily by growing demand in Asia. In the 
second half the sharp contraction of credit markets caused 
a collapse of worldwide oil demand and the oil price.  
By the end of the year this started to feed through into  
a softening of the wholesale gas price. Although Centrica 
has navigated well through this market upheaval our 
profitability has been impacted with the upstream 
benefiting at the expense of downstream margins.
Only five years ago the energy environment in which we operate 
was very different to the one that we are in today. Then, wholesale 
gas markets were reasonably stable, security of supply was a 
distant concern with the UK self-sufficient in gas and exporting  
its excess to the continent – and new nuclear power was not 
universally welcome.
A great deal has changed.
Even though energy prices have softened as a result of the 
recession, the long-term trend remains upwards driven by  
the industrialisation of Asia, the increased costs of oil and gas 
extraction, political uncertainties surrounding sources of supply  
and the need to decarbonise our economies to meet the challenge 
of climate change. In the UK, domestic oil and gas production 
continues to decline and our import dependency is growing 
sharply. The power generation fleet is ageing and needs replacing 
with low-carbon technologies. In the US the new Obama 
administration has placed a high priority on meeting the challenge 
of climate change which, as in Europe, will place an additional but 
necessary cost on the consumer.
Taken together the triple challenges of ensuring security of supply, 
minimising climate change and providing affordable energy pose 
profound questions for the whole of the energy industry. There are 
no easy – or cheap – answers, although energy efficiency has a 
vital role to play. What is clear is that unprecedented levels of 
investment will be required over the next two decades to meet 
these challenges.
Gas
The UK is increasingly reliant on imports. Some 35% of UK gas 
was imported in 2008, and it is estimated that 70% will be imported 
by 2015. Demand for gas remains at high levels globally, despite 
the economic recession and the UK has to compete in the global 
marketplace. So Centrica is investing in new gas assets in the 
British and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
We are also investing in contracts and UK infrastructure to enable 
us to import increasing amounts of liquefied natural gas (LNG).  
In January 2009, we received the largest shipment of LNG ever 
delivered to the UK. But LNG is also a global product and the  
UK and Europe are competing with Asia and North America for 
LNG supplies.
Going forward, as additional LNG production comes on-stream 
and an increasing number of players enter the market, we will be 
pursuing a range of sourcing strategies.
Price volatility and supply constraints can be eased through storing 
gas bought during periods of low demand. The UK has relatively 
limited storage – we have around 16 days of gas storage compared 
to about 77 in Germany and 88 in France – and so this is another 
area in which Centrica is investing.
Power
The European Union and national governments are imposing  
strict limits on CO2 emissions and stretching targets for the use  
of renewable energy. The European Renewables Directive, for 
example, will bind the UK to a 15% renewables target by 2020.  
The UK Government has suggested that this is likely to mean up  
to 30–35% of electricity could come from renewable sources 
compared with less than 5% today. According to the Government,  
this will require around £100 billion of investment.
However, renewables alone will not be able to fill the medium- 
term supply gap. The alternatives are gas, coal or nuclear  
power stations.
We are close to completing the first gas-fired power station to be 
built in the UK for almost five years, at a cost of £400 million and 
expect this to begin commercial operation later in 2009. We also 
“  Centrica once again 
delivered a good financial 
performance in a year 
which provided a severe 
test for the business.”
A year in the  
energy industry 09
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
firmly believe that a vital longer-term contributor to energy security 
in a low-carbon world is new nuclear capacity. Much of the existing 
nuclear generation fleet will be retired over the next 15 years, and 
the replacement process has a very long lead time so decisions 
need to be made today. Our Rights Issue in December has 
provided the resources to enable us to be actively involved  
in this market.
Centrica’s strategy needs to be able to address the complex issues 
that the industry faces, and to do so in ways that can deliver 
sustainable value for our shareholders. This requires us to manage 
all of the risks and opportunities we are facing with a clear vision 
and an understanding of where our corporate responsibilities lie. 
Our strategy must be able to respond appropriately to the needs of 
our vulnerable customers, to ensure the health and safety of our 
customers and employees, as well as meeting the challenges of 
security of supply and climate change.
I believe that it can, and that in seeking to create an integrated 
energy company, operating upstream by developing new sources 
of gas and power, and downstream with strong brands and 
innovative propositions, we have a robust approach to meeting  
the challenges ahead.
We have continued to operate the business in line with the strategic 
priorities we set at the end of 2006, and report on those over the 
next pages. In short the increasing extent of vertical integration in 
Centrica, the emphasis on operational excellence, the reduction of 
our cost base and the improvement in our customer service meant 
that we ended 2008 with a stronger business and momentum for 
the future.
PRIORITy 1 – T RANSFORM BRITISh GAS
British Gas Residential is the core of our business, and  
it needs to deliver consistently high levels of service and 
profitability if we are to succeed. 
The transformation, therefore, aims to: 
•  improve our price competitiveness, service levels and 
product offer
•  reduce our costs through ‘best-in-class’ productivity 
while remaining a great place to work
• achieve long-term margins of 6–7%
The progress we’ve made 
During 2008 our customer service improved significantly. Average 
time to answer and to handle calls reduced further and our 
proportion of industry complaint levels fell by nearly a third over  
the year. Compared to 2007 we also increased the percentage  
of customer enquiries which were resolved on the first call and 
substantially reduced the transactional exceptions associated with 
the new billing system. These service improvements enabled further 
progress to be made on our cost reduction initiatives. Our operating 
cost base in 2008 was over £200 million lower than in 2006.
In October Ofgem published the initial findings of its probe into  
the energy supply industry in Britain. The report concluded that 
effective competition exists between the major suppliers. However, 
it did make recommendations to reduce certain retail price 
differentials, particularly relating to former incumbent electricity 
suppliers who charge different prices for in-area and out-of-area 
customers. It also suggested a reduction in tariffs for those 
customers with a prepayment meter, to more accurately reflect the 
additional cost involved in supplying those customers. British Gas 
complied with this recommendation in a matter of a few weeks. 
What’s next 
We have created a strong foundation here over the last two years 
and now is the time to take British Gas to the next stage of its 
evolution. Building on our already strong brand in the UK we are 
seeking to deepen the customer relationship by combining the 
energy and services propositions. This will offset the gradual decline 
over time in the use of gas by consumers in the UK as we move to  
a lower carbon economy, and take full advantage of the increasing 
demand for energy efficient products and services. To best achieve 
this we will combine British Gas Residential, British Gas Business 
and British Gas Services into a single customer-focused 
organisation. This will enable us to launch new bundled products 
under the British Gas brand, products that customers want, to 
increase customer loyalty, to further reduce costs and to target even 
more efficiently the substantial support we already provide for our 
vulnerable customers. Phil Bentley, the current Managing Director of 
British Gas Energy, will run this new organisation. Chris Weston, 
current Managing Director of British Gas Services, will take over 
leadership of the Direct Energy business from Deryk King in July 
2009.
UK gas supply/demand 1998–2018
1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018
Gas demand
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Import 
requirement
UKCS gas
production
Source: Office of National Statistics, DECC, National Grid
   
Energy hedge ratio %
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Drax Wind
Acquisitions 
(2006–2008)
North Sea Morecambe
06 07 08 09 10 11 12 10
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
continued
Transform  
British Gas
•  New billing system 
complete
•  Service levels 
dramatically improved
•  Removed over £200m  
of costs since 2006
•  Popular fixed-price and 
online propositions 
•  Essentials tariff for 
vulnerable customers
Sharpen the 
organisation and  
reduce costs
•	 	 New senior management 
structure 
•	 	 Like-for-like Group 
operating costs reduced 
by £40 million
•	 	 Becoming increasingly 
efficient
Reduce risk  
through integration
•  First major UK power 
station for almost five years 
•  Completed world’s 
largest offshore wind farm 
development
•  Acquired more gas assets 
and received first LNG 
shipment 
•  Announced two major new 
storage projects in 2008 
Build on our  
growth platforms
•  Strong customer growth  
in BGB
•  Increase in sale of BGS 
secondary products
•  Upstream and downstream  
acquisitions in North 
America
PRIORITy 2 – ShARPEN ThE ORGANISATION 
AND REDUCE COSTS
We operate in a highly competitive market – for customers 
at national level and for global sources of energy.
In order to compete in the long term, our organisation has 
to be as lean and efficient as possible, with the people and 
structures that enable us to make the best use of the skills 
and resources we have.
The progress we’ve made 
In July Mark Hanafin joined Centrica as Managing Director Centrica 
Energy and Europe. This further strengthened the executive team. 
Various initiatives in the year across the Group meant that we finished 
2008 as a leaner organisation without affecting our ability to grow. 
This helped to reduce our Group like-for-like operating costs by  
£40 million, despite the inflationary pressures, particularly in the 
offshore services environment.
What’s next 
We have a strong leadership team in place and improved capital 
allocation, risk management and cost control processes, which will 
enable us to drive superior financial and operational performance. 
Going forward, we consider operating cost advantage to be a key 
competitive differentiator for Centrica and we will be relentless in 
the pursuit of further cost reductions, while enabling growth across 
the business. 
PRIORITy 3 – R EDUCE RISK Th ROUGh 
INTEGRATION
We need to produce more of the energy that we sell. In the 
UK, we are only able to supply 29% of our gas requirements 
from our own gas fields and 58% of our peak electricity 
demand from our own generation facilities. The remainder 
has to be bought in highly volatile world markets.
The progress we’ve made 
During the year, we made good progress. We acquired additional 
gas assets in the British and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.  
In March we increased our equity stake in the assets originally 
acquired from Newfield in 2007 and in October we completed our 
acquisition of assets in the Heimdal area of the North Sea. At the 
end of the year we announced an agreement to acquire an 
additional interest in the Peik gas field in the UK and in January 
2009 we agreed to take additional equity in the York gas field. These 
deals provided us with both producing gas assets and valuable 
exploration and development prospects.
During the year Centrica Storage announced two important 
potential gas storage projects. In March we began engineering 
studies to explore the potential to convert the Bains gas field in the 
Morecambe Bay area into a storage field with a capacity of up to 
20 billion cubic feet (bcf). In September we acquired the Caythorpe 
onshore gas field and began the process of converting it into  
a storage field capable of holding up to 7.5bcf of stored gas.  
In February 2009 we announced our intention to create an 
additional 60bcf gas storage field in the UK North Sea following  
the acquisition of a 70% share in the Baird gas field. 
In power generation we completed the Lynn and Inner Dowsing  
wind farm development off the Lincolnshire coast, the largest 
operational offshore wind farm development in the world. In Devon, 
the construction of the Langage gas-fired power station continued, 
although the contractor has experienced some delays and we now 
expect the station to become operational towards the end of 2009. 
In September we announced the signing of a Memorandum of 
Understanding with EDF to acquire a 25% share in the British 
Energy business. This would add significantly to our upstream 
position and provide us with a long-term hedge against volatile 
wholesale power prices, with access to power where the price  
is not impacted by the cost of oil and gas, and an opportunity  
to grow through new build nuclear construction in the UK.
The proceeds from the successful £2.16 billion Rights Issue 
towards the end of the year provide us with the capital required to 
complete the British Energy transaction and make further material 
progress in increasing the upstream asset base and reducing risk.
Our strategic  
priorities 11
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
What’s next 
We will continue to expand our power generation fleet as part of the 
overall upstream hedge to reduce the exposure to the increasing 
volatility in power prices and spreads. Here we will seek to cover an 
increasing amount of our UK electricity demand load and to grow and 
better align our generation mix with that of our competitors and the 
wider market. As part of this, our discussions with EDF , regarding us 
potentially acquiring 25% of British Energy are continuing. We will also 
pursue external financing to allow us to develop and build on our wind 
farm portfolio, and additional options to grow the size of our 
conventional gas-fired fleet of power stations.
In gas we are continuing to push ahead on reducing our exposure to 
the short-term volatility in wholesale gas prices by acquiring additional 
gas assets and striking gas contracts. In pursuing this we will focus 
most of our asset acquisition activity on the UK and Norwegian 
sectors of the North Sea while also continuing to evaluate LNG 
opportunities. Building closer relationships with National Oil 
Companies, to secure competitive long-term sources of gas for  
our customers, remains firmly on the agenda. 
PRIORITy 4 – BUIl D ON OUR GROWTh 
Pl ATFORMS
Centrica’s growth businesses in the UK, Europe and  
North America have great potential for increasing the 
Group’s profitability.
We are focusing on new opportunities, such as providing 
low-carbon products and services, and increasingly on 
integration in the North American business. This will see us 
concentrate on the geographies and service areas in which 
we are already strong, and support the retail businesses 
through the construction and acquisition of new power assets.
The progress we’ve made 
The financial results in the year show real progress with this priority. 
In British Gas Business and British Gas Services we grew revenue, 
operating profit and customer numbers, while delivering ongoing 
cost efficiencies. In North America we faced a difficult economic 
environment. However here too we increased customer numbers 
and delivered a strong financial result, partially due to favourable 
exchange rate movements. Our acquisition in June of Strategic 
Energy doubled the size of our commercial and industrial (C&I) 
energy supply business and made us the third largest commercial 
supplier of energy in North America. In Europe, in January 2009 we 
completed the acquisition of an additional 25.5% of SPE, giving us a 
valuable controlling stake of 51%. Unfortunately Oxxio, our business 
in The Netherlands, recorded a disappointing loss*. We have taken 
action to stem losses here, including replacing management.
What’s next 
The reorganisation in British Gas provides us with an opportunity  
to increase the overall value of our customer base by expanding  
the overlap between our energy and services businesses through 
bundled offerings under a single brand. In North America we will 
also integrate further by building on the platform we have already 
established and tightening the focus on key geographies. In doing 
this we will establish a centralised service platform which enables 
us to compete more efficiently. With better focus will come a 
greater degree of integration, primarily through the selective 
acquisition and construction of gas and power assets, to provide 
growth opportunities and support for the retail businesses.
In summary 
Following a record 2007 , the financial performance in 2008 was 
good despite a much harsher environment. We made strong 
progress against the strategic priorities we set out at the end of 
2006. The outlook for the global economy remains very challenging 
and in the UK 2009 could be particularly difficult for many of  
our customers, both residential and commercial. We will continue  
to place our customers’ needs at the forefront of our agenda, 
alongside our determination to deliver increasing long-term value  
for our shareholders. 
 
 
 
 
 
Sam Laidlaw  
Chief Executive 
26 February 2009
Far left: In January 
2009, we received the 
largest shipment of 
LNG ever delivered  
to the UK.  
Middle: Centrica’s  
UK headquarters in 
Berkshire.
Left: Our Direct 
Energy business  
in North America.
British Gas Residential 
operating expenditure £m
1,000
750
500
06 07 08
Growth business EBIT £m
(earnings before interest and taxes)
600
500
400
300
200
100
0
07 06 08
BGS BGB DE
Generation mix %
100
80
60
40
20
Centrica
mix
UK mix
0
Gas Coal Oil Wind Nuclear Other
*
  including joint ventures and associates, stated net of interest and taxation, and before 
exceptional items and certain re-measurements
