 05
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
Chairman’s 
Statement
Performing well  
in a difficult year
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information
Against this backdrop Centrica’s financial performance in the year 
was good, with the higher upstream profits providing a partial 
hedge to the inevitable decline in retail profits during this time. We 
also made further progress on our strategic agenda which places 
Centrica on a much stronger footing both at home and abroad.
The sharp rises in world energy prices necessitated two retail price 
increases for UK consumers. We concentrated on providing some 
protection for our customers by reducing our operating costs 
through efficiency improvements, transforming the level of service 
we offer and increasing the support we provide to our vulnerable 
customers. Cost rigour was also evident across the rest of the 
Group as we reduced like-for-like operating costs against 2007.
In September we entered into a Memorandum of Understanding 
with EDF to acquire a 25% stake in the British Energy nuclear 
business. This potential investment is intended to provide a 
long-term hedge against volatile commodity prices and a platform 
for longer-term involvement in new nuclear power generation as a 
valuable source of growth. Beyond this we made further acquisitions 
of gas reserves in the North Sea and in North America. We also 
announced our intention, subject to successful studies, to build 
additional gas storage facilities which will help provide important 
additional security of supply for the UK.
In the year we delivered excellent results in our growth businesses. 
British Gas Business and British Gas Services once again reported 
strong growth in revenue and operating profit. In North America the 
economic climate proved challenging but the business held up well 
and also delivered a good performance.
In Europe we strengthened our presence by acquiring a controlling 
interest in SPE in Belgium. However in The Netherlands, where the 
market continues to favour integrated incumbents, Oxxio did not 
perform well and we have written down its carrying value.
Dividend
The Board of Directors is proposing a final dividend of 8.73 pence 
per share to be paid in June 2009, bringing our full year dividend  
to 12.2 pence, an increase of 5.4%. This is in line with our policy  
of delivering sustained real growth in the ordinary dividend.
Board changes
In March we announced the appointment of Mark Hanafin as 
Managing Director Centrica Energy and Europe, replacing Jake 
Ulrich. I would like to thank Jake for the dedication he has shown 
since the formation of Centrica in 1997 and the material 
contribution he has made in building our portfolio of gas, power 
and storage assets. Mark joined us from Shell where he was 
president and chief executive officer of Shell Energy North America.
“  We remain focused on 
delivering stability and 
growth in Centrica  
for the benefit of our 
customers, employees 
and shareholders.”
Centrica performed well in 2008, during what was a very difficult year 
for energy supply businesses. We witnessed previously unseen levels 
of volatility in wholesale gas and power prices. Oil prices rose to 
almost $150 per barrel and then fell back to below $50 as the high 
levels of global oil demand, which had been causing a tight supply 
position, reversed quite rapidly due to the recessionary impact of the 
global financial crisis. 06
Chairman’s 
Statement
continued
Know more 
about our year
Visit our Annual Report online.
www.centrica.com/report2008 
In February 2009 we announced some changes to the business 
structure within Centrica and to the Executive Committee and  
the Board. We have combined British Gas Residential, British Gas 
Business and British Gas Services into a single customer-focused 
British Gas retail operation to maximise the value and growth 
potential. Phil Bentley assumes responsibility for the combined 
business with immediate effect. Phil remains a Director of  
Centrica plc.
Deryk King, President and Chief Executive Officer of Direct Energy 
and a member of Centrica’s Executive Committee, has decided  
to retire and will leave his position with Direct Energy in July 2009, 
and subsequently depart from Centrica at the end of 2009. Deryk 
has built a very successful business for Centrica in North America 
over the last eight years. Deryk will be succeeded by Chris Weston 
who will take over as President and Chief Executive Officer of  
Direct Energy on 1 July 2009, after a period of handover. Over  
the last three years Chris transformed the operating and financial 
performance of British Gas Services and previously he headed up 
British Gas Business, our commercial energy supply operation. Chris 
will also join the Board of Directors of Centrica plc on 1 July 2009.
Paul Walsh, a Non-Executive Director of Centrica will step down 
from the Centrica Board at the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 
2009. Paul joined the Board in March 2003. The search for a 
replacement has commenced.
Our employees
In February 2009, British Gas was recognised by The Sunday 
Times as one of the ‘20 Best Big Companies to Work For’ which  
is a significant achievement. Our employees remain central to  
the success of Centrica, particularly during these times of great 
uncertainty and change. I want to thank them for the dedication, 
commitment, loyalty and professionalism which they continue  
to display.
The future
The economic landscape, dominated by the global financial 
squeeze, continues to worsen and Centrica is not immune to the 
effects of this. Energy markets remain volatile and erratic, placing 
pressure on parts of our business and on our customers.
In these challenging conditions the task of management will be  
to ensure we provide good service and competitive prices to all, 
support for the most vulnerable, a fair return and reward for our 
shareholders and long-term environmentally friendly sources of 
energy supply for the countries that we serve.
In the Chief Executive’s review, Sam Laidlaw outlines the progress 
made to date against the strategic priorities of the Group and the 
direction and actions that will be taken as we look forward in  
2009. In these unpredictable times, Centrica is well positioned,  
with a solid set of energy and services businesses and a strong 
financial position. I am confident that under Sam’s leadership the 
management team will remain focused on delivering stability and 
growth in Centrica for the benefit of our customers, employees  
and shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Roger Carr
Chairman 
26 February 2009
Our Group-wide business principles create a 
framework to help us make decisions in line 
with a consistent set of operating behaviours 
based on trust, integrity and openness.
1.  Demonstrating integrity in corporate 
conduct
2.  Ensuring openness and transparency
3.  Respecting human rights
4.  Enhancing customer experiences and 
business partnerships
5. Valuing our people
6.  Focusing on health, safety and security
7. Protecting the environment
8. Investing in communities
Our ongoing campaign to communicate these 
principles will help our employees, business 
partners and external audiences understand  
the standards we expect.
OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPl ES
