 5 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S State Ment
Upstream we invested around £2 billion  
in helping secure gas supplies for the UK. 
In parallel, we achieved first power from  
our Lincs offshore wind farm and worked 
with our partners in extending the life of 
our existing nuclear fleet. We took the 
decision not to participate in new nuclear 
construction with EDF due to higher 
anticipated costs and a lengthened 
construction schedule. This will enable us 
to return some of the capital we had raised 
for this purpose through a £500 million 
share repurchase programme.
In North America, a carefully executed 
strategy of operational efficiencies, organic 
growth and customer acquisition helped 
us to further expand our business – and 
we are well on the way to doubling 
profitability since 2009. With a change in 
the centre of gravity in our North American 
activities we moved the corporate 
headquarters from Toronto to Houston  
and our ambition to extend further our role 
in this market remains a strategic priority. 
The impact of shale gas in North America 
cannot be overstated and whilst its 
immediate effect has been to lower 
wholesale gas prices in the US market, 
there is no doubt it will influence global 
energy markets over time.
Our strategic vision is to be the leading 
integrated energy company, with 
customers at our core. The way in which 
we achieve this must reflect the changes  
in markets and sources of supply together 
with a constant assessment of costs  
and return for shareholders.
Our strategic vision is to 
be the leading integrated 
energy company, with 
customers at our core.
Review of the year 
It is now three years since we defined  
our	strategic	objectives	to	build	a	more	
sustainable, vertically integrated, cost 
effective and customer focused business 
with meaningful geographic diversity.  
We	were	clear	that	to	achieve	this	objective	
we would need to grow British Gas, 
acquire upstream assets on value creative 
terms and expand the scale of our North 
American activity.
I am pleased to confirm that in 2012 we 
demonstrated, through strong operational 
performance and acquisition, our 
considerable progress in achieving  
these strategic goals.
In the UK the year brought many 
challenges, with periods of colder weather 
compared to the very mild conditions of 
2011 contributing to higher energy bills,  
and with material changes in the regulatory 
environment. The management team  
dealt with all of the turbulence with great 
professionalism and commitment.
British Gas took the lead in simplifying tariffs 
and implemented changes consistent with 
Ofgem’s proposals for retail market reform. 
In parallel we continued to innovate with 
smart metering, to help consumers manage 
their energy usage, and to support 
customers with free insulation to reduce 
their consumption.
A relentless focus on cost management 
helped British Gas implement the lowest 
tariff	increase	of	all	the	major	energy	
suppliers, necessitated by higher 
wholesale energy costs, Government 
driven green energy costs and the 
imposition of additional infrastructure 
charges. Nevertheless, the very real 
concerns of hard pressed consumers, 
fuelled by external commentary, has 
impacted public trust in the industry  
and in British Gas as the nation’s largest 
energy supplier in particular.
Centrica is one of the UK’s most important 
companies, employing around 40,000 
people, keeping homes warm and well lit, 
securing future energy supplies, innovating 
and investing and paying substantial 
amounts of tax to the Treasury each year. 
We also have over 700,000 individual 
shareholders, all of whom benefit from the 
dividends the Company pays. Through our 
larger shareholders, many of them pension 
funds, our dividends also feed into the 
retirement savings of millions of people.  
It is important therefore that the Group 
continues to grow and invest. The 5% 
increase	in	adjusted	earnings	we	achieved	
in 2012 enabled us to invest more and to 
continue to grow our dividend in real 
terms. The importance of winning 
recognition for our contribution to the  
UK economy and building public trust 
continue to be priority items on our agenda.
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
Centrica is one of the 
Uk’s most important 
companies 6 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S StateM ent CO ntin Ued
Our aim in 2013 and beyond will be to 
focus on three strategic priorities – 
innovate to drive growth and service 
excellence, integrate our natural gas 
business linked to our core markets and 
increase our returns through efficiency  
and continued capital discipline.
We will achieve these goals by 
differentiating our UK business through  
our systems and innovation to provide a 
competitive edge and investing upstream 
for value, while maintaining our structural 
hedge. In North America we will grow our 
customer base and service business and 
seek to enhance our midstream and 
upstream position by acquisition when 
strategic fit and returns are attractive.
We believe that under the leadership  
of Sam Laidlaw we have developed a 
strong platform on which we can build a 
rewarding future for both customers and 
shareholders. This has been achieved  
with the considerable commitment of  
the management team and the skills  
and enthusiastic support of colleagues  
on both sides of the Atlantic.
The period ahead will bring new 
challenges. In order to ensure the 
organisation of our management team is 
appropriate for the task ahead, with effect 
from 1 July 2013 the Group will migrate 
from a regional structure to an international 
functional structure. Chris Weston will 
assume responsibility for downstream 
operations and Mark Hanafin will assume 
responsibility for upstream operations 
across the Group.
After a successful career spanning 12 
years with Centrica, Phil Bentley will be 
stepping down from his role as Managing 
Director of British Gas, and Board member 
of Centrica, on 30 June 2013 and will leave 
the Company by 31 December 2013.
Phil Bentley has made a substantial 
contribution to the development of the 
business, initially as Finance Director and 
for the last six years as Managing Director 
of British Gas.
In his most recent role he has been 
instrumental in restructuring, reinvigorating 
and materially improving the performance 
of the business by raising customer 
service, lowering costs and increasing 
productivity. As Chairman, and on behalf 
of the Board, I thank him for all that he has 
achieved and wish him every success for 
the future.
I am confident that the bench strength  
we	enjoy,	the	mindset	we	have,	the	new	
management structure and business 
model we have created will continue to 
deliver strong cashflows, enabling us to 
invest in customer service, supply security 
and shareholder reward.
Corporate culture
The Centrica business model is both  
wide ranging and complex, but its  
culture is simple and straightforward – 
professionalism, openness and 
transparency in the way we do things, 
together with integrity and honesty in  
how we do them.
An organisation is dependent upon its 
management and structure for the 
execution of strategy and its culture for  
the way in which its results are achieved.
1. Sir Roger Carr
Chairman
2. Sam Laidlaw
Chief Executive
3. Phil Bentley
Managing Director, British Gas
4. Margherita Della Valle
Non-Executive Director
5. Mary Francis CBE
Senior Independent Director
6. Mark Hanafin
Managing Director, Centrica Energy
7. Lesley Knox
Non-Executive Director
8. Nick Luff
Group Finance Director
9. Andrew Mackenzie
Non-Executive Director
10. Ian Meakins
Non-Executive Director
11. Paul Rayner
Non-Executive Director
12. Chris Weston
Managing Director, North America
Senior Executives
13. Grant Dawson
General Counsel & Company 
Secretary
14. Jill Shedden
Group Director, Human Resources
Our Board members
2 3 4 5 6 7 1 7 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Directors’ Report – Business Review Directors’ Report – Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors’ Report – Appendix
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
As a customer-facing business, respect  
for the individual, commitment to good 
service and adherence to the highest 
standards of behaviour in the customers’ 
homes or place of work are at the heart  
of what we do. Our core values seek to 
ensure our people are welcome and 
trusted wherever they go.
We employ around 40,000 people  
working in many countries and different 
environments from offshore rigs, to 
onshore plants, in administrative locations, 
on the road, in office premises and in 
customers’ homes. Caring for the welfare 
of our people wherever they are is our 
absolute priority.
In our health and safety policy no corners 
may be cut, nor costs trimmed, if it is at  
the expense of our people, customers, 
suppliers or contractors. This message  
is transmitted direct from the boardroom 
through management and reinforced in 
clear procedures, rigorous training and  
our incentive reward structure.
As a Board our focus is not simply on how 
much money the Company makes but 
how the Company makes money.
Corporate practice
In keeping with best practice, we oversee 
the Group worldwide through a unitary 
Board and six separate Committees – Audit, 
Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate 
Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure. 
Each Committee has agreed terms of 
reference and schedules a series of meetings 
throughout the year with disciplined agendas. 
Each Committee is professionally chaired 
and populated by an appropriate mix of 
Non-Executive and/or Executive Directors.
nationals – three are women and three men, 
three in full time executive employment and 
three who have a number of non-executive 
roles in both public and private companies.
Our most recent appointments to the Board 
over the last 24 months have brought both 
current operational experience and fresh 
perspective, and reinvigorated the debate 
and discussion.
Diversity
Centrica is strongly committed to the 
merits of diversity in all its forms at Board 
level and throughout the Group.
Twenty five percent of the Board are 
women. As a founding Chairman of the 
30% Club, I have long believed that the 
attainment of any role must be by merit, 
but that gender diversity can be an  
added value. Centrica is committed to 
maintaining its current level of women on 
the Board and would increase the 
percentage if the skills of the individual 
were appropriate and in keeping with the 
business need. This commitment is not  
a function of governance box-ticking but  
a belief that it is in the best interests of 
the business.
Our success in achieving a desirable mix at 
the Executive Committee level has been 
less successful with currently only one 
woman on a Committee of seven. We are 
working hard to address this issue through 
a variety of measures and I am confident 
we will increase the appointment of women 
in executive roles at the highest level.
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
In addition to normal business, the work  
of the Committees is supported by training 
sessions on topics of particular relevance 
when Non-Executives require a more 
detailed understanding. Training is given  
by both members of the Centrica 
management team and external advisors.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee is 
also informed by an external advisory body 
of specialists in energy and consumer 
affairs	who	are	able	to	give	objective	
comment on policy, performance and 
governance standards of the Company 
from an outsider’s perspective.
Each Committee reports to the Board  
after every meeting to ensure a 
comprehensive briefing is given to 
Board members on progress in all areas.
Board composition
The Board comprises myself as Non-
Executive Chairman and eleven other 
Directors of which six are Non-Executive.
We have sought to ensure we have a 
balanced Board where individual merit and 
relevance are the key entry requirements 
but collectively we have an appropriate mix 
of gender, nationalities and skills to ensure 
constructive debate and thoughtful 
decision making. In addition, we believe it 
is important to maintain a blend within the 
Non-Executive group where some are in 
full time executive employment and others 
are pursuing a portfolio non-executive 
career path. 
In addition to myself as Chairman, our 
current Non-Executives comprise one 
Australian, one Italian and four British 
GOv ERn An CE PAGE 52 
BIOGRAPh IES PAGE 154 8 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review – Chairman’s Statement
Chai RMan’ S StateM ent CO ntin Ued
Board composition planning
Over the last two years we have completed 
the first phase of refreshing the Board in 
keeping with the requirement for ensuring 
independence of mind and relevance of 
skills. Our last three appointments have 
included two with full time executive roles 
to bring relevant operational and financial 
experience to the Board and one with  
a broader non-executive skillset drawn 
from her experience in finance and as a 
non-executive and chairman of other 
boards. These appointments have assisted 
a generational change in Board 
membership and provided required 
replacement chairmanship skills in both 
remuneration and audit.
Following the announcement by BHP 
Billiton in February 2013 of the appointment 
of Andrew Mackenzie as CEO it is with 
regret that we have accepted Andrew’s 
resignation as a Non-Executive Director  
of Centrica with effect from 10 May 2013. 
Andrew will not, therefore, seek re-election 
as a Director at the Annual General 
Meeting to be held on 13 May 2013.
In light of the increased content of 
upstream activity and our wider presence 
in North America, we have commenced  
a search for an additional Non-Executive 
with strong upstream credentials in North 
America. It is hoped that this appointment 
will be made in the first half of 2013.
Sadly two of our Non-Executives, Mary 
Francis and Paul Rayner, will complete 
their nine-year term of office in 2013. Both 
have made a material contribution to the 
Board and both will ultimately be a loss  
to the business. To preserve corporate 
memory and avoid undue disruption  
at one time, I intend to stagger their 
departure such that Paul Rayner remains 
on the Board to 31 December 2013 and 
Mary Francis continues in her capacity  
as Senior Independent Director during 
2014. Whilst technically this exceeds their 
nine-year term, the Board has confirmed 
that they remain independent in character 
and	judgement	and	I	believe	taking	this	
approach to be in the best interests  
of the Company. 
With these changes in mind, the role of 
Chairman of the Audit Committee, which 
has been undertaken by Paul Rayner, will 
be handed over to Margherita Della Valle  
at the time of the half year results in 2013. 
Mary Francis will remain Chairman of the 
Corporate Responsibility Committee for 
the duration of 2013.
A search will be initiated for the 
replacement of both Paul Rayner and  
Mary Francis in the second half of 2013 
with a specification of skills and background 
to be determined in keeping with the 
demand of the business model at that time.
Board evaluation
Our policy over many years has been  
to conduct a thorough review of Board 
process, practice and culture on an annual 
basis with the input of an external facilitator 
at least once every three years. 
At the end of 2011 we appointed 
Independent Board Evaluations (IBE) to 
conduct an external review and carefully 
considered their findings that they 
recommended to ‘make a good board 
great’. The main observation was on the 
importance of allocating sufficient time for 
strategic discussion over the course of  
the year’s Board meetings rather than 
concentrating our efforts at an annual  
offsite strategic review session. IBE also 
recommended sharing more detail  
of the individual Committee meetings at  
Board updates and encouraging all 
Executive Directors to participate more fully 
in Board discussion on areas outside their 
day to day responsibility. 
In 2012 we adopted all of these 
recommendations to good effect, resulting 
in fuller participation by all Board members 
and a more regular review of the strategic 
development of the Group in a rapidly 
changing external environment. In 
December 2012, we conducted an internal 
Board evaluation comprising a written 
questionnaire followed by discussion in 
order to evaluate the success of the 
changes made and identify points to  
be addressed in the next twelve months. 
Based on the responses, all Directors 
concluded that there had been 
considerable improvement in both the 
quality and frequency of strategic 
discussion. All were now satisfied with  
the progress made and the contribution  
of all Board members. Looking forward, 
there were no issues on process or 
divisions on strategy.
 
Sir Roger Carr
Chairman 
27 February 2013
Our business principles
Our group-wide business 
principles create a framework  
to help us make decisions in  
line with a consistent set of 
operating behaviours based on 
trust, integrity and openness.
1. Demonstrating integrity in corporate conduct.
2. Ensuring openness and transparency.
3. Respecting human rights.
4. Enhancing customer experiences and business partnerships.
5. Valuing our people.
6. Focusing on health, safety and security.
7. Protecting the environment.
8. Investing in communities.
CORPOR ATE RESPOn SIBIl IT y PA G E 39
