 Overview
Advanced Computer Software plc
Annual Report 2010
6
Vin Murria 
Chief Executive
Chief Executive’s review
Advanced has the clearly defined strategy 
to be a leading provider of software  
and services to the health, care and 
commercial markets. 
During the year, we have, by  
a combination of organic growth and 
selected strategic acquisitions, broadened  
our healthcare focus from the out-of-hours 
and unscheduled medical care market  
to the wider out-of-hospital primary care 
market which includes both private and 
public sectors and covers health centres, 
pharmacies, district nurses, care homes, 
hospices and palliative end-of-life care  
– in short the entire patient journey.
We have also acquired a range of products 
for commercial applications and added a 
managed services capability to underpin 
all Group offerings. Advanced Computer Software plc
Annual Report 2010
7
Overview Business review Governance Financials
Advanced has grown organically by identifying new markets for existing 
products in the Group and has combined existing and acquired technologies 
and expertise to create new opportunities. For example, the functionality of 
Healthy Software’s Crosscare product has been combined with the Adastra 
patient workflow solution to create a new patient management solution for 
community health and wellbeing applications which has the potential to be 
extended to cosmetic and dental clinic settings. We are also particularly 
excited about our partnership with Pfizer for the support of their NHS vascular 
health check service using our core patient management software provided 
on a Software-as-a-Service (‘SaaS’) basis and believe that this is the first of 
many similar applications for our software.
The acquisitions of StaffPlan, Healthy Software and COA have extended  
our product portfolio to include software solutions for accounting, document 
management, workforce scheduling, human resource management, 
back-office administration, operational intelligence and analytics. All  
these products are targeted at both the public and commercial sectors. The 
acquisition of BSG has added hosting and managed services capabilities  
that are increasingly being recognised by healthcare authorities and other 
organisations as ways to achieve cost savings when budgets come  
under pressure.
Restructuring and integrating our acquired businesses quickly and  
effectively is part of our strategy to improve operating efficiency. Following 
the successful restructuring of Adastra reported last year, Advanced  
acquired BSG in June 2009. The post-acquisition review concluded that  
its low margin hardware infrastructure sales operation would benefit from 
being outsourced to BT Engage, so releasing cost savings from premises and 
allowing management to focus on higher margin business more appropriate 
to the Group’s strategy. This plan was successfully executed in July 2009, 
resulting in the operating margin of BSG improving from below 1% to 13%. 
The Board is currently reviewing the operations of COA, acquired at the year 
end, and is confident of achieving significant cost savings and synergies in 
the short term to improve the operating margin for this business. At the date 
of this report annualised cost savings and synergies of over £2m have been 
identified; COA’s, accounting, document management and payroll products 
have been rolled out across several Group companies; and senior 
management and head office functions of both Advanced and COA have 
been integrated to provide a new robust infrastructure for the Group.
I am personally looking forward to another year of growth and opportunity. 
Advanced has achieved a great deal since it began trading in August  
2008 – its pro-forma* revenue is now over £91m and EBITDA more than  
£21m, and we expect to build upon this success in the coming year.
Vin Murria
Chief Executive Officer
30 July 2010
*   Pro-forma revenue and EBITDA includes the results of the acquired subsidiaries as if they had been  
acquired on 1 March 2009.
