 Overview
Advanced Computer Software plc
Annual Report 2010
4
Michael Jackson 
Chairman
Chairman’s statement
This year has been one of transformation  
for Advanced, which has acquired five 
companies as part of its strategy to be  
a leading provider of software and services 
to the health, care and commercial markets. 
Revenues have grown by 312% to £30.2m 
(2009: £7 .3m), including organic growth  
of 8%, adjusted EBITDA* rose 249% to £7 .2m 
(2009: £2.1m) and pre-tax profits were up 
281% to £4.2m.
*   Adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit from operations before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation,  
one-off restructuring costs, aborted transaction costs and share based payments. Advanced Computer Software plc
Annual Report 2010
5
Overview Business review Governance Financials
I am pleased with our results which reflect a strong contribution from our  
first acquisition Adastra, acquired in August 2008, and good contributions 
from companies acquired during the year. Visibility of future turnover  
is excellent with 55% recurring revenue from maintenance, hosting and 
services contracts.
Of the companies acquired during the year, StaffPlan Limited (‘StaffPlan’) 
and Healthy Software Limited (‘Healthy Software’) specialise in software for 
the health and social care sector; Business Systems Group Limited (‘BSG’)  
and COA Solutions Limited (‘COA’) provide products and managed services 
to both the public and commercial sectors; and Oak Labs India Private, with 
its high quality, low cost, off-shore base in Bangalore, significantly enhances 
our product development capabilities. Furthermore with COA, we also 
acquired an efficient infrastructure around which to consolidate our back 
office operations.
In March, just after the year-end, we acquired Cerrus Limited (‘Cerrus’)  
which provides systems to manage delivery of care, resource planning and 
operational requirements of more than sixty community health and social 
care providers in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
We have broadened our product and services portfolio during the year to 
encompass pharmacy services, the emergency services, charities, residential 
and domiciliary care providers, hospices, human capital and financial 
management solutions. We have entered new markets by adapting and 
redeveloping products already owned within the Group and have added 
new capabilities that offer substantial opportunities for cross-selling across  
our enlarged customer base.
At Advanced our expectations are high and I would like to sincerely  
thank my fellow directors and all Group employees for living up to these 
expectations in what has been an exciting and productive year. Despite  
the backdrop of economic uncertainty we have continued to take on new 
challenges whilst keeping firmly focused on our core business.
We now have a strong platform for further growth. No doubt there will be 
challenges arising from the anticipated cutbacks in public spending but we 
are confident that our products and services will thrive as we continue to offer 
our customers new and more cost-effective ways to manage their operations.
Michael Jackson
Chairman
30 July 2010
