 Chief Executive’s strategic review
With over 7 ,000 customers and more  
than 850 employees, Advanced is  
now the fifth largest UK provider of 
software to the UK market (source: 
Techmarket 2010). In less than three 
years, turnover has grown from  
£7 .3m to £95.4m.
Vin Murria 
Chief Executive
Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2011
6 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2011
7
Overview Business review Governance Financials
Originally formed to consolidate a fragmented 
healthcare sector, we have identified and acquired  
four businesses since 2009 enabling us to extend our 
initial core patient management software offering for  
the primary care sector to community and social  
care providers. 
In 2009, finding that many healthcare businesses  
were overvalued, we broadened our search to include 
targets offering managed services and back office 
applications that could either be cross-sold into health 
and care organisations or provide a platform for growth 
into other niche markets. 
The acquisition of Business Systems Group Holdings plc 
providing managed services, hosting and Cloud 
enablement to a wide range of customers in the 
financial services, retail and not for profit sectors  
took place in June 2009. 
The acquisition of COA Solutions specialising in 
accounting and back office software solutions followed in 
February 2010 and not only increased our revenues and 
profits significantly , but also provided us with an efficient 
and robust infrastructure and experienced management 
team to use as a platform for future expansion.
During the year, we strengthened our product range  
for community care and social care providers through 
the acquisition of Cerrus and Caresys, each providing 
complementary case management and administrative 
support applications. The functionality of the two main 
products has been combined in one product going 
forward to streamline future development and improve 
the customer experience and we believe we are now 
well-placed to benefit from the surge in the community 
and social care market that will inevitably result from 
the rapidly ageing population and the push for care  
in the community.
In addition to integrating our acquisitions, we have 
retained our focus on organic growth and continue  
to develop our core patient management software 
applications to take advantage of new opportunities  
in healthcare. We have set up strategic partnerships 
with major mobile telephony organisations to expand 
the reach of our time-saving and cost-effective iNurse 
and iConnect mobile applications for district nurses  
and community carers. Our solutions for summary 
patient care record and end-of-life register management 
are now widely in use across the UK and our solutions 
for case management and rostering, which are ideal  
for private healthcare and social care settings, are set  
to grow as a result of the NHS reform.
Cross-selling was a significant contributor to the Group’s 
results for the year, largely due to the collaboration of 
the Business Solutions and Managed Services divisions 
in supplying integrated hosted solutions for local 
authority shared services and healthcare organisations. 
We expect shared services to be increasingly specified 
by local authorities as pressure to cut costs continues  
to mount and we are confident that our solution  
works efficiently and securely with a clear resulting  
cost saving.
We have maintained our focus on operational 
performance, with cost reduction and efficiency 
measures high on the agenda. We have delivered  
the planned annualised savings of more than £2m 
following the integration of COA Solutions into the  
Group with synergies achieved from rationalising 
development centres, properties and senior 
management. These synergies contributed to the 
increased Group operating margin of 25% and  
at the same time, skills and processes were made 
available to the Group as a whole to optimise 
operational efficiency.
Outlook
We will continue to build and develop market-leading 
positions in our core markets of healthcare and business 
solutions. Future Health & Care acquisitions include 
further extensions of our patient care management 
software, whilst for Business Solutions we will be 
targeting businesses with complementary products  
to broaden our portfolio of back office solutions and 
provide further opportunities for cross-selling. 
I am very happy with progress made during the year 
and am looking forward to the next stage of building  
a substantial and increasingly profitable business for  
the future.
Vin Murria 
Chief Executive Officer 
15 July 2011
