 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2011
4
Chairman’s statement
Michael Jackson 
Chairman
I am pleased to report an excellent set  
of results for the first full year of trading 
following the acquisition of COA Solutions 
in February 2010 – which transformed  
the Group in terms of both scale and 
addressable markets. Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2011
5
Overview Business review Governance Financials
Revenues rose by 216% to £95.4m (2010: £30.2m), 
including organic growth of 4%, and adjusted EBITDA* 
rose 235% to £24.1m (2010: £7.2m) giving an improved 
adjusted EBITDA margin of 25%. Operating cash 
conversion** continues to be strong at 93% and  
net debt has decreased by £9.8m to £31.2m.
Approximately 57% of revenues were derived from 
maintenance, hosting and managed service contracts 
from the installed base of over 7 ,000 customers. 
Significantly our customer retention rate remained  
in excess of 95%, reflecting our focus on delivering  
value and excellent customer service.
A major focus for the year has been the integration  
of three recently acquired businesses: COA Solutions, 
acquired at the close of the previous financial year; 
Cerrus in March 2010 and Caresys in September 2010.
COA Solutions, now forming the major part of the 
Business Solutions division and specialising in financial 
and human capital management systems for the 
health, public and private sectors was, at £99.3m,  
our largest acquisition to date. The acquisition has 
transformed the Group, not only by contributing £57.5m  
of revenues and £16.8m of EBITDA, but also by providing 
a robust platform for future expansion. 
The acquisitions of Cerrus Ltd and Caresys Software Ltd, 
both providing solutions for the management of care, 
resource planning and operational requirements, 
extended our offering to community health and  
social care providers – a fragmented market that we 
believe offers opportunities for growth given the UK’s 
ageing population.
Our offshore development facility in Bangalore continues 
to thrive. We have also switched the development 
facility in Vietnam, which we gained as part of the 
acquisition of COA Solutions, to Bangalore in order  
to manage the development of the next generation  
of our products efficiently.
The Comprehensive Spending Review and NHS reforms 
set out in the July 2010 White Paper, have considerably 
changed Government spending plans during the year. 
The focus is now firmly on cost reduction, with increased 
demand for outsourcing and shared services. We have 
successfully addressed these three key requirements by 
continuing to provide innovative ways to reduce costs 
and increase efficiency via our mobile application 
portfolio and by collaborating, both across our business 
divisions and with our strategic partners, to offer a 
shared platform to local authorities and other public 
sector organisations. The ability to deliver our in-house 
software via the Cloud or as a managed service 
provides our customers with a further opportunity  
to reduce costs.
Following the annual review of our corporate 
governance policy and procedure, the Board believes 
that the appointment of an independent non-executive 
director is now appropriate and has commenced the 
search for a suitable candidate.
The Board has also considered whether the payment  
of a dividend is appropriate for the current year and  
has concluded that the payment of a dividend should 
remain on the agenda but be carried forward until such 
time as the Group’s bank debt was substantially repaid.
We have achieved a great deal during the year and 
believe our plans to grow and develop Advanced’s 
portfolio of healthcare and back office solutions will 
ensure an exciting and productive future. I thank my 
fellow directors and all Group employees for their 
willingness and determination to drive the business 
forward in these challenging times.
Michael Jackson
Chairman
15 July 2011
*  Adjusted EBITDA is defined as profit from operations before interest,  
tax, depreciation, one-off restructuring costs, share based payments  
and amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
**  The operating cash conversion rate is calculated as cash generated  
from operations as a percentage of acquired adjusted EBITDA pre 
capitalisation of research and development expenditure and post  
one-off reorganisation costs.
