 06
CERES POWER HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CERES POWER HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
Chief Executive’s Review
The	 Group	 is	 focusing	 on	 time	 to	 market	 and	 building	 an	 operational	 capability	 to	 grow	 the	 business
Business Environment
The external environment for the Group is 
becoming increasingly favourable due to  
a number of powerful drivers. Heightened 
consumer awareness of environmental issues 
coupled with higher energy bills are beginning  
to affect real spending decisions. 
Governments are implementing a wide range 
of regulatory and fiscal incentives on regional, 
national and international levels to encourage 
changes to current models of energy provision 
and to stimulate the uptake of more efficient 
and environmentally friendly alternatives. 
‘Micro-generation’, creating power at the  
point of use, is increasingly being seen  
as a compelling alternative to centralised 
generation. This is due to its inherent 
economic and environmental benefits, with 
high efficiency fuel cell technology now 
recognised as a potential key enabler.
Corporations in a range of industries across 
the Group’s supply chain are seeking  
new growth opportunities in this rapidly 
developing sector and are attempting  
to position themselves to thrive in an  
emerging decentralised energy world.
Business Strategy
The Group’s business strategy remains driven 
by global market opportunities for alternative 
energy products which can reduce carbon 
emissions and address the issues of energy 
savings, energy security and fuel poverty.
Products: Our product strategy is to focus  
on the development of Combined Heat and 
Power (CHP) market applications based  
on the core Ceres fuel cell module. The 
compact, cost-effective and robust nature  
of this module, together with its ability to 
operate on mains natural gas and packaged 
fuels, provides an excellent platform for the 
development of a range of closely related 
products. The Group’s wall-mountable CHP 
design enables mass market access for  
on-grid and off-grid applications, both in  
the UK and overseas.
Supply Chain: Development of strong supply 
chain partnerships is a vital element of the 
Group’s strategy. A key focus of our commercial 
activities continues to be securing upstream 
relationships with volume suppliers of raw 
materials, balance of plant components and 
machines for manufacturing. We are confident 
that continued progress on these activities  
will minimise business risk as we make the 
transition to volume manufacturing. 
Manufacturing: The Group is establishing  
its own mass manufacturing capability to 
produce fuel cells in volume, and is partnering 
with other companies for final assembly  
of CHP units. A Product Facility is being 
commissioned to validate key manufacturing 
processes ahead of the planned scale-up  
into the Mother Plant.
78%
of	all	residential	 	 boilers	sold	in	 Western	Europe	 	 are	wall-mounted
Source	–	BSRIA CERES POWER HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
07
CERES POWER HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
CERES POWER HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007  
Intellectual Property: The Group’s strategy 
is to register, protect and exploit its intellectual 
property (IP) assets, which form the basis  
of its unique technology and product range.  
A significant IP portfolio has been developed  
in the form of patents, trademarks and  
know-how. The portfolio covers a range  
of innovations spanning materials, product 
designs and manufacturing processes. Our 
background IP has enabled us to enter into 
supply chain and market channel relationships 
from a position of strength and so pave the 
way to maximise value capture.
Channels to Market: By partnering with 
companies which have millions of customers, 
the Group is building the necessary channels 
to get products to market in volume. We are 
delighted with the progress that has been 
achieved in our CHP programme with British 
Gas. A new relationship has also been 
established with EDF Energy Networks to 
address the market for energy security products. 
These residential CHP and energy security 
products have major potential in overseas 
markets which we plan to exploit over time  
as part of our global market entry strategy.
Business Operations
We have significantly de-risked the business 
over the past year by further developing 
product and manufacturing capabilities. The 
Group has also achieved meaningful growth in 
income from contracts as a result of securing 
further commercial agreements and delivering 
on government programmes. During the last 
twelve months, the Group has:
 Demonstrated an industry-leading  
wall-mountable CHP Unit capable of 
generating electricity and all of the hot 
water and central heating required for  
a typical UK home
 Met all milestones for private and public 
contracts, delivering income in excess  
of £1 million
 Secured a funded contract with EDF 
Energy Networks to design and build 
energy security products 
 Established global supply chain relationships 
for all key balance of plant components 
 Secured and completed the fit-out of a 
dedicated Product Facility to validate fuel 
cell mass manufacturing processes 
•
•
•
•
•
We continue to invest in our operational 
capabilities to minimise development  
lead-time, cost and technical risk and to 
maximise the potential for value capture as 
part of our product commercialisation path. 
Outlook
Building on the strong technical and 
commercial achievements of the past year,  
the Group is focusing on time to market and 
building an operational capability to grow the 
business. To deliver on these objectives and  
to secure emerging commercial opportunities, 
the priorities for 2008 are:
 Value engineer the CHP Unit, focusing  
on performance improvements and 
reductions in part-count, cost, size  
and weight
 Validate key mass manufacturing 
processes through statistical process  
trials in the Product Facility in preparation 
for volume scale-up
 Complete planning for the Mother Plant and 
secure an appropriate site for the facility 
 Deliver contract milestones under existing 
collaborative programmes with British Gas, 
EDF Energy Networks and other partners
 Grow revenues with existing partners and 
establish new market channel relationships
I look forward to reporting on further 
developments and progress during the
coming year.
Peter Bance
Chief Executive Officer
•
•
•
•
•
