 02
Ceres Power Holdings plc 
Annual Report 2009
Chairman’s Statement
Business overview
I am pleased to report on the financial 
results and achievements of the  
Group for what has been another 
successful year. Over the last twelve 
months the Group has achieved the 
key milestones and priorities that we  
set out and communicated to the 
market last year. In particular, the 
Group has successfully completed  
the Alpha phase of the Combined  
Heat & Power (‘CHP’) programme with 
British Gas, signed a residential CHP 
commercial contract with Calor Gas 
Limited and secured a facility for  
the mass manufacture of fuel cells. 
Together, these represent major steps 
forward in the development of a mass 
manufacturing capability and progress 
towards commercialisation of the Ceres 
Power CHP product.
The successful completion of the 
Alpha milestone means that we are 
now addressing the challenges of  
the Beta phase, which is focused  
on engineering product refinements 
and validation of the CHP product’s 
performance and reliability in 
consumers’ homes.
Despite the very challenging global 
economic climate, the Group has 
delivered another year of strong 
growth in commercial revenues 
reflecting the successful completion  
of key technical milestones in 
accordance with the Group’s  
go-to-market roadmap. During the 
year, the Group made significant 
investments in plant and machinery 
and human resources, increasing  
the underlying operating expenditure. 
This will continue as the Group 
scales-up operations towards CHP 
product launch in volume. As at 30 
June 2009, the Group held £23 million 
in net cash and financial assets.
Support for cleaner technologies 
increases
Since I reported to you last year, a 
number of major economies around  
the world have launched significant 
fiscal incentive programmes designed  
to stimulate the development and 
deployment of low-carbon technologies; 
in the United States alone, this 
programme is expected to be worth in 
excess of US$60 billion. This is a very 
welcome development and recognition 
that addressing carbon emissions, 
especially in the residential sector, is  
an essential part of the solution to  
climate change.
One such key green incentive is the 
feed-in tariff (‘FIT’) – a per-energy unit 
incentive payment for small-scale 
low-carbon electricity generation. FIT 
schemes are already widely used across 
the European Union where they have 
been used to encourage the 
deployment of small-scale distributed 
electricity generation, thereby avoiding 
the generation, transmission and  03
Ceres Power Holdings plc 
Annual Report 2009
Overview
The successful completion of the Alpha  
phase underpins the potential mass market 
opportunity of the Ceres CHP product for the  
UK residential market.
Source: Gearoid Lane, Managing Director British Gas New Energy
distribution losses of centralised power 
generation. There is also evidence that 
installation of small-scale generating 
assets by consumers results in their 
greater understanding and more 
efficient use of energy.
In July 2009, the UK Government 
announced that it will implement  
a FIT for residential microgeneration 
devices, including CHP fed by  
non-renewable fuels such as natural 
gas and LPG. The scheme is to be 
implemented in April 2010 and has  
the potential to substantially reduce  
the energy bills of consumers installing 
a Ceres CHP product. If the FIT is 
capitalised as an up-front payment,  
this could reduce or even eliminate  
the price premium compared to a 
condensing boiler, further emphasising 
the compelling consumer proposition. 
Ceres fuel cell CHP is one of the  
lowest cost ways to reduce the  
carbon footprint of homes and  
utilises the existing installation, service 
and maintenance infrastructure. 
Large-scale deployment of the 
technology can make a significant 
contribution towards meeting the 
Government’s 2020 emissions 
reductions targets.
People
The Board was pleased to welcome 
Jonathan Watkins as Chief Operating 
Officer, who joined the Ceres 
executive management team, 
bringing considerable experience  
in running global, technology-led high 
volume manufacturing operations.  
We are also very pleased to report that  
Phil Whalen joined Ceres Power as 
Technology Director, with extensive 
experience leading global technology 
teams across a variety of technologies, 
including engineered ceramics and 
control systems. Prior to joining Ceres 
Power, Phil was the Chief Technology 
Officer of Invensys plc and previously 
Director of Technology Strategy  
at Honeywell. Together with the 
recruitment of around 30 new staff,  
we are confident that we have the 
organisation and skills to deliver  
our plans.
We would like to thank Andrew Baker, 
who left the Group in December 2008, 
for his contribution to the Board, and 
Nigel Brandon, who steps down from 
the Ceres executive management 
team to take on the role of Chief 
Scientific Adviser to the Board.
We were delighted to appoint John 
Nicholas as Non-Executive Director and 
Chairman of the Audit Committee in 
February 2009. John’s broad business 
background and previous experience 
as a FTSE 100 Group Finance Director 
further strengthens the Board as the 
Group scales-up for mass market 
delivery of its products. We would also 
like to congratulate Sir David Brown on 
his appointment as Senior Independent 
Director of Ceres Power. 
On behalf of the Board I would like  
to record our thanks to all of our 
employees who, through their hard 
work and commitment, have enabled 
the Group to meet its challenging 
targets over the past year.
Brian Count
Chairman
