 02 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
Business 
Review
Business overview
The last twelve months have undoubtedly 
been challenging for the Group. There 
have been significant achievements 
during the year but we have also had 
to extend the timeline of the residential 
Combined Heat and Power (‘CHP’) 
commercialisation roadmap. We continue 
to believe that a Ceres Power fuel cell CHP 
product will be one of the lowest cost ways 
to reduce the carbon footprint of homes, 
offering consumers a very attractive 
proposition compared to grid supplied 
electricity and a condensing boiler and 
we remain confident of our ability to 
deliver the product in volume. 
Following the successful completion of 
the Alpha milestone in May last year, the 
Group commenced the Beta phase of 
the CHP programme with British Gas and 
set itself the following priorities for the 
ensuing period to September 2010:
Secure additional commercial  >
relationships with channel partners 
internationally;
Commence initial fuel cell  >
manufacturing operations in Horsham;
Design and build CHP products and  >
secure regulatory certification; and
Conduct testing of CHP products in  >
sheltered and commercial field trials.
The Group has achieved the first two of 
these priorities and made good progress 
towards the others.
In November 2009, the Group secured 
an important new supply and distribution 
In July 2010, the UK Government’s Department of 
Energy and Climate Change (‘DECC’) launched 
a consultation on the Microgeneration Strategy 
to examine how best to stimulate mass market 
deployment of microgeneration in the UK and bring 
energy self-production in reach of every household.
agreement with Bord Gáis Eireann for 
residential CHP products operating on 
natural gas for the Irish market (Republic 
of Ireland and Northern Ireland). This 
agreement includes milestone payments 
and a call-off order for products in volume 
and marks the Group’ s first international 
go-to-market commercial contract. 
The Group successfully completed 
the installation and commissioning of 
an initial fuel cell manufacturing line 
in its mass manufacturing facility in 
Horsham. In December 2009, the Group 
commenced operations in Horsham, 
manufacturing fuel cells off the initial 
production line and assembling fuel 
cells into fuel cell stacks and Fuel Cell 
Modules. The capacity of this initial 
manufacturing line is sufficient to supply 
the CHP products to be deployed in the 
Beta and Gamma phases and initial 
product sales ahead of volume ramp-up.
During the Beta phase, the Group has 
designed and built an initial batch of 
CHP products and tested these units  
in both unoccupied houses (sheltered 
field trials) and in Ceres’ facilities. As 
anticipated, the results from the testing 
identified a number of product reliability 
issues that have required both hardware 
and software modifications. However, 
these engineering changes have taken 
more time to resolve than was originally 
anticipated and this has necessitated  
a delay to the CE certification process 
with commercial field trials in occupied 
homes now expected to start in Q4 2010. 
The Group has also announced the 
extension of the Beta phase, to allow 
sufficient time to complete the required 
engineering iterations. As a result, we now 
expect that initial sales of the CHP 
product to British Gas will occur in mid 
2012 with an accelerated volume 
ramp-up six months thereafter. 
Notwithstanding this delay to the CHP 
programme, the Group has made 
significant progress during the year  
in developing the CHP product  
to meet the British Gas market 
requirements specification and 
building a manufacturing fuel cell 
capability to underpin the volume 
product launch. The Group also 
recently successfully conducted CHP 
product demonstrations for Directors 
of British Gas and Calor Gas at its new 
installer training area in Horsham.
In December 2009, we raised £30 million 
(after expenses) through a placing 
of 19 million new shares with existing 
shareholders and new investors. I would 
like to thank British Gas and our other 
major investors for their strong support 
during this fundraising. This has significantly 
strengthened the Group’ s balance sheet 
and has enabled the Group to continue 
to invest in the operational capabilities to 
deliver product in volume.
The Board is focused on installing 
CHP products in consumers’ homes 
and conducting the Beta field trials in 
partnership with British Gas. Successful  03 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
completion of these commercial field 
trials in preparation for initial product 
sales in mid 2012 should help create 
substantial shareholder value and assist 
our customers in meeting their strategic 
commitments to a low-carbon world.
Increasing support for microgeneration 
technologies
In my report to shareholders last year, 
I referred to the increased support for 
cleaner technologies and the launch of 
a number of fiscal incentive programmes 
to stimulate the development and 
deployment of low-carbon technologies. 
I am pleased to report that this trend 
has continued.
In the UK there have been a number 
of very welcome developments 
designed to stimulate residential 
microgeneration technologies. 
In April 2010, the UK Government 
implemented a Feed-in Tariff enabling 
customers installing microgeneration 
devices like the Group’s residential 
fuel cell CHP product to receive a 
financial incentive for generating 
electricity in their homes. This is a 
welcome development and should 
accelerate early uptake of our product 
by increasing the financial benefits to 
households. There is also increasing 
support to develop different consumer 
finance packages including ‘Pay as 
you Save’ that help to finance the 
up-front purchase price of low-carbon 
products such as residential fuel  
cell CHP . 
In July 2010, the UK Government’s 
Department of Energy and Climate 
Change (‘DECC’) launched a 
consultation on the country’s 
Microgeneration Strategy. This 
consultation will examine how best  
to stimulate mass market deployment 
of microgeneration in the UK and 
bring energy self-production in reach 
of every household. We welcome 
this consultation and look forward to 
working with DECC to explore ways 
in which mass market deployment of 
microgeneration can help address the 
challenges of energy efficiency, fuel 
poverty and energy security.
Up to 40% of the UK’s electricity can 
be generated in peoples’ homes and 
many new jobs can be created through 
supporting industries established to 
commercialise low-carbon technologies. 
We look forward to working with the UK 
Government to design cost-effective 
programmes that will stimulate mass 
market uptake of microgeneration and 
encourage the development of high 
technology industries in the UK.
People
The Board was pleased to appoint 
Dr. Phil Whalen as an Executive Director 
in January 2010. Phil joined the Group 
in July 2009 as Technology Director 
having been Chief Technology Officer 
of Invensys plc and previously Director 
of Technology Strategy at Honeywell 
International Inc. Phil is responsible 
for technology development, systems 
engineering and controls & electronics 
at Ceres and has helped to build an 
experienced and committed team.
The Group has continued to strengthen 
its senior management team 
recruiting experienced personnel in 
manufacturing, product engineering 
and supply chain management.
During the year, the Group announced 
that it had transferred its corporate 
headquarters from Crawley to Horsham, 
reflecting the shift in the Group’s focus 
to volume manufacturing. The facility in 
Crawley is now the Group’s dedicated 
Technology Centre.
During the year, our employees have 
been presented with, and have risen to, a 
series of challenges and the Board would 
like to thank them for their outstanding 
commitment during the year and their 
contribution to the continued growth and 
development of the business.
Brian Count
Chairman
 
As at 30 June 2010, the Group held £40.9 million in net cash  
and short-term investments
