 04 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
Business 
Review
In November 2009, 
the Group secured a 
£1.6 million funded 
supply and distribution 
agreement with 
Bord Gáis Eireann for 
residential CHP products 
operating on natural 
gas for the Irish market, 
marking the Group’s  
first international  
go-to-market commercial 
contract. 
(sheltered field trials) followed by CHP 
products being installed and operating 
in consumers’ homes (commercial 
field trials). In parallel, additional 
CHP products and sub-systems also 
undergo a rigorous programme of 
accelerated life testing in the Group’s 
Horsham and Crawley sites. In total, 
parts for up to 100 Beta units have 
been procured. 
In Q1 2010, the Group installed two initial 
CHP units in unoccupied houses as part 
of the sheltered field trials. The results 
from these trials, together with those 
from additional CHP products tested 
at the Group’s facilities, highlighted 
the product’s unique differentiators but 
also identified a number of product 
reliability issues. The systems engineering 
challenges associated with achieving 
the required product reliability and 
operating control strategy have required 
modifications to both hardware and 
software. The modifications involve 
working closely with the Group’s supply 
chain partners to design, procure, build 
and test replacement components and 
software code. This has taken longer 
than originally anticipated resulting in 
the announcement in July 2010 of a 
delay to CE certification and the start of 
commercial field trials from Q3 2010 into 
Q4 2010. 
The Group is continuing to build 
and test CHP products in its facilities 
Business review
I am pleased to report that Ceres 
Power has made significant progress in 
delivering some of the key priorities that 
I set out in last year’s Annual Report; 
however in some areas our progress 
has been slower than we had planned, 
reflecting the inherent challenges 
in developing and commercialising 
innovative breakthrough technology. 
We have continued to invest in the 
business to develop our operational 
capabilities in order to take the Group’s 
compact wall-mounted CHP product 
through to market in volume.
Residential CHP products
The Group commenced the Beta 
phase of the British Gas residential 
Combined Heat and Power (‘CHP’) 
programme following the sign-off of 
the Alpha phase in May 2009. The 
Beta phase involves a significant 
design iteration of the CHP product 
incorporating the refinements for 
product functionality and design for 
manufacture that were identified from 
the Alpha phase testing. 
The design, procure, build and test 
stages within the Beta phase are 
intended to validate in-field product 
performance and reliability including 
installation, service and maintenance. 
The testing phase includes operating 
CHP products in unoccupied houses  05 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
and has successfully addressed the 
majority of the product reliability 
issues identified. In parallel, the Group 
is working to resolve the remaining 
issues and completing the rigorous 
safety case for the final phase of CE 
certification. The installation of the first 
wave of CHP products in consumers’ 
homes will begin during Q4 2010, 
following completion of the CE 
certification process.
In light of the need to improve product 
reliability and the associated delay 
to the CE certification process and 
commencement of the commercial 
field trials, the Group has reviewed the 
overall go-to-market CHP programme 
with British Gas that was originally 
published in June 2008. Based on 
this review, the Board has decided 
to extend the Beta phase of the 
programme and we now expect initial 
product sales to commence in mid 
2012. We are working closely with British 
Gas to prepare for these initial product 
sales and an accelerated volume 
ramp-up six months thereafter.
The Group has also recently 
successfully conducted demonstrations 
of its CHP product for Directors of 
British Gas and Calor Gas at its new 
installer training area in Horsham. 
Significant progress has been made in 
developing the CHP product to meet 
the requirements for a successful mass 
market product. The Group has worked 
closely with British Gas engineers to 
simplify the CHP installation, service 
and maintenance processes, to 
facilitate installation in the widest range 
of housing types and thereby maximise 
the addressable market opportunity. 
In readiness for commencing the 
commercial field trials, the Group is 
implementing a dedicated in-field 
product support capability along with 
supporting business systems to respond 
to in-field needs in association with its 
commercial partners.
Feed-in Tariff 
The introduction of the Feed-in Tariff 
(‘FIT’) on 1 April 2010 offers consumers 
installing small-scale low-carbon 
electricity generators, like the Group’s 
residential fuel cell CHP product, a 
financial incentive for all electricity 
generated on-site. The FIT is designed 
to stimulate a significant increase 
in the amount of locally produced 
green electricity as a contribution to 
the wider shift of the UK energy mix to 
low-carbon generation and lead to 
greater consumer awareness of energy 
related issues. 
A household installing a Ceres Power 
CHP product would receive, for the 
expected ten-year lifetime of the 
product, a generation payment of 
10p/kWh for all electricity generated 
plus an additional export payment 
of 3p/kWh for any electricity that is 
not consumed in the home and is 
fed back into the grid. Households will 
still retain the savings on their energy 
bills (by consuming the electricity 
generated on-site rather than buying 
electricity from the grid) in addition 
to receiving the annual FIT payments. 
Ceres estimates that for a typical UK 
household the impact of the FIT would 
be to add an annual cashback to  
the household of hundreds of pounds 
in addition to the annual energy  
bill savings from operating the  
CHP product.
An objective of the FIT is to provide  
long-term certainty for investors and 
consumers whilst recognising that it is 
important to review and adapt it as 
circumstances change (e.g. technology 
costs). A review of the FIT is expected to 
be undertaken every three years 
beginning in 2013, with an interim 
review to help establish the appropriate 
FIT level that will apply after the first 
30,000 residential CHP products have 
been installed.
Ceres Power’s business model 
is to address the annual boiler 
installation market, which in the UK 
is approximately 1.5 million units per 
annum. The Ceres CHP product will be 
priced at a premium to conventional 
condensing boilers so that the annual 
Completed equity placing raising £30 million 
(net) from new investors and existing shareholders 
including British Gas 06 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
Business 
Review
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued
Feed-in Tariff
The introduction of the Feed-in Tariff (‘FIT’) on 1 April 2010 
enables consumers installing small-scale low-carbon 
electricity generators to receive a financial incentive for 
all electricity generated on-site. A household installing a 
Ceres Power CHP product would receive, for a period of ten 
years, a generation payment of 10p/kWh for all electricity 
generated plus an additional export payment of 3p/kWh 
for any electricity that is not consumed in the home and 
is fed back into the grid. Ceres estimates that for a typical 
UK household the impact of the FIT would be to deliver an 
annual cashback to the household of hundreds of pounds 
in addition to the ~25% annual energy bill savings from 
operating the CHP product.
The FIT is designed to stimulate a significant increase 
in the amount of locally produced green electricity as 
a contribution to the wider shift of the UK energy mix to 
low-carbon generation and lead to greater consumer 
awareness of energy related issues. 
electricity bill savings from the product 
provide an attractive payback on the 
initial investment. 
If the FIT payments over the ten year 
period are capitalised as a single 
up-front payment (for example by 
assignment to an energy supplier or 
a bank, as permitted under the FIT 
legislation), this would significantly 
reduce the price and potentially further 
accelerate market uptake. Alternative 
consumer financing schemes such 
as ‘Pay As You Save’ are being trialed 
by organisations including the Energy 
Saving Trust. British Gas is the only 
energy supplier chosen for the ‘Pay As 
You Save’ trial in the UK.
Technology
The Group has continued to make 
good progress towards achieving the 
British Gas market requirements in 
preparation for initial sales of its mains 
natural gas, integrated, wall-mounted 
CHP product. The CHP product has 
met the Beta performance targets, 
achieving net AC electrical efficiency 
of over 34% at rated power, with total 
CHP product efficiency of more than 
85%. The CHP boiler has achieved 
more than 96% net efficiency at 
25kW thermal. Electrical efficiencies 
measured on fuel cell stacks and 
Fuel Cell Modules were 58% and 44% 
respectively. CHP products and Fuel 
Cell Modules have been subjected to 
multiple rapid thermal cycles from cold 
to full operating temperature, as well as 
repeated rapid electrical load-following 
between <10% to 100% rated power 
without showing any measurable 
degradation in electrical efficiency or 
power output. These wall-mounted CHP 
products were built using fuel cells from 
the Group’s initial manufacturing line 
in Horsham and CHP boiler assemblies 
from Daalderop and the performance 
of the CHP product has been validated 
by independent third party testing 
companies. With efficiency and cycling 
ability demonstrated, the main focus 
will now be on improved reliability and 
durability of the product together with 
optimisation of product performance in 
real homes.
The Group has developed a rigorous, 
real-life computer model to predict  
the economic savings for Ceres  
CHP products in UK houses. The 
techno-economic modeling approach 
adopted includes realistic CHP product 
behaviour (e.g. starting up/s hutting 
down and different operating points  
in response to changing load/time 
factors) within a complete home 
energy system (e.g. central heating 
controls, electricity needs, hot water 
storage and actual tapping cycles) 
based on heat and power usage  
data over a complete annual cycle 
collected at five minute intervals from  
a range of actual UK houses. 
The model confirms that substantial 
annual energy bill savings are available 
to consumers installing a Ceres Power 
CHP product. For example, for an actual 
typical UK house with two occupants 
and an annual electricity demand of 
4,618kWh, the predicted annual energy 
bill savings delivered by a Ceres CHP 
product is £286 with a further £350 in 
annual FIT cashback payments, 
making a total annual consumer 
benefit of £636. This data, the model 
and methodology and the results have 
been validated by an independent 
third party expert in energy 
system modelling.
Manufacturing
During the year, the Group successfully 
completed the fit-out of its fuel cell 
mass manufacturing facility in Horsham 
and the installation and commissioning 
of an initial manufacturing line. 
In December 2009, the Group 
commenced operations in Horsham, 
manufacturing fuel cells on the initial 
production line and assembling fuel 
cells into stacks and Fuel Cell Modules. 
The Group has made significant 
process improvements to increase 
capacity and yield of key processes 
and this is expected to continue 
through the Beta and Gamma phases 
as well as thereafter as manufacturing 
volumes increase. The current initial line 
has sufficient capacity to manufacture 
fuel cells and assemble Fuel Cell  07 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
In December 2009, the 
Group commenced 
operations in Horsham, 
manufacturing fuel cells 
on the initial production 
line and assembling fuel 
cells into fuel cell stacks 
and Fuel Cell Modules.
Modules to meet the requirements of 
the Beta and Gamma phases through 
to initial sales. A combination of  
on-going process improvements and 
manufacturing optimisation to improve 
quality, together with additional 
investment, will enable scale up 
beyond initial sales.
The Group has worked with its CHP 
assembly partner Daalderop to 
ensure that the CHP boiler assembly is 
designed for volume manufacture with 
components being pre-assembled into 
five key sub-assemblies. This has been 
successfully achieved and Daalderop 
is now manufacturing CHP boiler 
assemblies in its volume plant based  
in Tiel, in the Netherlands.
Operations
During the year the Group has 
continued to recruit experienced 
engineers and senior managers 
in controls & electronics, systems 
engineering, supply chain 
management and product testing. The 
average number of people employed 
by the Group during the year increased 
by 33% to 100. 
A significant investment has also 
been made in installing the initial fuel 
cell manufacturing line in Horsham 
as well as the construction and 
commissioning of newly expanded test 
facilities at the Horsham and Crawley 
sites. The Group has completed the 
first phase of the new test facilities 
with new performance and durability 
test stands now operational and has 
commenced the second phase that 
is due for completion in H1 2011. The 
UK Government’s Technology Strategy 
Board is providing financial support of 
£0.8 million to facilitate this important 
new test infrastructure.
During the year, Ceres has continued  
to develop its operational and business 
systems with the implementation of an 
Enterprise Resource Planning system 
and enhancements to its quality 
processes. The system provides the 
Group’s financial accounting and 
reporting information, and will support 
internal and external activities relating 
to manufacturing, supply chain 
management and procurement as 
part of the Group’s scale-up plans. Work 
is continuing on the development and 
roll-out of the Group’s wider Quality 
Management Systems. 
Commercial
In my review last year, I set securing 
additional commercial relationships 
with go-to-market channel partners 
internationally as a priority for the 
Group. I am pleased to report that in 
November 2009, the Group secured an 
important new supply and distribution 
agreement with Bord Gáis Eireann 
(‘BGE’) for residential CHP products 
Of the total emissions from human activity (at the 
point where electricity is consumed and fuel is 
used), 29% came from households
1
1 IEA (2008), Worldwide Trends in Energy Use  
and Efficiency 08 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
Business 
Review
Bord Gáis Eireann
In November 2009, the Group secured an important 
new supply and distribution agreement with Bord Gáis 
Eireann (‘BGE’) for residential CHP products operating on 
natural gas for the Irish market. This marks the Group’s first 
international customer contract as part of its expansion 
plans beyond the UK. Under this agreement, BGE is paying 
£1.6 million in milestone payments to Ceres Power during the 
development and trialing phase, and has agreed to place a 
call-off order for 16,000 CHP products over a four-year period 
for the Irish market. 
Bord Gáis Energy, the retail arm of BGE, is Ireland’s leading 
dual fuel energy supplier selling natural gas and electricity 
to all market segments. BGE also provides domestic 
appliance servicing to customers, focusing on boiler service 
and repair. With more than 2.5 million homes in the island 
of Ireland with relatively poor overall efficiency levels, Ceres 
and BGE intend to maximise sales of the CHP product by 
addressing both the installed base as well as the annual 
boiler replacement market.
operating on natural gas for the 
Irish market (Republic of Ireland and 
Northern Ireland). This marks the 
Group’s first international customer 
contract as part of its expansion plans 
beyond the UK.
Bord Gáis Energy, the retail arm of 
BGE, is Ireland’s leading dual fuel 
energy supplier selling natural gas 
and electricity to all market segments. 
BGE also provides domestic appliance 
servicing to customers, focusing on 
boiler service and repair. BGE has 
recently announced a major energy 
efficiency Home Services Initiative 
offering homeowners a full-scale 
energy efficiency service. 
Under the agreement, BGE is paying 
£1.6 million in milestone payments to 
Ceres Power during the development 
and trialing phase, including an 
up-front payment of £1 million which 
was received in February 2010. In 
addition, BGE has agreed to place a 
call-off order for 16,000 CHP products 
over a four-year period for the Irish 
market, conditional upon successful 
completion of the development and 
trialing phase and agreement of 
standard commercial terms. With more 
than 2.5 million homes in the island 
of Ireland with relatively poor overall 
energy efficiency levels, Ceres and 
BGE intend to maximise sales of the 
CHP product by addressing both the 
The Group is continuing 
to explore longer term 
opportunities for CHP 
products in other 
international markets 
in conjunction with 
potential partners, in 
particular in those 
countries where the 
Group’s unique flexible 
generation technology 
can reduce strain on the 
electricity network and 
enable the development 
of a ‘smart grid’.
installed base as well as the annual 
boiler replacement market. 
The Group is continuing to explore 
longer term opportunities for CHP 
products in other international markets 
in conjunction with potential channel 
partners, and in particular in those 
countries where the Group’s unique 
flexible generation technology can 
reduce strain on the electricity network 
and enable the development of a 
‘smart grid’.
Financial
Commercial revenue for the year 
decreased to £0.8 million (2009: 
£1.0 million), reflecting the Group’s 
accounting policy of recognising 
up-front milestone payments from 
development contracts as revenue 
when earned, based on costs incurred 
over the Beta and Gamma phases. 
The difference between milestone 
payments received and revenue 
recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income 
is recorded on the balance sheet 
as £3.2 million (2009: £3.0 million) of 
deferred income. Other operating 
income arising from government grants 
was £0.6 million (2009: £0.5 million). 
Operating costs for the year increased 
by 35% to £14.5 million (2009: £10.7 
million) as planned. This increase 
arose partly from the annualised effect 
Chief Executive’s Review
Continued 09 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
of the investments that were made 
last year in people and the Horsham 
manufacturing facility together with 
the additional spend in the current 
year. The spend in the current year 
consists of additional recruitment 
of experienced senior managers 
and control systems and systems 
engineering staff together with the 
development, procurement and other 
costs of the Beta phase. 
Interest receivable fell by 42% to £0.5 
million (2009: £0.8 million) primarily 
as a result of lower average interest 
rates for the year. During the year the 
Group recorded a fair value loss of 
£0.1 million arising on the redemption 
of the holding of UK Government gilts 
in December 2009; this unwinds the 
cumulative net gain recorded in the 
previous year. The Group recorded an 
income tax credit of £1.1 million (2009: 
£0.3 million) representing the estimated 
R&D tax credit due in respect of 2010  
of £0.6 million plus an adjustment of 
£0.5 million received in respect of 2009. 
The loss for the financial year 
attributable to shareholders rose 
by 47% to £11.7 million (2009: £8.0 
million). This reflects the additional 
costs incurred in the Beta phase and 
the scaling-up of the Group’s fuel cell 
manufacturing operations. The average 
number of shares in issue during the 
year increased to 77.3 million primarily 
as a result of the effect of the placing 
(2009: 66.8 million), and the loss per 
ordinary share increased by 27% to 
15.16 pence (2009: 11.94 pence).
The net cash used in operating 
activities increased by £6.5 million 
to £10.0 million (2009: £3.5 million) 
primarily due to the £3.8 million 
increase in operating expenses and 
the absence of the favourable working 
capital movement of £3.9 million that 
was recorded in 2009. Cash outflow 
attributable to the purchase of property, 
plant and equipment (net of £0.3 
million grants received) was £2.6 million 
(2009: £2.1 million) largely relating to 
the purchase of fuel cell manufacturing 
and stack assembly equipment and 
test infrastructure, resulting in a total 
equity-free cash outflow for the year of 
£12.3 million. In December 2009, the 
Group issued 19 million new shares 
at 165 pence per share, raising £30.0 
million (net of expenses). As a result of 
this placing, cash inflow from financing 
activities increased by £30.1 million to 
£30.2 million (2009: £0.1 million). 
Following the placing, the Group’s 
balance sheet remains strong with 
£40.9 million (2009: £23.0 million) in  
net cash and cash equivalents and 
short-term investments at the year end. 
The Group’s treasury policy is to invest 
all surplus funds in short-term low-risk 
‘AAA’-rated money market funds and 
Cerium Gadolinium Oxide (‘CGO’) is the electrolyte material  
used in the Group’s unique low temperature metal-supported  
fuel cell design that enables the use of proven cost-effective 
materials and a robust fuel cell stack design
short-term deposits at banks with high 
credit ratings. The primary objective is 
capital preservation by investing in 
low-risk, high quality investments.
Outlook
The Board and senior management 
team are focused on the successful 
completion of the Beta phase of the 
residential CHP programme with British 
Gas and building the operational 
capabilities to enable us to deliver 
initial product sales in mid 2012, as 
a platform for a volume ramp-up. To 
achieve these goals, our priorities for 
the next twelve months are to achieve 
CE certification of the CHP product, 
install CHP products in occupied 
consumers’ homes and commence 
commercial field trial testing in 
preparation for initial sales.
I look forward to reporting on the 
successful delivery of these objectives.
Peter Bance
Chief Executive Officer
