 04 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
“We believe that Ceres 
Power’s innovative 
technology has the 
potential to offer a 
unique value proposition. 
We are working closely 
with Ceres Power to bring 
their CHP product to our 
customers in the UK and 
enable them to generate 
flexible, low-carbon 
electricity in their own 
home and reduce their 
energy bills. ”
Gearóid Lane, Managing Director of 
British Gas New Markets
generating electricity on demand 
powering a range of domestic 
appliances. The unique ability of 
the CHP fuel cell product to respond 
automatically and rapidly to real-time 
changing energy needs in the home 
was also demonstrated. Our partner 
British Gas has confirmed that the 
ability of the CHP product to increase 
or decrease power output on demand 
will enable access to the broadest 
range of UK households as target 
customers and will be of significant 
value to energy utility companies.
During Q1 2011, and in partnership 
with British Gas, Ceres completed 
the installation of five CHP units in 
family homes across South East 
England directly replacing the 
existing conventional gas boilers. 
The field trial units delivered central 
heating, hot water and power to the 
homes and controlled themselves 
automatically, responding in real-time 
to the home’s energy needs using a 
combination of the CHP unit’s Fuel 
Cell Module (‘FCM’) and boiler. 
The purpose of this first wave of field 
trials was to gain valuable real-world 
experience and to identify issues 
ahead of deploying the next wave of 
field trial units in consumers’ homes. 
I am delighted to join Ceres Power  
as Chief Executive Officer and excited  
by the global potential of the Ceres  
Combined Heat and Power (‘CHP’) 
product and the opportunity to 
lead this Group to a successful and 
vibrant future, delivering significant 
value to all its stakeholders.
My first priority, since my appointment 
in September 2011, has been to 
conduct a detailed review of the 
business and the plan to achieve 
mass market uptake of the Group’s 
CHP product, with specific focus on 
the status of the core technology 
and our internal product validation 
programme. Ceres Power has had a 
challenging year and although there 
have been setbacks which have had 
an impact on the commercialisation 
timeline, we should not lose sight 
of the enormous progress that has 
been made in the development of 
our low-cost, wall-mounted residential 
fuel cell CHP product and the 
platform this now provides to mass 
market uptake of the technology. 
In September 2010, we demonstrated 
a compact CHP unit installed on 
a kitchen wall delivering heat for 
hot water and central heating and  05 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Technology progress
The Group has made substantial 
progress in a number of different 
areas relating to the core fuel cell 
technology. Significant improvements 
have been achieved in reducing 
the rate of power degradation and 
increasing long-term cell durability 
under real-world operating conditions.
In March 2011, the Group reported 
that the in-home field trial units had 
experienced reliability and durability 
issues. We have made significant 
progress in resolving all these issues:
 > boiler tuning and calibration issue 
causing ignition lock-out has been 
addressed;
 > shutdown of FCMs due to water 
management has been addressed;
 > interconnect corrosion and 
resulting power degradation has 
been addressed with an improved 
coating through better control of 
the heat treatment process;
 > debris from FCM insulation causing 
power degradation has been 
addressed. There is no evidence 
of any ongoing impact on FCM 
power degradation. Testing is 
continuing to determine the impact, 
if any, of low level contaminants on 
long-term degradation;
 > cell delamination has been 
addressed through minor 
modifications to cell chemistry 
and refinements to the operating 
strategy. Development and testing 
work is under way to further 
strengthen cell layers and optimise 
performance; and
 > the operating strategy of the FCM 
used in the initial field trials has 
been confirmed as a significant 
cause of power degradation. A 
revised operating strategy has been 
developed and, in conjunction 
with improved measurement of 
operating temperature and tighter 
control of water and fuel flow to the 
stack, has significantly reduced the 
power degradation mechanism. 
These improvements are currently 
being validated and the operating 
strategy optimised.
Analysis of the power degradation 
measured in cells operating in the 
initial field trial CHP units showed 
that a significant root cause of 
power loss was cyclic oxidation of 
the anode. This can occur when fuel 
is interrupted and electronic and 
physical leakage is present in the cells. 
The Group has virtually eliminated 
electronic leakage and significantly 
reduced physical leakage of the 
cells through minor modifications to 
cell layer chemistry and improved 
control of the fuel cell manufacturing 
process. Reducing cell leakage has 
also increased the cell operating 
potential to near theoretical limits 
which reduces the cell heat to power 
ratio to the lowest levels possible.
 
The new generation of cells has been 
subjected to aggressive, accelerated 
stack testing under conditions which 
stress the anode interface through 
multiple hot relight and load cycling 
events. The new cells have shown 
a substantial improvement, with 
stacks consistently withstanding over 
1,000 hot relight events with minimal 
degradation compared to the rapid 
degradation measured in the previous 
cell generation used in our initial field 
trials. The robustness of the new cells 
to load cycling was demonstrated 
using an FCM running on methane 
subjected to an accelerated test 
plan of 800 rapid load cycles. 
No measurable degradation was 
recorded, providing validation of 
the cell’s tolerance to electronic 
stresses caused by load cycling. 
By designing our product to retrofit in place of a 
conventional heating appliance, Ceres Power can 
access an existing market of more than 18 million 
units per annum globally
2
2 BSRIA/AHRI/US DoE/Natural Resources Canada 06 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued
Water and fuel flows and temperatures 
are highly integrated and therefore 
must all operate in concert to 
provide accurate delivery and 
control of conditions within the FCM. 
Improvements have been made 
in the accuracy of the flow and 
measurement control of both water 
and fuel in the system through minor 
hardware and software changes. 
By adopting operating strategies 
which are compatible with the 
operating tolerances of the entire 
control system and which also 
prevent or minimise the likelihood of 
cell anode oxidation, we achieve 
significantly improved stack durability. 
Taken in total, the improvements 
in cell leakage reduction, input 
control and operating strategy 
refinement have resulted in a 
significant step forward in achieving 
the long-term durability targets. 
A significant contribution to long-term  
cell degradation is the gradual 
increase in cell electronic series 
resistance that is believed to arise 
from an increased level of metal 
interconnect corrosion. The Group has 
developed improved interconnect 
designs which provide the same level 
of interconnect corrosion resistance 
and actually increase the power per 
cell. Short stack testing completed 
to date (~3,000hrs) with production 
interconnect coating materials 
and the optimised heat treatment 
conditions have achieved power 
and cell voltage degradation rates of 
1%/1,000hrs. The Group will continue 
to perform both accelerated and 
long-term testing under all potential 
operating conditions in conjunction 
with the general field trial programme 
and we are confident of achieving 
further improvements in cell durability 
and long-term degradation. 
 
Route to achieve mass market 
uptake of Ceres CHP product
It is clear from my review that Ceres 
has unique technology and the 
potential to be a world-class company 
with the ability to lead the sector. 
I have been very impressed with the 
technical and operational capability 
in the business. Of significant note 
is that during the past two years, 
the Group has undertaken to 
simultaneously develop its core 
technology, design and engineer 
the complete CHP product, whilst 
building a capable engineering 
and manufacturing organisation; 
this would be a challenge even 
for a well-established company. 
We are now enhancing our 
organisational capability further 
and implementing improvements 
to key processes to reduce overall 
programme delivery risk; underpinning 
this will be an improvement in 
overall organisational effectiveness. 
These changes will improve the 
Group’s competency to manage 
product programmes, rapidly 
solve product issues and deliver 
a low risk scale-up capability.
The current compact CHP 
design forms the basis of our first 
generation residential product. 
This already integrates a boiler and 
FCM in a single wall-mounted unit 
and demonstrates a commercially 
distinctive size, weight and value 
In July 2011, Ceres Power welcomed the Minister of State for Business 
and Enterprise, Mark Prisk MP , to conduct the official opening of its 
volume fuel cell manufacturing facility in Horsham. 
Ceres Power has created more than 160 highly skilled ‘Green Collar’ 
jobs at the manufacturing facility in Horsham and the technology 
centre in Crawley. As part of the Group’s plans for a mass market 
launch of the CHP product in the UK, the manufacturing facility 
could be expanded to produce up to 30,000 fuel cell CHP products 
per annum creating substantial additional skilled jobs in advanced 
manufacturing engineering, manufacturing operations and in the 
local supply chain. There are also significant export opportunities for 
Ceres CHP products globally. 
During the visit, the Minister saw fuel cells being manufactured and 
CHP products being assembled and undergoing testing in the 
Group’s new test facilities. 
Mark Prisk MP , Minister of State for Business and Enterprise said:
“It is thanks to innovative research and product development by 
companies such as Ceres Power that we are leading the world with 
this sort of technology and which will help us realise our ambition to 
make the UK a leading high-tech, highly skilled economy. ” 07 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
More than 85% of the 1.5 million gas boilers 
installed in the UK every year are wall mounted
3
 
Ceres Power has 
world-leading 
technology and a 
highly differentiated 
commercial CHP 
product that is capable 
of widespread mass 
market adoption
proposition to customers, which 
our UK market partner, British Gas, 
believes are pre-requisites for a 
product to achieve widespread 
consumer adoption. 
The current CHP prototype validates 
the concept of a boiler-replacement 
consumer appliance that can be 
installed in the majority of the UK’s 
homes and deliver significant energy 
bill savings, payments from the Feed-
in-Tariff (‘FIT’) and carbon reductions. 
We are today setting out a revised 
plan to launch a CHP product 
that meets the requirements of 
the mass market. The revised 
timeline, allowing the completion 
of value engineering, validation 
testing, performance optimisation 
and field trials, is as follows:
 > Second phase of in-home field trials 
in H2 2012.
 > First generation sales of CHP 
product in H1 2014.
 > Sales of the second generation 
mass market CHP product in H1 2016.
The second phase of in-home field 
trials will now be conducted during 
H2 2012 to allow sufficient time to 
conduct CHP product and FCM 
testing and optimisation in the Group’s 
test facilities to validate the product 
and demonstrate that the required 
performance levels of reliability and 
durability have been achieved. 
We plan to execute a launch in 
H1 2014 of our first generation CHP 
product that will validate the value 
proposition of this new product 
category. The initial product launch 
will also serve to understand how 
customers will use the product in 
their homes and what additional 
product refinements may need to be 
carried forward to further enhance 
the design of the mass volume launch 
product. Ceres and British Gas are 
working in collaboration to define the 
requirements necessary to access the 
early adopter segment in the UK that 
maximises our market understanding 
whilst minimising our commercial risk. 
3 BSRIA, 2008 08 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
We will use the knowledge gained 
from customer services, supply chain 
management and manufacturing 
to inform the processes required 
to support the next generation 
product. This will be based on the 
same product system platform 
but will incorporate additional 
design and value engineering 
developments to achieve the cost 
and lifetime targets to secure mass 
volume uptake. In addition, work 
will continue with the supply chain 
to invest in tooling to deliver the 
mass volumes and component 
cost targets. We are confident that 
the inherent low-cost nature of our 
CHP design will enable these mass 
market targets to be achieved.
To de-risk the product development 
programme to achieve mass volume 
uptake of our CHP product, we will 
develop further our collaborations 
with existing partners and put in place 
new strategic partner collaborations 
within the value chain to enable 
the Group to access world class 
technical competencies and proven 
capabilities and successfully leverage 
their existing access to customers.
I believe this new timeline is 
achievable and represents a realistic 
plan for the Group. It is the best 
way to deliver a robust, reliable, 
value-engineered product that is 
shown to meet our partners’ and 
customers’ needs. As mentioned 
previously, the successful delivery 
of this revised timeline will require 
some important changes to the 
business. My task is to embed these 
changes quickly, and reposition 
the Group as a high performing 
organisation, without diverting our 
focus from delivering results. 
Operations and manufacturing 
developments
During the year, fuel cell 
manufacturing capacity has been 
increased and quality improved 
with an additional furnace and 
cell production area upgrade. This 
increase in production capacity 
has enabled additional testing to 
be conducted and learning to be 
incorporated more rapidly. The 
key operational focus has been 
the establishment of repeatable 
production processes, improvements 
in fuel cell manufacturing quality and 
reduction in production variation. 
These recent improvements have 
led to a manufacturing process 
capability for fuel cell open circuit 
voltage of fewer than 1,000 parts per 
million defects. This is an ongoing 
process improvement activity and 
similar improvements are targeted 
for stack build and FCM assembly. 
The Group has completed the build 
of the second phase of the new 
test facilities which are now fully 
operational. This has substantially 
increased the Group’s test capability 
across cell, stack, FCM and CHP 
testing and learning from the field trials 
has been incorporated in the testing 
protocols that enable extended 
testing of CHP products under 
representative in-home conditions. 
Additional investments have been 
made in increasing the Group’s data 
mining capability to ensure that the 
results from testing can be more 
effectively analysed to inform the 
ongoing technical development.
Ceres has been awarded ISO9001: 2008 
certification for its Quality Management 
Systems. The certificate was awarded 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued
Energy Supply Chain – Ceres CHP Value Proposition
Generation > Peak smoothing
 > Reserve capacity to back up renewables
Transmission + distribution > Improved network utilisation
 > Deferred asset upgrades
Energy supply > Deliver on energy efficiency commitments
 > Enable new energy propositions
Appliance installation > Retention of existing boiler skills
 > Rapid rollout
Consumer  > Reduced energy costs
 > Minimal disruption
Government > Reduced emissions
 > Improved energy security
 > Reduced cost
Energy Supply Chain Benefits from Ceres Power CHP Product 09 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
In December 2010, the Group received CE Safety approval for its 
wall-mounted CHP product from Kiwa Gastec, the leading fuel cell 
and residential CHP certification body. Receipt of this approval was 
an important milestone allowing Ceres Power’s CHP products to be 
installed and operated in occupied consumer homes.
In partnership with British Gas and using their in-home heating 
expertise, Ceres completed the installation of five CHP units in family 
homes across South East England directly replacing the existing 
conventional gas boilers. The field trial units delivered central 
heating, hot water and power to the homes and were controlled 
automatically, responding in real-time to the home’s energy needs 
using a combination of the CHP unit’s Fuel Cell Module and boiler. 
The purpose of this first wave of field trials was to gain valuable 
real-world experience and to identify issues ahead of deploying  
the next wave of field trial units in consumers’ homes.
following an audit conducted by 
the British Standards Institute and 
demonstrates the Group’s commitment 
to developing quality systems to underpin 
volume manufacture and support the 
requirement of CE marking and FIT.
Commercial opportunities
The opportunity for Ceres’ CHP 
product in international markets is 
substantial. The Group’s compact 
wall-mounted product format 
and low-cost design can deliver 
substantial value to both households 
and energy companies in Europe, 
North America and Asia. Today, our 
primary focus remains on bringing 
the CHP product to market in the 
UK in partnership with British Gas 
and securing a significant share 
of the more than 1.5 million boilers 
that are sold every year in the UK.
In parallel, we are exploring new 
opportunities with partners in North 
America, Europe and Asia. In these 
markets the Group’s compact 
low-cost product format can offer 
valuable benefits to consumers and 
energy companies when compared 
to conventional residential boiler 
and water heater appliances. 
Ceres’ technology, when deployed 
in large volumes, can also provide 
valuable real-time local balancing 
capacity to relieve grid strain and 
enable security of supply to be 
maintained in an environment where 
a greater proportion of wholesale 
power production is inflexible.
Financial
Commercial revenue for the year 
decreased by 12% to £0.7m (2010: 
£0.8m) driven largely by the delay 
in completing the CHP programme 
with British Gas and the resultant 
lower amortisation rate of the 
up-front milestone payments 
received. Deferred income, being 
the difference between milestone 
payments received and revenue 
recognised in the Consolidated 
Statement of Comprehensive Income, 
decreased to £2.5m (2010: £3.2m) 
reflecting the revenue recognised 
in the current year. Other operating 
income, being monies earned 
by the Group from government 
grant-funded programmes, 
fell to £0.4m (2010: £0.6m).
“It is thanks to innovative 
research and product 
development by 
companies such as 
Ceres Power that we are 
leading the world with 
this sort of technology 
and which will help us 
realise our ambition to 
make the UK a leading 
high-tech, highly  
skilled economy.”
Mark Prisk MP , Minister of State for  
Business and Enterprise 10 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
Operating costs increased by 22% to 
£17.7m (2010: £14.5m). Within operating 
costs, research and development 
costs increased by 30% to £12.9m 
(2010: £9.9m) and administrative 
expenses increased by 4% to £4.8m 
(2010: £4.6m). The increase in research 
and development has been driven 
by the increase in average monthly 
headcount from 70 to 105 persons, 
the costs of developing and procuring 
the components for the internal and 
external field trial testing and the 
increased production of fuel cells from 
the Horsham manufacturing facility. 
Interest receivable was in line with 
the prior year at £0.5m (2010: £0.5m) 
and, following the redemption in 
December 2009 of the Group’s holding 
of UK Government gilts, there was no 
fair value movement in the current 
year (2010: £0.1m loss). The Group 
recorded an income tax credit of 
£2.3m (2010: £1.1m) consisting of £1.5m 
estimated income tax recovery in 
respect of the current financial year 
and an additional £0.8m recovery in 
respect of the previous financial year. 
The loss for the financial year 
attributable to shareholders increased 
by 18% to £13.8m (2010: £11.7m) due 
to the increased operating costs 
partly offset by higher financial 
income and increased R&D tax 
credits. The average number of 
shares in issue during the year was 
86.2m (2010: 77.3m), reflecting the 
effect of the placing that occurred 
mid-way through the previous 
financial year. The loss per ordinary 
share rose to 16.04p from 15.16p 
in the previous financial year.
The Group’s net cash used in 
operating activities increased by 
£3.4m to £13.4m (2010: £10m). 
This increase is attributable to the 
increased operating loss of £3.5m 
and an unfavourable working 
capital movement of £0.7m, partly 
offset by an increased income tax 
receipt of £0.7m. During the year, 
the Group invested £2.3m (2010: 
£2.8m) to purchase additional fuel 
cell manufacturing equipment and 
to complete the expansion of the 
testing facilities and received a 
capital grant of £0.8m (2010: £0.3m). 
Total equity-free cash outflow for the 
year was £14.2m (2010: £12.3m).
As at the year end the Group held 
£26.7m (2010: £40.9m) in cash and 
cash equivalents and short-term 
investments. The Group’s treasury 
policy to preserve capital by investing 
in low-risk, high-quality investments 
remains unchanged. Surplus 
funds are invested in short-term 
low-risk ‘AAA’-rated money market 
funds and short-term deposits at 
banks with high credit ratings. 
The Board anticipates that the 
Group will raise an initial tranche 
of funding during the next twelve 
months to continue the development, 
testing and trialing of the mains 
gas residential CHP product as set 
out in the Chairman’s Statement.
microCHP opportunity 
There can be no greater global 
challenge than the transition to 
a low-carbon economy that will 
involve major changes to the way 
we supply and use energy.
My examination of the market 
opportunity that Ceres can address 
has convinced me that the potential 
upside is enormous. By designing 
a product that retrofits in place of a 
conventional heating appliance, the 
Group can access an existing market 
of approximately 1.5 million units per 
annum in the UK alone, and more than 
18 million units per annum globally. 
The timing is right, the world needs 
cost-effective, cleaner, flexible power 
generation that can be retrofitted into 
the built environment; the Ceres CHP 
product is capable of delivering this.
Chief Executive Officer’s Review
Continued
Outlook
The Board and Senior Management 
team are focused on completing 
the work to enable the Group 
to achieve CHP product sales 
in H1 2014 and commence the 
development in 2012 of the next 
generation of the CHP product. To 
achieve this, the Group’s priorities 
for the next twelve months are:
 > complete the validation and 
optimisation of the solutions to the 
remaining issues from the first phase 
of in-home field trials;
 > conduct extended internal testing 
of CHP products ahead of further 
in-home field trials;
 > commence the next phase of 
in-home field trials; 
 > commence the development of the 
next generation of wall-mounted 
CHP product; 
 > continue to work with our partner 
British Gas to refine the details of the 
UK product launch;
 > develop the next phase of strategic 
partner collaborations to further 
de-risk the commercialisation plan; 
and 
 > secure additional funding.
Ceres faces a number of challenges 
in the year ahead. I am confident 
that we can meet these challenges 
and successfully deliver both 
the commercialisation plan and 
significant value to shareholders.
David Pummell
Chief Executive Officer
11 October 2011
