 02 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
Business 
Review
I am pleased to report on the financial 
results and achievements of the Group 
for the year ended 30 June 2011. There 
have been some notable achievements 
that have moved the business forward, 
but there have also been some 
setbacks in our progress to launching 
a mass market residential Combined 
Heat and Power (‘CHP’) product. 
In March 2011, we reported that the 
initial in-home CHP field trial units had 
experienced reliability and durability 
issues. We have made significant 
progress in resolving all these issues 
but in order to accommodate the 
additional engineering activity, 
the programme to complete 
testing and trialing and to achieve 
initial CHP product sales will take 
longer than originally planned. 
I am pleased to report that during 
the last six months we have 
made substantial performance 
improvements in the core fuel cell 
technology. These improvements 
give us increased confidence in 
meeting the requirements for the mass 
market launch of our CHP product. 
The Board is delighted to have 
appointed David Pummell as the 
Group’s new Chief Executive Officer 
(‘CEO’), who took up office on 
5 September 2011. David was CEO of 
MAPS Technology Ltd, where he built 
the company from an early-stage 
technology venture into a commercially 
successful business selling high-value 
engineered products and services. Prior 
to this, David held a number of senior 
executive roles in BP including leading 
the European fuels and lubricants 
business and various operational roles 
with responsibility for manufacturing, 
operations and distribution.
Since joining as CEO, David has 
conducted a comprehensive review 
of the business, the status of the 
core technology and the plan to 
commercialise the Group’s CHP 
product. As described in the Chief 
Executive Officer’s Review, we are today 
setting out a revised plan to conduct  
a second phase of in-home field trials  
in H2 2012 leading to the launch of our 
first generation CHP product in H1 2014. 
In parallel, the Group will commence 
work on developing the next generation 
CHP product by value engineering  
the current CHP design to achieve  
a low-cost, durable CHP product to 
meet mass market cost requirements 
and a planned launch date in H1 2016.
This revised plan means that the 
Group is likely to continue to incur 
losses at the operating level. The 
Board continues to monitor closely the 
existing cash resources, which stood 
at £26.7m at the year end, and the 
funding needs of the Group, and it is 
anticipated that the Group will raise 
an initial tranche of further funding 
during the next twelve months.
Strategic overview
Since my report last year, the macro 
environment for microgeneration 
has continued to improve. Energy 
prices have risen significantly and 
most commentators expect this 
trend to continue as the scale of the 
investment required to replace ageing 
infrastructure and deliver low-carbon 
energy is recognised. Gas is an 
abundant, clean, flexible fuel and 
is acknowledged as an important 
ingredient in the transition to achieving 
a low-carbon economy. Technologies 
such as microCHP that efficiently 
convert gas into usable heat and 
power on-site will become important 
as a strategic option for consumers 
and governments. Importantly, in an 
uncertain world where technology is 
continuously advancing, an option for 
flexible, cleaner energy production with 
a typical life of up to ten years provides 
a lower risk option compared to large 
centralised power generation where 
investments typically have a life of 25 
years or more and require considerable 
investment in the transmission systems 
to deliver the energy to the consumer.
Against this background the market 
potential for residential CHP is 
substantial. Ceres Power’s low-cost,  03 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 201 1
wall-mounted CHP product allows 
the Group to access the annual 
boiler replacement market and 
offer consumers the opportunity to 
generate low-carbon electricity in 
their own homes with an attractive 
payback. In Europe alone there are 
approximately 8 million residential 
boilers replaced every year and Ceres 
Power has already secured market 
access to millions of consumers 
in the UK and Ireland through its 
partnerships with British Gas, Calor Gas 
and Bord Gáis. We intend to develop 
further commercial partnerships in 
Europe and beyond to address the 
global market opportunity of more 
than 18 million units annually. 
Feed-in-Tariff and support for 
microgeneration technologies
In the UK, the Government has 
recognised the importance of trying 
to achieve lower cost ways to reduce 
carbon rather than a single focus on 
maximising the deployment of higher 
cost renewables. In February 2011, 
the UK Government’s Department of 
Energy and Climate Change (‘DECC’) 
announced a review of the Feed-in-
Tariff (‘FIT’); which is expected to realign 
the FIT to stimulate the uptake of the 
most cost-effective technologies.
As part of this review, a group of  
the leading microCHP developers  
and energy companies in the UK,  
including Ceres Power and British  
Gas, has submitted a report to  
DECC recommending changes to  
the existing FIT structure to further 
encourage the uptake of microCHP.  
The report recommends that the 
current generation FIT of 10p/kWh 
should be raised to at least 15p/kWh  
with a volume-based reduction 
going forward, and that the current 
cap of 30,000 units should be lifted. 
Implementing this recommendation 
would stimulate faster adoption of 
microCHP, with the tariff reducing as 
the technologies are adopted and 
the benefits of the volume-related 
cost-down curve are captured.
We welcome this review and look 
forward to working with DECC and 
demonstrating the sustainable 
benefits of our technology for both 
the retrofit and new build housing 
sectors. The outcome of the review is 
expected to take effect in April 2012.
People
On behalf of the Board I would like 
to thank our employees for their 
commitment and determination. We 
have built a team of dedicated and 
talented people and they are rightly 
proud of what they have achieved. 
Bringing a new technology to market 
involves discovery, innovation 
and significant engineering effort 
and is never a straightforward 
Housing in the UK accounts for 27% of the country’s total carbon 
emissions, the largest single element
1
journey, but the opportunities for 
our technology are substantial.
Summary
The technology is capable of delivering 
flexible, clean power generation in 
an integrated and wall-mounted 
residential CHP product and we 
believe that this CHP product can 
be engineered into a low-cost 
reliable fuel cell CHP product for 
the residential mass market.
The key task for the business is to 
complete the development, trialing 
and launch of a low-cost, durable CHP 
product that provides the consumer 
with clean, economic energy on 
demand. We have made considerable 
progress towards this goal and our new 
CEO, David Pummell, sets out in more 
detail in his review the key priorities for 
the Group over the next twelve months 
that underpin the route to achieving 
initial sales and creating the platform 
for mass market uptake thereafter. 
Brian Count
Chairman
1 1 October 201 1
1 CLG – Definition of Zero Carbon Homes and Non-Domestic 
Buildings – December 08
