 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
6
Chairman’s 
statement
In less than five years, Advanced has grown from a company 
formed to consolidate the fragmented healthcare software market 
to become one of the largest listed UK-based software companies
This year saw Advanced continue its unbroken record  
of organic growth and the selection and acquisition  
of businesses, both in the healthcare sector and from  
the accounting and back office sector, that are a  
good fit with the Group’s existing structure and which  
offer significant opportunity for cross-selling goods  
and services. 
The Group achieved strong organic growth* of 9%  
and completed three strategic and complementary 
acquisitions.
Group revenue from continuing operations was  
£120.9m, up 23%, and adjusted EBITDA** rose  
12% to £27 .0m. Basic earnings per share increased  
by 44% to 2.6p per share (2012: 1.8p). Adjusted earnings 
per share increased by 12% to 5.6p per share. These 
excellent results were again underpinned by strong  
cash conversion
‡
 of 108%.
Approximately 57% of Group revenue was contracted 
and recurring, a clear signal of the quality and robust 
nature of future revenue and profitability. In addition,  
the customer retention rate remained high – a direct 
result of the Group’s focus on delivering products and 
services that are key to customers’ operations.
In April 2012 Fabric Technologies was acquired  
for £4.6m. Fabric, with annual revenue of £11.2m, 
provides unified communications, linking together 
various different forms of communication, such as  
PCs, telephones and video conferencing, in a single  
integrated infrastructure that promotes collaboration; 
thus helping businesses to be more agile and responsive.
Michael Jackson
Chairman
£120.9m
Revenue up 23%
£27.0m
Adjusted EBITDA up 12%
5.6p
Adjusted EPS up 12% Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
7
Overview Business review Governance Financials
Strand Technology , with annual revenue of £1.0m,  
was acquired for £2.0m in September 2012 to  
provide specialist mental health clinical and patient 
administration capabilities to complement the Group’s 
new product, Advanced Community. Strand is a  
leading supplier of clinical care management solutions 
to community and mental health organisations.
In December 2012, Advanced’s public sector customer 
base was extended by the acquisition of Serco Learning 
for £7 .3m. Serco Learning has annual revenue of 
approximately £13.5m and supplies business solutions  
to the education sector. Now renamed Advanced 
Learning, the business has become part of Advanced’s 
Business Solutions division to gain best advantage from 
cross-selling opportunities.
Since the year end, the Group has acquired Computer 
Software Holdings (CSH) for £107 .0m in cash. CSH 
revenue for the 12 months to February 2013 was £61.2m, 
mostly arising from the supply of accounting and back 
office solutions to SMEs, and EBITDA before synergies was 
£13.1m. Advanced’s relationship with CSH dates back to 
before its private equity ownership, when it was known 
as Computer Software Group and was led by current 
Advanced directors Michael Jackson, Vin Murria and 
Barbara Firth. The Board’s familiarity with CSH’s products 
and markets is seen as a significant advantage to its 
successful integration, as is the Board’s experience of 
successfully integrating COA Solutions, acquired in 
February 2010 for £100.0m. 
Advanced has grown considerably in the last 12 months 
and has ambitious plans to expand further in coming 
years. The composition of the Board has been enhanced 
to support the next stage in the Group’s development. 
Non-executive director Guy Millward took up his position 
as Chief Financial Officer on 10 June 2013, taking over 
from Barbara Firth who has become Chief Operating 
Officer responsible for acquisitions and integration.  
Paul Gibson remains Chief Operating Officer responsible 
for the day-to-day operations of the Group. The Group is 
also seeking to appoint two new non-executive directors 
to join Mike McGoun and Michael Jackson on the Board.
A maiden dividend of 0.4p per share is proposed to  
be paid in October 2013. The Group’s dividend policy  
is to balance the distribution of profits with the Group’s 
working capital requirements, the ongoing needs  
of the business, and its plans for merger and acquisition 
activities with the focus firmly remaining on growing  
the business. 
I am pleased to look back on another excellent year for 
Advanced. I thank my fellow directors and all employees 
for their contribution to the Group’s continued success  
in the certainty that their enthusiasm and dedication 
will ensure further remarkable achievements in 2014.
Michael Jackson
Chairman
25 June 2013
*
 Calculated on a like-for-like basis.
**
  Before acquisition costs, share-based payments and amortisation of acquired 
intangible assets. 
‡
  Cash generated from continuing operating activities as a percentage  
of adjusted EBITA.
