 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
9 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
8
Chief Executive’s review
Advanced Business Solutions has grown its customer 
base with many new business wins. The division was 
the largest operator in the UK mid-market for finance 
systems and the market leader for NHS finance systems 
in Northern Ireland and Scotland. Several large contracts 
signed in 2012 have successfully reached important 
milestones, illustrating the large-scale IT programme 
management capabilities of the division. 
Our Business Solutions and 365 Managed Services 
divisions have both benefited from opportunities created 
by organisations looking to reduce costs and improve 
efficiency during the economic downturn. Procurement, 
budgeting and forecasting solutions are popular with 
local authorities which are increasingly turning to shared 
services to further improve cost savings. Shared services 
allow a group of local authorities to join together to  
use one shared software solution, thereby paying one 
support fee and one installation fee. The solution can 
additionally be delivered as a hosted managed service, 
to provide further infrastructure cost savings.
Advanced has achieved a great deal in the first  
five years of its history. We have created a strong,  
stable and cash generative business that has been 
tested against an economic backdrop which others  
have found challenging, and which has succeeded  
in growing both organically and by way of sensible  
and strategic acquisitions.
Advanced Health & Care has performed extremely  
well with many new products and services added  
to the portfolio, including solutions addressing the 
growing mental health and community health markets. 
The division won and implemented contracts with  
2 key community health trusts and became the major 
supplier of software and services to approximately  
85% of providers to the new NHS 111 service. 
The adoption of mobile technologies for healthcare is 
seeing significant growth and Advanced is the leader  
in this field. We continue to invest heavily in this area 
with new versions of iConnect on the Gentag phone  
and iNurse on the Android phone being released  
at regular intervals and, later in the year, our new  
Android tablet and smartphone version of iConnect.
In less than five years, Group turnover, including the recent 
acquisition of Computer Software Holdings, has grown from  
£7 .3m to over £190.0m* and adjusted EBITDA from £2.1m to  
more than £40.0m*
Vin Murria
Chief Executive Officer Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
9 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
8
Business review Governance Financials Overview
Advanced 365 Managed Services delivered another 
strong performance and key contract wins with 
customers such as Ruffer, South Downs National Parks 
and Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council have 
resulted in a steady increase in revenue under contract.
The Group has invested in overseas development centres 
to ensure that its products remain technically ahead  
of the competition and in many instances we have 
developed innovative products that are leading edge, 
such as our mobile solutions for healthcare. Offshore 
headcount has grown from 45 in February 2012 to  
76 as at February 2013 and continues to expand  
to support key areas of technology , including  
android-based mobile applications.
Our acquisitions, which complement our organic growth, 
have been selected by measuring against our key 
criteria of high recurring revenue, a good fit with our 
existing businesses, own IP , business critical applications, 
a broad, good quality , customer base to facilitate 
cross-selling and, most importantly , the right price.
We have taken advantage of low interest rates to fund 
our acquisitions and have steadily reduced net debt  
by maintaining our strong cash generation and, in 2012, 
disposing of a non-core part of the business.
Acquisitions in FY13
During the year we made three strategic acquisitions.
 > Fabric Technologies – providing managed services  
and unified communications. Fabric has been fully 
integrated into the Advanced 365 Managed Services 
division where it extends the range of services its 
customers can purchase from one supplier, 
underpinning our ‘one stop shop’ approach. 
 > Strand Technology– a leading supplier of clinical care 
management solutions to providers of mental health 
services. Strand, highly regarded by clinicians and 
used by leading NHS trusts and private providers  
of mental health care, has been integrated into the 
Health & Care division to provide a specialist mental 
health patient administration system capable of 
being incorporated into our wider community 
healthcare portfolio. 
 > Serco Learning – a leading supplier of back office 
software and services to the education sector.  
Now rebranded Advanced Learning, this acquisition 
builds upon the Group’s existing relationships in the 
education sector. Pre-acquisition, millions of pounds 
had been invested in the development of a new 
software product, Progresso, to run alongside its current 
product Facility , but this had not been completed. 
Advanced plans to finish the development of the  
new product over the next six months to provide  
an upgrade path for existing customers and give  
new customers the best new technology. Advanced  
has begun the integration of Advanced Learning  
and is expecting to complete the transition by 
February 2014.
Acquisition of Computer Software Holdings
Following the year end we commenced the next phase 
of our growth plan by acquiring Computer Software 
Holdings (CSH) in March 2013. 
CSH was grouped into four divisions, each broadly 
serving a common end user market:
 > Accountancy and Business Solutions (ABS) – providing 
accounting, ERP and business management software 
to small and medium sized entities
 > Legal and Case Solutions (LCS) – legal software and 
forms provision for solicitors, barristers and coroners
 > Not for Profit (NFP) – software solutions for charities, 
membership organisations and educational 
establishments
 > Information, Technology and Compliance (ITC)  
– comprising IT modernisation services and  
ticketing solutions.
Michael Jackson, Vin Murria and Barbara Firth were  
all directors of CSH up to the time it was taken private  
by HgCapital in April 2007 for a consideration of £100.0m, 
when the results for the year ended 28 February 2007 
showed revenue of £43.9m and EBITDA of £6.0m.  
CSH underwent several transformations under different 
owners but ultimately returned to HgCapital’s ownership 
in December 2011 until it was sold to Advanced in 
March 2013 for £107 .0m, when the results for the year  
to 28 February 2013 showed revenue of £61.2m and 
EBITDA of £13.1m. Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
11 Advanced Computer Software Group plc
Annual Report 2013
10
Current trading and outlook
Advanced continues to trade well. Turnover is 
underpinned by strong recurring revenue, giving 
excellent revenue visibility , and low customer churn.
There are opportunities for further organic growth  
in the core business, particularly in mobile solutions, 
collaboration, community healthcare, shared services 
and cloud enablement. 
Following the acquisition of CSH, the Group is in  
a strong position to exploit the increased number  
of cross-selling and core product development 
opportunities. We will also continue to identify  
and make earnings-enhancing acquisitions that  
are complementary to our existing portfolio.
Turnover of the enlarged Group is underpinned by 
strong recurring revenue, giving excellent revenue 
visibility and low customer churn. Including CSH,  
the Group has some £189.1m of future contracted  
revenue of which £21.2m is in Health & Care, £119.9m in 
Business Solutions and £48.0m in 365 Managed Services. 
73% of the total will be recognised in FY14 and the 
balance from FY15 onwards.
The Group is developing well and I am delighted  
with our progress this year. With the acquisition of CSH,  
I look forward to building on our success to date to create 
a stable, substantial and increasingly profitable business  
of considerable scale. 
Vin Murria
Chief Executive Officer
25 June 2013
The majority of CSH revenue will fall into the Advanced 
Business Solutions division with the remaining revenue, 
comprising managed service and hosting, moving to 
Advanced 365 Managed Services. 
The acquisition of CSH is very similar in terms of size, 
products, method of funding and price to the acquisition 
of COA Solutions (COA) three years ago. COA required  
a change of management style and product investment 
to return to growth within 12 months but provided the 
critical mass and ready-made and robust infrastructure 
that the enlarged Group needed at that stage of its 
development. CSH provides further critical mass and 
brings a number of valuable senior people to the Group. 
More importantly , the business is well known to 
Advanced’s management team, who believe that their 
combined knowledge and experience of the markets in 
which CSH operates not only significantly reduces any 
risk around the acquisition, but also provides substantial 
competitive advantage. 
In order to help fund the acquisition, successful placings 
raised a total of £44.0m net in February and March 2013. 
A bank loan for £105.0m was negotiated with HSBC,  
RBS and Silicon Valley Bank in March 2013 to fund  
the balance of the consideration and provide working 
capital. At completion net debt was £62.5m.
Chief Executive’s review continued
*
  Group turnover and EBITDA calculated on a pro-forma basis ie, as if all 
acquisitions had been present at 1 March 2012.
