 6  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Executive Officer’s Review 
I am pleased to report on the substantial commercial and technical progress made 
towards our strategy over the past 12 months 
 
Introduction 
Having only been in the office of the Chief Executive for a 
matter of weeks, I am happy to report that over the last 
year Ceres has maintained its market position as the only 
low cost commercially 
viable Intermediate 
Temperature SOFC 
provider. The Group has 
made substantial technical 
and commercial progress, 
and I am delighted to be in 
post.  Under the guidance 
of Steve Callaghan, a 
member of our Board and 
turnaround specialist, the 
Group’s new strategy 
deployed post-restructure in January 2013 has gained 
significant commercial traction and our technology claims 
are being validated by several OEMs.   
Commercial Update 
With KD Navien (“KDN”) we have secured the first stage 
of a long-term partnership funded by KDN where they will 
collaborate with us with the intention to develop and 
commercialise a low cost natural gas fuel cell micro-CHP 
product for the residential and commercial mass market 
in South Korea, as well as other strategic markets.  Over a 
12 month period from July 2013, we will provide KDN 
with our technology to allow them to evaluate its design 
and operating performance. Additionally over the period, 
KD Navien and Ceres will begin the design phase for a 
new 1kW micro-CHP product by leveraging each 
company’s strengths, developing a product 
commercialisation plan and agreeing the commercial 
structures for licensing and development for the next 
phases of the programme. 
In Japan we have early stage evaluation of our technology 
with a number of OEMs which are currently assessing 
performance and application for a number of different 
market opportunities. In the US we have entered into a 
partnership with the University of Connecticut in order to 
demonstrate the potential of our core technology to US 
based OEMs.   
This commercial progress has been successful only due to 
the technical progress made under the continued 
leadership of the Technical Director, Dr Mark Selby, and 
his team.  We have made significant progress around 
stabilising processes and production techniques to deliver 
robustness, opening the road to commercialisation for 
the Group and its partners. 
Technology progress report 
The progress made in the technology over the recent 
period has been excellent in a number of areas and the 
capability of the technology to be truly disruptive remains 
in evidence.  In addition, in due course, I believe the 
technology may be viable for a wider number of higher 
power generation applications and we shall be evaluating 
this opportunity over the coming year. 
Cell and stack development has continued to progress 
with key improvements demonstrated in robustness and 
sustained development of highly repeatable volume 
manufacturing processes. A key area of development has 
been our ‘robust anode’ concept.  This allows us to have 
the unique capability of withstanding harsh real life 
conditions of unplanned stops.  This is a key enabler for 
developing robust, low cost fuel cell products with our 
customers.   
Steady state durability, thermal cycling capability and the 
ability to withstand harsh emergency stops are the key 
metrics that are important to our product development 
partners in their own technology evaluations and we are 
continuing to demonstrate this in our partner 
programmes. In accelerated thermal cycling and 
RedOx/Emergency stop laboratory tests in the harshest 
possible operating conditions, we have demonstrated 
around twice the requirement for a consumer micro-CHP 
product based on this technology. Accelerated testing in 
these metrics is a good indication of the potential for long 
life products. In addition, we continue to progress steady 
state durability on tests that incorporate the latest 
developments of the technology. 
We have made rapid progress in Fuel Cell Module 
(“FCM”) development in the last year, improving 
efficiency to >50% Gross Electrical Efficiency LHV (Lower  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   7 
 
 
 
 
 
Heating Value). These developments in efficiency improve 
potential savings for domestic micro-CHP containing the 
Ceres technology, based on a conservative UK real use 
case scenario including the current feed-in tariff. This 
allows an expected payback period for the consumer of 
less than five years, based on detailed projected product 
costs.  
The combination of our fuel cells’ intermediate operating 
temperature of c.600
o
C, fuel reforming process and low 
cost metals presents a unique set of engineering 
challenges and opportunities.  Our deep technical 
understanding in this area, and the intellectual property 
that results, presents a great opportunity for us to help 
accelerate our partners’ commercialisation plans for our 
technology. 
Across all areas of the technology we continue to 
generate and protect our intellectual property with the 
primary goal of accelerating the volume uptake of the 
core cell technology and subsidy-free fuel cell products. 
This has already resulted in (and will continue to result in) 
numerous patent filings which strengthen our position 
and protect our competitive advantage.  
The various technology evaluation engagements, which 
began in early 2013, continue to generate significant 
activity within the technology team. To support this new 
aspect of our business, we have recruited a small number 
of key individuals. In 2014 customer funded activity will 
be a major work-stream for us.  In parallel to our ongoing 
customer programmes, we continue to progress our 
roadmap for the Ceres Technology Platform to meet our 
customers’ long-term commercial needs.   
 
Dr Mark Selby 
Director of Technology 
Dr Selby has been with Ceres Power since 2006 and has led the 
technology team since February 2013.  He has deep understanding of 
systems engineering and previously has been responsible for all aspects of 
Product Development activity.  Prior to joining Ceres Power, he was 
a Senior Engineer at Ricardo UK Limited.   He has degrees in Electronics, 
Dynamics and Control Systems awarded by the University of Leeds. 
 
Dr Subhasish Mukerjee 
Director of Cell and Stack Development 
Dr. Mukerjee joined the Company in February 2012.  He is responsible for 
all aspects of the development of cell and stack technology.  He has 
extensive experience in fuel cells having previously worked at Delphi 
Corporation as SOFC Technology Leader.  He holds numerous SOFC 
patents and has published widely on fuel cell technology.  He gained 
his PhD at Yale University. 
Manufacturing and operations update 
We have consolidated our business and manufacturing 
operations to our Horsham site, allowing development 
cells and stacks to be produced within a controlled 
environment.  Our focus on real-world volume 
manufacturing has been a core part of generating 
customer traction, as many of the organisations we are 
engaged with have world class track records and 
experience of quality-driven manufacturing 
environments. 
Manufacturing quality, repeatability and stability have 
been the focus of the Manufacturing Team over the past 
12 months. As a result of this and of process and 
materials development, overall cell yield has continued to 
improve to up to  80%.  This continuing focus on the 
manufacturing processes is an essential capability to 
enable the scale-up of successful volume manufacturing 
to meet our partners’ needs. 
Medium-term roadmap 
Following the restructure at the end of 2012 the Ceres 
Board agreed a medium-term roadmap to enable it to 
meet its strategic goals, as discussed below.   
Commercial  
The goal over the next five years is to target early stage 
commercial deals in addition to developing existing 
relationships, with the aim of translating these into major 
development programmes and license agreements with 
OEM partners.  Our unique technology will enable our 
customers and partners to be market leaders in low cost 
distributed power generation and will position the Group 
to set the global standard for fuel cells in our chosen 
markets.  These early stage commercial agreements are 
designed to enable partners to develop and trial products 
based on the Group’s core technology in micro-CHP and 
other markets.   
 
Ceres is targeting partners with the balance sheet 
strength and skills to develop product beyond the FCM 
module and who are able to fully integrate our 
technology into products. We also expect our partners to 
be market leaders in their domestic markets with 
significant international reach. The Group will take the 
opportunity to leverage developments beyond the FCM, 
which were completed under the old strategy, to 
accelerate the go-to-market time for new partners.  
 
The Group recognises the importance of its existing 
contracts, particularly those with British Gas in the UK and 
Itho-Daalderop in the Netherlands. Although Ceres’ initial 
OEM product partners are likely to launch product in their  8  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   
 
 
 
 
 
own countries first, these existing contracts could be 
important beachheads into Europe for them and other 
potential partners.   
Manufacturing  
Our manufacturing capability and IP are valuable assets to 
the Ceres business.  The manufacturing capacity at our 
plant in Horsham is sufficient for our current needs.  In 
response to anticipated customer and internal demand, 
the business would expect 
to increase this 
manufacturing capacity 
four-fold on the same site 
over the next few years by 
increasing the number of 
shifts and with a limited 
targeted amount of capital 
expenditure, in response 
to customer and internal 
demand.   
 
In parallel with manufacturing cells and stacks and 
assembling FCMs in-house, we will continue to 
industrialise and stabilise the manufacturing processes 
with the current aim to invest in a larger scale pilot plant 
in time.  This will act as a blueprint to enable future 
partners to mass manufacture under license and will 
service anticipated initial higher volume demand.  The 
Group would not expect to make any significant financial 
commitments in this financial year and we will target a 
location where significant grants are available to 
contribute towards capital expenditure.  
Technology 
Ceres will continue to industrialise and make continual 
improvements to its core fuel cell and FCM technology.  
Improvements to the Ceres Technology Platform will be 
carefully targeted. The business is focused on developing 
1kW stacks and FCMs for natural gas, although, with the 
right level of partner funding, it could also be scaled and 
utilise alternative fuels for other applications.  The FCM 
developed to date and the deep in-house system 
expertise has great value and can accelerate our partners’ 
route to market. 
 
In addition to its core technology offering, the Group will 
offer its partners application services and micro-CHP 
product-related IP which we developed before the change 
of strategy, which will also accelerate take-up.   
Financial 
As a result of the restructuring and change in strategy in 
the year, recurring operating costs were reduced by 
£7.9m from £18.1m in 2012 to £10.2m in 2013.  Over the 
same period the Group’s average headcount fell from 155 
in 2012 to 76 and currently stands at approximately 65.   
 
During the year Calor Gas and Ceres agreed to end their 
agreement to develop and supply an LPG-fuelled product 
for sale in the UK market.  As a result £0.5m of deferred 
revenue, being the unamortised portion of up-front 
milestone payments relating to Calor Gas, was released to 
the Income Statement without any cash impact.  This was 
the primary reason the revenue for the year increased to 
£0.5m (2012: £0.2m).  Deferred income of £1.8m relating 
to the British Gas and Bord Gais Eireann development and 
supply contracts (2012: £1.8m) remains on the balance 
sheet.   
 
An income tax credit of £1.3m (2012: £3m) has been 
recorded in the year, consisting of a £1.0m estimated tax 
recovery in respect of the current financial year and an 
additional £0.3m received in respect of the prior year.   
 
The loss for the financial year attributable to shareholders 
reduced from £14.9m to £11.4m due to reduced 
expenditure.  The average number of shares in issue 
increased from 86.2m to 292.8m which was the 
significant contributor to the reduction in loss per 
ordinary share of 3.88p (2012: 17.28p).   
 
During the year the Group’s net cash used in operations 
reduced to £7.3m (2012: £15.4m) reflecting the reduced 
operating expenditure, a favourable working capital 
movement and the disposal of property, plant and 
machinery in the year.  Current equity-free cash burn is 
forecast to remain steady and be around £9m in the 
financial year ending 30 June 2014.    
People 
The great progress being made in the development of our 
technology is testament to the talent, robust 
entrepreneurial spirit and commitment of our employees.  
We are fortunate in having a united team which works 
collaboratively across the range of disciplines with 
knowledge, dedication and passion to deliver great results 
with every activity we undertake.  
 
We are committed to providing opportunities for our 
employees to succeed, encourage their innovative 
thinking and enhance their professional abilities through 
a range of development opportunities. 
I extend the Board’s sincere thanks to every one of our 
team for their personal and collective contribution, and 
its recognition and appreciation of the ongoing support 
they receive from their families as they help us pursue  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   9 
 
 
 
 
 
our Group’s mission.  Our success is absolutely a team 
effort. 
Summary 
During the past 12 months Ceres has undertaken a 
significant change in direction with regard to its go-to-
market strategy, choosing core technology focus over 
product.  Product development is now part of the Group 
strategy only in conjunction with our OEM and system 
integration partners.  Commercially we have shown that 
we can attract and transact with world class product 
organisations and we shall continue to do so.  Technically 
we have continued to meet and in some cases exceed the 
standards set by ourselves in the core technology 
programmes at cell, stack and FCM.  We can demonstrate 
appropriate levels of efficiency, robustness and 
manufacturing quality in support of real-world product 
development programmes for mass market applications.  
The Group continues to receive validation by OEM 
partners and other third parties that the core technology 
is achieving its design goals which underline our belief in 
the cost leadership potential for this technology. I would 
like to thank my executive management team for the 
hard work, pragmatism and tenacity over the past year.  
Their leadership has anchored Ceres and put us in an 
extremely strong position for the future. 
 
 
 
 
 
Phil Caldwell  
Chief Executive 
30 September 2013 
 
  
