 Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   1 
 
 
 
 
 
Highlights  
 
During the reporting period: 
 Restructured the business to reduce recurring operating costs by 44% to £10.2 million 
 Implemented new business strategy of working with global consumer durable product 
manufacturers or ‘Original Equipment Manufacturers’ (“OEMs”) with strong balance sheets 
 Successful targeting of OEM relationships in Japan and South Korea  
 New Board and Leadership Team appointed 
 Substantial progress made with the robustness of Ceres unique low cost fuel cell technology 
 Increase in Fuel Cell Module (“FCM”) gross efficiency to > 50% 
 Intellectual property portfolio further extended at cell, stack and FCM levels 
 £15.4 million in net cash and short-term cash investments as at 30 June 2013 
 
After period end: 
 New CEO appointed, Philip Caldwell, commenced employment on 2 September 2013 
 Commercial Agreement signed with Korea’s largest boiler manufacturer, KD Navien, in landmark 
deal in support of new strategy 
 Commercial traction in Japan with a number of global OEMs in technology validation and test 
activities  
 Collaboration Agreement signed with the University of Connecticut to showcase Ceres’ 
technology and facilitate access to US OEMs and the Department of Energy programmes to 
drive product development in the US 
 
 
   2  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   
 
 
 
 
 
Business Opportunity
The wider picture 
Global energy challenges have been well understood for 
some time; however recent events have increased the 
need for clean and efficient distributed power 
generation. World energy demand is predicted to rise by 
25% (IEA, 2013) over the next decade yet the 
infrastructure to provide a growing population with the 
power they need is struggling to meet this growth. 
Events such as the Fukishima disaster have put more 
pressure on existing infrastructure, not only in Japan, but 
also in countries such as Germany where a change of 
energy policy has resulted in a renewed focus on 
distributed generation and renewable or cleaner solutions. 
Discoveries of shale gas reserves in the US closely 
followed by the rest of the world are extending the use 
of natural gas as a fuel for the foreseeable future but do 
not address the underlying issues of how to reduce CO
2
 
emissions unless new technologies are adopted to 
generate and distribute power more efficiently. 
Fuel cells are one of the technologies which can provide 
cleaner power solutions for a range of market 
applications such as distributed generation through 
micro-CHP, backup or primary power for telecoms and 
transportation. After many years of development we are 
now seeing widespread commercialisation of fuel cell 
products, particularly in the Japanese market where 
sales are being led by global OEMs such as Panasonic, 
Toshiba and Toyota. Sales of residential micro-CHP units 
in Japan under the government backed Ene-Farm 
programme reached 28,000 in 2012 and are continuing 
to grow. In addition, the South Korean government has 
committed to subsidising its One Million Green Homes 
Project for 2020, which is capable of stimulating a similar 
market for fuel cell technology to that seen in Japan.  
Whist Japan and Korea lead the way in developing the 
fuel cell market, developments in other regions are 
accelerating.  In Germany, the government is supporting 
field trials of micro-CHP units under its Callux 
programme and has set a binding CHP target of 25% co-
generated electricity in power production by 2020.  In 
the US large scale fuel cell deployments are being 
backed by bank financing programmes resulting in MWs 
of installed capacity for applications which provide highly 
reliable and efficient power to growing energy 
consumers such as data centres operated by some of the 
world’s biggest consumer electronics and technology 
companies. A number of studies for stationary power 
fuel cell products have suggested that the market size 
could exceed US$10 billion by 2025.  
Whilst the potential of fuel cell technology has been 
demonstrated through successful commercial products 
sold often with government support through subsidies 
and feed-in tariffs, the global OEMs still face the major 
challenge to widespread adoption: of significantly 
reducing costs while achieving operational robustness 
and flexibility. Ceres Power technology offers a step 
change to the existing high temperature solid oxide fuel 
cell (“SOFC”) technology by providing a lower cost, 
robust solution that enables its commercial partners, 
through joint product development and effective 
technology transfer, to produce the next generation of 
clean power products with Ceres’ unique proprietary 
technology at its core.    
What we do 
Ceres Power has developed a technology platform that is 
capable of being mass manufactured using its patented 
unique metal-supported SOFC technology designed to 
operate on natural gas and subsequently on a range of 
other fuels including LPG. 
Ceres Power’s fuel cell stack is a metal-supported solid 
state electro-chemical device which is the core of the 
Fuel Cell Module (“FCM”) which generates electricity and 
heat directly from reformed fuel and air. Unlike the 
combustion process in an engine-driven generator, this 
solid state process is highly efficient, environmentally 
friendly and quiet. The Ceres stacks and FCMs will form 
the core of a range of distributed generation products 
designed with the potential to become the new standard 
for energy provision in millions of homes and thousands 
of commercial and industrial applications around the 
world.  The Group’s initial commercial focus is on the 
South Korean and Japanese markets, for compact 
residential Combined Heat and Power (“CHP”) products 
that replace conventional residential boilers and also 
produce the majority of a typical home’s electricity 
needs. However the Ceres technology can be applied to 
other applications and markets. 
  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A typical home uses electricity generated by a central power 
station and transmitted through the electricity grid network 
and uses a gas boiler to meet its heating and hot water 
needs. Centralised generation wastes a significant proportion 
of the energy it uses, through heat losses in the power 
station and transmission and distribution losses. A CHP 
product installed in a home and generating electricity at the 
point of use (so-called distributed generation) avoids these 
energy losses, capturing the heat for use in domestic hot 
water and heating in the home. By creating electricity at the 
point of use in the home, overall efficiency of fossil fuel use 
can be improved from around 35% for centralised generation 
to up to 90% for residential CHP. This increase in energy 
efficiency delivers significant reductions in carbon emissions. 
 
Our technology  
The patented Ceres fuel cell design comprises thin 
electrochemical layers deposited onto a porous stainless 
steel supporting substrate. The cell operates in the 
temperature range of 500–600°C which is substantially 
lower than the temperature at which conventional SOFC 
materials can operate, typically 750–1000°C. The 
inherently lower operating temperature of Ceres’ unique 
SOFC technology and the metal-supported design 
enables the use of proven cost-effective materials and 
manufacturing processes and a fuel cell stack design that 
is robust and resistant to thermal and real-world 
operating cycles. 
 
 
The Group continues to develop its world class 
manufacturing and systems engineering capability to 
supply initial volumes of its high value core fuel cell 
technology to its partners and, at a later stage, to offer 
high volume manufacture under license at various global 
locations to meet our OEM partners’ needs.  
Our commercial proposition 
Ceres Power has extensive and valuable intellectual 
property rights and know-how in three core areas: the 
fuel cell stack, the FCM and fuel cell manufacturing, 
which together will enable our commercial partners to 
develop and manufacture low carbon power products 
under license. The Group’s first platform for licensing 
into the low carbon appliance market is a 1kW stack or 
FCM to be integrated into wall mounted residential fuel 
cell CHP products. Such products will be designed to 
replace conventional household boilers, saving the 
customer around 25% of their annual total energy costs 
and reducing the home’s CO
2
 emissions. By exploiting its 
significant fuel cell system engineering experience, Ceres 
can support and accelerate OEMs and other system 
integrators to evaluate and develop new low carbon 
products for residential and other markets. This unique 
application support capability enables the Group to 
catalyse uptake of its technology and encourage 
economies of scale and standardisation across different 
product platforms.  
Ceres Power already has a technical and commercial 
partnership agreement with KDN Navien, South Korea’s 
largest boiler manufacturer, for the incorporation of its 
technology into a CHP product and is actively looking to 
create similar partnerships in Japan, the US and Europe. 
In Japan, assessment of the technology is being carried 
out with a number of potential OEM partners. In 
addition, Ceres Power retains its longstanding 
partnerships with a range of established corporations 
such as British Gas and Itho-Daalderop with well-
established direct channels to millions of customers in 
the UK, Benelux and Ireland.  New products and market 
opportunities also exist in the longer term beyond 
residential CHP, including fuel cell water heaters for the 
US market, tri-generation, remote industrial power and 
auxiliary power for transport applications. 
 
