 4  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   
 
 
 
 
 
Chairman’s Statement 
The last year has seen the Group make substantial progress against its new 
strategy in both commercial and technical respects following its successful 
restructuring and refinancing at the end of 2012.    
Driven by our technical successes and cost leadership position Ceres is now gaining 
significant commercial traction and I believe it has truly global potential. 
 
Introduction 
Since assuming the chair at the end of December 2012, 
there have been significant changes in the business.  The 
technology team has been reconfigured to support our 
new strategy based on core technology only, with product 
development implemented by our OEM partners.  These 
partners can bring multiple products to market through 
their depth of skills and expertise in systems integration, 
and their balance sheet strength.  The commercial team 
set out to attract OEMs with the vision to build products 
with Ceres technology embedded within them and we 
have made significant progress on all fronts.  Before 
reporting on this, I would like to thank the previous 
Chairman, Brian Count, and his Executive Board for their 
professionalism and dedication to handing over control of 
the business to the newly appointed executive team and 
supporting that team in resizing the business.  I would 
specifically like to single out Rex Vevers, former CFO, and 
Phil Whalen, formerly the CTO, for individual praise.  I 
should also like to extend my personal thanks to Steve 
Callaghan, one of our Non-Executive Directors, who 
implemented the restructure program and supported the 
business and leadership team through the second half of 
the year. His contribution was significant and his many 
years of working with turnaround situations were 
invaluable to the Group.  I am extremely pleased to 
welcome Phil Caldwell, the new CEO, to Ceres, who I refer 
to later in more detail.  
 
I would now like to turn my attention to progress that has 
been made and the work still in progress at Ceres whilst 
outlining our continued strategy for the financial year 
2013-14 and beyond. 
Business strategy and market overview 
In contrast to the previous strategy of aspiring to become 
a product company, Ceres now focuses only on core 
technology at cell, stack and Fuel Cell Module (“FCM”) 
level with accompanying cell manufacturing skills 
necessary to scale the business.  We seek to engage OEMs 
with strong balance sheets, systems and product 
engineering skills in depth, and access to global markets.  
Our key areas of geographic focus remain South Korea, 
whose government have supported up to 80% subsidies 
for micro-CHP domestic installations in conjunction with a 
One Million Green Homes Project by 2020 initiative, and 
Japan, where over 28,000 micro combined heat and 
power (“micro-CHP”) units were sold in 2012.  We are 
also targeting the US, where Intermediate Temperature 
SOFC has recently received positive Governmental 
support, and parts of Western Europe, including Germany 
where their government has made significant and positive 
statements in support of Green Power and where 
subsidies for micro-CHP are noteworthy.   
 
I am particularly pleased with the recently announced 
Ceres deal with KD Navien, South Korea’s largest boiler 
manufacturer. This is a landmark deal and clearly 
demonstrates that the new strategy has found favour 
with OEMs.  There has also been early commercial 
traction in Japan which bodes extremely well for the 
future, and we look forward to working more closely with 
Japanese partners going forward. We will strive to 
conclude more significant commercial deals in our target 
geographies in the coming year.  
 
In addition to micro-CHP applications, we also consider 
our core technology to be suitable for other vertical 
applications and will explore commercial partnerships in 
new markets in the coming year.  
Fund raise and change of advisors 
On 18 December 2012, shareholders approved a placing 
and open offer to raise £3.3 million (before expenses) 
which provided the minimum level of funding required to 
undertake the business restructure, and to establish the 
commercial and technology strategy for the business 
moving forward. On 28 March 2013, shareholders  Ceres Power Holdings plc Annual Report 2013   5 
 
 
 
 
 
approved a placing and open offer to raise £9.5 million 
(before expenses) which provides funding for the first 
stages of the revised strategy and new business model.  
The Group held £15.4 million in net cash and short-term 
cash investments as at 30 June 2013 and, as previously 
noted in our interim results, the Board anticipates that 
further funding will be required in future to fully 
commercialise the technology.  However, we do expect 
that successful commercial engagements will also 
contribute to funding the business in the coming financial 
year. 
 
During the period Ceres also appointed Nplus1 Singer as 
its nominated advisor and DAC Beachcroft as its solicitors.  
For completeness, I can also report that after the period 
end the Group also appointed Tavistock as its financial PR 
agency. 
Technology progress 
Progress has been impressive and I leave it to the Chief 
Executive to provide details of this in his report.  Through 
the remainder of 2013 I expect the technical programmes 
to continue to deliver to our roadmap. 
People 
Ceres has an excellent team which, having been subjected 
to the stresses associated with a >60% reduction in 
workforce during 2012, have worked tirelessly during the 
year, particularly since December, to deliver strong 
technical and commercial progress.  I salute their 
endeavour, endurance and sheer passion shown during 
this year of restructure, refocus and re-engagement 
around the new Group strategy. Following the 
restructuring phase all employees were granted share 
options as both retention and incentivisation measures 
and all key personnel continue to remain in post. 
 
We have in Philip Caldwell, our new CEO, a highly 
commercial business leader with ten years’ experience of 
the fuel cell sector. Phil was previously Corporate 
Development Director at Intelligent Energy, a sizeable 
company which specialises in the development of PEM 
fuel cell systems. He has a strong track record of securing 
OEM partners, and executing licence deals and 
agreements with sector leading global companies across 
automotive, stationary power and consumer electronic 
applications. In particular he was instrumental in 
establishing a joint venture with Suzuki Motor 
Corporation which enabled local manufacture of fuel cells 
under license in Japan. 
 
I also note that Mike Bretherton, who has been Non-
Executive Director since December 2012, will step down 
from the Board on 4 October 2013 following his recent 
relocation to Guernsey.  We wish him well in the future.  
Summary 
The Board of Directors has implemented a business 
strategy based on the technology at the very core of the 
Group’s capability, and is of the opinion that Ceres cell, 
stack and FCM technology has the potential to become 
the global standard for fuel cells for its target markets. In 
due course, the Board is confident that it will deliver 
excellent shareholder value through engineering 
development, licence, supply and royalty revenues.  The 
technical and commercial advances over the past 12 
months have further reinforced Ceres’ position as a 
unique low cost, efficient and durable technology 
platform capable of operating in ‘real world’ conditions in 
multiple vertical and geographic markets. 
 
We believe the current strategy and approach to be in the 
very best interests of our shareholders. 
 
 
 
 
Alan Aubrey 
Chairman 
30 September 2013 
 
