 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 8 /
Chairman’s Statement It is a huge endorsement  
of the technical team’s capabilities that they have been able  
to progress to the next stages with customers as technically 
demanding as the Japanese OEMs.
FUEL CELLS: AN 
EMERGING INDUSTRY
This is an exciting time in the fuel 
cell industry. Following a prolonged 
development period we are now seeing 
the rapid emergence of an industry with 
the commercialisation of first generation 
products from leading global companies. 
Growth of the sector has been 
particularly significant in Asia and 
the US, as favourable energy policies 
and subsidies, combined with a 
renewed interest in natural gas 
and billions of dollars of investment 
by private companies, support 
this initial commercialisation. 
As with any emerging industry we are 
also seeing a period of consolidation. 
Many of the less well-financed 
independent fuel cell providers have 
exited the business or been acquired 
by larger OEM’s, and significant 
partnerships have been made as 
companies form strategic alliances. 
This shows an increasing need for 
global engineering companies to access 
capability in fuel cell technology. 
By focusing on our technology 
and partnering with these leading 
companies we are confident that we 
have the right strategy to take our 
technology through to product. 
With the global market for fuel cells 
forecast to reach US$8.5 billion by 
2020, this represents a significant 
opportunity for those companies that 
can emerge as winners over the next 
few years. Therefore I am particularly 
pleased that we have set Ceres Power 
on a strong financial footing with 
the addition of several high quality 
institutional investors through the 
recent £20 million fundraising. 
With the global market for fuel 
cells forecast to reach US$8.5 
billion by 2020, this represents 
a significant opportunity. 
Alan Aubrey
Chairman Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 9 /
Strategic Report
Progress
Since implementing our new strategy 
in 2013 Ceres has continued 
to deliver against its plan. 
I am especially pleased with the 
calibre of commercial interest that 
Ceres has generated across different 
geographies and applications. 
This is particularly so with the signing 
of a Joint Development Agreement 
and deepening of our relationship with 
one of the leading global Japanese 
power systems companies and the 
significant commercial progress made 
in a relatively short space of time 
with our ongoing relationship with 
Cummins Power Systems in the US. 
It is a huge endorsement of the 
technical team’s capabilities that they 
have been able to progress to the next 
stages with customers as technically 
demanding as the Japanese OEMs.
By satisfying demanding customer 
test requirements in both the UK 
and Asia, the Company has valuable 
third-party validation of the Steel Cell 
technology’s disruptive performance, 
particularly its robustness.
We have made significant strides with the 
technology under the leadership of Mark 
Selby, our Chief Technology Officer, and I 
am pleased that this has been recognised 
by his promotion to the board.
People
I am delighted with the tremendous 
progress the Company has made, both 
technically and commercially, under the 
leadership of our CEO Phil Caldwell in 
his first full year with the Company.
We have a strong dedicated team who 
have embraced the new strategy and 
the increasing opportunities that this 
has generated. This progress can be 
clearly seen in the Horsham facility, 
which has never failed to impress the 
leading players from across the industry 
that have visited in the past year. 
We continue to invest both in 
adding to the team in key areas and 
also the test and manufacturing 
infrastructure in Horsham. This will 
accelerate our development and enable 
further customer engagements. 
I am confident that the Ceres Steel Cell 
technology can transform the way that 
power is generated and distributed 
and look forward to building on the 
significant progress made in the last 
twelve months to further position Ceres 
as one of the leading companies in the 
fuel cell industry in the year ahead.
Alan Aubrey
Chairman 
7 November 2014
I am delighted with the 
tremendous progress  
the Company has made,  
both technically and 
commercially. 
We have set Ceres Power on a strong financial footing with the 
addition of several high-quality institutional investors through 
the recent £20 million fundraising. 
