 Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 10 /
Chief Executive’s Statement I am pleased to report on the 
significant technical and commercial progress made in my  
first 12 months in the position of Chief Executive following 
the Company’s strategic change of direction in 2013.
A YEAR OF PROGRESS
Introduction
I am positive that we have the right 
strategy to compete in the rapidly 
growing fuel cell industry and, through 
the dedication of the team working 
not just in the UK but also at customer 
sites in Korea, Japan and the US, we 
have put in place a solid foundation 
for our future commercial success. 
Strategy
The fuel cell industry today is dominated 
by the large global players who have 
the balance sheet strength to invest 
in technology and bring first products 
to market in environments with 
favourable energy policy and subsidies.
A partnering approach is being adopted 
with alliances of several companies 
coming together to cover all aspects of 
the product development cycle, from  
the design and manufacture of the core 
fuel cell technology to system-level 
product development and the channel 
 to market, often through a utility or 
energy services company.
Our strategy of being a technology 
provider rather than a product company 
allows us to play to our strengths and 
focus on our next generation Steel Cell 
technology, while leveraging the 
expertise of some of the world’s largest 
power companies. 
By using the same core Steel Cell 
technology for different product 
applications across different 
geographies we are able to access the 
growing markets of Asia and the US 
through strategic partnerships and 
ultimately the licensing of our technology. 
The licensing approach and outsourced 
manufacturing is often used in the 
consumer electronics industry where a 
commercial “eco-system” of technology 
designers, manufacturers and OEM’s 
come together to provide the products 
we are all reliant upon today. At Ceres 
Power we are working on establishing 
our own eco-system of partners. 
This approach enables us to scale 
the business through leveraging our 
partners’ product development and 
manufacturing capabilities in order to 
bring the Steel Cell technology to market 
in the next generation of power products 
we all need for the home and business.
The recent fundraise backed by leading 
institutional investors endorses the 
Company strategy and gives Ceres the 
balance sheet strength to engage with 
these leading companies at this key 
stage of the Company’s development.
Commercial 
Over the past year we have made 
significant commercial progress in 
building a pipeline of opportunities 
from the global power sector and we 
have welcomed many of the leading 
players to our facilities in Horsham. All 
of the companies we are dealing with 
are leaders in their chosen markets 
Phil Caldwell
Chief Executive Officer Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 11 /
Strategic Report
and although not all can be expected 
to go through to commercialisation, 
success with a relatively small 
number of companies would give 
us a significant market share. 
One of the most satisfying aspects 
of the past year has been seeing our 
technology successfully tested on 
several customer sites in Korea and 
Japan. This confirms the confidence 
that we have in the performance of the 
Steel Cell technology with third party 
validation by some of the world’s most 
experienced engineering companies. 
In January we shipped our first fuel cell 
power system to KD Navien (KDN) 
under the terms of the Technology 
Assessment Agreement, which has 
undergone extensive testing at an 
independent Korean test house and 
then at KDN’s own facility near Seoul. 
As a first deployment outside of the 
UK we have made great progress and 
learnt a tremendous amount about 
how our technology performs in 
different environmental conditions. 
We have successfully demonstrated 
superior performance for cycling and 
robustness compared to similar solid 
oxide fuel cell (SOFC) technologies and 
have agreed to extend the testing period 
to enable modification for localised 
conditions and ensure we reproduce the 
same performance at KDN as in the UK. 
During this time we have built a strong 
working relationship with the KDN team 
and in parallel to the testing we are in 
discussions for the next phases of the 
relationship to jointly develop a product 
for the Korean and international markets 
based on the Steel Cell technology.
I am extremely pleased with our progress 
in Japan this year, since opening our 
office in Kyoto in April and culminating 
in the recently signed next stage Joint 
Development Agreement with one of 
the leading Japanese power system 
companies. This follows extensive 
evaluation of the Steel Cell technology 
over the past year with testing in the 
UK and at the customer’s facility in 
Japan. There is particular interest in 
the robustness and cycleability of the 
Steel Cell for different applications such 
as conventional generators, which has 
often been a problem for other SOFC 
technologies in the past. Under this 
agreement the companies will jointly 
develop a fuel cell stack using the Ceres 
Steel Cell technology combined with 
the engineering and design expertise 
of the Japanese OEM, to be built in 
the UK and then tested in Japan for 
its application for both residential and 
generator systems. Japan is a key market 
for us and we have developed a strong 
commercial pipeline and expect several 
more companies to enter evaluation 
stages in the coming months.
Recent advancements in the efficiency 
of the technology have opened up the 
opportunity for us to explore other 
applications, with a particular focus on 
the North American market. In March 
we signed a strategic Joint Development 
Agreement with Cummins Power 
Generation, a global provider of power 
systems, including those for the data 
centre and back-up power markets. 
The purpose of the collaboration is 
to explore the joint development and 
commercialization of the Steel Cell 
technology for products in Cummins’ 
existing markets.  There is significant 
interest in distributed generation using 
fuel cells in the US and we are exploring 
several commercial opportunities, 
which we expect to progress to the 
next stages in the coming year.
We have made significant commercial progress in building a 
pipeline of opportunities from the global power sector and… 
all of the companies we are dealing with are leaders in their 
chosen markets. 
As part of our business strategy 
we are also further developing our 
relationships with energy companies 
and utilities in different regions and 
are starting to explore strategic 
partnerships for manufacturing scale-
up in key markets such as Asia.
Technology 
The Board has been very pleased with 
progress made this year against our 
technology roadmap. In the last year 
the technology team has continued to 
evaluate the ability of the technology 
to compete in the most advanced 
markets in the world for fuel cell power 
generation, namely the rapidly maturing 
Japanese consumer scale CHP units 
and the emerging “power only”, or prime 
power, market in North America. 
We have also supported our customers 
with their own technology evaluation 
programmes, which have allowed them 
to validate our technology’s unrivalled 
ability to shutdown repetitively in 
planned and unplanned scenarios. 
I am most excited by the improvement 
in electrical efficiency from ~50% 
published this time last year to over 
57%. Operation in an unoptimised CHP 
prototype product showed 47% net 
efficiency, which puts our technology 
firmly in the same high-efficiency 
category as m-CHP products on sale 
today in Japan, but at a much lower 
overall cost, improving potential savings 
for domestic micro-CHP customers. 
Looking to the future, our roadmap for 
the next period includes activities that 
aim to increase efficiency and power 
density still further and will strengthen 
our cost USP against other technologies. Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 12 /
With the support of a £1 million 
government grant from the 
Department of Energy and Climate 
Change (DECC) to accelerate the 
worldwide commercialisation of this 
technology, the team has made great 
strides in improving the Fuel Cell 
Module design, including improving 
emissions compliance at system level. 
This is key to enable adoption in all 
our target markets and it offers our 
partners an easier route to developing 
products around the technology. 
Across all areas of our technology we 
continue to generate and protect our 
intellectual property. We file numerous 
patents where they strengthen our 
position and protect our competitive 
advantage, and since June 2013 
we have increased the number of 
patent and trade mark families we 
have filed for from 33 to 39.
Our focus on increasing efficiency 
of the core Steel Cell technology 
combined with system development 
with our partners gives us confidence 
that we can address larger scale 
prime power applications where 
this is the main requirement. 
Manufacturing and Operations
In manufacturing, the Company’s 
operational focus has been continuing  
the supply of quality fuel cells to 
the various internal and customer 
programmes, as well as investing in 
improvements to the manufacturing 
processes. For example, our recent 
partnership with DEK (part of ASM 
Assembly Solutions), a global provider 
of screen printing equipment, coupled 
with grant funding of £0.7 million 
from the Technology Strategy Board, 
which we announced in August 2014, 
is a key enabler to scale up some 
of our key processes more cost-
effectively. The collaboration combines 
DEK’s latest high speed photovoltaic 
manufacturing processes with Ceres 
existing manufacturing capability. 
In the coming year we will continue to 
develop our manufacturing processes 
to enable further capacity, initially in the 
UK, and we will explore further scale-
up with global manufacturing partners 
in line with our business strategy.
Financial
Apart from meeting commercial and 
technical milestones, we measure 
success of the business through 
careful management of the Company’s 
resources and by measuring progress 
on our financial milestones. 
The Company’s loss for the financial 
year decreased from £8.3 million in 
2013 (excluding restructuring costs 
of £3.1 million) to £7.4 million. As the 
weighted average number of shares 
in issue increased from 293 million to 
537 million, the loss per ordinary share 
decreased from 3.88p to 1.38p. 
Total revenue increased from £0.5 million 
in the year ending 30 June 2013 to 
£1.2 million in the current year. Excepting 
releases of deferred revenue in both 
the prior year (Calor Gas £0.5 million) 
and the current year (Bord Gais Eirann 
£0.7 million), the Group has increased 
its underlying revenue from £13,000 in 
the year ending 30 June 2013 to £0.5 
million in the current year. This reflects 
Chief Executive’s statement continued
I am most excited by the 
improvement in electrical 
efficiency… which puts our 
technology firmly in the same 
high-efficiency category as 
m-CHP products on sale today 
in Japan, but at a much lower 
overall cost.  Ceres Power Holdings plc annual report 2014 13 /
Strategic Report
the continued progress the Company has 
made in developing new and deepening 
existing partner relationships.
Control of the Company’s cost base  
is vital to Ceres. We are in a growth 
phase and we do expect our cost base  
to increase as we service customers  
and rebase from our restructuring in 
2013. The Board is comfortable with  
the recurring operating costs of  
£10.1 million (2013: £10.2 million), which 
is necessary to continue the development 
and productionisation of the technology. 
At the year end the Company had  
£7.7 million in cash and cash equivalents, 
having used £7.3 million net cash in 
operations in the period (2013: £7.3 
million), and with the addition of the £20 
million gross raised via an oversubscribed 
private placing in July 2014, the 
Group is well financed to deliver the 
next phase of its business plan.
During the year the Company began 
again to invest significantly in capital 
equipment (£0.5 million based on 
cashflow during the year, compared to 
£42,000 in 2013), which will be used to 
accelerate the technology development 
cycle. The single largest investment in 
2014 is £1 million of new test facilities, 
which was part complete at year end.
Ceres is also making excellent use of 
the available government grants and is 
grateful for their availability, recognising 
£0.6 million in the year (2013: nil). 
Another important form of funding 
to the business is receiving R&D tax 
credits. We received £1.1 million of 
tax credit relating to the prior year 
and we estimate to recover a similar 
amount for the current year. 
People
I continue to be impressed with the 
whole team at Ceres. Their commitment 
over the year has been excellent, and 
the Board recognises the importance 
of everyone’s contribution to achieving 
the Company’s goals. During the year 
we have recruited new colleagues 
in order to deliver our internal and 
external programmes, and we will 
continue to recruit the right resource 
to help us deliver to our objectives. 
As the Chairman has stated in his report, 
since the year end we have promoted 
Mark Selby, Chief Technology Officer, 
to the main Board of Directors of the 
Company. This reflects his leadership 
and his active contribution to the 
development of our technology. 
Risks
The Group faces a number of risks and 
uncertainties, which could affect the 
execution of its strategic objectives. 
The key business risks are outlined 
in the Directors’ Report and the key 
financial risks are detailed in note 
14 to the financial statements. 
Outlook, key objectives and KPI’s
In the past year we have laid a solid 
technical foundation and executed 
customer programmes to an extremely 
high standard of performance. We are 
now seeing the benefits of our internal 
developments coming through into our 
customer engagements with some of 
the most experienced power system 
companies in the world. We are building 
our global profile and we have a healthy 
commercial pipeline for the coming year.
The valuable third party validation we have received from 
our OEM partners reinforces our confidence that our  
Steel Cell technology has the potential to become the 
standard next generation fuel cell technology. 
Ceres considers its financial key 
performance indicators to be 
revenue from commercial activities, 
operating costs, and maintaining 
a strong cash position. 
In the coming year I expect further 
revenue growth through advancement 
of partners  to next stage Joint 
Development Agreements and bringing 
on new partners at the evaluation stage. 
We will manage operating costs to 
support commercial activity and 
further investment will be made in 
the technical team and our test and 
manufacturing capabilities at Horsham 
as we pursue our own roadmap to 
produce a Steel Cell technology that 
is fit for real world applications in all 
metrics of performance and cost.
The valuable third party validation 
we have received from our OEM 
partners reinforces our confidence 
that our Steel Cell technology has 
the potential to become the standard 
next generation fuel cell technology. 
This is a very exciting time in this rapidly 
growing industry and at Ceres Power 
we are well positioned to become one 
of the leading companies in this sector.
Phil Caldwell
Chief Executive Officer
7 November 2014 Recent advancements in the 
efficiency of the technology 
have opened up the 
opportunity for us to begin to 
explore other applications, 
with a particular focus on the 
North American market. 
