 6
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Chairman’s letter to shareholders
In less than six years, Advanced has grown  
to become one of the largest UK-based 
software companies and is currently ranked  
as the 13th largest company on AIM.*
“ Advanced continues to deliver across 
all measures – strong operational 
performance underpinned by 
excellent cash generation and  
a growing pipeline of opportunity.”
Michael Jackson
Chairman
Overview
We have achieved strong operational performance underpinned 
by excellent cash generation and a growing pipeline of 
opportunity for organic growth and acquisitions that are a 
good fit with the Group’s existing structure. In addition we 
have high visibility of future revenue and profitability and 
significant opportunity for cross-selling Group products  
and services. 
The three acquisitions completed in the year, described more 
fully in the strategic report, all match our acquisition criteria. 
Computer Software Holdings, acquired in March 2013, was 
successfully integrated during the year and broadens the 
products and markets of our Business Solutions division.  
Plain Healthcare, acquired in October 2013, has provided  
a valuable contribution to our plans for a deeper penetration  
of the UK healthcare market. Compass Computer Consultants, 
acquired in January 2014, is an exciting addition to our Business 
Solutions division, which already counts 2,000 local authorities, 
academies and education providers in its customer base. Strategic report Governance Financials
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
7
Dividend
0.44p 
Up 10%
People
Last year we announced that we were seeking to strengthen 
the Board by the appointment of a further independent 
non-executive director. On 12 December 2013, we welcomed 
Dr Chris Hand to the Board where he will be a member  
of the Audit and Remuneration Committees. Chris has over  
20 years’ experience in the healthcare industry and is currently  
Chief Executive of Abingdon Health Limited. 
As previously announced, non-executive director Guy Millward 
took up his position as Chief Financial Officer on 10 June 2013, 
taking over from Barbara Firth who became Chief Operating 
Officer for Acquisitions and Integration. 
On behalf of the Board, I would like to place on record our 
thanks to the excellent management team and all the hard-
working, committed and loyal members of staff who have 
contributed to the success of Advanced to date. I am certain 
that their enthusiasm and dedication will ensure further 
remarkable progress is achieved in the current year  
to February 2015.
Dividend
The Group’s dividend policy is to balance the distribution  
of profits with the Group’s working capital requirements,  
the ongoing needs of the business, and its plans  
for acquisition activities, with the focus firmly remaining  
on growing the business. 
The Board is recommending a 10% increase in the final 
dividend to 0.44 pence per share in respect of the results  
for the year ended 28 February 2014.
Conclusion
Advanced’s strong performance matched by strong cash 
generation provides an excellent foundation for future growth. 
We continue to focus on both organic growth and acquisitions 
to complement and broaden our existing portfolio and are 
confident that our strategy will generate sustainable returns 
and growth for our shareholders.
Michael Jackson
Chairman
4 June 2014
Advanced’s strong performance matched  
by strong cash generation provides an  
excellent foundation for future growth. 
* Investor’s Chronicle Top 100 AIM Companies 2014. 
