 8
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive’s review
We continue to deliver strong 
performance underpinned by excellent 
cash generation whilst, at the same time, 
successfully integrating transformational 
acquisitions and building opportunities  
for future growth. 
Revenue
£203.2m 
Up 68%
“I am pleased to report another  
very successful year for Advanced – 
today one of the largest providers 
of software and IT services to the 
UK market.”
Vin Murria
Chief Executive Officer
Strategy and performance
This year the Group made substantial progress towards building 
a strong, dynamic company focussed on organic growth and 
growth through complementary acquisitions. Advanced  
is now recognised as the second largest UK-based software  
and IT services provider to the UK market, as well as the  
13th largest company on AIM.
Advanced maintained strong organic growth momentum during 
the year, with organic revenue up 7%, excluding the results of 
Computer Software Holdings (CSH) acquired in March 2013
†
, 
contributing to total revenue growth of 68%. This reflects the 
Group’s continued focus on performance whilst integrating  
one transformational acquisition and completing two further 
complementary acquisitions in the year.
 
Group revenue was £203.2m, up 68%, and adjusted EBITDA 
rose 68% to £45.3m. Approximately 20% of revenue for 2014 
was SaaS-based. This percentage is expected to grow steadily 
as customers appreciate the lower cost of ownership of 
transaction-based models.
 
Cash conversion remained strong at 105% (cash generated 
from operating activities as a percentage of adjusted EBITA). 
Basic EPS rose 12% to 2.9 pence.
This performance is a direct result of the Group’s focus on 
developing and delivering products and services that are  
critical to its customers’ operations and its commitment to 
maintaining excellent customer service. High customer retention 
rates are maintained by listening to customers, identifying their 
needs and developing intelligent solutions to resolve their  
IT needs.
Driving growth whilst containing costs and increasing efficiency 
is absolutely critical for organisations in today’s marketplace  
and Advanced’s products and services are focussed on providing 
IT solutions to assist customers in achieving optimal performance. 
The Advanced advantage is that all a customer’s IT needs can  
be fulfilled under one roof – from supplying software, hosted  
on the Cloud as Software as a Service (SaaS), to the complete 
outsourcing of a customer’s IT function, or the implementation 
of mobile working with an integral airtime package. Strategic report Governance Financials
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
9
Adjusted EBITDA
£45.3m 
Up 68%
Advanced Health & Care achieved particularly good results. 
Many new products and services have been added to the 
portfolio, including solutions addressing the growing mental 
health and community health markets. Highlights from the 
division include the winning and implementing of strategically 
significant contracts with two key community health trusts 
featuring workforce mobilisation, and becoming the major 
supplier of software and services to approximately 85% of 
providers to the new NHS 111 service. 
Advanced Business Solutions successfully completed the 
Group’s largest ever contract with the Northern Ireland 
Department of Health, Social Care and Public Safety – with  
the project executed efficiently and effectively, to time and 
budget. As expected at the time of the acquisition in March 
2013, results from CSH were flat for 2014. However, the 
integration into the division was successfully completed to 
plan and the turnaround back to growth is progressing well.
Both the Advanced Business Solutions and Advanced  
365 Managed Services divisions have benefitted from cross-
selling opportunities created by organisations looking to reduce 
costs and improve efficiency. Advanced 365’s second half 
performance also gained pace from its largest ever contract  
win, which contributed to increases in both transitional and 
managed service revenue in the second half. 
Offshore development
The Group is committed to product development to fuel 
organic growth and has continued to invest in overseas 
development centres in India to ensure that its products remain 
technically ahead of the competition. Offshore headcount has 
grown from 76 heads in February 2013 to 105 heads as at 
February 2014 and continues to expand to support key areas 
of technology, such as android-based mobile applications, 
business analytics and SaaS.
Acquisitions 
The Group started the year strongly with the acquisition  
of CSH in March 2013 for £107.0m in cash. CSH revenue  
for the 12 months to February 2013 was £61.2m, mostly arising 
from the supply of accounting and management information 
systems, and adjusted EBITDA was £13.1m. The Board’s 
familiarity with CSH’s products and markets was a significant 
advantage and the integration is now successfully completed. 
In October 2013, the Group acquired Plain Healthcare Limited, 
the trading subsidiary of Avia Health Informatics. This was a 
strategic acquisition for the Group’s Health & Care division and 
provided valuable applications for referral facilitation and clinical 
decision support system to support Advanced’s plans for a 
deeper penetration of the NHS market.
In January 2014, Compass Computer Consultants Limited 
(Compass), a leading provider of higher education software  
to more than 80% of UK colleges and higher education 
establishments, was acquired and integrated into the Group’s 
Business Solutions division. Its flagship product – an invaluable 
tool for meeting Government inspection needs – has been 
chosen by over 80% of all colleges in England. Compass has  
an outstanding reputation for customer support and training 
which will be built on to achieve future growth.
Our high levels of recurring revenue give us 
confidence in future performance and our strong 
underlying profitability enables us to continually 
invest in innovative product development to 
maintain our market-leading position. 10
Advanced Computer Software Group plc 
Annual Report 2014
Chief Executive’s review continued
Adjusted EPS
 6 .6p 
Up 18%
Advanced is well positioned to take advantage of opportunities 
in growth areas where it has deep domain expertise such as 
business intelligence, corporate performance management 
(particularly budgeting and forecasting) and solutions for the 
legal market. Other plans for the year ahead include maximising 
customers’ appetite for Cloud-based solutions and increasing 
product offerings available on a SaaS or hosted basis.
365 Managed Services
Cross-selling managed services with Group software remains 
an important source of revenue and profit for the division  
and is a key contributor to increasing future revenue under 
contract. Initial implementation of Advanced 365’s largest ever 
multi-year, multi-million pound contract is well underway.
Few software organisations have the integration skills to 
architect, implement and manage a multi-Cloud service solution 
that is customised to specific requirements. Advanced is uniquely 
placed to solve its customers’ business needs and deliver a 
comprehensive solution, and will continue to focus on these key 
strengths, as customers transition to full Cloud-based solutions.
Current trading and outlook
Advanced continues to trade in accordance with Board 
expectations. Turnover is underpinned by strong recurring 
revenue of 64% (2013: 57%) giving excellent revenue visibility. 
SaaS or subscription-based revenue accounts for approximately 
32% of recurring revenue and is expected to continue to grow 
as customers discover the benefits of a low initial cost model.
Opportunities exist for organic growth in the core business, 
particularly in community healthcare, mobile solutions, 
collaboration, and Cloud-enablement. Acquisitions that 
strengthen the existing Group structure and have the potential 
to increase shareholder value are actively being sought.
Health & Care
Advanced continues to make excellent progress in winning  
bids in the NHS and community health space. The conclusion of 
the National Programme for IT, with approximately 50 contracts 
of the original 68 still to be awarded in a market, offers 
significant opportunity for growth. 
Advanced is a supplier to over 85% of providers to the  
new NHS 111 service and performance to date has been good. 
The division is at the centre of plans to further develop the  
111 model. 
The Group is committed to investment in health and care 
products. A significant proportion of profit for this division  
will be reinvested in building community and mental health 
products and flexible delivery models across health and social 
care. Advanced’s position as the leading provider of urgent care 
software systems will be maintained by promoting workforce 
mobilisation in every aspect of out-of-hospital care.
Business Solutions
The division has started the year well with acquired business 
CSH fully integrated and showing positive signs of growth.  
The integration of recent acquisition Compass is proceeding  
to plan with trading in line with expectations. 
* Calculated on a like-for-like basis. 
** EBITDA before one-off acquisition and restructuring costs, 
share-based payments and amortisation of acquired  
intangible assets. 
***EPS before one-off acquisition and restructuring costs,  
share-based payments, amortisation of acquired intangible  
assets and tax adjustments.
$
 SaaS/subscription revenue relates to Advanced software 
applications on public or private Cloud and management  
of other client applications on the Group’s Cloud platform.
†
 5% including CSH
