 06
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
At a Glance
Our Business
Retail
Exidor
Based in Cannock, Staffordshire, Exidor is a long established and leading supplier of 
specialist emergency exit hardware, i.e. the crash bars fitted to fire escape doors 
that allow rapid opening in the event of an emergency. Its EXIDOR emergency exit 
product range is a leader in the exit and security door equipment market with an 
expanding range of equipment to satisfy a variety of access applications. Exidor has 
a strong management team, good distribution channels and an excellent 
reputation in its market.
In February 2011 the intellectual property and certain assets of Jebron Ltd were 
acquired from the administrators. This has added a complementary product range 
and its integration into our Cannock site is proceeding smoothly to timeframe  
and budget. It is expected that this will add profitable sales of over £1m on an 
annualised basis.
Petrel
Petrel Ltd, based near the National Exhibition Centre to the East of Birmingham, 
concentrates on the development and production of certified lighting and 
control equipment for use in hazardous and explosive environments. This  
is a highly regulated market servicing a variety of sectors including the 
petrochemical and distilling industries.
With its strong presence in a highly regulated market, Petrel has seen little 
reduction in demand during the recession.
Petrel has recently strengthened its UK sales team and added an experienced agent 
to cover a territory in Germany, and this should help to stimulate ongoing growth.
Engineering Business
Revenue by business
51%  Exidor
49%  Petrel
The Engineering Division currently 
comprises Exidor Ltd and Petrel Ltd.
Product Areas
37.9%  Light Castings
24.2% Medium Castings
21.5%  Heavy Castings
8.3%  Hazardous Environments
8.1% Security/Safety
Chamberlin operates across 5 locations in the UK. The foundry Division specialises 
in technically demanding castings in complex shapes and in specialist metallurgies. 
Work is allocated across its three foundry sites based on size and metallurgy as 
follows:
a. Light castings based in Walsall produces castings up to 5kg in grey iron;
b. Medium castings based in Leicester produce 5kg to 100kg castings in a wide 
variety of iron alloys;
c. Heavy castings based in Scunthorpe make 100kg and 6 tonnes castings again 
in a wide variety of iron grades.
The two engineering businesses supply to regulated markets operating from two 
sites in the West Midlands. 07
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Foundry Business
Chamberlin & Hill Castings (“CHC”)
This subsidiary incorporates our Walsall and Leicester foundries with combined 
financial and sales functions.  
Walsall specialises in small castings with complex internal passages and has built 
a strong position in automotive turbochargers.
Our Leicester foundry specialises in producing mid-size iron castings with complex 
metallurgy designed to give high strength, corrosion or wear resistance or low 
temperature capability and its expertise is relevant to many sectors.
Russell Ductile Castings (“RDC”)
RDC, which is based in Scunthorpe and specialises in heavy castings for a wide 
variety of industries. The majority of RDC customers are OEMs and the site is 
benefiting from the global demand for engineered products.
	 z In 2010 we combined the management of our Leicester and Walsall 
operations and began the merger of their respective support functions.  
This process was completed in 2011 and is delivering a significant reduction 
in overheads.
	 z During the second half we commenced volume production of the first 
castings for a major new customer to develop castings for a family of new 
turbochargers and anticipate that this will generate annual sales of 
approximately €6m once all castings are in production.
	 z RDC announced a major contract win, worth £1.4m, with a UK 
manufacturer to supply castings for specialist compressors which will be 
exported to a natural gas installation in Asia. This contract is proceeding as 
expected and will be completed during the current financial year. 
Revenue by business
Chamberlin & Hill Castings 
44%   Light castings
28%   Medium castings 
Russell Ductile Castings
28%   Heavy castings
The Foundries Division currently comprises 
Chamberlin & Hill Castings Ltd and Russell 
Ductile Castings Ltd. 08
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
“Chamberlin’s strategic focus on ‘difficult things done well’ and its diverse range of 
markets has helped it to occupy a favourable market position and presents a wide 
range of opportunities for future growth.”
The following case studies demonstrate Chamberlin’s ability to recognise opportunities and solve client problems with 
innovative solutions. The company’s mix of resources coupled with technical know-how allows it to provide a full 
service that is difficult for competitors to emulate. 
Case Study
Taking casting technology  
into new markets
Market Opportunity
Casting is the most cost 
effective method for 
forming complex metal 
shapes, and can be used 
to produce components 
previously made by 
forging or fabrication. A 
stairlift manufacturer 
approached Chamberlin 
to assist them in 
developing a cast solution 
to a key component of 
their core product.
Why Chamberlin?
Chamberlin has expertise in producing highly complex shapes 
with thin wall thicknesses for technically demanding 
applications. There are only a small number of foundries 
globally that have the technical capability to take such a 
complex component from design right through to production.
What difference has this made?
Chamberlin’s engineers worked with our client’s team to 
develop a very complex casting in a special grade of iron to 
replace an existing fabricated component.  
The resultant product is both stronger  
and more cost effective than the  
original fabrication. 
Case Study
Turbochargers for  
Petrol Engines
Market opportunity
In 2010 some 10% of petrol engines  
were turbocharged however, by 2015  
approximately 80-90% of car petrol engines are expected to be 
turbocharged causing the existing market to grow by over 50%.
Why Chamberlin?
We are one of only four specialist foundries in Europe with the 
technical capability to develop and supply these castings.
What difference has this made?
This product has become a high growth area that currently 
represents 21% of Group sales.
Chamberlin have supplied castings into the diesel turbocharger 
market for over 10 years. Recent EU emissions legislation has 
resulted in the car makers needing to turbo charge petrol 
engines in order to meet the new standards. Chamberlin has 
been working with a large turbocharger manufacturer for the 
last two years to take a critical part of the turbo from design to 
full production. This work is ongoing and further products will 
go into production over the next 18 months.
At a Glance
Difficult Things Done Well 09
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Global sales
Engineering activity outside of the UK 
is a key driver of demand:
Approximately 70% of output is 
ultimately exported. Direct exports 
account for 35% of output with our 
customers located in Europe, America 
and Asia.  Indirect exports, where 
Chamberlin businesses supply products 
to UK-based equipment manufacturers 
whose products are then shipped 
worldwide, account for approximately 
35% of our output. Against this, only 
some 30% of sales are driven by demand 
from the UK economy. Global demand 
for engineered products is strong and 
our UK customers, which include 
companies such as Siemens, Howden, 
CAT, JCB and Tata Steel, are typically 
leaders in their sectors.  
UK Manufacturing
Worldwide Markets
2
3
4
5
6
1
HEaD OFFICE 
1 Walsall
FOunDRIES
2 Chamberlin & Hill 
Castings, Walsall
3 Chamberlin & Hill 
Castings, Leicester
4 Russell Ductile Castings, 
Scunthorpe
EnGInEERInG 
5 Exidor, Cannock
6 Petrel, Birmingham
35%  Direct
35% Indirect
30%  UK
Exports
Group Markets
21.1%  Passenger Car
13.5%  Commercial Diesel 
9.0%  Hydraulics 
8.4%  Construction Equipment 
8.3%  Hazardous Environments 
8.1%  Security/Safety 
5.1%  Mining/Quarrying/Minerals 
3.6%  Transportation Off Road 
2.5%  Process 
2.3%  Power Generation 
2.2%  Steel Industry 
2.1%  Oil & Gas 
1.5%  Rail 
12.4%  Other 
Our Markets 10
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH Performance
Chief Executive’s Review 12–15
Finance Director’s Review 16–17
11
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
Introduction Governance Financial Statements Performance
