 12
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Chief Executive’ s Review
We are pleased with Chamberlin’s trading results and  
our recommendation to recommence the payment of 
dividends signals our confidence in the business and its 
growth prospects.
Markets
Recovery in demand has gathered pace during the past year and 
Chamberlin, having returned to profit in the first half of the year, 
delivered improving profitability in the second half. We ended the year 
with overall activity around pre-recession levels and with continuing 
growth opportunities in our key markets.
The recession and subsequent recovery have highlighted features of our 
business and markets that are worth examining as we look to future 
growth and I discuss below some of the more important elements.
Diverse markets
Chamberlin serves a diverse range of markets including automotive, 
hydraulics, mining, hazardous environments, power generation and 
construction equipment. This diversity has benefited us during recession, 
reducing our exposure to any single market, and continues to do so by 
presenting a wide range of opportunities for future growth.
In recent years we have focused our automotive activity on turbocharger 
castings, a high growth area that currently represents 21% of Group sales. 
As one of only four specialist foundries in Europe with the technical 
capability of supplying these castings for turbochargers we are in an 
excellent position to benefit from the increasing trend for car 
manufacturers to apply turbochargers to petrol engines. This trend is 
being driven by the need to comply with emissions regulations and to 
provide an indication of its scale, in 2010 some 10% of petrol engines 
were turbocharged however, by 2015 approximately 80-90% of car petrol 
engines are expected to be turbocharged causing the existing market to 
grow by over 50%.
Direct and indirect export
It is a notable feature of the business that c.70% of output is ultimately 
exported. Direct exports account for 35% of output with our customers 
located in Europe, America and Asia. Indirect exports, where Chamberlin 
businesses supply products to UK-based equipment manufacturers 
whose products are then shipped worldwide, account for approximately 
35% of our output. Against this, only some 30% of sales are driven by 
demand from the UK economy. Global demand for engineered products 
is strong and our UK customers, which include companies such as 
Siemens, Howden, CAT, JCB and Tata Steel, are typically leaders in  
their sectors.
“The decade before the recession was marked by manufacturers in America and 
Europe transferring production to lower labour cost countries in the East ....... 
we are now seeing  reversals to the model and a number of major manufacturers 
returning to European sourcing.”
Specialist lighting for hazardous and explosive environments 13
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Extended supply chains
The decade before the recession was marked by manufacturers in America 
and Europe transferring production to lower labour cost countries in the 
East in an attempt to reduce cost. In the engineering sector this transfer 
started with simple parts but came to include more complex items, and 
the supply chains typically involve fixed volume commitments, several 
months for transport by sea and stock buffers at the customer. During the 
recession many businesses suffered severe problems because of the length 
and inflexibility of their supply chain and continuing difficulties from 
unreliable product quality. As a result we are now seeing reversals to the 
model and a number of major manufacturers are returning to European 
sourcing, with some formally announcing changed sourcing policies.
Engineering capability
Historically, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) were vertically 
integrated, designing and assembling their products and making many of 
the component parts in-house. This model has changed over the years as 
OEMs, led by the automotive industry, have outsourced component 
manufacture to specialist suppliers while retaining their own core 
expertise. The recession appears to have accelerated this trend and in 
many industries OEMs are narrowing their focus even further, reducing 
their cost base by eliminating their own engineering expertise in 
component areas. Chamberlin already participates in the design of our 
customers’ products, and as more OEMs outsource engineering design  
to their supply base our technical strengths will become increasingly 
important. I also believe that there will be opportunities to expand into 
machining our castings, supply logistics and possibly sub-assembly so 
creating new revenue streams for the Group.
Operations
In a year of recovery, we have focused on increasing volumes while 
maintaining the tight cost and cash controls that were central to steering 
a successful course through the recession. Having retained our production 
capacity, backed by a skilled staff base, we were well placed to handle the 
upturn in demand and all our operating sites returned to full-time 
working during the year.
All operations achieved process improvements during the recession and 
these have been maintained during recovery. The investment programme 
carried out by management between 2007–2009 means that none of our 
sites currently requires further major investment and I look forward to 
significant organic growth with capital spending now running at a level 
approximately equal to our depreciation cost.
Train and railway infrastructure components 14
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Foundries
Chamberlin & Hill Castings (“CHC”)
This subsidiary incorporates our Walsall and Leicester foundries with 
combined financial and sales functions. Both foundries have recovered 
well and in the fourth quarter Walsall operated at 100% of pre-recession 
volumes while Leicester was at approximately 85%.
Walsall specialises in small castings with complex internal passages and 
has built a strong position in automotive turbochargers, and over the last 
two years has worked with a major new customer to develop castings for 
a family of new turbochargers. I am pleased to report that during the 
second half we commenced volume production of the first castings for 
this contract, and that the development programme for the remaining 
parts is on schedule and will be completed over the coming 18 months. 
We anticipate that this will generate annual sales of approximately €6m 
once all castings are in production. CHC continues to build on its 
longstanding relationship with Borg Warner and we believe that in future 
there will be opportunities to add further value by machining the castings 
that we produce.
Our Leicester foundry experienced a slow but sustained recovery over the 
year as construction equipment manufacturers, which make up its largest 
market, have seen volumes recover. The site specialises in producing 
mid-size iron castings with complex metallurgy designed to give high 
strength, corrosion or wear resistance, or low temperature capability and 
its expertise is relevant to many sectors.
In 2010 we combined the management of our Leicester and Walsall 
operations and began the merger of their respective support functions. 
This process was completed in 2011 and is delivering a significant 
reduction in overheads. At Leicester, the increased focus on operations is 
delivering efficiency improvements and the combined sales approach is 
identifying new opportunities. I am confident that Leicester will see 
sustained profitable growth in the current financial year and beyond.
Russell Ductile Castings (“RDC”)
RDC, which is based in Scunthorpe and specialises in heavy castings for a 
wide variety of industries, has seen a robust recovery in demand which 
started in the first half year. The site suffered significant disruption from 
the freezing weather in the third quarter of the financial year but 
recovered well in the final quarter when we saw demand exceed 
pre-recession levels.
The majority of RDC customers are OEMs and the site is benefiting  
from the global demand for engineered products. In October 2010, we 
announced a major contract win, worth £1.4m, with a UK manufacturer 
to supply castings for specialist compressors which will be exported to a 
natural gas installation in Asia. This contract is proceeding as expected 
and will be completed during the current financial year. We continue to 
win other OEM contracts and I am pleased to report that RDC customers 
have recently extended the timescale covered by their future orders. This 
is normally an indication that customers are expecting strong demand 
and are therefore reserving future capacity. During the downturn the 
casting operations were re-configured to create capacity and improve 
efficiency, and significant growth can now be accommodated at our 
Scunthorpe site.
Chief Executive’ s Review continued
Wear parts to the minerals sector 15
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2011
Stock code: CMH
20453-04  15/06/2011 Proof 7
Engineering
Exidor
Exidor specialises in emergency exit hardware, i.e. the crash bars fitted to 
fire escape doors that allow rapid opening in the event of an emergency. 
These crash bars have both a safety and security function, as they are 
required to provide protection against break-ins during normal 
conditions.
Exidor has a strong management team, good distribution channels and an 
excellent reputation in its market. Our acquisition of the intellectual 
property and certain assets of Jebron Ltd, from the administrators, in 
February 2011 has added a complementary product range and its 
integration into our Cannock site is proceeding smoothly to timeframe 
and budget. We expect this will add profitable sales of over £1m on an 
annualised basis.
Petrel
Petrel, which produces lighting and controls for hazardous environments, 
serves a market which is very highly regulated and has seen little 
reduction in demand during the recession. We have recently strengthened 
our UK sales team and added an experienced agent to cover a territory in 
Germany, and this should help to stimulate ongoing growth.
a cquisition strategy
We continue to pursue acquisitions opportunities that fit our criteria of 
‘difficult things done well’. We have reviewed our target sectors in light of 
the market developments discussed above and in general our acquisition 
criteria remain unchanged. However, we believe that these developments 
have made foundry investments more attractive and have therefore 
increased our research in the sector.
Outlook
Chamberlin has been tested by recession and emerged strongly. The 
Group is continuing to see volume recovery and we believe that prospects 
for growth in the current financial year are very encouraging.
Tim Hair
Chief Executive
23 May 2011
Heavy weight castings for the marine sector
