 chamberlin plc
10
Chief Executive’s Review
Tim Hair
Trading conditions continued to improve during 
the ﬁnancial year to 31 March 2012 and revenues 
and earnings are now both above pre-recession 
levels. Indeed, these results represent our best 
performance for ﬁve years and demonstrate both 
our drive to revitalise the Group’s prospects and 
improved global trading conditions. Exports, 
either direct or indirect, comprise over 70% of 
Chamberlin sales and engineering activity outside 
the UK continues to underpin our results.
Foundries
After the modernisation programme we began in 
2007 our foundries have now passed a milestone 
where they all operate with improved equipment, 
upgraded processes and strengthened systems. 
However, we believe that there are signiﬁcant 
improvements still attainable and that these are 
best achieved by benchmarking our operations, 
quality and logistics performance against the 
best in the wider engineering industry. We have 
therefore been recruiting from that skill base to 
deliver the next phase of improvement.
Chamberlin & Hill Castings (“CHC”)
CHC incorporates our Walsall and Leicester sites 
which share a number of foundry processes but 
serve diﬀerent markets.
Our expertise at the Walsall foundry lies in the 
development and production of small castings 
with complex internal geometry, especially 
for casings for the turbocharger market where 
complex passages are required for cooling and 
lubrication. The number of turbochargers ﬁtted 
to passenger cars in Europe continues to grow 
and as petrol engines increasingly become 
turbocharged to meet EU emissions legislation, 
market forecasts predict volume growth of one 
third by 2016. We have strong relationships with 
two of the major turbocharger manufacturers 
worldwide, Borg Warner and IHI Charging Systems 
(“IHI”), and remain well placed to take advantage 
of growth in the turbocharger sector. I have 
previously commented on the development of 
a family of parts for IHI, some of which are now 
in production. We anticipate that the remaining 
elements will enter production in the new 
ﬁnancial year, in line with our original expectations, 
and our Walsall engineers are currently working 
on new turbocharger projects which will deliver 
further growth in future years.
Walsall also produces bearing housing castings 
for use in commercial diesel turbochargers, 
the majority of which are supplied to Borg 
Warner in the UK. We have recently extended 
this relationship further, with the supply of our 
ﬁrst fully ﬁnished component machined by a 
sub-contractor, and believe that there is further 
potential for us to supply machined components 
to this market.
Our existing customers account for less than 50% 
of the European market for turbochargers and we 
believe that established OEMs and new entrants 
represent an important source of growth. Our 
sales eﬀort will be directed towards these areas 
while ensuring that our existing customers receive 
the high standards of service they require.
Leicester, which produces mid-size castings with 
complex metallurgy, has enjoyed good year-
on-year sales growth, taking revenues to above 
£10m and reducing reliance on the construction 
sector. Unlike Walsall, where demand is driven by 
long-term supply arrangements, a proportion of 
Leicester sales are related to contracts for supply 
to a discrete project. Typical of these is our supply 
of suspension components to a Singapore-based 
manufacturer of military vehicles, where Leicester 
has recently completed supplying the second 
project phase and has conﬁrmed contracts for the 
third phase, with revenue in excess of £700,000, 
which will require supply in the second half of the 
new ﬁnancial year. 
In 2009 we combined the management of both 
the Walsall and Leicester foundries, achieving 
operational and overhead synergies. We have 
also made good progress in creating cross-selling 
opportunities between the two foundries. 
The most notable success here has been in 
the commercial diesel market, where the 
long-standing relationships from Walsall and 
metallurgical expertise from Leicester have enabled 
us to establish a credible position for the supply of 
turbine casings, the other major iron casting in a 
truck turbocharger. We look forward to receiving 
our ﬁrst orders to supply these castings in the 
course of 2012/13.
“Chamberlin continues to make progress in 
growing revenues and proﬁtability, and we 
are in very good shape ﬁnancially to support 
ongoing growth.”
Pictured: Turbocharger chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2012
Stock code: CMH
11
Introduction Performance Governance Financial Statements
Russell Ductile Castings (“RDC”)
RDC is located in Scunthorpe and specialises in 
heavyweight castings up to 6,000kg. The majority 
of these are used in demanding applications 
requiring high strength, corrosion resistance or 
high temperature capabilities and these all require 
the production of complex shapes in specialist 
grades of iron. RDC has a recognised expertise 
in manufacturing these challenging parts and 
the ﬁnal objective of the foundry reorganisation 
in 2009 was to increase focus on this sector and 
deliver growth. I am therefore pleased to report 
that RDC revenues grew by over 20% during the 
course of the ﬁnancial year. 
Core markets for RDC are process equipment, 
mining, power generation and construction 
equipment but our expertise is relevant to a wide 
range of applications in other industries and I 
expect to see further growth in the business. This 
will include the production of a unique range of 
castings for the Crossrail project, where the most 
complex parts of the tunnel system are supported 
with cast iron lining segments. 
Crossrail is structured as three tunnelling projects, 
each requiring around £1.0m of castings. RDC is 
currently supplying castings for the ﬁrst tunnelling 
project and we would hope to win more of these 
contracts as Crossrail progresses over the next
few years.
Engineering
Exidor
Our door hardware business, located in Cannock, 
has made signiﬁcant progress during the ﬁnancial 
year and is well-placed for growth. Exidor has 
a well established position in the market for 
emergency exit hardware, where it is market 
leader in the UK, and in February 2011 we 
acquired assets which allowed us to expand into 
door closers, a related market. The integration 
of these assets was completed on schedule with 
new routes to market, product certiﬁcation and 
the relocation of manufacturing operations all 
complete by December 2011. The product range 
we acquired is well-regarded by customers who are 
responding positively to the high service standards 
to which Exidor operates. The new range has 
produced a strong ﬁrst full year contribution and 
I am conﬁdent that we will see growth in both 
revenues and proﬁtability in this business as we 
take market share.
Petrel
Petrel supplies lighting and control systems for 
hazardous environments in applications where 
the risk of explosion requires tightly regulated 
equipment. Overall the business is performing in 
line with expectations and we are investigating 
niche applications which create opportunities for 
specialist new products.
Outlook
Chamberlin continues to make progress in 
growing revenues and proﬁtability, and we are 
conﬁdent that we can build on the progress we 
have already achieved. 
Our focus in the new ﬁnancial year remains on 
both driving sales and enhancing Chamberlin’s 
operational performance. Currently, the 
opportunities we see ahead of us leave us well-
placed for the ﬁrst half and the Group remains in 
very good shape ﬁnancially to support ongoing 
growth. I look forward to updating shareholders 
on our progress in due course.
Tim Hair
Chief Executive    
21 May 2012
Chamberlin supply critical turbocharger components to the automotive industry
