 23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
Introduction
I am pleased to report a significant 
improvement in Chamberlin’s performance 
which has led to a reduction in the level of 
losses in the second half. 
The improvement principally reflects actions 
taken by the new management team to 
stem losses and address the reduction in 
revenues within the foundry operations. 
While foundry revenues are down by 14% 
year-on-year, they have stabilised with second 
half revenues only 3% down on the first half. 
As we previously reported, the light castings 
operations at Walsall showed most resilience 
with revenues down 3.5% while the medium 
and heavy castings business experienced 
reduced demand from key markets, including 
construction, quarrying and mineral 
processing, and power generation. By contrast 
the Group’s engineering businesses, which 
accounted for 25% of Group sales, delivered 
revenue growth of 12% and a significant 
increase in operating profits. 
We start the new financial 
year in a significantly better 
position than the last 
and while there are still 
challenges, we look forward 
to the Group returning to 
sustained profitable growth 
ahead of our original plans.
Results
Revenues for the year ended 31 March 2014 
were down 8.6% to £38.6m (2013: £42.3m). As 
a result, the Group generated an underlying 
loss before tax of £0.8m (2013: profit of 
£1.3m).
The diluted underlying loss per share was 7.6p 
with the second half loss at 0.8p versus the 
first half loss of 6.8p (2013: earnings per share 
of 13.4p).
On a statutory basis, the loss before tax was 
£2.1m (2013: profit of £0.8m), and diluted 
statutory loss per share was 20.2p (2013: 
earnings per share of 9.0p). 
Reflecting the poor operational performance, 
Chamberlin incurred an operating cash 
outflow of £1.5m (2013: inflow of £2.3m). The 
Group’s overdraft and net borrowings at  
31 March 2014 increased to £3.6m (2013: 
£1.0m). The Group’s borrowings were 
previously financed by a £5.0m overdraft 
facility. However, during the year, we agreed 
new asset backed debt facilities totalling 
£7.3m. This comprises a £6.0m invoice 
discounting facility, a £0.8m loan, and a £0.5m 
overdraft. 
Dividend
At the half year, we reported that the Board 
had decided to suspend the payment 
of dividends until the Group’s trading 
performance justified the restoration 
of payments and we are therefore not 
recommending the payment of a final 
dividend (2013: total 3.25p). 
The Board
In September 2013, we were delighted to 
welcome Kevin Nolan and David Roberts 
to the Board as Chief Executive and Finance 
Director respectively.
Kevin Nolan has 30 years’ senior level 
experience in the engineering sector and joins 
Chamberlin from global materials engineering 
group, Wall Colmonoy Ltd, where he was 
Managing Director. He previously worked 
for Doncasters Group Ltd, the international 
engineering group which manufactures 
precision components and assemblies where 
he successfully led the expansion of a number 
of the Group’s business units and latterly 
was appointed Divisional Managing Director 
of Doncasters’ largest division, Doncasters 
Turbine Airfoils and Structural Castings 
Division. 
David Roberts has substantial experience 
in senior financial roles within the 
manufacturing and engineering sectors. 
He was previously at Titanium Metals 
Corporation, a global producer of titanium 
melted and mill products, where he was 
European Finance Director. Before this, 
he worked for Britax International plc as 
Divisional Finance Director of Rear v ision 
Systems, a supplier of original equipment 
exterior mirrors for passenger cars and 
light trucks to automotive manufacturers 
worldwide. 
Staff
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank 
all our staff for their tremendous efforts over 
a very challenging year. Their hard work will 
help to underpin Chamberlin’s continuing 
turnaround. 
Strategy & Outlook
At the half year, we reported that the new 
management team was focused on evaluating 
the necessary actions to return the Leicester 
and Scunthorpe foundry operations to 
profitability and at the same time, reviewing 
both the cost base and the Group’s growth 
plans. 
The significant improvement in the Group’s 
second half performance is encouraging 
and reflects some of the benefits of the 
actions already taken. We believe that 
there is further scope to reduce costs and 
improve productivity, which remains a key 
focus. The team is also working on business 
development and on improving processes. 
Management efforts remains focused on 
increasing sales in the existing businesses to 
improve capacity utilisation. 
We start the new financial year in a 
significantly better position than the last 
and while there are still challenges, we look 
forward to the Group returning to sustained 
profitable growth ahead of our original plans. 
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse 
Chairman 
20 May 2014
Chairman’s  
Statement
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse
Strategic Report
www.chamberlin.co.uk
Stock code: CMH
03
02
