 Pictured: Centre Case and Bearing  
Support castings for gas turbine
23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
The financial year to 31 March 2014 saw 
mixed trading conditions. Group sales are 
down 8.6% compared to 2013, with sales from 
Foundry activities down 14% and offsetting 
good growth in the Engineering businesses 
of 12%. The slowdown in the Foundry 
Division was especially apparent in the power 
generation, quarrying and mineral processing 
sectors, but there was also a reduction in 
order levels in turbocharger casings and 
housings. Although underlying demand 
remains subdued our focus during the 
second half of the financial year under review 
was to significantly reduce cost and improve 
productivity. At the same time we have 
implemented a more strategic approach to 
business development and the identification 
of new opportunities. 
While it has been a difficult year, good 
progress has been made and we are 
encouraged by the improvement in 
performance in the second half of the year. 
We believe that Chamberlin’s prospects for 
the medium term remain attractive.
Foundries
Foundry revenues show a 14% reduction 
year-on-year to £29.1m (2013: £33.7m), with 
revenues at the Leicester and Scunthorpe 
foundries especially impacted by lower 
demand while the Walsall foundry showed 
only a 3.5% year-on-year reduction. 
Encouragingly, foundry revenues in the 
second half have stabilised, with a 3% 
reduction between the second and first half. 
The total operating loss was £0.2m (2013: 
profit of £2.2m) but there was a significant 
improvement in the second half performance 
with a marginal operating profit of £0.04m 
against a loss of £0.28m in the first half. 
During the second half we brought the 
operations of the three foundries under 
a single management structure to create 
a Foundry Division. This has eliminated 
duplicate roles and reduced costs. 
Our foundry at Walsall specialises in 
producing small castings which have complex 
internal geometry, in mid-to-high volumes. 
It uses multiple grades of grey cast iron 
and the castings are typically below 3kg in 
weight. Its expertise in the development and 
production of castings with complex internal 
passages is well established and the complex 
geometry is achieved through the use of 
innovative core assembly techniques. A major 
market for the Walsall foundry is automotive 
turbochargers, where modern designs require 
careful alignment of cooling and lubrication 
passages to meet the increased performance 
demanded by modern engines. Turbochargers 
accounted for 35.0% of the Foundry Division 
sales (2013: 31.3%). Legislation to reduce CO
2
 
emissions is promoting the introduction of 
smaller, turbocharged petrol engines and this 
technology shift is continuing. 
During 2013/14 the Walsall foundry 
commissioned a chemical cleaning plant, 
enabling castings to be despatched clear 
of any sand or potential blockages. It also 
alleviates stresses that could be induced 
into the castings from alternative cleaning 
methods. This additional process has reduced 
lead time and improved quality. 
Our foundry in Leicester produces mid-
size castings typically around 20kg, with 
moderately complex internal shapes although 
typically with demanding metallurgy 
requirements around temperature, strength 
and wear resistance. A major market for 
the Leicester foundry is the construction 
equipment industry, and demand from 
this sector weakened significantly in the 
financial year. In addition, as previously 
reported, the Leicester foundry experienced 
severe operational problems during the year 
which increased scrap rates and created 
inefficiencies due to machine downtime.  
We took remedial action, which has rectified 
the issues. However, the additional one-off 
cost incurred during the financial year was 
£0.5m. While demand remains subdued at 
Leicester, work is underway to broaden the 
customer base.
Our foundry in Scunthorpe specialises in the 
production of heavy castings weighing up to 
6,000kg which have complex geometry and 
challenging metallurgy. Applications typically 
require high strength or high temperature 
performance and include castings for large 
process compressors, industrial gas turbines 
and mining, quarrying and construction 
equipment. The foundry also takes 
responsibility for machining the castings, via 
a range of sub-contractors, and so a large 
proportion of its output is supplied as a 
finished part. Demand from its key markets 
during the financial year remained subdued 
and we took action to reduce the foundry’s 
cost base to ensure a lower breakeven point. 
This has created a stronger platform which 
will help to ensure increased margin when 
volumes return. We are currently working 
closely with customer design engineers on 
high impact resistance irons to develop 
existing grades to a better performance level.
All foundries in the Group benefit from 
advanced thermal analysis testing equipment 
which allows a greater level of understanding 
and control of the base irons before the 
metal is committed to pouring into moulds. 
By associating this with the current casting 
simulation software we are able to advise 
on all aspects of production from the initial 
design stages.
Chief 
Executive’s 
Review
Kevin Nolan
chamberlin plc
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2014 23360.02   19 June 2014 2:05 PM    proof 4
Engineering
Revenues from the engineering operations 
rose by 12% year-on-year to £9.5m (2013: 
£8.5m) and operating profits rose 76% to 
£0.7m (£2013: £0.4m). This Division now 
accounts for approximately 25% of Group 
revenues. 
Exidor
Exidor is the UK market leader in panic and 
emergency exit door hardware, and in 2011 
it expanded into the market for door closers 
through the acquisition of Jebron, thereby 
broadening its offering to its existing panic 
hardware customers. Exidor has continued 
to consolidate its UK market leading position 
in panic hardware and to improve its share 
of the door closer market, and to service 
the emerging need for physical security to 
protect high value retail infrastructure and 
critical national infrastructure. Exidor has 
been targeting increased export sales and 
I am pleased to report significant success, 
driven by a more strategic approach to new 
export market selection and development. 
We expect to see continuing growth in 
exports over the current year and beyond. 
Exidor operates in a highly regulated market 
as its products are for life-critical applications 
and its customers place great value upon 
the assurance of genuinely British designed, 
manufactured and certified product. 
Petrel
Petrel Limited manufactures lighting and 
control equipment for use in hazardous 
areas. The Company was established over 
30 years ago and provides high quality 
products, designed for use in the rigorous 
and demanding environments classified 
as hazardous areas. It has established 
a reputation for high quality design, 
development and production and supplies 
customers in the UK, European and 
International markets. 
To complement their existing hazardous 
area lighting portfolio, Petrel Limited 
recently entered the LED market and now 
provides its customers with solutions that 
carry the additional benefits of longer life, 
lower maintenance and reduced energy 
consumption. Being solid state components 
LEDs are also less prone to damage and 
external shock making them ideal for use 
in harsh environments. This technology 
continues to develop at a considerable pace 
and the Petrel LED offer utilises the very latest 
technology to ensure that customers can 
achieve the optimum benefits in terms of 
light output and reduced maintenance.
The very latest product launched is a portable 
light fitting. The PLx range is designed for 
use in a wide variety of Zone 1/21 hazardous 
area applications. Manufactured solely in 
the UK, it will provide users with a robust, 
reliable lighting solution whilst remaining light 
enough to be carried around on site with 
ease. Available in both fluorescent and LED 
versions, this product utilises the very latest 
in lighting technology to deliver high levels 
of lighting in a truly portable fitting. During 
2014 1.7% of sales (2013: 0.0%) were from 
portable lighting and LED. Further growth 
opportunities are expected to come from 
both product offerings. 
Outlook
The significant improvement in the 
underlying loss position of the Group in the 
second half of the year is very encouraging 
and we believe that Chamberlin should 
return to profitability during the new financial 
year. This will largely reflect the stabilisation 
in revenues and the realigned cost base. We 
believe that there is continuing scope to 
improve efficiencies and this remains a strong 
focus in the new financial year. At the same 
time, we are concentrating on driving new 
opportunities across the Foundry Division. 
Given the gestation period, we would expect 
to see the material results of these efforts to 
become more apparent in the financial year 
ending 31 March 2016. We expect to see 
continuing good progress within the two 
engineering operations. 
I remain very encouraged by prospects for 
enhanced performance. 
Kevin Nolan 
Chief Executive 
20 May 2014
Bright Sparks
www.chamberlin.co.uk
Bringing technical  
expertise in-house
During 2013/14 the Walsall foundry 
commissioned a chemical cleaning plant, 
enabling castings to be despatched clear 
of any sand or potential blockages. It also 
alleviates stresses that could be induced 
into the castings from alternative cleaning 
methods. This additional process has reduced 
lead time and improved quality. 
For more information on Chamberlin 
Group operations please visit our website at
07
Stock code: CMH
www.chamberlin.co.uk
06
Strategic Report
Business Review
