 06 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2011 •
Chief Executive’s review
Chariot stands at a pivotal stage of its 
development as we move into the drilling 
phase of our exploration programme, 
the results of which have the potential 
to be transformational for the Company 
and for Namibia. The team has continued 
to explore and maximise the prospectivity 
of our assets in preparation for the 
operational year ahead in which we 
will continue to develop our portfolio 
and balance risk through further 
farm-out agreements and new business 
opportunities whilst concurrently 
commencing our Namibian four to 
five exploration well programme 
through to the end of 2013.
Exploration progress –  
an operational year ahead
The period under review saw significant 
improvement in our exploration progress, 
working towards mitigating risk and 
funding further projects to develop our 
assets, culminating in the successful 
procurement of a drilling rig contract 
with A. P. Moller Maersk A/S (“Maersk”) 
for a one well drilling slot on the Tapir 
South prospect commencing next 
month using the Maersk Deliverer 
drilling rig, with Chariot as operator. 
The Maersk Deliverer is an ultra 
deepwater semi-submersible drilling 
rig, ideal for the planned total vertical 
depth subsea level (5,100m) of Tapir 
South. It is anticipated that the rig 
will arrive on location, 80km offshore 
Namibia, at the end of March 2012 
and that the drilling of the Tapir South 
prospect will commence shortly 
thereafter. This is only the second 
well to be drilled in the Namibe Basin 
and its results could see Namibia 
become a significant oil province.
Following the drilling of Tapir South, 
a second well, Kabeljou (2714/6-1), 
is anticipated to be spud in H2 2012. 
This will be operated by Petrobras and 
the Chariot cost of the well carried by 
BP. With the well location agreed by all 
partners, Petrobras is currently ordering 
long lead items and setting up a support 
base in Luderitz Bay whilst concurrently 
tendering for a suitable drilling rig. 
Kabeljou (2714/6-1) is located on the 
Nimrod prospect in a water depth of 
350m with an anticipated total depth 
of 3,100m. The prospect has a 24% 
chance of success and gross un-risked 
mean prospective resources of 4.9 billion 
barrels, making the potential outcome 
of this well extremely exciting.
Following the results of Tapir South 
(1811/5-1), Kabeljou (2714/6-1) and the 
evaluation of the 3,500km² of 3D seismic 
data recently acquired in the Central 
Blocks, the Company will look to drill 
a third well. This will be a crucial time 
for the Company as we stand on the 
verge of seeing the high potential 
of our assets realised. 
Farm-out development
In August the Company signed two 
farm-in contracts, one with BP (50% of 
Chariot’s equity in 2714A, one well carry 
and back costs) and the other with PGS 
(10% Central Blocks, 50% of costs of 
3,500km² 3D seismic acquisition). 
Throughout the year Chariot has 
continued to meet with high calibre 
companies who have shown significant 
interest in our data across all of our 
licence areas and negotiations remain 
ongoing. Since opening the data room, 
further West African oil discoveries have 
been made near to our acreage, such 
Highlights
k   Well prepared for an operational 
year ahead
k   Two wells to be spud this year:
 k   Tapir South (1811/5-1): April 2012
 k   Kabeljou (2714/6-1): Q3 2012
k   Petrobras elected for operatorship 
of Kabeljou (2714/6-1), currently 
tendering a rig
k   Farm-out discussions continue
k   Evaluation of other African 
opportunities progresses
Paul Welch
Chief Executive Officer “ The last ten months have seen the Company 
work hard to make ready for the drilling phase 
of our exploration programme, the results of 
which have the potential to be transformational 
for the Company and for Namibia.”
Company Overview
07 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2011 •
Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Overview Business Review
as that of Cobalt International Energy’s 
Cameia-1 well in Southern Angola, 
which is on trend with our Northern 
Licence Blocks and appears to share 
analogous features with our prospects. 
This has sparked further interest in 
our Northern prospects and we thus 
continue in our negotiations and will 
update the market with any material 
developments when they occur. The 
funds raised in the placing announced 
post period end ensure that we are in 
a very strong position when negotiating 
farm-out terms.
Opportunities evaluation
Throughout the period, the technical 
team has continued to evaluate and 
analyse numerous new business 
opportunities with the intention of 
finding an African asset of suitable fit 
within the Chariot portfolio. In doing 
so, we aim to balance the Company’s 
risk at the same time as developing 
Chariot’s broader involvement in Africa. 
We are currently in discussions regarding 
a number of carefully considered assets 
and we look forward to reporting our 
progress in due course.
Operating in Namibia
It is a pleasure working alongside the 
Namibian Government and Ministry 
of Mines and Energy Namibia who 
have supported the Company into its 
First Renewal Phase. We would like to 
thank both bodies for their continued 
support and their co-operation in 
the development of our operational 
bases in Walvis and Luderitz Bay as the 
Company moves into the drilling phase. 
Chariot has continued to monitor its 
effect on the environment, carrying 
out appropriate Environmental Impact 
Assessments as well as devising an 
Environmental Management Plan in 
preparation for drilling. Chariot also 
looks to ensure that local Namibian 
companies are employed in a variety 
of ways, from technical services and 
logistics to catering. As we move 
deeper into 2012 the number of local 
partnerships will continue to increase 
and, should we encounter success, we 
will be able offer further job opportunities, 
providing educational and economic 
support to the country. 
Looking forward
I would like to thank our staff and all 
those that have been associated with 
the Company’s progress over the last 
ten months for their consistent hard 
work and our shareholders for their 
continued support. This is a very 
exciting time for the Company at the 
commencement of our four to five well 
drilling programme, the outcome of 
which could see Namibia become an 
important hydrocarbon province, and 
Chariot a significant independent 
African oil explorer and producer.
Paul Welch
Chief Executive Officer 
20 March 2012
Subsequent events
On 5 April 2012 the Company 
announced that the Tapir South 
(1811/5-1) well had spud. The 
position and total depth of the well 
remains unchanged: it is located 
80km offshore Namibia in the 
Company’s Northern Block 1811A, 
in which Chariot has a 100% equity 
interest. The well is being drilled to 
an estimated total depth of 5,100m 
TVDss and, as announced following 
the placing of 20 March 2012, this 
will now include extended drilling 
time to ensure that one of the deeper 
identified targets is drilled through 
to its base. The drilling and logging 
operations are expected to take 
approximately 70 days and the results 
received will provide invaluable 
information for furthering our 
knowledge in the area. This will also 
have the potential to significantly 
de-risk other prospects in near 
proximity, as well as to make Namibia 
a recognised oil province.
Also on 5 April 2012 Chariot reported 
that, having received an update from 
the operator, the Kabeljou (2714/6-1) 
well would now be likely to spud 
earlier due to the likelihood of a drilling 
unit being secured in Q3 2012. 
