 CHieF exe CutiV e’s 
REvIEW
Hig Hlig Hts
  Significant work programmes to be 
carried out across the portfolio over 
the coming year
  Material improvements in the 
understanding of the petroleum 
systems in Namibia
  Focused strategy and clear approach  
to executing Company goal
  Seeking to leverage third party 
partnering and achieving best 
optionality
  Third party activity will help inform 
prospect selection for drilling
 Chariot’s strategy remains centred 
around creating transformational 
growth through the discovery and 
development of new hydrocarbon 
provinces. Our Namibian assets are 
now part of a more diversified West 
African portfolio and we are pleased 
with our new early entrant positions  
in Mauritania and Morocco.
Business  
REvIEW
The Company accumulated a significant 
amount of data during the last year.  
The well information from our Namibian 
drilling campaign, although unsuccessful, 
has materially improved our understanding 
of the petroleum systems in Namibia,  
and the extensive 3D seismic data in the 
Namibian Central blocks has led to the 
description of the giant potential that 
exists in this area. The additional assets  
in offshore Mauritania and Morocco 
included legacy data which allowed the 
Company to acquire an extensive 3D 
seismic programme in Mauritania.  
The improvement in understanding that  
these datasets have resulted in, and the 
broadening of the Chariot portfolio, 
means this has been a very interesting  
and exciting time to become CEO of 
Chariot. I look forward to progressing the 
exploration portfolio which will expose 
our shareholders to giant potential in the 
success case.
09
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Growth through exploration 
– Chariot’s strategy
The goal of the Company is to create 
transformational value through the 
discovery of material accumulations 
of hydrocarbons. In order to achieve 
this growth through exploration, the 
Company will take large equity positions 
in the early phases of exploration in new 
or emerging hydrocarbon provinces. To 
mitigate risk, we will develop these assets 
through levered partnering, portfolio 
diversity and the application of technology, 
all elements of which are evident in our 
current asset base. This approach ensures 
that the Company applies capital discipline 
throughout its projects. 
Levered Partnering
As mentioned above, the Company aims 
to manage risk by leveraging all of its 
equity positions and securing partnerships 
to share in the costs and rewards of 
exploration going forward. This not 
only provides industry validation as to 
the quality of an asset, but it also means 
that we are able to use the additional 
capital, through the recovery of back 
costs, and payment of seismic or drilling 
contributions, to build the portfolio in 
other areas. We executed this successfully 
in the farm-out of block 2714A to 
Petrobras, which covered the costs of 3D 
seismic in the block, and BP which carried 
the majority of Chariot’s costs on the 
Kabeljou-1 well.
Continuing with this methodology, 
the Company will be looking to execute 
the partnering process in its Namibian 
Northern and Central Areas this year. 
A data room has already opened for the 
Zamba prospect in the Northern Area 
and, should the partnering process be 
successful, the Company will be looking 
to drill this 375mmbbls gross mean 
prospective resource prospect in 2014.
In order to achieve the best optionality 
for the Company and to minimise 
its exposure to risk, Chariot considers 
it critical to ensure that its prospects are 
assessed and evaluated to the best of  
the Company’s abilities prior to farm-out. 
In the Central Area, third party drilling 
activity will be taking place in adjoining 
acreage during 1H of this year on similar 
prospects to some of those within our 
acreage. As such, the Company considers 
it prudent to await these drilling results 
in order to inform our prospect selection. 
The data room for the Central Blocks, 
therefore, is anticipated to open in 
3Q this year and, should the Company 
be successful in the partnering process, 
it will be looking to drill in 2014, subject 
to rig availability. 
The Company also has the intention to 
partner in Mauritania and Morocco prior 
to drilling: in Mauritania following the 
interpretation of its 3,500km
2
 seismic 
programme which is expected at year 
end 2013; and then in Morocco after 
reprocessing and interpreting its legacy 
2D data across all blocks and subsequent 
design of any follow-on 3D seismic 
programme that may be required to 
fully describe the potential and secure 
favourable commercial terms. 
10
Business  
REvIEW
Ch IEF Ex ECUTIvE’S REvIEW 
Continue D
Chariot is focused on the exploration of new and emerging hydrocarbon 
provinces where the scope for giant discoveries still exists. Chariot’s assets 
are early stage but located in proven basins with high future potential.
our strateg Y
Create transformational 
stakeholder value 
through the discovery  
of material accumulations 
of hydrocarbons
Chariot has a track record of success in securing industry funding 
with three successful farm-outs to date; Petrobras, BP and AziNam. 
Having secured large equity positions and diversified into 
frontier, proven and emerging basins, Chariot will seek to use 
its early mover advantage to continue to farm-down its assets.  
This will ensure capital discipline, reduce risk exposure 
and provide additional finance for the further exploration 
and development of its portfolio.
Risk Management and Capital Discipline
Objective
Explore in new 
or emerging 
hydrocarbon  
provinces
1 Take large equity 
positions in the 
early phases of 
exploration
2 Manage risk through
  Levered partnering
  Portfolio diversity
   A p p l i c a t i o n o f 
technology
3 Apply capital 
discipline
4
strategy
10
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 3 under-explored, 
highly prospective 
regions
Track record 
of accessing quality 
acreage ahead 
of the industry
Building on our work to date 
and moving forward
In terms of our upcoming activity, we have 
multiple value triggers within our longer 
term exploration programme and, within 
the nearer term, there will be regional 
third party news flow which will provide 
important information for the Company 
to incorporate into the understanding 
of the various petroleum systems and 
the development of its portfolio. 
Whilst there is no drilling planned this year, 
the team will be carrying out a significant 
amount of work in order to prepare 
its various assets for their next stages 
of development. This will include:
  11,000 km of 2D reprocessing and 
interpretation offshore Morocco, which 
will result in a prospective resource 
update in 3Q 2013 and be followed by 
the design of a 3D seismic programme
  receipt of the Pre Stack Depth 
Migration (PSDM) of the 3,500km
2
 
of 3D seismic data acquired offshore 
Mauritania with a subsequent resource 
update and initiation of partnering 
programme in 1H 2014
  the partnering process initiation 
in the Central Area offshore Namibia 
in 3Q 2013, already underway for the 
Northern Area
  the final evaluation of Kabeljou-1 well 
and forward plan for Southern Block 
2714A to be agreed with our partners 
in 2Q 2013 
  the planning of 3D seismic acquisition 
in the Southern Area in 4Q 2013, 
intended to commence in 2014, further 
to the identification of an interesting 
new play in this region
All this additional work will serve 
to de-risk and mature our portfolio 
towards partnering and drilling.
Alongside this activity, there will be 
several significant drilling programmes 
taking place this year in close proximity  
to our licences which have the potential  
to de-risk our prospects. 
HRT will be testing the deeper petroleum 
systems with three wells in Namibia. 
This activity will provide important 
information in the de-risking and targeting 
of prospects in the Central Blocks as well 
as help to outline the 3D seismic design 
of 2714B. In Mauritania, Tullow, Dana and 
Petronas will be commencing a four well 
drilling programme, two of which we 
believe will have read through potential 
into our Block. In Morocco, the drilling 
campaigns of Cairn and Kosmos will  
also provide near term activity that will  
inform the potential of both proven and 
new play systems which extend into 
Chariot acreage. 
the Chariot team
Our in-house team has a track record 
of successful partnering and securing 
industry funding, as evidenced by our 
farm-outs with Petrobras, BP and 
AziNam and we also have a proven ability 
to acquire exploration acreage ahead 
of our competitors. Our exploration team 
has extensive experience worldwide, 
having been involved in exploration 
operations in 31 different countries 
worldwide, including Namibia, Mauritania 
and Morocco. The team has been 
involved in over 40 discoveries to date, 
14 of which were major. We are looking 
to replicate this success with Chariot.
new V entures
Over the last 12 months we have doubled 
our acreage and we will continue to seek to 
add further opportunities to our asset base. 
We follow a stringent methodology in order 
to assess potential acreage and will continue 
to use this going forward. As noted, the 
focus is on regions that are under-explored 
but have working petroleum systems, though 
we will also consider niche opportunities 
that will provide the Company with 
competitive advantage. 
Looking Forward 
We consider Chariot’s portfolio to hold 
giant prospectivity which has the potential 
to create transformational value. The 
Company is dedicated to delivering on  
its strategy and will be using the significant 
data accumulated this year to develop its 
asset portfolio. The Company will seek  
to balance risk through the validation  
and support of third party leveraged 
partnerships which in turn will enable the 
Company to guard its capital and continue 
to build the exploration portfolio.  
There are multiple value triggers that will 
occur during the course of the year with 
regional third party drilling activity providing 
read through to the Chariot portfolio 
as well as developments within our own 
programme. The Company will seek 
partners to support the continuation of its 
drilling campaign offshore Namibia in 2014, 
the commencement of drilling offshore 
Mauritania in 2015 and in Morocco in 2016.
With careful planning, an exceptional 
team and high quality acreage, the 
Company intends to capitalise on our 
early mover position and to maximise 
value from our assets. I would like 
to thank our shareholders for their 
continued support and the Chariot  
team for their ongoing hard work.  
I look forward to reporting on our 
progress over the coming months.
l arry Bottomley 
Chief Executive Officer
19 March 2013
11
Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
