 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 08
STRATEGIC REPORT
“ Over the course of the last year, Chariot has made 
fundamental changes to the core of its business 
strategy and Executive Management Team.  
 
The Company’s primary goal remains the same and 
it continues to develop its portfolio towards the 
discovery of material accumulations of hydrocarbons. 
The path to delivery of that goal has been further 
protected by an increased focus on capital discipline 
and risk management. This is underpinned by a focus 
on portfolio balance, optimisation of early positioning, 
efficient investment recovery and targeted partnering 
leverage that will enable Chariot to execute its ongoing 
exploration programme.  
 
As a result, the Company is now driven by a long term, 
sustainable business model that will retain considerable 
upside for shareholders, at the same time as balancing 
risk through committed portfolio diversification.”
Strategic positioning within  
the Atlantic margins
Portfolio diversification
Over the course of the last 18 months, 
Chariot has diversified its Namibian focus 
towards a broader Atlantic margins theme, 
with the portfolio now spread across the 
established, emerging and frontier provinces 
of Namibia, Mauritania, Morocco and, more 
recently, the Barreirinhas Basin offshore Brazil. 
These regions are underexplored, with  
high volume prospectivity already identified.  
The potential exists not only in locally proven 
play types but also in significant analogue 
discoveries on the corresponding conjugate 
margins. Examples include recent Nova 
Scotia discoveries comparative with offshore 
Morocco and the producing Jubilee project 
offshore Ghana relative to the Company’s 
Brazilian acreage. As a result, Chariot now has 
a wider collection of opportunities covering 
a range of geographies and exploration 
maturity within its portfolio. This balance 
provides a solid platform for a sustained 
growth rate combined with a high level of 
optionality as the programme progresses.
Fast follower
In line with the Company’s strategy, Chariot’s 
in-house team acquired and operated large 
equity positions in these underexplored, 
highly prospective regions at low cost with 
minimal commitment. During the course of 
2013, the Company used this early entrant 
vantage point to reposition itself from being 
a “play opener” to that of a “fast follower”. 
This meant that, using its re-awarded and 
extended licence periods in Namibia and its 
long exploration permits offshore Morocco, 
Mauritania and Brazil, it could combine its 
proprietary data with that of the information 
from growing third party activity in close 
proximity to work up optimum prospects 
for drilling. This ensures that, in these 
underexplored regions, stakeholders are 
exposed to the highest chance of success 
with a lower capital expenditure and better 
risk mitigation. There has been a notable 
growth of industry interest within the regions 
in which Chariot holds acreage over the last 
year and, with numerous drilling campaigns 
planned for the year ahead, the Company will 
seek to continue to profit from this strategic 
positioning going forward.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
Leveraged partnering, capital discipline  
and portfolio management
In addition to positioning itself as a fast 
follower, the Company has also focused its 
strategy on delivering leveraged partnerships 
to reduce risk and cost exposure and to 
accelerate its work programmes. The key 
benefits of partnering are not only to share 
in the costs and risk of exploration, and to 
benefit from the experiences and alternate 
viewpoint that partners bring, but also to 
provide critical third party validation to 
the asset. Through the farm-out of Block 
C-19, Mauritania, to Cairn, as announced in 
August 2013, the Company recovered the 
costs of its 3,500km
2
 3D seismic campaign 
as well as a share of other back costs. 
This means that Chariot now holds a 55% 
interest in a transformational opportunity 
that it continues to operate. This “zero 
cost exploration” aspiration exemplifies the 
Company’s shift of focus to capital discipline. 
Using the abilities of its technical team, it will 
continue to develop its opportunities to the 
standard sought by the key industry players 
in order to partner across the portfolio. In 
addition, the Company continually evaluates 
an opportunity’s risk versus value at each 
stage of its development, ensuring that the 
portfolio is managed in line with its potential 
to deliver transformational growth. 
Governance
Behind the adjustment of the Company’s 
strategic outlook has been a new Executive 
Management Team and a significantly 
strengthened Board. We were disappointed 
to lose Philip Loader in June 2013 owing 
to the requirements of his new position 
at Woodside Petroleum Ltd. We thank 
him for his contribution to the Company’s 
development and we wish him the best in 
his future ventures. It was at this time that 
I moved from being Senior Independent 
Non-Executive Director to become 
Non-Executive Chairman. I welcomed 
the opportunity to be more directly 
involved in working with the exemplary 
management and exceptional technical 
staff. I look forward to working with all 
stakeholders to deliver the clear potential 
of Chariot’s portfolio and reach its goal 
of transformational growth. In June 2013 
we also welcomed Matthew Taylor, who 
had been Director of Exploration of the 
Company for four years, to the Board  
as Technical Director, joining Mark Reid  
(CFO) and Larry Bottomley (CEO) to  
make up the Executive Management Team.  
Matthew has over 30 years of experience 
in the exploration and production sector 
and has and continues to provide invaluable 
understanding and knowledge of the 
portfolio and the geological make-up  
of the regions in which we work. 
Post period, in February 2014, we  
welcomed geologists Bill Trojan and Dave 
Bodecott to the Board, both of whom 
have significant industry experience and 
whose independent insight will further 
enhance the Board’s decision-making and 
strategic planning. In addition, their in-depth 
knowledge specific to the regions where 
we hold acreage, combined with their 
considerable experience in exploration 
projects, will prove invaluable to the  
ongoing development and maturation  
of the Company’s portfolio. As a result 
of this evolution, we believe that a good 
balance of corporate focused and technically 
minded contributors to the Board has  
been achieved and will continue to drive  
the Company towards delivering 
shareholder value.
Regional relationships
Building and maintaining strong  
relationships within the countries where 
we work is of the utmost importance to 
Chariot. Throughout the year we have held 
regular technical and operating meetings 
with the state oil companies, relevant 
ministries and service companies within  
each of the regions in which we hold 
acreage. This ensures that all parties involved 
in our operations are kept aware of our 
plans and progress. The value implication 
of this can be seen through the licence 
extensions that the Company obtained 
offshore Namibia and Morocco in H1 of 
2013. In sharing the Company’s development 
and technical progress within each of its 
licences, it was able to secure and extend 
potentially valuable contract areas with  
the support of the appropriate governing 
bodies. This ensured that in collaboration 
with our partners, Chariot can optimally 
mature the assets prior to entering the  
next phase of exploration.
We would like to thank the Governments 
and Energy Ministries of Morocco, 
Mauritania, Namibia and Brazil for their 
continued support and cooperation as well 
as the state oil companies with which we are 
partnered – ONHYM, SMH and NAMCOR 
– for their ongoing technical insight and 
collaboration. 
Conclusion
The last year has seen some important 
changes to Chariot’s Executive Management 
and structure with a shift in the strategy 
towards more active portfolio risk 
management and capital discipline. Chariot 
has rebuilt its foundations to sustain regular 
drilling activity in the coming years, giving  
its stakeholders the opportunity for  
ongoing growth and long term value 
creation. Using this strength, the heightened 
industry interest in our assets and our 
continued technical excellence, we look 
forward to securing partnerships that 
will enable the Company to test its 
prospects with the drill bit. All of Chariot’s 
commitments are fully funded beyond  
2014 and we will continue to pursue our 
“zero cost exploration” ambition to drive 
the Company forward.
GEORGE CANJAR
Chairman
18 March 2014
