 Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 10
“ Chariot is an exploration company that seeks 
transformational growth through the discovery of 
material hydrocarbon accumulations for the benefit  
of all stakeholders.  
 
Since joining the Company in 201 1, I have worked 
with the team to develop a diversified and balanced 
portfolio of highly prospective opportunities and the 
Company now holds acreage that has a range of risk 
and maturity. In order for this to be realised, we have 
developed an in-house skillset that has demonstrated 
the ability to identify and mature assets. We have the 
capacity to describe our assets for the purpose of 
securing partners who will provide funding, additional 
technical insight and validation in carrying the prospects 
through to drilling.  
 
Chariot has a track record for securing leveraged 
partnerships and we are focused on delivering partners 
to see our prospectivity tested across the portfolio.” 
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
Technical developments
As well as the strategic developments that 
the Company has built on over the last 
year, it has also made significant advances  
in its technical analysis in all of its regions  
of interest. 
Further to adding another new venture to 
the portfolio offshore Brazil, a substantial 
amount of data has been acquired, 
processed and interpreted during the 
course of this year which has enhanced the 
Company’s understanding of its assets and 
developed the case for further exploration 
development. 
Concurrent to this, the Company has 
leveraged its strong relationships for data 
sharing and has been able to integrate the 
information from third party activity into the 
understanding of its portfolio. In combining 
this additional insight into our own database 
we have been able to maximise the value 
associated with our assets in order to 
provide the best description of our acreage 
for obtaining partnerships to carry the 
programme forward.  15
Up to 15 third party wells will be 
drilled during the course of the next 
two years
55%
The Company now holds a 55%, 
near zero cost operated position  
in Mauritania, with 3,500km
2
 of  
3D proprietary data
“ CHARIOT’S ABILITY TO IDENTIFY AND 
ACCESS HIGH QUALITY, HIGH POTENTIAL 
ACREAGE HAS BEEN EXEMPLIFIED IN  
THE LAST 18 MONTHS, WITH MAJORS  
AND LARGE INDEPENDENTS ESTABLISHING 
ACREAGE POSITIONS IN THE REGIONS  
IN WHICH CHARIOT OPERATES.”
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
Growing industry interest –  
“hot acreage”
Chariot’s ability to identify and access high 
quality, high potential acreage has been 
exemplified in the last 18 months, with 
majors and large independents establishing 
acreage positions in the regions in which 
Chariot operates. 
This not only validates the team’s capabilities 
and the prospectivity associated with the 
regions but also provides multiple value 
triggers with up to 15 third party wells  
being drilled during the course of the  
next two years.
Within the portfolio, Chariot has identified  
a variety of play fairways, both proven  
and new. This increased third party drilling 
activity will test some of these plays, 
allowing Chariot to identify and further 
its understanding on the working of the 
petroleum systems without having to test 
through the drill bit. This will support 
Chariot in targeting those prospects that  
it has de-risked as far as possible within  
the proven play systems and allow for  
a further understanding of the new and 
unproven plays. The potential read-through 
that this may provide ensures that Chariot 
guards its capital for drilling these higher  
risk opportunities as a fast follower with  
an improved chance of success. 
Partnering – the key to drilling
It is the quality of the assets and the 
technical analysis that will be the key driver 
towards gaining a partner for drilling in  
the coming year. 
It is through this partnering that Chariot 
aims to validate the potential of its assets, 
improve the quality of the technical 
description through the contributions of 
these partners and fund its drilling activities, 
and we will not look to drill without this 
endorsement from within the industry. 
With leveraged partnering being 
fundamental to the Company’s business, 
it has spent a significant amount of time 
analysing this process and over the course 
of the last year has developed its partnering 
strategy to that of a two-tier process. Going 
forward, the Company will look to partner 
firstly during the 3D seismic phase and 
secondly for drilling. This should reduce the 
Company’s risk and cost exposure but not 
limit the opportunity for transformational 
growth as Chariot has entered each of 
its licences with significant equity interest 
and operatorship. As a consequence, the 
Company will retain significant equity in  
the licences at the exploration drilling phase. 
This has been implemented offshore 
Mauritania where the team successfully 
partnered with Cairn at the seismic level,  
as announced in August 2013. The Company 
now holds a 55%, near zero cost operated 
position in country, with 3,500km
2
 of 3D 
proprietary data. A second tier partnering 
process to secure an additional partner and 
help fund drilling is anticipated to commence 
in Q2 2014, following the interpretation 
of the 3D data, at which point an audited 
resource update is expected to be released. 
Highlights
•  Significant amount of data 
evaluated and integrated into 
portfolio, maturing drillable 
prospects
•  ‘Good neighbours’ in region 
indicate high quality potential
•  Increased third party activity 
will allow for de-risking of 
Chariot assets prior to  
testing with the drill bit
•  Leveraged partnering 
to reduce Company’s 
risk exposure without 
diminishing opportunity for 
transformational growth
•  Highly capable team with 
ability to identify prospective 
acreage ahead of the industry  2-tier  
partnering
Leveraged partnering to be initiated 
across the entire portfolio in 2014  
at all major phases of investment: 
3D and drilling
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12
STRATEGIC REPORT
CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER’S REVIEW
(continued)
During the course of 2014 the Company  
has initiated first tier partnering based on 
legacy 2D data on its Moroccan acreage  
and will look to commence this process 
for its Brazilian acreage in Q4 2014. A 3D 
seismic programme will be initiated during  
or shortly after these processes, which,  
once interpreted and drilling prospects  
are identified, will be used for the purpose 
of securing partners for drilling in a second 
tier partnering process, anticipated to 
commence in 2015.
In terms of partnering offshore Namibia, in 
the Central Blocks the Company is currently 
undergoing a process based on its 3D data 
interpretation and information from third 
party drilling and the market will be updated 
with its progress as appropriate. In its 
Northern Blocks, the Zamba prospect has 
been identified as a priority drilling target. In 
line with its strategy of leveraging third party 
information at no cost, the Company will 
await the implications of third party drilling 
due in Q2 2014, which should indicate 
the possibility for long range hydrocarbon 
migration, prior to deciding on its ongoing 
activity on the licence.
Other upcoming activity
As well as these partnering processes, the 
Company will continue its own in-house 
technical evaluation of its assets at the 
same time as integrating crucial information 
that will be provided in the numerous 
third party drilling programmes in close 
proximity to its acreage. This will include:
•  The acquiring and processing of 1,700km
2
 
of 3D seismic offshore Morocco. Part of 
this survey will further the understanding 
of the Mio-Pliocene and Jurassic play 
potential in Loukos and Mohammedia 
Reconnaissance and the remainder will 
focus on the Jurassic carbonate play in 
Rabat Deep – where a prospect is already 
defined and the 3D data is primarily 
intended to optimally locate a well
•  The final PSDM interpretation of the 
3,500km
2
 seismic data offshore Mauritania 
– in order to mature prospects for drilling 
in Block C-19
•  The processing and interpretation of 
2,128km of 2D seismic in Block 2714B, 
Namibia – to identify key areas of interest 
for a future 3D seismic programme
•  The completion of the EIA process 
offshore Brazil which will be followed by 
an 800km
2
 3D seismic programme
In terms of third party drilling and 
implications during the course of 
2014/2015:
•  The Pliocene, Jurassic and Early 
Cretaceous plays will be tested offshore 
Morocco in more than ten wells
•  Five wells will test the slope fan, 
stratigraphic trap and turbidite channel 
plays offshore Mauritania
•  The deeper petroleum system and long 
range migration will be tested offshore 
Namibia at Welwitschia in Q2 2014
•  In Brazil, over 8,000km
2
 of 3D seismic 
data will be acquired and nine wells drilled 
testing the Barreirinhas Basin within the 
next four years with one well immediately 
adjacent to Chariot acreage
With the combination of successful 
partnering, the continued application 
of technology and the evaluation and 
integration of third party activity, it is 
anticipated that the Company will drill at 
least three wells within the next three years Doubled
During the last 18 months, the 
Company’s portfolio has doubled in size
3 wells
Chariot has a pipeline of giant drilling 
opportunities and anticipates drilling, 
subject to the securing of partners,  
a minimum of three wells within the 
next three years
“ OUR SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES 
ARE RECOGNISED THROUGHOUT 
THE INDUSTRY, WITH A TRACK 
RECORD OF SUCCESSFUL 
PARTNERING TO DATE.”
STRATEGIC REPORT
Chariot Oil & Gas Limited 
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
The Chariot team
Behind the exceptional work that has been 
carried out across the Chariot portfolio 
is a highly knowledgeable, driven and 
competent team. 
Having a combined experience of more 
than 200 years, its members have been 
party to the identification, development 
and operations of several major discoveries 
worldwide for a variety of super majors, 
majors and large independents. Capitalising 
on this previous experience, the team 
is not only capable of seeking highly 
prospective acreage and maturing it through 
to drilling but it also understands the high 
standard of description that is necessary 
to present to potential partners. All of our 
technical evaluation and data rooms are 
managed in-house, ensuring the effective 
communications of first rate, fully informed 
descriptions. Our skills and capabilities  
are recognised throughout the industry,  
with a track record of successful partnering 
to date. 
During the last 18 months, the Company’s 
portfolio has doubled in size. In order to 
maintain the momentum of exploration 
activity and the high calibre of work, we have 
expanded the technical team accordingly. 
Importantly, this has been managed in such 
a way that the Company will maintain G&A 
capped at 2013 levels. 
Following Matthew Taylor’s appointment 
to the Board, Chariot welcomed Duncan 
Wallace as Exploration Manager to manage 
the exploration activity and its development 
across all of the portfolio. Duncan has  
a wide variety of technical and managerial 
experience and has overseen the full cycle 
of exploration in a new country, from 
office set-up and team recruitment, seismic 
acquisition and processing, to prospect 
maturation, well planning, drilling, appraisal 
and development. During the period, he was 
also joined by an additional two geologists 
and a further senior geophysicist.
Using this skillset the Company will not only 
continue its progression but also its portfolio 
management, ensuring that all forward 
programmes have an appropriate balance  
of risk and reward. It is a pleasure to be  
a part of this exciting team as we mature  
our assets for drilling. I would like to thank  
all of the Chariot staff for their hard work 
and efforts over the course of the last year.
New ventures
Chariot will continue to scope out early 
entrant, low cost, giant opportunities in the 
long term, however its near term focus is 
to progress and de-risk its existing assets 
through continued technical analysis and 
partnering.
Looking forward
With its highly experienced team,  
the focused strategy, risk management, 
capital discipline and careful planning,  
the Company has developed the portfolio 
while repositioning itself to capitalise  
on third party participation. 
 
The Company now holds a balanced 
portfolio, not only in terms of geological 
diversification but also in the exploration 
maturity of each of its assets. As a result, 
Chariot has a pipeline of giant drilling 
opportunities and anticipates drilling, subject 
to the securing of partners, a minimum  
of three wells within the next three years. 
The year ahead is an exciting one. The 
coming months will be focused on the 
progression of our portfolio towards the 
first and second tiers of farm-out, advancing 
our assets towards the drilling phase and  
I look forward to reporting on our progress.
LARRY BOTTOMLEY
Chief Executive Officer
18 March 2014
