 advanced woundcare

wound closure and sealants

chairman’s statement
Overview
I am pleased to inform investors that
AMS continued to make excellent
progress during 2007, further
strengthening its financial position and
progressing key strategic growth
opportunities.
Group revenues increased 18% to £16.9
million with good growth achieved in our
two business segments, advanced
woundcare (up 12%) and wound closure
and sealants (up 41%). The growth was
also well spread across our key global
markets: UK up 27%, rest of Europe up
19% and US up 21%. 
Gross margins continued to improve from
42% to 44% due to a move towards
higher value products and improved
manufacturing efficiencies. 
Pre-tax profits increased 211% to £1.9
million with maiden first half pre-tax
profits being achieved. Post-tax profits of
£2.2 million resulted in earnings per
share (EPS) trebling to 1.57p.
The Group generated a net cash inflow
from operating activities of £3.7 million
contributing to a robust balance sheet
with cash and cash investments of £7.5
million at the year-end. The balance
sheet was reconstructed during 2007, to
create a distributable reserve to allow the
Group to pay dividends in the future. The
Board currently believes that it is best
able to deliver shareholder returns by
growing the business and delivering
capital growth. 
Good progress was made during 2007
with the key identified organic growth
drivers:

Silver alginate — Further product
launches were made in the first half
of 2007 strengthening the Group’s
position in the dynamic silver alginate
market. AMS has two silver
technologies and a broad range of
marketing and distribution partners
selling into the major global markets.

NHS woundcare — The ActivHeal®
advanced woundcare range was
expanded by the introduction of four
new products during the year. Sold
direct to the NHS, ActivHeal®
products are now used in more than
100 Hospital and Primary Care
Trusts, offering substantial savings in
woundcare budgets.

Surgical skin sealant — This novel
product for helping to prevent
infection of surgical sites is now
available in most of the major
international markets following its US
launch in February 2007 by
Kimberly-Clark Health Care, AMS’
exclusive global marketing partner for
this technology.
“The Group has delivered
against all of its major
objectives for 2007”
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
06 
US approval of LiquiBand® — The
LiquiBand® tissue adhesive range
continues to progress through the
FDA approval process with clearance
expected to be obtained during 2008
allowing sale of the product into the
US market.
The Group’s strong balance sheet
provides the opportunity to fund future
growth both organically and through
acquisition and a number of strategic
investment opportunities have been
identified that are currently under
discussion.
Operating Review
Advanced Woundcare
Advanced woundcare sales of £12.8
million were up 12% on the prior year,
well ahead of market growth rates. The
global advanced woundcare business is
estimated at $3.2 billion and growing at
around 9%. 
AMS has a particularly strong proprietary
position with its alginate and silver
technologies and has used this to
continue to develop its silver alginate
business. Driven by concerns over wound
infection, silver has become the
predominant anti-microbial technology,
and alginate the major wound dressing,
for this indication. New partner launches
took place during the first half-year into
the US hospital market, the US home
care market and in a number of European
countries strengthening the Group’s
global presence in this dynamic market
currently estimated at $125 million and
growing at 25%. Due to widespread use
of silver alginate dressings for treatment
of infected wounds, AMS has also
experienced continued growth of its base
alginate product range. With its broad
partner base and global presence, this is
a core part of the AMS business.
Good progress continues to be made in
penetrating the UK NHS advanced
woundcare market with AMS’s direct
ActivHeal® offering. More than 100 NHS
Trusts are now using these products as a
first line therapy for treating routine
wounds, complementing the use of the
Group’s new technologies such as silver
alginate, for treating infected or more
difficult to heal wounds sold through
strategic partners.
The addition of University College London
Hospital (UCLH) NHS Foundation Trust in
August 2007 as a customer is a strong
endorsement of the ActivHeal® product
range and the success AMS is now
achieving with this business model.
Following a review of its woundcare
product formulary, this major London
teaching centre adopted ActivHeal® as a
way to manage costs without
compromising patient care for routine
wounds.
The ActivHeal® product range has been
strengthened during the year with the
launch of new foam and hydrocolloid
products in June and ActivHeal
Aquafiber® in November. The Group
remains confident that it will continue to
penetrate the NHS advanced woundcare
market currently estimated at £110
million. Increased central decision
making and further integration of product
usage between hospitals and their
associated Primary Care Trusts are
positive trends that support timely
selection and adoption of the ActivHeal®
range.
Wound Closure and Sealants
The wound closure and sealants business
grew 41% to £4.1 million as the Group
continued to develop its LiquiBand®
business within Europe and Kimberly-
Clark Health Care launched surgical skin
sealant into the US market in February.
The Group maintained its strong
leadership position in the UK Accident &
Emergency (A&E) arena in the period and
has also focused the efforts of its
European distributors on the A&E market
where the adhesive technology has real
clinical and cosmetic benefits over
alternative wound closure methodologies
such as sutures, staples and adhesive
strips. The Group is developing its
strategy for penetration of the European
Operating Room (OR) market either
through recruitment of specialist OR
distributors or by expanding its direct
sales presence in this area, together with
the development of a range of products
aimed specifically at the OR with strong
clinical support. 
chairman’s statement
stockcode: AMS
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
07 The dominant segment of the $150
million topical tissue adhesive market is
the US and regulatory approval for
entering this market is progressing. The
FDA has now accepted, and is promoting,
the panel recommendation of August
2006 for these products to be
reclassified from a Premarket Approval
(PMA) to the less onerous 510(k)
approval route.
A Federal Notice was posted on 3 July
2007 containing draft Special Controls to
be used for 510(k) clearance, and written
comments from the public were
requested. Subject to the outcome of the
public comments, formal reclassification
allowing 510(k) regulatory approval is
anticipated during 2008. In the
meantime, the Group continues to build
clinical data to support a PMA route in
parallel.
Kimberly-Clark Health Care is continuing
its US roll-out of the new surgical skin
sealant following its initial introduction in
February 2007. The product is now
available in the US, Europe and other
international markets. Initial reaction
from the surgical community to this
innovative product to help prevent
infection of surgical sites is very positive,
both at the institutional and at the
individual surgeon level. The product is
being evaluated in a wide range of
surgical procedures as a means to help
reduce skin flora contamination of the
wound. 
R&D
The Group has continued to build on its
current technology platforms by investing
in a strategically aligned and focused
R&D programme during 2007. Total R&D
spend increased from £1.0 million in
2006 to £1.1 million in 2007
representing 7% of sales. As well as
adding line extensions to the current
advanced woundcare range, new
dressings with improved fluid handling
and wound healing characteristics are
under development. Of particular interest
are materials that inhibit or negate the
effect of enzymes produced by the body
that prevent healing of chronic wounds. 
A number of technologies are under
evaluation, both through internal
development and as licensing and
acquisition candidates, that could lead to
products with superior performance by
modulating enzymic activity and hence
may help to accelerate wound healing.
In wound closure and sealants, as well as
broadening the existing product portfolio
for topical skin closure and protection,
the Group has started to evaluate
technologies that will allow it to enter the
internal adhesives and sealants market
currently estimated at around $600
million. Whilst this is likely to be a
medium to long-term development and
regulatory approval programme, it will
allow the Group to leverage its current
cyanoacrylate adhesives platform and its
expertise in applicator design to enter the
surgical arena as part of continuing to
move to higher value products.
“With a strong start to 2008
and a number of step change
opportunities on the horizon
the outlook is very positive”
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
08
chairman’s statement continued
advanced woundcare

wound closure and sealants
 Board
Steve Bellamy was appointed as non-
executive director in February 2007 and
now chairs the Audit Committee. Steve’s
previous experience and strong City
background is of great value as the Group
continues to evaluate strategic corporate
opportunities to enhance growth. 
Chris Meredith’s role has been broadened
to become Managing Director of the
Advanced Woundcare business segment
in addition to his responsibility as Group
Commercial Director, as part of a
programme to ensure we have the right
management team to enable the Group to
meet its longer term growth targets.
International Accounting Standards
The Group has adopted International
Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for
the first time in 2007. The overall effect
of this has been to improve profit before
tax by £0.3 million (equivalent to EPS of
0.2p) with the main changes arising from
the capitalisation of qualifying R&D
activities.
Outlook
Woundcare is an attractive market with
favourable demographics and an
increasing need for products for the
treatment of both chronic and acute
wounds.
Organic growth is set to continue due to
the dynamic silver market, increasing
penetration into the NHS, the launch of
surgical skin sealant and the ongoing
R&D programme. Additionally, the Group
has exciting step change opportunities on
the horizon such as entry into the US
market with LiquiBand® and through
acquisitions that leverage AMS’
technology and distribution base.
The outlook is very positive. Trading
continues to be strong at the start of
2008 and the Group continues its move
into sustainable profitability.
I would like to thank all AMS employees
for their continued efforts in 2007 in
building a successful medical technology
business and look forward to continuing
working with the team in meeting the
challenges and opportunities ahead.
Dr Geoffrey N Vernon
Chairman
18 April 2008 
chairman’s statement
stockcode: AMS
Advanced Medical Solutions Group plc
Annual Report and Accounts 2007
09
