 Charles Taylor plc
6
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s Statement
Our overall performance has demonstrated 
the resilience of our diversiﬁed business 
model, as the performance of our 
Management Services business and Isle of 
Man life run-off insurance business almost 
entirely offset the reduced earnings from 
our Adjusting Services business.
2012 performance
Professional Services
The Group’s core Professional Services 
businesses – Management, Adjusting and 
Insurance Support Services – continued to 
show positive momentum in terms of 
revenue, which was up 5% on previous 
year at £106.1m (2011: £101.4m). A strong 
performance in Management Services was 
offset by a lower result in Adjusting 
Services. As a result and with the 
continued investment in the Group’s 
capabilities, Professional Services 
operating segment proﬁt was £9.8m, 
down from £11.6m in 2011.
As I explained in our 2011 annual report, 
we moved a number of our business lines 
from Management Services to Insurance 
Support Services at the start of 2012 to 
better reﬂect the way the business is 
structured. Our results for the year are 
reported under this new structure, with the 
previous year’s ﬁgures restated to reﬂect 
the change where necessary.
Management Services: Revenue 
increased to £39.0m (2011: £34.6m) and 
operating segment proﬁt to £7.1m (2011: 
£5.7m). This good result reﬂects a positive 
performance by the business on behalf of 
our mutual insurance company clients, 
combined with a careful focus on 
expenses. We successfully launched new 
products and services, which hold out the 
prospect of future growth.
Adjusting Services: Revenue increased 
slightly to £50.3m (2011: £50.1m) while 
operating segment proﬁt was down to 
£2.7m (2011: £5.8m). The fall in operating 
segment proﬁt was a result of an unusual 
and signiﬁcant market-wide fall in the 
number of larger, more complex insurance 
claims, particularly in energy, combined 
with increased expenditure on new staff 
and ofﬁces. We believe these investments 
will give us a competitive advantage when 
market volumes recover. In fact there were 
“2012 has been a year of 
developments on many fronts for 
Charles Taylor. We have completed 
the ﬁrst full year of implementing our 
business strategy for growth and I am 
pleased to report that we have made 
real progress.” Charles Taylor plc
7
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
Our vision is to become 
the professional services 
provider of choice to the 
global insurance market by:
 Building
a substantially larger Professional 
Services business in sectors where 
superior technical skills matter.
 Achieving
leading market positions for each of our 
businesses and expanding into growing 
economies and markets where we are 
currently underrepresented.
 Establishing
new services and associated revenue 
sources within our existing business 
model.
 Capitalising
on the opportunities for cross referral 
and business synergies between our 
businesses and across our international 
network.
signs of a slight pick-up in activity at the 
end of the year and in the ﬁrst months of 
2013, which give cause for cautious 
optimism.
Insurance Support Services: The 
business performed in line with prior year 
and continued to operate at break-even 
level. Revenue was steady at £16.7m  
(2011: £16.8m) and operating segment 
proﬁt was £0.1m (2011: £0.2m). We have 
taken steps to cut costs and continue to 
make progress in developing the business. 
We remain positive about its prospects.
Insurers in Run-off
The business delivered revenue of £5.4m 
(2011: £3.6m) and an operating segment 
proﬁt of £0.2m (2011: £0.7m loss). This was 
largely a result of the transfer of the Alico 
business, acquired in 2011, into our Isle of 
Man life run-off business. The transfer 
delivered a cash release in excess of the 
initial consideration paid. In line with our 
strategy to acquire offshore life insurers in 
run-off, we completed the acquisition of 
Global Life Assurance Limited in December 
2012. We also expect this business to be 
transferred into our Isle of Man run-off life 
business once Court approval is received 
in 2013. The transfer is expected to 
generate a cash release, but not of the 
magnitude achieved as a result of the 
Alico transfer.
Business strategy
We have made good progress on delivering 
our business strategy, which is set out in 
detail on pages 8 and 9. The strategy, 
introduced in December 2011, is to deliver 
growth in revenue, proﬁt and shareholder 
value by focusing on professional services. 
Our approach is to seek organic growth by 
capitalising on our areas of strength by 
offering related services to our clients, 
building our niche businesses to leadership 
positions, and by realising the signiﬁcant, 
unrealised potential for cross referral and 
joint working across the Group. We are well 
positioned for organic growth and believe 
the demand for the professional services 
we offer is substantial.
We also remain open to the idea of growing 
by entering new business lines or through 
targeted M&A activity. However, any 
initiative of this nature needs to be a good 
ﬁt strategically, culturally and ﬁnancially and 
none reached the high threshold we have 
set ourselves. While our focus is on 
professional services, we also see tactical 
opportunities to acquire UK offshore life 
insurers in run-off that we believe will 
provide near-term cash releases.
Outlook
The market for insurance services remains 
strong. I ﬁrmly believe that our reputation 
for delivering high quality professional 
services with technically excellent 
professional staff from our international 
network of ofﬁces puts us in a good 
position to deliver growth. Our business 
model, with diversiﬁed sources of revenue 
from our three Professional Services 
businesses and Insurers in Run-off, means 
we have the strength to absorb short-term 
volatility in earnings. Alongside our 
initiatives to drive growth, we are 
increasingly focusing on improving our 
operational efﬁciency and are taking action 
to remove costs from our businesses. 
We will continue to implement our 
strategic initiatives throughout 2013 and 
beyond and I remain conﬁdent about the 
Group’s prospects.
David Marock
Group Chief Executive Ofﬁcer
19 March 2013
