 Charles Taylor plc
4
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Chairman’s 
Statement
Results
Revenue increased to £108.2m (2011: 
£102.5m). Group adjusted proﬁt before tax 
was £9.6m (2011: £9.6m), while Group 
statutory proﬁt before tax increased to 
£7.1m (2012: £6.4m). Adjusted earnings per 
share fell slightly to 19.44p (2011: 19.86p). 
Statutory earning per share rose to 16.25p 
(2011: 12.79p).
Our Professional Services businesses 
increased revenue although operating 
segment proﬁt fell. The Management 
Services business performed strongly, 
while the Insurance Support Services 
business showed a performance in line 
with the prior year. The Adjusting Services 
business revenue increased slightly, while 
operating segment proﬁt fell. This was as 
a result of an unusual and signiﬁcant 
market-wide fall in the number of larger, 
more complex insurance claims, 
particularly in energy, combined with 
increased expenditure on new staff and 
ofﬁces. This impacted the overall 
Professional Services business result.
Dividend
It is proposed that a ﬁnal dividend of 6.75p 
per share (2011: 6.75p) be paid on 24 May 
2013 to shareholders on the register on 
12 April 2013. When added to the interim 
dividend of 3.25p per share (2011: 3.25p), 
this results in the total dividend per share 
for the year being maintained at 10.00p 
(2011: 10.00p).
Gearing and cash ﬂow
Our initiative to drive down debt made 
good progress. A continued reduction in 
working capital levels in Adjusting Services 
and cash releases from the Alico life run-off 
business has resulted in net debt reducing 
to £29.5m (2011: £34.0m). This also 
contributed to free cash ﬂow increasing to 
£12.4m (2011: £7.9m).
“In 2012, we continued to make 
steady progress in delivering our strategy 
for growth despite difﬁcult market 
conditions for our Adjusting Services 
business. We also signiﬁcantly reduced 
the Group’s overall level of debt.” Charles Taylor plc
5
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Overview
Board
I am very pleased to welcome Tito Soso to 
the Group and the Board as Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer. Tito joined Charles Taylor 
on 1 October 2012 as interim Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer and was appointed to the 
permanent role on 16 January 2013. Tito 
has already made a positive contribution 
to the ﬁnancial management of the Group.
Julian Avery has informed me that he 
would like to retire from the Board during 
2013, at a date to be determined. Julian 
has been a signiﬁcant contributor as 
a member of the Board and has also 
been a highly effective Chairman of the 
Remuneration Committee. His input and 
advice will be missed.
Corporate governance
The Board remains committed to delivering 
high standards of corporate governance. 
We provide leadership for the Group in 
setting strategy, monitoring performance 
and ensuring that the appropriate 
resources are in place to meet our 
corporate objectives.
I would like to point to several areas which 
the Board chose to emphasise in its work 
during 2012. The Board spent a 
considerable amount of time assessing 
and testing new initiatives within the 
Group’s stated strategy. Through the 
Remuneration Committee, we put in place 
a comprehensive new structure for the 
remuneration of the executive directors. 
We undertook a comprehensive process 
for the selection of our new Group Chief 
Financial Ofﬁcer. Finally, the Board 
considered a small number of larger 
acquisition opportunities in Professional 
Services during the year. None has met 
our  requirements.
Our Board has a broad and diverse range 
of skills and specialised knowledge, which 
enables us to achieve high standards of 
corporate governance, our approach to 
which is set out in full on page 24.
Current trading and outlook
Overall trading for the year has started 
satisfactorily for our Professional Services 
businesses. There are early indications 
of improved performance in Adjusting 
Services. Our Insurers in Run-off business 
is not anticipated to repeat the 
performance it achieved in 2012 when it 
beneﬁted from the Alico transfer. We are 
also taking steps to improve margins by 
reducing operating costs across the Group. 
Our result for the year has been achieved 
through the diligence and commitment of 
our highly professional team. I would like to 
thank all our staff for their hard work and 
commitment to the business throughout 
the year.
Rupert Robson
Chairman
19 March 2013
 Excellence
We recruit, retain, and develop 
highly skilled, technically excellent 
professional staff.
 Partnership
We have a partnership mind-set and 
work closely with our clients to deliver 
mutually beneﬁcial outcomes.
 Quality
We have a genuine pride in delivering 
high quality work. We live by our 
reputation in professional services 
and it is this focus on quality which 
underpins our offering to clients.
 Support
We work within a supportive, collegiate 
culture across the Group.
Our core values
