 Charles Taylor plc
8
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Group Chief Executive 
Officer’s strategic update
Charles Taylor has 
signiﬁcant competitive 
advantages in delivering 
professional services to 
insurers, their clients and 
advisers on a worldwide 
basis. Our Professional 
Services business strategy 
has three elements: 
Reinforce the foundations, 
Create growth in the core 
Professional Services 
businesses and Explore 
medium-term strategic 
options.
In 2012 our work to reinforce the foundations has 
delivered improved leadership structures, more 
effective coordination of marketing and business 
development and improved support for the 
businesses from our shared services teams.
Highlights of 2012
 Implemented improved business planning: We have 
developed and are implementing business plans across 
all our businesses.
 Created Global ICT and HR services teams: We provide 
more effective support services to our worldwide staff.
 Reduced working capital: We have made very good 
progress in improving the speed of invoicing and 
collecting unpaid bills – which is making a positive 
difference to the Group’s overall level of debt.
 Developed a new corporate identity: We now present the 
Group as a single organisation and have capitalised on 
our ability to work across many related insurance 
services.
Reinforce the foundations: 
strengthen the Group’s core 
capabilities and support services 
to underpin growth. Charles Taylor plc
9
Annual Report and Accounts 2012
Business Review
In 2012 we delivered an increase in revenue across the 
business. We introduced many effective initiatives to 
create growth in our core businesses with new 
products and services launched and new ofﬁces 
opened around the world.
Highlights of 2012
 Delivered strong performance for our mutual insurance 
company clients.
 Launched new products for our mutual insurance company 
clients: We launched new Kidnap and Ransom, Traders’ 
Transport Liability and Professional Liability covers for 
members of the Standard Club. We also launched a new 
run-off service for members of Signal Mutual, which has 
started to secure business with more in prospect.
 Opened new adjusting ofﬁces: We made good progress 
opening new ofﬁces where there is demand for our 
adjusting services. We opened our ﬁrst West Coast US 
adjusting ofﬁce in San Francisco and opened new ofﬁces in 
Colombia, to target the Latin American market. 
 Broadened adjusting services: We are now offering more 
adjusting services from our existing ofﬁces. This included 
the creation of a non marine team in Indonesia and the 
establishment of an energy team in the Middle East. 
 Developed new services in our Insurance Support Services 
business: We launched a new Managing General Agency 
(“MGA”) service to support the creation of new MGAs. We 
are also targeting increased live claims management work 
in the London market with the launch of our ‘Taylored 
Claims Management’ service. Both services have been 
received positively in the market.
 Built other new products and services on existing 
capabilities: We launched a European corporate bond fund 
to market investment services outside our core client base 
for the ﬁrst time.
Our Insurers in Run-off  
business strategy
Our primary focus is on building our Professional 
Services business. However, we are also seeking 
tactical acquisition opportunities in the offshore life 
insurance run-off sector while reducing our exposure 
to the non-life insurance run-off sector.
Highlights of 2012
 Integrated Alico acquisition into our Isle of Man life 
company, releasing cash and providing increased 
servicing business.
 Acquired Global Life Assurance Limited which will be 
incorporated into our Isle of Man life company.
 Disbanded our non-life run-off acquisition team in line with 
our decision not to acquire further non-life run-off 
insurance companies.
We remain open to the idea of growing the business 
by entering new business lines or through targeted 
M&A activity. However any initiative of this nature 
needs to be a good ﬁt strategically, culturally and 
ﬁnancially. We considered a number of opportunities 
in the last year, but none cleared the high threshold 
we set. We will continue to look at opportunities as 
they arise, but will only progress those that meet our 
requirements.
Create growth in the core 
Professional Services businesses: 
achieve leadership positions in all the 
Group’s businesses and develop new, 
closely related, insurance services.
Explore medium-term strategic 
options: develop new Professional 
Services business lines through joint 
ventures or M&A opportunities.
